{"id": "31284283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31284283", "title": "1996 Parliament House riot", "text": "1996 Parliament House riot\n\nThe 1996 Parliament House riot (also called the Canberra riot) involved a physical attack on Parliament House, Canberra, Australia, on 19 August 1996, when protesters broke away from the \"Cavalcade to Canberra\" rally organised by the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) and sought to force their way into the national Parliament of Australia, causing property damage and attacking police.\n\nThe Australian Council of Trade Unions called the \"cavalcade to Canberra\" rally to protest against the industrial relations reform agenda of the Liberal-National Coalition Howard Government. The protest began with senior Australian Trade Union officials including ACTU President Jennie George and Assistant Secretary Greg Combet, as well as senior members of the Australian Labor Party rallying demonstrators from a podium.\n\nAccording to then President of the Senate, Margaret Reid, the initially peaceful protest deteriorated into violent action when a new group of demonstrators arrived in the early afternoon and, joined by people from the main protest, attacked the entrance to Parliament. Around 90 personnel were injured —including lacerations, sprains, and head and eye injuries. Damage to the forecourt and foyer of Parliament was initially estimated at $75,000 and the Parliamentary shop was looted. Nine rioters were arrested and charged with a variety of offences.\n\nBefore the 1996 Australian Federal election, ACTU Secretary, Bill Kelty, had threatened 'industrial war' if a Coalition Government tried to challenge union power. Following their 1996 election victory, the Howard Government proposed to balance the Australian federal budget by means of extensive budget cuts, and introduced a draft Workplace Relations Amendment Bill which proposed to curtail 'compulsory unionism' and to introduce a more decentralised bargaining structure to the Australian work place. Both endeavours were opposed by Trade Unionists who organised a campaign of protest to culminate on the eve of the federal budget, 19 August 1996 with a protest rally on the lawns of the Federal Parliament, called the \"Cavalcade to Canberra\".\n\nOn 4 July 1996, the A.C.T. Trades and Labour Council advised the Speaker and President of the Parliament that a rally would be held at Parliament House on Monday, 19 August and requested permission to conduct a march around the Parliament building. The march was approved for between 1.35 p.m. and 2.25 p.m, provided adequated marshalling was organised and that the demonstration did not obstruct access to Parliament. Subsequent discussions were also conducted with the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union and the indigenous representatives and all agreed to these parameters for the demonstration. On the day of 19 August, The protest rally remained peaceful until about 12.20 p.m. at which point a separate group of demonstrators entered the parliamentary precinct. The following day, the President of the Australian Senate outlined to Parliament the events that followed thus:\n\nDuring the course of the riot, unionist Davie Thomason, of the CFMEU, took the podium at the official rally with a bloodied face and spoke while shaking a police riot shield, saying to cheers from other protesters:\n\nAddressing the Senate the following day, Senator Robert Hill, leader of the Government in the Senate, described the event as \"very sad day in the history of the Australian political process\", and his opposition counterpart Senator John Faulkner condemned the \"appalling violence\" on behalf of the opposition. Senator Cheryl Kernot for the Australian Democrats said she \"condemned\" the violence and \"I deplore the actions of those who, in my opinion, selfishly and deliberately chose to distract from discussion of the issues\". Senator Dee Margetts, speaking for the Greens Western Australia said that \"the Greens WA do not associate ourselves with the violent action\" but that \"there are obviously some in the Greens movement who have differing opinions about that\". In the House of Representatives, Opposition Leader Kim Beazley called the rioters \"lunatics\" and \"louts\" who had distracted from a \"peaceful and lawful\" protest, while Prime Minister John Howard described the violence as \"thuggery\" and said that the ACTU should accept some responsibility for the riot:\n\n"}
{"id": "49162176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49162176", "title": "AGCS family", "text": "AGCS family\n\nMembers of the Alanine or Glycine:Cation Symporter (AGCS) Family (TC# 2.A.25) transport alanine and/or glycine in symport with Na and or H.\n\nKnown proteins in the AGCS family are between 445 and 550 amino acyl residues in length and possess 8 to 12 putative transmembrane α-helical spanners. Members may possess 11 transmembrane segments (TMSs), as seems to be true for DagA (TC# 2.A.25.1.1) and AgcS (TC# 2.A.25.1.3), although Acp (TC# 2.A.25.1.2) has only 8 TMSs, perhaps the result of truncation. As of early 2016, there does not appear to be any 3D crystal structure data available for these proteins. Members of the AGCS family have been found in bacteria and archaea, such as extremophile halotolerant cyanobacterium \"Aphanothece halophytica,\" and thermophilic bacteria, \"Bacillus\" \"PS3\". As of 2015, only three members of the family have been functionally characterized. These proteins show limited sequence similarity in the APC family (TC# 2.A.3). As of early 2016, there do not appear to be any crystal structures available for members of the AGCS family.\n\nThe generalized transport reaction catalyzed by the AGCS family is:\n\nalanine or glycine (out) + Na or H (out) → alanine or glycine (in) + Na or H (in).\n\nThere are currently 10 proteins belonging to the AGCS family. These proteins and their descriptions can be found in the Transporter Classification Database.\n\n"}
{"id": "8382046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8382046", "title": "Abraham of Augsburg", "text": "Abraham of Augsburg\n\nAbraham of Augsburg (died 21 November 1265) was a German proselyte to Judaism. He died a martyr's death.\n\nAbraham was born at Augsburg, and he later converted into Judaism at a foreign region.\n\nHe adopted his new faith with such enthusiasm that, returning to Augsburg, he publicly assailed Christianity and attacked images of the saints, namely severing the heads of some crucifix figurines, and also smashing a religious portrait which had been engraved on stone. For all this he was sentenced to torture and death by burning.\n\nReportedly, Abraham's rage ensued in a bitter confrontation between Jewish and Catholics of Sinzig, ensuing in a regional pogrom in which 61 other Jews were slain, together with Abraham. The incident attracted considerable attention, and it forms the subject of elegies by Mordecai ben Hillel (who himself suffered martyrdom in 1298) and by the liturgical poet Moses ben Jacob. The rites of Selichot tell about Abraham.\n\n"}
{"id": "45512441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45512441", "title": "Adachi Ginkō", "text": "Adachi Ginkō\n\nAdachi Ginkō (, born 1853; active  – 1908) was a Japanese artist best known for his prints in the ukiyo-e style as a member of the Utagawa school. He worked in a variety of genres, including portraits of beauties and actors, landscapes, book illustrations, and satirical works, and produced a large number of triptychs of contemporary events. His most successful work was his \"Pictorial Outline of Japanese History\" series of triptychs in the late 1880s. He was jailed and fined in 1889 for caricaturing the Meiji Emperor.\n\nFew details of Ginkō's birth and early life are known; his birth name was Adachi Heishichi. He was born about the second month of Kaei 6 on the Japanese calendar (about March or April 1853).\n\nGinkō studied under the painter , who worked in a Western style. Ginkō may have begun designing ukiyo-e woodblock prints as early as 1870, though these purported prints of the Boshin War have not survived. Ginkō's earliest surviving prints date to 1873—a number of \"yakusha-e\" prints of actors in the style of Toyohara Kunichika. He published his early work under the art name Shōsetsusai Ginkō. He found success with a series of actor prints titled \"Complete Issue of Top Battle Stories\" in 1874. Later that year he began using the art name Adachi Ginkō.\n\nGinkō produced in a variety of genres, including \"bijin-ga\" portraits of beauties, landscapes, book illustrations, and satirical works. A large number of his works dealt with contemporary events such as the Satsuma Rebellion and the First Sino-Japanese War. His most popular work was the series of triptychs \"Pictorial Outline of Japanese History\", published from 1185 to 1889.\n\nThe 28 February 1889 issue of the \"Journal of the Society of Ready Wit\" published a cartoon by Ginkō which parodies his own print \"View of the Issuance of the State Constitution in the State Chamber of the New Imperial Palace\"., which shows Emperor Meiji receiving the Meiji Constitution of 1889. The original, a full-colour triptych, was produced on commission and not distributed until 14 March 1889; prints had to get censor approval before distribution, while books and magazines did not have to be sent to the censors until after they began distribution. The parody replaces the Emperor with a skeleton and is captioned: \"Promulgation Ceremony for the Sharpening of the Ready Wit Law\".. The skeleton was a play on words of the name of magazine's publisher Miyatake Gaikotsu, whose given name is a homophone of the Japanese word \"\".\n\nGinkō was imprisoned for a year and fined 50 yen for the offense. Miyatake was imprisoned for three years, all others involved were also given prison time, and the magazine was made to cease publication. Following his release, Ginkō continued to produce prints, the last known of which appeared in 1908. His date and place of death are unknown. Ginkō also worked under the art names Shinshō Ginkō, ) and Shōsai Ginkō, ), and was a member of the Utagawa school of ukiyo-e artists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15982424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15982424", "title": "Albert Kusnets", "text": "Albert Kusnets\n\nAlbert Eduard Kusnets (12 August 1902 – 1942) was a middleweight Greco-Roman wrestler from Estonia. He competed in the 1924 and 1928 Summer Olympics and placed fourth and third, respectively. He won his 1928 bronze medal despite breaking a leg in 1928 and not competing until the Olympics. He earned three more medals at the European championships in 1927–1933. Kusnets missed the 1932 Olympics, because Estonia could not afford sending a team to Los Angeles during the Great Depression. After retiring in 1933 he worked as wrestling coach, and prepared the Olympic champion Kristjan Palusalu. \n\nIn 1941, he was sent to a Russian labor camp in Arkhangelsk Oblast, where he starved to death the next winter.\n"}
{"id": "3820238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3820238", "title": "Ann Cargill", "text": "Ann Cargill\n\nAnn Cargill (born Ann Brown) (1760 – 4 March 1784) was a British opera diva and celebrated beauty whose life and death were a sensation in London at the close of the 18th century.\n\nBy 1783, she had a new love. Her lover was in the British East India Company and stationed in Calcutta, so she left England for India. In 1783, she performed operatic parts in Calcutta, to tremendous applause, and her benefit night brought in \"the astonishing sum of 12,000 rupees.\"\n\nShe was a passenger on the packet ship \"Nancy\", whose captain, John Haldane, was her lover, when it wrecked and sank off the Isles of Scilly on 4 March 1784. Her body, originally unidentified, was buried on Rosevear then reburied at Old Town Church on St Mary's in the Isles of Scilly. The newspaper accounts of her death and how the body had been found \"floating in her shift\" with an infant at her bosom made her a tragic figure for the English press. In September 2008, British divers claimed to have found the wreck of the \"Nancy\", further out from the Isles of Scilly than was previously thought.\n\n"}
{"id": "7115286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7115286", "title": "Asymmetric cell division", "text": "Asymmetric cell division\n\nAn asymmetric cell division produces two daughter cells with different cellular fates. This is in contrast to symmetric cell divisions which give rise to daughter cells of equivalent fates. Notably, stem cells divide asymmetrically to give rise to two distinct daughter cells: one copy of the original stem cell as well as a second daughter programmed to differentiate into a non-stem cell fate. (In times of growth or regeneration, stem cells can also divide symmetrically, to produce two identical copies of the original cell.)\n\nIn principle, there are two mechanisms by which distinct properties may be conferred on the daughters of a dividing cell. In one, the daughter cells are initially equivalent but a difference is induced by signaling between the cells, from surrounding cells, or from the precursor cell. This mechanism is known as extrinsic asymmetric cell division. In the second mechanism, the prospective daughter cells are inherently different at the time of division of the mother cell. Because this latter mechanism does not depend on interactions of cells with each other or with their environment, it must rely on \"intrinsic\" asymmetry. The term asymmetric cell division usually refers to such intrinsic asymmetric divisions.\n\nIn multi-celled organisms this mechanism raises two requirements: first, the mother cell must be polarized; second, the mitotic spindle must be aligned with the axis of polarity. The cell biology of these events has been most traditionally studied in three animal models: the mouse, the nematode \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" and the fruitfly \"Drosophila melanogaster\". Recent work in spiralian development has also discovered insightful mechanisms of asymmetric cell division.\n\nIn \"C. elegans\", a series of asymmetric cell divisions in the early embryo are critical in setting up the anterior/posterior, dorsal/ventral, and left/right axes of the body plan. After fertilization, events are already occurring in the one cell stage embryo to allow for the first asymmetric cell division. This first division produces two distinctly different blastomeres, termed AB and P1. When the sperm fertilizes the egg, the sperm nucleus and centrosomes are deposited within the egg, which causes a cytoplasmic flux resulting in the movement of the sperm pronucleus and centrosomes towards one pole. The centrosomes deposited by the sperm seem to be responsible for the establishment of the posterior pole within the one cell embryo. Studies have shown that the pole in which the sperm-derived centrosomes reside always becomes the posterior pole. Furthermore, sperm with mutant or absent centrosomes fail to establish a posterior pole, while enucleated sperm with intact centrosomes successfully fertilize the egg and set up the posterior pole. The establishment of this polarity initiates the polarized distribution of a group of proteins present in the zygote called the PAR proteins (partitioning-defective), which are a conserved group of proteins that function in establishing cell polarity during development. These proteins are initially distributed uniformly throughout the zygote and then become polarized with the creation of the posterior pole. This series of events allows the single celled zygote to obtain polarity through an unequal distribution of multiple factors.\n\nThe single cell is now set up to undergo an asymmetric cell division, however the orientation in which the division occurs is also an important factor. The mitotic spindle must be oriented correctly to ensure that the proper cell fate determinants are distributed appropriately to the daughter cells. The alignment of the spindle is mediated by the PAR proteins, which regulate the positioning of the centrosomes along the A/P axis as well as the movement of the mitotic spindle along the A/P axis. Following this first asymmetric division, the AB daughter cell divides symmetrically, giving rise to ABa and ABp, while the P1 daughter cell undergoes another asymmetric cell division to produce P2 and EMS. This division is also dependent on the distribution of the PAR proteins.\n\nIn \"Drosophila melanogaster\", asymmetric cell division plays an important role in neural development. Neuroblasts are the progenitor cells which divide asymmetrically to give rise to another neuroblast and a ganglion mother cell (GMC). The neuroblast repeatedly undergoes this asymmetric cell division while the GMC continues on to produce a pair of neurons. Two proteins play an important role in setting up this asymmetry in the neuroblast, Prospero and Numb. These proteins are both synthesized in the neuroblast and segregate into only the GMC during divisions. Numb is a suppressor of Notch, therefore the asymmetric segregation of Numb to the basal cortex biases the response of the daughter cells to Notch signaling, resulting in two distinct cell fates. Prospero is required for gene regulation in GMCs. It is equally distributed throughout the neuroblast cytoplasm, but becomes localized at the basal cortex when the neuroblast starts to undergo mitosis. Once the GMC buds off from the basal cortex, Prospero becomes translocated into the GMC nucleus to act as a transcription factor.\n\nOther proteins present in the neuroblast mediate the asymmetric localization of Numb and Prospero. Miranda is an anchoring protein that binds to Prospero and keeps it in the basal cortex. Following the generation of the GMC, Miranda releases Prospero and then becomes degraded. The segregation of Numb is mediated by Pon (the partner of Numb protein). Pon binds to Numb and colocalizes with it during neuroblast cell division.\n\nThe mitotic spindle must also align parallel to the asymmetrically distributed cell fate determinants to allow them to become segregated into one daughter cell and not the other. The mitotic spindle orientation is mediated by Inscuteable, which is segregated to the apical cortex of the neuroblast. Without the presence of Inscuteable, the positioning of the mitotic spindle and the cell fate determinants in relationship to each other becomes randomized. Inscuteable mutants display a uniform distribution of Miranda and Numb at the cortex, and the resulting daughter cells display identical neuronal fates.\n\nSpiralia (commonly synonymous with lophotrochozoa) represent a diverse clade of animals whose species comprise the bulk of the bilaterian animals present today. Examples include mollusks, annelid worms, and the entoprocta. Although much is known at the cellular and molecular level about the other bilateralian clades (ecdysozoa and deuterostomia), research into the processes that govern spiralian development is comparatively lacking. However, one unifying feature shared among spiralia is the pattern of cleavage in the early embryo known as spiral cleavage.\n\nMechanisms of asymmetric division (See Figure, right panel):\n\n\nAnimals are made up of a vast number of distinct cell types. During development, the zygote undergoes many cell divisions that give rise to various cell types, including embryonic stem cells. Asymmetric divisions of these embryonic cells gives rise to one cell of the same potency (self-renewal), and another that maybe of the same potency or stimulated to further differentiate into specialized cell types such as neurons. This stimulated differentiation arises from many factors which can be divided into two broad categories: intrinsic and extrinsic. Intrinsic factors generally involve differing amounts of cell-fate determinants being distributed into each daughter cell. Extrinsic factors involve interactions with neighboring cells and the micro and macro environment of the precursor cell.\n\nIn addition to the aforementioned Drosophila neuronal example, it was proposed that the macrosensory organs of the Drosophila, specifically the glial cells, also arise from a similar set of asymmetric division from a single progenitor cell via regulation of the Notch signaling pathway and transcription factors.\nAn example of how extrinsic factors bring about this phenomenon is the physical displacement of one of the daughter cells out of the original stem cell niche, exposing it to signalling molecules such as chondroitin sulfate. In this manner, the daughter cell is forced to interact with the heavily sulfated molecules, which stimulate it to differentiate while the other daughter cell remains in the original niche in a quiescent state.\n\nIn normal stem and progenitor cells, asymmetric cell division balances proliferation and self-renewal with cell-cycle exit and differentiation. Disruption of asymmetric cell division leads to aberrant self-renewal and impairs differentiation, and could therefore constitute an early step in the tumorogenic transformation of stem and progenitor cells. In normal non-tumor stem cells, a number of genes have been described which are responsible for pluripotency, such as Bmi-1, Wnt and Notch. These genes have been discovered also in the case of cancer stem cells, and shows that their aberrant expression is essential for the formation of tumor cell mass. For example, it has been shown that gastrointestinal cancers contain rare subpopulation of cancer stem cells which are capable to divide asymmetrically. The asymmetric division in these cells is regulated by cancer niche (microenvironment) and Wnt pathway. Blocking the Wnt pathway with IWP2 (WNT antagonist) or siRNA-TCF4 resulted in high suppression of asymmetric cell division.\n\nAnother mutation in asymmetric cell divisions which are involved in tumor growth are loss-of-function mutations. The first suggestion that loss of asymmetric cell division might be involved in tumorigenesis came from studies of Drosophila. Studies of loss-of-function mutations in key regulators of asymmetric cell division including lgl, aurA, polo, numb and brat, revealed hyperproliferative phenotypes in situ. In these mutants cells divide more symmetrically and generate mis-specified progeny that fail to exit the cell cycle and differentiate, but rather proliferate continuously and form a tumor cell mass.\n\n"}
{"id": "6680203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6680203", "title": "Brian Magee", "text": "Brian Magee\n\nBrian Magee (born 9 June 1975) is a Northern Irish former professional boxer who competed from 1999 to 2012. He held multiple championships at super-middleweight, including the WBA (Regular), IBO, European, and British titles, as well as having challenged for the British light-heavyweight title. As an amateur he represented Ireland at the 1996 Olympics, reaching the middleweight quarter-finals. He also won a silver medal at the 1998 European Championships and bronze at the 1998 Commonwealth Games, representing Northern Ireland in the latter.\n\nAs an amateur Magee fought out of the Holy Trinity Boxing Club in Belfast, and won the Ulster senior title every year from 1995 to 1998.\n\nMagee represented Ireland at the 1996 Summer Olympics.\n\n\nMagee won a bronze medal for Northern Ireland at the 1998 Commonwealth Games and silver medal for Ireland at the 1998 European Championships in Minsk, Belarus.\n\nMagee turned professional in March 1999, and fought Dean Ashton at the Bowler's Arena, Manchester, England on the undercard of a bill that included Damaen Kelly, Michael Brodie and Clinton Woods. Magee won his opener knocking out the Stoke man inside two rounds.\n\nHe won the vacant IBO Intercontinental super middleweight title in January 2001 by defeating Neil Linford from England. He then won the IBO world super middleweight title and defended it successfully eight times. He was then defeated in his attempt for the European title. In December 2008 he beat undefeated Scottish Stevie Maguire to win the British super middleweight title, and, after a 13-month break, returned to defeat Mads Larsen in a seven-round knockout in Aarhus, becoming European champion for the first time.\n\nOn 11 September 2010 Brian Magee defended his European Title against Armenia's Roman Aramian with the Armenian not starting the ninth round. Magee challenged IBF Super-Middleweight champion Lucian Bute in Canada on 19 March 2011.\nHe lost the fight to Lucian Bute by TKO in the tenth round.\n\nOn 30 July 2011 Magee captured the interim WBA super-middleweight title with a unanimous points win over Jaime Barboza in San Jose, Costa Rica.\n\nOn 8 December 2012. Brian Magee travelled to Denmark to face \"The Viking Warrior\" Mikkel Kessler in his home nation with the WBA Super Middleweight Title at stake. After a quiet 1st round, Magee went to the floor twice in the 2nd after Kessler landed some hard bodyshots. After 24 seconds on the third round it was allover, Kessler landed a hard bodyshot again; Magee never recovered and Kessler became World Champion for the fifth time.\n\n"}
{"id": "28195510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28195510", "title": "Charles Armstrong (Northern Ireland)", "text": "Charles Armstrong (Northern Ireland)\n\nCharles Armstrong was a 55-year-old labourer from Crossmaglen who disappeared on 16 August 1981. \n\nAccording to a journalist, he was abducted and killed by the Provisional IRA, a victim of enforced disappearance, the reason for which is unclear. Armstrong and his wife Kathleen had five children. Armstrong's body was retrieved in 2010 and his funeral took place on 18 September 2010.\n\nOn the day Armstrong disappeared, his wife walked with their daughters to Mass, where they had planned to meet him after he drove a friend to it. He did not appear and it was only when they got home that they discovered that he had not met their friend. Initially, it was thought that he had had an accident, so his family and friends searched the area, but there was no sign of him. The next day, a friend phoned the family to tell them that his car had been found outside a cinema in Dundalk.\n\nHis name did not appear on a list of nine people whose disappearances the Provisional IRA admitted responsibility for in 1999. Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Féin, denied that the IRA was responsible, but journalist Suzanne Breen said that she had been contacted by a member of the IRA who said that it was.\n\nIn 2001 a search for his body produced no results. In July 2010, a group searching for Armstrong announced that they had found human remains in County Monaghan. The Independent Commission for the Location of Victims' Remains said that it had found the remains early on the afternoon of 29 July 2010 in the townland of Aughrim More, on the County Monaghan side of Cullaville. \nThis search was carried out after the Commission had received anonymously a map indicating an area which had not been searched before for Armstrong's body. In September 2010, the Independent Commission confirmed that the remains found were those of Charles Armstrong.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2419312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2419312", "title": "Choking game", "text": "Choking game\n\nThe choking game (also known as the fainting game and a wide variety of slang terms) refers to intentionally cutting off oxygen to the brain with the goal of inducing temporary loss of consciousness and euphoria.\n\nLimited research has been conducted regarding motivations for practicing the fainting game, although thrill-seeking has been identified as a risk factor, as has the perception that it is a low-risk activity. Anecdotal reasons stated include:\n\n\nReasons for practice are distinct from erotic asphyxiation. Steve Field, chairman of the Royal College of General Practitioners in London, claims that the fainting game is pursued primarily by children and teens \"to get a high without taking drugs.\" Children \"aren't playing this game for sexual gratification.\" It is frequently confused with erotic asphyxiation, which is oxygen deprivation for sexual arousal. Unlike erotic asphyxiation, practice of the fainting game appears to be uncommon in adulthood.\n\nThere are two main mechanisms behind many variations of this practice, both resulting in cerebral hypoxia (oxygen deprivation to the brain). The two mechanisms tend to be confused with each other or treated as one but are quite dissimilar although both have the potential to cause permanent brain damage or death. The two mechanisms are \"strangulation\" and \"self-induced hypocapnia\" and work as follows:\n\nA ligature such as a belt or rope around the neck, or hands or arm pressure on the neck compresses the internal carotid artery. Apart from the direct restriction of blood to the brain there are two other significant responses produced by pressing on the neck:\n\nThis method is responsible for most, but not all, of the reported fatalities.\n\nThe method is especially dangerous when practiced alone. Involuntary movements can lead to head trauma and other injuries. If standing, loss of consciousness can result in substantial head trauma through falling. In the event that consciousness is not immediately regained, medical help cannot be sought by a third party, observer, or friend. If the administration of CPR or basic life support is needed due to respiratory or cardiac arrest, help would not be available or quickly summonable when unconscious or not breathing. Also this act could be mistaken for suicide when practiced alone, but accidentally observed by a stranger, to whom the motivation behind the apparent 'strangulation' is not known.\n\nThe second mechanism requires hyperventilation (forced overbreathing) until symptoms of hypocapnia such as tingling, light-headedness or dizziness are felt, followed by a breath-hold. This alone is enough to cause a blackout, but it is widely believed that the effect is enhanced if lung air pressure is increased by holding the breath \"hard\" or \"bearing down\" (tightening the diaphragm as in a forced exhalation while allowing no air to escape or having an assistant apply a bear-hug). These latter actions may augment the effects of hypoxia by approximating the Valsalva maneuver, causing vagal stimulation.\n\nThe hyperventilation leads to an excessive elimination of carbon dioxide (CO) whereas no significant additional amounts of oxygen can be stocked in the body. As only carbon dioxide is responsible for the breathing stimulus, after hyperventilation, breath can be held longer until cerebral hypoxia occurs. The blood also becomes abnormally alkaline as a result of the excessive elimination of carbon dioxide; this subsequent rise in blood pH is termed alkalosis. Alkalosis interferes with normal oxygen utilization by the brain. The symptoms of alkalosis are neuromuscular irritability, muscular spasms, tingling and numbness of the extremities and around the mouth, and a dizziness, or giddiness, often interpreted as a sense of euphoria.\n\nIn the body alkalosis generally induces vasodilation (widening of the blood vessels) but in the brain alone it causes vasoconstriction (narrowing of the blood vessels). This vasoconstriction appears to be made even worse by a sudden increase in blood pressure caused by squeezing or holding the breath \"hard\". The alkalosis-induced euphoria can be followed rapidly by hypoxia-induced unconsciousness. The sequence of events leading to unconsciousness from hyperventilation is as follows:\n\nBecause the brain cannot store reserves of oxygen and, unlike other organs, has an exceedingly low tolerance of oxygen deprivation, it is highly vulnerable if vasoconstriction is not reversed. Normally, if the brain is hypoxic, autonomous systems in the body divert blood to the brain at the expense of other organs; because the brain is vasoconstricted this mechanism is not available. Vasoconstriction is only reversed by the build-up of carbon dioxide in the blood through suspension of breathing.\n\nIn some versions the bear-hug is replaced by pressure on the neck in which case blackout is a hybrid of strangulation and self-induced hypocapnia.\n\nUnconsciousness may be induced by other methods although these are controversial: pressure over the carotid sinus may induce syncope (fainting) without any other action at all but this is difficult to reproduce and is not the basis of the game. For those susceptible to carotid sinus syncope, of which most people would be unaware until it occurred, this can be an exceedingly dangerous game.\n\nIn both \"strangulation\" and \"self-induced hypocapnia\" blackouts the victim may experience dreaming or hallucinations, though fleetingly, and regains consciousness with short-term memory loss and involuntary movement of their hands or feet. Full recovery is usually made within seconds if the strangulation stops.\n\nA 2008 Centre for Addiction and Mental Health study found that at least 79,000 students in the Canadian province of Ontario participated in this act. The 2006 Youth Health Risk Behavioral Survey in Williams County, Ohio found that 11% of youths aged 12–18 years and 19% of youths aged 17–18 reported ever having practiced it.\n\nAny activity that deprives the brain of oxygen has the potential to cause moderate to severe brain cell death leading to permanent loss of neurological function ranging from difficulty in concentration or loss of short term memory capacity through severe, lifelong mental disability to death. Statistics on fatalities and neurological damage are controversial; no definitive, empirical study exists although the indications are that the practice is a significant contributor to death and disability, particularly among male juveniles in most developed countries. Many believe that deaths are significantly underreported because of false attributions to suicide.\n\nOne study by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found sufficient evidence to indicate that since 1995 at least 82 youths between the age of 6 and 19 have died in the United States as a result of the game (being roughly 1% of the deaths attributed to suicide by suffocation in the same age group), see chart on the right. Of these 86.6% were male, the mean age being 13.3. 95.7% of these deaths occurred while the youth was alone; parents of the decedents were unaware of the game in 92.9% of cases. Deaths were recorded in 31 states and were not clustered by location, season or day of week. Neurological damage is harder to attribute accurately because of the difficulty of linking generalised, acquired neurological disability to a specific past event.\n\nIncidental, or indirect, injuries may arise from falling or uncontrolled movements and crushing by a ligature or an assistant. Such injuries may include concussion, bone fractures, tongue biting and hemorrhaging of the eyes.\n\nThe CDC encourages parents, educators and health-care providers to familiarize themselves with the signs of the game. These include discussion of the game, bloodshot eyes, marks on the neck, severe headaches, disorientation after spending time alone, ropes, scarves, and belts tied to bedroom furniture or doorknobs or found knotted on the floor, and unexplained presence of things like dog leashes, choke collars and bungee cords.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34413019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34413019", "title": "Document mosaicing", "text": "Document mosaicing\n\nDocument mosaicing is a process that stitches multiple, overlapping snapshot images of a document together in order to produce one large, high resolution composite. The document is slid under a stationary, over-the-desk camera by hand until all parts of the document are snapshotted by the camera’s field of view. As the document slid under the camera, all motion of the document is coarsely tracked by the vision system. The document is periodically snapshotted such that the successive snapshots are overlap by about 50%. The system then finds the overlapped pairs and stitches them together repeatedly until all pairs are stitched together as one piece of document.\n\nThe document mosaicing can be divided into four main processes.\n\nIn this process, the motion of the document slid under the camera is coarsely tracked by the system. Tracking is performed by a process called simple correlation process. In the first frame of snapshots, a small patch is extracted from the center of the image \nas a correlation template as shown in Figure 1. The correlation process is performed in the four times size of the patch area of the next frame. The motion of the paper is indicated by the peak in the correlation function. The peak in the correlation function indicates the motion of the paper. The template is resampled from this frame and the tracking continues until the template reaches the edge of the document. After the template reaches the edge of the document, another snapshot is taken and the tracking process performs repeatedly until the whole document is imaged. The snapshots are stored in an ordered list in order to pair the overlapped images in later processes.s\n\nFeature detection is the process of finding the transformation which aligns one image with another. There are two main approaches for feature detection.\n\nEach image is segmented into a hierarchy of columns, lines and words in order to match with the organised sets of features across images. Skew angle estimation and columns, lines and words finding are the examples of feature detection operations.\n\nFirstly, the angle that the rows of text make with the image raster lines (skew angle) is estimated. It is assumed to lie in the range of ±20°. A small patch of text in the image is selected randomly and then rotated in the range of ±20° until the variance of the pixel intensities of the patch summed along the raster lines is maximised. See Figure 2.\n\nIn order to ensure that the found skew angle is accurate, the document mosaic system performs calculation at many image patches and derive the final estimation by finding the average of the individual angles weighted by the variance of the pixel intensities of each patch.\n\nIn this operation, the de-skewed document is intuitively segmented into a hierarchy of columns, lines and words. The sensitivity to illumination and page coloration of the de-skewed document can be removed by applying a Sobel operator to the de-skewed image and thresholding the output to obtain the binary gradient, de-skewed image. See Figure 3.\n\nThe operation can be roughly separated into 3 steps : column segmentation, line segmentation and word segmentation.\n\n\nThese segmentations are important because the document mosaic will be created by matching the lower right corners of words in overlapping images pair. Moreover, the segmentation operation can organize the list of images in the context of a hierarchy of rows and column reliably.\n\nThe segmentation operation involves a considerable amount of summing in the binary gradient, de-skewed images, which done by construct a matrix of partial sums whose elements are given by\n\nformula_1\nThe matrix of partial sums is calculated in one pass through the binary gradient, de-skewed image.\n\nformula_2\n\nThe two images are now organized in hierarchy of linked lists in following structure :\n\nAt the bottom of the structure, the length of each word is recorded for establishing correspondence between two images in order to reduce to search only the corresponding structures for the groups of words with the matching lengths.\n\nA seed match finding is done by comparing each row in image1 with each row in image2. The two rows are then compared to each other by every word. If the length (in pixel) of the two words (one from image1 and one from image2) and their immediate neighbours agree with each other within a predefined tolerance threshold (5 pixels, for example), then they are assumed to be matched. The row of each image is assumed to be matched if there are three or more word matches between the two rows. The seed match finding operation is terminated when two pairs of consecutive row match are found.\n\nAfter finishing a seed match finding operation, the next process is to build the match list to generate the correspondences points of the two images. The process is done by searching the matching pairs of rows away from the seed row.\n\nGiven the list of corresponding points of the two images, finding the transformation of the overlapping portion of the images is next process to be performed. Assuming a pinhole camera model, the transformation between pixels (u,v) of image 1 and pixels (u0, v0) of image 2 is demonstrated by a plane-to-plane projectivity.\n\nformula_3\n\nThe parameters of the projectivity is found from four pairs of matching points. RANSAC regression technique is used to reject outlying matches and estimate the projectivity from the remaining good matches.\n\nThe projectivity is fine-tuned using correlation at the corners of the overlapping portion in order to obtain four correspondences to sub-pixel accuracy. Therefore, image1 is then transformed into image2’s coordinate system using Eq.1. The typical result of the process is shown in Figure 5.\n\nFinally, the whole page composition is built up by mapping all the images into the coordinate system of an “anchor” image, which is normally the one nearest the page center. The transformations to the anchor frame are calculated by concatenating the pair-wise transformations which found earlier. The raw document mosaic is shown in Figure 6.\n\nHowever, there might be a problem of non-consecutive images that are overlap. This problem can be solved by performing Hierarchical sub-mosaics. As shown in Figure 7, image1 and image2 are registered, as are image3 and image4, creating two sub-mosaics. These two sub-mosaics are later stitched together in another mosaicing process.\n\nThere are various areas that the technique of document mosaicing can be applied to such as : \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48429222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48429222", "title": "Domestic terrorism", "text": "Domestic terrorism\n\nDomestic terrorism or homegrown terrorism is terrorism targeting victims \"within a country by a perpetrator with the same citizenship\" as the victims. There are many definitions of terrorism, and no universally accepted definition. The United States Department of State defined terrorism in 2003 as \"premeditated, politically motivated violence perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational groups or clandestine agents, usually intended to influence an audience.\"\n\nWhile there are many potential definitions of domestic terrorism, it is largely defined as terrorism in which the perpetrator targets his/her own country. Enders defines domestic terrorism as “homegrown in which the venue, target, and perpetrators are all from the same country. The term “homegrown terrorism” stems from jihadi terrorism against Westerners. Wilner and Dobouloz described homegrown terrorism as \"autonomously organized radicalized Westerners with little direct assistance from transnational networks, usually organized within the home or host country, and targets fellow nationals.\" \nThe Congressional Research Service report, \"American Jihadist Terrorism: Combatting a Complex Threat,\" describes homegrown terrorism as a “terrorist activity or plots perpetuated within the United States or abroad by American citizens, permanent legal residents, or visitors radicalized largely within the United States.”\n\nUnder the 2001 USA Patriot Act, domestic terrorism is defined as \"activities that (A) involve acts dangerous to human life that are a violation of the criminal laws of the U.S. or of any state; (B) appear to be intended (i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population; (ii) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or (iii) to affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, or kidnapping; and (C) occur primarily within the territorial jurisdiction of the U.S.\"\n\nHomegrown terrorism is not new to the world. Security analysts have argued that after the end of the Cold War, military conflicts have increasingly involved violent non-state actors carrying out asymmetric warfare, of which terror attacks are one part. The United States has uncovered a number of alleged terrorist plots that have been successfully suppressed through domestic intelligence and law enforcement. The United States has begun to account for the threat of homegrown terrorism, as shown by increased volume of literature on the subject in recent years and increased number of terrorist websites since Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the leader of al-Qaeda in Iraq, began posting beheading videos in 2003. A July 2009 document by the FBI estimated that there were roughly 15,000 websites and web forums that support terrorist activities, with around 10,000 of them actively maintained. 80% of these sites are on U.S.-based servers.\n\nAccording to the Congressional Research Service’s study, \"American Jihadist Terrorism: Combatting a Complex Threat,\" between May 2009 and November 2010, law enforcement made arrests related to 22 homegrown jihadist-inspired terror plots by American citizens or legal residents of the U.S. This is a significant increase over the 21 plots caught in the seven interim years after the September 11 attacks. During these seven years, two plots resulted in attacks, compared to the two attacks between May 2009 and November 2010, which resulted in 14 deaths. This spike post-May 2009 shows that some Americans are susceptible to ideologies that support a violent form of jihad.\n\nRoughly one-quarter of these plots have been linked to major international terrorist groups but an increasing number of Americans are holding high-level operational roles in these terrorist groups, especially al-Qaeda and its affiliated groups. The former CIA Director Michael Hayden called homegrown terrorism the more serious threat faced by American citizens today. The UK, likewise, considers homegrown terrorism to be a considerable threat. On June 6, 2011, Prime Minister David Cameron announced a wide-ranging strategy to prevent British citizens from being radicalized into becoming terrorists while at university. The strategy is intended to prevent extremist speakers or groups from coming to universities.\n\nDomestic terrorism is often linked to \"lone wolf\" terrorism. Sociologist Ramón Spaaij defines lone wolf terrorism as an act of terrorism committed by one person who \"acts on his or her own without orders from—or even connections to an organization\". During the late 20th to early 21st century lone wolf terrorism in the United States has been primarily associated with white supremacy, Islamic fundamentalism, anti-social, and anti-government extremists in the United States such as Charles Whitman, Tim McVeigh, Dylann Roof, Ted Kaczynski, Eric Rudolph, Eric Harris, Dylan Klebold, James Holmes, Omar Mateen, and Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Many lone wolves share a common trait in that they seek acceptance from other groups but are typically met with rejection.\n\nIn their 2007 book \"Hunting the American Terrorist\" former FBI Deputy Assistant Director Terry Turchie and former FBI special agent Kathleen Puckett described six criteria to define a lone wolf: \n\nThere is no one path toward violence. Homegrown terrorists have been high school dropouts, college graduates, members of the military, and cover the range of financial situations. Recent research by Matt Qvortrup in the British \"Journal of Politics and International Relations\" has suggested that domestic terrorism is a result of lack of opportunities for meaningful political engagement. Some domestic terrorists studied overseas and were exposed to radical Islamist thought, while others took their inspiration from the internet.\n\nMarc Sageman writes in his book, \"Leaderless Jihad: Terror Networks in the Twenty-First Century\" that, contrary to popular belief, radicalization into terrorism is not the product of poverty, various forms of brainwashing, youth, ignorance, lack of education, lack of employment, lack of social responsibility, criminality, or mental illness. He says that intermediaries and English-speaking imams, such as the late Yemeni-American cleric Anwar al-Awlaki (d. 2011), who are often found through the internet on forums, provide key roles in the radicalization process. Social networks provided in forums support and build upon an individual’s radical beliefs. Prison systems are also a concern as a place of radicalization and jihadist recruiting; nearly three dozen ex-convicts who attended training camps in Yemen were believed to have been radicalized in prison. The only constant appears to be \"a newfound hatred for their native or adopted country, a degree of dangerous malleability, and a religious fervor justifying or legitimizing violence that impels these very impressionable and perhaps easily influenced individuals toward potentially lethal acts of violence,\" according to Peter Bergen and Bruce Hoffman's September 2010 paper for the Bipartisan Policy Center.\n\nTraining for potential homegrown terrorists is often very fast paced, or rushed, as some groups under attack by U.S. forces may feel the need to implement operations “more precipitously than they might otherwise occur,” according to Bruce Hoffman. This was the case with the failed Times Square plot carried out by Faisal Shazad. Pakistani Taliban (TPP) was on record as providing financing and four months of training for Shazad directly prior to his actions in Times Square. Shazad reportedly received only three to five days of training in bomb-making.\n\nSome individuals go abroad to a region containing extremism, predominantly Pakistan, but also Iraq, Afghanistan,Yemen or Somalia. In the case of the London Underground bombers, Mohammad Sidique Khan, the operational leader of the cell, received military and explosives training at a camp in Malakand, Pakistan in July 2003. Later he took Shezad Tanweer to Karachi, Pakistan, in late 2004 to February 2005 where they crossed the border to receive training at al-Qaeda camps in Afghanistan.\n\nTraining and usage of recruits is varied. Some, such as Shahzad, received little training and ultimately failed in their goals. Others, like the sleeper agent David Headley’s reconnaissance efforts, were essential towards Lashkar-e-Toiba’s (LeT) success in the November 2008 Mumbai attacks.\n\nScholars say that some lone wolves may achieve objectives, but the vast majority of individual operators fail to execute their plans because of lack of training and planning. There is also a question as to whether such individuals are radical, or suffering other problems. The American convert, Abdulhakim Muhammad (née Carlos Bledsoe), who killed a U.S. military recruiter in Little Rock, Arkansas, and wounded another, had many other targets and plans, which went awry. It was not until some time after his arrest that he first claimed to have been working for Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). But, investigators found no evidence of this. The lead county prosecutor said that, aside from Muhammad's self-serving statements, it was \"just an awful killing\", like others he had seen. Bledsoe's father described his son as \"unable to process reality.\" He was charged with capital murder and related charges, not terrorism, and pleaded guilty.\n\nThe American Nidal Hasan, the US Army major and psychiatrist charged in the 2009 Fort Hood shooting, had come to the attention of colleagues and superiors years before the shootings; they documented their concerns about his mental state. The Department of Defense has classified the event as \"workplace violence\" rather than terrorism, pending Hasan's court martial. Some observers believe that his personal characteristics are more like those of other mass murderers than terrorists; he did not belong to any group.\n\nThe Somalian Al-Shabab (“the youth”) have recruited strongly in Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota. The 30+ Somali-Americans received training by senior al-Qaeda leaders in Somalia. Hoffman believes this indicates that radicalization and recruitment is not an isolated, lone-wolf phenomenon unique to Somali-Americans, but that there is terrorist recruitment infrastructure in the United States. After more than a dozen of 20 American recruits were killed in fighting in Somalia, the number of Americans going to join Al-Shabab has declined since 2007-2008.\n\n“The Internet is a driver and enabler for the process of radicalization”, says a report of the Police Department of the City of New York of 2007. The internet has a wide appeal as it provides an anonymous way for like-minded, conflicted individuals to meet, form virtual relations, and discuss the radical and extremist ideology they encounter. The virtual network created in message boards or private forums further radicalizes and cements the jihadi-Salafi/racial supremacist message individuals have encountered as they build a community.\nThe internet acts as an enabler, providing the aspiring jihadist/supremacist with a forum in which they may plan, share information on targets, weapons, and recruit others into their plans. Much of the resources needed to make weapons can be found on-line.\n\n\"Inspire\" is an online English-language propaganda magazine published by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). Purported to be created by Samir Khan, a U.S. citizen and cyber-jihadist, the magazine uses American idioms and phrasing and does not appear to have British or South Asian influences in its language.\n\nThe magazine contains messages calling for western jihadists, like this one from AQAP leader Nasir al-Wahayshi, \"to acquire weapons and learn methods of war. They are living in a place where they can cause great harm to the enemy and where they can support the Messenger of Allah... The means of harming them are many so seek assistance from Allah and do not be weak and you will find a way.”\n\nSTRATFOR suggests that the magazine is meant to \"fan the flames of Jihad.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA non-exhaustive list of examples of U.S. attacks that have been referred to as domestic terrorism:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "378645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378645", "title": "Endotherm", "text": "Endotherm\n\nAn endotherm (from Greek ἔνδον \"endon\" \"within\" and θέρμη \"thermē\" \"heat\") is an organism that maintains its body at a metabolically favorable temperature, largely by the use of heat set free by its internal bodily functions instead of relying almost purely on ambient heat. Such internally generated heat is mainly an incidental product of the animal's routine metabolism, but under conditions of excessive cold or low activity an endotherm might apply special mechanisms adapted specifically to heat production. Examples include special-function muscular exertion such as shivering, and uncoupled oxidative metabolism such as within brown adipose tissue.\nOnly birds and mammals are extant universally endothermic groups of animals. Certain lamnid sharks, tuna and billfishes are also endothermic.\n\nIn common parlance, endotherms are characterized as \"warm-blooded\". The opposite of endothermy is ectothermy, although in general, there is no absolute or clear separation between the nature of endotherms and ectotherms.\n\nMany endotherms have a larger number of mitochondria per cell than ectotherms. This enables them to generate heat by increasing the rate at which they metabolize fats and sugars. Accordingly, to sustain their higher metabolism, endothermic animals typically require several times as much food as ectothermic animals do, and usually require a more sustained supply of metabolic fuel.\n\nIn many endothermic animals, a controlled temporary state of hypothermia conserves energy by permitting the body temperature to drop nearly to ambient levels. Such states may be brief, regular circadian cycles called torpor, or they might occur in much longer, even seasonal, cycles called hibernation. The body temperatures of many small birds (e.g. hummingbirds) and small mammals (e.g. tenrecs) fall dramatically during daily inactivity, such as nightly in diurnal animals or during the day in nocturnal animals, thus reducing the energy cost of maintaining body temperature. Less drastic intermittent reduction in body temperature also occurs in other, larger endotherms; for example human metabolism also slows down during sleep, causing a drop in core temperature, commonly of the order of 1 degree Celsius. There may be other variations in temperature, usually smaller, either endogenous or in response to external circumstances or vigorous exertion, and either an increase or a drop.\n\nThe resting human body generates about two-thirds of its heat through metabolism in internal organs in the thorax and abdomen, as well as in the brain. The brain generates about 16% of the total heat produced by the body.\n\nHeat loss is a major threat to smaller creatures, as they have a larger ratio of surface area to volume. Small warm-blooded animals have insulation in the form of fur or feathers. Aquatic warm-blooded animals, such as seals, generally have deep layers of blubber under the skin and any pelage that they might have; both contribute to their insulation. Penguins have both feathers and blubber. Penguin feathers are scale-like and serve both for insulation and for streamlining. Endotherms that live in very cold circumstances or conditions predisposing to heat loss, such as polar waters, tend to have specialised structures of blood vessels in their extremities that act as heat exchangers. The veins are adjacent to the arteries full of warm blood. Some of the arterial heat is conducted to the cold blood and recycled back into the trunk. Birds, especially waders, often have very well-developed heat exchange mechanisms in their legs—those in the legs of emperor penguins are part of the adaptations that enable them to spend months on Antarctic winter ice. In response to cold many warm-blooded animals also reduce blood flow to the skin by vasoconstriction to reduce heat loss. As a result, they blanch (become paler).\n\nIn equatorial climates and during temperate summers, overheating (hyperthermia) is as great a threat as cold. In hot conditions, many warm-blooded animals increase heat loss by panting, which cools the animal by increasing water evaporation in the breath, and/or flushing, increasing the blood flow to the skin so the heat will radiate into the environment. Hairless and short-haired mammals, including humans, also sweat, since the evaporation of the water in sweat removes heat. Elephants keep cool by using their huge ears like radiators in automobiles. Their ears are thin and the blood vessels are close to the skin, and flapping their ears to increase the airflow over them causes the blood to cool, which reduces their core body temperature when the blood moves through the rest of the circulatory system.\n\nThe major advantage of endothermy over ectothermy is decreased vulnerability to fluctuations in external temperature. Regardless of location (and hence external temperature), endothermy maintains a constant core temperature for optimum enzyme activity.\n\nEndotherms control body temperature by internal homeostatic mechanisms. In mammals, two separate homeostatic mechanisms are involved in thermoregulation—one mechanism increases body temperature, while the other decreases it. The presence of two separate mechanisms provides a very high degree of control. This is important because the core temperature of mammals can be controlled to be as close as possible to the optimum temperature for enzyme activity.\n\nThe overall rate of an animal's metabolism increases by a factor of about two for every rise in temperature, limited by the need to avoid hyperthermia. Endothermy does not provide greater speed in movement than ectothermy (cold-bloodedness)—ectothermic animals can move as fast as warm-blooded animals of the same size and build when the ectotherm is near or at its optimum temperature, but often cannot maintain high metabolic activity for as long as endotherms. Endothermic/homeothermic animals can be optimally active at more times during the diurnal cycle in places of sharp temperature variations between day and night and during more of the year in places of great seasonal differences of temperature. This is accompanied by the need to expend more energy to maintain the constant internal temperature and a greater food requirement. Endothermy may be important during reproduction, for example, in expanding the thermal range over which a species can reproduce, as embryos are generally intolerant of thermal fluctuations that are easily tolerated by adults. Endothermy may also provide a protection against fungal infection. While tens of thousands of fungal species infect insects, only a few hundred target mammals, and often only those with a compromised immune system. A recent study\nsuggests fungi are fundamentally ill-equipped to thrive at mammalian temperatures. The high temperatures afforded by endothermy might have provided an evolutionary advantage.\n\nEctotherms will increase their body temperature mostly through external heat sources such as sunlight energy, therefore they depend on the occurring environmental conditions to reach operational body temperatures. Endothermic animals mostly use internal heat production through metabolic active organs and tissues (liver, kidney, heart, brain, muscle) or specialized heat producing tissues like brown adipose tissue (BAT). In general, endotherms therefore have higher metabolic rates than ectotherms at a given body mass. As a consequence they would also need higher food intake rates, which may limit abundance of endotherms more than ectotherms.\n\nBecause ectotherms depend on environmental conditions for body temperature regulation, they typically are more sluggish at night and in the morning when they emerge from their shelters to heat up in the first sunlight. Foraging activity is therefore restricted to the day time (diurnal activity patterns) in most vertebrate ectotherms. In lizards, for instance, only a few species are known to be nocturnal (e.g. many geckos) and they mostly use 'sit and wait' foraging strategies that may not require body temperatures as high as those necessary for active foraging. Endothermic vertebrate species are therefore less dependent on the environmental conditions and have developed a high variability (both within and between species) in their diurnal activity patterns.\n\nIt is thought that the evolution of endothermia was crucial in the development of eutherian mammalian species diversity in the Mesozoic period. Endothermia gave the early mammals the capacity to be active during night time while maintaining small body sizes. Adaptations in photoreception and the loss of UV protection characterizing modern eutherian mammals are understood as adaptations for an originally nocturnal lifestyle, suggesting that the group went through an evolutionary bottle neck (the nocturnal bottleneck hypothesis). This could have avoided predator pressure from diurnal reptiles and dinosaurs, although some predatory dinosaurs, being equally endothermic, might have adopted a nocturnal live style in order to prey on those mammals.\n\nMany insect species are able to maintain a thoracic temperature above the ambient temperature using exercise. These are known as facultative or exercise endotherms. The honey bee, for example, does so by contracting antagonistic flight muscles without moving its wings (see insect thermoregulation). This form of thermogenesis is, however, only efficient above a certain temperature threshold, and below about , the honey bee reverts to ectothermy.\n\nFacultative endothermy can also be seen in multiple snake species that use their metabolic heat to warm their eggs. \"Python molurus\" and \"Morelia spilota\" are two python species where females surround their eggs and shiver in order to incubate them.\n\nSome ectotherms, including several species of fish and reptiles, have been shown to make use of regional endothermy, where muscle activity causes certain parts of the body to remain at higher temperatures than the rest of the body. This allows for better locomotion and use of the senses in cold environments.\n\nBecause of historical accident, students encounter a source of possible confusion between the terminology of physics and biology. Whereas the thermodynamic terms \"exothermic\" and \"endothermic\" respectively refer to processes that give out heat energy and processes that absorb heat energy, in biology the sense is effectively inverted. The metabolic terms \"ectotherm\" and \"endotherm\" respectively refer to organisms that rely largely on external heat to achieve a full working temperature, and to organisms that produce heat from within as a major factor in controlling their body temperatures.\n"}
{"id": "35938754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35938754", "title": "Eufemio Abreu", "text": "Eufemio Abreu\n\nEufemio Abreu (born 1901 – death date unknown) was a Cuban baseball catcher in Negro league baseball. He played from 1919 to 1925 with the Cuban Stars (West) and the Indianapolis ABCs.\n"}
{"id": "4447107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4447107", "title": "Girl of the Uchter Moor", "text": "Girl of the Uchter Moor\n\nThe Girl of the Uchter Moor also known as Moora is the name given to the female Iron Age bog body remains, discovered in 2000 in the marshland near Uchte, Germany. The remains include vertebrae, hair and skull pieces. The studies of the body began in 2005. The radiocarbon dating performed at the University of Kiel showed that Moora had died between 764 and 515 B.C. Despite common Iron Age burial practices, the body was not cremated. All of the body parts are estimated to have been found except for one scapula. \n\nBefore DNA analysis and Radiocarbon Dating, the body was initially believed to be that of a sixteen-year-old girl, Elke Kerll, who had disappeared in 1969 after going to a dance club.\n\nMoora was determined to be between 17 and 19 years old at the time of her death. She was left-handed. It is thought that Moora experienced intense physical labour and likely repeatedly carried heavy loads, like water jugs, while roaming through the marshland. According to Saring Dennis from the University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, Moora sustained at least two partial skull fractures that gradually healed themselves. Moora also suffered long periods of sickness associated with the hardships of long winters. The bone growth lines showed that during her childhood and adolescence, Moora suffered from chronic malnutrition. Moora was also diagnosed to have a benign tumor at the base of her skull, which led to the spine curvature and chronic inflammation in the leg bones. However Moora's cause of death is unknown. It was only determined that Moora was naked at the time she was deposited into the bog.\n\nMoora's face has been reconstructed four times, two of which were digital. The two that were created in the traditional way had been created by molding material over a plastic replica of the skull. The artist had to estimate the shape of the girl's lips, hair color and skin tones, similar to the process of the Yde Girl. The digital reconstructions were created by Ursela Wittwer-Backofen. \n\n"}
{"id": "5609640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5609640", "title": "Grammatical evolution", "text": "Grammatical evolution\n\nGrammatical evolution is a relatively new evolutionary computation technique pioneered by Conor Ryan, JJ Collins and Michael O'Neill in 1998 at the BDS Group in the University of Limerick.\n\nIt is related to the idea of genetic programming in that the objective is to find an executable program or program fragment, that will achieve a good fitness value for the given objective function. In most published work on Genetic Programming, a LISP-style tree-structured expression is directly manipulated, whereas Grammatical Evolution applies genetic operators to an integer string, subsequently mapped to a program (or similar) through the use of a grammar. One of the benefits of GE is that this mapping simplifies the application of search to different programming languages and other structures.\n\nIn type-free, conventional Koza-style GP, the function set must meet the requirement of closure: all functions must be capable of accepting as their arguments the output of all other functions in the function set. Usually, this is implemented by dealing with a single data-type such as double-precision floating point. While modern Genetic Programming frameworks support typing, such type-systems have limitations that Grammatical Evolution does not suffer from.\n\nGE offers a solution to this issue by evolving solutions according to a user-specified grammar (usually a grammar in Backus-Naur form). Therefore the search space can be restricted, and domain knowledge of the problem can be incorporated. The inspiration for this approach comes from a desire to separate the \"genotype\" from the \"phenotype\": in GP, the objects the search algorithm operates on and what the fitness evaluation function interprets are one and the same. In contrast, GE's \"genotypes\" are ordered lists of integers which code for selecting rules from the provided context-free grammar. The phenotype, however, is the same as in Koza-style GP: a tree-like structure that is evaluated recursively. This model is more in line with how genetics work in nature, where there is a separation between an organism's genotype and the final expression of phenotype in proteins, etc.\n\nGE has a modular approach to it. In particular, the search portion of the GE paradigm needn't be carried out by any one particular algorithm or method. Observe that the objects GE performs search on are the same as that used in genetic algorithms. This means, in principle, that any existing genetic algorithm package, such as the popular GAlib, can be used to carry out the search, and a developer implementing a GE system need only worry about carrying out the mapping from list of integers to program tree. It is also in principle possible to perform the search using some other method, such as particle swarm optimization (see the remark below); the modular nature of GE creates many opportunities for hybrids as the problem of interest to be solved dictates.\n\nBrabazon and O'Neill have successfully applied GE to predicting corporate bankruptcy, forecasting stock indices, bond credit ratings, and other financial applications. GE has also been used with a classic predator-prey model to explore the impact of parameters such as predator efficiency, niche number, and random mutations on ecological stability.\n\nIt is possible to structure a GE grammar that for a given function/terminal set is equivalent to genetic programming.\n\nDespite its successes, GE has been the subject of some criticism. One issue is that as a result of its mapping operation, GE's genetic operators do not achieve high locality which is a highly regarded property of genetic operators in evolutionary algorithms.\n\nAlthough GE is fairly new, there are already enhanced versions and variants that have been worked out. GE researchers have experimented with using particle swarm optimization to carry out the searching instead of genetic algorithms with results comparable to that of normal GE; this is referred to as a \"grammatical swarm\"; using only the basic PSO model it has been found that PSO is probably equally capable of carrying out the search process in GE as simple genetic algorithms are. (Although PSO is normally a floating-point search paradigm, it can be discretized, e.g., by simply rounding each vector to the nearest integer, for use with GE.)\n\nYet another possible variation that has been experimented with in the literature is attempting to encode semantic information in the grammar in order to further bias the search process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29874967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29874967", "title": "Gremiphyca", "text": "Gremiphyca\n\nGremiphyca is a lobed, non-mineralized alga with a pseudoparenchymatous thallus, dating to the Ediacaran period. The genus was reinvestigated by Xiao et al. and was interpreted to be a stem-group florideophyte.\n"}
{"id": "36128779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36128779", "title": "High-risk pregnancy", "text": "High-risk pregnancy\n\nA high-risk pregnancy is one of greater risk to the mother or her fetus than an uncomplicated pregnancy. Pregnancy places additional physical and emotional stress on a woman’s body. Health problems that occur before a woman becomes pregnant or during pregnancy may also increase the likelihood for a high-risk pregnancy. The NICHD is one of many federal agencies working to improve pregnancy outcome, prevent high-risk pregnancy, and improve health outcomes for pregnant women who are at high risk. The NICHD supports and conducts research on the causes and optimal management of the high-risk pregnancy.\n\nEven though high blood pressure can be risky for mother and fetus, many women with high blood pressure have healthy pregnancies and healthy children. Uncontrolled high blood pressure, however, can lead to damage to the mother’s kidneys and increases the risk for low birth weight or preeclampsia.\n\nPolycystic (pronounced pah-lee-SIS-tik) ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a disorder that can interfere with a woman's ability to get and stay pregnant. PCOS may result in higher rates of miscarriage (the spontaneous loss of the fetus before 20 weeks of pregnancy), gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, and premature delivery.\n\nIt is important for women with diabetes to manage their blood sugar levels before getting pregnant. High blood sugar levels can cause birth defects during the first few weeks of pregnancy, often before women even know they are pregnant. Controlling blood sugar levels and taking a multivitamin with 40 micrograms of folic acid every day can help reduce this risk.\n\nWomen with kidney disease often have difficulty getting pregnant, and any pregnancy is at significant risk for miscarriage. Pregnant women with kidney disease require additional treatments, changes in diet and medication, and frequent visits to their health care provider.4\nAutoimmune disease. Autoimmune diseases include conditions such as lupus and multiple sclerosis. Some autoimmune diseases can increase a women's risk for problems during pregnancy. For example, lupus can increase the risk for preterm birth and stillbirth. Some women may find that their symptoms improve during pregnancy, while others experience flare ups and other challenges. Certain medications to treat autoimmune diseases may be harmful to the fetus as well.5\nThyroid disease. Uncontrolled thyroid disease, such as an overactive or underactive thyroid (small gland in the neck that makes hormones that regulate the heart rate and blood pressure) can cause problems for the fetus, such as heart failure, poor weight gain, and birth defects.\nInfertility. Several studies have found that women who take drugs that increase the chances of pregnancy are significantly more likely to have pregnancy complications than those who get pregnant without assistance. These complications often involve the placenta (the organ linking the fetus and the mother) and vaginal bleeding.\n\nObesity can make a pregnancy more difficult, increasing a woman’s chance of developing diabetes during pregnancy, which can contribute to difficult births. On the other hand, some women weigh too little for their own health and the health of their growing fetus. In 2009, the Institute of Medicine updated its recommendations on how much weight to gain during pregnancy.9 New recommendations issued by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists suggest that overweight and obese women may be able to gain even less than what is recommended and still have a healthy infant.10\nHIV/AIDS. HIV/AIDS damages cells of the immune system, making it difficult to fight infections and certain cancers. Women can pass the virus to their fetus during pregnancy; transmission also can occur during labor and giving birth or through breastfeeding. Fortunately, effective treatments exist to reduce the spread of HIV from the mother to her fetus, newborn, or infant. Women with very low viral loads may be able to have a vaginal delivery with a low risk of transmission. An option for pregnant women with higher viral loads (measurement of the amount of active HIV in the blood) is a caesarean delivery, which reduces the risk of passing HIV to the infant during labor and delivery. Early and regular prenatal care is important. Women who take medication to treat their HIV and have a cesarean delivery can reduce the risk of transmission to 2%.11\n\nPregnant teens are more likely to develop high blood pressure and anemia (lack of healthy red blood cells), and go into labor earlier than women who are older. Teens also may be exposed to a sexually transmitted disease or infection that could affect their pregnancy. Teens may be less likely to get prenatal care or to make ongoing appointments with health care providers during the pregnancy to evaluate risks, ensure they are staying healthy, and understand what medications and drugs they can use.\n\nOlder first-time mothers may have normal pregnancies, but research indicates that these women are at increased risk of having:\nA cesarean (pronounced si-ZAIR-ee-uhn) delivery (when the newborn is delivered through a surgical incision in the mother’s abdomen)\nDelivery complications, including excessive bleeding during labor\nProlonged labor (lasting more than 20 hours)\nLabor that does not advance\nAn infant with a genetic disorder, such as Down syndrome.\n\nAlcohol consumed during pregnancy passes directly to the fetus through the umbilical cord. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that women avoid alcoholic beverages during pregnancy or when they are trying to get pregnant.15 During pregnancy, women who drink are more likely to have a miscarriage or stillbirth. Other risks to the fetus include a higher chance of having birth defects and fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD). FASD is the technical name for the group of fetal disorders that have been associated with drinking alcohol during pregnancy. It causes abnormal facial features, short stature and low body weight, hyperactivity disorder, intellectual disabilities, and vision or hearing problems.7 \n. Smoking during pregnancy puts the fetus at risk for preterm birth, certain birth defects, and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Secondhand smoke also puts a woman and her developing fetus at increased risk for health problems.\n\nMultiple gestation. Pregnancy with twins, triplets, or more, referred to as a multiple gestation, increases the risk of infants being born prematurely (before 37 weeks of pregnancy). Having infants after age 30 and taking fertility drugs both have been associated with multiple births. Having three or more infants increases the chance that a woman will need to have the infants delivered by cesarean section. Twins and triplets are more likely to be smaller for their size than infants of singleton births. If infants of multiple gestation are born prematurely, they are more likely to have difficulty breathing.16\nGestational diabetes. Gestational diabetes, also known as gestational diabetes mellitus, GDM, or diabetes during pregnancy, is diabetes that first develops when a woman is pregnant. Many women can have healthy pregnancies if they manage their diabetes, following a diet and treatment plan from their health care provider. Uncontrolled gestational diabetes increases the risk for preterm labor and delivery, preeclampsia, and high blood pressure.\nPreeclampsia and eclampsia. Preeclampsia is a syndrome marked by a sudden increase in the blood pressure of a pregnant woman after the 20th week of pregnancy. It can affect the mother's kidneys, liver, and brain. When left untreated, the condition can be fatal for the mother and/or the fetus and result in long-term health problems. Eclampsia is a more severe form of preeclampsia, marked by seizures and coma in the mother.\n"}
{"id": "52502735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52502735", "title": "Hot nose sign", "text": "Hot nose sign\n\nThe hot nose sign refers to increased perfusion in the nasal region on nuclear medicine cerebral perfusion studies in the setting of brain death. The absent or reduced flow in the internal carotid arteries is thought to lead to increased flow within the external carotid arteries and subsequent increased perfusion in the nasal region.\n"}
{"id": "32607746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32607746", "title": "Imagined speech", "text": "Imagined speech\n\nImagined speech (silent speech or covert speech) is thinking in the form of sound – “hearing” one’s own voice silently to oneself, without the intentional movement of any extremities such as the lips, tongue, or hands. Logically, imagined speech has been possible since the emergence of language, however, the phenomenon is most associated with the signal processing and detection within electroencephalograph (EEG) data as well as data obtained using alternative non-invasive, brain–computer interface (BCI) devices.\n\nIn 2008, the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) provided a $4 million grant to the University of California (Irvine), with the intent of providing a foundation for synthetic telepathy. According to DARPA, the project “will allow user-to-user communication on the battlefield without the use of vocalized speech through neural signals analysis. The brain generates word-specific signals prior to sending electrical impulses to the vocal cords. These imagined speech signals would be analyzed and translated into distinct words allowing covert person-to-person communication.”\n\nDARPA's program outline has three major goals:\n\nThe process for analyzing subjects' \"silent speech\" is composed of recording subjects’ brain waves, and then using a computer to process the data and determine the content of the subjects' \"covert speech\".\n\nSubject neural patterns (brain waves) can be recorded using BCI devices; currently, use of non-invasive devices, specifically the EEG, is of greater interest to researchers than invasive and partially invasive types. This is because non-invasive types pose the least risk to subject health; EEG's have attracted the greatest interest because they offer the most user-friendly approach in addition to having far less complex instrumentation than that of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI’s), another commonly used non-invasive BCI.\n\nThe first step in processing non-invasive data is to remove artifacts such as eye movement and blinking, as well as other electromyographic activity. After artifact-removal, a series of algorithms is used to translate raw data into the imagined speech content. Processing is also intended to occur in real-time—the information is processed as it is recorded, which allows for near-simultaneous viewing of the content as the subject imagines it.\n\nPresumably, “thinking in the form of sound” recruits auditory and language areas whose activation profiles may be extracted from the EEG, given adequate processing. The goal is to relate these signals to a template that represents “what the person is thinking about”. This template could for instance be the acoustic envelope (energy) timeseries corresponding to sound if it were physically uttered. Such mapping from EEG to stimulus is an example of neural decoding techniques.\n\nA major problem however is the many variations that the very same message can have under diverse physical conditions (speaker or noise, for example). Hence one can have the same EEG signal, but it is uncertain, at least in acoustic terms, what stimulus to map it to. This in turn makes it difficult to train the relevant decoder.\n\nThis process could instead be approached using higher-order (‘linguistic’) representations of the message. The mappings to such representations are non-linear and can be heavily context-dependent, therefore further research may be necessary. Nevertheless, it is known that an 'acoustic' strategy can still be maintained by pre-setting a “template” by making it known to the listener exactly what message to think about, even if passively, and in a non-explicit form. In these circumstances it is possible to partially decode the acoustic envelope of speech message from neural timeseries if the listener is induced to think in the form of sound.\n\nIn detection of other imagined actions, such as imagined physical movements, greater brain activity occurs in one hemisphere over the other. This presence of asymmetrical activity acts as a major aid in identifying the subject's imagined action. In imagined speech detection however, equal levels of activity commonly occur in both the left and right hemispheres simultaneously. This lack of lateralization demonstrates a significant challenge in analyzing neural signals of this type.\n\nAnother unique challenge is a relatively low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in the recorded data. A SNR represents the amount of meaningful signals found in a data set, compared to the amount of arbitrary or useless signals present in the same set. Artifacts present in EEG data are just one of many significant sources of noise.\n\nTo further complicate matters, the relative placement of EEG electrodes will vary amongst subjects. This is because the anatomical details of people's heads will differ; therefore, the signals recorded will vary in each subject, regardless of individuals-specific imagined speech characteristics.\n\nForemost, EEG use requires meticulously securing electrodes onto a subject’s head; the electrodes are connected through a web of wires tethered to a CPU. So, creating an everyday, user-friendly communicator requires a further development of compacting EEGs and their signal-processors into an easy-to-use, lightweight, and fashionable device. (e.g. a headband with Wi-Fi or Bluetooth)\n\nIn addition, current detection methods cannot distinguish between more than two signals (i.e. /ba/ or /ku/, yes or no). Therefore, a significant advancement in EEG processing algorithms is still required. This may suggest that an overall understanding of human-information-processing patterns must be better understood first, as it would offer insight into classifying word-specific neural-patterns common to all people.\n"}
{"id": "3904539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3904539", "title": "It's Not Luck", "text": "It's Not Luck\n\nIt's Not Luck (1994) is a business novel and a sequel to \"The Goal\". The plot continues to follow the advancement of the main character, Alex Rogo, through the corporate ranks of large manufacturer, UniCo. \n\nAuthor Dr. Eliyahu M. Goldratt continues to teach the reader his thinking processes through the eyes of Alex Rogo as he learns from his mentor, Jonah. In this book, the primary subjects are the resolution of conflict through the evaporating clouds method and the identification of root causes through the effect-cause-effect method.\n\nIn this book the main character, Alex, conducts the reader through the essence of some TOC tools and applications, like the Thinking Processes and the TOC solutions for Marketing, Distribution and how to compose the Strategy of a company.\n"}
{"id": "17945879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17945879", "title": "James Kirkland (boxer)", "text": "James Kirkland (boxer)\n\nJames Derick Kirkland (born March 19, 1984) is an American professional boxer who held the regional WBO–NABO junior middleweight title in 2008. He was one of boxing's most prominent junior middleweight prospects in the late 2000s and early 2010s, until an 18-month prison stint set his career back significantly. Nicknamed the \"Mandingo Warrior\", Kirkland is known for being a highly aggressive southpaw pressure fighter with formidable punching power, having scored 82% per cent of his victories via knockout.\n\nKirkland has an amateur record of 134–12. and won the Silver Gloves championship four years in a row and lost on a controversial decision to James Patterson in the finals of the National Golden Gloves.\n\nInstead of going to the Olympics, Kirkland turned professional to provide for his family.\n\nKirkland turned professional in August 2001 in San Antonio, Texas. In his debut Kirkland defeated fellow debutant Maurice Chalmers with a third-round knockout. Kirkland has been trained by former women's champion Ann Wolfe since 2001. On November 22, 2008, Kirkland (24–0, 21 KOs) won an 8th round technical knockout versus Brian Vera (16–2, 10 KOs). Kirkland dropped Vera twice in Round 2. On March 7, 2009, Kirkland defeated Joel Julio on HBO's Boxing After Dark at the HP Pavilion in San Jose by TKO after Round 6.\n\nOn March 5, 2011, Kirkland returned to the ring after an almost 2-year layoff to defeat Ahsandi Gibbs via first-round KO. \nOn April 9, 2011, Kirkland faced Nobuhiro Ishida of Japan, in what was supposed to be a stay-busy fight for Kirkland. However, in a stunning upset, the previously undefeated Kirkland was stopped in the first round by the Japanese fighter, who isn't known for being a big puncher having only 7 KO's in 29 fights, getting knocked down 3 times. After the loss, Kirkland split with trainer Kenny Adams and reunited with Ann Wolfe. Kirkland and Wolfe had broken up after Kirkland went to prison.\n\nKirkland came back from his first-round knockout loss to score three knockdowns over Alexis Hloros en route to a second-round knockout. He entered the fight his usual aggression, looking to mix it up immediately and scored two knockdowns in the opening round. First, Hloros went down during a flurry and then he took a knee during another stream of punches.\n\nOn November 5, 2011, in a highly exciting fight, Kirkland rose from a first round knockdown to defeat Angulo via 6th-round TKO.\n\nIn addition to his aforementioned victories over Angulo, Kirkland's other notable wins have been against Brian Vera (TKO8), who just lost a controversial decision to Julio Cesar Chavez, Jr., Joel Julio (TKO6) and Eromosele Albert (TKO1).\n\nOn October 16, 2013 it was announced that Kirkland, has signed with promoter/rap star 50 Cent and his company SMS Promotions and has his next fight lined up.\n\nOn December 7, 2013, Kirkland continued his winning ways with a sixth-round TKO of 23-year-old prospect Glen Tapia at the Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City. In the article, Kirkland was described as 'potentially, the most dominant offensive force in boxing since a prime Mike Tyson'.\n\nKirkland fought former Super Welterweight Champion Canelo Álvarez after his decision victory over Erislandy Lara on July 12. The fight took place on May 9 at Minute Maid Park in Houston, Texas with Kirkland losing by KO in 3rd round.\n\nAs of 2009, Kirkland was on probation for an armed robbery conviction in 2003, for which he spent 30 months in prison.\n\nOn Sunday, April 19, 2009, Kirkland was stopped in Austin traffic and arrested for possession of a firearm by a felon, with a possibility of prison time if he is convicted. On Wednesday, September 23, 2009, Kirkland was sentenced to 24 months in prison after pleading guilty to the firearm charge. Kirkland was released from prison in September 2010 and spent several more months in a halfway house in Austin, Texas.\n\nIn June 2013, Kirkland was again arrested - this time for assault - and jailed in Texas. Ring observers believe that these legal troubles will negatively impact Kirkland's career.\n"}
{"id": "11906068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11906068", "title": "King (horse)", "text": "King (horse)\n\nKing (1932–1958), often known as King P-234, was an outstanding early Quarter Horse stallion who influenced the breed throughout the early years of the American Quarter Horse Association (or AQHA).\n\nKing was born June 25, 1932, the offspring of Zantanon and Jabalina. Originally named Buttons by his breeder, he was renamed King when he was registered with the AQHA as number 234. He was a bay stallion, bred by Manuel Benavides Volpe of Laredo, Texas and owned at the time of registration by Jess L. Hankins of Rocksprings, Texas. The AQHA gave his sire as Zantanon by Little Joe by Traveler and his dam as Jabalina by Strait Horse by Yellow Jacket by Little Rondo (Bunton Horse). His second dam was a mare by Traveler, making him linebred to Traveler.\n\nVolpe sold Buttons/King to Charles Alexander of Laredo as a weanling for $150. Later, Byrne James of Encinal, Texas bought King from Alexander for $325. It was James' wife that changed the horse's name from Buttons to King. James broke King and used him for roping and other ranch work, but when James joined the New York Giants organization to play baseball, King was sold to Winn DuBose of Uvalde, Texas for $550. However, eventually DuBose sold King to Jess Hankins of Rocksprings, Texas on July 5, 1937 for the sum of $800.\n\nKing died on March 24, 1958 of heart failure.\n\nKing was the sire of many famous Quarter Horses including Brown King H, Martha King, Royal King, King's Pistol, Gay Widow, Black Gold King, Power Command, Poco Bueno, Continental King, and LH Quarter Moon. Two of his sons were inducted into the AQHA Hall of Fame, those being Poco Bueno and Royal King. His daughter Taboo was the dam of Joe Cody, another member of the AQHA Hall of Fame.\n\nKing was inducted into the AQHA Hall of Fame in 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26651473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26651473", "title": "Kirsty MacColl", "text": "Kirsty MacColl\n\nKirsty Anna MacColl (10 October 1959 – 18 December 2000) was a British singer and songwriter. She recorded several pop hits in the 1980s and 1990s, including \"There's a Guy Works Down the Chip Shop Swears He's Elvis\" and cover versions of Billy Bragg's \"A New England\" and The Kinks' \"Days\". Her song \"They Don't Know\" was covered with great success by Tracey Ullman. MacColl also sang on recordings produced by her husband Steve Lillywhite, most notably \"Fairytale of New York\" by The Pogues.\n\nKirsty MacColl was the daughter of folk singer Ewan MacColl (1915–1989) and dancer Jean Newlove (1923–2017). Her father had Scottish ancestry. She and her brother, Hamish MacColl, grew up with their mother in Croydon, where Kirsty attended Park Hill Primary School, Monks Hill High School and John Newnham High School, making appearances in school plays. At the time of her birth, her father had been in a relationship with folk singer, multi-instrumentalist and songwriter Peggy Seeger since 1956 (a relationship that would continue until his death in 1989), and already had a son with her.\n\nShe came to notice when Chiswick Records released an EP by local punk rock band the Drug Addix with MacColl on backing vocals (\"The Drug Addix Make A Record\") under the pseudonym Mandy Doubt (1978). Stiff Records executives were not impressed with the band, but liked her and subsequently signed her to a solo deal.\n\nHer debut solo single \"They Don't Know\", released in 1979, peaked at number two on the Music Week airplay chart. However, a distributors' strike prevented copies of the single getting into record stores, and the single consequently failed to appear on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nMacColl recorded a follow-up single, \"You Caught Me Out\", but felt she lacked Stiff's full backing, and left the label shortly before the song was to be released. The single was pulled, and only a few \"white label\" promo copies of the single are known to exist.\n\nMacColl moved to Polydor Records in 1981. She had a UK number 14 hit with \"There's a Guy Works Down the Chip Shop Swears He's Elvis\", taken from her critically acclaimed debut album \"Desperate Character\". In 1983, Polydor dropped her just as she had completed recording the songs for a planned second album (to be called \"Real\") which used more synthesizers and had new wave-styled tracks. She returned to Stiff, where pop singles such as \"Terry\" and \"He's On the Beach\" were unsuccessful but a cover of Billy Bragg's \"A New England\" in 1985 got to number 7 in the UK charts. This included two extra verses specially written for her by Bragg. Also around this time, MacColl wrote and performed the theme song \"London Girls\" for Channel 4's short-lived sitcom \"Dream Stuffing\" (1984).\n\nIn the United States, MacColl was probably most recognisable as the writer of \"They Don't Know\". Tracey Ullman's version reached #2 in the UK in 1983 and #8 in the United States in early 1984. MacColl also sang back-up on the track, providing the \"Baay-byy\" because it was too high a pitch for Ullman. It was played over the closing credits of Ullman's HBO show \"Tracey Takes On\"... in 1996. Ullman also recorded three more of MacColl's songs, \"You Broke My Heart In 17 Places\" and \"You Caught Me Out\", as the title tracks of her first and second albums respectively, and \"Terry\" which was released as a single in 1985.\n\nWhen Stiff went bankrupt in 1986, MacColl was left unable to record in her own right, as no record company bought her contract from the Official Receiver. However, she had regular session work as a backing vocalist, and she frequently sang on records produced or engineered by her husband, Steve Lillywhite, including tracks for Robert Plant, The Smiths, Alison Moyet, Shriekback, Simple Minds, Talking Heads, Big Country, Anni-Frid Lyngstad (of ABBA) and The Wonder Stuff among others. She appeared in the videos \"Welcome to the Cheap Seats\" for The Wonder Stuff and \"(Nothing But) Flowers\" for Talking Heads (along with ex-The Smiths guitarist Johnny Marr). MacColl also set the track sequencing for U2's acclaimed breakthrough album \"The Joshua Tree\", for which Lillywhite provided mixes.\n\nMacColl re-emerged in the British charts in December 1987, reaching Number 2 with The Pogues on \"Fairytale of New York\", a duet with Shane MacGowan. This led to her accompanying The Pogues on their British and European tour in 1988, an experience which she said helped her temporarily overcome her stage fright. In March 1989, MacColl sang backing vocals on the Happy Mondays' \"Hallelujah\" EP.\n\nAfter the contract issue was resolved, MacColl returned to recording as a solo artist and received critical acclaim upon the release of \"Kite\" (LP) in 1989. The album was widely praised by critics, and featured collaborations with David Gilmour and Johnny Marr. MacColl's lyrics addressed life in Margaret Thatcher's Britain on \"Free World\", ridiculed the vapidity of fame in \"Fifteen Minutes\", and addressed the vagaries of love in \"Don't Come The Cowboy With Me Sonny Jim!\" Although \"Kite\" contained many original compositions, MacColl's biggest chart success from the album was the cover of The Kinks' song \"Days\", which gave her a UK Top 20 hit in July 1989. A bonus track on the CD version of \"Kite\" was a cover of the Smiths song \"You Just Haven't Earned It Yet, Baby\".\n\nDuring this time, MacColl featured on the British TV sketch comedy \"French and Saunders\", appearing as herself, singing songs including \"15 Minutes\" and \"Don't Come The Cowboy With Me Sunny Jim!\" (from \"Kite\"), \"Still Life\" (the B-side of the \"Days\" single), \"Girls On Bikes\" (a reworking of B-side \"Am I Right?\") and, with comedy duo Raw Sex, the Frank and Nancy Sinatra hit \"Somethin' Stupid\". She continued to write and record, releasing the album \"Electric Landlady\" in 1991. The album's title was coined by Johnny Marr as a play on the Jimi Hendrix album title \"Electric Ladyland\". It included her most successful chart hit in North America, \"Walking Down Madison\", co-written with Marr and a Top 30 hit in the UK. Despite the song's U.S. chart success, \"Landlady\" was not a hit for Virgin Records and in 1992, when Virgin was sold to EMI, MacColl was dropped from the label.\n\nShe released \"Titanic Days\", informed by her failing marriage with Lillywhite, in 1993, but ZTT Records had agreed only to release the album as a \"one-off\" and declined to sign her to a contract. In 1995, she released two new singles on Virgin, \"Caroline\" and a cover of Lou Reed's \"Perfect Day\" (a duet with Evan Dando), together with the \"best of\" compilation \"Galore\".\n\n\"Galore\" became MacColl's only album to reach the top 10 in the UK Albums Chart, but neither of the new singles, nor a re-released \"Days\", made the Top 40. MacColl did not record again for several years; her frustration with the music business was exacerbated by a lengthy case of writer's block. MacColl herself admitted that she was ready to give up her music career and become an English teacher in South America.\n\nIn 1998, the album \"What Do Pretty Girls Do?\" was released, containing BBC Radio 1 live sessions (featuring Billy Bragg on two songs) that were broadcast between 1989 and 1995.\n\nAfter several trips to Cuba and Brazil, MacColl recorded the world music-inspired (particularly Cuban and other Latin American forms) \"Tropical Brainstorm\", which was released in 2000 to critical acclaim. It included the song \"In These Shoes?\", which garnered airplay in the U.S., was covered by Bette Midler and featured in the HBO show \"Sex and the City\". After MacColl's death it was adopted by Catherine Tate as the theme tune for her BBC TV show and featured on the soundtrack to film \"Kinky Boots\".\n\nHowever, prior to her death, despite the relative success of \"Tropical Brainstorm\" album MacColl had been been dropped by V2 Records.\n\nMacColl featured regularly in the third series of the \"French and Saunders Show\", a comedy show on the BBC. Unlike other guests on the show, she was not part of any of the sketches but sang her songs whilst performing as in a music video. She also made regular appearances on Jools Holland's TV shows, also on the BBC, singing during the 1995 \"Hootenanny\" a rendition of \"Miss Otis Regrets\" with the Pipes and Drums of the Irish Guards.\n\nMacColl appeared in the 1991 Channel 4 historic musical fantasy \"The Ghosts of Oxford Street\" as Kitty Fisher, performing \"Fairytale of New York\" opposite Shane MacGowan as the Duke of York.\n\nIn 2000, following her participation in the presentation of a radio programme for the BBC in Cuba, MacColl took a holiday in Cozumel, Mexico, with her sons and her partner, musician James Knight. On 18 December 2000, she and her sons went diving at the Chankanaab reef, part of the National Marine Park of Cozumel, in a designated diving area that watercraft were restricted from entering. With the group was a local veteran divemaster, Iván Díaz. As the group were surfacing from a dive, a powerboat moving at high speed entered the restricted area. MacColl saw the boat coming before her sons did; Louis (then 13) was not in its path, but Jamie (then 15) was. She was able to push him out of the way (he sustained minor head and rib injuries), but she was struck by the boat which ran over her. MacColl suffered severe chest injuries and died instantly. MacColl's body was repatriated to the United Kingdom, and was cremated after a humanist funeral at Mortlake Crematorium in Kew.\n\nThe powerboat involved in the accident was owned by Guillermo González Nova, multimillionaire president of the Comercial Mexicana supermarket chain, who was on board with members of his family. One of his employees, boathand José Cen Yam, stated that he was in control of the boat at the time of the incident. Eyewitnesses said that Cen Yam was not at the controls and that the boat was travelling much faster than the speed of one knot that González Nova said.\n\nCen Yam was found guilty of culpable homicide and was sentenced to 2 years 10 months in prison. He was allowed under Mexican law to pay a punitive fine of 1,034 pesos (about €63, £61 or US$90) in lieu of the prison sentence. He was also ordered to pay approximately US$2,150 in restitution to MacColl's family, an amount based on his wages. People who said they spoke to Cen Yam after the accident said he received money for taking the blame.\n\nMacColl's family launched the Justice for Kirsty campaign in response to the events surrounding her death. Among the group's efforts:\nIn December 2009, it was announced that the Justice For Kirsty campaign was being ended since \"the committee was successful in achieving most of its aims\" and \"it is unlikely that any more could be achieved\". The campaign's remaining funds were to be divided between two charities, Casa Alianza México and Cuba Music Solidarity, of which \"Kirsty would have approved\".\n\nSince MacColl's death, Billy Bragg has always included her extra verses when performing \"A New England\". She was honoured in 2002 with a memorial concert in London at the Royal Festival Hall, featuring a number of musicians who had worked with her or been influenced by her. A similar memorial concert took place on her birthday (10 October 2010) at the O2 Shepherds Bush Empire, to support her favourite charity, The Music Fund for Cuba.\n\nIn 2001, a bench was placed by the southern entrance to London's Soho Square as a memorial to her, after a lyric from one of her most poignant songs: \"One day I'll be waiting there / No empty bench in Soho Square\". Every year on the Sunday nearest to MacColl's birthday, 10 October, fans from all over the world hold a gathering at the bench to pay tribute to her and sing her songs.\n\nMacColl continues to receive media exposure; in 2004, \"Kirsty MacColl: The One and Only,\" a biography of MacColl written by Karen O'Brien, was published. A retrospective three-CD set spanning her full career, \"From Croydon To Cuba,\" was released in 2005. \"Titanic Days\" was re-released in 2005 as a deluxe 2-CD set, and \"Kite\" and \"Electric Landlady\" were also remastered and rereleased with additional tracks. Her first album, \"Desperate Character,\" was given its first CD issue in 2012 on the Salvo label. On 7 August 2005, \"The Best of Kirsty MacColl,\" a single-disc compilation that included a \"new\" single, \"Sun on the Water\", made its debut on the UK album charts at number 17, climbing to #12 a week later.\n\nMacColl's collaboration with the Pogues, \"Fairytale of New York\", remains a perennial Christmas favourite. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, it was voted favourite Christmas song in a poll by music video channel VH1.\n\nThe song was re-released in the UK in December 2005, with proceeds being split between the Justice for Kirsty Campaign and charities for the homeless. The re-release reached number 3 on the UK charts, and spent five weeks in the top 75 over the Christmas and New Year period. It reached the top 10 for the third time in its history in 2006, peaking at number 6, and charted yet again in December 2007, when there was brief controversy over the use of the word 'faggot' in the lyrics, which BBC Radio 1 dubbed out \"to avoid offence\", 20 years after it had first passed over the airwaves without comment (or apparent offence, although the rhyme had been changed to \"haggard\" for a St. Patrick's Day concert in 1998); following criticism from listeners and MacColl's mother, Radio 1 reversed their decision later in the day. The song has also made the Top 20 in subsequent years, and has now spent more time in the top 20 than any other song. With the exception of the 2005 and 2012 re-releases, the seasonal re-charting in the 21st century is due to download sales, and not due to further releases (download sales counting toward the singles chart since 2005). A 7\" single was produced in 2012 to mark the 25th anniversary of its original appearance (Rhino Records WEA400), backed with an instrumental version.\n\n"}
{"id": "28353124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28353124", "title": "Kristian Aadnevik", "text": "Kristian Aadnevik\n\nKristian Aadnevik (born 10 January 1978) is a London-based Norwegian fashion designer, who graduated from Royal College of Art in 2002.\n\nAadnevik was born in Bergen, Norway. After finishing an education at Bergen Yrkesskole he moved to London to pursue a MA at the Royal College of Art, where he received numerous awards. During his studies he worked as a design assistant at Alexander McQueen.\n\nAadnevik established his own label in 2004 and he presented his first collection the same year at London Fashion Week. Apart from his own label he has collaborated and designed collections for several international brands including Charles Jourdan Paris for Japan, Harrods International as well as held a position as a senior designer at Roberto Cavalli.\n\nIn 2007 Aadnevik was chosen as one of five designers in \"The Protégé Project\", an initiative of Australian Wool innovation, which resulted in him being selected protégé of Donatella Versace. In line with this he showcased his F/W 2008 collection at Milan Fashion Week where his collection was met with critical acclaim and he was named as one of fall 2008's most promising new talents by Style.com.\n\nAadnevik has dressed several celebrities, some of them include Beyoncé, Nicole Scherzinger, Selena Gomez, Kelly Rowland, Cheryl Cole, Britney Spears, Rihanna, Pixie Lott, Daisy Lowe and Dita Von Teese. British Musician Estelle also wore one of his creations in the music video for her single \"American Boy\".\n"}
{"id": "6376221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6376221", "title": "Landlord harassment", "text": "Landlord harassment\n\nLandlord harassment is the willing creation, by a landlord or his agents, of conditions that are uncomfortable for one or more tenants in order to induce willing abandonment of a rental contract. Such a strategy is often sought because it avoids costly legal expenses and potential problems with eviction. This kind of activity is common in regions where rent control laws exist, but which do not allow the direct extension of rent-controlled prices from one tenancy to the subsequent tenancy, thus allowing landlords to set higher prices. Landlord harassment carries specific legal penalties in some jurisdictions, but enforcement can be very difficult or even impossible in many circumstances. However, when a crime is committed in the process and motives similar to those described above are subsequently proven in court, then those motives may be considered an aggravating factor in many jurisdictions, thus subjecting the offender(s) to a stiffer sentence.\n\nVarious methods may be employed in cases of landlord harassment, such as, but not limited to the following:\n\nAt common law tenants were entitled to the \"quiet enjoyment\" of leased premises. American common law has also adopted the \"warranty of habitability\" which ensures that residential premises remain in repair.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth, the Human Rights Act may provide a basis to establish what is fair and reasonable between tenant and landlord. The right to private and family life, and the right to enjoy one's possessions, are enshrined in this law. The right to an effective remedy and the right to express oneself freely should give the tenant the confidence to seek timely and reasonable resolution should they be suffering or under duress. Although human rights legislation is generally only enforceable against public bodies, it provides a framework of reasonability.\n\nDepending on the specific circumstances, United Kingdom legislation such as the Public Order Act 1986 and the Fraud Act 2006 may provide specific remedies. Both common law and public order legislation makes it an offence for persons to behave wrongfully in a dwelling e.g. breach of the peace. Fraud legislation makes it an offence for a person to make a wrongful or forced gain (monetary or other) personally or for the body they represent.\n\nMany local jurisdictions have very specific landlord-tenant legislation that sets out the duties of the landlord, a breach of which may be considered \"harassment\". For example, in California, Civil Code Section 1954, limits the landlord's right of entry, and in New Mexico, there is an extensive \"Owner-Resident Relations Act\"\n\nThe conduct of business inside or at a dwelling must depend upon the reasonableness and willingness of the parties. If a landlord desires to inspect the dwelling at reasonable intervals and at reasonable times, it is advisable to have this in a contract proper--- Regardless, the purpose of the inspection must be clear, and the conduct of the inspection must be properly regulated. The purpose of any inspection is surely to ensure the integrity and good maintenance of the property, and the adherence to the agreement that exists between landlord and tenant. Entry into a dwelling does not give the landlord the right to gather information on, or to investigate, or interfere with, the privacy of the tenant. If the tenant is not comfortable dealing with the landlord or agent, then the tenant may wish to appoint a representative or friend. In either case, a simple and sensible record should be made.\n\nThe time taken to carry out the task should be reasonable. The tenant may not wish to conduct business inside a dwelling, and can reasonably ask the landlord to meet or transact business at an alternate place or address.\n\nFor example, the landlord (or agent) may attend at the premises to carry out an inspection which will normally take only a matter of minutes. The parties may then agree to exchange a simple written statement of facts, and then meet at a neutral place to discuss the matter or remedy.\n\nIn carrying out repairs, replacements and other work, the landlord should make reasonable efforts to limit the frequency of entries to those actually necessary to accomplish the work. For the sake of retention of one’s tenants and the avoidance of strife during tenancy, the keys to exercise of the right to entry are as follows. 1. Enter as infrequently as possible. 2. Always give ample notice and, if possible, allow rescheduling of the entry at least once to accommodate the tenant. 3. Always enter with a clearly defined objective in mind, and notify the tenant of it unless there is a strong reason not to do so.\n\nLegally, even a rented home is the tenant's castle, and the landlord does not have an unlimited right of access. Once an individual has rented an apartment, they have legal possession of it for the duration of their tenancy. The landlord must give the tenant reasonable notice, before he can enter the tenant's private home.\n\nOriginally, in an agricultural society, the law expected the landlord to rent the property to a tenant and then leave the tenant alone. It gave the landlord no right of access, but also no responsibility for repairs. The modern urban tenancy, especially in a multi-unit building with many building-wide systems, has forced that law to change. The landlord now has an obligation to make repairs and gets a right of access for that purpose. But that does not supersede the tenant's rights to privacy and to \"quiet enjoyment\" of the premises.\n\nOne of the most common landlord-tenant disputes involves access for making repairs. State Sanitary Codes require tenants to allow the landlord \"reasonable access\" at reasonable times to repair code violations. What is \"reasonable\", however, is the subject of frequent disputes. A tenant may insist on giving the landlord access only by appointment, but they must be reasonable about scheduling appointments. To give an extreme example, since the landlord usually must schedule tradespeople during the normal working day, it is not reasonable for the tenant to insist that the plumber can only come in on Sunday evening. Plumbers, carpenters, painters, and other tradesmen sometimes operate on unpredictable or busy schedules, so if they fail to keep appointments, tenants are encouraged to document the missed appointment in writing to the landlord, in a letter or e-mail, and keep a copy. Because some landlords may use lack of access as an excuse, tenants are also encouraged to keep scheduled appointments and maintain a good written record of their efforts to allow the landlord access to their property to make the desired repairs. In addition, because of documented cases of tradesmen stealing property, making long-distance phone calls, or committing other abuses while making repairs, tenants are also urged to make sure that the landlord or a representative be with repairmen at all times when they are in the tenant's property during the tenant's absence.\n\nHousing courts can often be helpful in mediating disputes over access. The tenant's credibility in court will be improved if he or she has consistently cooperated reasonably with the landlord's need for access, and has documented their cooperation with careful record-keeping. If necessary, with a particularly difficult landlord, the tenant may benefit from asking a witness to observe interactions, and later testify about the landlord's conduct.\n\nMany leases give the landlord certain entry rights. For example, under Massachusetts General Laws, ch.186, §15B, a rental agreement may only provide for the following rights to access:\n\nThe landlord may also enter the premises in accordance with a court order or if the tenant appears to have abandoned the premises. If a lease allows the landlord to enter for any other reason, that provision is illegal and void. In addition, the landlord's right to inspect the premises or to show them to a prospective purchaser does not mean that he or she can do it twice every day; the tenant can limit inspections to reasonable frequency. Unless the lease provides that the tenant must give the landlord a key to their property, the landlord has no right to one. The fact that a lease allows the landlord a right to enter for certain purposes also does not mean that the landlord may enter a private residence at any time without an appointment.\n\nThe right of the landlord to enter if the tenant appears to have abandoned the premises sometimes causes a problem when tenants are moving out. The tenant may have moved out most of their furniture and intend to return to pick up the last few things and clean up the apartment before turning in the keys. If the landlord believes the tenant has vacated the premises, however, he or she may come in ahead of the tenant, remove the remaining property, and attempt to charge the tenant for the \"mess\" they left. To avoid this situation, tenants are encouraged to be clear with landlords about plans to vacate, and to do so in writing. In one documented case, a tenant came back from his vacation and found someone else living in his apartment, with his furniture stored in the cellar. He wasn't behind on his rent, but he had been away for a while, and the landlord concluded that he had abandoned the apartment. To preclude any perception of abandonment, a tenant who is going out of town may benefit from informing his or her landlord of the trip, preferably in writing. If the tenant is away for an extended time, does not pay the rent, and does not respond to inquiries from the landlord, a court may find the landlord justified in concluding that the tenant has abandoned the property.\n\nA landlord cannot try to evict a tenant, raise the rent, or change the terms of tenancy because the tenant has complained in writing to the landlord, or to any government agency, regarding conditions. The landlord also cannot retaliate in this fashion because a tenant has organized or joined a tenant union, or engaged in certain other protected activities. Within six months after a tenant has engaged in any of these protected activities, any act by the landlord of raising the rent, attempting eviction (except for non-payment), or making any change in any of the terms of tenancy is presumed to be a retaliation. This means that in any court proceeding, the burden will be on the landlord to prove that he or she is not retaliating against the tenant. In order to defeat a retaliation claim, a landlord must convince the court that he or she took the action for reasons independent of the tenant's protected action, and that he or she would have done the same thing at the same time even if the tenant hadn't engaged in the protected activity. If the landlord waits until six months after protected actions, retaliation may still be found, but the burden of proof is on the tenant.\n\nIf a landlord is found to be retaliating, he or she will not be able to evict the tenant, who may also be awarded damages from the landlord of one to three months' rent plus attorney's fees. The landlord also cannot willfully deprive the tenant of heat, hot water, gas, electricity, lights, water, or refrigeration service. Nor can the landlord lock out the tenant or remove him/her from their apartment without going through the proper court procedure. The tenant can ask the court to issue a restraining order, file a criminal complaint against the landlord, or sue him/her for money damages and attorney's fees. Because of these options for recourse, it may be to the tenant's advantage to complain about code violations in writing before the landlord issues a notice of an eviction or a rent increase. If a tenant attempts to claim retaliation, but did not complain about violations until after he or she received notice from the landlord, the tenant will be found to have no valid claim. The court will not find that the landlord was retaliating against the tenant for an action he or she had not yet taken.\n\nConsumer protection laws also provide some protection against landlord harassment in some states. One such statute is Chapter 93A of the Massachusetts General Laws, commonly called the \"Consumer Protection Law\". Like the Federal Trade Commission Act on which it is based, and similar \"baby FTC\" laws in other states, it prohibits the use of any unfair and deceptive acts and practices in the conduct of any trade or business. Housing rental is generally considered to be a trade or business, and the Massachusetts Attorney General has issued regulations which define unfair and deceptive acts or practices in the rental housing field. Practices defined as unfair include failure by the landlord to disclose, to a tenant or prospective tenant, any fact of the disclosure of which may have influenced the latter not to enter into the transaction. Also defined as an unfair practice is any violation of any law meant to protect consumers, and any act which is oppressive or otherwise unconscionable in any respect. While the Consumer Protection Law provides some protections for tenants. If a landlord is the owner-occupant of a two-family or three-family house and owns no other rental property, he or she is not considered to be engaged in a trade or business, and is not subject to this law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31648473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31648473", "title": "Malnutrition in Zimbabwe", "text": "Malnutrition in Zimbabwe\n\nZimbabwe, a country in southern Africa, is suffering widespread malnutrition and diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. \"One in four human beings is malnourished\" in Africa, but Zimbabwe is near the deep end with almost 12,000 children alone suffering from severe malnutrition (Turner 8). Zimbabweans suffer from lack of food, sustenance, and the politicization of food, but these can be fixed by the fortification of basic foods, the resolution of the political problems in Zimbabwe, and continuing aid from non-governmental organizations (NGOs).\n\n"}
{"id": "797883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=797883", "title": "Mealworm", "text": "Mealworm\n\nMealworms are the larval form of the mealworm beetle, \"Tenebrio molitor\", a species of darkling beetle. Like all holometabolic insects, they go through four life stages: egg, larva, pupa, and adult. Larvae typically measure about 2.5 cm or more, whereas adults are generally between 1.25 and 1.8 cm in length.\n\nThe mealworm beetle breeds prolifically. Mating is a three-step process: the male chasing the female, mounting her and inserting his aedeagus, and injecting a sperm packet. Within a few days the female burrows into soft ground and lays about 500 eggs.\n\nAfter four to 19 days the eggs hatch. Many predators target the eggs, including reptiles.\n\nDuring the larval stage, the mealworm feeds on vegetation and dead insects and molts between each larval stage, or instar (9 to 20 instars). After the final molt it becomes a pupa. The new pupa is whitish, and it turns brown over time. After 3 to 30 days, depending on environmental conditions such as temperature, it emerges as an adult beetle.\n\nA sex pheromone released by male mealworms has been identified. Inbreeding reduces the attractiveness of sexual pheromone signaling by male mealworms. Females are more attracted to the odors produced by outbred males than the odors produced by inbred males. The reduction of male signaling capability may be due to increased expression of homozygous deleterious recessive alleles caused by inbreeding.\n\n\"Tenebrio molitor\" is often used for biological research. Its relatively large size, ease of rearing and handling, and status as a non-model organism make it useful in proof of concept studies in the fields of basic biology, biochemistry, evolution, immunology and physiology.\n\nMealworms have generally been considered pests, because their larvae feed on stored grains. Mealworms probably originated in the Mediterranean region, but are now present in many areas of the world as a result of human trade and colonization. The oldest archaeological records of mealworms can be traced to Bronze Age Turkey. Records from the British Isles and northern Europe are from a later date, and mealworms are conspicuously absent from archaeological finds from ancient Egypt.\n\nMealworms are edible for humans, and are commonly consumed in a practice known as entomophagy. Mealworms have historically been consumed in many Asian countries, particularly in Southeast Asia. They are commonly found in food markets and sold as street food alongside other edible insects. Baked or fried mealworms have been marketed as a healthy snack food in recent history, though the consumption of mealworms goes back centuries. They may be easily reared on fresh oats, wheat bran or grain, with sliced potato, carrots, or apple as a moisture source. The small amount of space required to raise mealworms has made them popular in many parts of Southeast Asia.\n\nMealworms have been incorporated into tequila-flavored novelty candies. Mealworms are not traditionally served in tequila, and the \"tequila worm\" in certain mezcals is usually the larva of the moth \"Hypopta agavis\".\n\nMealworms are typically used as a pet food for captive reptiles, fish, and birds. They are also provided to wild birds in bird feeders, particularly during the nesting season. Mealworms are useful for their high protein content. They are also used as fishing bait.\n\nThey are commercially available in bulk and are typically available in containers with bran or oatmeal for food. Commercial growers incorporate a juvenile hormone into the feeding process to keep the mealworm in the larval stage and achieve an abnormal length of 2 cm or greater.\n\nMealworm larva contain significant nutrient content, a feature that has made them viable as food and feed. For every 100 grams of raw mealworm larva, 206 calories and anywhere from 14 to 25 grams of protein are contained. Mealworm larva contain levels of potassium, copper, sodium, selenium, iron and zinc that rival that of beef. Mealworms contain essential linoleic acids as well. They also have greater vitamin content by weight compared to beef, B12 not included.\n\nIn 2015, it was discovered that mealworms are capable of degrading polystyrene into usable organic matter at a rate of about 34-39 milligrams per day. Additionally, no difference was found between mealworms fed only styrofoam and mealworms fed conventional foods, during the one-month duration of the experiment. The mechanism behind this is currently unknown, and no attempts to commercialize this discovery have been made.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1365877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1365877", "title": "Mick the Miller", "text": "Mick the Miller\n\nMick the Miller (29 June 1926 – 6 May 1939) was a male brindle Greyhound. He is celebrated as the first great racing greyhound to compete in England (although he was born in Ireland). Despite a short three year racing career, his achievements were highly publicised around the world and by the end of his career he had become an icon in the sport. His achievements include winning nineteen races in a row, including the English Greyhound Derby on two successive occasions. He suffered an injury at Wimbledon Stadium whilst racing which broke the streak in 1931, and once recovered was beaten in the attempt to win a third Derby title. He went on to appear in films, and is still considered one of the greatest sporting heroes in the UK.\n\nMick, a male brindle Greyhound, was born in Killeigh, County Offaly, Ireland before the introduction of Greyhound track racing in Ireland, and before the sport became popular in Britain. The smallest of a litter of ten puppies, his father was a direct descendant of Master McGrath, a famous Irish Greyhound who won the Waterloo Cup on three occasions. Originally expected to be used for hare coursing, a deal was discussed with dog owner Moses Rebenschied to take Mick to America to compete in the Greyhound racing circuit. However, before the deal could go through a tornado struck St. Louis, Missouri, killing 27 of Rebenschied's Greyhounds when the roof was blown off their kennel, and a further four dogs died when a van driven by his son was overturned by the storm. In a letter from Rebenschied calling off the deal he stated his reason, \"I repeat, the hand of God is warning me against greyhounds.\"\n\nA Catholic priest, Father Martin Brophy, brought Mick to race in England, although nearly sold the dog as a puppy to another priest, Father Maurice Browne. Although the Catholic Church in Ireland had no issues with Greyhound racing, the Catholic Church in Great Britain at the time was against it, having published a pamphlet entitled \"Dog Racing\" which called it a \"threat to Sunday dinners\", and described gambling that \"the distribution of losses and dividends had an anti-social character because the poorest, the most unhappy, the physically and emotionally handicapped, are made to pay for the professionals and semi-professionals who get hold of intimate knowledge.\"\n\nHe made his debut at Shelbourne Park on 18 April 1928 winning the Punchestown Stakes. He raced five times during 1928, winning four times and equalled the 500 metres world record after recording 28.80 at Shelbourne. The day after competing in the Abercorn Cup final he suffered a serious illness and was diagnosed with distemper. He nearly died but was nursed back to health by the Shelbourne Park veterinary surgeon Arthur 'Doc' Callanan.\n\nHe reached the Easter Cup final at Shelbourne and won the Spring Cup final at Harold's Cross Stadium and National Cup final at Shelbourne before travelling to England for the first time. In a solo trial prior to the 1929 English Greyhound Derby on 25 July, Mick broke the track record, reducing his odds from an initial 25–1 to becoming the 4–7 favorite to win by the time of the final, despite still being new off the board from Ireland. He was housed at the kennels of Paddy McEllistrim for the duration of the Derby. In the first round, Mick pulled away down the back straight, beating Captured Half by eight lengths and setting a time of 29.82, a new world record over that length. Father Browne sold Mick for £800, plus any prize money that the dog would win on the night, which at the time was more than the cost of buying a house in nearby Shepherd's Bush. By 8:45pm, when the final took place, some 40,000 spectators were in the ground. The lineup was four dogs; in trap one was Beadsman at 20–1; trap two was Palatinus at 3–1; trap three was Entomb at 9–2, and finally Mick the Miller in trap four, wearing the black jacket. Palatinus made the best start, at the first bend both Mick and Entomb attempted to move inside to the rail, but Beadsman collided with both of them, sending all three dogs sprawling. The no–race klaxon went off, and the race had to be restarted. None of the dogs was allowed to leave the track with until the race was re–run at 9:15pm, the only comfort given to Mick on a particularly hot summer's evening was a handkerchief soaked in cold water.\n\nThe re–run began, with Palatinus again getting away first, however at the first corner, Mick pursued him around the first corner alone. Catching him down the back straight, Mick pulled away around the third bend going on to beat him by three lengths in a time of 29.96. Although Palatinus completed the first run through, his time was one fifth of a second slower than that made by Mick in the second. When villagers in his home town of Killeigh heard of his success, an impromptu bonfire party was held.\n\nAfter the Derby he went on to win the International at West Ham Stadium on 5 August and finished runner-up in the London Cup final on 26 November. He finished 1929 with a record of 26 wins from 32 races. He joined Wimbledon trainer Sidney Orton in December 1929 at the Burhill kennels in Hersham.\n\nHe started 1930 well by finishing runner-up in the Champion Stakes at Wimbledon on 1 January and then won the Spring Cup at Wembley on 22 March. He then won the Derby again in front of 50,000 spectators including King Alfonso XIII of Spain. His victory there was his eleventh in succession. Mick then won the Cesarewitch at West Ham and the Welsh Greyhound Derby at the Sloper Road Stadium, setting the world record again, this time at 29.55 seconds over . His run extended nineteen successive victories before he tore a shoulder muscle in a race at Wimbledon Stadium. During the run, he broke world records on four occasions and newspaper editors stopped using the headline of \"Wonder Dog\", instead replacing it with simply \"Invincible\". He finished the year winning 20 times from 23 races.\n\nA comeback was attempted in February 1931, again at Wimbledon, however Mick suffered a torn dewclaw in a trial, setting back his return until March when he won the Spring Cup again at Wembley breaking the track record in the final before he returned to White City with the aim of winning a third Derby.\n\nHe suffered shock defeats by Mick's Fancy in the eleventh heat of the 1931 English Greyhound Derby, and again by five lengths in the second round by a new Irish import, a dog called Ryland R who weighed over . Mick had still been favourite in that race, but for the first time in some 25 races, he was not odds on. Ryland R and Mick met again in the semi finals on 20 June, the second time in 48 races that Mick was not the favourite since coming over from Ireland. Coming out the first turn, Mick was fifth, but was bumped so wide that Ryland opened up a fifteen length lead over his at one point. However, Mick sped on, and overtook the other dogs until only Ryland remained. As they crossed the line, Ryland took the victory, but by only half a length. The Evening News stated that \"Mick has never run a better race\". However, this was the first time that Mick had ever lost three consecutive races, but at least qualified for the final.\n\nThe final took place on 27 June 1931, with 70,000 spectators attending to see Mick the Miller take on \"The Black Express\" Ryland R. The two dogs were both matched as joint favourites for the final at odds of 13–8. The other four dogs in the race were Golden Hammer, Mick's Fancy, Seldom Lad and Brunswick Bill. Just after 9pm, Ryland is out of the traps ahead of the others once again, with Mick in last position as they go around the first bend. Ryland led all the way until the final turn where Seldom Lad closed on him. The two dogs made contact and swung wide, the race steward spotted that Ryland had turned to snap at Seldom Lad and set off the no–race klaxon. The noise is drowned out by the crowd as Mick the Miller is suddenly coming through the pack. Despite being bumped earlier in the race, he found the inside rail and moved up past the others, beating Golden Hammer by a head at the line. The announcer repeats that it is a no race to the disappointment of the crowd. Ryland R was disqualified for \"nosing and impeding\" another dog. Phiddy Kempton, Mick's owner at the time, broke down into tears, \"Mick has won! My darling Mick has won!\" he cried. A re–run was ordered for 9:55pm, while the crowd began to get unruly. Kempton was refusing to allow Mick to compete in the re–run, adamant he had already run the Derby. The directors of the Greyhound Racing Association were in attendance, and knowing the effect that both the two favourites not running in the final of the Derby would mean for the sport, convinced Kempton to run Mick.\n\nThe race was re–run, and the tired Mick was never close to placing. He slipped at the first bend whilst attempting to take the inside. Seldom Lad overtook Golden Hammer and won the race unchallenged, with Mick finishing in fourth place. Mick's time in the voided race was 29.89 seconds, some two and a half lengths faster than Seldom Lad's time in the second. Mick lost a fourth race in a row for the first time ever, and the Derby trophy was awarded to Seldom Lad's owners amid a host of boos from the crowd.\n\nThe circumstances of the third derby changed the public perception of Mick. He was no longer simply a racing Greyhound, he had become a public icon and became the embodiment of the sport at an international level. The \"Greyhound Mirror and Gazette\" proclaimed of Mick, \"Greyhound racing is still in its infancy, but already it has produced a popular favourite as idolised as any horse, cinema star, footballer or boxer in history.\" He was featured in articles around the world including \"Welt im Bild\" (Germany), the \"Herald Sun\" (Australia) and \"The American Weekly\" (USA). Mick continued to race for most of the rest of the year, with his final race being the St Leger Stakes in October at what was then called the Empire Stadium, winning the race whilst watched by 40,000 spectators. This race was later described as the greatest race ever staged at Wembley, which would go on to hold Greyhound racing until 1998 prior to its demolition to make room for the new Wembley Stadium. In qualifying for the final of that race, he beat Seldom Lad on three occasions. His retirement was announced in December 1931.\n\nMick spent the next two years at stud with Jack Masters at Mill Farm, near Dereham in Norfolk, and was the most expensive dog advertised at stud demanding 50 guineas. He was a special guest at the opening of Catford Stadium on 30 July 1932. He appeared with Flanagan and Allen in the 1934 movie \"Wild Boy\". Although the \"Evening News\" predicted that it would be the \"one of the most popular British films of the year\", no box office records were kept and the only known copy is in the possession of the British Film Institute. It was reported as being badly received by critics and ran massively over budget.\n\nMick died on 6 May 1939, a few weeks short of his thirteenth birthday, having amassed around £20,000 in stud fees, from appearances in films, and in prize money. After his death he was stuffed and given by his last owner, A.H. Kempton, to the Natural History Museum in London; he has since been moved to the Natural History Museum at Tring in Hertfordshire where he is still on public view. He stands in cabinet 58 of the household dogs section at the museum in an airtight case filled with an insecticide called Vapona in order to prevent any damage by insects.\n\nMick the Miller is still credited as popularising Greyhound racing in Great Britain after his back to back English Greyhound Derby victories in 1929 and 1930. An enclosure is named after Mick at Wimbledon Stadium. Mick remained the only dog to win two Derby titles until 1973, when Patricia's Hope won her second title. Royal Doulton produced a limited edition run of Mick the Miller figurines in the 1990s. A memorial to Mick was built on the village green of his birthplace in Killeigh, Co. Offaly. The statue was created by Northern Irish artist Liz O'Kane, and was unveiled by the Taoiseach of Ireland, Brian Cowen.\n\nIn 2007, journalist Jon Henderson drew up his list of 100 top British sportsman for his book \"Best of British: Hendo's Sporting Heroes\". Mick the Miller was included in the list as the only Greyhound, with the only other animal being multi–time Grand National winner Red Rum. He is still referred to as the world's most famous Greyhound, having won 51 of the 68 races he was entered into and is the only dog to have won the treble of the Derby, The Cesarewitch and The St Leger - Greyhounds.\n\nMick The Miller ran a total of 81 races of which he won 61: 15 wins from 20 in Ireland and 46 wins from 61 in England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24574814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24574814", "title": "Models of collaborative tagging", "text": "Models of collaborative tagging\n\nIt has been argued that social tagging or collaborative tagging systems can provide navigational cues or \"way-finders\" for other users to explore information. The notion is that, given that social tags are labels that users create to represent topics extracted from Web documents, interpretation of these tags should allow other users to predict contents of different documents efficiently. Social tags are arguably more important in exploratory search, in which the users may engage in iterative cycles of goal refinement and exploration of new information (as opposed to simple fact-retrievals), and interpretation of information contents by others will provide useful cues for people to discover topics that are relevant. \nOne significant challenge that arises in social tagging systems is the rapid increase in the number and diversity of the tags. As opposed to structured annotation systems, tags provide users an unstructured, open-ended mechanism to annotate and organize web-content. As users are free to create any tag to describe any resource, it leads to what is referred to as the vocabulary problem. Because users may use different words to describe the same document or extract different topics from the same document based on their own background knowledge, the lack of a top-down mediation may lead to an increase in the use of incoherent tags to represent the information resources in the system. In other words, the inherent \"unstructuredness\" of social tags may hinder their potential as navigational cues for searchers because the diversities of users and motivation may lead to diminishing tag-topic relations as the system grows. However, a number of studies have shown that structures do emerge at the semantic level – indicating that there are cohesive forces that are driving the emergent structures in a social tagging system.\n\nJust like any social phenomena, behavioral patterns in social tagging systems can be characterized by either a descriptive or predictive model. While descriptive models ask the question of \"what\", predictive models go deeper to also ask the question of \"why\" by attempting to provide explanations to the aggregate behavioral patterns. While there may be no general agreement on what an acceptable explanation should be like, many believe that a good explanation should have certain level of predictive accuracy. Descriptive models of social tagging typically are not concerned with explaining the actions of single individuals but describing the patterns that emerge as individual behavior is aggregated in a large social information system. Predictive models, however, attempt to explain aggregate patterns by analyzing how individuals interact and link to each other in ways that bring about similar or different emergent patterns of social behavior. In particular, a mechanism-based predictive model assumes a certain set of rule that individuals interact with each other, and understand how these interactions could produce aggregate patterns as observed and characterized by descriptive models. Predictive models can therefore provide explanations to why different system characteristics may lead to different aggregate patterns, and can therefore potentially provide information on how systems should be designed to achieve different social purposes.\n\nFor most tagging systems the total number of tags in the collective vocabulary is much less than the total number of objects being tagged. Given this multiplicity of tags to documents, a question remains: how effective are the tags at isolating any single document? Naively, if we specify a single tag in this system we would uniquely identify lots of documents – thus the answer to our question is \"not very well!\". However this method carries a faulty assumption; not every document is equal. Some documents are more popular and important than others, and this importance is conveyed by the number bookmarks per document. Thus, we can reformulate the above question to be: how well does the mapping of tags to documents retain about the distribution of the documents? Information theory provides a natural framework to understand the amount of shared information between two random variables. The conditional entropy measures the amount of entropy remaining in one random variable when we know the value of a second random variable. Work done by Chi and Mytkowicz show that the entropy of documents conditional on tags, H(D|T), is increasing rapidly. What this means is that, even after knowing completely the value of a tag, the entropy of the set of documents is increasing over time. Conditional Entropy asks the question: \"Given that I know a set of tags, how much uncertainty regarding the document set that I was referencing with those tags remains?\" The fact that this curve is strictly increasing suggests that the specificity of any given tag is decreasing. That is to say, as a navigation aid, tags are becoming harder and harder to use. We are moving closer and closer to the proverbial \"needle in a haystack\" where any single tag references too many documents to be considered useful. \n\nAnother way to look at the data is to think about mutual information, which is a measure of independence between the two variables. Full independence is reached when I(D;T) = 0. Chi and Mytkowicz research on delicious social tagging data show that as a measure of usefulness of the tags and their encoding, there is a worsening trend in the ability of users to specify and find tags and documents when they are engaged in simple fact retrieval. This suggests that we need to build search and recommendation systems that help users sift through resources in social tagging systems, especially when we are engaged in more than simple fact retrieval as characterized by the information theory. In fact, although the number of documents associated with any given tag is increasing, there are many ways contextual information can help users to look for relevant information. This is in fact one of the major weakness of the simple information theory in explaining usefulness of tags – it ignores the fact that humans can extract meanings from a set of tags assigned to a document, and this semantic extraction process is exactly the reason why humans are able to communicate efficiently even though the size of our vocabulary is increasing ever since language was developed. For example, the work by Cattuto et al. (2007), published in PNAS, show that while the number of tags are increasing, the general growth pattern is scale-free – the general distribution of tag-tag co-occurrences follows a power-law. Cattuto also finds that the characteristics of this scale-free distribution are dependent on the semantics of the tag – tags that are semantically general (e.g., blogs) tend to co-occur with many tags, while semantically narrow tags (e.g., Ajax) tend to co-occur with few number of tags across a wide set of documents in a social tagging system. What this means is that the assumption of the information theory approach is too simple – when the semantics of the set of tags assigned to documents are taken into account, the predictive value of tags on contents of documents are relatively stable. This finding is important for development of recommender systems – discovering these higher level semantic patterns is important in helping people to find relevant information (also see semantic imitation model below).\n\nDespite this potential vocabulary problem, recent research has found that at the aggregate level, tagging behavior seemed relatively stable and that the tag choice proportions seemed to be converging rather than diverging. While these observations provided evidence against the proposed vocabulary problem, they also triggered a series of research investigating how and why tag proportions tended to converge over time. \n\nOne explanation for the stability was that there was an inherent propensity for users to \"imitate\" word use of others as they create tags. This propensity may act as a form of social cohesion that fosters the coherence of tag-topic relations in the system, and leads to stability in the system. Golder and Huberman showed that the stochastic urn model by Eggenberger and Pólya was useful in explaining how simple imitation behavior at the individual level could explain the converging usage patterns of tags. Specifically, convergence of tag choices was simulated by a process in which a colored ball was randomly selected from an urn and was replaced in the urn along with an additional ball of the same color, simulating the probabilistic nature of tag reuse. The simple model, however, does not explain why certain tags would to be \"imitated\" more often than others, and therefore cannot provide a realistic mechanism for tag choices and how social tags could be utilized as navigational cues during exploratory search, not to mention the obviously over-simplified representation of individual users by balls in an urn.\n\nOther research, using data from the social bookmarking website Del.icio.us, has shown that collaborative tagging systems exhibit a form of complex systems (or self-organizing) dynamics. Furthermore, although there is no central controlled vocabulary to constrain the actions of individual users, the distributions of tags that describe different resources has been shown to converge over time to a stable power law distributions. Once such stable distributions form, examining the correlations between different tags can be used to construct simple folksonomy graphs, which can be efficiently partitioned to obtain a form of community or shared vocabularies. Such vocabularies can be seen as emerging from the decentralised actions of many users, as a form of crowdsourcing.\n\nThe memory-based Yule-Simon (MBYS) model of Cattuto attempted to explain tag choices by a stochastic process. They found that the temporal order of tag assignment influences users' tag choices. Similar to the stochastic urn model, the MBYS model assumed that at each time step a tag would be randomly sampled: with probability p the sampled tag was new, and with probability 1-p the sampled tag was copied from existing tags. When copying, the probability of selecting a tag was assumed to decay with time, and this decay function was found to follow a power law distribution. Thus, tags that were recently used had a higher probability of being reused than those used in the past. One major finding by Cattuto et al. was that semantically general tags (e.g., \"blog\") tended to co-occur more frequently with other tags than semantically narrower tags (e.g., \"ajax\"), and this difference could be captured by the decay function of tag reuse in their model. Specifically, they found that a slower decay parameter (when the tag is reused more often) could explain the phenomenon that semantically general tags tended to co-occur with a larger set of tags. In other words, they argued that the \"semantic breadth\" of a tag could be modeled by a memory decay function, which could lead to different emergent behavioral patterns in a tagging system.\n\nDescriptive models mentioned above were based on analyses of word-word relations as revealed by the various statistical structures in the organization of tags (e.g., how likely one tag would co-occur with other tags or how likely each tag was reused over time). These models are therefore descriptive models at the aggregate level, and have little to offer about predictions at the level of interface interactions and cognitive processes of individual. \nRather than imitating other users at the word level, one possible explanation for this kind of social cohesion could be grounded on the natural tendency for people to process tags at the semantic level, and it was at this level of processing that most imitation occurred. This explanation was supported by research in the area of reading comprehension, which showed that people tended to be influenced by meanings of words, rather than the words themselves during comprehension. Assuming that background knowledge of people in the same culture tend to have shared structures (e.g., using similar vocabularies and their corresponding meanings in order to conform and communicate with each), users of the same social tagging system may also share similar semantic representations of words and concepts, even when the use of tags may vary across individuals at the word level. In other words, we argued that part of the reason for the stability of social tagging systems can be attributed to the shared semantic representations among the users, such that users may have relatively stable and coherent interpretation of information contents and tags as they interact with the system. Based on this assumption, the semantic imitation model predicts how different semantic representations may lead to differences in individual tag choices and eventually different emergent properties at the aggregate behavioral level. The model also predicts that the folksonomies (i.e., knowledge structures) in the system reflect the shared semantic representations of the users.\n\nSemantic imitation has important implication to the general vocabulary problem (see work by, e.g., Susan Dumais) in information retrieval and human-computer interaction – the creation of large number of diverse tags to describe the same set of information resource. The finding that semantic imitation occurs implies that the unit of communication among users is more likely at the semantic level, not at the word level. Thus, although there may not be strong coherence in the choice of words in describing a resource, at the semantic level there seems to be a stronger coherence force that guides the convergence of descriptive indices. This is in sharp contrast to conclusions derived based on a purely information-theoretical approach, which assumes that humans search and evaluation information at the word level. Instead, the process of semantic imitation in social tagging implies that the information-theoretic approach is at most incomplete, as it does not take into account the basic unit of human information processing. Similar to the fact that human communication occurs at the semantic level, the fact that people may use different words or syntax does not affect the effectiveness of communication, so long as the underlying \"common ground\" between the two persons is the same. In the social tagging case, so long as users share similar understanding of the contents of the information resources, the fact that the information value of tag-document decreases (that humans have more words in their languages) do not imply that it will always be harder to find relevant information (similarly, the fact that there are more words in our languages does not mean that our communication becomes less effective). However, it does point to the notion that one needs to effectively present these semantic structures in the information system so that people can effectively interpret the semantics of the tagged documents. Intelligent techniques based on statistical models of language such as latent semantic analysis, probabilistic topics model, etc. are promising aspects that will overcome this vocabulary problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "46967422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46967422", "title": "Murder of Jagendra Singh", "text": "Murder of Jagendra Singh\n\nMurder of Jagendra Singh refers to the killing of a journalist in India by setting him on fire on 1 June. Jagendra Singh was an Indian journalist from Shahjahanpur, Uttar Pradesh. He died on 8 June 2015 from burn injuries. He had allegedly been set on fire on 1 June 2015 by some local policemen and criminals allegedly under the directions of Uttar Pradesh Minister Rammurti Singh Verma. Singh had worked for Hindi language media for 15 years.\n\nSingh used to run a Facebook page called \"Shahjahanpur Samachar\". It had a number of followers and Singh had written posts about Verma's alleged links to corruption and illegal mining. But, he had not backed the claims by posting evidence.\n\nOn 4 May 2015, Rammurti Verma and some of his henchmen allegedly had raped a female Anganwadi worker. She later told a local court that a First Information Report (FIR) was being refused to be filed against Ram Murti Verma. Jagendra Singh had taken up the news. Verma had claimed that it was a political ploy by his rivals and Singh to plant the fake case against him. On 22 May 2015, Singh wrote a post saying that he was being harassed by policemen, criminals, politicians and that he feared that he might be killed by Verma.\n\nOn 1 June 2015, according to his family members, a group of policemen and goons came in two cars in late afternoon and barged into his house in Shahjahanpur. Initially, they got into an argument with him reminding him that he had been repeatedly told not to write anything against Verma. Then they pinned him down, poured petrol on him and set him on fire. He was taken to the district hospital in Shahjahanpur initially. Later, he was shifted to King George's Medical University in Lucknow where he died.\n\nInitially, the Superintendent of Police of Shahjahanpur, Babloo Kumar, had claimed that Singh was not a journalist, and had committed suicide. The police had also said he had an ongoing investigation against him and they had gone to arrest him when he attempted suicide. They said they knocked on the door and waited. When they saw smoke coming out of a ventilation point, they entered and found Singh on fire. They claimed that they put out the fire and took him to the hospital. Later, the police said they were investigating the case.\n\nIn his dying declaration, Singh held Verma responsible for the attack and added that another attempt had been made on his life on 28 April 2015. He died of his injuries in a Lucknow hospital on 8 June. Soon afterwards, a video appeared on the internet which a badly burned Singh lying on his hospital bed talking to the camera. He could be heard saying, \"Why did they have to burn me? If the ministers and his goondas had a grudge, they could have beaten me instead of pouring kerosene and burning me.\"\n\nFollowing Singh's death, his son Raghvendra Singh filed a police case. A FIR was filed against minister Ram Murti Verma, a police inspector Prakash Rai of Kotwali police station and four others. They were charged under Sections 302 (murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.\n\nOn 13 June 2015, 5 policemen suspected to be involved in the case were suspended, among them was Sri Prakash Rai. On 24 June 2015, \"The Hindu\" newspaper reported that according to its sources the forensic report says that the burns were self-inflicted.\n\nThe Chairman of the Press Council of India, Chandramauli Kumar Prasad, on 10 June called it an attack on the freedom of press and asked the state government to form a Special Investigative Team (SIT) consisting of officers of good character to handle the case.\n\nAmnesty International urged the Government of Uttar Pradesh to start an independent inquiry into the case.\n\nOn 12 June 2015, Ram Gopal Yadav, the General Secretary of Samajwadi Party to which the prime accused belonged, told media persons that Verma will not be removed from state cabinet. He said a FIR was not enough proof to take such action.\n\nOn 14 June 2015, the family members of the journalist started an indefinite dharna to demand for justice. They also told reporters that they were getting threats and were being offered hush money to withdraw the case. On 22 June 2015, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav met the family and promised them an ex-gratia of lakhs for the journalist's family. On 23 June, the family ended the dharna.\n\n"}
{"id": "13590511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13590511", "title": "Mycoplasma laboratorium", "text": "Mycoplasma laboratorium\n\nMycoplasma laboratorium is a designed, partially synthetic species of bacterium derived from the genome of \"Mycoplasma genitalium\". This effort in synthetic biology is being undertaken at the J. Craig Venter Institute by a team of approximately 20 scientists headed by Nobel laureate Hamilton Smith and including DNA researcher Craig Venter and microbiologist Clyde A. Hutchison III. \"Mycoplasma genitalium\" was chosen as it was the species with the smallest number of genes known at that time.\n\nOn May 21, 2010, \"Science\" reported that the Venter group had successfully synthesized the genome of the bacterium \"Mycoplasma mycoides\" from a computer record and transplanted it into an existing cell of \"Mycoplasma capricolum\" that had its DNA removed. The team used \"M. mycoides\" instead of \"M. genitalium\" because it grew faster. The new bacterium was viable—that is, capable of replicating billions of times—but not, strictly speaking, a truly synthetic life form.. \n\nIt is estimated that the synthetic genome cost US$40 million and 200 man-years to produce. Despite the controversy, Venter's company Synthetic Genomics has secured over $110 million in investment capital and inked a $300 million deal with Exxon Mobil to design algae for diesel fuel.\n\n\"Mycoplasma genitalium\" was chosen as it was the species with the smallest number of genes known at that time.\n\n\"Mycoplasma\" is a genus of bacteria of the class Mollicutes in the division Tenericutes, characterised by the lack of a cell wall (making it Gram negative) due to its parasitic or commensal lifestyle.\nIn molecular biology, the genus has received much attention, both for being a notoriously difficult-to-eradicate (immune to beta-lactam and other antibiotics) contaminant in mammalian cell cultures, and for its potential uses as a model organism: the second published complete bacterial genome sequence was that of \"Mycoplasma genitalium\", which has one of the smallest genomes of any free-living (non-parasitic) organism. The \"M. pneumoniae\" genome sequence was published soon afterward and was the first genome sequence determined by primer walking of a cosmid library instead of the whole-genome shotgun method. Consequently, this species was chosen as a model for the minimal cell project, catalog the entire protein content of a cell.\n\n\"Pelagibacter ubique\" (an α-proteobacterium of the order Rickettsiales) has the smallest known genome (1,308,759 base pairs) of any free living organism and is one of the smallest self-replicating cells known. It is possibly the most numerous bacterium in the world (perhaps 10 individual cells) and, along with other members of the SAR11 clade, are estimated to make up between a quarter and a half of all bacterial or archaeal cells in the ocean. However, this species was identified only in 2002 by rRNA sequences and was fully sequenced in 2005, being an extremely hard to cultivate species which does not reach a high growth density,\nAdditionally, several newly discovered species have fewer genes than \"M. genitalium\", but many essential genes that are missing in \"Hodgkinia cicadicola\", \"Sulcia muelleri\", \"Baumannia cicadellinicola\" (symbionts of cicadas) and \"Carsonella ruddi\" (symbiote of hackberry petiole gall psyllid, \"Pachypsylla venusta\") may be encoded in the host nucleus as these endosymbionts are acquiring an organelle-like status in a similar way to mitochondria and chloroplasts.\n\nThe team started with the bacterium \"M. genitalium\", an obligate intracellular parasite whose genome consists of 482 genes comprising 582,970 base pairs, arranged on one circular chromosome (the smallest genome of any known natural organism that can be grown in free culture). They then systematically removed genes to find a minimal set of 382 genes that can sustain life. This effort was also known as the Minimal Genome Project.\n\nThe team intends to synthesize chromosome DNA sequences consisting of these 382 genes. Once a version of the minimal 382-gene chromosome has been synthesized, it is intended to be transplanted into a \"M. genitalium\" cell to create Mycoplasma laboratorium.\n\nThe resulting Mycoplasma laboratorium bacterium is expected to be able to replicate itself with its man-made DNA, making it the most synthetic organism to date, although the molecular machinery and chemical environment that would allow it to replicate would not be synthetic.\n\nIn December 2003, the team had reported a fast method of synthesizing a genome from scratch, producing the 5386-base genome of the bacteriophage Phi X 174 in about two weeks. However, the genome of Mycoplasma laboratorium is about 50 times larger. In January 2008, the team reported to have synthesized the complete 582,970 base pair chromosome of \"M. genitalium\", with small modifications so that it won't be infectious and can be distinguished from the wild type. They named this genome \"Mycoplasma genitalium JCVI-1.0\". The team had also demonstrated the process of transplanting a (non-synthetic) genome from one \"Mycoplasma\" species to another in June 2007. In May 2010 they showed that they were able to synthesize the 1,078,809 base pair genome of \"Mycoplasma mycoides\" from scratch and transplant it into a \"Mycoplasma capricolum\" cell; the new genome then took over the cell and the new organism multiplied. The new organism was nicknamed \"Synthia\".\n\nVenter hopes to eventually synthesize bacteria to manufacture hydrogen and biofuels, and also to absorb carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. George M. Church, another pioneer in synthetic biology, holds that \"E. coli\" is a more efficient organism than \"M. genitalium\" and that creating a fully synthetic genome is not necessary and too costly for such tasks; he points out that synthetic genes have already been incorporated into \"E.coli\" to perform some of the above tasks.\n\nOn June 28, 2007, a team at the J. Craig Venter Institute published an article in \"Science Express\", saying that they had successfully transplanted the natural DNA from a \"Mycoplasma mycoides\" bacterium into a \"Mycoplasma capricolum\" cell, creating a bacterium which behaved like a \"M. mycoides\".\n\nOn Oct 6, 2007, Craig Venter announced in an interview with UK's \"The Guardian\" newspaper that the same team had synthesized a modified version of the single chromosome of \"Mycoplasma genitalium\" chemically. The chromosome was modified to eliminate all genes which tests in live bacteria had shown to be unnecessary. The next planned step in this \"minimal genome project\" is to transplant the synthesized minimal genome into a bacterial cell with its old DNA removed; the resulting bacterium will be called Mycoplasma laboratorium. The next day the Canadian bioethics group, ETC Group issued a statement through their representative, Pat Mooney, saying Venter's \"creation\" was \"a chassis on which you could build almost anything\". The synthesized genome had not yet been transplanted into a working cell.\n\nOn May 21, 2010, \"Science\" reported that the Venter group had successfully synthesized the genome of the bacterium \"Mycoplasma mycoides\" from a computer record, and transplanted the synthesized genome into the existing cell of a \"Mycoplasma capricolum\" bacterium that had had its DNA removed. The \"synthetic\" bacterium was viable, i.e. capable of replicating billions of times. The team had originally planned to use the \"M. genitalium\" bacterium they had previously been working with, but switched to \"M. mycoides\" because the latter bacterium grows much faster, which translated into quicker experiments. They have also shown that the natural genome of \"M. mycoides\" can be transplanted but has yet to show that the same could be done for \"M. genitalium\". Venter describes it as \"the first species... to have its parents be a computer\". The transformed bacterium is dubbed \"Synthia\" by ETC. A Venter spokesperson has declined to confirm any breakthrough at the time of this writing, likely because similar genetic introduction techniques such as transfection, transformation, transduction and protofection have been a standard research practice for many years.\n\nNow that the technique has been proven to work with the \"M. mycoides\" genome, the next project is presumably to go back to the minimized \"M. genitalium\" and transplant it into a cell to create the previously mentioned Mycoplasma laboratorium.\n\nThe creation of a new synthetic bacterium was announced in \"Science\" on March 25, 2016. It has only 473 genes, the fewest genes of any freely living organism. \nThis fast growing new cell, called Syn 3.0, was created by transplanting the genome of Mycoplasma mycoides, with all the unessential DNA removed, into a Mycoplasma capricolum, which had been emptied of its own DNA.\n\nM. genitalium was not used because it reproduces too slowly.\n\nIn order to propagate a synthetic genome, the technique to transplant an intact whole bacterial genome into another had to be developed.\nOswald Avery's pioneering experiments in the 1940s showed that some bacteria could take up naked DNA, and with the advent of molecular cloning techniques DNA elements could be transformed into competent cells, typically cloning vectors, around 5-20 kbp long, and even bacterial artificial chromosomes can be maintained.\nIn 2007, Venter's team reported that they had managed to transfer the chromosome of the species \"Mycoplasma mycoides\" to \"Mycoplasma capricolum\" by means of:\n\nThe term transformation is used to refer to insertion of a vector into a bacterial cell (by electroporation or heatshock). Here, transplantation is used akin to nuclear transplantation.\n\nThe switch from \"M. genitalium\" to \"M. mycoides\" was spurred due to the faster growth of the latter.\n\nIt is possible to create DNA sequences with the use of chemicals (oligonucleotide synthesis) which is achieved by successive rounds of deprotection and coupling of protected phosphoramidite nucleotides with geometrically decreasing yields to length, making sequences longer than 1000 base-pairs unfeasible. For longer sequences, DNA ligation is required. In 2008 Venter's group published a paper showing that they had managed to create a synthetic genome (a copy of \"M. mycoides\" sequence CP001621) by means of a hierarchical strategy:\n\nIn 2010, using the methods described above, Venter and colleagues created a strain of Mycoplasma mycoides called JCVI-syn1.0 with a synthetic genome. Initially the synthetic construct did not work, so to pinpoint the error—which caused a delay of 3 months in the whole project—a series of semi-synthetic constructs were created. Given the fact that the natural genome worked, the cause of the failed growth was an frameshift mutation in DnaA, a replication initiation factor, which, once corrected, worked and was verified.\n\nThe construction of a cell with a synthetic genome was done to test the methodology—allowing more modified genomes to be created in the future. To minimize sources of failure, the genome was created using a natural genome as a template. Due to the large size of a genome, apart from the elements required for propagation in yeast and residues from restriction sites, several differences are present in \"Mycoplasma mycoides\" JCVI-syn1.0 notably an \"E.coli\" transposon IS1 (an infection from the 10kb stage) and an 85bp duplication.\n\nHowever, the project has received heavy criticism as it claims to have created a synthetic organism. This claim arises from the fact that the genome was synthesized chemically in many pieces (a synthetic method), joined together by means of molecular biological techniques (an artificial method), and transplanted into the cytoplasm of a natural cell (after a few generations, though, the original protein content is undetectable).\nThe two species used as donor and recipient are of the same genus as the more distant two species are, the less the correct protein interactions are maintained, such as binding factors and binding sites, which mutate together (epistasis). Consequently, Paul Keim (a molecular geneticist at Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff) notes that \"there are great challenges ahead before genetic engineers can mix match, and fully design an organism's genome from scratch\" due to this issue.\nDNA is the template for protein construction and requires proteins as helper molecules to do so, a chicken-and-egg conundrum solved by the RNA world hypothesis, consequently synthetic naked DNA would require several proteins to create a viable cell. In 2000 and 2002 teams synthesized replicating hepatitis C virus (about 9600 nucleotides long) and poliovirus (about 7500 nucleotides long), Viruses, however, replicate by utilising host protein expression machinery. Furthermore, whereas DNA can easily be replicated (using DNA polymerase), transcribed (using RNA polymerase), and translated (using ribosomes and many other factors)—all \"in vitro\", such reactions, so far, use cell extracts and most components have not been synthesized de novo—that is from inorganic or synthetically made organic chemicals only.\n\nA much publicised feature of the Mycoplasma laboratorium is the presence of watermark sequences as an ultimate proof of the achievement and as a publicity stunt—similar to the tradition of chip art, inscriptions on unused portions of microchips visible only by electron microscopy. The 4 watermarks (present in figure 1 in supplementary material of ) are coded messages in the form of DNA base pairs, of 1246, 1081, 1109 and 1222 base pairs respectively, in natural peptides the 4 nucleotides encode in sets of 3 the 20 natural amino acids by means of the standard genetic code. Each amino acid \"by convention\" is represented by a letter, but in nature there is nothing which ties alanine, a molecule, to the Latin letter A, a vowel, so this convention was disregarded in the latter watermarks. In the minimal genome organism the watermark were encoded as amino acids, with V as U, both in reference to Latin inscriptions and the lack of a standard amino acid for U containing the names of the researchers:\n(VENTERINSTITVTE, CRAIGVENTER, HAMSMITH, CINDIANDCLYDE, GLASSANDCLYDE). In the synthetic organism, instead the Latin alphabet—which in English has 26 letters, which is covered only in base 4 with 3 or more digits—was encoded by an undisclosed encoding. The encoding is fixed and 3 digits make an uppercase letter or symbol, possibly randomly allocated (not table, frequency or keyboard order). The content of the watermarks is as follows:\n\nThe main controversy from the project is the undue amount of publicity it received from the press due to Venter's showmanship, to the degree that Jay Keasling, a pioneering synthetic biologist and founder of Amyris says \"The only regulation we need is of my colleague's mouth\".\n\nDespite the funding for practical applications, as stressed by George M. Church, one of the main players in the field of synthetic biology, a few changes are required to obtain useful organisms now, such as biofuel production or bioremediation. However, speculation about the distant future's possible applications is rife.\nVenter himself is prone to such speculations, having asked for example, \"What if we can make algae taste like beef?\" If it were possible to create a synthetic cell without the use of preexisting recipient cells, however, many applications would become achievable which would be otherwise unattainable, such as a completely overhauled bacterium that works in a logically controlled way—removing what has been described as 'evolutionary messiness'—with lower mutation rates, categorical gene arrangement (colinearity), the possibility of adding novel nucleotides to increase encoding (a feat achieved in vitro (PCR)); or with a completely novel genetic code, such as has been achieved by experiments in which a few additional non-canonical amino acids were added.\n\nThe J. Craig Venter Institute filed patents for the Mycoplasma laboratorium genome (the \"minimal bacterial genome\") in the U.S. and internationally in 2006. This extension of the domain of biological patents is being challenged by the watchdog organization Action Group on Erosion, Technology and Concentration.\n\nIn 2016, the Venter Institute used genes from JCVI-syn1.0 to synthesize an even smaller genome they call JCVI-syn3.0, that contains 531,560 base pairs and 473 genes. Originally in 1996, after comparing \"M. genitalium\" with another small bacterium \"Haemophilus influenza\", Arcady Mushegian and Eugene Koonin had proposed that there might be a common set of 256 genes which could be a minimal set of genes needed for viability. In this new organism, the number of genes can only be pared down to 473, 149 of which whose functions are completely unknown. The organism with the smallest known set of genes is \"Nasuia deltocephalinicola\", which is an obligate symbiont that cannot survive outside its host, has only 137 genes with a genome size of 112 kb, but the minimal genome for any free-living organism would be different depending on its environment.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2010, a team at the Hungarian Academy of Science created a strain of \"Escherichia coli\" called MDS42, which is now sold by Scarab Genomics of Madison, WI under the name of \"Clean Genome. E.coli\", where 15% of the genome of the parental strain (E. coli K-12 MG1655 ) were removed to aid in molecular biology efficiency, removing IS elements, pseudogenes and phages, resulting in better maintenance of plasmid-encoded toxic genes, which are often inactivated by transposons. Biochemistry and replication machinery were not altered.\n\n"}
{"id": "59209028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59209028", "title": "Non-invasive cerebellar stimulation", "text": "Non-invasive cerebellar stimulation\n\nNon-invasive cerebellar stimulation is the application of non-invasive neurostimulation techniques on the cerebellum to modify its electrical activity. Techniques such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) or transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can be used. The cerebellum is a high potential target for neuromodulation of neurological and psychiatric disorders due to the high density of neurons in its superficial layer, its electrical properties, and its participation in numerous closed-loop circuits involved in motor, cognitive, and emotional functions.\n\nCerebellar TMS is a relatively new field that is undergoing experimental research. There is yet no evidence of the therapeutic effects of it.\n\n"}
{"id": "36763756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36763756", "title": "PanCam", "text": "PanCam\n\nThe PanCam (Panoramic Camera) assembly is a set of two wide angle cameras for multi-spectral stereoscopic panoramic imaging, and a high resolution camera for colour imaging that has been designed to search for textural information or shapes that can be related to the presence of microorganisms on Mars. This camera assembly is part of the science payload on board the European Space Agency ExoMars rover, tasked to search for biosignatures and biomarkers on Mars. The rover is planned to be launched in July 2020 and land on Mars in March 2021.\n\nThis instrument will provide stereo multispectral images, of the terrain nearby. PanCam are the \"eyes\" of the rover and its primary navigation system. PanCam will also provide the geological context of the sites being explored and help support the selection of the best sites to carry out exobiology studies, as well as assist in some aspect of atmospheric studies. This system will also monitor the sample from the drill before it is crushed inside the rover, where the analytical instruments will perform a detailed chemical analysis.\n\nThe Principal Investigator is Andrew Coates of the University College London in United Kingdom.\n\nPanCam design includes the following major components:\n\n"}
{"id": "6009110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6009110", "title": "Pando of Capua", "text": "Pando of Capua\n\nPando the Rapacious (; died 862 or 863) was the second son of Landulf I of Capua and brother of Lando I. When his father died (843), Lando succeeded to the countship, but Pando and their younger brother Landulf were associated as co-rulers (with no real power). In fact, he went to Salerno, where he became a \"marepaphias\" (or \"marepahissatum\"/\"marepahis\", a Byzantine function).\n\nOn Lando's death, his son, Lando II succeeded him, but Pando deposed him (861) and sent him to govern Caiazzo, taking up the countship of Capua and declaring himself independent from the Prince of Salerno (862). He did not reign for long, however, and his reign was spent mostly in war for his usurped throne; wars in which he was \"rapacious\". He destroyed the city of Caserta (c.863) and captured his nephew Landenulf (Lando II's brother) and forty other \"primarii\" (leading men) of the city. He then built a large, defensive tower around which modern Caserta was built. That tower is now included in the Palazzo della Prefettura, once seat of the counts of Caserta and, later, a royal residence.\n\nPando died in battle and was succeeded by his son Pandenulf, who was deposed, while his younger son Landenulf became bishop of Capua in 879. Pandenulf later became the first of a line of counts of Caserta.\n\n"}
{"id": "1117127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1117127", "title": "Parley P. Pratt", "text": "Parley P. Pratt\n\nParley Parker Pratt Sr. (April 12, 1807 – May 13, 1857) was an early leader of the Latter Day Saint movement whose writings became a significant early nineteenth-century exposition of the Latter Day Saint faith. Named in 1835 as one of the first members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, Pratt was part of the Quorum's successful mission to Great Britain from 1839 to 1841. Pratt has been called \"the Apostle Paul of Mormonism\" for his promotion of distinctive Mormon doctrines.\n\nPratt explored and surveyed Parley's Canyon in Salt Lake City, Utah (named in his honor), and subsequently built and maintained the first road for public transportation in the canyon.\n\nPratt practiced plural marriage. He was murdered in 1857 by the estranged husband of his twelfth wife. Pratt fathered thirty children. His living descendants in 2011 were estimated to number 30,000 to 50,000. He is the great-great-grandfather of Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican candidate for President of the United States, and the great-great-great-grandfather of Jon Huntsman Jr., diplomat and former Governor of Utah, who is currently serving as the U.S. Ambassador to Russia.\n\nPratt was born in Burlington, New York, to Jared Pratt (1769–1839) and his wife, Charity Dickinson (1776–1849), a descendant of Anne Hutchinson. He married Thankful Halsey in Canaan, New York, on September 9, 1827.\n\nThe young couple migrated west, where they settled near Cleveland, Ohio, where Pratt purchased land and constructed a home. In Ohio, Pratt became a member of the Reformed Baptist Society, also called \"Disciples of Christ\", influenced by the preaching of Sidney Rigdon. Pratt soon left his property to take up the ministry as a profession.\n\nWhile traveling to visit family in western New York, Pratt read a copy of the Book of Mormon owned by a Baptist deacon. Convinced of its authenticity, he traveled to Palmyra, and spoke to Hyrum Smith. Pratt was baptized in Seneca Lake by Oliver Cowdery on or about September 1, 1830, formally joining the Latter Day Saints church. He was ordained to the office of an elder in the church. Continuing on to his family's home, he introduced his younger brother, Orson Pratt, to Mormonism and baptized him on September 19, 1830.\n\nArriving in Fayette, New York, in October 1830, Pratt met Joseph Smith and was asked to join a missionary group assigned to preach to the Native American tribes on the Missouri frontier. During the trip west, he and his companions stopped to visit Sidney Rigdon. They were instrumental in converting Rigdon and approximately 130 members of his congregation within three weeks. Pratt became close friends with the Smiths, particularly Joseph, with whom he would later experience persecution and imprisonment, including incarceration at Liberty Jail.\n\nIn early 1833, Pratt served as a missionary in Illinois. He went to Jackson County, Missouri, where through the summer he headed the School of the Elders, a gathering of about 60 men who studied religious and secular subjects, similar to the School of the Prophets in Kirtland, Ohio. In the fall of 1833, he served as president of the Mormon branch number 8 in Jackson County and as a leader in the Mormon militia. He was among those Latter Day Saints driven into Clay County, Missouri, by mob violence. In February 1834, Pratt and Lyman Wight headed back to Kirtland to report on the events in Missouri to Joseph Smith. From Kirtland, Pratt traveled with Smith in Pennsylvania and western New York, preaching and trying to recruit people to serve in Zion's Camp. After traveling together for three weeks, during some of this time with Pratt serving as Smith's scribe, Smith returned to Kirtland from Geneseo, New York, for a court case. Pratt continued his missionary efforts along with Henry Brown. Pratt and Brown went to eastern New York to give his family members money to move to Kirtland. They went to Richland, New York, where Pratt convinced Wilford Woodruff, who had been baptized three months before, to join Zion's Camp.\n\nPratt returned to Missouri later in 1834 as a member of Zion's Camp. After Zion's Camp broke up, Pratt rejoined his wife, Thankful, who had remained in Clay County while he had been traveling. While working as a day laborer, Pratt served on the Missouri High Council. Thankful had run up large debts in Pratt's absence, and when he returned with her to Ohio, some felt he was trying to flee his creditors and criticized him for it. Pratt settled in New Portage, Ohio (now part of Barberton), where he was the leader of a group of Latter Day Saints there.\n\nIn 1835, after his call as an apostle, Pratt served with other apostles in a mission to New York, New England, and eastern Canada. Pratt preached in Upper Canada, in and around Toronto, in 1836. In 1837 and 1838, he preached in New York City.\n\nPratt later served as a missionary in the southern United States and in England, the Pacific islands, and South America. He moved to Chile to begin missionary work in Valparaíso. In 1852, Pratt and his family left Chile after the death of their child, Omner, without having had much success among the country's Catholic residents.\n\nIn addition to having converted his brother Orson and preacher Sidney Rigdon, Parley Pratt introduced the Mormon faith to several future church leaders, including Frederick G. Williams, John Taylor and his wife, Leonora, Isaac Morley, and Joseph Fielding, along with his sisters, Mary and Mercy.\n\nIn 1835, Pratt entered the leadership of the early Latter Day Saint movement when he was selected as one of the original Quorum of Twelve Apostles. While on a mission to the British Isles in 1839, Pratt edited the newly created periodical, \"Millennial Star\". While presiding over the church's branches and interests in New England and the mid-Atlantic states, Pratt published a periodical entitled \"The Prophet\" from his headquarters in New York City.\n\nAfter serving as a missionary in New York City, Pratt returned to church headquarters in Missouri in 1838. He was arrested in November 1838, along with Joseph Smith, and was held in prison in Richmond and then Columbia until escaping on July 4, 1839. His writings during this and other imprisonments with Smith comprise many first accounts and stories preserved about Smith.\n\nPratt was a noted religious writer and poet. Many of Pratt's writings are the only credible or lasting accounts from important American and Mormon events, such as the Hauns Mill Massacre and the events and conditions of imprisonment with Smith at Liberty Jail.\n\nPratt's first printed work was \"'The Mormons' So Called\", a 5500-word account of the persecution of Mormons in Jackson County in 1833.\n\nPratt wrote an autobiography, published after his death but likely his most widely read work in the 21st century. He published a book of poetry in 1835, the first collection of poems by a Latter Day Saint. Some of his poems have become staple Latter Day Saint hymns, some of which are included in the current hymnal of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). Pratt wrote many of these hymns in 1839 while sailing to England to serve as a missionary. He was involved in compiling a hymnal with 40 hymns of his own work while editor of the \"Millennial Star\".\n\nIn 1835, Pratt published a pamphlet about his missionary efforts in Mentor, Ohio. This work, entitled \"A Short Account of a Shameful Outrage\", was the first pamphlet ever published by a Mormon.\n\nOne of Pratt's most influential works was a book entitled \"A Voice of Warning\" (1837), first published in New York City. Givens and Grow say the book was \"a work that served the church as its most powerful proselytizing tool—after the Book of Mormon—for more than a century.\" Pratt made substantial revisions between the first and second editions after Joseph Smith voiced some reservations about it. The second edition of \"A Voice of Warning\" was published in 1839.\n\nIn 1837, Pratt, along with John Goodson, published the second edition of the Book of Mormon. It included Pratt's testimony, along with that of the three and eight witnesses to the golden plates.\n\nNear the end of 1837, Pratt published \"Mormonism Unveiled: Zion's Watchman Unmasked\", which is the earliest surviving response by a Mormon to an anti-Mormon writer.\n\nPratt also wrote one of the earliest Mormon works of fiction. His \"A Dialogue between Joseph Smith and the Devil\", was published on January 1, 1844, in the \"New York Herald\". It was a religious treatise in fictional form.\n\nPratt's most well-known theological work was \"A Key to Science of Theology,\" which was published in 1855. Other works by Pratt included \"Late Persecutions\", \"Millennium and Other Poems\", at least ten tracts published while he served as editor of the \"Millennial Star\", and \"Proclamation to the People of the Coasts and Islands of the Pacific\", written by Pratt in the summer of 1851 in San Francisco, California, and published by W. C. Wandell in Sydney, Australia.\n\nPratt's Visions and Poetry also serve as the text for many songs now found in the Latter Day Saint Hymnal. Pratt's writings also corroborate many events and revelations which are found in a book of Latter Day Saint scripture known as the Doctrine and Covenants.\n\nIn total, Pratt is known to have written 31 published works, not including his posthumous autobiography.\n\nAfter the death of Joseph Smith, Pratt and his family were among the Latter Day Saints who emigrated to what would become Utah Territory. They continued as members of LDS Church, under the direction of Brigham Young. Pratt helped establish the refugee settlements and fields at both Garden Grove and Mt. Pisgah, Iowa. He personally led a pioneer company along the Mormon Trail to the Salt Lake Valley.\n\nIn 1849, Pratt was appointed one of the justices of the anticipated state of Deseret. He later served in the legislature of the provisional state of Deseret beginning in 1849. During this same time, as one of the seven members of the Quorum of the Twelve in Utah, he was among those who oversaw the division of Salt Lake City into wards and the organization of other wards in Utah.\n\nSometime in the mid-1850s, working with George D. Watt, Pratt helped develop the Deseret alphabet. In 1854, Pratt went to San Francisco, California, to preside over the LDS Church's Pacific Mission\n\nIn 1856, Pratt served as chaplain of the Utah Territorial Legislature.\n\nIn 1856, Pratt went on a mission to the eastern United States. At that time, troubles were brewing in Pratt's life. Hector McLean was the estranged husband of one of Pratt's plural wives, Eleanor McLean. Pratt had met Eleanor in San Francisco, where he presided over a church mission. In San Francisco, Eleanor had joined the LDS Church and had also had her oldest sons baptized. Hector rejected Mormonism and opposed his wife's membership in the church. Though they did not divorce, the dispute led to the collapse of their marriage.\n\nFearing that Eleanor would abscond to Utah Territory with their children, Hector sent his sons and daughter to New Orleans, Louisiana, to live with their maternal grandparents. Eleanor followed the children to New Orleans, where she lived with them for three months at her parents' house. Eventually, she and the children left for Utah Territory, via Texas; they arrived in Salt Lake City on September 11, 1855. She worked in Pratt's home as a schoolteacher. On November 14, 1855, she and Pratt underwent a \"celestial marriage\" sealing ceremony in the Endowment House. She was the twelfth woman to be sealed to Pratt. For religious and cultural reasons, Eleanor considered herself unmarried at the time of her sealing to Pratt, but she had not legally divorced from Hector.\n\nWhile Pratt was serving a mission in the eastern states, Eleanor went to New Orleans to get her children. Eleanor then took the children from her parents and headed to Texas. This was at the same time that Pratt was serving as a missionary in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Ohio. Because Eleanor took the children, Hector blamed Pratt.\n\nHector pressed criminal charges, accusing Pratt of assisting in the kidnapping of his children. Pratt managed to evade him and the legal charges, but was finally arrested in Indian Territory (now Oklahoma) in May 1857. Pratt and Eleanor McLean were charged with theft of the clothing of McLean's children. (The laws of that time did not recognize the kidnapping of children by a parent as a crime.) Tried before Judge John B. Ogden, Pratt was acquitted because of a lack of evidence and Ogden's own feelings after interviewing Eleanor. Ogden sympathized with Eleanor and Pratt, because he was so disgusted by Hector's drinking and wife-beating. Shortly after being secretly released, on May 13, 1857, Pratt was shot and stabbed by Hector on a farm northeast of Van Buren, Arkansas. He died two and a half hours later from loss of blood.\n\nAs Pratt was bleeding to death, a farmer asked what he had done to provoke the attack. Pratt said, \"He accused me of taking his wife and children. I did not do it. They were oppressed, and I did for them what I would do for the oppressed any where.\" Pratt was buried near Alma, Arkansas, despite his desire to be buried in Utah Territory.\n\nSome writers have viewed Pratt's death as the act of a jealous husband, deeply angered by a man who had \"run off\" with his wife. A 2008 \"Provo Daily Herald\" newspaper article characterized McLean as a man who had \"hunted down\" Pratt in retribution for \"ruining his marriage\". A 2008 \"Deseret News\" article described McLean as a man who had \"pursued Pratt across Missouri, Oklahoma and Arkansas, angry that his estranged wife, Eleanor, had become Pratt's 12th wife.\"\n\nMany Mormons viewed Pratt's death as a martyrdom; his dying words were said to be, \"I am dying a martyr to the faith.\" A 2007 article in the \"Deseret Morning News\" said that \"Pratt was killed near Van Buren, Ark., in May 1857, by a small Arkansas band antagonistic toward his teachings\". The historian Will Bagley reports that McLean and two friends tracked Pratt after he was released by Van Buren's magistrate. Brigham Young compared Pratt's death to those of Joseph and Hyrum Smith. Other Mormons blamed the death on the state of Arkansas, or its people.\n\nDue to Pratt's personal popularity and his position in the Quorum of the Twelve, his murder was a significant blow to the Latter-day Saint community in the Rocky Mountains. Pratt's violent death may also have played a part in events leading up to the Mountain Meadows massacre a few months later. After the massacre, some Mormons circulated rumors that one or more members of the party had murdered Pratt, poisoned creek water that subsequently sickened Paiute children, and allowed their cattle to graze on private property.\n\nPratt was one of the better known Mormons among other Americans; for instance, in his 1864-published visit to the Mormons, Fitz-Hugh Ludlow, in \"The Atlantic\" made a joke about \"Mrs. Deacon Pratt\" and referred to \"Parley's Cañon (named after the celebrated Elder, Parley Pratt).\"\n\nIn 2008, Pratt's family received permission from an Arkansas judge to rebury his remains in the Salt Lake City Cemetery, but no human remains were found at what was believed his gravesite. No further search efforts for Pratt's burial site have been planned.\n\nPratt practiced plural marriage and had 12 wives, 30 children, and 266 grandchildren. In 2011, Pratt's living descendants were estimated to number 30,000 to 50,000. His first wife, Thankful Halsey Pratt, died following childbirth in March 1837. (Thankful was a widow ten years older than Pratt when she married him.) Pratt did, however, marry women averaging ten years younger than himself, the greatest age difference occurring with his marriage to his Ann Agatha Walker who was 18 to his 40 years.\n\nOn May 14, 1837, Pratt married his second wife, Mary Ann Frost Stearns (1808–1891), a widow with a daughter. The marriage was performed by Frederick G. Williams. Mary Ann was a native of Bethel, Maine (part of Massachusetts until 1820) whose first relative to join the church was Patty Bartlett Sessions, later a prominent midwife in Utah. Mary Ann was baptized by David W. Patten. She had come to Kirtland as a widow in 1836. Joseph Smith later condemned Latter Day Saints for \"marrying in five or six weeks, or even in two or three months, after the death of their companion.\" Pratt may have married Mary Ann so quickly to get back his infant son, although he remained in the care of Mary Ann Young for nearly a year after Pratt remarried. Mary Ann and Pratt at times demonstrated a deep companionship in their marriage, most fully shown by her joining her husband in prison in Missouri. After Pratt began practicing polygyny, they became estranged. Pratt suggested his falling out with Mary Ann was \"stung by falsehoods which are circulated in the Church\".\n\nSome sources state that in 1843, Mary Ann Pratt married Joseph Smith, the church's founder. This marriage, however, does not appear on most lists of Smith's marriages. That same year, Smith married at least 17 other women—including Mary Ann's sister, Olive Grey Frost. Olive would marry Smith's successor, Brigham Young, after Smith's death in 1844.\n\nPratt made several attempts to get Mary Ann to join him in traveling west in 1846 and 1847, but after spending the winter of 1846–47 in an abandoned Nauvoo, she chose to return to Maine. Pratt provided her with clothes and money upon her return to Maine. She received some of the proceeds from the sale of Pratt's home to a Roman Catholic priest; the Nauvoo home is still used as a residence for Catholic priests. In 1852, Mary Ann traveled to Utah Territory, but she and Pratt did not see eye to eye on how to raise their children. Mary Ann received a divorce decree issued by Brigham Young in 1853. Mary Ann then settled in what is now Pleasant Grove, Utah. She worked as a midwife, remained in the LDS Church and became a leading advocate for Mormon women against the attacks of those opposed to polygamy.\n\nIn the fall of 1853, Pratt had seven living wives. These wives were:\n\n\nOther wives of Pratt:\n\nPratt's constant missions left him little time with his family. After he started practicing plural marriage, the longest period of time he had with his family were the 18 months following his return from a mission to Chile.\n\nAccording to Terryl L. Givens and Matthew J. Grow, Pratt's \"highest happiness was to be surrounded by a teeming domestic world of multiple wives and offspring.\" They noted that he also had an \"antisocial bent\".\n\nOne of Pratt's grandsons, William King Driggs, was the father of the King Sisters.\n\nMitt Romney, the Massachusetts governor (2003–07) and the 2012 Republican nominee for the U.S. presidency, is one of Pratt's great-great-grandsons.\n\nOne of Pratt's great-great-great-grandsons is Jon Huntsman, the former Utah governor and Ambassador to China, and an unsuccessful candidate for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "621189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621189", "title": "Perineal massage", "text": "Perineal massage\n\nBold text\nAntenatal perineal massage (APM) or birth canal widening (BCW) is the massage of a pregnant woman's perineum around the opening to the vagina, performed anywhere in the 4 to 6 weeks before childbirth and usually on 4-6 separate occasions. The practice aims to more gently mimic the massaging action of a baby's head on the opening to the birth canal prior to birth, which enables some of the hard work of labour to be done before the start of labour. The intention is to attempt to prevent tearing of the perineum during birth, and reduce the need for an episiotomy or an instrument (forceps or vacuum extraction) delivery.\n\nThe Oxford Radcliffe NHS Trust Document \"Antenatal Perineal Massage\" 2011 describes the use of the pregnant mother's thumbs being placed just inside the birth canal, whilst she stands with one foot supported on the toilet. She pulls backwards towards her spine, whilst relaxing her pelvic floor, progressively increasing the pressure under her finger tips until this starts to feel uncomfortable. On the next occasion she uses both thumbs pulling backwards and then sideways, thumbs away from each other, to enlarge the 2 cm diameter opening of the birth canal progressively over time to 10 cm. It is not possible to stretch this opening further causing damage, because this will be limited by the distance between the bony walls of the pelvis.\n\nThe goal of APM is to prevent the baby's head from undergoing excessive strain during the last 30 minutes of labour. It seeks to train the mother to relax her pelvic floor to allow the baby's head to pass through the opening, to stretch the two fibrous layers within the Uro-Genital Membrane, a triangular shaped muscular shelf at the front half of the opening of the bony pelvis, through which the 2 cm diameter birth canal and urethra pass, and to transform the fat packed rigid skin at the opening to the birth canal into paper thin stretchy elastic skin, all without using the baby's head. \nIf the external skin (perineal skin) opening has been stretched before birth, to 10 cm, then there is no reason to perform an episiotomy to increase the diameter of the opening of the birth canal. Tearing is less likely as the external skin at the opening has been stretched already and is lax, whilst the underlying muscular pelvic floor has not been damaged. Episiotomy permanently damages the pelvic floor muscle, as the episiotomy cuts through the nerve supply to this muscle, so the larger part of the pelvic floor muscles atrophies and becomes replaced by scar tissue, increasing the mother's chance of developing a prolapse in the future. Antenatal Perineal Massage does not damage the pelvic floor, so protects against a prolapse.\n\nAntenatal perineal massage or pre-birth obstetric massage (birth canal widening) has been used for many generations both by Chukchi Eskimos in Siberia and by African tribal people. Using index fingers pulling away from each other, and progressing to index and middle; and then index middle and ring; and then index middle ring and little fingers, pulling away from each other, painlessly, performed by the pregnant mother's spouse, after sexual intercourse, when the mother is relaxed has also been described enabling the father to take an active role in aiding the birth. Glass bottles of increasing sizes have also been used as the instrument of massage.\n\nThe German obstetrician Mr Welheim Horkel, when visiting a medical mission in the mid-1980s, learned that African tribes used gourds of increasing sizes as instruments of massage, with mothers aiding their daughters' labours in this way.\n\nWest Berkshire England performed an Antenatal Massage trial in 1984, and many small trials have been performed worldwide since. Cochrane Collaborate Reports since 2006 have advised that women should be informed that episiotomy is avoidable if they employ digital Antenatal Perineal Massage.\n\nA randomized clinical trials of perineal massage found similar results in the massage and control groups. They did find a reduced rate of class two and three level tears but did not find a reduction in the risk of pain, urinary or fecal incontinence, or dyspareunia.. \nThe trail titled 'The possibility of antepartal prevention of episiotomy and perineal tears during delivery', concluded in 'Retrospective study at Nemocnice Český Krumlov, Methods: Between February 2014 and November 2015, 315 primiparous women questioned after a vaginal delivery, on the use of methods of birth injury prevention (vaginal dilatators EPI-NO and Aniball, perineal massage, natural methods – raspberry-leaf tea or linseed' concluded that 'There was a significantly higher number of women with intact perineum after the use of vaginal dilatators (43.1% vs.14.1% in control group (p < 0.001)' and 'We also found a significant reduction of episiotomies in this group (29.3% vs. 57.7%, p < 0.001). titled The Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology of Czechoslovakia| url=https://aniball.nl/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/Onafhankelijk-onderzoek-1.pdf.\n\nAntenatal Perineal Massage affords mothers worldwide, irrespective of income, the opportunity to shorten the critical last 30 minutes of labour. Mothers with a narrowed opening in their bony pelvis, whether from being born with an abnormally narrow pelvis, from previous fracture or from deformity secondary to infection in the bone (osteomyelitis), may need surgical intervention, as indicated by a failure to progress either when the baby's head fails to enter the bony pelvis or develops fetal distress.\n\n"}
{"id": "25346749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25346749", "title": "Public sector ethics", "text": "Public sector ethics\n\nEthics in the public sector is a broad topic that is usually considered a branch of political ethics. In the public sector, ethics addresses the fundamental premise of a public administrator's duty as a \"steward\" to the public. In other words, it is the moral justification and consideration for decisions and actions made during the completion of daily duties when working to provide the general services of government and nonprofit organizations. Ethics is defined as, among others, the entirety of rules of proper moral conduct corresponding to the ideology of a particular society or organization (Eduard). Public sector ethics is a broad topic because values and morals vary between cultures. Despite the differences in ethical values, there is a growing common ground of what is considered good conduct and correct conduct with ethics. Ethics are an accountability standard by which the public will scrutinize the work being conducted by the members of these organizations. The question of ethics emerges in the public sector on account of its subordinate character.\n\nDecisions are based upon ethical principles, which are the perception of what the general public would view as correct. Ensuring the ethical behavior in the public sector requires a permanent reflection on the decisions taken and their impact from a moral point of view on citizens. Having such a distinction ensures that public administrators are not acting on an internal set of ethical principles without first questioning whether those principles would hold to public scrutiny. It also has placed an additional burden upon public administrators regarding the conduct of their personal lives. Public sector ethics is an attempt to create a more open atmosphere within governmental operations.\n\nGovernment ethics constitutes the application of ethical rules to government. It is that part of practical jurisprudence, or the philosophy of law, that governs the operation of government and its relationship with the people that it governs. It covers issues of honesty and transparency in government, dealing with matters such as bribery, political corruption, police corruption, legislative ethics, regulatory ethics, conflict of interest, avoiding the appearance of impropriety, open government, and legal ethics.\n\nThe US office of government ethics was initiated by the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to provide overall leadership and policy direction for an ethics program in the Executive branch of government. This same picture is mirrored, albeit in a patchy way, across US state administrations. Altogether the US model of Public sector ethics has become highly regulated and, some would say, cumbersome.\n\nGovernment officials serve the people, managing the resources of others. Along with this stewardship, there is an expectation from the public that in conducting daily activities, the officials will practice fairness and equality. They are also expected to maintain openness in their workings to ensure that they are operating within the public's perception of what is \"right.\" This concept of ethics, a branch of philosophy which seeks to address morality, is not a relatively new idea within government. Niccolò Machiavelli wrote \"The Prince\", which serves as a manual to illustrate what a monarchy should do to maintain power. This treatise is often viewed as a tool of how a public official should not act in modern society, as it is an enumeration of the specific steps one should take to maintain control and power. This idea of control and power conflicts with the underlying principle of being a steward to the general public. As such, this treatise is a springboard for ethical issues in modern-day times.\n\nPaul Douglas, a former United States Senator from Illinois, argues that while many may secretly follow Machiavelli in their heart, most do not. “Instead, most men want a life of integrity and goodwill in which public officials are stewards rather than masters and treat their jobs as a means of helping people rather than dominating them”.\n\nDouglas further argues why ethical practices are needed. “Our government is now so huge and affects our lives so directly that we cannot be content with merely a moderately decent level of behavior on the part of our public officials. For even a small percentage of misbehavior on the part of these officials can do a vast amount of harm”.\n\nRegulatory ethics is a body of law and practical political philosophy that governs the conduct of civil servants and the members of regulatory agencies. It addresses issues such as bribery and the relationship of civil servants with the businesses in the industries they regulate, as well as concerns about transparency, freedom of information and sunshine laws, and conflict of interest rules.\n\nWhile Machiavelli and Douglas are distant in time, the two opposing viewpoints of the types of public administrators, and the ethical stance of the decisions they make, are very relevant today. Further illustrating the bifurcation of thought on ethics in government, Cody and Lynn discuss the two opposing factors: utilitarian's and deontologists.\n\nUtilitarians: Believe that the end sought justifies the means to that end. In other words, if an ethical solution is more costly, a utilitarian will argue from a standpoint of efficiency or effectiveness to justify a less ethical solution.\n\nDeontologists: Believe that certain absolute principles should be obeyed, regardless of the consequences. An example of an absolute principle would be honesty.\n\nThe definition of these two behavioral models is not necessarily exclusive. It is possible for a person to make a decision based upon a utilitarian stance and then follow a deontological stance for a separate decision. This is because the concept of ethics is vague and ultimately is based upon principles and values, which will differ among situations and people.\n\nPublic sector ethics deals with ethics for those who serve in the public sector- primarily governmental and elected officials focusing on the public, whom they serve. While public sector ethics overlaps in part with government ethics, it can be considered a separate branch in that government ethics is only focused on moral issues relating to governments, including bribery and corruption, whilst public sector ethics also encompasses any position included in the public administration field. Public administration ethics does cover relations among politicians, but it also covers politicians and the concerned parties in the outside world: elected public servants, the media, public sector entities, and individuals.\n\nJohn Rohr, in defining bureaucrats as public administrators, approaches ethic standards in government as a requirement due to the nature of the work of administrators. He writes, “because bureaucrats govern through authority that is discretionary, and because they are not elected, the ordinary means of popular control are inapplicable”. Rohr assumes that public administrators are working to benefit the general public’s needs. When an elected official does not act in line with the public’s expectations, they can be removed from office. However, public administrators are protected with due process rights as government employees, and ethical violations can be difficult to justify the removal of a person from an office.\n\nMany questions about how ethics should be addressed in government exist. According to Cody and Lynn, the debate centers on the extent to which one would like to detail ethical standards. For example, they cite the general litmus test for administrators regarding whether or not they would like to hear about their actions on the front page of tomorrow’s newspaper. That is, a public official should gauge their decisions by how he/she would interpret the public scrutiny should his/her decision appear on the front page of the next day's newspaper. If it would be viewed as a problem by the public, then the administrator should refrain from the action in question.\n\nThe Honest Person Rule: Unless there is an underlying honesty within people, a set of ethical rules is meaningless. This supporting argument for the general guidelines maintains that for ethical standards to be practical an individual must be ethically sound from the beginning. As Cody and Lynn point out, it is possible for a public official to act unethically, but not be personally dishonest.\n\nThe litmus test example and the Honest Person Rule are broad standards without much definition. As a consequence, broadly defined ethical standards are difficult to assess regarding concerns of ethical violations. In order to have greater accountability, more specific standards are needed, or a statement of applied ethics.\n\nTo further provide some definition, Rohr classifies ethics in government with some of the approaches that have been taken. The USDA devised a system where employees were asked questions and then asked to rank the actions as permissible, not permissible, and permissible with prior written approval. Rohr argues that this type of approach, known as the Low Road merely places an understanding of what not to do in order to steer clear of trouble (1978, pp. 53–54). This approach does not assist an employee in providing a standard for what is truly ethical behavior.\n\nThe High Road, according to Rohr, is the basis of decisions upon a pursuit for social equity, which is based upon political philosophy and humanistic psychology.\n\nRohr finds problems with both the Low Road and High Road approaches and bases his argument on regime values, or “the values of that political entity that was brought into being by the ratification of the Constitution that created the present American republic” (1978, p. 59). He contends that regime values are built upon three considerations:\nThe basic contention upon which Rohr builds his argument is that rulings by the Supreme Court are sufficient measures upon which an ethical framework can be constructed. Rohr argues that this framework for ethical standards is strong because it relies upon a system of checks and balances in the judicial system and because it is built upon the interpretation of framers' intents of how and why government exists.\n\nTerry Cooper is an often-cited author in the field of public administration ethics. His book, \"The Responsible Administrator\", is an in-depth attempt to bridge the philosophical points of ethics and the complex workings of public administration. While not revolutionary, his work has become a focal point around which ethical decision-making in the public sector are made. In \"The Responsible Administrator\", he states that public administrators make decisions daily according to a distinctive four-level process. The four levels are:\n\nThe Expressive Level: At this stage, a person responds to a situation with \"spontaneous, reflective expressions of emotion ... which neither invite a reply nor attempt to persuade others\".\n\nThe Level of Moral Rules: This is the first level at which we begin to question actions and begin to look for alternatives and consequences. The responses at this level are often built upon \"moral rules we acquire through the socialization process from our families, religious affiliations, education and personal experiences.\" Decisions on how to handle the situation are then whittled down based on what we feel is the most appropriate action within our own personal moral bank.\n\nThe Level of Ethical Analysis: There are times when a personal moral code will seem inadequate for the situation, or that the alternatives and consequences do not feel right. When this occurs, a person has entered this level and begins to examine their ethical principles, or \"statements concerning the conduct or state of being that is required for the fulfillment of a value; it explicitly links a value with a general mode of action\". Particularly, at this level, one begins to reexamine their personal values, and may eventually disagree with actions to such an extent that they will become \"whistleblowers.\"\n\nThe Post-ethical Level: At this level, questions arise about one's view of the world and human nature, how we know anything to be true, and the meaning of life. Here there is a philosophical examination as to why ethical standards are important and relevant to the individual.\n\nThese levels are progressive and as an individual begins to move from level to the next, they will begin to question increasingly more the fundamental assumptions upon which the decision-making process is built. It is important to understand the level of thinking upon which a decision is made to ensure that a decision has been tested for strength and a public sense of validity.\n\nCooper devised a method of moving from an ethical problem to appropriate alternatives and consequences. This model follows a sequential, rational approach to ethical decision-making. This method utilizes description and prescription, where public administrators begin to describe to themselves and others an objective state of affairs, and then begin to suggest steps to change the situation.\n\nThe steps to this process are as follows:\n\n\nBy following Cooper's model of ethical decision-making, a public administrator is able to create a more concrete process by which to assess individual steps that were taken in reaching a decision. This ensures that at each point, an effort was made by the administrator to uphold ethical principles and that fairness and equality were the standard. An administrator's decision must be able to withstand scrutiny to ensure that there is a continued trust and respect for accountability among employees and the public in the administrator's ability to conduct his/her duties.\n\nPublic administrators act independently of legislators and most elected officials. This ensures that those on elections boards can operate independently of political influence. This is also true of law enforcement. Unfortunately, enforcing ethical violations can lead to consequences for the public administrator. While an officer can enforce a law against an elected official, the elected official can place pressure on others to force the officer to work a night shift or decrease the department.\n\nRohr would argue that politics and administration are not separate, but are present at the same time when a public administrator makes decisions. He states that the problem with public administrators “is not that bureaucrats are excessively involved in policy formulation but that they are involved at all. This is a problem for a democratic society because to influence public policy as a public official is to govern”. In other words, those officials who are influencing decisions are taking on the role of those elected by the public without a responsibility of having to answer to the public for decisions made.\n\nHowever, because there can be large political obstacles, it can be difficult for an administrator to overcome ethical concerns within an organization. Sometimes, the culture of an organization is unethical, at which time, it would be useless to bring up ethical concerns within the organization. In the public sector and nonprofits, when this is the case, individuals will often attempt to bring outside scrutiny on to the organization. This is typically done by leaking the ethical concerns to the general media. Such an act is known as \"whistleblowing\".\n\nWhistleblowing: After using all available means for working within the system, an employee of a governmental agency reports a problem to other governmental agencies or to the general public directly. The problem for whistleblowing on all levels of government (federal, state, and local) is that there are very few protections for these individuals.\n\nThere are several factors of a person’s private life that are often viewed as something that is not made available to the public. When a person enters into a public life, often, aspects of their private life are made public.\n\nHealth: It is important, in the public’s eye, that a public official be physically sound when conducting the duties of their office. For example, when Ronald Reagan had an assassination attempt, he was often reporting how healthy he was. This may have been an attempt to prevent the transfer of powers to his Vice President. However, because of the mandate of a transfer of powers, it was necessary for the public to understand his overall condition.\n\nFinances: A public official may be a strong steward of public funds, but may have personal financial issues (i.e. failure to pay taxes, etc.). Disclosure of finances is particularly important, ethically, for the public to decide an official’s ability to properly manage public funds and to assess an individual’s potential for giving into politically charged financial pressure. Opposing viewpoints to this argue that public officials should not have to disclose financial information because they are sometimes linked to personal contacts that prefer to remain anonymous.\n\nSexual Misconduct: The common view is that a public official’s sexual life is subject to scrutiny. This is due to the assumption that any sexual misconduct may lead to the manipulation of the official’s daily decisions. It is thereby often the subject of attention when sexual misconduct becomes known to the public.\n\nAppearance of Impropriety: Officials should make public any possible conflicts of interest prior to their actions, in order to avoid public scrutiny when making decisions that could be construed in favor of a personal interest.\n\nEthical climate in the public sector refers to the psychological conditions present in the public sector workplace and how those conditions influence a public sector employees ethical decision making. One way of interpreting public sector ethics from a theoretical perspective is to view a workers behavior as a function of their psychological field. It is theorized that understanding the ethical climate in which one works explains ones decisions making and can differentiate between and explain why one would make ethical or unethical choices. A study was done examining the ethical climate in the sector through analyzing surveys in which public sector employees responded to a variety of different scenarios where ethical decision making came into play. The researchers looked for correlations between ethical climate environments and the responses to this survey and found that certain ethical climates were linked to positive ethical decision making and some were linked to worse ethical decision making, supporting the researchers thesis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17134641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17134641", "title": "Puppy Luv", "text": "Puppy Luv\n\nPuppy Luv is a simulation video game for the Wii and Windows released on October 25, 2007. The Wii version was developed by Game Mill and published by Activision. It was developed and published for Windows by Canadian studio Gogii Games.\n\n\"Puppy Luv\" is a sim game designed for one player and revolving around caring for a puppy.\n\nIt contains:\n\nAfter the player picks a puppy, he/she cares for it by feeding, grooming, and training it which also earns the player money to buy things. The player is able to take their puppy for walks to allow to relieve itself.\n\nThe game has received largely negative reviews. It has been criticized for the low choice in breeds (only 6 compared to similar sims with 30+), choppy animation that could easily have been fixed, and unrealistic movements such as when feeding a puppy it would pick the food up in its mouth and tilt its head back much in the manner of geese and ducks without chewing or swallowing. Some parts of the game will be inaccessible or will not allow the player to do anything else until they can get their puppy to perform a trick correctly which may become impossible due to hiccups and bugs in the game, most notably the roll over trick.\n\n"}
{"id": "15182945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15182945", "title": "Raj`a", "text": "Raj`a\n\nRaj`a () (alternatively rjaa, raja'a, raj'at) in Islamic terminology, refers to the Second Coming, or the return to life of a given past historical figure after that person's physical death. While primarily used in Shia Muslim terminology, variations on the doctrine exist in Sunni Islam and the Bahá'í Faith, and \"raj`a\" is used to describe certain Christian doctrines in Arabic.\n\nThe Raj`a doesn't refer exclusively to the theological meaning, but is used in Arabic for other cases such as: remarriage of divorced spouses after a period of waiting, the reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi after his occultation, and the reestablishment of an Islamic state in the modern world.\n\nTwelver Shia Muslims believe that the 12th Imam, Muhammad al-Mahdi, is currently living and is removed from access by his followers in a state called the major occultation. In Twelver belief, the 12th Imam is identical with the figure of the Mahdi whose appearance is still awaited by other Muslim sects. It is believed that before the Day of Judgement, Muhammad al-Mahdi will return with a group of chosen companions. This return is more properly known as \"zuhur\" or 'appearance', as the Hidded Imam is believed to have remained alive during his occultation since the year 874.\n\nAfter his reappearance Shia eschatology predicts that the Mahdi will do battle against Dajjal and Sufyani. After this battle it is believed that the Imam Mahdi will be joined by the return of Christ, and of the Imam Husayn, along with other historical figures such as the prophets and saints of the past. The return of these historical figures will herald the beginning of the Last Judgment. The purpose of this return is the establishment of justice for those who were oppressed and died oppressed: the oppressors are punished directly by the oppressed during this future reappearance. Shias base this belief on several verses in the Quran where it is mentioned that some people will die twice and live twice.\n\nAfter 260 AH, belief in Raj’a was treated by Sunni authors as a distinctive trait distinguishing Shia and Sunni Muslims, with many books written addressing this distinction. \"Releasing from Irreversibility with the Proof of Raj’a\" (in Arabic: الايقاظ من الهجعة بالبرهان علي الرجعة) was the most extensive book, with reference to more than 670 hadiths, Qur'anic verses and rationale.\n\nSome Sunni scholars do believe in Raj’a, believing in the return of number of people such as Seven Sleepers synchronous with the appearance of the Mahdi. Jalaluddin Al-Sayuti wrote about the raj`a but in a different way from the Shiites. According to his book \"The Possibility of Seeing the Prophet and the Angels\" (Arabic: تنوير الحلك في إمكان رؤية النبي والملك,) Suyuti claims to have seen the Prophet Muhammad over 70 times while he was awake. According to him, in contrast to Shiite belief, the return of the Prophet Muhammad is not limited to a specific time in the future. Al-Sayuti did not mention if any other religious figures will return after death before the resurrection. According to Abu 'Abdullah Al-Qurtubi, raj`a is understood as the lack of physical presence of a prophet, who marks his apparent death by absence in the physical world but will reappear, from time to time, to those who are pure in heart. The Maliki scholar Ibn al-Arabi, known for his exegesis of the Sunan al-Tirmidhi, stated that seeing and hearing the prophets while awake is possible for the pure believer.\n\nCertain Qur'anic verses that Sunni and Shia scholars suggest confirm Raj’a include the following:\n\nThe concept of return is central to Bahá'í prophetology, as Bahá'í's believe the Prophets of their religions to fulfill the expectations of return in Shi'a Islam, Christianity and other religions. Specifically, the Báb is seen as the Shi'a Mahdi, while Bahá'u'lláh is seen simultaneously as the return of Christ and of the Imam Husayn.\n\nBahá'ís do not view the return of the prophets and saints of the past as a physical return, or resurrection, but rather a return of spiritual characteristics and archetypal roles. A well known Bahá'í story describes Rúhu'lláh Varqá, who would later be martyred for his allegiance to the Bahá'í Faith, describing the return of the prophets in this way:\n\n'One day Bahá’u’lláh asked Ruhu’llah, ‘What did you do today?’\nHe replied, ‘I was having lessons from — [a certain teacher].’ Bahá’u’lláh asked, ‘What subject were you learning?’ ‘Concerning the return [of the prophets]’, said Ruhu’llah. ‘Will you explain what this means?’ Bahá’u’lláh demanded. He replied: ‘By return is meant the return of realities and qualities.’\n\nBahá’u’lláh, questioning him further, said: ‘These are exactly the words of your teacher and you are repeating them like a parrot. Tell me in your own words your own understanding of the subject.’\n‘It is like cutting a flower from a plant this year,’ answered Ruhu’llah. ‘Next year’s flower will look exactly like this one, but it is not the same.’\n\nThe Blessed Beauty praised the child for his intelligent answer and often called him Jinab-i-Muballigh (His honour, the Bahá’í teacher)\n\nAs the Manifestations of God are believed to both possess both a human soul, and to be Manifestations of the eternal logos, each prophet is described by Bahá'u'lláh as in one sense the return of every previous prophet. The concept of return is further extended to the companions of the Manifestations, with members of the Letters of the Living being regarded as the return of figures such as the Prophet Muhammad, Imam Ali and Fatima.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15257633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15257633", "title": "Robert Amadas", "text": "Robert Amadas\n\nRobert Amadas (before 1490 – 7 April 1532) was a London Goldsmith whose clients included King Henry VIII and his courtiers. He was Master of the King's Jewel House, and one of the Deputy Masters of the Mint.\n\nRobert Amadas was the son of William Amadas, a London Goldsmith. His father's will, made in 1491, names his sons Robert, John, Thomas and William. Robert Amadas is also mentioned in the will, proved in 1490, of his uncle, John Amadas, also a London goldsmith.\n\nAmadas was trained as a goldsmith by his father. He was a lowys of the Goldsmiths' Company in 1492, and 'fully sworn to the Company in 1494'. In 1503 he was admitted to the livery. He was one of the Company's Wardens in 1511 and 1515, and Prime Warden in 1524 and again in 1530. The last mention of him in the Company's records was on 15 January 1532 when his apprentice, Brian Berwycke, was sworn to the Company.\n\nAmadas is said to have been the 'chief supplier of gold and silver to the King and his courtiers'; numerous entries in the State Papers record payment to him for gold and silver plate, including plate given by the King as New Year's gifts. In January 1532 the King's New Year's gift to Amadas was 36.75 ounces of plate, while Amadas in turn gave the King 'six sovereigns in a white paper'. It has been conjectured that Amadas marked his work as a goldsmith with a heart, a play on his name.\n\nAmadas served as acting Master of the King's Jewel House as early as 1524, and on 20 April 1526 was formally appointed Master, an office which he retained until his death in April 1532, when he was succeeded by Thomas Cromwell. After Amadas' death, commissioners appointed to take an inventory of the King's jewels which had been in Amadas' custody. Two of the three books of inventory were signed by the King, and all three by Amadas' widow, Elizabeth.\n\nAt some time before 1526 Amadas was appointed one of the deputies to the Master of the Mint, William Blount, 4th Baron Mountjoy. In 1526 the coinage was altered, and a new contract was entered into between Mountjoy and his two deputies, Robert Amadas and Ralph Rowlett, and Amadas' deputy, Martin Bowes. Shortly thereafter allegations were made of wrongdoing in the administration of the Mint, and in June 1527 a commission of inquiry was set up. The commission reported in February 1528, and was highly critical of Amadas and Rowlett. In 1530 Lord Mountjoy, disturbed by the declining revenues from the Mint, and suspecting corruption, instituted a lawsuit in the High Court of Chancery against his two deputies. Unfortunately the outcome of the lawsuit is unknown; however in December 1530 Mountjoy appointed a new deputy for the Mint, the London goldsmith Hugh Welshe or Walshe, who had been one of the members of the commission which had earlier been critical of the work of Amadas and Rowlett.\n\nAmadas refused election as Sheriff of London in 1531. He made his will on 3 July 1531, requesting burial in his parish church of St Mary Woolnoth, and appointing his wife, Elizabeth, as his sole executrix, and Thomas Howard, 3rd Duke of Norfolk, Sir Thomas More, and Richard Rich as overseers. He bequeathed the King a gold cup of £100 value. Among his other bequests was £5 to John Freeman, who had been apprenticed to him in 1507 and admitted to the livery in 1528. The will was proved 28 November 1533. His stock was inventoried after his death, and put up for sale.\n\nIn July 1533, an Elizabeth Amadas claimed that she had earlier been solicited to become Henry VIII's mistress. She predicted that Anne Boleyn would be burned as a harlot, and said that men should not be able to set aside their wives, as the King was attempting to do with Catherine of Aragon. Elizabeth Amadas claimed that her own husband had left her. She was arrested for her treasonous comments, and it is said that Robert Amadas was ordered to pay several hundred pounds for 'missing plate' owned by the King.\n\nHowever Virgoe and others consider this identification to be mistaken, and conclude that the Elizabeth Amadas who made these allegations was likely Elizabeth (née Buttockshide) Amadas, the daughter of Anthony Buttockshide of St Budeaux, Devon, and wife of John Amadas (c.1489–1554/5), sergeant-at-arms to Henry VIII:\n\nCromwell seems to have treated [John Amadas] circumspectly, perhaps because the Mistress Amadas who prophesied against the King and Anne Boleyn and predicted a Parliament of Peace to be held in the Tower may have been his first wife...Elton's identification of the prophetess of 1533 with Elizabeth, widow of Robert Amadas, is unacceptable as she married Sir Thomas Neville soon after the goldsmith's death in 1532.\n\nAmadas married Elizabeth Bryce, the daughter of James Bryce (d. before 1496) by his wife, Elizabeth Chester (d.1504), and the granddaughter of Sir Hugh Bryce (d. 22 November 1496), Goldsmith, and Lord Mayor of London in 1485, and his wife, Elizabeth (née Ranfield), by whom he had two daughters, Elizabeth and Thomasine:\n\n\nAfter Amadas' death, his widow, Elizabeth, married, on 28 August 1532, as his second wife, the lawyer and Speaker of the House of Commons, Sir Thomas Neville, (d. 29 May 1542), fifth son of George Neville, 2nd Baron Bergavenny (1436–1492), by his first wife Margaret, daughter of Hugh Fenn. Neville had earlier been married to Katherine (née Dacre), widow of George, 8th Baron FitzHugh (d. 28 January 1513), and daughter of Humphrey Dacre, 1st Baron Dacre of Gilsland, by whom he had an only child, Margaret Neville, who on 1 May 1536 married Sir Robert Southwell. Elizabeth predeceased her second husband.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17998007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17998007", "title": "Roy Amara", "text": "Roy Amara\n\nRoy Charles Amara (7 April 1925 – 31 December 2007) was an American researcher, scientist, futurist and president of the Institute for the Future best known for coining Amara's law on the effect of technology. He held a BS in Management, an MS in the Arts and Sciences, and a Ph.D. in Systems Engineering, and also worked at the Stanford Research Institute.\n\nHis adage about forecasting the effects of technology has become known as Amara's law and states:\n\n\"We tend to overestimate the effect of a technology in the short run and underestimate the effect in the long run.\"\n\nThis law has been described as encouraging people to think about the long-term effects of technology, and has been described as best illustrated by the hype cycle, characterized by the \"peak of inflated expectations\" followed by the \"trough of disillusionment\". The law has been used in explaining cyber-attacks and nanotechnology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48037566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48037566", "title": "SS El Faro", "text": "SS El Faro\n\nSS \"El Faro was a United States-flagged, combination roll-on/roll-off and lift-on/lift-off cargo ship crewed by U.S. merchant mariners. Built in 1975 by Sun Shipbuilding & Drydock Co. as Puerto Rico, the vessel was renamed Northern Lights\" in 1991, and finally, \"El Faro\" in 2006. She was lost at sea with all hands on October 1, 2015, after losing propulsion near the eyewall of Hurricane Joaquin.\n\n\"El Faro\" departed Jacksonville, Florida, bound for Puerto Rico at 8:10 pm EST on September 29, 2015, when then-Tropical Storm Joaquin was several hundred miles to the east. Two days later, after Joaquin had become a Category 3 hurricane, the vessel likely encountered swells of and winds over as it sailed near the storm's eye. Around 7:30 a.m. on October 1, the ship had taken on water and was listing 15 degrees. The last report from the captain, however, indicated that the crew had contained the flooding. Shortly thereafter, \"El Faro\" ceased all communications with shore.\n\nOn October 2, the 40-year-old ship was declared missing, and an extensive search operation was launched by the United States Coast Guard, with help from the Air Force, Air National Guard, and Navy. They recovered debris and a damaged lifeboat, and spotted (but could not recover) an unidentifiable body. \"El Faro\" was declared sunk on October 5. The search was called off at sunset on October 7, by which time more than had been covered by aircraft and ships. The Navy sent the USNS \"Apache\" to conduct an underwater search for \"El Faro\" on October 19, 2015. The \"Apache\" identified a vessel on October 31 \"consistent with [the \"El Faro\"] cargo ship...in an upright position and in one piece.\" The next day, November 1, the Navy announced a submersible had returned images that identified the wreck as the \"El Faro\".\n\n\"El Faro\" was built by the Sun Shipbuilding and Drydock Corporation in Chester, Pennsylvania, in 1975 as \"Puerto Rico\". As operated by the Navieras de Puerto Rico Steamship Company, the \"Puerto Rico\" hauled cargo to and from the U.S. East Coast for 15 years. In 1991, it was purchased by Saltchuk Resources, the parent company of TOTE Maritime, and renamed \"Northern Lights\". Two years later, it was lengthened by at Alabama Shipyard, Inc. Under Saltchuk, it frequently sailed between Tacoma, Washington, and Anchorage, Alaska.\n\nIn February 2003, just before the United States-led invasion of Iraq, the vessel was chartered by the United States' Military Sealift Command as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom; the vessel ferried Marines and supplies from San Diego, California, to Kuwait. On March 19, while in the Persian Gulf, the vessel came under fire from missiles. The explosions rocked the ship, but caused no damage or injuries. Through October 2005, near the end of \"Northern Lights\" chartered service, the vessel made 25 voyages and 49 port calls. Collectively, 12,200 pieces of military equipment—weighing in all—were transported by the ship. Robert Magee, then president of TOTE, and the crew of \"Northern Lights\" were praised by United States Air Force general Norton A. Schwartz: \"You and your team of professionals showcased the US flag industry at its best.\" Following completion of its military services in 2006, the ship was transferred by TOTE to its subsidiary company Sea Star Lines and renamed \"El Faro\". The vessel returned to its original route and served as a \"lifeline\" between the United States and Puerto Rico.\n\nWhen it sank on October 1, 2015, the Merchant Vessel \"El Faro\" was scheduled to return to Tacoma to relieve another vessel.\n\nOn September 29, 2015, at 8:10 p.m., \"El Faro\" left Jacksonville, Florida for San Juan, Puerto Rico, carrying a cargo of 391 shipping containers, about 294 trailers and cars, and a crew of 33 people—28 Americans and 5 Poles. The ship's master, Captain Michael Davidson, charted a course that, according to TOTE Maritime, took the vessel a reasonably safe distance away from the hurricane. At the time of departure, Hurricane Joaquin was still a tropical storm, but meteorologists at the National Hurricane Center forecast that it would likely become a hurricane by the morning of October 1, on a southwest trajectory toward the Bahamas. The vessel's charted course took it within of the storm, where seas in excess of were likely. TOTE could have vetoed the captain's sail plan into the area of a predicted hurricane, but chose not to and opted for the ship to continue. The company said there was no incentive for Davidson to maintain the ship's schedule, but that the schedule also appeared to be a safe one. At least one of the deck officers, second mate Danielle Randolph, voiced concern prior to sailing and wrote in an email to friends and family, \"there is a hurricane out here and we are heading straight into it.\"\n\nThe vessel had \"passed its annual Coast Guard inspection in March and another survey in June\", and had also successfully completed the American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) class and statutory surveys in February 2015. The NTSB confirmed on October 20, 2015, that El Faro had successfully completed the American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) class and statutory surveys on February 13, 2015. They also found that safety drills were conducted on a weekly basis and that the ship met stability criteria when it left Jacksonville.\n\nFormer crew members of \"El Faro\" expressed surprise and shock that the vessel set sail with a major storm in its course. They said the vessel was \"a rust bucket\" that \"[was not] supposed to be on the water.\" They also said that \"El Faro\" suffered from drainage issues and that leaking was common in the Galley (Kitchen) Compartment. They said that the ship was covered in rust and its decks filled with holes as recently as August.\n\nThroughout September 30 into the morning of October 1, Joaquin continued to track southwest. 10 hours after departing, \"El Faro\" was steaming at full speed and deviating from its charted course. According to Klaus Luhta of the International Organization of Masters, Mates & Pilots, Davidson continued to head directly into the storm. Joaquin became a hurricane by 8:00 a.m. on September 30, then rapidly intensified. By 11:00 pm, the storm had reached Category 3 intensity with maximum sustained winds of . Around 7:30 a.m. on October 1, less than 30 hours after the ship had sailed from Jacksonville, the United States Coast Guard received a satellite notification that the vessel had lost propulsion, taken on water—though flooding was contained at the time of the message—and had a 15-degree list.\n\nThe Coast Guard also received a single ping from the ship's Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacon. Subsequent attempts by the Coast Guard to open communications with \"El Faro\" were unsuccessful.\n\nMarine Traffic's last reported position of \"El Faro\" was at 4:01 a.m., heading south-southeast at . According to a different marine positioning database, relayed by Reuters, the final relayed position of \"El Faro\" was at 7:56 a.m., about northeast of Crooked Island. This placed the vessel within the eyewall of Hurricane Joaquin, situated near at 8:00 a.m., where winds in excess of and waves of likely battered the ship.\n\nOn 13 December 2016, the NTSB released a 500-page transcript of the conversations that occurred on the bridge in the ship's final 26 hours, as recorded by the Vessel's Voyage Data Recorder (VDR) and its six microphones.\n\nThe transcript described a quickly deteriorating situation.\n\nAt 5:43 am, the captain takes a phone call indicating suspected flooding in the no. 3 cargo hold and sends the chief mate to investigate. The crew then begin taking measures to try to assess and control the flooding.\n\nAt 6:13 am, the ship loses its steam propulsion plant.\n\nAt 6:54 am, the captain takes a phone call describing the situation onboard:\n\n\nAt 7:06 am, the captain makes a phone call. He says:\n\n\nAt 7:10 am, the captain tells someone on the phone that they have a 10- to 15-degree list, \"but a lot of that's with the wind heel.\" He lets the person know he will be making a distress call to the USCG, and then directs the second mate to activate the SSAS button/GMDSS alarm, and directs her to wake everybody up.\n\nAt 7:15 am, the chief mate returns to the bridge:\n\nAt 7:17 am, the chief engineer informs the chief mate and the captain over the sound-powered phone that the bilge alarm is going off in \"two alpha.\" The captain asks the chief if he can pump out all of the cargo holds at the same time, and discusses the worsening list. The chief mate informs the captain that the cars are floating in #3 cargo hold, and that the fire main is below the surface of the water, so he couldn't see the damage or if water was still coming in.\n\nAt 7:19 am, after further discussion with the chief mate, the captain calls the chief engineer again, asking, \"Can you... isolate the fire main from down in the uh engine room?... On the engine room side the isolation valve [on the] suction [for the] fire pump... secure it, isolate it on your side so there's no free communication from the sea.\"\n\nAt 7:24 am, the captain, speaking with a crew member on the phone, says, \"We still got reserve buoyancy and stability.\"\n\nAt 7:27 am, the captain instructs the second mate to ring the general alarm and wake up the crew.\n\nAt 7:29 am, the captain gives the order to abandon ship, and about a minute later can be heard on the bridge calling out, \"Bow is down, bow is down.\"\n\nAt 7:31 am, the captain yells over the UHF radio for the chief mate to \"Get into your rafts! Throw all your rafts into the water! Everybody get off! Get off the ship! Stay together!\"\n\nFrom 7:32 am on, the captain is heard trying to help the panicked helmsman, an able seaman, get off the bridge, with alarms ringing throughout. The captain repeatedly tells the helmsman not to panic: \"work your way up here,\" \"you're okay, come on,\" and \"I'm not leavin' you, let's go!\" The helmsman exclaims, \"I need a ladder! A line!\" and, \"I need someone to help me!\"\n\nAt 7:39 am, the VDR recording ends with the captain and AB still on the bridge.\n\nOn October 1, Hurricane Hunters WC-130J Super Hercules aircraft of the U.S. Air Force Reserve 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron tried to locate \"El Faro\" without success. On October 2, a Coast Guard HC-130H Hercules aircraft from CGAS Clearwater, Florida began a dedicated search for the ship. The USCGC \"Northland\" and a MH-60T Jayhawk helicopter from CGAS Clearwater, Florida joined search efforts later that day. United States Coast Guard MH-65C Dolphin Helicopters from CGAS Miami, Florida and CGAS Borinquen, Puerto Rico along with HC-144A Ocean Sentry Fixed Wing Patrol Aircraft from Miami were also present. Aircraft on October 3 flew in violent hurricane conditions, characterized by winds in excess of at an altitude of , waves up to , and visibility less than . Despite the hazardous conditions, a helicopter crew recovered a life ring from the vessel on this day. Conditions markedly improved on October 4 as Joaquin moved northeast away from the Bahamas; winds averaged and visibility was unlimited. Taking advantage of the clear weather, the helicopter remained in flight for 11 hours, requiring refueling twice. A second HC-130, the USCGC \"Charles Sexton\", and the USCGC \"Resolute\" were deployed that day. \"Northland\" and \"Resolute\" continued operations overnight with engineers using night vision goggles to take part in the search. The United States Navy provided P-8A Poseidon fixed wing aircraft from NAS. Jacksonville, Florida to assist on October 5; three Crowley Maritime tugboats also joined. Search operations were conducted at a near-continuous pace by this date.\n\nOn October 5, an unidentified body in a survival suit, presumed to be from \"El Faro\", was found but was not recovered. According to the rescue diver, the body was unrecognizable, its head three times normal size, and was left to be retrieved later in the day. However, a failure in the positioning device SLDMB ultimately resulted in losing the body. Several other unopened suits were recovered. A deflated life raft and a heavily damaged lifeboat—one of two aboard \"El Faro\", each capable of carrying 43 people and stocked with food and water for a few days—with no one aboard were also found. The vessel was declared lost at sea on this day, believed to have sunk in of water, and the search turned into a search-and-recovery effort. The United States Air Force and Air National Guard provided three additional HC-130P/J aircraft on October 6. A total of of water was covered in search of the vessel. Two debris fields were discovered: one covering situated near \"El Faro\"s final position, and the other spanning located northeast of the first debris field. At sunset on October 7, the Coast Guard announced the cessation of search operations.\n\nOn October 7, a Navy salvage team was requested, at the behest of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), to search for the wreckage. Florida Senator Bill Nelson wrote a letter to the NTSB urging them to look into TOTE's policies regarding severe weather. Nelson also cited that the vessel's lifeboats were \"outdated and inadequate for the conditions the crew faced.\" TOTE established a fund for families of the crew on October 9 through the Seamen's Church Institute of New York and New Jersey. On October 14, a $100 million lawsuit was filed against TOTE by a family member of one of the missing crew, citing negligence on the company's behalf in letting a non-seaworthy vessel sail into a hurricane. On October 28, another lawsuit was filed on behalf of the estate of a man who died in the sinking. The complaint stated that “without power, the M/V EL FARO was merely a cork in the sea as the Hurricane neared.” By April 19, 2016, TOTE Maritime had settled with 18 of the 33 families for more than $7 million.\n\nThe MV \"Isla Bella\" was chosen to replace \"El Faro\"s former operations.\n\nOn October 19, the USNS \"Apache\" departed from Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek–Fort Story in Virginia Beach, Virginia to conduct the underwater search for \"El Faro\". The vessel was equipped with a towed pinger locator, side-scan sonar, and a remotely operated vehicle. The search crew identified a vessel on October 31 at an approximate depth of . The hydrostatic pressure at this depth is approximately . The NTSB reported that the object was, \"consistent with a [] cargo ship...in an upright position and in one piece.\" On November 16, the National Transportation Safety Board announced it had completed its search of the sunken ship but did not find the voyage data recorder. On January 3, 2016, the NTSB opened the public accident docket on the investigation into sinking of \"El Faro\", initially releasing underwater images and video of the vessel.\n\nOn April 18, 2016, the NTSB, utilizing the RV \"Atlantis\", a Navy-owned vessel operated by mariners of Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, launched a second search for the ship's voyage data recorder (VDR). On April 26, the NTSB stated the voyage data recorder was found about northeast of Acklins and Crooked Islands, Bahamas. The NTSB was unable to retrieve the recorder at that time because of its proximity to the mast and other obstructions. On August 5, 2016, USNS \"Apache\" went back to the site. On August 9, 2016, the voyage data recorder was finally recovered from the wreckage by USNS \"Apache\", 10 months after the sinking. The VDR was then delivered to the NTSB in Mayport, FL to continue the investigation.\n\nThe Coast Guard \"El Faro\" Marine Board of Investigation completed its final report on September 24, 2017 and published it on October 1, 2017 in its document library. The 199-page Marine Board's Report detailed facts, analysis, and conclusions and made safety, administrative, and enforcement recommendations.\n\nCoast Guard investigators placed nearly all of the blame on Michael Davidson, \"El Faro\"s captain. Davidson underestimated the strength of the storm and the ship's ability to ride it out, and did not take enough measures to evade the storm, even though his crew raised concerns about its increasing strength and changing direction. Investigators stated that if Davidson had survived the storm, his actions would have been grounds for the Coast Guard to revoke his captain's license. \"(Davidson) was ultimately responsible for the vessel, the crew and its safe navigation,\" said Capt. Jason Neubauer, who chaired the investigation.\n\nCoast Guard investigators also lambasted TOTE Maritime,\" El Faro\"s owner, stating the company made several violations regarding crew members' rest periods and work hours, had no dedicated safety officer to oversee the \"El Faro\", and used outdated, \"open air\" lifeboats (similar to the types used on older vessels, such as the RMS \"Titanic\") instead of the modern-day enclosed survival crafts, among other violations.\n\nThe NTSB met in Washington, D.C. on December 12, 2017, to discuss contributing factors to the sinking as well as to \"vote on recommendations to address safety issues uncovered during the investigation.\" The board meeting was webcast live. The board's 400-page report: \nIn their final report,the NTSB determines\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6752471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6752471", "title": "Saliya Upul Aladeniya", "text": "Saliya Upul Aladeniya\n\nCaptain Samarakoon Wasala Mudiyanselage Saliya Upul Aladeniya, PWV, SLRS (In Sinhalese: කපිතාන් සාලිය උපුල් අලදෙනිය; 1 March 1963 – 11 June 1990) was Sri Lankan soldier and the second recipient of the Parama Weera Vibhushanaya, highest war time award for valor of Sri Lanka. He was commanding the small army detachment at Kokavil, when it was surrounded he refused to abandon the injured and fought until they were overrun by LTTE. \n\nBorn in Kandy, his father was a Captain in the Ceylon Army Volunteer Force. Educated at Trinity College Kandy, he joined the Sri Lanka Army in 1989 as a volunteer officer. Following a short commissioning course at the Sri Lanka Military Academy, he was commissioned as Second Lieutenant into the 2nd(v) Battalion, Sri Lanka Sinha Regiment and served with it in Nuwara Eliya.\n\nIn May, Lieutenant Aladeniya and his platoon was deployed to an isolated army outpost at Kokuvla (Kokavil) that was established for guarding the television relay station. The camp was surrounded for several days by LTTE cadres who outnumbered them five to one. The food and water were running out in the camp and so was the ammunition. In spite of many requests, reinforcements sent from Wanni headquarters never reached Kokavil, having been diverted elsewhere. On July 11, orders to withdraw from the camp came at the eleventh hour but then it was too late and Aladeniya had wounded men whom he did not want to leave behind. Pledging that he would rather die alongside them than leave them, Lt. Aladeniya fought on till an adjacent fuel dump exploded, killing the majority of the defenders in the camp. Since his body was not recovered he has been listed as missing in action. \n\nAladeniya was posthumously promoted to rank of Captain and awarded the Parama Weera Vibhushanaya medal on June 21, 1994. In offensive operations in 2009, the Sri Lanka Army recaptured Kokavil. In 2011, the transmition tower was rebuilt and a monument to Aladeniya and his men was built.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13117787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13117787", "title": "Spiritual reading", "text": "Spiritual reading\n\nSpiritual reading is a practice of reading books and articles about spirituality with the purpose of growing in holiness.\n\nSpiritual reading is devoted to the reading of lives of saints, writings of Doctors and the Fathers of the Church, theological works written by holy people, and doctrinal writings of Church authorities. It is different from lectio divina which focuses on the bible.\n\nThe biblical basis is St. Paul's advice \"Attend to reading\" (1 Tim 4:13) which meant that Timothy his disciple should \"apply to the reading of holy books, not in a passing way and for a short time, but regularly and for a considerable time,\" said St. Alphonsus Liguori, Doctor of the Catholic Church on Moral theology. St. Bernard of Clairvaux said that \"spiritual reading and prayer are the arms by which hell is conquered and paradise won.\"\n\nThe biblical basis of this practice is St. Paul's advice to his disciple Timothy whom he appointed bishop. St. Paul told him to \"Attend to reading.\" The word \"attend\" an allusion to the many other concerns that a bishop has to attend to. By this, according to St. Alphonsus Liguori, Doctor of the Church on Moral theology, the Apostle Paul \"wished him to apply to the reading of holy books, not in a passing way and for a short time, but regularly and for a considerable time.\"\n\nThe Fathers of the Church recommended this practice: St. Jerome says that when we pray we speak to God; but when we read, God speaks to us. St. Ambrose of Milan says the same: \"We address him when we pray; we hear him when we read.\"\n\nSpiritual reading is an instruction in prayer and virtue, according to St. Bernard of Clairvaux, and thus he said that \"spiritual reading and prayer are the arms by which hell is conquered and paradise won.\" St. Josemaría Escrivá explained that spiritual reading \"builds up a store of fuel. — It looks like a lifeless heap, but I often find that my memory, of its own accord, will draw from it material which fills my prayer with life and inflames my thanksgiving after Communion.\" (The Way 117)\n\nSpiritual reading provides access to spiritual advice from masters of spirituality, says St. Alphonsus Liguori. Thus, St. Pius X further thoroughly explained:\n\n\"When I read holy books,\" says St. Gregory the Theologian about the books of St. Basil the Great, \"then the spirit and body are illumined and I become the temple of God and the harp of the Holy Spirit, played by divine powers through them I am corrected and through them I receive a kind of divine change and I am made into a different person.\"\n\nReading of holy books is also a way to fight temptations: \"Endeavor to have always in your hand a pious book,\" advised St. Jerome to his disciple Salvina, \"that with this shield you may defend yourself against bad thoughts.\"\n\nAll the founders of religious institutes have strongly recommended this holy exercise to their religious, said St. Alphonsus.\n\nThroughout the history of Christian spirituality, spiritual reading has been seen to be of great benefit to many souls, and according to St. Pius X, \"There are many striking examples of the salutary effects of the reading of pious books.\"\n\nSome examples are:\n\n\nSt. Alphonsus recommends some principles and attitudes for spiritual reading.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17467575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17467575", "title": "Telishment", "text": "Telishment\n\nTelishment is a term coined by John Rawls to illustrate a problem of the utilitarian view of punishment. Telishment is an act by the authorities of punishing a suspect in order to deter future wrongdoers, even though they know that the suspect is innocent. If supporters of these theories believe in the effectiveness of telishment as a deterrent, opponents claim that they must bite the bullet and also hold that telishment is ethically justified.\n\n"}
{"id": "164217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164217", "title": "Tobacco mosaic virus", "text": "Tobacco mosaic virus\n\nTobacco mosaic virus (TMV) is a positive-sense single stranded RNA virus, genus tobamovirus that infects a wide range of plants, especially tobacco and other members of the family Solanaceae. The infection causes characteristic patterns, such as \"mosaic\"-like mottling and discoloration on the leaves (hence the name). TMV was the first virus ever to be discovered. Although it was known from the late 19th century that an infectious disease was damaging tobacco crops, it was not until 1930 that the infectious agent was determined to be a virus. It is the first pathogen identified as a virus.\n\nIn 1886, Adolf Mayer first described the tobacco mosaic disease that could be transferred between plants, similar to bacterial infections. In 1892, Dmitri Ivanovsky gave the first concrete evidence for the existence of a non-bacterial infectious agent, showing that infected sap remained infectious even after filtering through finest Chamberland filters. Later, in 1903, Ivanovsky published a paper describing abnormal crystal intracellular inclusions in the host cells of the affected tobacco plants and argued the connection between these inclusions and the infectious agent. However, Ivanovsky remained rather convinced, despite repeated failures to produce evidence, that the causal agent was an unculturable bacterium, too small to be retained on the employed Chamberland filters and to be detected in the light microscope. In 1898, Martinus Beijerinck independently replicated Ivanovsky's filtration experiments and then showed that the infectious agent was able to reproduce and multiply in the host cells of the tobacco plant. Beijerinck coined the term of \"virus\" to indicate that the causal agent of tobacco mosaic disease was of non-bacterial nature. Tobacco mosaic virus was the first virus to be crystallized. It was achieved by Wendell Meredith Stanley in 1935 who also showed that TMV remains active even after crystallization. For his work, he was awarded 1/3 of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1946, even though it was later shown some of his conclusions (in particular, that the crystals were pure protein, and assembled by autocatalysis) were incorrect. The first electron microscopical images of TMV were made in 1939 by Gustav Kausche, Edgar Pfankuch and Helmut Ruska – the brother of Nobel Prize winner Ernst Ruska. In 1955, Heinz Fraenkel-Conrat and Robley Williams showed that purified TMV RNA and its capsid (coat) protein assemble by themselves to functional viruses, indicating that this is the most stable structure (the one with the lowest free energy).\nThe crystallographer Rosalind Franklin worked for Stanley for about a month at Berkeley, and later designed and built a model of TMV for the 1958 World's Fair at Brussels. In 1958, she speculated that the virus was hollow, not solid, and hypothesized that the RNA of TMV is single-stranded. This conjecture was proven to be correct after her death and is now known to be the + strand. The investigations of tobacco mosaic disease and subsequent discovery of its viral nature were instrumental in the establishment of the general concepts of virology.\n\nTobacco mosaic virus has a rod-like appearance. Its capsid is made from 2130 molecules of coat protein (see image to the left) and one molecule of genomic single strand RNA, 6400 bases long. The coat protein self-assembles into the rod-like helical structure (16.3 proteins per helix turn) around the RNA, which forms a hairpin loop structure (see the electron micrograph above). The protein monomer consists of 158 amino acids which are assembled into four main alpha-helices, which are joined by a prominent loop proximal to the axis of the virion. Virions are ~300 nm in length and ~18 nm in diameter. Negatively stained electron microphotographs show a distinct inner channel of ~4 nm. The RNA is located at a radius of ~6 nm and is protected from the action of cellular enzymes by the coat protein. There are three RNA nucleotides per protein monomer. X-ray fiber diffraction structure of the intact virus was studied based on an electron density map at 3.6 Å resolution. Inside the core helix, coiled RNA molecule is present, which is made up of nearly 6500 nucleotides.\n\nThe TMV genome consists of a 6.3-6.5 kb single-stranded (ss) RNA. The 3’-terminus has a tRNA-like structure, and the 5’ terminus has a methylated nucleotide cap. (m7G5’pppG). The genome encodes 4 open reading frames (ORFs), two of which produce a single protein due to ribosomal readthrough of a leaky UAG stop codon. The 4 genes encode a replicase (with methyltransferase [MT] and RNA helicase [Hel] domains), an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, a so-called movement protein (MP) and a capsid protein (CP).\n\nTMV is a thermostable virus. On a dried leaf, it can withstand up to 50 °C (120 degree Fahrenheit) for 30 minutes.\n\nTMV has an index of refraction of about 1.57.\n\nTMV does not have a distinct overwintering structure. Rather, it will over-winter in infected tobacco stalks and leaves in the soil, on the surface of contaminated seed (TMV can even survive in contaminated tobacco products for many years). With the direct contact with host plants through its vectors (normally insects such as aphids and leafhoppers), TMV will go through the infection process and then the replication process.\n\nAfter its multiplication, it enters the neighboring cells through plasmodesmata. The infection spreads by direct contact to the neighboring cells, For its smooth entry, TMV produces a 30 kDa movement protein called P30 which enlarges the plasmodesmata. TMV most likely moves from cell-to-cell as a complex of the RNA, P30, and replicate proteins.\n\nIt can also spread through phloem for longer distance movement within the plant. Moreover, TMV can be transmitted from one plant to another by direct contact. Although TMV does not have defined transmission vectors, the virus can be easily transmitted from the infected hosts to the healthy plants, by human handling.\n\nFollowing entry into its host via mechanical inoculation, TMV uncoats itself to release its viral [+]RNA strand. As uncoating occurs, the MetHel:Pol gene is translated to make the capping enzyme MetHel and the RNA Polymerase. Then the viral genome will further replicate to produce multiple mRNAs via a [-]RNA intermediate primed by the tRNA at the [+]RNA 3' end. The resulting mRNAs encode several proteins, including the coat protein and an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), as well as the movement protein. Thus TMV can replicate its own genome. \n\nAfter the coat protein and RNA genome of TMV have been synthesized, they spontaneously assemble into complete TMV virions in a highly organized process. The protomers come together to form disks or 'lockwashers' composed of two layers of protomers arranged in a helix. The helical capsid grows by the addition of protomers to the end of the rod. As the rod lengthens, the RNA passes through a channel in its center and forms a loop at the growing end. In this way the RNA can easily fit as a spiral into the interior of the helical capsid.\n\nLike other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. The tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, and a number of ornamental flowers. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a \"mosaic\" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to \"mosaic burn\" especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless.\n\nTMV is known as one of the most stable viruses. It has a very wide survival range. As long as the surrounding temperature remains below approximately 40 degrees Celsius, TMV can sustain its stable form. All it needs is a host to infect. If necessary, greenhouses and botanical gardens would provide the most favorable condition for TMV to spread out, due to the high population density of possible hosts and the constant temperature throughout the year.\n\nOne of the common control methods for TMV is sanitation, which includes removing infected plants and washing hands in between each planting. Crop rotation should also be employed to avoid infected soil/seed beds for at least two years. As for any plant disease, looking for resistant strains against TMV may also be advised. Furthermore, the cross protection method can be administered, where the stronger strain of TMV infection is inhibited by infecting the host plant with mild strain of TMV, similar to the effect of a vaccine.\n\nIn the past ten years, the application of genetic engineering on a host plant genome has been developed to allow the host plant to produce the TMV coat protein within their cells. It was hypothesized that the TMV genome will be re-coated rapidly upon entering the host cell, thus it prevents the initiation of TMV replication. Later it was found that the mechanism that protects the host from viral genome insertion is through gene silencing.\n\nThe large amount of literature about TMV and its choice for many pioneering investigations in structural biology (including X-ray diffraction), virus assembly and disassembly, and so on, are fundamentally due to the large quantities that can be obtained, plus the fact that it does not infect animals. After growing a few infected tobacco plants in a greenhouse and a few simple laboratory procedures, a scientist can easily produce several grams of the virus.\n\nJames D. Watson, in his memoir \"The Double Helix\", cites his x-ray investigation of TMV's helical structure as an important step in deducing the nature of the DNA molecule.\n\nDue to its cylindrical shape, high aspect-ratio, self-assembling nature, and ability to incorporate metal coatings (nickel and cobalt) into its shell, TMV is an ideal candidate to be incorporated into battery electrodes. Addition of TMV to a battery electrode increases the reactive surface area by an order of magnitude, resulting in an increase in the battery's capacity by up to six times compared to a planar electrode geometry.\n\n\n"}
