{"id": "1435000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1435000", "title": "Abaúj-Torna County", "text": "Abaúj-Torna County\n\nAbaúj-Torna (, , ) was an administrative county (comitatus) of the Kingdom of Hungary. Its capital was Kassa (present-day Košice). Its territory is now in eastern Slovakia and north-eastern Hungary.\n\nAround 1910, Abaúj-Torna county shared borders with the counties Gömör-Kishont, Szepes, Sáros, Zemplén, and Borsod. The rivers Hernád and Bódva flowed through the county. Its area was 3317 km² around 1910.\n\nThe county Abaúj-Torna was a combination of the counties Abaúj and Torna. It existed in three periods in the 18th, 19th and 20th century: first from 1785 until 1790, again from 1848 until 1859, and finally from 1882 until the end of World War I.\n\nIn the aftermath of World War I, the northern part of Abaúj-Torna county became part of newly formed Czechoslovakia (as \"Abovskoturnianska župa\"), as recognized by the concerned states in the 1920 Treaty of Trianon. It continued to exist as an administrative unit until 1922. The southern half stayed in Hungary as the county Abaúj-Torna, with capital Szikszó.\n\nFollowing the provisions of the First Vienna Award, most of the Czechoslovak part was returned to Hungary in November 1938. It was added to the county Abaúj-Torna, with capital Kassa (present-day Košice). After World War II, the Trianon border was restored, and the Hungarian county Abaúj-Torna merged with the county Borsod and the Hungarian part of Zemplén to form the present Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. Since 1993, when Czechoslovakia was split, the northern part of Abaúj-Torna is part of Slovakia's Košice Region.\n\nIn 1900, the county had a population of 196,462 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nAccording to the census of 1900, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nIn 1910, the county had a population of 202,288 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nAccording to the census of 1910, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nIn 1941: 203,438 Hungarians, 18,879 Slovaks, 2581 Bunjevacs, 904 Germans, 623 Roma, 256 Ruthenians, 72 Romanians, 3 Croatians, 105 other; 140,377 Roman Catholics, 45,384 Protestants, 22,476 Greek Catholics, 14,764 Jewish, 4773 Evangelicals, 339 Greek Orthodox, 116 Baptists and 55 Unitarians.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the subdivisions of Abaúj-Torna were:\n\nThe towns Füzér, Szikszó, Gönc and Abaújszántó are now in Hungary.\n\n"}
{"id": "55000082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55000082", "title": "Achita (crater)", "text": "Achita (crater)\n\nAchita is a large crater on Ceres.\n\nThe crater is named after Achita, a Nigerian god of agriculture.\n"}
{"id": "143693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143693", "title": "Adriano Balbi", "text": "Adriano Balbi\n\nAdriano Balbi (April 25, 1782 – March 14, 1848), Italian geographer, was born at Venice. The publication of his \"Prospetto politico-geografico dello stato attuale del globo\" (Venice, 1808) obtained his election to the chair of professor of geography at the college of San Michele at Murano; in 1811–1813 he was professor of physics at the Lyceum of Fermo, and afterwards became attached to the customs office at his native city.\n\nIn 1820 he visited Portugal, and there collected materials for his \"Essai statistique sur le royaume de Portugal et d’Algarve\", published in 1822 at Paris, where the author resided from 1821 until 1832. This was followed by \"Variétés politiques et statistiques de la monarchie portugaise\", which contains some observations respecting that country under the Roman sway. In 1826 he published the first volume of his \"Atlas ethnographique du globe, ou classification des peuples anciens et modernes d’après leurs langues\", a work of great erudition. In 1829 he published, with Andre-Michel Guerry, \"Statistique comparée de l'état de l'instruction et du nombre des crimes dans les divers arrondissements des Académies et des Cours Royales de France\", the first comparative choropleth map showing crime in relation to level of instruction.\n\nIn 1832 appeared the \"Abrégé de Geographie\", which, in an enlarged form, was translated. into the principal languages of Europe. Balbi retired to Padua and there died in 1848.\n\nHis son, Eugenio Balbi (1812–1884), followed a similar career, being professor of geography at Pavia, and publishing his father's \"Scritti Geografici\" (Turin, 1841), and original works in \"Gea, ossia la terra\" (Trieste, 1854–1867) and \"Saggio di geografia\" (Milan, 1868).\n"}
{"id": "22827776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22827776", "title": "Alastair M. Taylor", "text": "Alastair M. Taylor\n\nAlastair MacDonald Taylor (March 12, 1915 – October 15, 2005) was a Canadian historian, filmmaker, United Nations official, professor of geography and political studies, and interdisciplinary thinker. He co-authored the first world-history textbook published in the United States. He played an active role in, and became the leading chronicler of, the diplomatic intervention by the United Nations to secure the independence of Indonesia. He was also among the first to apply systems theory to the historical development of human societies.\n\nTaylor was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, in 1915, the youngest son of Scottish immigrants. In 1930 the family moved to California, where he attended Hollywood High School and then the University of Southern California, from which he graduated \"summa cum laude\" in 1937. The topic of his Master's thesis at USC was \"The Decline of Scottish Monasticism in the Fifteenth Century\". At age 22 he collaborated with T. Walter Wallbank to begin writing \"Civilization Past and Present\". The first world-history textbook in the United States, and a best-seller since its initial appearance in 1942, it was published in many editions for over six decades and was familiar to generations of students.\n\nIn 1942 Taylor returned to Canada to enlist in the armed forces, but was recruited to the National Film Board in Ottawa, where he worked for pioneering documentary filmmaker John Grierson, making films for the war effort. Taylor himself directed two short films focusing on the situation of Canadian workers in the domestic wartime economy.\n\nBetween 1944 and 1952 Taylor worked for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration in Washington, D.C. and then for the UN Secretariat in New York City. At UNRRA he was a speechwriter for Herbert Lehman, former governor of New York state, and then for Fiorello La Guardia, former mayor of New York City. Taylor became the Official Spokesman of the Security Council's United Nations Commission for Indonesia, which oversaw the peace settlement between the Netherlands and its former colony. In this capacity he spent several months in Indonesia in 1949 and 1950 and also attended the Dutch-Indonesian Round Table Conference in The Hague, Netherlands.\n\nTaylor received his doctorate from Balliol College, Oxford, in 1955. His dissertation was the basis for his book \"Indonesian Independence and the United Nations\" (1960), with a foreword by Lester B. Pearson. Upon its publication, this work was hailed as a \"brilliant study of the protracted negotiations that led to Indonesia's independence\" and as \"the fullest, most accurate, and least biased\" treatment in print of the UN's role.\n\nIn 1960 Taylor joined the faculty of Queen's University at Kingston, Ontario, where he taught in both the Geography and Political Studies departments until 1980. At Queen's, in the early 1960s, he developed his systems-theory model of the historical evolution of human societies, which he designated Time-Space-Technics (TST). TST understands human societies as instances of open natural systems equilibrating with their environments in a hierarchy of integrative levels. It identifies an evolutionary sequence of world-views that organize societal systems at the different levels. Taylor named these world-views \"Mythos\", \"Theos\", \"Logos\", and \"Holos\". TST focuses on the interplay and tension between what Taylor called \"material technics\" and \"societal technics\", and attempts to identify factors responsible for fracturing a system's equilibrium and quantizing it to a different level of societal organization (either more or less complex). Taylor published a number of articles about the TST model and in his last years was preparing a book-length exposition of his ideas. He believed that modern society stands at a critical juncture: although industrial society has become culturally and environmentally unsustainable, we have the opportunity to replace it with new values and institutions appropriate to a sustainable global civilization.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15243603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15243603", "title": "Almeirim, São Tomé and Principe", "text": "Almeirim, São Tomé and Principe\n\nAlmeirim is a village on São Tomé Island in the nation of São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 1,591 (2012 census). It is in the southern part of the Água Grande District and borders the city São Tomé to the northeast.\n"}
{"id": "470457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=470457", "title": "Antipodes", "text": "Antipodes\n\nIn geography, the antipode () of any spot on Earth is the point on Earth's surface diametrically opposite to it; the antipodes of a region similarly represent the area opposite it. A pair of points \"antipodal\" () to each other are situated such that a straight line connecting the two would pass through Earth's center. Such points are as far away from each other as possible, a great-circle distance of up to on the equator.\n\nIn the Northern Hemisphere, \"the Antipodes\" may be used to refer to Australia and New Zealand, and \"Antipodeans\" to their inhabitants. Geographically, the antipodes of Britain and Ireland are in the Pacific Ocean, south of New Zealand. This gave rise to the name of the Antipodes Islands of New Zealand, which are close to the antipode of London at about . The antipodes of Australia are in the North Atlantic Ocean, while parts of Spain, Portugal, and Morocco are antipodal to New Zealand.\n\nApproximately 15% of land territory is antipodal to other land, representing approximately 4.4% of the Earth's surface. The largest antipodal land masses are the Malay Archipelago, antipodal to the Amazon Basin and adjoining Andean ranges; east China and Mongolia, antipodal to Chile and Argentina; and Greenland and the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, antipodal to East Antarctica.\nThere is a general paucity of antipodal land because the Southern hemisphere has fairly little land, and of that, the antipodes of Australia are in the North Atlantic Ocean, while the antipodes of Africa are in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe antipode of any place on the Earth is the place that is diametrically opposite it, so a line drawn from the one to the other passes through the centre of the Earth and forms a true diameter. For example, the antipodes of New Zealand's lower North Island lie in Spain. Most of the Earth's land surfaces have ocean at their antipodes, this being a consequence of most land being in the land hemisphere.\n\nThe singular \"antipode\" is a back-formation (c. 1540-50 CE) from the plural \"antipodes\", which in Greek is the plural of the singular \"antipous\".\n\nThe antipode of any place on Earth is distant from it by 180° of longitude and as many degrees to the north of the Equator as the original is to the south (or vice versa); in other words, the latitudes are numerically equal, but one is north and the other south. The maps shown here are based on this relationship; they show a Lambert azimuthal equal-area projection of the Earth, in yellow, overlaid on which is another map, in blue, shifted horizontally by 180° of longitude and inverted about the Equator with respect to latitude.\n\nNoon at one place is midnight at the other (ignoring daylight saving time and irregularly shaped time zones) and, with the exception of the tropics, the longest day at one point corresponds to the shortest day at the other, and midwinter at one point coincides with midsummer at the other. Sunrise and sunset do not quite oppose each other at antipodes due to refraction of sunlight.\n\nIf the geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) of a point on the Earth's surface are (\"φ\", \"θ\"), then the coordinates of the antipodal point are (−\"φ\", \"θ\" ± 180°). This relation holds true whether the Earth is approximated as a perfect sphere or as a reference ellipsoid.\n\nIn terms of the usual way these geographic coordinates are given, this transformation can be expressed symbolically as\n\nthat is, for the latitude (the North/South coordinate) the magnitude of the angle remains the same but N is changed to S and vice versa, and for the longitude (the East/West coordinate) the angle is replaced by its supplementary angle while E is exchanged for W. For example, the antipode of the point in China at (a few hundred kilometres from Beijing) is the point in Argentina at (a few hundred kilometres from Buenos Aires).\n\nThe word \"antipodes\" comes from the Greek: ἀντίποδες (antípodes), plural of ἀντίπους (antipous), \"with feet opposite (ours)\", from ἀντί (antí, “opposite”) + πούς (poús, “foot”). The Greek word is attested in Plato's dialogue \"Timaeus\", already referring to a spherical Earth, explaining the relativity of the terms \"above\" and \"below\":\nThe term is taken up by Aristotle (\"De caelo\" 308a.20), Strabo, Plutarch and Diogenes Laertius, and was adopted into Latin as \"antipodes\". The Latin word changed its sense from the original \"under the feet, opposite side\" to \"those with the feet opposite\", i.e. a bahuvrihi referring to hypothetical people living on the opposite side of the Earth. Medieval illustrations imagine them in some way \"inverted\", with their feet growing out of their heads, pointing upward.\n\nIn this sense, \"Antipodes\" first entered English in 1398 in a translation of the 13th century \"De Proprietatibus Rerum\" by Bartholomeus Anglicus, translated by John of Trevisa:\n\nPomponius Mela, the first Roman geographer, asserted that the earth had two habitable zones, a North and South one, but that it would be impossible to get into contact with each other because of the unbearable heat at the Equator.\nFrom the time of St Augustine, the Christian church was skeptical of the notion. Augustine asserted that \"it is too absurd to say that some men might have set sail from this side and, traversing the immense expanse of ocean, have propagated there a race of human beings descended from that one first man.\"\n\nIn the Early Middle Ages, Isidore of Seville's widely read encyclopedia presented the term \"antipodes\" as referring to antichthones (people who lived on the opposite side of the Earth), as well as to a geographical place; these people came to play a role in medieval discussions about the shape of the Earth. In 748, in reply to a letter from Saint Boniface, Pope Zachary declared the belief \"that beneath the earth there was another world and other men, another sun and moon\" to be heretical. In his letter, Boniface had apparently maintained that Vergilius of Salzburg held such a belief.\n\nThe antipodes being an attribute of a spherical Earth, some ancient authors used their perceived absurdity as an argument for a flat Earth. However, knowledge of the spherical Earth was widespread during the Middle Ages, only occasionally disputed — the medieval dispute surrounding the antipodes mainly concerned the question whether people could live on the opposite side of the earth: since the torrid clime was considered impassable, it would have been impossible to evangelize them. This posed the problem that Christ told the apostles to evangelize all mankind; with regard to the unreachable antipodes, this would have been impossible. Christ would either have appeared a second time, in the antipodes, or left the damned irredeemable. Such an argument was forwarded by the Spanish theologian Alonso Tostado as late as the 15th century and \"St. Augustine doubts\" was a response to Columbus's proposal to sail westwards to the Indies.\n\nThe author of the Norwegian book \"Konungs Skuggsjá\", from around 1250, discusses the existence of antipodes. He notes that (if they exist) they will see the sun in the north in the middle of the day and that they will have seasons opposite those of the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nThe earliest surviving account by a European who had visited the Southern Hemisphere is that of Marco Polo (who, on his way home in 1292, sailed south of the Malay Peninsula). He noted that it was impossible to see the star Polaris from there.\n\nThe idea of dry land in the southern climes, the \"Terra Australis\", was introduced by Ptolemy and appears on European maps as an imaginary continent from the 15th century. In spite of having been discovered relatively late by European explorers, Australia was inhabited very early in human history; the ancestors of the Indigenous Australians reached it at least 50,000 years ago.\n\nTo make the longest distance trip around the planet a traveler would have to pass through a set of antipodal points. All meridians can be crossed in one hemisphere--indeed, by walking around one of the poles--but such trips are shorter than a maximum circumnavigation. On the other hand, the greatest straight line distance that could in theory be covered is a trip exactly on the Equator. The Earth's equatorial bulge makes this slightly longer than one north-south around the world along a set of meridian lines, or on any other closed great circle route traveling at an angle. In any of these cases after half the world is passed every subsequent point will be antipodal to one already visited.\n\nThere are no non-stop scheduled flights between any two antipodal locations by commercial airline service—or anything even close. There is currently no commercial aircraft capable of travelling between antipodes at full load non-stop. (The current record holder Boeing 777-200LR's maximum range is rated at .) There are also regulations regarding pilot's work time, so relief crewmembers would be needed.\n\nThe longest non-stop scheduled flight was the Singapore Airlines Flight 21 between Newark, New Jersey and Singapore, covering about in about 17 hours and 52 minutes of flight time, and this was far from a journey between nearly antipodal locations. Among flights with fuel stop and crew-change stop but still same flight number, Air New Zealand has one of the longest, Auckland–Los Angeles–London, at over Los Angeles ( directly).\n\nA hypothetically perfect antipode flight would be Tangier Ibn Battouta Airport, Morocco (IATA: TNG) to Whangarei Aerodrome, New Zealand (IATA: WRE), whose designated locators are 10,800 nautical miles (20,001 km) apart, the maximum possible distance, but their actual runways cross in projection. However, with only a length of , Whangarei's runway is too short to accommodate any current () commercial jet airliner, especially one with the required range. Traveling between them would presently need at least three plane changes, e.g. Paris–Los Angeles–Auckland. Taipei and Asuncion are apart; Santiago and Xian are apart; Madrid and Auckland are apart; Buenos Aires and Beijing are apart; Johannesburg and Honolulu are apart; New York City and Perth are apart.\n\nAround 71% of the Earth's surface is covered by oceans, and seven-eighths of the Earth's land is confined to the land hemisphere, so the majority of locations on land do not have land-based antipodes.\n\nThe two largest human inhabited antipodal areas are located in East Asia (mainly eastern China) and South America (mainly northern Argentina and Chile).\nThe Australian mainland is the largest landmass with its antipodes entirely in ocean, although some locations of mainland Australia and Tasmania are close to being antipodes of islands (Bermuda, Azores, Puerto Rico) in the North Atlantic Ocean. \nThe largest landmass with antipodes entirely on land is the island of Borneo, whose antipodes are in the Amazon rainforest.\n\nExact or almost exact antipodes:\n\nTo within , with at least one major city (population of at least 1 million):\nTaiwan (formerly called Formosa) is partly antipodal to the province of Formosa in Argentina.\n\nOther major cities or capitals close to being antipodes:\n\nGibraltar is approximately antipodal to Te Arai Beach about north of Auckland, New Zealand. This illustrates the old yet correct saying that the sun never sets on the British Empire; the sun still does not set on the Commonwealth of Nations.\n\nThe northern part of New Caledonia, an overseas territory of France, is antipodal to some thinly populated desert in Mauritania, a part of the former French West Africa. Portions of Suriname, a former Dutch colony, are antipodal to Sulawesi, an Indonesian island spelled \"Celebes\" when it was part of the Netherlands East Indies. Luzon, the largest island of the Philippines, is antipodal to eastern Bolivia. As with the British Empire, the sun set neither on the French Empire, the Dutch Empire, nor the Spanish Empire at their peaks.\n\nSanta Vitória do Palmar, the most southerly town of more than 10,000 people in Brazil, is antipodal to Jeju Island, the southernmost territory of South Korea.\n\nThe Big Island of Hawaii is antipodal to the Okavango Delta in Botswana, with the island's largest city, Hilo, antipodal to Nxai Pan National Park.\n\nEaster Island is antipodal to Desert National Park, from Jaisalmer, India.\n\nKiritimati, the largest island of Kiribati and the largest coral atoll in the world, is antipodal to Salonga National Park, which is the largest national park of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the largest tropical rainforest reserve in Africa.\n\nSerra da Estrela Natural Park, the largest natural park of Portugal, is antipodal to Kahurangi National Park, the second largest national park of New Zealand.\n\nDesolate Kerguelen Island is antipodal to an area of thinly inhabited plains on the border between the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan and the US state of Montana.\n\nThe Heard Island and McDonald Islands, an uninhabited Australian territory, is antipodal to an area in central Saskatchewan, including the towns of Leask and Shellbrook.\n\nTigres Island, the largest uninhabited island of Angola, is approximately antipodal to Johnston atoll, which is the third largest uninhabited island of the United States.\n\nSt. Paul Island and Amsterdam Island are antipodal to thinly populated parts of the eastern part of the US state of Colorado.\n\nSouth Georgia Island is antipodal to the northernmost part of Sakhalin Island.\n\nLake Baikal is partially antipodal to the Straits of Magellan.\n\nThe Russian Antarctic research base Bellingshausen Station is antipodal to a land location in Russian Siberia.\n\nRottnest Island, off the coast of Western Australia, is approximately antipodal to Bermuda.\n\nCocos (Keeling) Islands, an Australian external territory in the Indian Ocean, is almost antipodal to Nicaragua's Corn Islands.\n\nFlores Island, the westernmost island of the Azores, is nearly antipodal to Flinders Island between Tasmania and the Australian mainland.\n\nPoint Nemo, the point in the South Pacific Ocean most distant from any other land, is precisely opposite a desolate piece of desert in western Kazakhstan.\n\nBy definition, the North Pole and the South Pole are antipodes.\n\nNull Island, , at the intersection of the prime meridian and the equator, has its antipodes at , at the intersection of the antimeridian and the equator. This point lies northeast of Nikunau in the Gilbert Islands and southwest of Baker Island, a United States territory.\n\nAs can be seen on the purple/blue map, the Pacific Ocean is so large that it stretches halfway around the world; parts of the Pacific off the coast of Peru are antipodal to parts of the same ocean off the coast of Southeast Asia. For example, the island of Ko Chang - which is the second or third largest island in Thailand - is nearly antipodal to San Lorenzo Island, which is the largest island of Peru.\n\nThe following countries are opposite more than one other country. (Antarctica is considered separately from any territorial claims.)\nCountries matching up with just one other country are Morocco, Spain, Chad, Libya, Cameroon (with the Cook Islands of New Zealand); Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia (with French Polynesia); Senegal (Vanuatu); the UAE (Pitcairn); Ghana, Ivory Coast (Tuvalu); Burkina Faso (Rotuma in Fiji); Guinea (Solomon Islands); India (Easter Island); Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, and Thailand (all with Peru); Singapore (Ecuador); Brunei, Palau, Micronesia (all with Brazil); Venezuela and Suriname (Indonesia).\n\nOf these, the larger countries which are entirely antipodal to land are the Philippines, Malaysia, Taiwan, Fiji, Vanuatu, Brunei, and Samoa. Chile was as well prior to its expansion into the Atacama with the War of the Pacific.\n\nIn a number of cases on extraterrestrial bodies in the Solar System, unusual geologic features (e.g., jumbled terrain or unique volcanic constructs) are located antipodal to major impact basins. It has been hypothesized that this results from focusing of some of the seismic waves (p-waves and surface waves) produced by an impact at its antipode.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3731884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3731884", "title": "Arctic Cape", "text": "Arctic Cape\n\nThe Arctic Cape (, \"Mys Arkticheskiy\") is a headland in Severnaya Zemlya, Russia.\n\nWith a distance of 990.7 km to the North Pole, the Arctic Cape is sometimes used as starting point for expeditions to the North Pole.\nStretching out towards the Arctic Ocean by the Molotov Glacier, it is the northernmost point of Komsomolets Island, which in turn is the northernmost island of the archipelago. Under Joseph Stalin the cape was known as Cape Molotov.\n\nThe Arctic Cape is not the northernmost point of Russia. That distinction goes to Cape Fligely (mys Fligeli) on Rudolf Island (ostrov Rudolfa), an island in the Franz Josef Land archipelago. The northernmost point of mainland Asia is Cape Chelyuskin.\n\nThis cape also marks the Kara Sea's northeastern limit, which is the eastern end of a line running from Cape Kohlsaat in Franz Josef Land to the Arctic Cape.\n"}
{"id": "457220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457220", "title": "Bamyan Province", "text": "Bamyan Province\n\nBamyan Province () is one of the thirty-four provinces of Afghanistan, located in the central highlands of the country. Its terrain is mountainous or semi-mountainous. The province is divided into six districts, with the town of Bamyan serving as its capital. The province has a population of about 455,000. It is the largest province in the Hazarajat region of Afghanistan, and is the cultural capital of the Hazara ethnic group that predominates in the area.\n\nIts name can be translated as \"The Place of Shining Light\". In antiquity, central Afghanistan was strategically placed to thrive from the Silk Road caravans that criss-crossed the region, trading between the Roman Empire, China, Central Asia and South Asia. Bamyan was a stopping-off point for many travellers. It was here that elements of Greek and Buddhist art were combined into a unique classical style known as Greco-Buddhist art.\n\nThe province has several famous historical sites, including the now-destroyed Buddhas of Bamiyan, around which are more than 3,000 caves, the Band-e Amir National Park, Dara-i-Ajhdar, Gholghola and Zakhak ancient towns, the Feroz Bahar, Astopa, Klegan, Gaohargin, Kaferan and Cheldukhtaran. \n\nBamyan map created by Mr. Akbar Ahmadi on 2017 via QGIS.\nBamyan map link\n\nArchaeological exploration done in the 20th century suggests that the geographical area of Afghanistan has been closely connected by culture and trade with its neighbors to the east, west, and north. Artifacts typical of the Paleolithic, Mesolithic, Neolithic, Bronze, and Iron ages have been found in Afghanistan. Urban civilization is believed to have begun as early as 3000 BCE, and the early city of Mundigak (near Kandahar in the south of the country) may have been a colony of the nearby Indus Valley Civilization.\n\nAfter 2000 BCE, successive waves of semi-nomadic people from Central Asia began moving south into Afghanistan; among them were many Indo-European-speaking Indo-Iranians. These tribes later migrated further south to India, west to what is now Iran, and towards Europe via the area north of the Caspian Sea. The region as a whole was called Ariana.\n\nThe people shared similar culture with other Indo-Iranians. The ancient religion of Kafiristan survived here until the 19th century. Another religion, Zoroastrianism is believed by some to have originated in what is now Afghanistan between 1800 and 800 BCE, as its founder Zoroaster is thought to have lived and died in Balkh. Ancient Eastern Iranian languages may have been spoken in the region around the time of the rise of Zoroastrianism. \n\nBy the middle of the 6th century BCE, the Achaemenid Persians overthrew the Medes and incorporated Arachosia, Aria, and Bactria within its eastern boundaries. An inscription on the tombstone of King Darius I of Persia mentions the Kabul Valley in a list of the 29 countries that he had conquered.\n\nIn 330 BC, Alexander the Great seized the area but left it to Seleucids to rule. The area south of the Hindu Kush was given to the Mauryas who introduced Buddhism. The Mauryas introduced were planning to capture more territory in Central Asia, until they faced local Greco-Bactrian forces. Seleucus is said to have reached a peace treaty with Mauryan emperor Chandragupta by giving control of the territory south of the Hindu Kush to the Mauryas upon intermarriage and 500 elephants.\nAfghanistan's significant ancient tangible and intangible Buddhist heritage is recorded through wide-ranging archeological finds, including religious and artistic remnants. Buddhist doctrines are reported to have reached as far as Balkh even during the life of the Buddha (563 BCE to 483 BCE), as recorded by Husang Tsang. It became the site of an early Buddhist monastery. Many statues of Buddha were carved into the sides of cliffs facing Bamyan city. The two most prominent of these statues were standing Buddhas, now known as the Buddhas of Bamyan, measuring 55 and 37 meters high respectively, that were the largest examples of standing Buddha carvings in the world. They were probably erected in the 4th or 5th century A.D. They were cultural landmarks for many years and are listed among UNESCO's World Heritage Sites. In March 2001 the Taliban government decreed that the statues were idolatrous and ordered them to be demolished with anti-aircraft artillery and explosives.\n\nBy the 7th century, when the Arabs first arrived, it was under the control of the Kabul Shahi before being conquered in the name of Islam by the Saffarids in the 9th century. It fell to the Ghaznavids followed by the Ghurids before the Mongol invasion in the 13th century. The area was ruled by Arghun Khan of Ilkhanate, later by the Timurids and Mughals.\n\nIn 1709, when the Hotaki dynasty rose to power in Kandahar and defeated the Persian Safavids, Bamyan was under the Mughal Empire influence until Ahmad Shah Durrani made it become part of the Afghan Durrani Empire, which became to what is now the modern state of Afghanistan. \n\nDuring the 1980s Soviet–Afghan War, the Hazara rebel leader Abdul Ali Mazari began spreading influence. He was supported by Iranian politicians. He founded the Hezbe Wahdat political party in 1989 and was killed by Taliban forces. By 1995, Bamyan province was under the control of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (Taliban government). They were toppled by US-led forces in late 2001.\n\nAfter the formation of the Karzai administration, Bamyan became the focus of rebuilding.\nThe Buddhist remains at Bamyan were included on the 2008 World Monuments Watch List of the 100 Most Endangered Sites by the World Monuments Fund. It is hoped that the listing will put continued national and international attention on the site as a whole (including, but not limited to, the statues) in order to ensure its long-term preservation, and to make certain that future restoration efforts maintain the authenticity of the site and that proper preservation practices are followed. Bamyan is also known as the capital of Daizangi and for its natural beauty.\n\nIt is recognised as one of the safest provinces in the country, which has allowed for civil rebuilding. Bamyan served as the base of operations for the New Zealand peacekeeping force, a Provincial Reconstruction Team codenamed \"Task Group Crib\", which was part of the network of Provincial Reconstruction Teams throughout Afghanistan.\n\nThe current governor of the province is Habiba Sarabi, Afghanistan's first and, so far, only female governor; she was appointed in 2005. The town of Bamyan serves as the capital of the province. All law enforcement activities throughout the province are controlled by the Afghan National Police (ANP) along with the Afghan Local Police (ALP). The provincial police chief represents the Ministry of the Interior in Kabul. The ANP is backed by other Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), including the NATO-led forces.\n\nAs of May 2014, the province was served by Bamyan Airport in Bamyan which had regularly scheduled direct flights to Kabul.\n\nBamiyan has been particularly famous for its potatoes. The region is also known for a \"shuttle system\" of planting, wherein seed potatoes are grown in winter in Jalalabad, a warm area of eastern Afghanistan, and then transferred to Bamyan for spring re-planting.\n\nPrior to the Soviet invasion of 1979 the province attracted many tourists. Although this number is considerably fewer now, Bamyan is the first province in Afghanistan to have set up a tourist board, Bamyan Tourism. A feature of this developing tourist industry is based around skiing. The province is said to have 'some of the best \"outback skiing\" in the world' and in 2008 an $1.2 million project to encourage skiing was launched by the Aga Khan Foundation (AKF) with the help of NZAID, New Zealand government’s international aid agency. The province hosts the Afghan Ski Challenge, a 7 km downhill race over ungroomed and powdered snow, founded by Swiss journalist and skier Christoph Zurcher. Tissot, the Swiss watch manufacturer, is the principal sponsor.\n\nBamyan Province is home to the region's only university, Bamiyan University in the city of Bamyan. The school was founded in the mid-1990s, and largely destroyed under the Taliban and by US airstrikes. It was later refurbished by New Zealand Provincial Reconstruction Teams following the fall of the Taliban.\n\nThe total population of Bamyan province is around 425,500. Inhabitants of Bamyan are almost entirely Hazaras, but there is a small number of Tajiks living there too. \n\nThe following is a list of the districts with the 201213 estimates of their settled population:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53212", "title": "Bering Strait", "text": "Bering Strait\n\nThe Bering Strait is a strait of the Pacific, which separates Russia and Alaska slightly south of the Arctic Circle at about 65° 40' N latitude. The present Russia-US east-west boundary is at 168° 58' 37\" W. The Straight is named after Vitus Bering, a Danish explorer in the service of the Russian Empire.\n\nThe Strait has been the subject of the scientific hypothesis that humans migrated from Asia to North America across a land bridge known as Beringia when lower ocean levels – perhaps a result of glaciers locking up vast amounts of water – exposed a wide stretch of the sea floor, both at the present strait and in the shallow sea north and south of it. This view of how Paleo-Indians entered America has been the dominant one for several decades and continues to be the most accepted one. Numerous successful crossings without the use of a boat have also been recorded since at least the early 20th century.\n\nSince 2012, the Russian coast of the Bering Strait has been a closed military zone. Through organized trips and the use of special permits, it is possible for foreigners to visit. All arrivals must be through an airport or a cruise port, near the Bering Strait only at Anadyr or Provideniya. Unauthorized travelers who arrive on shore after crossing the strait, even those with visas, may be arrested, imprisoned briefly, fined, deported and banned from future visas.\n\nThe Bering Strait is about wide at its narrowest point, between Cape Dezhnev, Chukchi Peninsula, Russia, the easternmost point (169° 43' W) of the Asian continent and Cape Prince of Wales, Alaska, United States, the westernmost point (168° 05' W) of the North American continent. Its depth varies between and . It borders with the Chukchi Sea (part of the Arctic Ocean) to north and with the Bering Sea to south.\n\nThe International Date Line runs equidistant between the Strait's Diomede Islands at a distance of , leaving the Russian and American sides usually on different calendar days, with Cape Dezhnev 21 hours ahead of the American side (20 hours during daylight saving time).\n\nThe area is sparsely populated.\n\nThe eastern coast belongs to the U.S. state of Alaska. Notable towns on the American coast of the Strait include Nome (3,788 people) and the small settlement of Teller (228 people).\n\nThe western coast belongs to the Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, a federal subject of Russia. Major towns that lie along the Strait include Lorino (1,267 people) and Lavrentiya (1,459 people).\n\nThe Diomede Islands lie midway in the Strait. The village in Little Diomede has a school which belongs to Alaska's Bering Strait School District.\n\nThe earliest reference of the strait were from maps from the Polo family; based on the adventures of Marco Polo. From at least 1562, European geographers thought that there was a Strait of Anián between Asia and North America. In 1648, Semyon Dezhnyov probably passed through the strait, but his report did not reach Europe. Danish-born Russian navigator Vitus Bering entered it in 1728. In 1732, Mikhail Gvozdev crossed it for the first time, from Asia to America. Adolf Erik Nordenskiöld in 1878–79 sailed along the northern coast of Siberia, thereby proving that there was no northern land bridge from Asia to North America.\n\nIn March 1913, Captain Max Gottschalk (German) crossed from the east cape of Siberia to Shishmaref, Alaska, on dogsled via Little and Big Diomede islands. He was the first documented modern voyager to cross from Russia to North America without the use of a boat.\n\nIn 1987, swimmer Lynne Cox swam a course between the Diomede Islands from Alaska to the Soviet Union in water during the last years of the Cold War.\n\nIn June and July 1989, three teams of sea kayakers combined to attempt the first modern sea kayak crossing of the Bering Strait. The groups were seven Alaskans referring to their effort as 'Paddling Into Tomorrow' (crossing the international dateline), a four-man British expedition, \"Kayaks Across the Bering Strait\" and an unnamed group of three Californians.\n\nIn 1998, Russian adventurer Dmitry Shparo and his son Matvey crossed the frozen Bering Strait on skis.\n\nIn March 2006, Briton Karl Bushby and French-American adventurer Dimitri Kieffer crossed the strait on foot, walking across a frozen section in 15 days. They were soon arrested for not entering Russia through a border control.\n\nAugust 2008 marked the first crossing of the Bering Strait using an amphibious road-going vehicle. The specially modified Land Rover Defender 110 was driven by Steve Burgess and Dan Evans across the straits on its second attempt following the interruption of the first by bad weather.\n\nIn February 2012, a Korean team led by Hong Sung-Taek crossed the straits on foot in six days. They started from Chukotka Peninsula, the east coast of Russia on February 23 and arrived in Wales, the western coastal town in Alaska on February 29.\n\nIn July 2012, six adventurers associated with \"Dangerous Waters\", a reality adventure show under production, made the crossing on Sea-Doos but were arrested and permitted to return to Alaska on their Sea-Doos after being briefly detained in Lavrentiya, administrative center of the Chukotsky District. They were treated well and given a tour of the village's museum, but not permitted to continue south along the Pacific coast. The men had visas but the western coast of the Bering Strait is a closed military zone.\n\nBetween August 4 and 10 (US time), 2013, a team of 65 swimmers from 17 countries performed a relay swim across the Bering Strait, the first such swim in history. They swam from Cape Dezhnev, Russia, to Cape Prince of Wales, United States (roughly 110 km, due to the current). They had direct support from the Russian Navy, using one of its ships, and assistance with permission.\n\nA physical link between Asia and North America via the Bering Strait nearly became a reality in 1864 when a Russian-American telegraph company began preparations for an overland telegraph line connecting Europe and America via the east. It was abandoned when the undersea Atlantic Cable proved successful.\n\nA further proposal for a bridge-and-tunnel link from Siberia to Alaska was made by French engineer Baron Loicq de Lobel in 1906. Czar Nicholas II of Russia issued an order authorising a Franco-American syndicate represented by de Lobel to begin work on the Trans-Siberian Alaska railroad project, but no physical work ever commenced.\n\nSuggestions have been made to construct a Bering Strait bridge between Alaska and Siberia. However, despite the unprecedented engineering, political, and financial challenges, Russia green-lighted the US $65-billion TKM-World Link tunnel project in August 2011. If completed, the 103 km (64 mile) project would have been the world's longest. China considered construction of a \"China-Russia-Canada-America\" railroad line that would include construction of a long underwater tunnel that would cross the Bering Strait.\n\nIn 1956, the Soviet Union proposed to the US a joint bi-national project to warm the Arctic Ocean and melt some of the ice cap. As designed by Petr Borisov, the Soviet project called for a wide dam across the Bering Strait. It would block the cold Pacific current from entering the Arctic. By pumping low-salinity cold surface water across the dam to the Pacific, warmer and higher salinity sea water from the Atlantic Ocean would be introduced into the Arctic Ocean. However, citing national security concerns, the CIA and FBI experts opposed the Soviet plan by arguing that while the plan was feasible, it would compromise NORAD and thus the dam could be built at only an immense cost. Soviet scientist D. A. Drogaytsev, also opposed the idea, stating that the sea north of the dam and north-flowing rivers in Siberia would become unnavigable year round, and extend the Gobi and other deserts to the northern Siberia coastline.\n\nAmerican Charles P. Steinmetz earlier proposed to widen the Bering Strait by removing St. Lawrence Island and parts of Seward and Chukotski Peninsulas. A strait 200 miles wide would let the Japan Current melt the Arctic Ocean.\n\nIn the 21st century another dam has also been proposed, however the aim of the proposal is to preserve the Arctic ice cap against global warming.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Bering Strait marked the border between the Soviet Union and the United States. The Diomede Islands—Big Diomede (Russia) and Little Diomede (US)—are only apart. Traditionally, the indigenous peoples in the area had frequently crossed the border back and forth for \"routine visits, seasonal festivals and subsistence trade\", but were prevented from doing so during the Cold War. The border became known as the \"Ice Curtain\". It was completely closed, and there was no regular passenger air or boat traffic. In 1987, American swimmer Lynne Cox symbolically helped ease tensions between the two countries by swimming across the border and was congratulated jointly by Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7940467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7940467", "title": "Book of Roads and Kingdoms (al-Bakrī)", "text": "Book of Roads and Kingdoms (al-Bakrī)\n\nBook of Roads and Kingdoms or Book of Highways and Kingdoms (, ) is the name of an eleventh-century geography text by Abu Abdullah al-Bakri. \n\nIt was written in 1067-8 in Córdoba, al-Andalus (present day Spain). Al-Bakri based his work on the accounts of traders, the writings of Muhammad ibn Yusuf al-Warraq, (\"On the Topography of North Africa\"), and Abraham ben Jacob. Despite the fact that al-Bakri never left al-Andalus, his writings are regarded as objectively reporting the accounts of other travelers by contemporary historians, and much of what he wrote is substantiated in other sources.\n\nHe described a wide array of regions from the Atlantic Ocean, through the Sahara, to Central Africa, giving descriptions of the geography, people, culture and political situation in each region. The \"Book of Roads and Kingdoms\" exists today only in fragmentary form. It is sometimes confused with a work by the same name written in the ninth century by ibn Khordadbeh.\n\n"}
{"id": "58680697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58680697", "title": "Carwardine", "text": "Carwardine\n\nCarwadine is an English surname, originally given to people from Carden, Cheshire. Notable people with the surname include:\n"}
{"id": "12874431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12874431", "title": "Euphorbia boissieri", "text": "Euphorbia boissieri\n\nEuphorbia boissieri is a species of plant in the Euphorbiaceae family. It is endemic to Madagascar. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests. It is threatened by habitat loss. A political crisis in 2009 also plunged Madagascar wildlife into a desperate state. It is named after botanist Pierre Edmond Boissier.\n"}
{"id": "1854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854", "title": "Geography of Africa", "text": "Geography of Africa\n\nAfrica is a continent comprising 63 political territories, representing the largest of the great southward projections from the main mass of Earth's surface. Within its regular outline, it comprises an area of , excluding adjacent islands. Its highest mountain is Mount Kilimanjaro, its largest lake is Lake Victoria\nSeparated from Europe by the Mediterranean Sea and from much of Asia by the Red Sea, Africa is joined to Asia at its northeast extremity by the Isthmus of Suez (which in transected by the Suez Canal), wide. For geopolitical purposes, the Sinai Peninsula of Egypt – east on the Suez Canal – is often considered part of Africa. From the most northerly point, Ras ben Sakka in Tunisia, at 37°21′ N, to the more southerly point, Cape Agulhas in South Africa, 34°51′15″ S, is a distance approximately of ; from Cap-Vert, 17°31′13″W, the westernmost point, to Ras Hafun in Somalia, 51°27′52″ E, the most easterly projection, is a distance (also approximately) of .\n\nThe main structural lines of the continent show both the east-to-west direction characteristic, at least in the eastern hemisphere, of the more northern parts of the world, and the north-to-south direction seen in the southern peninsulas. Africa is thus mainly composed of two segments at right angles, the northern running from east to west, and the southern from north to south.\n\nThe average elevation of the continent approximates closely to above sea level, roughly near to the mean elevation of both North and South America, but considerably less than that of Asia, . In contrast with other continents, it is marked by the comparatively small area of either very high or very low ground, lands under occupying an unusually small part of the surface; while not only are the highest elevations inferior to those of Asia or South America, but the area of land over is also quite insignificant, being represented almost entirely by individual peaks and mountain ranges. Moderately elevated tablelands are thus the characteristic feature of the continent, though the surface of these is broken by higher peaks and ridges. (So prevalent are these isolated peaks and ridges that a specialised term [\"Inselberg-Landschaft\", island mountain landscape] has been adopted in Germany to describe this kind of country, thought to be in great part the result of wind action.)\n\nAs a general rule, the higher tablelands lie to the east and south, while a progressive diminution in altitude towards the west and north is observable. Apart from the lowlands and the Atlas mountain range, the continent may be divided into two regions of higher and lower plateaus, the dividing line (somewhat concave to the north-west) running from the middle of the Red Sea to about 6 deg. S. on the west coast.\n\nAfrica can be divided into a number of geographic zones:\n\n\nThe high southern and eastern plateaus, rarely falling below , have a mean elevation of about . The South African Plateau, as far as about 12° S, is bounded east, west and south by bands of high ground which fall steeply to the coasts. On this account South Africa has a general resemblance to an inverted saucer. Due south, the plateau rim is formed by three parallel steps with level ground between them. The largest of these level areas, the Great Karoo, is a dry, barren region, and a large tract of the plateau proper is of a still more arid character and is known as the Kalahari Desert.\n\nThe South African Plateau is connected towards East African plateau, with probably a slightly greater average elevation, and marked by some distinct features. It is formed by a widening out of the eastern axis of high ground, which becomes subdivided into a number of zones running north and south and consisting in turn of ranges, tablelands and depressions. The most striking feature is the existence of two great lines of depression, due largely to the subsidence of whole segments of the Earth's crust, the lowest parts of which are occupied by vast lakes. Towards the south the two lines converge and give place to one great valley (occupied by Lake Nyasa), the southern part of which is less distinctly due to rifting and subsidence than the rest of the system.\n\nFarther north the western hollow, known as the Albertine Rift, is occupied for more than half its length by water, forming the Great Lakes of Tanganyika, Kivu, Lake Edward and Lake Albert, the first-named over long and the longest freshwater lake in the world. Associated with these great valleys are a number of volcanic peaks, the greatest of which occur on a meridional line east of the eastern trough. The eastern branch of the East African Rift, contains much smaller lakes, many of them brackish and without outlet, the only one comparable to those of the western trough being Lake Turkana or Basso Norok.\n\nA short distance east of this rift-valley is Mount Kilimanjaro — with its two peaks Kibo and Mawenzi, the latter being , and the culminating point of the whole continent — and Mount Kenya, which is . Hardly less important is the Ruwenzori Range, over , which lies east of the western trough. Other volcanic peaks rise from the floor of the valleys, some of the Kirunga (Mfumbiro) group, north of Lake Kivu, being still partially active. This could cause most of the cities and states to be flooded with lava and ash.\n\nThe third division of the higher region of Africa is formed by the Ethiopian Highlands, a rugged mass of mountains forming the largest continuous area of its altitude in the whole continent, little of its surface falling below , while the summits reach heights of 4400 m to 4550 m. This block of country lies just west of the line of the great East African Trough, the northern continuation of which passes along its eastern escarpment as it runs up to join the Red Sea. There is, however, in the centre a circular basin occupied by Lake Tsana.\n\nBoth in the east and west of the continent the bordering highlands are continued as strips of plateau parallel to the coast, the Ethiopian mountains being continued northwards along the Red Sea coast by a series of ridges reaching in places a height of . In the west the zone of high land is broader but somewhat lower. The most mountainous districts lie inland from the head of the Gulf of Guinea (Adamawa, etc.), where heights of are reached. Exactly at the head of the gulf the great peak of the Cameroon, on a line of volcanic action continued by the islands to the south-west, has a height of , while Clarence Peak, in Fernando Po, the first of the line of islands, rises to over . Towards the extreme west the Futa Jallon highlands form an important diverging point of rivers, but beyond this, as far as the Atlas chain, the elevated rim of the continent is almost wanting.\n\nMuch of Africa is made up of plains of the pediplain and etchplain type often occurring as steps. The etchplains are commonly associated with laterite soil and inselbergs. Inselberg-dotted plains are common in Africa including Tanzania, the Anti-Atlas of Morocco, Namibia, and the interior of Angola. One of the most wideaspread plain is the African Surface, a composite etchplain occurring across much of the continent. \nThe area between the east and west coast highlands, which north of 17° N is mainly desert, is divided into separate basins by other bands of high ground, one of which runs nearly centrally through North Africa in a line corresponding roughly with the curved axis of the continent as a whole. The best marked of the basins so formed (the Congo basin) occupies a circular area bisected by the equator, once probably the site of an inland sea.\n\nRunning along the south of desert is the plains region known as the Sahel.\n\nThe arid region, the Sahara — the largest hot desert in the world, covering  — extends from the Atlantic to the Red Sea. Though generally of slight elevation, it contains mountain ranges with peaks rising to Bordered N.W. by the Atlas range, to the northeast a rocky plateau separates it from the Mediterranean; this plateau gives place at the extreme east to the delta of the Nile. That river (see below) pierces the desert without modifying its character. The Atlas range, the north-westerly part of the continent, between its seaward and landward heights encloses elevated steppes in places broad. From the inner slopes of the plateau numerous wadis take a direction towards the Sahara. The greater part of that now desert region is, indeed, furrowed by old water-channels.\n\nThe following table gives the details of the chief mountains and ranges of the continent:\n\nFrom the outer margin of the African plateaus, a large number of streams run to the sea with comparatively short courses, while the larger rivers flow for long distances on the interior highlands, before breaking through the outer ranges. The main drainage of the continent is to the north and west, or towards the basin of the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nTo the main African rivers belong: Nile (the longest river of Africa), Congo (river with the highest water discharge on the continent) and the Niger, which flows half of its length through the arid areas. The largest lakes are the following: Lake Victoria (Lake Ukerewe), Lake Chad, in the centre of the continent, Lake Tanganyika, lying between the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, Tanzania and Zambia. There is also the considerably large Lake Malawi stretching along the eastern border of one of the poorest countries in the world -Malawi. There are also numerous water dams throughout the continent: Kariba on the river of Zambezi, Asuan in Egypt on the river of Nile and the biggest dam of the continent lying completely in The republic of Ghana is called Akosombo on the Volta river (Fobil 2003).\nThe high lake plateau of the African Great Lakes region contains the headwaters of both the Nile and the Congo.\n\nThe break-up of Gondwana in Late Cretaceous and Cenozoic times led to a major reorganization of the river courses of various large African rivers including the Congo, Niger, Nile, Orange, Limpopo and Zambezi rivers.\n\nThe upper Nile receives its chief supplies from the mountainous region adjoining the Central African trough in the neighborhood of the equator. From there, streams pour eastward into Lake Victoria, the largest lake in Africa (covering over 26,000 square m.), and to the west and north into Lake Edward and Lake Albert. To the latter of these, the effluents of the other two lakes add their waters. Issuing from there, the Nile flows northward, and between the latitudes of 7 and 10 degrees north it traverses a vast marshy level, where its course is liable to being blocked by floating vegetation. After receiving the Bahr-el-Ghazal from the west and the Sobat, Blue Nile and Atbara from the Ethiopian Highlands (the chief gathering ground of the flood-water), it separates the great desert with its fertile watershed, and enters the Mediterranean at a vast delta.\n\nThe most remote head-stream of the Congo is the Chambezi, which flows southwest into the marshy Lake Bangweulu. From this lake issues the Congo, known in its upper course by various names. Flowing first south, it afterwards turns north through Lake Mweru and descends to the forest-clad basin of west equatorial Africa. Traversing this in a majestic northward curve, and receiving vast supplies of water from many great tributaries, it finally turns southwest and cuts a way to the Atlantic Ocean through the western highlands. The area of the Congo basin is greater than that of any other river except the Amazon, while the African inland drainage area is greater than that of any continent but Asia, where the corresponding area is .\n\nWest of Lake Chad is the basin of the Niger, the third major river of Africa. With its principal source in the far west, it reverses the direction of flow exhibited by the Nile and Congo, and ultimately flows into the Atlantic — a fact that eluded European geographers for many centuries. An important branch, however — the Benue—flows from the southeast.\n\nThese four river basins occupy the greater part of the lower plateaus of North and West Africa — the remainder consists of arid regions watered only by intermittent streams that do not reach the sea.\n\nOf the remaining rivers of the Atlantic basin, the Orange, in the extreme south, brings the drainage from the Drakensberg on the opposite side of the continent, while the Kunene, Kwanza, Ogowe and Sanaga drain the west coastal highlands of the southern limb; the Volta, Komoe, Bandama, Gambia and Senegal the highlands of the western limb. North of the Senegal, for over of coast, the arid region reaches to the Atlantic. Farther north are the streams, with comparatively short courses, reaching the Atlantic and Mediterranean from the Atlas mountains.\n\nOf the rivers flowing to the Indian Ocean, the only one draining any large part of the interior plateaus is the Zambezi, whose western branches rise in the western coastal highlands. The main stream has its rise in 11°21′3″ S 24°22′ E, at an elevation of . It flows to the west and south for a considerable distance before turning eastward. All the largest tributaries, including the Shire, the outflow of Lake Nyasa, flow down the southern slopes of the band of high ground stretching across the continent from 10° to 12° S. In the southwest, the Zambezi system interlaces with that of the Taukhe (or Tioghe), from which it at times receives surplus water. The rest of the water of the Taukhe, known in its middle course as the Okavango, is lost in a system of swamps and saltpans that was formerly centred in Lake Ngami, now dried up.\n\nFarther south, the Limpopo drains a portion of the interior plateau, but breaks through the bounding highlands on the side of the continent nearest its source. The Rovuma, Rufiji and Tana principally drain the outer slopes of the African Great Lakes highlands.\n\nIn the Horn region to the north, the Jubba and the Shebelle rivers begin in the Ethiopian Highlands. These rivers mainly flow southwards, with the Jubba emptying in the Indian Ocean. The Shebelle River reaches a point to the southwest. After that, it consists of swamps and dry reaches before finally disappearing in the desert terrain near the Jubba River. Another large stream, the Hawash, rising in the Ethiopian mountains, is lost in a saline depression near the Gulf of Aden.\n\nBetween the basins of the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, there is an area of inland drainage along the centre of the Ethiopian plateau, directed chiefly into the lakes in the Great Rift Valley. The largest river is the Omo, which, fed by the rains of the Ethiopian highlands, carries down a large body of water into Lake Rudolf. The rivers of Africa are generally obstructed either by bars at their mouths, or by cataracts at no great distance upstream. But when these obstacles have been overcome, the rivers and lakes afford a vast network of navigable waters.\n\nNorth of the Congo basin, and separated from it by a broad undulation of the surface, is the basin of Lake Chad – a flat-shored, shallow lake filled principally by the Chari coming from the southeast.\n\nThe principal lakes of Africa are situated in the African Great Lakes plateau. As a rule, the lakes found within the Great Rift Valley have steep sides and are very deep. This is the case with the two largest of the type, Tanganyika and Nyasa, the latter with depths of .\n\nOthers, however, are shallow, and hardly reach the steep sides of the valleys in the dry season. Such are Lake Rukwa, in a subsidiary depression north of Nyasa, and Eiassi and Manyara in the system of the Great Rift Valley. Lakes of the broad type are of moderate depth, the deepest sounding in Lake Victoria being under .\n\nBesides the African Great Lakes, the principal lakes on the continent are: Lake Chad, in the northern inland watershed; Bangweulu and Mweru, traversed by the head-stream of the Congo; and Lake Mai-Ndombe and Ntomba (Mantumba), within the great bend of that river. All, except possibly Mweru, are more or less shallow, and Lake Chad appears to be drying up.\n\nDivergent opinions have been held as to the mode of origin of the African Great Lakes, especially Tanganyika, which some geologists have considered to represent an old arm of the sea, dating from a time when the whole central Congo basin was under water; others holding that the lake water has accumulated in a depression caused by subsidence. The former view is based on the existence in the lake of organisms of a decidedly marine type. They include jellyfish, molluscs, prawns, crabs, etc.\n\nWith the exception of Madagascar, the African islands are small. Madagascar, with an area of , is, after Greenland, New Guinea and Borneo, the fourth largest island on the Earth. It lies in the Indian Ocean, off the S.E. coast of the continent, from which it is separated by the deep Mozambique channel, wide at its narrowest point. Madagascar in its general structure, as in flora and fauna, forms a connecting link between Africa and southern Asia. East of Madagascar are the small islands of Mauritius and Réunion. There are also islands in the Gulf of Guinea on which lies the Republic of Sao Tomé and Príncipe (islands of São Tomé and Príncipe). Part of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea is lying on the island of Bioko (with the capital Malabo and the town of Lubu) and the island of Annobón. Socotra lies E.N.E. of Cape Guardafui. Off the north-west coast are the Canary and Cape Verde archipelagoes. which, like some small islands in the Gulf of Guinea, are of volcanic origin. The South Atlantic Islands of Saint Helena and Ascension are classed as Africa but are situated on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge half way to South America.\n\nLying almost entirely within the tropics, and equally to north and south of the equator, Africa does not show excessive variations of temperature.\n\nGreat heat is experienced in the lower plains and desert regions of North Africa, removed by the great width of the continent from the influence of the ocean, and here, too, the contrast between day and night, and between summer and winter, is greatest. (The rarity of the air and the great radiation during the night cause the temperature in the Sahara to fall occasionally to freezing point.)\n\nFarther south, the heat is to some extent modified by the moisture brought from the ocean, and by the greater elevation of a large part of the surface, especially in East Africa, where the range of temperature is wider than in the Congo basin or on the Guinea coast.\n\nIn the extreme north and south the climate is a warm temperate one, the northern countries being on the whole hotter and drier than those in the southern zone; the south of the continent being narrower than the north, the influence of the surrounding ocean is more felt.\n\nThe most important climatic differences are due to variations in the amount of rainfall. The wide heated plains of the Sahara, and in a lesser degree the corresponding zone of the Kalahari in the south, have an exceedingly scanty rainfall, the winds which blow over them from the ocean losing part of their moisture as they pass over the outer highlands, and becoming constantly drier owing to the heating effects of the burning soil of the interior; while the scarcity of mountain ranges in the more central parts likewise tends to prevent condensation. In the inter-tropical zone of summer precipitation, the rainfall is greatest when the sun is vertical or soon after. It is therefore greatest of all near the equator, where the sun is twice vertical, and less in the direction of both tropics.\n\nThe rainfall zones are, however, somewhat deflected from a due west-to-east direction, the drier northern conditions extending southwards along the east coast, and those of the south northwards along the west. Within the equatorial zone certain areas, especially on the shores of the Gulf of Guinea and in the upper Nile basin, have an intensified rainfall, but this rarely approaches that of the rainiest regions of the world. The rainiest district in all Africa is a strip of coastland west of Mount Cameroon, where there is a mean annual rainfall of about as compared with a mean of at Cherrapunji, in Meghalaya, India.\n\nThe two distinct rainy seasons of the equatorial zone, where the sun is vertical at half-yearly intervals, become gradually merged into one in the direction of the tropics, where the sun is overhead but once. Snow falls on all the higher mountain ranges, and on the highest the climate is thoroughly Alpine.\n\nThe countries bordering the Sahara are much exposed to a very dry wind, full of fine particles of sand, blowing from the desert towards the sea. Known in Egypt as the khamsin, on the Mediterranean as the sirocco, it is called on the Guinea coast the harmattan. This wind is not invariably hot; its great dryness causes so much evaporation that cold is not infrequently the result. Similar dry winds blow from the Kalahari Desert in the south. On the eastern coast the monsoons of the Indian Ocean are regularly felt, and on the southeast hurricanes are occasionally experienced.\n\nThe climate of Africa lends itself to certain environmental diseases, the most serious of which are: malaria, sleeping sickness and yellow fever. Malaria is the most deadly environmental disease in Africa. It is transmitted by a genus of mosquito (anopheles mosquito) native to Africa, and can be contracted over and over again. There is not yet a vaccine for malaria, which makes it difficult to prevent the disease from spreading in Africa. Recently, the dissemination of mosquito netting has helped lower the rate of malaria.\n\nYellow fever is a disease also transmitted by mosquitoes native to Africa. Unlike malaria, it cannot be contracted more than once. Like chicken pox, it is a disease that tends to be severe the later in life a person contracts the disease.\n\nSleeping sickness, or African trypanosomiasis, is a disease that usually affects animals, but has been known to be fatal to some humans as well. It is transmitted by the tsetse fly and is found almost exclusively in Sub-Saharan Africa. This disease has had a significant impact on African development not because of its deadly nature, like Malaria, but because it has prevented Africans from pursuing agriculture (as the sleeping sickness would kill their livestock).\n\nThese are the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location on the continent.\n\n\n\nThe highest point in Africa is Mount Kilimanjaro, in Tanzania. The lowest point is Lake Asal, below sea level, in Djibouti.\n\nRichard Grant 2014. Africa. Geographies of Change. New York: Oxford University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "12178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12178", "title": "Geography of Guinea", "text": "Geography of Guinea\n\nGuinea is a country on the coast of West Africa and is bordered by Guinea-Bissau, Senegal, Mali, Ivory Coast, Liberia, and Sierra Leone.\n\nGuinea is divided into four geographic regions: Maritime Guinea (Lower Guinea) a coastal plain running north to south behind the coast; the pastoral Fouta Djallon highlands (Middle Guinea); the northern savanna (Upper Guinea); and a southeastern rain-forest region (Forest Guinea).\n\nGuinea is in western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone. Its geographic coordinates are . Guinea's total area is 245,857 km², comprising 245,717 km² of land and 140 km² of water.\n\nGuinea's land boundaries span a total of 4,046 km: with Ivory Coast 816 km, Guinea-Bissau 421 km, Liberia 590 km, Mali 1,062 km, Senegal 363 km, and Sierra Leone 794 km. It has a 320-km coastline, and claims an exclusive economic zone of , with a territorial sea of .\n\nThe coastal region of Guinea and most of the inland have a tropical climate, with a monsoonal-type rainy season lasting from April to November, relatively high and uniform temperatures, southwesterly winds, and high humidity.\n\nThe capital Conakry's year-round average high is , and the low is . Conakry's average annual rainfall is . Sahelian Upper Guinea has a shorter rainy season and greater daily temperature variations. There is a dry season (December to May) with northeasterly harmattan winds.\n\nThe Niger River, the Gambia River, and the Senegal River are among the 22 West African rivers that have their origins in Guinea.\n\n\nThe country's natural resources include bauxite, iron ore, diamonds, gold, uranium, hydropower, fish, and salt. It has 12.21% arable land, and 2.85% of the land is permanent crops. 949.2 km² (2003) of land is irrigated. Guinea's total renewable water resources total 226 km.\n\nCurrent environmental issues in Guinea include: deforestation; inadequate supplies of potable water; desertification; soil contamination and erosion; and overfishing and overpopulation in forest regions. Poor mining practices have led to environmental damage.\n\nGuinea is party to the following international environmental agreements: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling.\n\nIts terrain is generally flat coastal plain, hilly to mountainous interior. The country's lowest point is the Atlantic Ocean (0 m), and highest is Mont Nimba (1,752 m).\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Guinea, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50569433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50569433", "title": "Geospatial Information Regulation Bill", "text": "Geospatial Information Regulation Bill\n\nThe Geospatial Information Regulation Bill, 2016 was introduced in Parliament of India in 2016.\n\nThe Geospatial Information Regulation Bill, 2016 was introduced in Parliament of India in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "429060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429060", "title": "IFOAM - Organics International", "text": "IFOAM - Organics International\n\nThe International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM - Organics International) is the worldwide umbrella organization for the organic agriculture movement, which represents close to 800 affiliates in 117 countries.\n\nIt declares its mission is to, \"Lead, unite and assist the organic movement in its full diversity.\" and vision is the \"worldwide adoption of ecologically, socially and economically sound systems, based on the Principles of Organic Agriculture\".\n\nAmong its wide range of activities, the federation maintains an organic farming standard, and an organic accreditation and certification service.\n\nIFOAM - Organics International began in Versailles, France, on November 5, 1972, during an international congress on organic agriculture organized by the French farmer organization \"\". The late Roland Chevriot, President of \"Nature et Progrès\", took the initiative. There were 5 founding members representing different organizations: Lady Eve Balfour representing the Soil Association of Great Britain, Kjell Arman representing the Swedish Biodynamic Association, Pauline Raphaely representing the Soil Association of South Africa, Jerome Goldstein representing Rodale Press of the United States, and Roland Chevriot representing \"Nature et Progrès\" of France.\n\nThe aim of the new organization was reflected in the name: \"International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements\". The founders hoped that the federation would meet what they saw as a major need: a unified, organized voice for organic food, and the diffusion and exchange of information on the principles and practices of organic agriculture across national and linguistic boundaries. In 2015 the name of changed to IFOAM - Organics International.\n\nThe General Assembly of IFOAM - Organics International serves as the foundation of the organization. It elects the World Board of IFOAM - Organics International for a three-year term. The World Board is a diverse group of individuals working voluntarily to lead IFOAM - Organics International. The current World Board was elected at the General Assembly of IFOAM in Istanbul which took place in October 2014. The World Board appoints members to official committees, working groups and task forces based upon the recommendation of the membership of IFOAM - Organics International. Member organizations also establish regional groups and sector specific interest groups.\n\nIFOAM - Organics International actively participates in international agricultural and environmental negotiations with the United Nations and multilateral institutions to further the interests of the organic agricultural movement worldwide, and has observer status or is otherwise accredited by the following international institutions:\n\nAccording to the One World Trust's Global Accountability Report 2008 which assessed a range of organisations in areas such as transparency, stakeholder participation and evaluation capacity, \"IFOAM is the highest scoring international NGO, and at the top of the 30 organisations this year with a score of 71 percent\".\n\nFor a full list of member organizations, see the \n\nThe Organic Guarantee System (OGS) of IFOAM - Organics International is designed to a) facilitate the development of organic standards and third-party certification worldwide and to b) provide an international guarantee of these standards and organic certification.'\n\"ÀÀÀ\nIn recent years the OGS approach of IFOAM - Organics International underwent some significant changes. With the establishment and spreading of organic standards and certification around the world a number of new challenges appeared. Especially smallholder farmers in developing countries struggle with a) the multitude of standards they are expected to farm conform with and b) with high certification costs and considerable administrative expenditures.\n\nIFOAM - Organics International had a breakthrough in the development and adoption of approaches to address these certification problems. The organization now directs special focus on the promotion of two new concepts:\n\nIn the framework of a multi-year collaboration IFOAM - Organics International developed together with his UN partners: the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), a set of standard requirements that functions as an international reference to assess the quality and equivalency of organic standards and regulations. It is known as the COROS (Common Objectives and Requirements of Organic Standards)\nThe vision is that the Family of Standards will contain all organic standards and regulations equivalent to the COROS. Instead of assessing each standard against each other the Family of Standards can be used as a tool to simplify equivalence assessment procedures while ensuring a high level of integrity and transparency. \nThe Family of Standard Program started in January 2011. One year later about 50 standards worldwide are approved.\n\n\"Participatory Guarantee Systems are locally focused quality assurance systems. They certify producers based on active participation of stakeholders and are built on a foundation of trust, social networks and knowledge exchange\"” (Definition of IFOAM - Organics International, 2008).\n\nParticipatory Guarantee Systems represent an alternative to third party certification, especially adapted to local markets and short supply chains. They can also complement third party certification with a private label that brings additional guarantees and transparency. PGS enable the direct participation of producers, consumers and other stakeholders in:\nFor many organic farmers, particularly in developing countries and emerging organic markets, third party certification is often difficult to access. PGS provides an alternative option that takes some burden from the farmers and is crucially linked to local products and local markets.\n\nIFOAM - Organics International also offers organic accreditation to certification bodies. \nCertifiers can have their processes audited against the IFOAM Accreditation Requirements. IOAS, an IFOAM - Organics International daughter company set up in 1997, offers the IFOAM Accreditation (analyses of standards and verification process) or the Global Organic System Accreditation (analyses of verification process only) and grants special recognition of credibility. The document ISO/IEC 17011: ‘Conformity assessment – General requirements for accreditation bodies accrediting conformity assessment bodies’ lays down internationally agreed rules for how accreditation should be performed. Various national bodies verify this accreditation including the US Department of Commerce National Institute of Standards & Technology.\n\nOn October 19, 1998, participants at the 12th Scientific Conference of IFOAM - Organics International issued the Mar del Plata Declaration, where more than 600 delegates from over 60 countries voted unanimously to exclude the use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in food production and agriculture. From that point GMOs have been categorically excluded from organic farming.\n\nText of the declaration:\n\nSigned by: Dr. Vandana Shiva (India), Hervé La Prairie (Outgoing IFOAM - Organics International president, France), Linda Bullard (Incoming IFOAM - Organics International president, USA/Belgium), Gunnar Rundgren (Incoming IFOAM - Organics International vice-president, Sweden), Gerald Hermann (IFOAM - Organics International Treasurer, Germany), Pipo Lernoud (Conference Coordinator, Argentina), Guillermo Schnitman (MAPO President, Argentina)\n\nOrganic agriculture can contribute to meaningful socio-economic and ecologically sustainable development, especially in poorer countries. On one hand, this is due to the application of organic principles, which means efficient management of local resources (e.g., local seed varieties, manure, etc.) and therefore cost-effectiveness. On the other hand, the market for organic products – at local and international level – has tremendous growth prospects and offers creative producers and exporters in the South excellent opportunities to improve their income and living conditions. IFOAM - Organics International is therefore active to give special support to the development of the Organic Agriculture Sector in Developing Countries through several means. Organic Agriculture is a very knowledge intensive production system. Therefore, capacity building efforts play a central role in this regard. There are many efforts all around the world regarding the development of training material and the organization of training courses related to Organic Agriculture. Existing knowledge is still scattered and not easy accessible. Especially in Developing Countries this situation remains an important constraint for the growth of the organic sector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "499439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=499439", "title": "Ignacy Domeyko", "text": "Ignacy Domeyko\n\nIgnacy Domeyko or Domejko, pseudonym: \"Żegota\" (, ; born near Nieśwież, now Karelichy District, Belarus, 31 July 1802 – 23 January 1889, Santiago de Chile) was a Polish geologist, mineralogist and educator. Domeyko spent most of his life, and died, in his adopted country, Chile.\n\nAfter a youth passed in partitioned Poland, Domeyko participated in the Polish November 1830 Uprising against the Russian Empire. Upon its suppression, he was forced into exile and spent part of his life in France (where he had gone with fellow Philomath, Polish poet Adam Mickiewicz) before eventually settling in Chile, of which he became a citizen.\n\nHe lived some 50 years in Chile and made major contributions to the study of that country's geography, geology and mineralogy. His observations on the circumstances of poverty-stricken miners and of their wealthy exploiters had a profound influence on those who would go on to shape Chile's labor movement.\n\nDomeyko is seen as having had close ties to several countries and thus in 2002, when UNESCO organized a series of commemorations of the 200th anniversary of his birth, he was referred to as \"a citizen of the world\".\n\nDomeyko was born at a manor house located within the then Russian partition of the former Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, at Niedźwiadka Wielka ( — Miadzviedka) Manor (Bear Cub Manor) near Nieśwież (Nesvizh), Minsk Governorate, Imperial Russia (now Karelichy district, Belarus). The Domeyko family held the Polish coat of arms \"Dangiel\". His father, Hipolit Domeyko, who was president of the local land court (), died when Ignacy was seven years old; his uncles then served as his guardians.\n\nIn his youth he was a subject of the Russian Empire. Domeyko, however, had been brought up in the culture of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, a multicultural state whose educated and dominant classes had spoken Polish as a \"lingua franca\" and that, shortly before Domeyko's birth, had been dismembered in the partitions of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. For this reason, and because Domeyko subsequently spent most of his life in Chile, he is considered a person of national importance to Poles, Belarusians, Lithuanians and Chileans.\n\nDomeyko enrolled at Vilnius University, then known as the Imperial University of Vilna, in 1816 as a student of mathematics and physics. He studied under Jędrzej Śniadecki. Involved with the Philomaths, a secret student organisation dedicated to Polish culture and the restoration of Poland's independence, he was a close friend of Adam Mickiewicz. In 1823–24, during the investigation and trials of the Philomaths, Domeyko and Mickiewicz spent months incarcerated at Vilnius' Uniate Basilian monastery.\n\nAfter participating in the November 1830 Uprising, in which Domeyko served as an officer under General Dezydery Chłapowski, in 1831 Domeyko was forced into exile in order not to face Russian reprisals.\n\nJourneying through Germany, he arrived in France, where he would earn an engineering degree at Paris' \"École des Mines\" (School of Mining). He also studied at the Sorbonne and maintained his political engagements with Belarusians, Poles, and Lithuanians.\n\nIn 1838 Domeyko left for Chile. There he made substantial contributions to mineralogy and the technology of mining, studied several previously unknown minerals, advocated for the civil rights of the native tribal peoples, and was a meteorologist and ethnographer. He is also credited with introducing the metric system to Latin America.\n\nHe served as a professor at a mining college in Coquimbo (La Serena) and after 1847 at the University of Chile (\"Universidad de Chile\", in Santiago), of which he was rector for 16 years (1867–83).\n\nDomeyko gained Chilean citizenship in 1849, but declared at the time that \"I may now never change my citizenship, but God grants me hope that wherever I may be—whether in the Cordilleras or in [the Vilnius suburb of] Paneriai—I shall die a Lithuanian.\" The term \"Lithuanian\" at that time, however, designated any inhabitant, whatever his ethnicity, of the territories of the former Grand Duchy of Lithuania.\n\nIn 1884 Domeyko returned for an extended visit to Europe and remained there until 1889, visiting his birthplace and other places in the former Commonwealth, as well as Paris and Jerusalem.\n\nIn 1887 he was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Jagiellonian University, in Kraków.\n\nIn 1889, soon after returning to Santiago, Chile, Domeyko died.\n\nNamed for Domeyko are the mineral \"domeykite\", the shellfish \"Nautilus domeykus\", the genus \"Domeykosaurus\", the ammonite \"Amonites domeykanus\", asteroid \"2784 Domeyko\", the \"Cordillera Domeyko\" mountain range in the Andes, and the Chilean town of \"Domeyko\".\n\nA bronze bust of Domeyko stands in the \"Casa Central\" of Santiago's University of Chile, of which Domeyko was long-time rector.\n\nIn 1992, a plaque in Spanish and Polish was placed on a building at \"Krakowskie Przedmieście 64\", in Warsaw, Poland, commemorating the \"distinguished son of the Polish nation and eminent citizen of Chile.\"\n\nOn the 200th anniversary of his birth, UNESCO declared 2002 to be \"Ignacy Domeyko Year.\" Several commemorative events were held in Chile under the auspices of Polish President Aleksander Kwaśniewski and Chilean President Ricardo Lagos.\n\nIn 2002, Poland and Chile jointly issued a postage stamp commemorating the 200th anniversary of Domeyko's birth.\n\nAlso in 2002, a 200th-birthday plaque honoring him was placed in the entry gate to Vilnius' Uniate Basilian monastery, where he and Adam Mickiewicz were held in 1823–24 during the investigation and trials of the Philomaths.\n\nIn 2015 a Belarusian climber Pavel Gorbunov placed a memorial plate on the top of Cerro Kimal in Cordillera Domeyko.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "787763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=787763", "title": "Ilium (Kurt Vonnegut)", "text": "Ilium (Kurt Vonnegut)\n\nIlium is a fictitious town in eastern New York state, used as a setting for many of Kurt Vonnegut's novels.\n\nThe name most likely refers to Troy, New York (\"Ilium\" was the name the Romans gave to ancient Troy), although Troy is mentioned as a separate city in \"Player Piano\". In all other respects, Ilium very closely resembles Schenectady, New York, with the fictional Iroquois River standing in for the real Mohawk River, which flows west–east through Schenectady. The Ilium Works is in roughly the same geographic location as the General Electric plant in Schenectady, where Vonnegut worked as a public relations writer. Still, the city of Ilium is quite clearly distinct from Schenectady, as characters in \"Player Piano\", \"Cat's Cradle\", and \"Slaughterhouse-Five\" refer to Schenectady as a separate place. Besides, Schenectady is in a real sense divided into three parts as in \"Player Piano\": Schenectady proper, Scotia across the Mohawk River, and Niskayuna.\n\nCohoes, longtime residence of Vonnegut's character Kilgore Trout, is in the vicinity of Ilium, and of the real towns that inspired it.\n\nIn Vonnegut's \"Galápagos\", Mary Hepburn was a high school teacher in Ilium, and in \"Cat's Cradle\", it is the former home of Dr. Felix Hoenikker—one of the fathers of the atomic bomb—thus, it is the town that John visits to interview Dr. Asa Breed, Hoenikker's former supervisor. In \"Player Piano\", it is where most of the action takes place. In \"Slaughterhouse-Five\", it is also the home town of the book's primary protagonist, Billy Pilgrim. Ilium is also where the events of the short story \"Ed Luby's Key Club\" (from \"Look at the Birdie\") take place.\n"}
{"id": "19011207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19011207", "title": "Index of Estonia-related articles", "text": "Index of Estonia-related articles\n\nThis page list topics related to Estonia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nList of Estonians\n"}
{"id": "3303265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3303265", "title": "Isoscapes", "text": "Isoscapes\n\nIsoscapes are spatially explicit predictions of elemental isotope ratios (δ) that are produced by executing process-level models of elemental isotope fractionation or distribution in a Geographic Information System (GIS). The word isoscape is derived from isotope landscape and was first coined by Dr. Jason B. West. Isoscapes of hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, and strontium have been used to answer scientific or forensic questions regarding the sources, partitioning, or provenance of natural and synthetic materials or organisms via their isotopic signatures. These include questions about migration, Earth's element cycles, human water use, climate, archaeological reconstructions, forensics, and pollution.\n"}
{"id": "8383978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8383978", "title": "Joe Painter", "text": "Joe Painter\n\nJoe Painter FAcSS (born 1965) is a British geographer and academic.\n\nHe is as of 2006 a professor in the Department of Geography and Associate Director in the International Centre for Regional Regeneration and Development Studies (ICRDS) at the University of Durham in the U.K.\n\nPainter has degrees in Geography from:\n\nPainter started to work as a teacher in the 1990s. Between 1991 and 1993 he was a geography lecturer at the University of Wales, Lampeter.\n\nSubsequent to this he moved to the University of Durham and became Professor there in 2004. During the academic year 2004-2005 Painter was on leave at the Australian National University in Canberra, where he was the Visiting Fellow in the Department of Human Geography, Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies (RSPAS).\n\nPainter has also become a member of various organizations and magazines:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16537", "title": "Johann Homann", "text": "Johann Homann\n\nJohann Baptist Homann (20 March 1664 – 1 July 1724) was a German geographer and cartographer, who also made maps of the Americas.\n\nHomann was born in Oberkammlach near Kammlach in the Electorate of Bavaria. Although educated at a Jesuit school, and preparing for an ecclesiastical career, he eventually converted to Protestantism and from 1687 worked as a civil law notary in Nuremberg. He soon turned to engraving and cartography; in 1702 he founded his own publishing house.\n\nHomann acquired renown as a leading German cartographer, and in 1715 was appointed Imperial Geographer by Emperor Charles VI. Giving such privileges to individuals was an added right that the Holy Roman Emperor enjoyed. In the same year he was also named a member of the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin. Of particular significance to cartography were the imperial printing privileges (Latin: \"privilegia impressoria\"). These protected for a time the authors in all scientific fields such as printers, copper engravers, map makers and publishers. They were also very important as a recommendation for potential customers.\n\nIn 1716 Homann published his masterpiece \"Grosser Atlas ueber die ganze Welt\" (Grand Atlas of all the World). Numerous maps were drawn up in cooperation with the engraver Christoph Weigel the Elder, who also published \"Siebmachers Wappenbuch\".\n\nHomann died in Nuremberg in 1724. He was succeeded by his son Johann Christoph (1703-1730). The company carried on upon his death as \"Homann heirs\" company, managed by Johann Michael Franz and Johann Georg Ebersberger. After subsequent changes in management the company folded in 1852. The company was known as \"Homann Erben\", \"Homanniani Heredes\", or \"Heritiers de Homann\" abroad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2256219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256219", "title": "Jukskei River", "text": "Jukskei River\n\nThe Jukskei River is one of the largest rivers in Johannesburg, South Africa. It is the southernmost river in the Crocodile River (West) basin.\n\nThe Jukskei begins in Ellis Park in Johannesburg. Its original spring was on the former Doornfontein farm, which measured at 18,000 liters per hour, but has since disappeared under subsequent urban development. Now the first surface expression of the Jukskei is in Bertrams at the intersection of Queen Street and Sports Avenue where it emerges from a storm drain. From there the river flows through Bezuidenhout Valley and is dammed in Bruma. It then meanders in a northerly direction through Bedfordview and Edenvale before flowing through Alexandra Township. It then turns northwest and flows through Modderfontein, Buccleuch, Leeuwkop Prison, Lone Hill, Dainfern and Steyn City before joining the Crocodile River (Limpopo) outside Lanseria.\n\nThe Jukskei River is joined by numerous streams along its course with its major tributaries being the Modderfontein Spruit, Braamfontein Spruit and Klein Jukskei River. The Jukskei River provides the largest amount of water, by discharge, into the Crocodile River (Limpopo) Basin.\n\nThe Jukskei is mostly shallow and not deep enough for transportation. It is also heavily polluted by urban runoff. Lack of infrastructure maintenance has let raw waste flow into the river on a daily basis. Cholera-causing bacteria have occasionally been found in the river. The river receives a large inflow from the Northern Waste Water Treatment Plant in northern Johannesburg. The Jukskei River is one of the largest contributing factors of the eutrophication problems facing Hartbeespoort Dam further down stream. Tons of waste such as plastic, metal and rubber flow down the river annually.\n\nThe banks are prone to bursting, especially in summer when rainfalls are the heaviest for the year regionally. This spells disaster for the impoverished residents of the Alexandra Township who often build makeshift shacks along the river banks owing to overcrowding and the need for access to water for washing, drinking, and cooking.\n\nThe Jukskei traditionally demarcated the boundary between the \"Northern Transvaal\" and \"Transvaal\" for sporting purposes, and teams like the Titans cricket team and Blue Bulls (formerly \"Northern Transvaal\") continue to be headquartered in Pretoria, north of the Jukskei.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54036", "title": "Jus sanguinis", "text": "Jus sanguinis\n\nJus sanguinis () is a principle of nationality law by which citizenship is not determined by place of birth but by having one or both parents who are citizens of the state. Children at birth may automatically be citizens if their parents have state citizenship or national identities of ethnic, cultural, or other origins. Citizenship can also apply to children whose parents belong to a diaspora and were not themselves citizens of the state conferring citizenship. This principle contrasts with \"jus soli\" (Latin: \"right of soil\").\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, the French-German debate on nationality saw the French, such as Ernest Renan, oppose the German conception, exemplified by Johann Fichte, who believed in an \"objective nationality\", based on blood, race or language. Renan's republican conception, but perhaps also the presence of a German-speaking population in Alsace-Lorraine, explains France's early adoption of \"jus soli\".\n\nMany nations have a mixture of \"jus sanguinis\" and \"jus soli\", including the United States Canada, Israel, Greece, the Republic of Ireland, and recently Germany. Today French nationality law narrowly applies \"jus sanguinis,\" but it is still the most common means of passing on citizenship in many continental European nations.\n\nSome modern European states which arose out of the dissolved Austro-Hungarian or Ottoman empires have huge numbers of ethnic populations outside of their new 'national' boundaries, as do most of the former Soviet states. Such long-standing diasporas do not conform to codified 20th-century European rules of citizenship.\n\nIn many cases, \"jus sanguinis\" rights are mandated by international treaty, with citizenship definitions imposed by the international community. In other cases, minorities are subject to legal and extra-legal persecution and choose to immigrate to their ancestral home country. States offering \"jus sanguinis\" rights to ethnic citizens and their descendants include Italy, Greece, Turkey, Bulgaria, Lebanon, Armenia and Romania. Each is required by international treaty to extend those rights.\n\n\nMany countries provide citizenship on preferential terms to individuals with ethnic ties to these countries (so-called \"leges sanguinis\"):\n\n"}
{"id": "18108783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18108783", "title": "List of F.C. Copenhagen managers", "text": "List of F.C. Copenhagen managers\n\nThis is a list of F.C. Copenhagen's managers and their records, from 1992, when the team was founded, to the present day.\n\nThe first manager of F.C. Copenhagen was Benny Johansen, who was manager of one of the mother clubs, B 1903, before 1992. Johansen has sat the position twice: the first period ended in 1994, but later same year he substituted Keld Kristensen, who only received 8 matches with the team.\n\nThere have been eight different permanent and two caretaker managers of FCK since 1992; one of the caretakers (Kim Brink) has managed the club in three separate spells. The longest-running manager in terms of time is Hans Backe (2001–2005), who also is the longest-running in terms of games. The only two persons, who has managed FCK, that isn't from Scandinavia is Roy Hodgson and Ariël Jacobs. The most successful permanent manager was Kent Karlsson, in terms of percentage of wins with 55.38%, while Christian Andersen is FCK's least successful (0.00%). Andersen is also the shortest-running permanent manager of FCK, and received only a single match, before he was fired.\n\n\"As of 28 May 2017. Only competitive matches are counted. Wins, losses and draws are results at the final whistle; the results of penalty shoot-outs are not counted.\"\n"}
{"id": "48693352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48693352", "title": "List of atmospheric pressure records in Europe", "text": "List of atmospheric pressure records in Europe\n\nThe following is a List of atmospheric pressure records in Europe and the extratropical Northern Atlantic (it does not include localised events, such as those that occur in tornados).\n\nExtreme pressure values in Europe show both seasonal and geographical differentiation. the greatest pressure extremes occur in winter (January) with the deepest lows occurring to the northwest of the continent with a diminishing influence of low pressure to the southeast towards Central Europe and Southeast Europe. This is related to the main cyclonic centre of the Icelandic low, and the North Atlantic extratropical storm track, close to which have been observed some of the lowest atmospheric pressures of the Northern Hemisphere outside the tropics. Extreme high values are favoured over the north east of Europe where intense cold and long winter nights lead to cooling of the air column by radiative cooling causing sinking air reinforcing the development of the highest pressures. Other influences include the semi-permanent Azores high, and Siberian highs.\n\nLand-based records for Europe:\n\nOther high values have been reported:\n\nPressure is thought to have risen above 1060 hPa in Europe on only 12 occasions between 1871–2010, in the years 1893, 1899, 1907, 1915, 1920, 1938, 1944, 1946, 1956, 1972, 1995 and 2008. To this list might also be included high pressure anticyclones in 1954 and 2012 (see above), and 1869. The most notable high in Europe peaked in January 1907. This was an unusual development that brought high pressure to the west, and holds the record across multiple countries in northeast Europe (Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, Germany, Slovakia).\n\n\nAnother value reported:\n\nHigh pressure in Iceland has exceeded 1050 hPa 4 times in the twentieth century and five times in the nineteenth century.\nClimatic Research Unit Emulate data 1874–2002, also gives values on 10 March 1887 at Stykkishólmur 1052.43 hPa and also 9 January 1977 at the same location 1050.47 hPa.\n\nIn July the pressure in Iceland has only dropped below 975 hPa or lower three times over the entire record extending back to the 1820s. These cases were 974.1 hPa in Stykkishólmur on 18 July 1901, 974.3 hPa in Stykkishólmur on 19 July 1923 and 975.0 hPa in Reykjavík 11 July 1912.—to which can be added 22 July 2012, with 972.4 hPa reported on the Westman Isles, becoming the new national record for the month.\n\nA recent low pressure on 30 December 2015 was recorded at Kirkjubaejarklaustur (associated with an area of low pressure known as Eckard/Frank) at 930.2 hPa, the lowest pressure recorded on land in Iceland since 1989.\n\nThe Danish Meteorological Institute report record atmospheric pressure for the Faroe Islands (since 1961) as:\n\nClimatic Research Unit Emulate data 1874–2002 give 3 dates when pressure exceeded 1050 hPa in Tórshavn.\nMet Éireann list the following national records for atmospheric pressure:\n\n1957–2005\n\nAn earlier value on 8 December 1886, Cronkbourne .\n\nFor the United Kingdom, the Met Office record the record figures for atmospheric pressure (which are nominally since 1870) as:\n\nThough the lowest pressure may be second to the Night of the big wind low, which saw a value of at Sumburgh Head, Shetland on non-calibrated, non-standard equipment 6–7 January 1839, with the mainland at Cape Wrath reporting an observed pressure of .\n\nOn 26 January 1884, during the Ochtertyre storm the Ben Nevis summit weather station recorded a low pressure of 784.7 hPa (at high altitude (above 750 m) and not reduced to sea level) this is proposed as being almost certainly the lowest surface pressure ever recorded in the UK, though due to altitude and not being a value reduced to sea level is not considered comparable to the other records presented here.\n\nA low pressure of 914.0mb affected the UK during the Braer Storm on 10 January 1993, however this figure is discounted as this reading was not recorded in the UK.\n\nIn the period of instrumental measurement the atmospheric pressure has exceeded 1048 hPa somewhere over the United Kingdom and Ireland on 17 occasions. On nine of these times, the pressure exceeded 1050 hPa—a value not exceeded since 1957 in Ireland, and since 26 January 1932 over the UK. Intense high pressure is usually seen during midwinter with 7 of the 9 occasions where 1050 hPa has been exceeded occurring in January.\n\nPressure values have been recorded to have exceeded 1050 hPa in all areas of the UK and Ireland except south east England, though values close to this are documented from January 1882 and January 1905.\n\nCyclone Oratia is estimated to have reached a low of 941 hPa in peer reviewed literature, though the lowest pressure occurred between Aberdeen and Norway over the North Sea and is not a land-based observation. The lowest land-based reported UK pressure during this storm was recorded from RAF Fylingdales at 951.2 hPa.\n\nOn 7 September 1995, Scilly Isles, reported a low pressure of 966 hPa. The lowest minimum recorded values for the months May to August lie within 0.5 of 968 hPa.\n\nThe 20th Century low pressure record in the UK occurred on 20 December 1982 at Sule Skerry it may have dropped as low as 936 mbar.\n\n\nBased on Burt (2007).\n\nSame as UK national records.\n\nAlt. 8 December 1886, Newton Reigny in Cumbria, .\n\nYr.no the joint venture between the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation and the Norwegian Meteorological Institute give the national pressure records as:\n\nA value of 702.0 mm Hg at Bergen Lungegård Hospital on January 27, 1884 (935.8 hPa) is also reported, which is likely to be from the same low as the UK record from Ochtertyre the previous day. Other sources give a pressure value of 939.8 hPa or 939.7 hPa in Bergen on 27 January 1884.\n\nBoth records in same winter as each other and those of Denmark.\n\nThe Danish Meteorological Institute report record barometric pressure for Denmark (since 1874) as:\n\nDanish records both occurred within a month during the same winter, and same winter as Norwegian records.\n\nThe Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute give the nation's barometric records as:\n\nAccording to the Finnish Meteorological Institute:\n\nThough a reported low value by Weather Underground weather historian Christopher Burt on 1 March 1990 at an unknown location is reported at 939.7 hPa.\n\nMaximum pressure in Europe 22–23 January 1907 recorded in Pärnu, Estonia and Riga, Latvia at 1067.1 mbar. The Free University of Berlin state the European air pressure record is 23 January 1907 in Riga at 1068.7 hPa.\n\nAs reported by the Estonian Weather Service\n\n‡The Estonian Weather Service report on their website the record maximum observed air pressure in the country as 1060.3 hPa recorded 23 January 1907 in Tallinn. This figure is not supported by NOAA reanalysis charts and the values reported from neighbouring Finland and Latvia probably make this figure an underestimation or error. A possible maximum pressure value for the whole of Europe is thought to have occurred during the 22–23 January 1907 high pressure event with a record set in Pärnu, Estonia and Riga, Latvia at 1067.1 mbar. Though this value is exceeded by the value on 23 January 1907 in Riga reported at 1068.7 hPa by the Free University of Berlin's student generated reports, at which time the pressure is estimated to have reached around 1070 hPa by Yr.no in the Gulf of Riga.\n\nIn the period 1960 to 2014, 16 December 1997 Daugavpils a value of 1055.8 hPa recorded.\n\n23 January 1907 1065.1 hPa.\n\n1862–2005\n\nGuernsey Airport 1960–2005.\n\nMétéo-France figures from 1951-2012.\nthough other listed figures predate Météo-France's records.\n\nOn 28 January 1905 values of in Biarritz, and in Brest are listed in the Met Office Daily Weather Report. On the 29 January 1905, the atmospheric pressure reached a value of 1049.3 hPa in Paris.\n\nThe Belgian Royal Meteorological Institute gives the national record values as:\n\nThe Dutch Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute lists the following as national records:\n\nThe German weather service (DWD) give the\n\nOther record figures and locations are also presented:\n\nIt is likely 23 January 1907 saw a pressure of 1064.8 ± 0.5 mbar over polish territory. Other high pressures are reported as 1051.1 hPa January 22, 2006, 1050 hPa January 3, 1993 and 1048 hPa 10 December 1991.\n\nReanalysis data show a low record likely occurred on 17 January 1931 when a below 960 hPa low moved over the Baltic skirting the very north of today's Polish territory.\n\nOther high pressures in Switzerland are given as 3–4 March 1990 at Zurich Airport of >1047 hPa and 29 January 1989 at Schaffhausen of 1047.2 hPa, which was the highest pressure in the country since the 1950s, when values on 15 February 1959 at Kloten reached 1047.1 hPa. A high value of 1050.2 hPa at Bern on 17 January 1882 is proposed as having occurred (on an internet forum).\n\nA private weather station in Balzers, southwest Liechtenstein reported on 28 December 2016 a value of 1046.4 hPa under the high named Yörn, described as a record by the Liechtensteiner Vaterland.\n\n\nA pressure value above >1050 hPa is also proposed on internet forums on 16 January 1882.\n\nAlternate low records are cited on the internet: 26 February 1989 at Mariánské Lázně 967.3 hPa, also 2 December 1976 Hradec Králové 970.1 hPa.\n\nThe Hungarian Meteorological Service (OMSZ) gives the following values:\n\nNotable atmospheric pressure reports from offshore and in the North Atlantic are:\n\nA lower value is reported from 27–28 February 1988 at 1053 hPa centred at approximately 53.5° N, 25.6° W.\n\nFor comparison, the lowest Atlantic basin tropical cyclone low pressure is Hurricane Wilma in 2005, which holds the record at 882 hPa.(see list of most intense tropical cyclones in the North Atlantic).\n\nSimilarly low extra-tropical values elsewhere have only been documented near Antarctica, with 919 hPa observed at Casey Station on the Windmill Islands (just outside the Antarctic Circle) on August 8–9, 1976 at Vincennes Bay (66°17’S 110°31’E). Though this value is considerably lower than any other on record and could conceivably be a fault with the recording instrument, though values are internally consistent with readings below 940 mb at this time.\n\nThe two lowest extra-tropical pressures reported from the Pacific basin are the 8 November 2014 Bering Sea cyclone at 924 hPa (warnings for the low to reach 920 hPa were released by the Japan Meteorological Agency), and the 13 December 2015 North Pacific low at 924 hPa.\n\nDuring a typical winter, one or perhaps two low pressure areas in the North Atlantic will deepen below 950 hPa, with pressures only deepening below 940 hPa on average once or twice per decade. Before the satellite and weather model era, records (mostly from shipping) reported barometric pressures over the extratropical North Atlantic as going as low as 925 hPa, with values below 940 hPa being very rare occurrences. The frequency of very deep depressions (central pressure below about 940 hPa) in the North Atlantic is thought to have increased significantly since the winter of 1982/83 to 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "53092960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53092960", "title": "List of countries by number of Fields Medalists", "text": "List of countries by number of Fields Medalists\n\nThis article includes a list of countries by number of Fields Medal winners. That is, a list of countries ranked by their Fields Medalists.\n\nThe figures include all Fields Medals awarded up to and including 03 August 2018 by their country of birth and citizenship at the time of the announcement of the award.\n\n"}
{"id": "12237517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12237517", "title": "List of diplomatic missions of São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "List of diplomatic missions of São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions of São Tomé and Príncipe, excluding honorary consulates. São Tomé and Príncipe is a small Portuguese-speaking island country in the Gulf of Guinea, Central Africa. It has a very small number of diplomatic missions.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11889028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11889028", "title": "List of flags of Malta", "text": "List of flags of Malta\n\nThe following is a list of flags of Malta.\n\nSome flags had been used prior to the creation of local councils in 1993. The coats of arms of the local councils are officially recognised, however the flags are not and thus a number of variants exist. Since 1993, a new local council, Mtarfa, has been created, and the local councils of Attard, Birżebbuġa, Floriana, Kalkara, Lija, Mellieħa, Mġarr, Mosta, Nadur, Naxxar, Paola, Qrendi, Siġġiewi, Xgħajra and Żebbuġ have changed their flags and coats of arms. Some, such as Mosta, had minor differences, but others, like Xgħajra changed the arms completely.\n\n"}
{"id": "16563439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16563439", "title": "List of political and geographic subdivisions by total area from 100,000 to 1,000,000 square kilometers", "text": "List of political and geographic subdivisions by total area from 100,000 to 1,000,000 square kilometers\n"}
{"id": "59110900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59110900", "title": "List of regions of Peru by GDP", "text": "List of regions of Peru by GDP\n\nThis is a list of Regions of Peru by GDP and GDP per capita. The equivalent countries which are comparable to the Peruvian regions in GDP are chosen by Worldbank data for the same year.\n\nRegions by GDP in 2015 according to data by the OECD.\nRegions by GDP per capita in 2014 according to data by the OECD.\n"}
{"id": "8922112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8922112", "title": "List of universities in Istanbul", "text": "List of universities in Istanbul\n\nThis list of universities in Istanbul lists the universities within the city limits of Istanbul.\n\n"}
{"id": "4435755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4435755", "title": "Ludogorie", "text": "Ludogorie\n\nThe Ludogorie (, usually used with a definite article, Лудогорието, \"Ludogorieto\") or Deliorman (Делиорман, ), all meaning \"region of mad forests\" (Bulgarian: lud - \"mad\", \"crazy\" and gora - \"forest\"), is a region in northeastern Bulgaria stretching over the plateau of the same name. Major cities in the region are Razgrad, Novi Pazar, Pliska and Isperih. Part of the Danubian Plain, the region is hilly in the east, reaching up to in height near the village of Samuil, but merges with the plains of Dobruja and the Danube to the north, with the lowest point near Yuper (). The region is bordered to the west by the Provadiya River and the Beli Lom; to the east it transitions into the Dobruja plateau.\n\nThe plateau was formed of Karst limestone from the Lower Cretaceous covered by loess material. Among the region's geological resources are kaolinite, fireclay and mica. The climate is temperate continental, with up to of precipitation yearly. Although the Ludogorie is poor in overground water resources, with only a few low rivers such as the Krapinets and the Kulak, it is rich in underground waters. \n\nIn ancient times, the Ludogorie was inhabited by the Thracian tribes of the Getae who left behind local architectural landmarks such as the Thracian Tomb of Sveshtari, a richly-decorated 3rd-century BC tomb that is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Until the end of the 18th century, the Ludogorie was largely dominated by forests that merged with the ones of the Balkan Mountains (\"Stara Planina\") to the south, giving the name of the region both in Bulgarian and Turkish, literally translated as \"region of wild forests\" in English. In recent times, the forests have been nearly completely replaced by arable land and only the woods in the Voden Reserve are the reminiscent of the former larger forest area. The soil from the chopped down forests is a rich soil with humus, very eligible for agriculture.\n\n\"Ludogorie\" is a relatively new name, a Slavic calque of the older Turkish name \"Deliorman\"; it was officially introduced in 1950. In 1942, the name had been changed to \"Polesie\", a Slavic toponym meaning \"place by the woods\", but this name never entered common use. The Turkish name is etymologically and semantically akin to the name of Teleorman County in southern Romania.\n\nThe Ludogorie mostly belongs to Razgrad Province, with a western part in Ruse Province, and has a mixed population of Bulgarians, Turks and Romani. The Ludogorie has attained fame for its oil wrestlers throughout the time, including Koca Yusuf and Hergeleci Ibrahim.\n\nLudogorie Peak on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica bears the name of the region. PFC Ludogorets Razgrad, the football club of Razgrad, was also named after the Ludogorie region.\n\n"}
{"id": "5678721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5678721", "title": "Nakhon Suvarnabhumi Province", "text": "Nakhon Suvarnabhumi Province\n\nNakhon Suvarnabhumi () was a proposed new province of Thailand in the southeast of Bangkok around the new Bangkok airport. It is planned to cover the districts Lat Krabang and Prawet of Bangkok and Bang Sao Thong and Bang Phli of Samut Prakan Province, an area of 521 km² with about 462,000 residents.\n\nThe proposal was announced in October 2005, with a draft bill approved by the cabinet in June 2006. According to the bill, for the first four years the province will be run by a governor appointed by the Interior Ministry and supervised by a 30-member administrative board chaired by the prime minister. After the four years the administrative board will be dissolved, but the final administrative structure of the province is not yet set. It is planned to become a special administrative zone, probably having an elected governor like Bangkok. A final bill was scheduled to be submitted after the political crisis of 2006, however after the coup d'état it has become quiet about the project.\n\nThe establishment of a new province and the further development of the area around the airport have been criticized by several groups, most notably the Bangkok Metropolitan Authority. The previously unsettled areas are used as part of the flood-prevention system of Bangkok, which may be compromised by further urbanization in that area. The plan also found negative response in surveys among the local population.\n\nThe proposal was finally withdrawn by a resolution of the cabinet dated 3 April 2007.\n"}
{"id": "37858311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37858311", "title": "Natural Resources Forum", "text": "Natural Resources Forum\n\nNatural Resources Forum is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the Division of Sustainable Development in the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs. The journal was established in 1976 and covers issues of sustainable development in developing countries. Specific topics of interest to this journal include agriculture, energy, globalization, and natural resources.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.292, ranking it 66th out of 98 journals in the category \"Environmental Studies\" and 161 out of 216 journals in the category \"Environmental Sciences\".\n"}
{"id": "3981247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3981247", "title": "Nullah", "text": "Nullah\n\nA nullah or nulla ( or \"nallah\" in Punjabi) is an 'arm of the sea', stream, or watercourse, a steep narrow valley. Like the wadi of the Arabs, the nullah is characteristic of mountainous or hilly country where there is little rainfall.\n\nIn the drier parts of India and Pakistan, and in many parts of Australia, there are small steep-sided valleys penetrating the hills, clothed with rough brushwood or small trees growing in the stony soil. During occasional heavy rains, torrents rush down the nullahs and quickly disappear. There is little local action upon the sides, while the bed is lowered, and consequently these valleys are narrow and steep. In cities on the Delhi plain in India, nullahs are concrete or brick-lined ditches about deep and wide, used to divert monsoon rain away from the cities.\n\nIn East Asia, a nullah () refers to an open, usually concrete-lined channel designed to allow rapid drainage of storm precipitation or industrial wastewater from high ground, to prevent flooding of urbanised coastal areas. It basically is a canal that is dry most of the time. One such example is the Kai Tak Nullah in Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "42007694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42007694", "title": "Parián", "text": "Parián\n\nPariáns were districts of cities in the Philippines during the country's Spanish colonial era where Chinese were required to live by Spanish colonial authorities. In Luzon there are several towns and cities with district for chinese settlers, the most famous is the parian of Manila, other is Vigan and Malolos established in 1700s. Chinese enclave of Malolos were from migrants from Manila. In Visayas, Cebu City and Iloilo City had also parians. Cebu's parian was founded in 1590 after the arrival of Chinese traders and was supervised by the Jesuits. Molo was the location of Iloilo's parian.\n"}
{"id": "14468535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14468535", "title": "Quist", "text": "Quist\n\nQuist is a surname. It usually is of Scandinavian origin as a variant of Qvist. It is also a Dutch toponymic surname from the island of Tholen, referring to a piece of land called \"`t Quistken\". People with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "621182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621182", "title": "Reference ellipsoid", "text": "Reference ellipsoid\n\nIn geodesy, a reference ellipsoid is a mathematically defined surface that approximates the geoid, the truer figure of the Earth, or other planetary body.\nBecause of their relative simplicity, reference ellipsoids are used as a preferred surface on which geodetic network computations are performed and point coordinates such as latitude, longitude, and elevation are defined.\n\nIn the context of standardization and geographic applications, a \"geodesic reference ellipsoid\" is the mathematical model used as foundation by Spatial reference system or Geodetic datum definitions.\n\nIn 1687 Isaac Newton published the Principia in which he included a proof that a rotating self-gravitating fluid body in equilibrium takes the form of an oblate ellipsoid of revolution which he termed an oblate spheroid. Current practice uses the word 'ellipsoid' alone in preference to the full term 'oblate ellipsoid of revolution' or the older term 'oblate spheroid'. In the rare instances (some asteroids and planets) where a more general ellipsoid shape is required as a model the term used is triaxial (or scalene) ellipsoid. A great many ellipsoids have been used with various sizes and centres but modern (post-GPS) ellipsoids are centred at the actual center of mass of the Earth or body being modeled.\n\nThe shape of an (oblate) ellipsoid (of revolution) is determined by the shape parameters of that ellipse which generates the ellipsoid when it is rotated about its minor axis. The semi-major axis of the ellipse, \"a\", is identified as the equatorial radius of the ellipsoid: the semi-minor axis of the ellipse, \"b\", is identified with the polar distances (from the centre). These two lengths completely specify the shape of the ellipsoid but in practice geodesy publications classify reference ellipsoids by giving the semi-major axis and the \"inverse \"flattening, , The flattening, \"f\", is simply a measure of how much the symmetry axis is compressed relative to the equatorial radius: \nFor the Earth, \"f\" is around corresponding to a difference of the major and minor semi-axes of approximately . Some precise values are given in the table below and also in Figure of the Earth. For comparison, Earth's Moon is even less elliptical, with a flattening of less than , while Jupiter is visibly oblate at about and one of Saturn's triaxial moons, Telesto, is nearly to .\n\nA great many other parameters are used in geodesy but they can all be related to one or two of the set \"a\", \"b\" and \"f\". They are listed in ellipse.\n\nA primary use of reference ellipsoids is to serve as a basis for a coordinate system of latitude (north/south), longitude (east/west), and elevation (height).\nFor this purpose it is necessary to identify a \"zero meridian\", which for Earth is usually the Prime Meridian. For other bodies a fixed surface feature is usually referenced, which for Mars is the meridian passing through the crater Airy-0. It is possible for many different coordinate systems to be defined upon the same reference ellipsoid.\n\nThe longitude measures the rotational angle between the zero meridian and the measured point. By convention for the Earth, Moon, and Sun it is expressed in degrees ranging from −180° to +180° For other bodies a range of 0° to 360° is used.\n\nThe latitude measures how close to the poles or equator a point is along a meridian, and is represented as an angle from −90° to +90°, where 0° is the equator. The common or \"geodetic latitude\" is the angle between the equatorial plane and a line that is normal to the reference ellipsoid. Depending on the flattening, it may be slightly different from the \"geocentric (geographic) latitude\", which is the angle between the equatorial plane and a line from the center of the ellipsoid. For non-Earth bodies the terms \"planetographic\" and \"planetocentric\" are used instead.\n\nThe coordinates of a geodetic point are customarily stated as geodetic latitude and longitude, i.e., the direction in space of the geodetic normal containing the point, and the height \"h\" of the point over the reference ellipsoid. See geodetic system for more detail. If these coordinates, i.e., latitude \"ϕ\", longitude \"λ\" and height \"h\", are given, one can compute the \"geocentric rectangular coordinates\" of the point as follows:\n\nwhere\nand \"a\" and \"b\" are the equatorial radius (semi-major axis) and the polar radius (semi-minor axis), respectively. \"N\" is the \"radius of curvature in the prime vertical\".\n\nIn contrast, extracting \"φ\", \"λ\" and \"h\" from the rectangular coordinates usually requires iteration. A straightforward method is given in an OSGB publication and also in web notes. More sophisticated methods are outlined in geodetic system.\n\nCurrently the most common reference ellipsoid used, and that used in the context of the Global Positioning System, is the one defined by WGS 84.\n\nTraditional reference ellipsoids or \"geodetic datums\" are defined regionally and therefore non-geocentric, e.g., ED50. Modern geodetic datums are established with\nthe aid of GPS and will therefore be geocentric, e.g., WGS 84.\n\nReference ellipsoids are also useful for geodetic mapping of other planetary bodies including planets, their satellites, asteroids and comet nuclei. Some well observed bodies such as the Moon and Mars now have quite precise reference ellipsoids.\n\nFor rigid-surface nearly-spherical bodies, which includes all the rocky planets and many moons, ellipsoids are defined in terms of the axis of rotation and the mean surface height excluding any atmosphere. Mars is actually egg shaped, where its north and south polar radii differ by approximately , however this difference is small enough that the average polar radius is used to define its ellipsoid. The Earth's Moon is effectively spherical, having almost no bulge at its equator. Where possible, a fixed observable surface feature is used when defining a reference meridian.\n\nFor gaseous planets like Jupiter, an effective surface for an ellipsoid is chosen as the equal-pressure boundary of one bar. Since they have no permanent observable features, the choices of prime meridians are made according to mathematical rules.\n\nSmall moons, asteroids, and comet nuclei frequently have irregular shapes. For some of these, such as Jupiter's Io, a scalene (triaxial) ellipsoid is a better fit than the oblate spheroid. For highly irregular bodies, the concept of a reference ellipsoid may have no useful value, so sometimes a spherical reference is used instead and points identified by planetocentric latitude and longitude. Even that can be problematic for non-convex bodies, such as Eros, in that latitude and longitude don't always uniquely identify a single surface location.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3220689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3220689", "title": "Richard Winer", "text": "Richard Winer\n\nRichard Winer (May 14, 1925 – October 11, 2016) was an American author of books dealing mainly with mysteries and the paranormal. \n\nHe is best known for his work on the Bermuda Triangle: \"The Devil's Triangle\" (1974, Bantam Books), \"The Devil's Triangle 2\" (Bantam Books 1975), and \"From The Devil's Triangle to The Devil's Jaw\" (Bantam Books 1977). He also completed a TV film documentary on the Devil's Triangle.\n\nWiner claimed that there were \"mysterious\" things going on in the Bermuda Triangle but denied any paranormal involvement. He stated that \"all the answers lie in human error, mechanical malfunction, freak weather or magnetic anomalies.\"\n\nWiner was a ghost hunter. He wrote several books about ghosts and haunted houses. His book \"Haunted Houses\" (1979) was co-authored with Nancy Osborn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9705986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9705986", "title": "Rocky Island, South China Sea", "text": "Rocky Island, South China Sea\n\nRocky Island (; Vietnamese: \"Đảo Đá\") is one of the Paracel Islands in the South China Sea. It is under the administration of the People's Republic of China and guarded by the PLA Navy. The island is also claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam.\n\nUntil 2016-2017, Rocky Island was connected to Woody Island by an 800 metre concrete causeway. Land reclamation in 2016-2017 has joined the two islands by a larger area of land.\n\nA signals intelligence station was built on Rocky Island in 1995, mainly because the island is the highest point in the Paracel Islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "152559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152559", "title": "Strait of Dover", "text": "Strait of Dover\n\nThe Strait of Dover or Dover Strait, historically known as the Dover Narrows ( - \"Strait of Calais\"); or \"Straat van Dover\"), is the strait at the narrowest part of the English Channel, marking the boundary between the Channel and North Sea, separating Great Britain from continental Europe. The shortest distance across the strait, , is from the South Foreland, northeast of Dover in the English county of Kent, to Cap Gris Nez, a cape near to Calais in the French département of Pas-de-Calais. Between these points lies the most popular route for cross-channel swimmers. The entire strait is within the territorial waters of France and the United Kingdom, but a right of transit passage under the UNCLOS exists allowing unrestricted shipping.\n\nOn a clear day, it is possible to see the opposite coastline of England from France and vice versa with the naked eye, with the most famous and obvious sight being the white cliffs of Dover from the French coastline and shoreline buildings on both coastlines, as well as lights on either coastline at night, as in Matthew Arnold's poem \"Dover Beach\".\n\nMost maritime traffic between the Atlantic Ocean and the North Sea and Baltic Sea passes through the Strait of Dover, rather than taking the longer and more dangerous route around the north of Scotland. The strait is the busiest international seaway in the world, used by over 400 commercial vessels daily. This has made traffic safety a critical issue, with HM Coastguard and the Maritime Gendarmerie maintaining a 24-hour watch over the strait and enforcing a strict regime of shipping lanes.\n\nIn addition to the intensive east–west traffic, the strait is crossed from north to south by ferries linking Dover to Calais and Dunkirk. Until 1994 these provided the only route across it for land transport. The Channel Tunnel now provides an alternative route, crossing beneath the strait at an average depth of below the seabed.\n\nThe town of Dover gives its name to one of the sea areas of the British Shipping Forecast.\n\nThe strait is believed to have been created by the erosion of a land bridge that linked the Weald in Great Britain to the Boulonnais in the Pas de Calais. The predominant geology on both the British and French sides and on the seafloor is chalk. Although somewhat resistant to erosion, erosion of both coasts has created the famous white cliffs of Dover in the UK and the Cap Blanc Nez in France. The Channel Tunnel was bored through solid chalk.\n\nThe Rhine (as the Urstrom) flowed northwards into the North Sea as the sea level fell during the start of the first of the Pleistocene Ice Ages. The ice created a dam from Scandinavia to Scotland, and the Rhine, combined with the Thames and drainage from much of north Europe, created a vast lake behind the dam, which eventually spilled over the Weald into the English Channel. This overflow channel became the Strait of Dover about 425,000 years ago. A narrow deep channel along the middle of the strait was the bed of the Rhine in the last Ice Age. A geological deposit in East Anglia marks the old preglacial northward course of the Rhine.\n\nA 2007 study concluded the English Channel was formed by erosion caused by two major floods. The first was about 425,000 years ago, when an ice-dammed lake in the southern North Sea overflowed and broke the Weald-Artois chalk range in a catastrophic erosion and flood event. Afterwards, the Thames and Scheldt flowed through the gap into the English Channel, but the Meuse and Rhine still flowed northwards. In a second flood about 225,000 years ago the Meuse and Rhine were ice-dammed into a lake that broke catastrophically through a high weak barrier (perhaps chalk, or an end-moraine left by the ice sheet). Both floods cut massive flood channels in the dry bed of the English Channel, somewhat like the Channeled Scablands or the Wabash River in the USA.\nA further update in 2017, attributed a series of previously described underwater holes in the Channel floor -\"100m deep\" and in places \"several kilometres in diameter\" to lake water plunging over a rock ridge causing isolated depressions or plunge pools.\nThe melting ice and rising sea levels submerged Doggerland, the area linking Britain to France 6,500–6,200 BCE.\n\nThe Lobourg strait, a major feature of the strait's seafloor, runs its wide slash on a NNE–SSW axis. Nearer to the French coast than to the English coast, it runs along the Varne sandbank where it plunges to at its deepest, and along the latter's south-east neighbour the Ridge bank (French name \"Colbart\") with a maximum depth of .\nThe submarine depth of the strait varies between at the Lobourg strait and at the highest banks. It presents a succession of rocky areas relatively deserted by ships wanting to spare their nets, and of sandy flats and sub-aqueous dunes. The strong currents of the Channel are slowed down around the rocky areas of the strait, with formation of countercurrents and calmer zones where many species can find shelter. In these calmer zones, the water is clearer than in the rest of the strait; thus algae can grow despite the average depth and help increase diversity in the local species – some of which are endemic to the strait. Moreover, this is a transition zone for the species of the Atlantic Ocean and those of the southern part of the North Sea.\n\nThis mix of various environments promotes a wide variety of wildlife.\n\nThe \" de Boulogne\", a deep rocky high ground partially covered with sand located to the west of Boulogne, boasts the highest production of maerl in the strait.\n\nA area of the strait is classified as a Natura 2000 protection zone listed under the name \" et dunes hydrauliques du Pas de Calais\" (Ridens and sub-aqueous dunes of the Dover Strait). This area includes the sub-aqueous dunes of Varne, Colbart, Vergoyer and Bassurelle, the \"Ridens de Boulogne\", and the Lobourg channel which provides calmer and clearer waters due to its depth reaching .\n\nMany crossings other than in conventional vessels have been attempted, including by pedalo, jetpack, bathtub, amphibious vehicle and more commonly by swimming. French law bans many of these while English law does not, so most such crossings originate in England.\n\nIn the late 17th century during the \"Little Ice Age\", there were reports of severe winter ice in the Strait of Dover, including a case in 1684 of only a league of open water remaining between Dover and Calais.; see for another report of severe ice in the English Channel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5600051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5600051", "title": "Supercorridor", "text": "Supercorridor\n\nA supercorridor is a proposed new type of transportation infrastructure in the United States. \n\nA supercorridor would use swaths of land up to 1,200 feet (370 m) wide to carry parallel links of freeways, rails, and utility lines. The freeway portions would be divided into two separate elements: truck lanes and lanes for passenger vehicles. Similarly, the rail lines in the corridor would be divided among freight, commuter, and high-speed rail. Services expected to be carried in the utility corridor include water, electricity, natural gas and petroleum, plus fiber optic lines and other telecommunications services.\n\nSupercorridors bypass traditional national borders instead using inland ports known as \"smartports\". Border guards and customs officers would check the cargo at these inland ports.\n\nCritics of supercorridors complain that existing transportation infrastructure is not being invested in and maintained. Other critics are concerned about the environmental damage which might occur by creating a supercorridor. Still others are concerned about issues of national and state sovereignty, and the possible increased danger of terrorism, in the rapid transfer of individuals, goods and materials across borders. Acquisition of large swaths of land for such corridors have created questions about property rights and the use of eminent domain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58764873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58764873", "title": "Svampen", "text": "Svampen\n\nSvampen is a water tower in Örebro. It replaced the Norra Vattentornet and Södra vattentornet in 1988. It was created by architect Sune Lindström. It is 58 meters high. To prevent suicide attempts in 2012 Örebro commune decided to built a net cage around the edges of the Svampen.\n"}
{"id": "40861149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40861149", "title": "Swell (geology)", "text": "Swell (geology)\n\nA swell in geology is a domed area of considerable areal extent.\n\nAccording to Leser, it is also called a sill (geology), and is a gently arched landform of various orders of size in topographic, sub-glacial or sub-hydric geology. It may be as small as a rock formation in a river or may assume continental scale.\n"}
{"id": "20834020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20834020", "title": "The Lion (mountain)", "text": "The Lion (mountain)\n\nThe Lion is a mountain in South West Tasmania. It lies on the North West end of the Frankland Range jutting out toward the East from the range toward the impoundment Lake Pedder. It is directly South of The Cupola and North of The Citadel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40708232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40708232", "title": "William Desborough Cooley", "text": "William Desborough Cooley\n\nWilliam Desborough Cooley (1795?–1883) was an Irish geographer. Discoveries by European explorers gradually showed that a number of his theories about Central Africa, though strongly held, were incorrect. In other controversies his position is now considered to have had some justification. His major contributions are now seen as relating to source criticism of historical records, the understanding of West Africa, and as a perceptive historian of globalisation.\n\nCooley was born in Dublin, the son of William Cooley, a barrister, and grandson of Thomas Cooley the architect. He studied at Trinity College, Dublin from 1811 to 1816. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society (RGS) of London in 1830, being made an honorary free member in 1864. On the publication of Jean Baptiste Douville's \"Voyage au Congo\" in 1832, Cooley wrote an article in the \"Foreign Quarterly Review\", which was instrumental in exposing the fraud practised by Douville.\n\nAfter the Douville incident, Cooley became an influential figure for a time in the RGS. He proposed, working with William Fitzwilliam Owen, a naval expedition to East Africa. One set off under Captain James Alexander, but on calling at the Cape of Good Hope became involved in the Sixth Xhosa War, was diverted to South-west Africa, and proved financially burdensome for the RGS. Cooley's concrete plans for exploration never came to fruition. He also quarrelled with Alexander Maconochie, secretary of the RGS, and undermined his position there. His main achievement in the learned world was the foundation in 1846 of the Hakluyt Society.\n\nCooley held and defended strong views on the geography of Central Africa. He rejected the existence of snow-covered mountains there, even after Karl Klaus von der Decken and Richard Thornton's return from Mount Kilimanjaro in 1863. In 1864 he was still insisting that Lake Nyassa and Lake Tanganyika formed a single body of water.\n\nA speaker of Kiswahili, which he had learned in London from a Zanzibari, Cooley was for many years supported almost solely by the civil list pension granted to him in 1859. He died on 1 March 1883.\n\nCooley wrote, for Lardner's \"Cabinet Cyclopædia\", \"The History of Maritime and Inland Discovery\", 3 vols. 1830–1. This book, a contribution to the history of globalisation, is now considered innovative and influential. It was the first work to have covered seriously the topic of communication between the different parts of the globe, and to have treated \"exploration\" as a historical process. It was translated into French, Dutch and Italian.\n\nIn 1852 Cooley published \"Inner Africa laid open\", an attempt to trace the major lines of communication across the continent south of the Equator. In this work, relying based on Portuguese and African sources, he maintained that there existed just one great lake in Central Africa, and that the snowy mountains reported by Johann Ludwig Krapf and Johannes Rebmann were myths.\n\nCooley contributed to the \"Journal of the Royal Geographical Society\", and wrote a series of controversial articles on African subjects to the \"Athenæum\". With some treatises on geometry, he also published:\n\n\n"}
