{"id": "304601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304601", "title": "1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine", "text": "1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine\n\nThe 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine, later came to be known as \"The Great Revolt\", was a nationalist uprising by Palestinian Arabs in Mandatory Palestine against the British administration of the Palestine Mandate, demanding Arab independence and the end of the policy of open-ended Jewish immigration and land purchases with the stated goal of establishing a \"Jewish National Home\". The dissent was directly influenced by the Qassamite rebellion, following the killing of Sheikh Izz ad-Din al-Qassam in 1935, as well as the declaration by Hajj Amin al-Husseini of 16 May 1936 as 'Palestine Day' and calling for a General Strike. The revolt was branded by many in the Jewish Yishuv as \"immoral and terroristic\", often comparing it to fascism and nazism. Ben Gurion however described Arab causes as fear of growing Jewish economic power, opposition to mass Jewish immigration and fear of the English identification with Zionism.\n\nThe general strike lasted from April to October 1936, initiating the violent revolt. The revolt consisted of two distinct phases. The first phase was directed primarily by the urban and elitist Higher Arab Committee (HAC) and was focused mainly on strikes and other forms of political protest. By October 1936, this phase had been defeated by the British civil administration using a combination of political concessions, international diplomacy (involving the rulers of Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Transjordan and Yemen) and the threat of martial law. The second phase, which began late in 1937, was a violent and peasant-led resistance movement provoked by British repression in 1936 that increasingly targeted British forces. During this phase, the rebellion was brutally suppressed by the British Army and the Palestine Police Force using repressive measures that were intended to intimidate the Arab population and undermine popular support for the revolt. During this phase, a more dominant role on the Arab side was taken by the Nashashibi clan, whose NDP party quickly withdrew from the rebel Arab Higher Committee, led by the radical faction of Amin al-Husseini, and instead sided with the British – dispatching \"Fasail al-Salam\" (the \"Peace Bands\") in coordination with the British Army against nationalist and Jihadist Arab \"Fasail\" units (literally \"bands\").\n\nAccording to official British figures covering the whole revolt, the army and police killed more than 2,000 Arabs in combat, 108 were hanged, and 961 died because of what they described as \"gang and terrorist activities\". In an analysis of the British statistics, Walid Khalidi estimates 19,792 casualties for the Arabs, with 5,032 dead: 3,832 killed by the British and 1,200 dead because of \"terrorism\", and 14,760 wounded. Over ten percent of the adult male Palestinian Arab population between 20 and 60 was killed, wounded, imprisoned or exiled. Estimates of the number of Palestinian Jews killed range from 91 to several hundred.\n\nThe Arab revolt in Mandatory Palestine was unsuccessful, and its consequences affected the outcome of the 1948 Palestine war. It caused the British Mandate to give crucial support to pre-state Zionist militias like the Haganah, whereas on the Palestinian Arab side, the revolt forced the flight into exile of the main Palestinian Arab leader of the period, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem – Haj Amin al-Husseini.\n\nIn 1930 Sheikh Izz ad-Din al-Qassam organized and established the Black Hand, an anti-Zionist and anti-British militant organization. He recruited and arranged military training for peasants and by 1935 he had enlisted between 200 and 800 men. They were engaged in a campaign of vandalizing trees planted by farmers and British-constructed rail lines. In November 1935, two of his men engaged in a firefight with the Palestine Police patrol hunting fruit thieves and a policeman was killed. Following the incident, the police launched a manhunt and surrounded al-Qassam in a cave near Ya'bad. In the ensuing battle, al-Qassam was killed.\n\nThe death of al-Qassam generated widespread outrage among Palestinian Arabs. Huge crowds accompanied Qassam's body to his grave in Haifa.\n\nThe dissent in Palestine was influenced also by the discovery in October 1935 at the port of Jaffa of a large arms shipment destined for the Haganah, sparking Arab fears of a Jewish military takeover of Palestine, Jewish immigration also peaked in 1935, just months before Palestinian Arabs began a full-scale, nationwide revolt. In the four years between 1933 and 1936\nmore than 164,000 Jewish immigrants arrived in Palestine, and between 1931 and 1936 the Jewish population more than doubled from 175,000 to 370,000 people, increasing the Jewish population share from 17% to 27%, and bringing about a significant deterioration in relations between Palestinian Arabs and Jews.\n\nThe uprising began with the 1936 Anabta shooting, a 15 April 1936 roadblock that stopped a convoy of trucks on the Nablus to Tulkarm road during which the (probably Qassamite) assailants shot two Jewish drivers, Israel Khazan, who was killed instantly, and Zvi Dannenberg, who died five days later. The next day members of the militant Jewish faction, the Irgun, shot and killed two Arab workers sleeping in a hut near Petah Tikva in a revenge attack. Then the funeral for Khazan in Tel Aviv on 17 April attracted a huge crowd, and some Jews beat up Arab bystanders and destroyed property. This was followed by the Bloody Day in Jaffa, in which an Arab mob rampaged through a residential area killing Jews and destroying property. An Arab general strike and revolt ensued that lasted until October 1936.\n\nDuring the summer of that year, thousands of Jewish-farmed acres and orchards were destroyed, Jewish civilians were attacked and murdered, and some Jewish communities, such as those in Beisan and Acre, fled to safer areas.\n\nEconomic factors played a major role in the outbreak of the Arab revolt. Palestine's fellahin, the country's peasant farmers, comprised over two-thirds of the indigenous Arab population and from the 1920s onwards they were pushed off the land in increasingly large numbers into urban environments where they often encountered only poverty and social marginalisation. Many were crowded into shanty towns in Jaffa and Haifa where they found succor and encouragement in the teachings of the charismatic preacher Izz ad-Din al-Qassam who worked among the poor in Haifa. The revolt was thus a popular uprising that produced its own leaders and developed into a national revolt.\n\nWorld War I left Palestine, especially the countryside, deeply impoverished. The Ottoman and then the Mandate authorities levied high taxes on farming and agricultural produce and during the 1920s and 1930s this together with a fall in prices, cheap imports, natural disasters and paltry harvests all contributed to the increasing indebtedness of the fellahin. The rents paid by tenant fellah increased sharply, owing to increased population density, and transfer of land from Arabs to the Jewish settlement agencies, such as the Jewish National Fund, increased the number of fellahin evicted while also removing the land as a future source of livelihood. By 1931 the 106,400 dunums of low-lying Category A farming land in Arab possession supported a farming population of 590,000 whereas the 102,000 dunums of such land in Jewish possession supported a farming population of only 50,000. The problem of 'landless' Arabs grew particularly grave after 1931, causing High Commissioner Wauchope to warn that this 'social peril ... would serve as a focus of discontent and might even result in serious disorders.'\n\nAlthough the Mandatory government introduced measures to limit the transfer of land from Arabs to Jews these were easily circumvented by willing buyers and sellers. The failure of the authorities to invest in economic growth and healthcare and the Zionist policy of ensuring that their investments were directed only to facilitate expansion of the Yishuv further compounded matters. The government did, however, set the minimum wage for Arab workers below that for Jewish workers, which meant that those making capital investments in the Yishuv's economic infrastructure, such as Haifa's electricity plant, the Shemen oil and soap factory, the Grands Moulins flour mills and the Nesher cement factory, could take advantage of cheap Arab labour pouring in from the countryside. After 1935 the slump in the construction boom and further concentration by the Yishuv on an exclusivist Hebrew labour programme removed most of the sources of employment for rural migrants. By 1935 only 12,000 Arabs (5% of the workforce) worked in the Jewish sector, half of these in agriculture, whereas 32,000 worked for the Mandate authorities and 211,000 were either self-employed or worked for Arab employers.\n\nThe ongoing disruption of agrarian life in Palestine, which had been continuing since Ottoman times, thus created a large population of landless peasant farmers who subsequently became mobile wage workers who were increasingly marginalised and impoverished; these became willing participants in nationalist rebellion.\n\nInitially, the conflict with Zionism helped to make Palestinian Arab society more conservative in cultural, social, religious and political affairs because people were highly motivated to preserve their distinct heritage and identity against the dual impact of British colonialism and Jewish innovation. Traditionally, the Arabs had an elite, but not a real leadership. Both of these things changed over the course of the 1930s. During this period new political organizations and new types of activist began to appear, marking the involvement of a far broader cross-section of the population; in particular, nationalism, which had been long-rooted in rural society began to take hold in urban society.\n\nYouth organisations proliferated at this time; these included the Young Men's Muslim Association, which from 1931 agitated for armed resistance against the Zionists, the Youth Congress Party, which expressed pan-Arab sentiments, and the Palestinian Boy Scout Movement, founded early in 1936, which became active in the general strike.\n\nWomen's organisations, which had been active in social matters, became politically involved from the end of the 1920s, with an Arab Women's Congress held in Jerusalem in 1929 attracting 200 participants, and an Arab Women's Association (later Arab Women's Union) being established at the same time, both organised by feminist Tarab Abdul Hadi.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 1930s new political parties began to appear, including the Independence Party, which called for an Indian Congress Party-style boycott of the British, the pro-Nashashibi National Defence Party, the pro-Husayni Palestinian Arab Party the pro-Khalidi Arab-Palestinian Reform Party, and the National Bloc, based mainly around Nablus.\n\nA few militant secret societies, which advocated armed struggle were formed; these included the Green Hand, which was active in the hills around Safad, but eliminated by the British in 1931, the Organization for Holy Struggle, led by Abd al-Qadir al-Husayni and active in the Hebron area, which was later to play an important role in the 1948 Palestine War, and the Young Rebels or Avenging Youth, active in the Tulkarm and Qalqilyah area from 1935.\n\nTraditional feasts such as Nebi Musa began to acquire a political and nationalist dimension and new national memorial days were introduced or gained new significance; among them Balfour Day (2 November, marking the Balfour Declaration of 1917), the anniversary of the Battle of Hattin (4 July, marking Saladin's recapture of Jerusalem), and beginning in 1930 May 16 was celebrated as Palestine Day.\n\nThe expansion of education, the development of civil society and of transportation, communications, and especially of broadcasting and other media, all facilitated these changes.\n\nA number of political changes in neighbouring Arab countries illustrated to the Palestinian Arabs what could be achieved in a Western colony through political pressure and negotiating skill.\n\nIn Syria a general strike took place from 20 January to 6 March 1936 spreading to all the major towns, and political demonstrations held throughout the country gave fresh momentum to the Syrian national movement. Although French reprisals were harsh the government agreed on 2 March to the formation of a Syrian delegation to travel to Paris to negotiate a Franco-Syrian Treaty of Independence. This demonstrated that determined economic and political pressure could challenge a fragile imperial administration.\n\nIn Egypt on 2 March 1936 a series of formal negotiations between the United Kingdom and Egypt began leading to the Anglo-Egyptian Treaty of 1936, which granted independence to Egypt, but allowed the British to keep forces in the Suez Canal Zone.\n\nIn Iraq a general strike in July 1931, accompanied by organised demonstrations in the streets, led to independence for the former British mandate territory under prime minister Nuri as-Said, and full membership of the League of Nations in October 1932.\n\nThe strike began on 19 April in Nablus, where an Arab National Committee was formed, and by the end of the month National Committees had been formed in all of the towns and some of the larger villages. On 21 April the leaders of the five main parties accepted the decision at Nablus and called for a general strike of all Arabs engaged in labour, transport and shopkeeping for the following day.\n\nWhile the strike was initially organised by workers and local committees, under pressure from below, political leaders became involved to help with co-ordination. This led to the formation on 25 April 1936 of the Arab Higher Committee (AHC). The Committee resolved \"to continue the general strike until the British Government changes its present policy in a fundamental manner\"; the demands were threefold: (1) the prohibition of Jewish immigration; (2) the prohibition of the transfer of Arab land to Jews; (3) the establishment of a National Government responsible to a representative council.\n\nAbout one month after the general strike started, the leadership group declared a general non-payment of taxes in explicit opposition to Jewish immigration.\n\nIn the countryside, armed insurrection started sporadically, becoming more organised with time. One particular target of the rebels was the Mosul–Haifa oil pipeline of the Iraq Petroleum Company constructed only a few years earlier to Haifa from a point on the Jordan River south of Lake Tiberias. This was repeatedly bombed at various points along its length. Other attacks were on railways (including trains) and on civilian targets such as Jewish settlements, secluded Jewish neighbourhoods in the mixed cities, and Jews, both individually and in groups.\n\nThe measures taken against the strike were harsh at the beginning and grew harsher as it went along involving house searches without warrants, night raids, preventive detention, caning, flogging, deportation, confiscation of property, and torture. As early as May 1936 the British formed armed Jewish units equipped with armoured vehicles to serve as auxiliary police.\n\nThe British government in Palestine was convinced that the strike had the full support of the Palestinian Arabs and they could see \"no weakening in the will and spirit of the Arab people.\" Air Vice-Marshall Richard Peirse, commander of British forces in Palestine and Transjordan from 1933 to 1936, reported that because the rebel armed bands were supported by villagers,\n\nIt was quickly evident that the only way to regain the initiative from the rebels was by initiating measures against the villagers from which the rebels and saboteurs came ... I therefore initiated, in co-operation with the Inspector-General of Police R. G. B. Spicer, village searches. Ostensibly, these searches were undertaken to find arms and wanted persons, actually the measures adopted by the Police on the lines of similar Turkish methods, were punitive and effective.\nIn reality the measures created a sense of solidarity between the villagers and the rebels. The pro-Government Mayor of Nablus complained to the High Commissioner that, \"During the last searches effected in villages properties were destroyed, jewels stolen, and the Holy Qur'an torn, and this has increased the excitement of the fellahin.\" However, Moshe Shertok of the Jewish Agency even suggested that all villages in the area of an incident should be punished.\n\nOn 2 June, an attempt by rebels to derail a train bringing the 2nd Battalion Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire Regiment from Egypt led to the railways being put under guard, placing a great strain on the security forces. In response to this situation on 4 June the government rounded up a large number of Palestinian leaders and sent them to a detention camp at Auja al-Hafir in the Negev desert.\n\nThe Battle of Nur Shams on 21 June marked an escalation with the largest engagement of British troops against Arab militants so far in this Revolt.\n\nDuring July, Arab volunteers from Syria and Transjordan, led by Fawzi al-Qawukji, helped the rebels to divide their formations into four fronts, each led by a District Commander who had armed platoons of 150–200 fighters, each commanded by a platoon leader.\n\nA Statement of Policy issued by the Colonial Office in London on 7 September declared the situation a: \"direct challenge to the authority of the British Government in Palestine\" and announced the appointment of Lieutenant-General John Dill as supreme military commander. By the end of September British troops in Palestine were deployed to \"round up Arab bands\".\n\nIn June 1936 the British involved their clients in Transjordan, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Egypt in an attempt to pacify the Palestinian Arabs and on 9 October the rulers made an appeal for the strike to be ended. A more pressing concern may have been the approaching citrus harvest and the soaring prices that were available because of the disruption caused to the Spanish citrus harvest by the Spanish Civil War.\n\nThe strike was called off on 11 October 1936 and the violence abated for about a year while the Peel Commission deliberated. The Royal Commission was announced on 18 May 1936 and its members were appointed on 29 July, but the Commission did not arrive in Palestine until 11 November.\n\nThe Commission, which concluded that 1,000 Arab rebels had been killed during the strike, later described the disturbances as \"an open rebellion of the Palestinian Arabs, assisted by fellow-Arabs from other countries, against Mandatory rule\" and noted two unprecedented features of the revolt: the support of all senior Arab officials in the political and technical departments in the Palestine administration (including all of the Arab judges) and the \"interest and sympathy of the neighbouring Arab peoples\", which had resulted in support for the rebellion in the form of volunteers from Syria and Iraq.\nIn the early 1920s the first High Commissioner of Palestine, Herbert Samuel, failed to create a unified political structure embracing both Palestinian Arabs and Palestinian Jews in constitutional government with joint political institutions. This failure facilitated internal institutional partition in which the Jewish Agency exercised a degree of autonomous control over the Jewish settlement and the Supreme Muslim Council performed a comparable role for Muslims. Thus, well before Lord Peel arrived in Palestine on 11 November 1936, the groundwork for territorial partition as proposed by the Royal Commission in its report on 7 July 1937 had already been done.\n\nPeel's main recommendation was for partition of Palestine into a small Jewish state (based on current Jewish land ownership population and incorporating the country's most productive agricultural land), a residual Mandatory area, and a larger Arab state linked to Transjordan. A second and more radical proposal was for transfer of 225,000 Palestinian Arabs from the Jewish state to the Arab state and Transjordan. It is likely that Zionist leaders played a role in persuading Peel to accept the notion of transfer, which had been a strand of Zionist ideology from its inception.\n\nThe Arab Higher Committee rejected the recommendations immediately, as did the Jewish Revisionists. Initially, the religious Zionists, some of the General Zionists, and sections of the Labour Zionist movement opposed the recommendations. Ben-Gurion was delighted by the Peel Commission's support for transfer, which he viewed as the foundation of \"national consolidation in a free homeland.\" Subsequently, the 2 main Jewish leaders, Chaim Weizmann and Ben Gurion had convinced the Zionist Congress to approve equivocally the Peel recommendations as a basis for further negotiation, and to negotiate a modified Peel proposal with the British.\n\nThe British government initially accepted the Peel report in principle. However, with war clouds looming over Europe, they realized that to attempt to implement it against the will of the Palestinian Arab majority would rouse up the entire Arab world against Britain. The Woodhead Commission considered three different plans, one of which was based on the Peel plan. Reporting in 1938, the Commission rejected the Peel plan primarily on the grounds that it could not be implemented without a massive forced transfer of Arabs (an option that the British government had already ruled out). With dissent from some of its members, the Commission instead recommended a plan that would leave the Galilee under British mandate, but emphasised serious problems with it that included a lack of financial self-sufficiency of the proposed Arab State. The British Government accompanied the publication of the Woodhead Report by a statement of policy rejecting partition as impracticable due to \"political, administrative and financial difficulties\".\n\nWith the failure of the Peel Commission's proposals the revolt resumed during the autumn of 1937 marked by the assassination on 26 September of Acting District Commissioner of the Galilee Lewis Andrews by Arab gunmen in Nazareth. On 30 September, regulations were issued allowing the Government to detain political deportees in any part of the British Empire, and authorizing the High Commissioner to outlaw associations whose objectives he regarded as contrary to public policy. Haj Amin al-Husseini was removed from the leadership of the Supreme Moslem Council and the General Waqf Committee, the local National Committees and the Arab Higher Committee were disbanded; five Arab leaders were arrested and deported to the Seychelles; and in fear of arrest Jamal el-Husseini fled to Syria and Haj Amin el-Husseini to Lebanon; all frontiers with Palestine were closed, telephone connections to neighbouring countries were withdrawn, press censorship was introduced and a special concentration camp was opened near Acre.\n\nIn November 1937, the Irgun formally rejected the policy of Havlagah and embarked on a series of indiscriminate attacks against Arab civilians as a form of what the group called \"active defense\" against Arab attacks on Jewish civilians. The British authorities set up military courts, which were established for the trial of offenses connected with the carrying and discharge of firearms, sabotage and intimidation. Despite this, however, the Arab campaign of murder and sabotage continued and Arab gangs in the hills took on the appearance of organized guerrilla fighters.\n\nViolence continued throughout 1938. In July 1938, when the Palestine Government seemed to have largely lost control of the situation, the garrison was strengthened from Egypt, and in September it was further reinforced from England. The police were placed under the operational control of the army commander, and military officials superseded the civil authorities in the enforcement of order. In October the Old City of Jerusalem, which had become a rebel stronghold, was reoccupied by the troops. By the end of the year a semblance of order had been restored in the towns, but terrorism continued in rural areas until the outbreak of the Second World War.\n\nDespite cooperation of the Yishuv with the British to quell the revolt, some incidents towards the end of the conflict indicated a coming change in relations. On 12 June 1939, A British explosives expert was killed trying to defuse an Irgun bomb near a Jerusalem post office. On 26 August, two British police officers, Inspector Ronald Barker and Inspector Ralph Cairns, commander of the Jewish Department of the C.I.D., were killed by an Irgun mine in Jerusalem.\n\nIn the final fifteen months of the revolt alone there were 936 murders and 351 attempted murders; 2,125 incidents of sniping; 472 bombs thrown and detonated; 364 cases of armed robbery; 1,453 cases of sabotage against government and commercial property; 323 people abducted; 72 cases of intimidation; 236 Jews killed by Arabs and 435 Arabs killed by Jews; 1,200 rebels killed by the police and military and 535 wounded.\n\nMilitary law allowed swift prison sentences to be passed. Thousands of Arabs were held in administrative detention, without trial, and without proper sanitation, in overcrowded prison camps.\n\nThe British had already formalised the principle of collective punishment in Palestine in the 1924–1925 Collective Responsibility and Punishment Ordinances and updated these ordinances in 1936 with the Collective Fines Ordinance. These collective fines (amounting to £1,000,000 over the revolt) eventually became a heavy burden for poor Palestinian villagers, especially when the army also confiscated livestock, destroyed properties, imposed long curfews and established police posts, demolished houses and detained some or all of the Arab men in distant detention camps.\n\nFull martial law was not introduced but in a series of Orders in Council and Emergency Regulations, 1936–37 'statutory' martial law, a stage between semi-military rule under civil powers and full martial law under military powers, and one in which the army and not the civil High Commissioner was pre-eminent was put in place. Following the Arab capture of the Old City of Jerusalem in October 1938, the army effectively took over Jerusalem and then all of Palestine.\n\nThe main form of collective punishment employed by the British forces was destruction of property. Sometimes entire villages were reduced to rubble, as happened to Mi'ar in October 1938; more often several prominent houses were blown up and others were trashed inside. The biggest single act of destruction occurred in Jaffa on 16 June 1936, when large gelignite charges were used to cut long pathways through the old city, destroying 220–240 buildings and rendering up to 6,000 Arabs homeless. Scathing criticism for this action from Palestine Chief Justice Sir Michael McDonnell was not well received by the administration and the judge was soon removed from the country. Villages were also frequently punished by fines and confiscation of livestock. The British even used sea mines from the battleship HMS \"Malaya\" to destroy houses.\n\nIn addition to actions against property, a large amount of brutality by the British forces occurred, including beatings, torture and extrajudicial killings. A surprisingly large number of prisoners were \"shot while trying to escape\". Several incidents involved serious atrocities, such as massacres at al-Bassa and Halhul. Desmond Woods, an officer of the Royal Ulster Rifles, described the massacre at al-Bassa:\n\nNow I will never forget this incident ... We were at al-Malikiyya, the other frontier base and word came through about 6 o'clock in the morning that one of our patrols had been blown up and Millie Law [the dead officer] had been killed. Now Gerald Whitfeld [Lieutenant-Colonel G.H.P. Whitfeld, the battalion commander] had told these mukhtars that if any of this sort of thing happened he would take punitive measures against the nearest village to the scene of the mine. Well the nearest village to the scene of the mine was a place called al-Bassa and our Company C were ordered to take part in punitive measures. And I will never forget arriving at al-Bassa and seeing the Rolls Royce armoured cars of the 11th Hussars peppering Bassa with machine gun fire and this went on for about 20 minutes and then we went in and I remembered we had lighted braziers and we set the houses on fire and we burnt the village to the ground ... Monty had him [the battalion commander] up and he asked him all about it and Gerald Whitfeld explained to him. He said \"Sir, I have warned the mukhtars in these villages that if this happened to any of my officers or men, I would take punitive measures against them and I did this and I would've lost control of the frontier if I hadn't.\" Monty said \"All right but just go a wee bit easier in the future.\"\n\nAs well as destroying the village the RUR and men from the Royal Engineers collected around fifty men from al-Bassa and blew some of them up with explosion under a bus. Harry Arrigonie, a policeman who was present said that about twenty men were put onto a bus; those who tried to escape were shot and then the driver of the bus was forced to drive over a powerful land mine buried by the soldiers which completely destroyed the bus, scattering the mutilated bodies of the prisoners everywhere. The other villagers were then forced to bury the bodies in a pit.\n\nDespite these measures Lieutenant-General Haining, the General Officer Commanding, reported secretly to the Cabinet on 1 December 1938 that \"practically every village in the country harbours and supports the rebels and will assist in concealing their identity from the Government Forces.\" Haining reported the method for searching villages:\n\nA cordon round the area to be searched is first established either by troops or aircraft and the inhabitants are warned that anybody trying to break through the cordon is likely to be shot. As literally hundreds of villages have been searched, in some cases more than once, during the past six months this procedure is well-known and it can be safely assumed that cordon-breakers have good reasons for wishing to avoid the troops. A number of such cordon-breakers have been shot during searches and it is probable that such cases form the basis of the propaganda that Arab prisoners are shot in cold blood and reported as \"killed while trying to escape\". After the cordon is established the troops enter the village and all male inhabitants are collected for identification and interrogation.\n\nThe report was issued in response to growing concern at the severity of the military measures amongst the general public in Great Britain, among members of the British Government, and among governments in countries neighbouring Palestine.\n\nIn addition to actions against villages the British Army also conducted punitive actions in the cities. In Nablus in August 1938 almost 5,000 men were held in a cage for two days and interrogated one after another. During their detention the city was searched and then each of the detainees was marked with a rubber stamp on his release. At one point a night curfew was imposed on most of the cities.\n\nIt was common British army practice to make local Arabs ride with military convoys to prevent mine attacks and sniping incidents: soldiers would tie the hostages to the bonnets of lorries, or put them on small flatbeds on the front of trains. The army told the hostages that any of them who tried to run away would be shot. On the lorries, some soldiers would brake hard at the end of a journey and then casually drive over the hostage, killing or maiming him, as Arthur Lane, a Manchester Regiment private recalled:\n ... when you'd finished your duty you would come away nothing had happened no bombs or anything and the driver would switch his wheel back and to make the truck waver and the poor wog on the front would roll off into the deck. Well if he was lucky he'd get away with a broken leg but if he was unlucky the truck behind coming up behind would hit him. But nobody bothered to pick up the bits they were left. You know we were there we were the masters we were the bosses and whatever we did was right ... Well you know you don't want him any more. He's fulfilled his job. And that's when Bill Usher [the commanding officer] said that it had to stop because before long they'd be running out of bloody rebels to sit on the bonnet.\nBritish troops also left Arab wounded on the battlefield to die and maltreated Arab fighters taken in battle, so much so that the rebels tried to remove their wounded or dead from the field of battle. Sometimes, soldiers would occupy villages, expel all of the inhabitants and remain for months. The Army even burned the bodies of \"terrorists\" to prevent their funerals becoming the focus of protests.\n\nNevertheless, it has been argued that British behaviour overall was good compared to most other examples where a foreign army suppressed a popular insurgency.\n\nSir Charles Tegart was a senior police officer brought into Palestine from the colonial force of British India on 21 October 1937.\nTegart and his deputy David Petrie (later head of MI5) advised a greater emphasis on foreign intelligence gathering and closure of Palestine's borders. Like many of those enrolled in the Palestinian gendarmerie, Tegart had served in Great Britain's repression of the Irish War of Independence, and the security proposals he introduced exceeded measures adopted down to this time elsewhere in the British Empire. 70 fortresses were erected throughout the country at strategic choke points and near Palestinian villages which, if assessed as \"bad\", were subjected to collective punishment. Accordingly, from 1938 Gilbert Mackereth, the British Consul in Damascus, corresponded with Syrian and Transjordan authorities regarding border control and security to counteract arms smuggling and \"terrorist\" infiltration and produced a report for Tegart on the activities of the Palestine Defence Committee in Damascus. Tegart recommended the construction of a frontier road with a barbed wire fence, which became known as Tegart's wall, along the borders with Lebanon and Syria to help prevent the flow of insurgents, goods and weapons. Tegart encouraged close co-operation with the Jewish Agency. It was built by the Histadrut construction company Solel Boneh. The total cost was £2 million. The Army forced the fellahin to work on the roads without pay.\n\nTegart introduced Arab Investigation Centres where prisoners were subjected to beatings, foot whipping, electric shocks, denailing and what is now known as \"waterboarding\". Tegart also imported Doberman Pinschers from South Africa and set up a special centre in Jerusalem to train interrogators in torture.\n\nThe Royal Air Force developed close air support into its then most refined form during the Arab Revolt. Air patrols had been found effective in keeping convoys and trains free from attack, but this did not help to expose insurgents to battle conditions likely to cause their defeat. From the middle of June 1936 wireless vehicles accompanied all convoys and patrols. During rebel attacks these vehicles could issue emergency \"XX calls\" (XX with a coded location), which were given priority over all other radio traffic, to summon aerial reinforcements. Bombers, which were usually airborne within five minutes, could then either attack insurgents directly or \"fix\" their position for infantry troops. Forty-seven such XX calls were issued during the revolt, causing heavy losses to the rebels. In the June 1936 Battle of Nur Shams British planes attacked Arab irregulars with machine gun fire.\n\nThis use of air power was so successful that the British were able to reduce the regular garrison.\n\nIn 1936 an Air Staff Officer in Middle East Command based in the Kingdom of Egypt, Arthur Harris, known as an advocate of \"air policing\", commented on the revolt saying that \"one 250 lb. or 500 lb. bomb in each village that speaks out of turn\" would satisfactorily solve the problem. In 1937 Harris was promoted to Air Commodore and in 1938 he was posted to Palestine and Trans-Jordan as Air Officer Commanding the RAF contingent in the region until September 1939. \"Limited\" bombing attacks on Arab villages were carried out by the RAF, although at times this involved razing whole villages. Harris described the system by which recalcitrant villages were kept under control by aerial bombardment as \"Air-Pin\".\n\nAircraft of the RAF were also used to drop propaganda leaflets over Palestinian towns and villages telling the fellahin that they were the main sufferers of the rebellion and threatening an increase in taxes.\n\nLow flying RAF squadrons were able to produce detailed intelligence on the location of road blocks, sabotaged bridges, railways and pipelines. RAF aerial photographs were also used to build up a detailed map of Arab population distribution.\n\nAlthough the British Army was responsible for setting up the Arab counter-insurgent forces (known as the peace bands) and supplying them with arms and money these were operated by RAF Intelligence, commanded by Patrick Domville.\n\nAt the beginning of the revolt RAF assets in the region comprised a bomber flight at RAF Ramleh, an RAF armoured car flight at Ramleh, fourteen bomber squadrons at RAF Amman, and a RAF armoured car company at Ma'an.\n\nAt the beginning of the Revolt crew from the Haifa Naval Force's two cruisers were used to carry out tasks ashore, manning two howitzers and naval lorries equipped with QF 2 pounder naval guns and searchlights used to disperse Arab snipers. From the end of June two destroyers were used to patrol the coast of Palestine in a bid to prevent gun running. These searched as many as 150 vessels per week and were an effective preventive measure. At the request of the Army additional naval platoons landed in July to help protect Haifa and Jewish settlements in the surrounding countryside. The Navy also relieved the Army of duties in Haifa by using nine naval platoons to form the \"Haifa Town Force\" and in August three naval platoons were landed to support the police.\n\nFollowing publication of the Peel Commission's report in July 1937 HMS \"Repulse\" sailed to Haifa where landing parties were put ashore to maintain calm. Various other naval vessels continued with this role until the end of the revolt.\n\nFollowing the Irgun's detonation of a large bomb in a market in Haifa on 6 July 1938 the High Commissioner signalled the Commander-in-Chief of the Mediterranean Fleet, Admiral Sir Dudley Pound, requesting the assistance of naval vessels capable of providing landing parties. Pound dispatched HMS \"Repulse\" and diverted HMS \"Emerald\" to Haifa, which arrived the same day and landed five platoons, one to each police district. HMS \"Repulse\" relieved HMS \"Emerald\" the following day and after another bomb was detonated on 10 July five platoons from the ship, made up of sailors and Royal Marines, dispersed mobs and patrolled the city.\n\nOn 11 July provision of three platoons from \"Repulse\" released men of the West Kent Regiment for a punitive mission against Arabs who had attacked a Jewish colony near Haifa. By 17 July the \"Repulse\" established a Company Headquarters where seamen and Royal Marines manned a 3.7-inch howitzer. Sailors, Royal Marines, and men of the Suffolk Regiment, who had embarked on the \"Repulse\", accompanied foot patrols of the Palestine Police Force.\n\nThe \"Repulse\", and HMS \"Warspite\" provided howitzer crews which were sent ashore to combat gun running near the border with Lebanon. Detained Arabs were used to build emplacements and the howitzers were moved quickly between these positions by day and night to confuse bandits as to the likely direction of fire. Periodically, the guns were used to fire warning rounds close to the vicinity of villages believed to have rebel sympathies.\n\nBritain had completed the modern deep-sea port in Haifa in 1933 and finished laying a pipeline from the Iraqi oilfields to Haifa in 1935, shortly before the outbreak of the revolt. A refinery for processing oil from the pipeline was completed by Consolidated Refineries Ltd, a company jointly owned by British Petroleum and Royal Dutch Shell, in December 1939.\n\nThese facilities enhanced the strategic importance of Palestine and of Haifa in particular in Britain's control of the eastern Mediterranean. The threat to British control of the region posed by the Italian invasion of Abyssinia in October 1935 and the deteriorating situation in Europe toward the end of the 1930s probably made British policy makers more willing to make concessions to Arab governments on the Palestine issue following the furore over the recommendations of the Peel Commission.\n\nThe Arab Revolt was the last major test of Britain's security services in the Middle East before World War II. The development and deployment of intelligence-led counterinsurgency strategies was integral to the restoration of British imperial control in Palestine as the revolt had demonstrated to the British authorities how a popular rebellion could undermine intelligence gathering operations and thereby impair their ability to predict and respond to inter-communal disorder. The rebellion had brought together urban nationalism and peasant economic grievances arising from rural poverty and landlessness, which was blamed on British misrule. Accordingly, the Palestinian revolt targeted the political and economic apparatus of the British colonial state, including the communications network, pipelines, police stations, army outposts and British personnel. It was this aspect of the revolt, rather than attacks on Jews or violence between rivals for leadership of the national movement, that most concerned the high commissioner. The mandate authorities were further disturbed by the unity of purpose displayed during the six-month general strike and by the resurgence of pan-Arab nationalism as evidenced by the rise of the Istiqlal Party.\n\nIn response to these challenges the British army command (\"I\" Branch) and battalion headquarters across Palestine issued a daily intelligence bulletin every afternoon detailing political developments. Special Service Officers (SSOs) assigned to intelligence gathering reported directly to their local command headquarters and their cars were equipped with wireless transmitters so that high grade intelligence could be reported directly to \"I\" Branch immediately. These sources of intelligence gradually became more important than those of the C.I.D. in Palestine, which had been dependent on Arab informers, and which were no longer reliable.\n\nIn September 1937, the Jewish Agency appointed Reuven Zaslany liaison officer for intelligence and security affairs between the Political Department of the Jewish Agency and the intelligence arms of the Royal Air Force and the C.I.D. Zaslany sifted through intelligence collected by Jewish-controlled field operatives and forwarded it to the British military. He was a frequent visitor at the headquarters of British intelligence and the army, the police and C.I.D. and he also travelled to Damascus to liaise with the Arab opposition's peace bands and with the British Consul in Iraq. Colonel Frederick Kisch, a British army officer and Zionist leader, was appointed chief liaison officer between the British army and the Jewish Agency Executive with Zaslany as his deputy. Zaslany also worked as interpreter for Patrick Domville, head of RAF Intelligence in Palestine (who was described by Haganah leader Dov Hos as the \"best Zionist informer on the English\"), until the latter was posted to Iraq in 1938, and through him became acquainted with many of the British intelligence officers.\n\nIn 1937 the Jewish Agency's intelligence groups were responsible for bugging the Peel Commission hearings in Palestine. Eventually, the Arab Revolt convinced the Agency that a central intelligence service was required and this led to the formation of a counter-intelligence agency known as the \"Ran\" (headed by Yehuda Arazi, who also helped to smuggle rifles, machine guns and ammunition from Poland to Palestine) and thereafter in 1940 to the creation of SHAI, the forerunner of Mossad.\n\nThe \"Haganah\" (Hebrew for \"defence\"), a Jewish paramilitary organisation, actively supported British efforts to suppress the uprising, which reached 10,000 Arab fighters at their peak during the summer and fall of 1938. Although the British administration did not officially recognise the \"Haganah\", the British security forces cooperated with it by forming the Jewish Settlement Police, Jewish Supernumerary Police, and Special Night Squads. The Special Night Squads engaged in activities described by colonial administrator Sir Hugh Foot, as 'extreme and cruel' involving torture, whipping, abuse and execution of Arabs.\n\nThe British authorities maintained, financed and armed the Jewish police from this point onward until the end of the Mandate, and by the end of September 1939 around 20,000 Jewish policeman, supernumeraries and settlement guards had been authorised to carry arms by the government, which also distributed weapons to outlying Jewish settlements, and allowed the Haganah to acquire arms. Independently of the British, \"Ta'as\", the Haganah's clandestine munitions industry, developed an 81-mm mortar and manufactured mines and grenades, 17,500 of the latter being produced for use during the revolt.\n\nIn June 1937, the British imposed the death penalty for unauthorised possession of weapons, ammunition, and explosives, but since many Jews had permission to carry weapons and store ammunition for defence this order was directed primarily against Palestinian Arabs and most of the 112 executed in Acre Prison were hanged for illegal possession of arms.\n\nIn principle all of the joint units functioned as part of the British administration, but in practice they were under the command of the Jewish Agency and \"intended to form the backbone of a Jewish military force set up under British sponsorship in preparation for the inevitable clash with the Arabs.\" The Agency and the Mandate authorities shared the costs of the new units equally. The administration also provided security services to Jewish commercial concerns at cost.\n\nJewish and British officials worked together to co-ordinate manhunts and collective actions against villages and also discussed the imposition of penalties and sentences. Overall, the Jewish Agency was successful in making \"the point that the Zionist movement and the British Empire were standing shoulder to shoulder against a common enemy, in a war in which they had common goals.\"\n\nThe rebellion also inspired the Jewish Agency to expand the intelligence-gathering of its Political Department and especially of its Arab Division, with the focus changing from political to military intelligence. The Arab Division set up a network of Jewish controllers and Arab agents around the country. Some of the intelligence gathered was shared with the British administration, the exchange of information sometimes being conducted by Moshe Shertok, then head of the Jewish Agency, directly with the high commissioner himself. Shertok also advised the administration on political affairs, on one occasion convincing the high commissioner not to arrest Professor Joseph Klausner, a Revisionist Maximalist activist who had played a key role in the riots of 1929, because of the likely negative consequences.\n\n† Ta'as and Rekhesh were developed and expanded during the Arab Revolt but already existed before 1936 and of course the Haganah had been in operation from the earliest days of the Mandate.\n\nThere was no single body within the Jewish settlement capable of co-ordinating intelligence gathering before 1939. Until then there were four separate organisations without any regular or formal liaison. These were an underground militia, forerunner of the first official information service, \"Sherut Yediot\" (Shai); the \"Arab Platoon\" of the Palmach, which was staffed by Jews who were Arab-speaking and Arab-looking; \"Rekhesh\", the arms procurement service, which had its own intelligence gathering capabilities, and likewise the \"Mossad LeAliyah Bet\", the illegal immigration service. In mid-1939 the effort to co-ordinate the activities of these groups was led by Shaul Avigur and Moshe Shertok.\n\nIn 1931, a Revisionist underground splinter group broke off from Haganah, calling itself the \"Irgun\" organisation (or \"Etzel\"). The organisation took its orders from Revisionist leader Ze'ev Jabotinsky who was at odds with the dominant Labour Zionist movement led by David Ben-Gurion. The rift between the two Zionist movements further deteriorated in 1933 when two Revisionists were blamed for the murder of Haim Arlosoroff, who had negotiated the Haavara Agreement between the Jewish Agency and Nazi Germany. The agreement brought 52,000 German Jews to Palestine between 1933 and 1939, and generated $30,000,000 for the then almost bankrupt Jewish Agency, but in addition to the difficulties with the Revisionists, who advocated a boycott of Germany, it caused the Yishuv to be isolated from the rest of world Jewry.\n\nUltimately, however, the events of the Arab Revolt blurred the differences between the gradualist approach of Ben-Gurion and the Maximalist Iron Wall approach of Jabotinsky and turned militarist patriotism into a bipartisan philosophy. Indeed, Ben-Gurion's own Special Operations Squads conducted a punitive operation in the Arab village of Lubya firing weapons into a room through a window killing two men and one woman and injuring three people, including two children.\n\nFrom October 1937 the Irgun instituted a wave of bombings against Arab crowds and buses. For the first time in the conflict massive bombs were placed in crowded Arab public places, killing and maiming dozens. These attacks substantially increased Arab casualties and sowed terror among the population. The first attack was on 11 November 1937, killing two Arabs at the bus depot near Jaffa Street in Jerusalem and then on 14 November, a day later commemorated as the \"Day of the Breaking of the \"Havlagah\" (restraint),\" Arabs were killed in simultaneous attacks around Palestine. More deadly attacks followed: on 6 July 1938 21 Arabs were killed and 52 wounded by a bomb in a Haifa market; on 25 July a second market bomb in Haifa killed at least 39 Arabs and injured 70; a bomb in Jaffa's vegetable market on 26 August killed 24 Arabs and wounded 39. The attacks were condemned by the Jewish Agency.\n\nThe Arab leader Mohammad Amin al-Husayni and his associates also received funding from Fascist Italy during the revolt as the Italians were in dispute with the United Kingdom over Abyssinia and wished not only to disrupt the British rear but also to extend Italian influence in the region. Files seized at the German High Command in Flansburg reveal that the Arab riots \"only through funds made available by Germany to the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem was it possible to carry out the revolt in Palestine.\"\n\nThe \"peace bands\" (\"fasa'il al-salam\") or \"Nashashibi units\" were made up of disaffected Arab peasants recruited by the British administration and the Nashashibis in late 1938 to battle against Arab rebels during the revolt. Despite their peasant origins the bands were representative mainly of the interests of landlords and rural notables. Some peace bands also sprang up in the Nablus area, on Mount Carmel (a stronghold of the Druze who largely opposed the rebellion after 1937), and around Nazareth without connection to the Nashashibi-Husayni power struggle.\n\nFrom December 1937 the main opposition figures among the Arabs approached the Jewish Agency for funding and assistance, motivated by the assassination campaign pursued by the rebels at the behest of the Husseini leadership. In October 1937, shortly after Mohammad Amin al-Husayni, the leader of the Arab Higher Committee, had fled from Palestine to escape British retribution, Raghib al-Nashashibi had written to Moshe Shertok stating his full willingness to co-operate with the Jewish Agency and to agree with whatever policy it proposed. From early in 1938 the Nashashibis received funding specifically to conduct anti-rebel operations, with Raghib al-Nashashibi himself receiving £5,000. The British also supplied funding to the peace bands and sometimes directed their operations.\n\nFakhri Nashashibi was particularly successful in recruiting peace bands in the Hebron hills, on one occasion in December 1938 gathering 3,000 villagers for a rally in Yatta, also attended by the British military commander of the Jerusalem District General Richard O'Connor.\n\nJust two months earlier, on 15 October 1938, rebels had seized the Old City and barricaded the gates. O'Connor had planned the operation by which men of the Coldstream Guards, Royal Northumberland Fusiliers and Black Watch recaptured the Old City, killing 19 rebels. He was later to win fame as the field commander for Operation \"Compass\" in World War II, in which his forces completely destroyed a much larger Italian army—a victory which nearly drove the Axis from Africa, and in turn, led Adolf Hitler to send the German Africa Corps under Erwin Rommel to try to reverse the situation.\n\nTowards the end of the revolt in May 1939 the authorities dissolved the peace bands and confiscated their arms. However, because members of the bands had become tainted in the eyes of the Palestinian Arabs, and some were under sentence of death, they had little choice but to continue the battle against the national movement's leadership, which they did with the continuing help of the Zionist movement.\n\nAt least 282 rebel leaders took part in the Arab Revolt, including four Christians. Rebel forces consisted of loosely organized bands known as \"fasa'il\" (sing: \"fasil\"). The leader of a \"fasil\" was known as a \"qa'id al-fasil\" (pl. \"quwwa'id al-fasa'il\"), which means \"band commander\". The Jewish press often referred to them as \"brigands\", while the British authorities and media called them \"bandits\", \"terrorists\", \"rebels\" or \"insurgents\", but never \"nationalists\". \"Ursabat\" (meaning \"gangs\") was another Arabic term used for the rebels, and it spawned the British soldiers' nickname for all rebels, which was \"Oozlebart\".\n\nAccording to historian Simon Anglim, the rebel groups were divided into general categories: \"mujahadeen\" and \"fedayeen\". The former were guerrillas who engaged in armed confrontations, while the latter committed acts of sabotage. According to later accounts of some surviving rebel leaders from the Galilee, the \"mujahideen\" maintained little coordination with the nominal hierarchy of the revolt. Most ambushes were the result of a local initiative undertaken by a \"qa'id\" or a group of \"quwwa'id\" from the same area.\n\nAbdul Khallik was an effective peasant leader appointed by Fawzi al-Qawuqji who caused great damage and loss of life in the Nazareth District and was thus a significant adversary of the Mandate and Jewish settlement authorities. He was trapped by British troops in a major engagement on 2 October 1938 and was killed whilst trying to lead his men to safety. Abu Ibrahim al-Kabir was the main Qassamite rebel leader in the Upper Galilee and was the only active rebel leader on the ground who was a member of the Damascus-based Central Committee of National Jihad. Abdallah al-Asbah was a prominent commander active in the Safad region of northeastern Galilee. He was killed by British forces who besieged him and his comrades near the border with Lebanon in early 1937.\n\nAbd al-Rahim al-Hajj Muhammad from the Tulkarm area was a deeply religious, intellectual man and as a fervent anti-Zionist, he was deeply committed to the revolt. He was regarded second to Qawukji in terms of leadership ability and maintained his independence from the exiled rebel leadership in Damascus. He personally led his \"fasa'il\" and carried out nighttime attacks against British targets in the revolt's early stage in 1936. When the revolt was renewed in April 1937, he established a more organised command hierarchy consisting of four main brigades who operated in the north-central highlands (Tulkarm-Nablus-Jenin area). He competed for the position of General Commander of the Revolt with Aref Abdul Razzik, and the two served the post in rotation from September 1938 to February 1939, when al-Hajj Muhammad was confirmed as the sole General Commander.\n\nAl-Hajj Muhammad refused to carry out political assassinations at the behest of political factions, including al-Husayni, once stating \"I don't work for Husayniya ('Husanyni-ism'), but for wataniya ('nationalism').\" He is still known by Palestinians as a hero and martyr and is regarded as a metonym \"for a national movement that was popular, honourable, religious, and lofty in its aims and actions.\" He was shot dead in a firefight with British forces outside the village of Sanur on 27 March 1939, after Farid Irsheid's peace band informed the authorities of his location.\n\nYusuf Abu Durra, a Qassamite leader in the Jenin area, was born in Silat al-Harithiya and before becoming a rebel worked as a Gazoz vendor. He was said to be a narrow-minded man who thrived on extortion and cruelty and thus became greatly feared. Yusuf Hamdan was Durra's more respected lieutenant and later a leader of his own unit; he was killed by an army patrol in 1939 and buried in al-Lajjun. Durra himself was apprehended by the Arab Legion in Transjordan on 25 July 1939 and subsequently hanged.\n\nFakhri Abdul Hadi of Arrabah worked closely with Fawzi al-Qawukji in 1936, but later defected to the British authorities. He bargained for a pardon by offering to collaborate with the British on countering rebel propaganda. Once on the payroll of the British consul in Damascus, Gilbert Mackereth, he carried out many attacks against the rebels in 1938–1939 as leader of his own \"peace band\".\nAref Abdul Razzik of Tayibe was responsible for the area south of Tulkarm and was known for evading capture whilst being pursued by the security forces. He signed his bulletins as 'The Ghost of Sheikh Qassam'. Razzik assumed a place in British army folklore and the troops sang a song about him. Razzik was capable and daring and gained a reputation as one of the army's problem heroes.\n\nIssa Battat was a peasant leader in the southern hills below Jerusalem who caused enormous damage to security patrols in his area. He was killed by a patrol of armed police in a battle near Hebron in 1937.\n\nIn the first phase of the revolt, around 300 volunteers, mostly veterans of the Ottoman Army and/or rebels from the Great Syrian Revolt (1925–27), deployed in northern Palestine. Their overall commander was Fawzi al-Qawuqji and his deputies were Said al-As and Muhammad al-Ashmar. Qawuqji also led the volunteer force's Iraqi and Transjordanian battalions, and al-Ashmar was commander of the Syrian battalion, which largely consisted of volunteers from Damascus's al-Midan Quarter, Hama and Homs. The Druze ex-Ottoman officer, Hamad Sa'ab, commanded the Lebanese battalion.\n\nDespite the intervention of up to 50,000 British troops and 15,000 Haganah men, the uprising continued for over three years. By the time it concluded in September 1939, more than 5,000 Arabs, over 300 Jews, and 262 Britons had been killed and at least 15,000 Arabs were wounded.\n\nIn the overall context of the Jewish settlement's development in the 1930s the physical losses endured during the revolt were relatively insignificant. Although hundreds were killed and property was damaged no Jewish settlement was captured or destroyed and several dozen new ones were established. Over 50,000 new Jewish immigrants arrived in Palestine. In 1936 Jews made up about one-third of the population.\n\nThe hostilities contributed to further disengagement of the Jewish and Arab economies in Palestine, which were intertwined to some extent until that time. Development of the economy and infrastructure accelerated. For example, whereas the Jewish city of Tel Aviv relied on the nearby Arab seaport of Jaffa, hostilities dictated the construction of a separate Jewish-run seaport for Tel Aviv, inspiring the delighted Ben-Gurion to note in his diary \"we ought to reward the Arabs for giving us the impetus for this great creation.\" Metal works were established to produce armoured sheeting for vehicles and a rudimentary arms industry was founded. The settlement's transportation capabilities were enhanced and Jewish unemployment was relieved owing to the employment of police officers, and replacement of striking Arab labourers, employees, craftsman and farmers by Jewish workers. Most of the important industries in Palestine were owned by Jews and in trade and the banking sector they were much better placed than the Arabs.\n\nAs a result of collaboration with the British colonial authorities and security forces many thousands of young men had their first experience of military training, which Moshe Shertok and Haganah leader Eliyahu Golomb cited as one of the fruits of the Haganah's policy of havlagah (restraint).\n\nAlthough the Jewish settlement in Palestine was dismayed by the publication of the 1939 White Paper restricting Jewish immigration, David Ben-Gurion remained undeterred, believing that the policy would not be implemented, and in fact Neville Chamberlain had told him that the policy would last at the very most only for the duration of the war. In the event the White Paper quotas were exhausted only in December 1944, over five and a half years later, and in the same period the United Kingdom absorbed 50,000 Jewish refugees and the British Commonwealth (Australia, Canada and South Africa) took many thousands more. During the War over 30,000 Jews joined the British forces and even the Irgun ceased operations against the British until 1944.\n\nThe revolt weakened the military strength of Palestinian Arabs in advance of their ultimate confrontation with the Jewish settlement in the 1947–48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine and was thus counterproductive. During the uprising, British authorities attempted to confiscate all weapons from the Arab population. This, and the destruction of the main Arab political leadership in the revolt, greatly hindered their military efforts in the 1948 Palestine war, where imbalances between the Jewish and Arab economic performance, social cohesion, political organisation and military capability became apparent.\n\nThe Mufti, Hajj Amin al-Husseini and his supporters directed a Jihad against any person who did not obey the Mufti. Their national struggle was a religious holy war, and the incarnation of both the Palestinian Arab nation and Islam was Hajj Amin al-Husseini. Anyone who rejected his leadership was a heretic and his life was forfeit. After the Peel report publication, the murders of Arabs leaders who opposed the Mufti were accelerated. Pressed by the assassination campaign pursued by the rebels at the behest of the Husseini leadership, the opposition had a security cooperation with the Jews. The flight of wealthy Arabs, which occurred during the revolt, was also replicated in 1947–49.\nThousands of Palestinian houses were destroyed, and massive financial costs were incurred because of the general strike and the devastation of fields, crops and orchards. The economic boycott further damaged the fragile Palestinian Arab economy through loss of sales and goods and increased unemployment.\n\nClearly, the revolt did not achieve its goals, although it is \"credited with signifying the birth of the Arab Palestinian identity.\" It is generally credited with forcing the issuance of the White Paper of 1939 in which Britain retreated from the partition arrangements proposed by the Peel Commission in favour of the creation of a binational state within ten years, although The League of Nations commission held that the White Paper was in conflict with the terms of the Mandate as put forth in the past. The White Paper of 1939 was regarded by many as incompatible with the commitment to a Jewish National Home in Palestine, as proclaimed in the 1917 Balfour Declaration. Al-Husseini rejected the new policy, although it seems that the ordinary Palestinian Arab accepted the White Paper of 1939. His biographer, Philip Mattar wrote that in that case, the Mufti preferred his personal interests and the ideology rather than the practical considerations.\n\nAs the inevitable war with Germany approached, British policy makers concluded that although they could rely on the support of the Jewish population in Palestine, who had no alternative but to support Britain, the support of Arab governments and populations in an area of great strategic importance for the British Empire was not assured. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain concluded \"if we must offend one side, let us offend the Jews rather than the Arabs.\"\n\nIn February 1939 Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs Malcolm MacDonald called together a conference of Arab and Zionist leaders on the future of Palestine at St. James's Palace in London but the discussions ended without agreement on 27 March. The government's new policy as published in White Paper of 17 May had been determined already and despite Jewish protests and Irgun attacks the British remained resolute.\n\nThere was a growing feeling among British officials that there was nothing left for them to do in Palestine.\nPerhaps the ultimate achievement of the Arab Revolt was to make the British sick of Palestine. Major-General Bernard \"Monty\" Montgomery concluded, \"the Jew murders the Arab and the Arab murders the Jew. This is what is going on in Palestine now. And it will go on for the next 50 years in all probability.\"\n\nThe 1936–39 Arab Revolt has been and still is marginalized in both Western and Israeli historiography on Palestine, and even progressive Western scholars have little to say about the anti-colonial struggle of the Palestinian Arab rebels against the British Empire. According to Swedenberg's analysis, for instance, the Zionist version of Israeli history acknowledges only one authentic national movement: the struggle for Jewish self-determination that resulted in the Israeli Declaration of Independence in May 1948. Swedenberg writes that the Zionist narrative has no room for an anticolonial and anti-British Palestinian national revolt. Zionists often describe the revolt as a series of \"events\" (Hebrew מאורעות תרצ\"ו-תרצ\"ט) \"riots\", or \"happenings\".\n\nThe appropriate description was debated by Jewish Agency officials, who were keen not to give a negative impression of Palestine to prospective immigrants. In private, however, David Ben-Gurion was unequivocal: the Arabs, he said, were \"fighting dispossession ... The fear is not of losing land, but of losing the homeland of the Arab people, which others want to turn into the homeland of the Jewish people.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38291146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38291146", "title": "1991 in philosophy", "text": "1991 in philosophy\n\n1991 in philosophy\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42294517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42294517", "title": "Anatoly Gromyko", "text": "Anatoly Gromyko\n\nAnatoly Andreyevich Gromyko (; 15 April 1932 – 25 September 2017) was a Soviet and Russian scientist and diplomat. He specialized in American and African studies as well as international relations, and was a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and the .\n\nGromyko was born in Barysaw, Soviet Union, in 1932, and between 1939 and 1948 lived in the United States, where his father Andrei Gromyko worked as the Soviet ambassador and representative in the United Nations. In 1954 he graduated from the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, and between 1961 and 1965 worked at the Soviet Embassy to the United Kingdom. After that he took leading positions at the Institute for African Studies and Institute for US and Canadian Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences. He then returned to diplomacy and acted as the Soviet deputy ambassador in the United States (1973–1974) and East Germany (1974–1975). Between 1976 and 1991 he headed the Institute for African Studies, where he continued working until 2010. From 2010 on he lectured at the Institute of International Security and at the Moscow State University. In 1981 he was elected to the Russian Academy of Sciences where he curated African studies. \n\nGromyko co-authored more than 30 books and more than 300 journal articles. He was awarded the Order of the October Revolution, Order of Friendship of Peoples and USSR State Prize (1980).\n\nGromyko was married twice, second time to Valentina Olegovna Gromyko. He has two sons from different marriages, Igor (born 1954) and Aleksei (born 1969), as well as a daughter, Anna. Igor is a diplomat, whereas Aleksei is a political scientist.\n\n"}
{"id": "54708098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54708098", "title": "Antonio Pérez de Olaguer", "text": "Antonio Pérez de Olaguer\n\nAntonio María Pérez de Olaguer Feliu (1907–1968) was a Spanish writer and a Carlist militant. As a man of letters he was recognized by his contemporaries for travel literature, novel and drama, gaining much popularity in the 1940s and 1950s. Today he is considered mostly a typical representative of early Francoist culture and his works are denied major value. As a Carlist he remained in the back row, though enjoyed enormous prestige among the Catalan rank and file. For decades he worked to bridge the gap between two groups of Catalan Carlists, the Javieristas and the Sivattistas.\n\nAntonio Pérez de Olaguer descended from distinguished families both along the paternal and the maternal line. The ancestors of his father originated from Andalusia; his grandfather, Manuel Pérez Marqueti (1829-1889), came from Cádiz. A physician serving in the navy, in the mid-19th century he engaged in trade with the Philippines, then managed state contracts in the islands, and eventually developed own retail and real estate business in Manila. He became one of the Philippine tycoons and left a fortune. The business was inherited by his sons: Antonio’s father (1868–1936) and Rafael, who enlarged it further on managing two family-owned companies, R. Pérez Samanillo y Cía and Pérez Samanillo Hermanos. They contributed to urbanization of Manila; the brothers owned much of the Paco district, dried the area and commenced residential development; a street in the city still bears their name. One of few art-decó buildings in Manila used to be their department store.\n\nAntonio’s maternal ascendants were related to overseas; his great-great-grandfather served as , his son and Antonio’s great-grandfather opted for Argentine nationality; his son and Antonio’s grandfather José María Olaguer Feliu Dubonet (1827-1881) was born and lived in the Philippines. His son and Antonio’s maternal uncle general José Olaguer Feliú Ramirez became the minister of war in 1922 and later remained active as a primoderiverista politician. His daughter and Antonio’s mother, Francisca de Olaguer Feliú Ramirez (1865–1908), also born and raised in the Philippines, married Luis Pérez; the couple settled in Manila.\n\nThe collapse of Spanish rule in 1898 did not affected the Pérez business much. However, Luis started to invest in Spain, mostly in Catalonia. In the early 20th century the family permanently settled in a , managing their overseas economy remotely. They had 9 children, some of them born in the Philippines; Antonio was the youngest one. There is almost no information on his childhood and early teenage years, except that he was raised in Barcelona and very early orphaned by his mother. As in 1911 his father remarried with Asunción Lladó (1884-1963), Antonio was brought up by his step-mother. He studied commerce in an unidentified Jesuit institution; and travelled heavily, accompanying his father during voyages to the Philippines. Later he inherited at least part of the overseas business.\n\nIn the late 1920s or very early 1930s Antonio married Sara Moreno Calvo y Ortega (1905-1968). She was the daughter of an Andalusian winegrower and Liberal cacique Guillermo Moreno Calvo; he passed into history when later sub-secretary of the Lerroux cabinet, becoming the key protagonist of the 1935 . The couple settled at calle Muntaner in Barcelona; they had 5 children, all of them sons and all cultivating literary interest of their father in editorial, publishing, theatrical and librarian fields. The best-known of them, , became an iconic personality of the Catalan theatre and drama. Antonio lived to see 17 grandchildren.\n\nPérez de Olaguer was a prolific writer and claimed fathering some 50 books. The genre which prevails is non-fiction; it may be subdivided into 4 sub-genres. Pérez de Olaguer commenced literary career in 1926 with travel literature, followed – as he travelled around the world 6 times – with subsequent volumes in 1929, 1934, 1941 and 1944; the last one is an account of truly amazing tour around the world in the midst of the Second World War. Historiography is about three volumes featuring Catholic personalities from the recent past (1933-1940) and a book on his own father (1967). Four volumes of essays anchored in daily life (1950-1953) were written \"to cheer up in the dark times\". However, Pérez de Olaguer became best known for his works intended to document Republican horror and Nationalist heroism during the Spanish Civil War. He issued 3 volumes discussing Republican atrocities and 2 volumes honoring the Carlist volunteers (1937-1939). The work falling into the same testimonial literature which gained him international recognition was a 1947 work documenting the Japanese barbarity in the Philippines.\n\nAnother genre favored by Pérez de Olaguer was novels. They form two distinctly different groups. Four works are marked by grotesque style; except one case the plot is set in contemporary times and the protagonists are involved in twisted intrigues which seem to underline absurdities of daily life, all told in a farcical, optimistic, amusing manner. In terms of content they are benevolent reflections on human confused nature. Entirely different are three novels written during the Civil War. Light message gave way to moralizing objectives related to promotion of the Nationalist cause and grotesque gave way to the horror of wartime setting; what remained was author’s optimism and a penchant for a plot anchored in relations between males and females.\n\nIn terms of drama Pérez de Olaguer underwent internship period in the early 1930s; working for he co-adapted novels for stage performance, tasked with providing intriguing episodic dramas which merged high action with musical interludes. Likewise he adapted his own novel into a 3-act play (1933), which was actually staged. His greatest success as a playwright came with \"Más leal que galante\" (1935), written together with . Set in the Third Carlist War and written in a light verse, the comedy featured a complex romance intrigue with clear Carlist message in the background; its popularity stemmed from smart and pacy intrigue, well-written rhymed dialogues and a blend of romantic and patriotic features. The play was performed countlessly especially in the Nationalist zone and later in the Francoist Spain; there were great Spanish actors like starring and great political personalities like Queipo de Llano attending. Another comedy followed in 1935; it failed to repeat the success, though it was later performed in the Philippines and attended by president Quirino. In the 1950s Pérez de Olaguer kept adapting novels for Rambal and wrote libretto for a zarzuela. Only one of his own late plays was performed commercially; others were one-act dramas performed at amateur or religious stages.\n\nFor some 35 years Pérez de Olaguer remained active in a broadly defined culture; perhaps his most important role was this of a publisher, who animated a number of Catholic cultural initiatives. The key one was \"La Familia\", a Barcelona-based review set up by his father in 1908 and following some periods of lesser activity still issued in the early 1930s. It was at this time that the young Antonio assumed management of the weekly; following the Civil War \"La Familia\", already as his own property, was re-launched and enjoyed its heyday in the 1950s. Pérez de Olaguer kept running the review as its director until the late 1960s; at some stage he tried to build a satellite infrastructure, launching periodical veladas literarias. Until his death \"La Familia\" was one of key platforms of popular Catholic culture in Catalonia, though its importance declined as secularization and consumer lifestyles advanced. Other of Pérez de Olaguer’s editorial activities were less successful: Traditionalist weekly \"Alta Veu\" and humorous reviews \"Don Fantasma\" and \"Guirigay\", launched in the mid-1930s, proved short-lived, though \"Momento\" kept appearing in 1951-1954.\n\nPérez de Olaguer himself started contributing to press titles in 1930. He soon commenced co-operation with \"La Vanguardia\" and by the board was dubbed \"nuestro collaborador\". Starting 1933 he kept supplying pieces to established Barcelona reviews \"La Cruz\" and especially to \"\" though also to minor titles. Initially his contributions were related to his experience as a traveler and later focused also on theatre; starting 1933 they were increasingly flavored with Catholic and Traditionalist outlook. This thread climaxed during the Civil War; once Pérez de Olaguer resumed writing in October 1936 his light and humorous style gave way to serious if not pathetic tone. He kept publishing especially in \"\" and a Carlist infantile weekly \"\"; after 1937 his activity decreased. Following the war Pérez de Olaguer contributed to Enciclopedia universal ilustrada europeo-americana, and to Catholic reviews; the popular ones were intended for \"La Familia\", more sophisticated ones were published in \"Cristiandad\"; his credo was laid out in a 1957 essay \"Ante la supuesta inexistencia del escritor católico\".\n\nIn the Francoist era Pérez de Olaguer remained engaged in numerous Catalan Catholic cultural initiatives, those flavored by Traditionalism rather than those advancing a Christian-Democratic outlook. He was the moving spirit behind 1954-co-founded Asociación de San Francisco de Sales, acted in Amigos de Sagrada Familia and Congregaciones Marianas, lectured at Schola Cordis Iesu and galvanized Patronato O.F.O.R.S. In terms of literature he presided over Agrupación Literaria Ibero-Americana; in terms of theatre headed Fomento del Espectáculo Selecto y del Teatro Asociación, contributed to Congreso Regional de Teatro de Aficionados and the . In terms of charity he animated Asociación de Amigos de San Lázaro and especially supported Leprocomio de Fontillas, apart from countless other involvements in educational or religious events.\n\nPérez de Olaguer’s ancestors lived mostly overseas and seemed detached from daily Spanish politics; the only information on their preferences available is that his father was a fervent Catholic. The young Antonio initially did not reveal any penchant; it is only in the early 1930s that his writings got saturated with Traditionalism. Exact mechanism of his access to Carlism is not known, yet in 1933 it seemed apparent, perhaps confirmed in 1934. His writings and publications aside there is no confirmation of his engagement in Carlist structures. It is not clear whether Antonio joined requeté military gear-up and whether on July 19 he engaged in the coup. In the mayhem that followed he left Barcelona for Genoa. He entered the Nationalist zone some time before November 1936 and offered his services to Junta Nacional Carlista de Guerra; Pérez de Olaguer was seconded to its Prensa y Propaganda section, touring the area controlled and gathering information on the fallen requetés. He also kept advancing the Carlist cause in numerous books and press publications. His position versus the and buildup of the Francoist regime is not clear; after 1937 his activity as author declined sharply, yet in 1939 Franco watched the victory parade in Barcelona from the balcony of Casa Pérez Samanillo.\n\nPérez de Olaguer spent part of the early 1940s overseas and there is no information on his Carlist activities, except hosting Fal Conde during the 1942 Montserrat festivities. During growing bewilderment of Carlism Pérez de Olaguer did not engage in the daily party business yet due to his standing as a writer, though also thanks to his easy-going, serene, and modest conduct he enjoyed great prestige among the Catalan party rank and file. He remained loyal to leadership of Fal and to sovereignty of Don Javier; the regent appreciated him personally. Taking advantage of his position in the mid-1940s Pérez de Olaguer tried to mediate between two increasingly hostile fractions of Catalan Carlists: cautious supporters of Fal Conde, who stuck to the regentialist solution, and activist supporters of regional leader Maurici de Sivatte, who demanded that Don Javier openly challenges Franco and declares his own reign. In 1947 he addressed the claimant with a letter, asking to take action and prevent forthcoming breakup. Himself he tended to side with the Sivattistas, noting that Spain needed \"legitimate chief of state\". Don Javier took notice but did not take action and the conflict escalated. In early 1949 Fal travelled to Barcelona seeking last-minute reconciliation, but Pérez de Olaguer informed him that \"por aquel camino el carlismo no podía continuar\". Few months later in another letter he advocated more open anti-Francoist stand and noted that caudillo’s fate might be this of Hitler and Mussolini. However, Fal’s strategy prevailed and Sivatte was dismissed from the Catalan jefatura.\n\nPérez de Olaguer remained embittered about Sivatte’s dismissal and protested to Fal; however, while Sivatte soon distanced himself from the party, for Pérez de Olaguer obedience towards Don Javier remained an untouchable principle. The Catalan Carlists held him in high esteem and suggested that it is Pérez de Olaguer who becomes the regional jefe; however, despite insistence on part of the regent Pérez declined the offer, pledging instead that he would work to unite all Catalan Carlists. Indeed, he did, and the early 1950s are marked by his efforts to this end. Unwavering in his loyalty to Don Javier he kept challenging the regency formula. The campaign produced success in 1953; Don Javier issued a vague document, hailed by Consejo de as claim of monarchic rights; their communiqué was co-signed by Pérez de Olaguer. The move triggered what looked like rapprochement between Javieristas and Sivattistas; it climaxed when two groups, since 1949 staging 2 separate Montserrat feasts, agreed to have one, very much the result of Pérez de Olaguer’s conciliatory work.\n\nIn 1956 Pérez de Olaguer together with Sivatte met Don Javier in Perpignan to discuss further alignment and prevent would-be dynastic accord with Don Juan; the Carlist king signed appropriate statement but insisted it is kept private. The document was to be stored by Sivatte but Don Javier soon developed second thoughts and demanded it is to be in custody of Pérez de Olaguer, the king’s trusted man in Catalonia. To his great surprise, Sivatte made the Perpignan pledge public during the meeting of Carlist executive in Estella, which heavily damaged Don Javier’s relations with Pérez de Olaguer. However, when in 1957 Sivatte launched an openly rebellious Carlist grouping known as RENACE Pérez de Olaguer did not join, in the late 1950s limiting himself to maintaining friendly relations with Sivatte and his collaborators, like Carles Feliu de Travy. His general stand seemed constant; basking in prestige among Catalan Carlists he did not engage in any party activity yet did engage in common, mostly religion-flavored initiatives.\n\nPérez de Olaguer avoided entanglements in Francoist structures though he used to meet high regional officials of the regime, be it provincial , or alcalde. The purpose of these meetings is not clear; it seems he represented various non-political institutions seeking assistance. However, in the early 1960s Pérez de Olaguer started to demonstrate that also politically he sort of acknowledged the stability of Francoist setting. During local elections of 1963 he lent his support to one Carlist candidate and in the Cortes elections of 1967 to another. Following 30 years of the regime his trust in instauration of the Traditionalist monarchy decayed; in a 1966 letter to Don Javier he diagnosed that \"el Carlismo, más dividido que nunca, más lleno de rencor que en otras ocasiones, languidece, y por paradoja sólo diríase alimentado, vivificado, por los antiguos partidarios de Sivatte\". He repaired relations with the house of Borbón-Parma and hosted Don Carlos Hugo and his wife Irene in his house during their mid-1960s interview with Sivatte; it is not clear whether he shared Sivatte’s damning opinion about the prince.\n\nPérez de Olaguer’s early attempts were acknowledged with patronizing tone; critics admitted potential, unbiased fresh look and writing ease yet stayed cautious and some alluded to a premature debut, though Jacinto Benavente approvingly prologued his 1934 volume. Pérez de Olaguer gained some attention due to his grotesque novels and plays; commended for gracious style, original humor and optimistic humanism they were placed in the farcical tradition of Rabelais or Molière. In the mid-1930s his works started to collect praise in conservative realm, which noted Christian spirit and Traditionalist vision. \"Más leal que galante\" earned Pérez de Olaguer great popularity among the Carlists; in 1935 he was already invited as a literary arbiter and received homages. During the Civil War and early Francoism Pérez de Olaguer emerged among more popular writers; some of his works were re-printed 4 times, \"Más leal\" was continuously staged commercially and occasionally he kept attending literary juries. He remained an author catering to popular taste and was rewarded by the public rather than by critics and awards. Starting mid-1950s his literary production declined as he focused on Catholic Barcelona reviews instead. Since their circulation remains unknown also their impact remains to be gauged, yet it seems that \"La Familia\" counted among key platforms of popular Catalan Catholicism.\n\nAfter his death Pérez de Olaguer went into oblivion; none of his works has been re-published. In the post-Francoist era the skyrocketing popularity of Gonzalo Pérez de Olaguer – never referred to as the son of Antonio – has entirely eclipsed the memory of his father. Pérez de Olaguer has not made it to history of the Spanish literature and is disregarded not only in synthetic accounts but also ignored or barely mentioned in detailed studies. If referred, he merits scholarly attention as a representative of cultural outlook of early Francoism rather than as an individual. Scholars quote his name when presenting typical features, clichés and traits of Francoist culture, and if admitted importance it is only because some counted him among key contributors to or \"más destacados cultivadores\" of most characteristic cultural features in the nationalist zone. The ones listed are: lambasting the Republicans as foreign-inspired anti-Spain, depicting them as bestial brutes, disseminating the vision of judeo-masonic plot, idealizing own heroic men, constructing the Cruzada logic, building a myth of Traditionalist Navarre, bending historical truth to serve own political preferences and cultivating sex stereotypes. His individual literary contribution is dismissed as \"cuentos escritos en un tono didáctico-moralizante\".\n\nIn the Carlist realm Pérez de Olaguer is occasionally recorded on private blogs and official Comunión Tradicionalista sites. His testimonial literature on Republican terror was widely quoted during the Francoist era. As a documentary it has not been proven incorrect until today; at times it remains quoted by scholars though they usually stigmatize Pérez de Olaguer as a Nationalist partisan, a source which \"does not inspire confidence\" or \"ideologically committed lay Catholic\". Internationally he was acknowledged mostly thanks to work on Japanese atrocities in the Philippines and until today the volume is considered \"deeply and broadly researched platform\" that every scholarly investigation of the issue must commence with.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6331094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6331094", "title": "Atlantic World", "text": "Atlantic World\n\nThe Atlantic World is the history of the interactions among the peoples and empires bordering the Atlantic Ocean rim from the beginning of the Age of Discovery to the early 21st century.\nAtlantic history is split between three different contexts. transatlantic history, meaning the international history of the atlantic world, circus-atlantic history meaning the transnational history of the atlantic world, and cis-atlantic history within an atlantic context.\nThe Atlantic slave trade continued into the 19th century, but the international trade was largely outlawed in 1807 by Britain. Slavery ended in 1865 in the United States and in the 1880s in Brazil (1888) and Cuba (1886). In many ways the history of the \"Atlantic world\" culminates in the \"Atlantic Revolutions\" of the late 18th century and early 19th century.\n\nThe historiography of the Atlantic World, known as Atlantic history, has grown enormously since the 1990s.\n\nThe Atlantic World comprises the histories of Europe, Africa, and the Americas. Travel over land was difficult and expensive, so settlements were made along the coast, especially where rivers allowed small boats to travel inland. Distant settlements were linked by elaborate sea-based trading networks. Since the easiest and cheapest way of long-distance travel was by sea, international trading networks emerged in the Atlantic world, with major hubs at London, Amsterdam, Boston, and Havana. Time was a factor, as sailing ships averaged about 2 knots speed (50 miles a day). Navigators had to rely on maps of currents or they would be becalmed for days or weeks. These maps were not only for navigational purposes however, but also as a way to give insight in regards to power and ownership of lands that had already been claimed, essentially creating a greater desire to finding new routes and land. One major goal for centuries was finding the Northwest Passage (through what is now Canada) from Europe to Asia.\n\nFollowing Columbus and the earliest European voyages to the New World and the west African coast Africa and the division of the Americas between the Spanish Empire and the Portuguese Empire was effected by the Treaty of Tordesillas. The West Coast of Africa played a special role as the source of slave labor. There emerged an elaborate network of economic, geopolitical and cultural exchange—an \"Atlantic World\" comparable to \"Mediterranean World.\" It linked the nations and peoples that inhabited the Atlantic litoral of North and South America, Africa and Western Europe.\n\nThe main empires that built the Atlantic world were the British, French, Spanish\n, Portuguese and Dutch; entrepreneurs from the United States played a role as well after 1789. Other countries, such as Sweden and Denmark, were active on a smaller scale.\n\nThe beginning of extensive contact between Europe, Africa, and the Americas had sweeping implications for the environmental and demographic history of all the regions involved. In the process known as the Columbian exchange, numerous plants, animals, and diseases were transplanted—both deliberately and inadvertently—from one continent to another. The epidemiological impact of this exchange on the indigenous peoples of the Americas was profound, causing very high death rates and population declines of 50% to 90% or even 100%. European and African immigrants also had very high death rates on their arrival, but they could be and were replaced by new shipments of immigrants (see the Population history of American indigenous peoples). Many foods that are common in present-day Europe, including corn (maize) and potatoes, originated in the New World and were unknown in Europe before the sixteenth century. Similarly, some staple crops of present-day West Africa, including cassava and peanuts, originated in the New World. Some of the staple crops of Latin America, such as coffee and sugarcane, were introduced by European settlers in the course of the Columbian Exchange.\n\nThe slave trade played a role in the history of the Atlantic world almost from the beginning. As European powers began to conquer and claim large territories in the Americas in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the role of chattel slavery and other forced labor systems in the development of the Atlantic world expanded. European powers typically had vast territories that they wished to exploit through agriculture, mining, or other extractive industries, but they lacked the work force that they needed to exploit their lands effectively. Consequently, they turned to a variety of coercive labor systems to meet their needs. At first the goal was to use native workers. Native Americans were employed through Indian slavery and through the Spanish system of encomienda. The Indians too often preferred to die of starvation rather than be slaves, so the plantation owners turned to African slaves via the Atlantic slave trade. European workers arrived as indentured servants or transported felons who went free after a term of labor.\n\nThe Trans-Atlantic Slave trade played a massive role in shaping the demographics of the Americas, especially in areas where huge plantations were the norm, such as in South America and the Caribbean. Roughly three quarters of immigrants to the Americas before 1820 were African, and more than half of these Africans were originally from West or Central Africa. In Brazil, the population percentage of Africans was even higher, with about seven African to every one Portuguese immigrant. Because there was such a large population of Africans, it is unsurprising that African slaves aided in shaping the culture of these regions. In the early colonial period, there was a high prevalence of African spiritual practices, such as spirit possessions and healing practices. Presumably, these practices served as a point of connection and as an identity hold for slaves hailing from the same African origin. Such cultural practices allowed, at least to an extent, African slaves to maintain kinship structures similar to those that they might have seen in their homeland. In many cases, European authorities viewed spiritual positions that were highly esteemed in African societies to be socially unacceptable, morally corrupt, and heretical. This led to the disappearance or transformation of most African religious practices. For example, the practice of consulting kilundu, or Angolan spirits, was seen as homosexual by Portuguese authorities, a clear example of Eurocentrism in colonial societies, as European ideas of religion often did not match African ones. Unfortunately, there is a lack of documents written from the African point of view, so almost all information from this time period in these colonial societies is subject to cross-cultural misinterpretation, omission of facts, or other such changes that could affect the quality of description of African spiritual practices. Maintaining the integrity of cultural practices was difficult due to disagreement with European propriety and European tendency to generalize the African demographic makeup to merely “Central African,” rather than acknowledging individual cultures. Eventually, most African traditions such as Kilundu, which was ultimately reduced to the popular Brazilian dance “Lundu,” were either absorbed into other African traditions or reduced to a ritual simply resembling the original tradition.\nThe extent of voluntary immigration to the Atlantic world varied considerably by region, nationality, and time period. Many European nations, particularly the Netherlands and France, only managed to send a few thousand voluntary immigrants. Though 15,000 or so who came to New France multiplied rapidly. In New Netherland, the Dutch coped by recruiting immigrants of other nationalities. In New England, the massive Puritan migration of the first half of the seventeenth century created a large free workforce and thus obviated the need to use unfree labor on a large scale. Colonial New England's reliance on the labor of free men, women, and children, organized in individual farm households, is called the family labor system.\n\nThe French colony of Saint-Domingue was one of the first American jurisdictions to end slavery, in 1794. Brazil was last nation in the Western Hemisphere to end slavery, in 1888.\n\nThe Spanish conquistadores conquered the Aztec empire in present-day Mexico and the Inca empire in present-day Peru with ease, assisted by horses, guns, and above all by the devastating mortality inflicted by newly introduced diseases such as smallpox. To some extent the prior emergence of the Inca and Aztec empires as regional powers aided the transfer of governance to the Spanish, since these native empires had already established road systems, state bureaucracies and systems of taxation and intensive agriculture that were in some cases inherited wholesale by the Spanish. The early Spanish conquerors of these empires were also aided by political instability and internal conflict within the Aztec and Incan regimes, which they successfully exploited to their benefit.\n\nOne of the problems that most European governments faced in the Americas was how to exercise authority over vast expanses of territory. Spain, which colonized Mexico, Central America, and the greater part of South America, established a network of powerful viceroyalties to administer different regions of its New World holdings: the Viceroyalty of New Spain (1535), the Viceroyalty of Peru (1542), the Viceroyalty of New Granada (1717/1739), and the Viceroyalty of Rio de la Plata (1776). The result was strong government that became even stronger during the Bourbon reforms of the 18th century.\n\nBritain approached the task of governing its New World territories in less centralized manner, establishing about twenty distinct colonies in North America and the Caribbean from 1585 onward. Each British colony had its own governor and an assembly. The North American Thirteen Colonies developed a system of home rule and democratic self-government. Usually only property owners could vote but since so many free men owned property a majority could and did vote. It was the British threat against home rule, and its demand for control of taxation, that led to the American Revolution in the 1770s.\n\nA wave of revolutions shook the Atlantic world, 1770s-1820s, including the United States (1775–1783), France and French-controlled Europe (1789–1814), Haiti (1791–1804), and Spanish America (1810–1825). There were smaller upheavals in Switzerland, Russia, and Brazil. The revolutionaries in each country knew of the others and to some degree were inspired or emulated them.\n\nIndependence movements in the New World began with the American Revolution, 1775-1783, in which France, the Netherlands and Spain assisted the new United States of America as it secured independence from Britain. In the 1790s the Haitian Revolution broke out, with large-scale killings. With Spain tied down in European wars, the mainland Spanish colonies secured independence around 1820.\n\nIn long-term perspective, the revolutions were mostly successful. They spread widely the ideals of republicanism, the overthrow of aristocracies, kings and established churches. They emphasized the universal ideals of The Enlightenment, such as the equality of all men. They emphasized equal justice under law by disinterested courts, as opposed to particular justice handed down at the whim of a local noble. They showed that the modern notion of revolution, of starting fresh with a radically new government, could actually work in practice. Revolutionary mentalities were born and continue to flourish to the present day.\n\nHistorian Bernard Bailyn traces the concept of the Atlantic world to an editorial published by journalist Walter Lippmann in 1917. The alliance of the United States and Great Britain in World War II, and the subsequent creation of NATO, heightened historians' interest in the history of interaction between societies on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nIn American and British universities, Atlantic World history is supplementing (and possibly supplanting) the study of specific European colonial societies in the Americas, e.g. British North America or Spanish America. Atlantic world history differs from traditional approaches to the history of colonization in its emphasis on inter-regional and international comparisons and its attention to events and trends that transcended national borders. Atlantic world history also emphasizes how the colonization of the Americas reshaped Africa and Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "27397791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27397791", "title": "Bakri Sapalo", "text": "Bakri Sapalo\n\nSheikh Bakri Sapalo (born Abubakar Garad Usman; November 1895 - 5 April 1980) was an Oromo scholar, poet and religious teacher. He is best known as the inventor of a writing system for the Oromo language.\n\nBakri Sapalo was the son of Garad Usman Oda, a landowner in the area of the Sapalo River who was among those who were carried over into Emperor Menelik's regime after the conquest of Harar. His son Abubakar was born eight years after the conquest of Harar, and probably some sixteen years after Garad Usman had embraced Islam; Abubakar had three brothers and four sisters. Although reputed to have been a good Muslim and remembered to this day for his skill in oratory and command of the Oromo language, Garad Usman remained illiterate. R. J. Hayward and Mohammed Hassan speculate, based on her name, that his mother Kadiga was also a Muslim. After receiving his elementary education, Abubakar went to Chercher where he studied under the Islamic teacher Sheikh Umar Aliyye Balbaletti, and afterwards went to Harar to study with Sheikh Yusuf Adam for a number of years there. Although he also studied under other Islamic teachers, these were the only ones he wrote biographies about.\n\nAfter devoting 20 years of his life to his studies, he returned to his home village of Sapalo, where he began to teach. Besides religion, subjects he taught included geography, history, mathematics, astronomy, Arabic, and the composition of writings in the Oromo language. He also began to compose poetry in the Oromo language, which not only brought him fame but the name he afterwards was known by, Sheikh Bakri Sapalo: \"Bakri\" is the popular form of \"Abubakar\" and Sapalo after his village. Sheikh Bakri eventually left Sapalo and taught in a number of places, of which the three best known are Hortu, near Dire Dawa, the city of Dire Dawa itself, and Addelle, a place some 25 kilometers from Dire Dawa, on the road to Harar. It was at Addelle where he built a school and what came to be known as his mosque. He is said to have married a local woman at every place he stayed, at least 11 of whom are known. He had eighteen children by three of his wives, thirteen sons and five daughters. Despite the large number of wives, he carefully obeyed the Muslim commandments on polygamy, for he is said never to have had more than two wives at once, and towards the end of his life he had only one wife. During this time he also wrote prolifically both in Arabic and Oromo.\n\nHe is believed to have invented his writing system for Oromo in 1956 at the village of Hagi Qome. Neither Hayward nor Hassan offer a reason why Sheikh Bakri returned to his home area to work on his system, \"unless it was for the purpose of keeping the thing secret, for the authorities would certainly have been adamantly opposed to the idea of Oromo being written in any form, let alone in a script other than Ethiopic.\" Although it was initially met with great enthusiasm and found a number of users in his province of Hararghe, the Ethiopian authorities predictably reacted with fear that he was \"inciting the Oromo to too great an ethnic consciousness and thus endangering the national unity.\" Local officials moved quickly to suppress its use, and in 1965 Sheikh Bakri was placed under house arrest in Dire Dawa but allowed to continue his teaching. In 1968, he was given permission to visit Addelle two or three times a week. It was during these years that he wrote \"Shalda\", a twenty-page pamphlet which purported to be a work of religious instruction, but was actually from beginning to end a caustically worded indictment of Amhara colonial oppression and an account of the suffering of the Oromo under the rule of Emperor Haile Selassie. Hayward and Hassan further note that \"\"Shalda\" is of interest in that it is really both the first and the last major writing in Shaykh Bakri Sapalo's alphabet.\"\n\nIn 1978, after Emperor Haile Selassie was deposed and the Derg gained power, Sheikh Bakri and his wife fled the Red Terror and fled to Somalia where they were admitted to a refugee camp in Hiraan. Sheikh Bakri had hoped he would be allowed to proceed further to Mogadishu where he could work and have his writings published, but he never received permission to leave the camp. Conditions there proved too much for a man in his eighties, and he died in the camp after a prolonged illness.\n\nAlthough Sheikh Bakri wrote many works both on religious and secular topics, except for a few distributed in mimeograph form all of his writings remained in manuscript form during his lifetime, and were distributed amongst his students. Hayward and Hassan list eight of his writings in Arabic, which at the time could be consulted in Mogadishu: \"Dirdsa fi al-mantiqa 1-Harariyya jughrafiyyan wa bashariyyan\", a study of the geography and demography of the Harar region of about 200 pages; two works on history, \"Janaza shamarikh min hadayiz al-tawarikh\" 95 pages in length, and \"Kitab irsal al-sawarikh ila sama' al-tawarikh\" a history of the Oromo in 56 pages; three religious writings \"Al-mawahib al-madadiyyah fi l-'awf al-'adadiyya\", \"Muqaddamat taysir al-zari'a\" (48 pages long), and \"Taysir al-zari'a ila fuquhiyy fi ahkam al-shari'a\"; and the two biographies of his teachers mentioned above.\n\nMohammed Hassan made use of Sheikh Bakri's \"Kitab irsal al-sawarikh ila sama' al-tawarikh\" in writing his \"The Oromo of Ethiopia, a History: 1570-1860\", describing the manuscript in the bibliography as sketching \"an overall panorama of Oromo history from early times to the present. Although it is not free from major limitations on early Oromo history, it contains much useful data on the gada system.\" Hassan relies on it heavily in his discussion on the gaada system.\n\nAs noted above, Sheikh Bakri was also a renowned Oromo poet. \"Shaykh Bakri, write Hayward and Hassan, \"stirred the imagination and captured the love of the Oromo masses by means of his poems, which were composed in their language and were short enough for the people to learn by heart.\"\n\nSheikh Bakri Sapalo's chief accomplishment is his writing system. Although Oromo has been transcribed using two writing systems Sheikh Sapalo was familiar with, the Ge'ez script and the Arabic alphabet, both are \"far from adequate\" in Hayward and Hassan's opinion, for reasons they set forth. (Most important being that Amhara has only seven vowels while Oromo has 10.) While they \"have no reason whatsoever to entertain the belief that Shaykh Bakri had ever studied modern linguistics, or was acquainted with the concept of the phoneme, it is nevertheless the case that his writing system is almost entirely phonemic; that is to say, it is a system achieving the ideal of just one graphic symbol for each phonologically distinctive sound of the language.\" They further describe his writing system as a combination of a syllabary and an alphabet in that while the Ge'ez script builds on a consonantal base, the base character never appears without a modification to show the paired vowel. However, although the symbols Sheikh Bakri adopted are not cursive, which suggests a connection with Ge'ez over Arabic, none of them can be traced to either writing system; \"they are a complete novelty.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46289972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46289972", "title": "Benson Latin American Collection", "text": "Benson Latin American Collection\n\nThe Nettie Lee Benson Latin American Collection is part of the University of Texas Library system, located in Austin, Texas, and named for the historian and bibliographer, Nettie Lee Benson (1905-1993). It is one of the world's most comprehensive collections of Latin American materials.\n\nThe collections are housed in the Sid Richardson Hall, which also houses the Dolph Briscoe Center of American History and Barker Texas History Collections Center. This library is in affiliation with Tereza Lozano Long Institute for Latin American Studies (LLILAS), which this library serves as a hub for studies pertaining to Latin American history and studies. Some of the collections housed in this library include over 970,000 books, 19,000 maps, 93,500 photographs, 4,000 linear feet of manuscripts, 11,500 broadsides, and 50,000 items in other multimedia formats. Most of the focus of the sources are of Texas and Mexico, the concentration of items are also from all of the other Latin American countries, namely Central America, Chile, Peru, and Brazil.\n\nThe Latin American holdings at the University of Texas have increased since the early twentieth century. Historian Carlos E. Castañeda wrote a history of the collection to 1940, detailing deals for some acquisitions that he observed. Distinguished Latin American historian Charles W. Hackett, along with three other University of Texas professors went to the 1920 inauguration of revolutionary General Álvaro Obregón as president of Mexico. Hackett learned that the library of historian and bibliophile Genaro García was for sale following his death. Hackett arranged for an appraisal by University of Texas and the deal was negotiated. The collection was enormously rich, 25,000 printed items, newspapers, personal papers of Vicente Guerrero, Antonio López de Santa Anna, Valentín Gómez Farías, Lucas Alamán, Vicente Riva Palacio and others were part of the collection that was transported to Austin by a special train. The expansion of University of Texas's role in Latin American studies dates to this acquisition.\n\nThe university's Latin American collection was further enriched by a number of acquisitions, including a donation of volumes by the Hispanic Society of America and papers of U.S. historian Justin H. Smith, the collection of Chilean historian Diego Muñoz, which included many works by or about José Toribio Medina. In addition, the library acquired the private collection of Paraguayan historian Manuel Gondra. A huge addition to the library was the acquisition of virtually all the collection of Mexican historian Joaquín García Icazbalceta that deal with sixteenth-century Mexico. The García Icazbalceta collection included rare and important sixteenth-century printed works, including Bishop Juan de Zumárraga's 1544 \"Doctrina\", Fray Pedro de Gante's \"Doctrina\", writings of Francisco Cervantes de Salazar. Manuscripts include an autograph letter by Hernán Cortés, a memorial by Fray Bartolomé de las Casas, the \"residencia\" of the first viceroy of Mexico, Antonio de Mendoza, and the manuscript of Fray Gerónimo de Mendieta's history of the Franciscans in Mexico.\n\nNettie Lee Benson, for whom the Latin American collection is named, devoted the greatest part of her career to expanding the library's holdings by traveling to Latin America to acquire materials and she \"developed an innovative acquisition methodology adapted to the conditions in the Latin-American book-publishing trade.\" In a taped interview, Benson discusses the collection and her role in helping build it.\n\nSid Richardson Hall\n1 University Station\nAustin, Texas 78712\n\n"}
{"id": "3613332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3613332", "title": "Black Workers' Struggle for Equality in Birmingham", "text": "Black Workers' Struggle for Equality in Birmingham\n\nBlack Workers' Struggle for Equality in Birmingham is a 2001 book written by David Montgomery, Professor of History Emeritus at Yale University, in collaboration with Horace Huntley of the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute. The book makes use of oral histories to explain the interactions between African-American workers and labor unions in the post-Civil War American South.\n"}
{"id": "13281120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13281120", "title": "Carl Frederik Bricka", "text": "Carl Frederik Bricka\n\nCarl Frederik Bricka (July 10, 1845 – August 23, 1903) was a Danish archivist, historian, and biographer. \n\nCarl Bricka was born in Copenhagen, Denmark. His father, Frederik Vilhelm Theodor Bricka (1809-79), was a medical doctor. He attended Metropolitanskolen and earned his Magister degree from the University of Copenhagen (1870). He became an assistant at the Danish Royal Library in 1871. During the period 1883-97, he was employed in the Danish National Archives, after which he became the department head (\"Rigsarkivar\"). \nBricka became a member of the board of the Danish Historical Society and edited the historical magazine published by the association (1878-97).\nHe also served as editor of \"Danske Magazin\" (1883-1901). From 1885 until his death in 1903, he was the publisher of the \"Dansk biografisk lexikon: tillige omfattende Norge for Tidsrummet 1537–1814\". The first edition of this Danish biographic encyclopedia was published by Gyldendal in 19 volumes between 1887 to 1905.\n\n"}
{"id": "23683650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23683650", "title": "Christian von Ditfurth", "text": "Christian von Ditfurth\n\nWolf-Christian von Ditfurth (born March 14, 1953) is a German author and historian. He was a member of the German Communist Party from 1973 to 1983. In January 1998, he joined the SPD, remaining a member for two years. During the twenty-first century he has not joined a political party.\n\nAs a journalist, Ditfurth has published numerous articles in \"Der Spiegel\". Since 1999 also been a writer of sensational and detective novels.\n\nA member of the Ditfurth family, his father Hoimar von Ditfurth was a journalist, doctor, popular television presenter and writer, while his sister, Jutta Ditfurth, is a journalist and politician.\n"}
{"id": "51566772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51566772", "title": "City Museum of Mitrovica", "text": "City Museum of Mitrovica\n\nThe City Museum of Mitrovica () is a museum in Mitrovica, Kosovo, established in 1952. It is currently housed in the former Yugoslav Army House located in the city center. \n\nThe museum holds over 1,000 archaeological artifacts from different historical periods, dating back to the Illyrian civilization, and displays over 800 ethnological handiworks, representing the local diversity. The museum houses historical materials and documents and geological and numismatic collections among others. \n\nThe City Museum of Mitrovica organizes various of events and activities, including Mitro të dua (), an annual event focused on the presentation and the digitization of cultural treasures of Mitrovica, with particular emphasis on the performing arts, initiating this way the foundation of contemporary art section within the museum. \n"}
{"id": "32478307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32478307", "title": "Conference on Indians in the Americas", "text": "Conference on Indians in the Americas\n\nThe first United Nations Conference on Indians in the Americas was held in Geneva in 1977. \n\nIt was organised by Jimmie Durham, head of the International Indian Treaty Council, with Mapuche leaders exiled from Chile under Pinochet and supported by the American activist Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz.\n\nThe lobbyists went on to set up a formal working group, but the United Nations widened its scope from the Americas to indigenous peoples of the world. The conference was therefore seen as the first UN conference on Indigenous Peoples.\n\nAfter a further thirty years of campaigning, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples on September 13, 2007. It was opposed only by the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. \n"}
{"id": "37964475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37964475", "title": "Department of Contemporary History of the University of Vienna", "text": "Department of Contemporary History of the University of Vienna\n\nThe Department of Contemporary History of the University of Vienna (German: ) is a scientific institution for the study of contemporary history. The headquarters of the institute is on the campus of the University of Vienna in the Alsergrund district of Vienna. It has about 30 scientific members (as of 2006), about half of them on the staff of the University of Vienna and the other half Privatdozenten who are assigned to the institute. The institute is run as a member of the association of the Vienna Wiesenthal Institute for Holocaust Studies.\n\nThe Institute of Contemporary History was established on 3 June 1966 by the Austrian Federal Ministry of Education.\nThe historian Ludwig Jedlicka, co-founder of the Documentation Centre of Austrian Resistance (DÖW) and director of the Austrian Institute for Contemporary History (since 1961) became the first director of the new institute. His successor was the historian Erika Weinzierl, who developed the research in the fields of antisemitism and exile and emigration during the time of Nazism. later directors were Gerhard Botz, Friedrich Stadler and Oliver Rathkolb. The current director of the institute is Johanna Gehmacher (since 2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "16823357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16823357", "title": "Eduard Seler", "text": "Eduard Seler\n\nEduard Georg Seler (December 5, 1849 – November 23, 1922) was a prominent German anthropologist, ethnohistorian, linguist, epigrapher, academic and Americanist scholar, who made extensive contributions in these fields towards the study of pre-Columbian era cultures in the Americas. He is most renowned for his foundational studies concerning the ethnography, documents and history of Mesoamerican cultures, for which he is regarded as one of the most influential Mesoamericanist scholars active around the turn of the 20th century. Seler laid many fundamentals in understanding and deciphering the aztec pictorial script. A main contribution was the re-discovery and analysis of the basic aztec calendar system: the existence of two aztec calendars, a 365-day solar profane (everyday use) resp. a 263-day lunar religious calendar.\nHe also noted from the sources, that the ceremonial killing victim figures alleged by Spanish priests and military (10.000s or even 100.000s, repeatedly) in their chronicles were most probably vastly exaggerated propaganda. Much later, that was confirmed by excavations end of the 20th century.\n\nBeing poor and of ailing health, he was helped and supported for decades by his wife Cäcilie (Cecilia) Seler-Sachs (1855–1935, financially (she was the daughter of Dr Sachs, a wealthy MD), physically (during their long, hard, and insecure travels), and intellectually. Her photos of Aztec temples and pyramids are still useful to scientists, and after her husband's death she went on verifying his works, and publishing them. On the spot, the Selers were helped by Mexican scholar and historian Antonio Peñafiel.\n‘’Research’’\n\n\n\n \nOver a hundred images of Uxmal in Seler's 1917 \"Ruinen von Uxmal\". http://academic.reed.edu/uxmal/galleries/thumbnails/drawings/Drawings-Seler.htm\n"}
{"id": "885379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885379", "title": "Flying shuttle", "text": "Flying shuttle\n\nThe flying shuttle was one of the key developments in the industrialization of weaving during the early Industrial Revolution. It allowed a single weaver to weave much wider fabrics, and it could be mechanized, allowing for automatic machine looms. The flying shuttle, which was patented by John Kay (1704–c. 1779) in 1733, greatly sped up the previous hand process and halved the labour force. Where a broad-cloth loom previously required a weaver on each side, it could now be worked by a single operator. Until this point the textile industry had required four spinners to service one weaver. Kay's innovation, in wide use by the 1750s, greatly increased this disparity.\n\nIn a typical frame loom, as used previous to the invention of the flying shuttle, the operator sat with the newly woven cloth before him or her, using treadles or some other mechanism to raise and lower the heddles, which opened the shed in the warp threads. The operator then had to reach forward while holding the shuttle in one hand and pass this through the shed; the shuttle carried a bobbin for the weft. The shuttle then had to be caught in the other hand, the shed closed, and the beater pulled forward to push the weft into place. This action (called a \"pick\") required regularly bending forward over the fabric; more importantly, the coordination between the throwing and catching of the shuttle required multiple operators if the width of the fabric exceeded that which could be reasonably reached across (typically or less).\n\nThe flying shuttle employs a board, called the \"race,\" which runs, side to side, along the front of the beater, forming a track on which the shuttle runs. The lower threads of the shed rest on the track and the shuttle slides over them. At each end of the race, there is a box which catches the shuttle at the end of its journey, and which contains a mechanism for propelling the shuttle on its return trip. The shuttle itself has some subtle differences from the older form. The ends of the shuttle are bullet-shaped and metal-capped, and the shuttle generally has rollers to reduce friction. The weft thread is made to exit from the end rather than the side, and the thread is stored on a pirn (a long, conical, one-ended, non-turning bobbin) to allow it to feed more easily. Finally, the flying shuttle is generally somewhat heavier, so as to have sufficient momentum to carry it all the way through the shed. \n\nThe increase in production due to the flying shuttle exceeded the capacity of the spinning industry of the day, and prompted development of powered spinning machines, beginning with the spinning jenny and the waterframe, and culminating in the spinning mule, which could produce strong, fine thread in the quantities needed. These innovations transformed the textile industry in Great Britain. All were attacked as threats to the livelihood of spinners and weavers, and Kay's patent was largely ignored. It is often incorrectly written that Kay was attacked and fled to France, but in fact he simply moved there to attempt to rent out his looms, a business model that had failed him in England.\n\nThe flying shuttle produced a new source of injuries to the weaving process; if deflected from its path, it could be shot clear of the machine, potentially striking workers. Turn-of-the-century injury reports abound with instances in which eyes were lost or other injuries sustained and, in several instances (for example, an extended exchange in 1901), the British House of Commons was moved to take up the issue of installing guards and other contrivances to reduce these injuries.\n\nThe flying shuttle dominated commercial weaving through the middle of the twentieth century. By that time, other systems had begun to supplant it. The heavy shuttle was noisy and energy-inefficient (since the energy used to throw it was largely lost in the catching); also, its inertia limited the speed of the loom. Projectile and rapier looms eliminated the need to take the bobbin/pirn of thread through the shed; later, air- and water-jet looms reduced the weight of moving parts further. Flying shuttle looms are still used for some purposes, and old models remain in use.\n\n"}
{"id": "56801616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56801616", "title": "Fédération Internationale des Véhicules Anciens", "text": "Fédération Internationale des Véhicules Anciens\n\nThe Fédération International des Véhicules Anciens or FIVA (English: international federation of ancient vehicles) is the worldwide federative association of historic automobile clubs, be they for veteran, vintage, pre- or post-war classic cars, at least thirty years old.<br>\nFIVA statutes define it as: \"a non-profit international association of clubs, federations and other organisations concerned with the preservation, restoration, use and culture of mechanically propelled road vehicles.\" \n\nFIVA member clubs represent more than 1.5 million oldtimer enthusiasts in 64 countries, through more than 85 member organizations.\n\nThe FIVA's executive board bestows so-called ANF-Status (\"Autorité Nationale de la FIVA\"), or national FIVA authoritative status, upon one member organization per country, with the American Historic Vehicle Association (HVA) as the designated North American representative of FIVA – both for the U.S. and Canada.\n\nIn 2013 all 61 national member organizations of FIVA ratified and enacted the so-called \"Turin Charter\", set forth by The International Committee for the Conservation of the Industrial Heritage (TICCIH) \"to preserve and safeguard the history of vehicles including their engineering, form, functions and documented histories and their many and diverse relationships with society and social environments, ..\" \n\nThe “Fédération Internationale des Véhicules Anciens” was founded in 1966, when several historic vehicle associations and classic car clubs in a number of different countries felt a need for a worldwide body to promote and direct the interests of a historic vehicle movement internationally.\n\nFIVA’s primary objective was to: \"encourage the safe use of self-propelled, mechanical vehicles, more than thirty years old, on the roads for the benefit of both their owners, dedicated enthusiasts and the general public.\" \n\nThe FIVA’s three main goals and objectives include:\n\nFIVA's \"Culture Commission\" works to achieve recognition of historic vehicles and related objects, as culturally significant artifacts, by legal and political authorities and other stakeholders. FIVA's \"Events Commission\" collaborated with the European Commission to create a freely downloadable Driver's Code for general guidance of historic vehicle users, and also has devised a code for the safe promotion of rallies or mildly competitive events. The \"Technical Commission\" works to support the preservation of as many historic vehicles as possible, by cataloguing them with FIVA's \"Vehicle ID-card\". FIVA has forged links with UNESCO and has persuaded the European Commission to accept that historic vehicles represent an important part of industrial heritage. FIVA has further linked up with the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), to promote the interest of historic cars in more sporting arenas, and with the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM), to help achieve similar objectives for motorcycles. FIVA's \"Legislation Commission\" works to address legislation that (threatens to) limit(s) the continued use of historic vehicles. Sofar this has primarily been concentrated on European countries and the European Union, but legislation pressures on motor transport are ever increasing generally.\n\nFIVA has Ambassadors, and a number of dedicated commissions working on its (members') national and international goals:\n\nAccording to FIVA, a historic vehicle is \"a mechanically propelled road vehicle:\n\nVehicle classifications \n"}
{"id": "31864500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31864500", "title": "Gabriel Maura", "text": "Gabriel Maura\n\nGabriel Maura Gamazo (Madrid 1879 – Madrid 1963) was a Spanish politician and historian. He was the son of Antonio Maura - who was Prime Minister of Spain on five occasions. Gabriel was active in the Liberal-Conservative Party and served as Labour Minister in the last government cabinet of Alfonso XIII before the dictatorship of Miguel Primo de Rivera. He fled Spain during the Civil War and did not return until 1953. His archives were destroyed in the conflict by the Popular Front.\n\nAs a historian Maura Gamazo was known for his critique of the Primo dictatorship, 'Bosquejo Histórico de la Dictadura' (English: \"Historical Sketch of the Dictatorship\"). He was a member of the Royal Spanish Academy and the Real Academia de la Historia.\n"}
{"id": "58736250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58736250", "title": "George Beardoe Grundy", "text": "George Beardoe Grundy\n\nGeorge Beardoe Grundy M.A. Oxon., D.Litt. Oxon. (10 January 1861, Wallasey – 6 December 1948, Oxford) was an English historian, specializing in the military history of ancient Greece and Rome.\n\nGrundy was educated at Risley School and then at Lichfield Grammar School. He began teaching at age 16. At age 27 he matriculated at Brasenose College, Oxford, and received in 1892 the title of \"Geographical Student of the University of Oxford\", becoming a lecturer on ancient geography. He was from 1897 to 1903 a lecturer for professor of ancient history at Oxford, from 1903 to 1931 a fellow and tutor of ancient history at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, and from 1904 to 1917 a tutor in ancient history at Brasenose College, Oxford. He was in 1899 proxime accessit for the Arnold Historical Essay with a paper on Roman Dacia and in 1900 received the Conington Prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "944393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=944393", "title": "Henri Troyat", "text": "Henri Troyat\n\nHenri Troyat (1 November 1911 – 2 March 2007) was a Russian-born French author, biographer, historian and novelist.\n\nTroyat was born Lev Aslanovich Tarasov, (, \"Lev Aslanovich Tarasov\") in Moscow to parents of mixed heritage, including Armenian, Russian, German and Georgian. According to his autobiography he states that his surname is Armenian (Torossian), while his maternal grandmother was German and his maternal grandfather was of mixed Georgian and Armenian descent. His family fled Russia after the outbreak of the revolution. After a long exodus taking them to the Caucasus on to Crimea and later by sea to Istanbul and then Venice, the family finally settled in Paris in 1920, where young Troyat was schooled and later earned a law degree. The stirring and tragic events of this flight across half of Europe are vividly recounted by Troyat in \"Tant que la terre durera\". His first marriage produced a son before ending in divorce. He later married the love of his life, a widow with a young daughter whom he raised as his own.\n\nTroyat received his first literary award, \"Le prix du roman populaire\", at the age of twenty-four, and by twenty-seven, he was awarded the Prix Goncourt. He published more than 100 books, novels and biographies, among them those of Anton Chekhov, Catherine the Great, Rasputin, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Ivan the Terrible and Leo Tolstoy. Troyat's best-known work is \"La neige en deuil\", which was adapted as an English-language film in 1956 under the title \"The Mountain\".\n\nTroyat was elected as a member of the Académie française in 1959. At the time of his death, he was the longest-serving member.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "413452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413452", "title": "History of Uganda (1971–79)", "text": "History of Uganda (1971–79)\n\nThe history of Uganda between 1971 and 1979 comprises the history of Uganda during Idi Amin's military dictatorship over Uganda.\n\nThe Ugandan economy was devastated by Idi Amin's policies, including the expulsion of Asians, the nationalisation of businesses and industry, and the expansion of the public sector. The real value of salaries and wages collapsed by 90% in less than a decade. The number of people killed as a result of his regime is unknown; estimates from international observers and human rights groups range from 100,000 to 500,000.\n\nFrom Uganda's independence from Great Britain in 1962 to early 1971, Milton Obote's regime had terrorized, harassed, and tortured people. Frequent food shortages had blasted food prices through the ceiling. Obote's persecution of Indian traders had contributed to this. During Obote's regime, flagrant and widespread corruption had emerged. The regime was disliked, particularly in Buganda where people had suffered the most.\n\nBy January 1971, Milton Obote, then President of Uganda, was prepared to rid himself of the potential threat posed by Idi Amin. Departing for the 1971 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting at Singapore, he relayed orders to loyal Langi officers that Amin and his supporters in the army were to be arrested. Various versions emerged of the way this news was leaked to Amin. Also, the role of the foreign powers in the coup had been debated until recently. Documents declassified by the British Foreign Office reveal that, contrary to earlier speculations, it was not directly facilitated by Great Britain but benefited from covert support by Israel which saw Idi Amin as an agent to de-stabilise Islamic Sudan.\nThe documents however unveil an outrightly positive assessment of Amin's personality by the British authorities as well as recommendations of support and the sale of arms to the new regime.\n\nIn any case, Amin decided to forestall Obote and strike first. In the early morning hours of 25 January 1971, mechanized army units loyal to him attacked strategic targets in Kampala and the airport at Entebbe, where the first shell fired by a pro-Amin tank commander killed two Roman Catholic priests in the airport waiting room. Amin's troops easily overcame the disorganized opposition to the coup, and Amin almost immediately initiated mass executions of Acholi and Langi troops, whom he believed to be pro-Obote.\n\nThe Amin coup was warmly welcomed by most of the people of the Buganda kingdom, which Obote had attempted to dismantle. They seemed willing to forget that their new president, Idi Amin, had been the tool of that military suppression. Amin made the usual statements about his government's intent to play a mere \"caretaker role\" until the country could recover sufficiently for civilian rule. Amin repudiated Obote's non-aligned foreign policy, and his government was quickly recognized by Israel, Britain, and the United States. By contrast, presidents Julius Nyerere of Tanzania, Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia, Jomo Kenyatta of Kenya, and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) initially refused to accept the legitimacy of the new military government. Nyerere, in particular, opposed Amin's regime, and he offered hospitality to the exiled Obote, facilitating his attempts to raise a force and return to power.\n\nAmin's military experience, which was virtually his only experience, determined the character of his rule. He renamed Government House \"the Command Post\", instituted an advisory defence council composed of military commanders, placed military tribunals above the system of civil law, appointed soldiers to top government posts and parastatal agencies, and even informed the newly inducted civilian cabinet ministers that they would be subject to military discipline.\n\nUganda then became a military dictatorship which was, in effect, governed from a collection of military barracks scattered across the country, where battalion commanders, acting like local warlords, represented the coercive arm of the government. The Ugandan General Service Unit (GSU), an intelligence agency created by the previous government, was disbanded and replaced by the Ugandan State Research Bureau (SRB). SRB headquarters at Nakasero became the scene of torture and executions over the next couple of years.\n\nDespite its outward display of a military chain of command, Amin's government was arguably more consumed with rivalries, regional divisions, and ethnic politics than the Uganda People's Congress (UPC) coalition that it had replaced. The army itself was an arena of lethal competition, in which losers were usually eliminated. Within the officer corps, those trained in Britain opposed those trained in Israel, and both stood against the untrained, who soon eliminated many of the army's most experienced officers. In 1966, well before the Amin era, northerners in the army had assaulted and harassed soldiers from the south. In 1971 and 1972, the Lugbara and Kakwa (Amin's ethnic group) from the West Nile were slaughtering northern Acholi and Langi, who were identified with Obote. Then the Kakwa fought the Lugbara. Amin came to rely on Nubians and on former Anyanya rebels from southern Sudan.\n\nAmin recruited his followers from his own tribe, the Kakwas, along with Sudanese and Nubians. By 1977, these three groups formed 60% of the 22 top generals and 75% of the cabinet. Similarly, Muslims formed 80% and 87.5% of these groups even though they were only 5% of the population. This helps explain why Amin survived eight attempted coups.\n\nThe Ugandan army grew from 10,000 to over 25,000 by 1978. Amin's army was largely a mercenary force. Half the soldiers were Sudanese, 26% Congolese, only 24% were Ugandan, mostly Muslim and Kakwa.\n\nOn 7 August 1973, Idi Amin decreed Swahili was to be Uganda's official language. 12 out of the 20 districts had chosen this, the other 8 wanted Luganda.\n\nThe army, which had been progressivelyy expanded under Obote, was further doubled and redoubled under Amin. Recruitment was largely, but not entirely, in the north. There were periodic purges, when various battalion commanders were viewed as potential problems or became real threats. Each purge provided new opportunities for promotions from the ranks. The commander of the Uganda Air Force, Smuts Guweddeko, had previously worked as a telephone operator; the unofficial executioner for the regime, Major Malyamungu, had formerly been a nightwatch officer. By the mid-1970s, only the most trustworthy military units were allowed ammunition, although this prohibition did not prevent a series of mutinies and murders. An attempt by an American journalist, Nicholas Stroh, and his colleague, Robert Siedle, to investigate one of these barracks outbreaks in 1971 at the Simba battalion in Mbarara led to their disappearances and, later, deaths. Several army officers who were suspected of having been involved in the murder of Stroh and Siedle were later appointed to high-ranking positions: Among these were Military Tribunal chairman Juma Butabika, chief technical officer of the airforce Captain Taban, Minister of Transport Juma Sabuni, and Minister of Regional administration Fadur Ali.\n\nAmin never forgot the source of his power. He spent much of his time rewarding, promoting, and manipulating the officers and soldiers of the Ugandan army. Financing his ever-increasing military expenditures was a continuing concern. Early in 1972, he reversed foreign policy — never a major issue for Amin — to secure financial and military aid from Muammar Gaddafi of Libya. Amin expelled the remaining Israeli advisers, to whom he was much indebted, and became anti-Israel. To induce foreign aid from Saudi Arabia, he rediscovered his previously neglected Islamic heritage. He also commissioned the construction of a great mosque on Kampala Hill in the capital city, but it was never completed during his rule because much of the money intended for it was embezzled. In 2008 Amin's dream of building one of Africa's largest mosques came true, and construction was finally completed more than 30 years after it initially began.\n\nFollowing his foreign policy reversal in 1972, the Soviet Union became Amin's largest arms supplier.\n\nEast Germany helped to build Amin's secret police. During the Tanzanian invasion in 1979, East Germany attempted to remove evidence about its involvement.\n\nIn August 1972, Amin gave most of Uganda's 80,000 Asians 90 days to leave the country, and seized their property, homes and businesses. At the time of the expulsion, there were approximately 80,000 individuals of South Asian descent in Uganda, of whom 23,000 had had their applications for citizenship both processed and accepted. Although the latter were ultimately exempted from the expulsion, many chose to leave voluntarily. The expulsion took place against a backdrop of Indophobia in Uganda, with Amin accusing a minority of the Asian population of disloyalty, non-integration and commercial malpractice, claims Indian leaders disputed. Amin defended the expulsion by arguing that he was giving Uganda back to the ethnic Ugandan.\n\nMany of the expellees were citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies and 27,200 subsequently emigrated to the United Kingdom. Of the other refugees who were accounted for, 6,000 went to Canada, 4,500 refugees ended up in India and 2,500 went to nearby Kenya. In total, some 5,655 firms, ranches, farms, and agricultural estates were reallocated, along with cars, homes and other household goods. Although Amin proclaimed that the \"common man\" was the beneficiary of this drastic act — which proved immensely popular in Uganda and most of Africa — it was actually the Ugandan army that emerged with the houses, cars, and businesses of the departing Asian minority. This expropriation of foreign property proved disastrous for the already declining economy. With the economy now run by Ugandan army officers and supporters (many of whom had no experience in how to run a business), all of the local businesses and stores were soon run into the ground from mismanagement and abuse of power, cement factories at Tororo and Fort Portal collapsed from lack of maintenance and neglect, and sugar production ground to a halt as unmaintained machinery jammed permanently.\n\nUganda's export crops were sold by government parastatals, but most of the foreign currency they earned went for purchasing weapons and imports for the army. The most famous example of this was the so-called \"whisky runs\" to Stansted Airport in England, where planeloads of expensive Scotch whisky, transistor radios, gold Rolex wristwatches, and other luxury items were purchased for Amin to distribute among his officers and soldiers. Amin later justified his rewarding and doting on the Ugandan army by quoting an old African proverb, which summed up to Amin's treatment of his army: \"A dog with a bone in its mouth can't bite.\"\n\nWith the Ugandan economy faltering, the rural African producers and farmers, particularly of coffee, turned to smuggling, especially to Kenya. The smuggling problem became an obsession with Amin; toward the end of his rule, he appointed his mercenary and political adviser, the former British citizen Bob Astles, to take all necessary steps to eliminate the problem. These steps included orders to the Ugandan police and army to shoot smugglers on sight.\n\nAnother near-obsession for Amin was the threat of a counter-attack by former president Obote. Shortly after the expulsion of Asians in 1972, Obote did launch such an attempt across the Tanzanian border into south-western Uganda. His small army contingent in twenty-seven trucks set out to capture the southern Ugandan military post at Masaka but instead settled down to await a general uprising against Amin, which did not occur. A planned seizure of the airport at Entebbe by soldiers in an allegedly hijacked East African Airways passenger aircraft was aborted when Obote's pilot blew out the aircraft's tires and it remained in Tanzania. Amin was able to mobilize his more reliable Malire Mechanical Regiment and expel the invaders.\n\nAlthough jubilant at his success, Amin realized that Obote, with Nyerere's aid, might try again. He had the SRB and the newly formed Public Safety Unit (PSU) redouble their efforts to uncover subversives and other imagined enemies of the state. General fear and insecurity became a way of life for the populace, as thousands of people disappeared. In an ominous twist, people sometimes learned by listening to the radio that they were \"about to disappear.\"\n\nState terrorism was evidenced in a series of spectacular incidents; for example, High Court Judge Benedicto Kiwanuka, former head of government and leader of the banned DP, was seized directly from his courtroom. Like many other victims, he was forced to remove his shoes and then bundled into the trunk of a car, never to be seen alive again. Whether calculated or not, the symbolism of a pair of shoes by the roadside to mark the passing of a human life was a bizarre yet piercing form of state terrorism.\n\nDuring the eight years under Amin's rule, the Ugandan environment and ecological system was subjected to abuse and destruction by widespread poaching and deforesting committed by both smugglers and Ugandan army soldiers. It is reported that Uganda lost 75% of its elephants, 98% of its rhinos, 90% of its crocodiles, 80% of its lions and leopards, in addition to numerous species of bird.\n\nAmin attempted to establish ties with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – External Operations in June 1976, when he offered the Palestinian hijackers of an Air France flight from Tel Aviv a protected base at the old airport at Entebbe, from which to press their demands in exchange for the release of Israeli hostages. The dramatic rescue of the hostages by Israeli commandos was a severe blow to Amin. Humiliated, he retaliated against an elderly hostage—75-year-old Dora Bloch— who was hospitalized in poor health at the time of the raid and was left behind. Bloch was kidnapped from her hospital bed and killed on Amin's orders, along with the entire civilian staff of Entebbe airport.\n\nAmin's government, conducted by often erratic personal proclamation, continued on. Because he was illiterate his entire life — a disability shared with most of his fellow military officers and soldiers — Amin relayed orders and policy decisions orally by telephone, over the radio, and in long rambling speeches to which civil servants were told to pay close attention. The bureaucracy soon became paralysed as government administrators feared to make what might prove to be a wrong decision that would displease or anger Amin in the slightest which would result in their immediate arrest and imprisonment or summary execution.\n\nShortly after Amin seized power, the Minister of Defence demanded, and was given, command of the Ministry of Education office building, but then the decision was reversed by Amin for no clear reason. Important education files were lost during their transfer back and forth by wheelbarrow. In many respects, Amin's government in the 1970s resembled the governments of nineteenth-century African monarchs, with the same problems of enforcing orders at a distance, controlling rival factions at court, and rewarding loyal followers with plunder. Amin's regime was possibly less efficient than those of the pre-colonial monarchs.\n\nReligious conflict was another characteristic of the Amin regime that had its origins in the nineteenth century. After rediscovering his Islamic allegiance in the effort to gain foreign aid from Libya and Saudi Arabia, Amin began to pay more attention to the formerly deprived Muslims in Uganda, a move which turned out to be a mixed blessing for them. Muslims began to do well in what economic opportunities yet remained, the more so if they had relatives in the army. Construction work began on Kibuli Hill, the site of Kampala's most prominent mosque. Many Ugandan Muslims with a sense of history believed that the Muslim defeat by Christians in 1889 was finally being redressed. Christians, in turn, perceived that they were under siege as a religious group; it was clear that Amin viewed the churches as potential centres of opposition. A number of priests and ministers disappeared in the course of the 1970s, but the matter reached a climax with the formal protest against army terrorism in 1977 by Church of Uganda ministers, led by Archbishop Janani Luwum. Although Luwum's body was subsequently recovered from a clumsily contrived \"car accident\", subsequent investigations revealed that Luwum had been shot dead.\n\nThis latest in a long line of atrocities was greeted with international condemnation, but apart from the continued trade boycott initiated by the United States in July 1978, verbal condemnation was not accompanied by action. In September 1978, Amin banned nearly all Christian Church activities for their subversiveness. By early 1978 Amin's circle of close associates had shrunk significantly — the result of defections and executions. Because of his violent temper as well as his erratic and unpredictable behaviour, it was increasingly risky to be too close to Amin, as his vice president and formerly trusted associate, General Mustafa Adrisi, discovered. When Adrisi was injured in a suspicious auto accident, troops loyal to him became restive. The once reliable Malire Mechanized Regiment mutinied, as did other units.\n\nIn October 1978, Amin sent troops still loyal to him against the mutineers, some of whom fled across the Tanzanian border. Amin then claimed that Tanzanian President Nyerere, his perennial enemy, had been at the root of his troubles. Amin accused Nyerere of waging war against Uganda, and, hoping to divert attention from his internal troubles and rally Uganda against the foreign adversary, Amin invaded Tanzanian territory and formally annexed a section across the Kagera River boundary on 1 November 1978.\n\nDeclaring a formal state of war against Uganda, Nyerere mobilized his citizen army reserves and counter-attacked, joined by Ugandan exiles united as the Uganda National Liberation Army (UNLA). The Ugandan Army retreated steadily, expending much of its energy by looting along the way. Libya's Gaddafi sent 3,000 troops to aid Amin, but the Libyans soon found themselves on the front line, while behind them Ugandan Army units were using supply trucks to carry their newly plundered wealth in the opposite direction. Tanzania and the UNLA took Kampala on 11 April 1979, and Amin fled by air, first to Libya and later to a permanent exile at Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Though pro-Amin forces were left scattered and disjointed by the seizure of the capital, combat operations in the country continued until 3 June, when Tanzanian forces reached the Sudanese border and eliminated the last resistance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6076316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6076316", "title": "Hwan-guk", "text": "Hwan-guk\n\nThe hypothetical state of Hwanguk (환국, 桓國) is the first mythical state of Korea described in Hwandan Gogi. According to Hwandan Gogi, Hwanguk existed long before Gojoseon. However, mainstream Korean historians reject the existence of Hwanguk for lack of credible evidence.\n\nIn some editions of Samguk Yusa, one of the oldest surviving Korean history books, the name Hwanin (桓因), the mythical grandfather of Gojoseon's founder Dangun, appears as if it is instead written \"Hwanguk\" (桓國), which would mean \"The Hwan nation.\" Some people argue that this is an evidence that the original manuscript of Samguk Yusa wrote \"Hwanguk\" instead of \"Hwanin.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "34148927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34148927", "title": "Johann Gustav Gottlieb Büsching", "text": "Johann Gustav Gottlieb Büsching\n\nJohann Gustav Gottlieb Büsching (19 September 1783 – 4 May 1829) was a German antiquary. His knowledge of subjects pertaining to Germany in the Middle Ages was notable.\n\nHe was born in Berlin, the son of Anton Friedrich Büsching, a geographer and educator. He studied at the universities of Erlangen and Halle, was appointed royal archivist at Breslau in 1811, and in 1817 an associate professor of archaeology at the University of Breslau.\n\n"}
{"id": "1370366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1370366", "title": "Justin McCarthy (1830–1912)", "text": "Justin McCarthy (1830–1912)\n\nJustin McCarthy (22 November 1830 – 24 April 1912) was an Irish nationalist and Liberal historian, novelist and politician. He was a Member of Parliament (MP) from 1879 to 1900, taking his seat in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.\n\nMcCarthy was born in Cork City, Cork, and was educated there. He began his career as a journalist, aged 18, in Cork. From 1853 to 1859 he was in Liverpool, on the staff of the \"Northern Daily Times\". In March 1855, he married Charlotte Ailman. In 1860 he moved to London, as parliamentary reporter to \"The Morning Star\", of which he became editor in 1864. He gave up his post in 1868, and, after a lecturing tour in the United States, joined the staff of the \"Daily News\" as leader-writer in 1870. In this capacity he became one of the most useful and respected upholders of the liberal politics of the time. He lectured again in America in 1870–71, and again in 1886–87. \n\nMcCarthy was first elected to Parliament at a by-election on 4 April 1879, when he was returned unopposed as a Home Rule League MP for County Longford. He was re-elected unopposed as a Parnellite Home Ruler in 1880, and when the two-seat Longford constituency was split into two divisions under the Redistribution of Seats Act, he was elected as an Irish Parliamentary Party member for the new single-seat Northern division of Longford. His sole opponent, a Conservative, won only 6% of the votes.\n\nAt the 1886 general election, he was returned unopposed in North Longford, but had also stood in Londonderry City, where he was declared to have lost to the Unionist candidate by the narrow margin of 1778 votes to 1781. However, the result was later overturned on peition, and McCarthy opted to sit for Derry City. During the divorce controversy surrounding Charles Stewart Parnell in November 1890, the British Prime Minister Gladstone expressed a warning, given to Justin McCarthy as intermediary, that if Parnell retained leadership of the Irish Parliamentary Party it would mean the loss of the next election, the end of their alliance and Home Rule. When the annual party leadership election meeting was called later that month, this threat was somehow not conveyed to the members, who re-elected Parnell leader of the Party. \n\nAfter a further historical meeting of the Irish Party MPs early December, Parnell refused to retire, and the Party divided. McCarthy became chairman of the Anti-Parnellite group, or the Irish National Federation for a year in 1891–1892; but his nationalism was of a temperate and orderly kind, and though his personal distinction singled him out for the chairmanship during the party dissensions of this period, he was in no active sense the political leader. \n\nAt the 1892 general election, McCarthy again stood both in North Longford and in Derry City. In each seat there was a two-way contest between the Anti-Parnellite McCarthy and a Unionist candidate, but the narrow Unionist victory in Derry (by 1986 votes to 1960) was not overturned, and McCarthy sat for North Longford, where he had won over 93% of the votes. He was returned unopposed for North Longford in 1895, and stood down from Parliament at the 1900 general election.\n\nIt has been claimed that McCarthy's true vocation was literature. His earliest publications were novels, some of which, such as \"A Fair Saxon\" (1873), \"Dear Lady Disdain\" (1875), \"Miss Misanthrope\" (1878), \"Donna Quixote\" (1879), attained considerable popularity. His most important work is his \"History of Our Own Times\" (vols. i.iv., 1879–1880; vol. v., 1897), which treats of the period between Queen Victoria's accession and her Diamond Jubilee. He began a \"History of the Four Georges\" (1884–1901); the latter half was written by his son, Justin Huntly McCarthy. \n\nHe also collaborated on three novels with Rosa Campbell Praed: \"The Right Honourable\" (1886), \"The Rebel Rose\" (issued anonymously in 1888 but appeared in their joint names in two later editions under the title, \"The Rival Princess\"), and \"The Ladies' Gallery\" (1888). They also collaborated on \"The Grey River\", a book on the Thames, which was illustrated with etchings by Mortimer Menpes. He wrote \"The Story of Gladstone\" (1904), a somewhat uncritical biography of William Ewart Gladstone. \n\nMcCarthy married in 1855, they had a son Justin Huntly McCarthy born in 1859 who also became a Member of Parliament, and they had a daughter Charlotte born in 1872. McCarthy died in Folkestone, Kent, England on 24 April 1912, aged 81.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1183067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183067", "title": "Karyaku", "text": "Karyaku\n\n, also romanized as Kareki, was a after \"Shōchū\" and before \"Gentoku.\" This period spanned the years from April 1326 through August 1329. The reigning Emperor was .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52818179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52818179", "title": "Khirbat Faynan", "text": "Khirbat Faynan\n\nKhirbat Faynan, also known as Phaino, is an archaeological site in Wadi Faynan, southern Jordan. Located at the confluence of Wadi Dana and Wadi Ghuwayr, the settlement was occupied from the early Bronze Age and has been identified with the biblical Punon, one of the stations of the Exodus. In the Roman-Byzantine period, it was the centre of the area's extensive copper mining complex, the largest in the Southern Levant.\n"}
{"id": "19352034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19352034", "title": "Konrad Bethmann", "text": "Konrad Bethmann\n\nKonrad Bethmann or Conrad Bethmann (1652–1701) was a German administrator and entrepreneur serving secular and ecclesiastical authorities.\n\nHe was born in Goslar as the seventh child of the merchant \"Andreas Bethmann\", four years after the Peace of Westphalia ended the Thirty Years' War. Much of Germany then was a patchwork of small to medium-sized jurisdictions. While this factor impeded development towards a nation-state, it ensured plentiful opportunities for ambitious bureaucrats and entrepreneurs.\n\nAfter leaving his hometown, he first became Münzwardein in Dömitz (Mecklenburg), then was appointed in 1683 Münzmeister to the Princess of Nassau-Holzappel in Cramberg on the Lahn river, followed by his appointment in 1687 as \"Münzmeister\" (Master of the Mint) to the Teutonic Knights in Friedberg, and in 1692 as \"Münzmeister\" for the Archbishopric/Electorate of Mainz in Aschaffenburg.\n\nAmong the oldest items pertaining to the Bethmann family in the (online) archives of the city of Frankfurt is the file of a criminal complaint brought by Konrad in 1685 while he was in the employ of the House of Nassau. Under the rubric \"Jew \"v.\" Out-of-towner\", the archive summarizes the case as follows: Conrad Bethmann, master of the mint for the Princely House of Nassau-Schaumburg, \"versus\" Mencke and Abraham zum Hecht (father and son), for theft of Schaumburg hellers in Schwalbach near Königstein and resale of stolen property. Defendants claim to have acquired the stolen coins in good faith. Arrest of Abraham, release on posting of 304  Reichsthalers bond. Out-of-court settlement of Abraham with bursars of Nassau-Schaumburg.\nContains: Medical opinion on state of health of arrestee Abraham zum Hecht; Legal opinion of the jurists.\n\nHe bequeathed a substantial fortune on his widow Anna Elisabeth (1654–1727).\n\nAs a Protestant, Anna Elisabeth and her children left the Archbishopric behind for Lutheran Frankfurt am Main; there she found it easier to comply with her religious obligations and benefited from the presence of relatives. Three of Konrad and Anna Elisabeth's daughters married citizens of Frankfurt. Their son Simon Moritz Bethmann (1687–1725) was appointed an \"Amtmann\" (\"chief administrator\") in Bergnassau on the river Lahn.\n\nAnother son lies buried in the St. Lazarus cemetery of Regensburg. The inscription on his tombstone reads:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21264572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21264572", "title": "Lancashire Loom", "text": "Lancashire Loom\n\nThe Lancashire Loom was a semi-automatic power loom invented by James Bullough and William Kenworthy in 1842. Although it is self-acting, it has to be stopped to recharge empty shuttles. It was the mainstay of the Lancashire cotton industry for a century.\n\nJohn Bullough (1800–68) was from Accrington, often described as a simple-minded Westhoughton weaver. Originally a handloom weaver, unlike others of his trade Bullough embraced new developments such as Edmund Cartwright's power loom (1785). While colleagues were busy rejecting new devices such as in the power-loom riots that broke out in Lancashire in 1826, Bullough improved his own loom by inventing various components, including the \"self-acting temple\" that kept the woven cloth at its correct width, and a loose reed that allowed the lathe to back away on encountering a shuttle trapped in the warp. Bullough also invented a simple but effective warning device which rang a bell every time a warp thread broke on his loom. Bullough moved to Blackburn and worked with William Kenworthy at Brookhouse Mills, with whom he applied his inventions to develop an improved power loom that later became known as the \"Lancashire Loom\". He was forced to quit Blackburn, for fear of angry handloom weavers. He later settled in Accrington to form Howard & Bullough in partnership with John Howard at Globe Works, alongside the Leeds-Liverpool Canal in Accrington. Here he invented the slasher, which founded the company's success. He was one of the country's largest manufacturers. At the height of the business the Globe works employed almost 6000 workers and covered . 75% of production was exported.\n\nHoward and Bullough became part of the Textile Machinery Makers Limited group, which were bought out by Platt, and in 1991 the company name changed to Platt Saco Lowell. The Globe works closed in 1993. \nFrom 1830 there had been a series of incremental improvements to the basic Roberts Loom.\nThere now appear a series of useful improvements that are contained in patents for useless devices\n\nAt this point the loom has become fully automatic, this is the Kenworthy and Bullough Lancashire Loom. The Cartwight loom weaver could work one loom at 120–130 picks per minute- with a Kenworthy and Bullough's Lancashire Loom, a weaver can run up to six looms working at 220–260 picks per minute- thus giving 12 times more throughput. The power loom is now referred to as \"a perfect machine\", it produced textile of a better quality than the hand weaver for less cost. An economic success.\nOther improvements were the \n\nThe three primary movements of a loom are shedding, picking, and beating-up. \n\nThe principal advantage of the Lancashire loom was that it was semi-automatic, when a warp thread broke the weaver was notified. When the shuttle ran out of thread, the machine stopped. An operative thus could work 4 or more looms whereas previously they could only work a single loom. Indeed, the term \"A Four Loom Weaver\" was used to describe the operatives. Labour cost was quartered. In some mills an operative would operate 6 or even 8 looms, although that was governed by the thread being used. By 1900, the loom was challenged by the Northrop Loom, which was fully automatic and could be worked in larger numbers. The Northrop was suitable for coarse thread but for fine cotton, the Lancashire loom was still preferred. By 1914, Northop looms made up 40% of looms in American mills, but in the United Kingdom labour costs were not as significant and they only supplied 2% of the British market.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "153182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153182", "title": "Leotard", "text": "Leotard\n\nA leotard () is a unisex skin-tight one-piece garment that covers the body from the crotch to the shoulder. The garment was first made famous by the French acrobatic performer Jules Léotard (1838–1870). There are sleeveless, short-sleeved and long-sleeved leotards. A variation is the unitard, which also covers the legs. \n\nLeotards are worn by acrobats, gymnasts, dancers, figure skaters, athletes, actors, wrestlers, and circus performers both as practice garments and performance costumes. They are often worn together with ballet skirts on top and tights or sometimes bike shorts as underwear. As a casual garment, a leotard can be worn with a belt; it can also be worn under overalls or short skirts.\n\nLeotards are entered by stepping into the legs and pulling the sleeves over the shoulders. Scoop-necked leotards have wide neck openings and are held in place by the elasticity of the garment. Others are crew necked or polo necked and close at the back of the neck with a zipper or snaps.\n\nLeotards are used for a variety of purposes, including yoga, cardiovascular exercise, dance (particularly for ballet and/or modern), as pajamas, for additional layered warmth under clothing, and for recreational and casual wear. They may form a part of children's dressing up and play outfits and can also be worn as a top.\n\nLeotards are commonly worn in figure skating, postwar modern dance, traditional ballet and gymnastics, especially by young children. Practice leotards are usually sleeveless. Female competition garments for gymnastics and skating are almost always long-sleeved, while male competition leotards may be sleeved or sleeveless, the latter more common in gymnastics, the former in figure skating.\n\nMany leotards are cut high enough above the legs that they expose underwear. For this reason, underwear is often omitted, or special underwear, cut high on the waist, is worn. Many dance studios forbid underwear. Gymnastics judges can deduct points for visible underwear. For example, in the movie \"Stick It\", a competitor had her score deducted for a technicality of showing a bra strap.\n\nThe first known use of the name \"leotard\" came only in 1886, many years after Léotard's death. Léotard himself called the garment a \"maillot\", which is a general French word for different types of tight-fitting shirts or sports shirts. In the early 20th century, leotards were mainly confined to circus and acrobatic shows, worn by the specialists who performed these acts.\n\nThe 1920s and 1930s saw leotards influencing the style of swimsuits, with women's one-piece swimsuits today still being similar in appearance to leotards.\n\nLeotards are worn by professional dancers such as the showgirls of Broadway. Stage use of the leotard typically coordinates the garment with stockings or tights.\n\nIn the 1950s, traditionally-styled leotards continued to be worn mainly by stage performers and circus actors, but leotards began to be used as simple and functional exercise garments, often in institutional settings like schools and in fitness training. These were almost always black and worn together with thick tights. Between 1950 and 1970, leotards remained as such in appearance until a style change in the 1970s, with more colorful leotards appearing on the scene, most often in ballet and exercise.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, leotards were extensively used as clothing for aerobic exercises, eventually displaced in the 1990s by Lycra pants similar to those used in cycling uniforms and in the 2000s they were replaced completely by trousers and leggings (tight clothing which cover the legs made of spandex and denim). It continues to be also worn by women cyclists and athletes in competitions.\n\nBy the late 1970s leotards had become common both as exercise and street wear, popularized by the disco craze, and aerobics fashion craze of the time. These leotards were produced in a variety of nylon and spandex materials, as well as the more traditional cotton previously used for uni-colored leotards and tights. Exercise videos by celebrities such as Jane Fonda also did much to popularize the garment. The dancewear company Danskin flourished during this period, producing a wide variety of leotards for both dance and street wear. Other companies, such as Gilda Marx, produced leotards during this time period then ceased production when they ceased to be in fashion. By the late 1980s leotards for exercise wear had become little more than bikini bottoms with straps over the shoulders, generally worn with cropped shirts. From the mid 1980s to mid 90s leotards were popularly worn as tops with jeans especially skinny jeans as part of everyday wear. By the mid 1990s leotards had been almost completely replaced for exercise wear by the sports bra and shorts.\n\nLeotards are a versatile garment that can either be dressed up or dressed down. The illustration of Taylor Dayne shows a stage costume that has been heavily embellished with sequins and sparkles; it is matched with striped tights and a cropped cardigan to create an extremely eye-catching costume.\n\nAmong exercise garments, leotards may be seen along with other types of garments, such as T-shirts, crop tops and tights.\n\nFor females, the standard gymnastic competition uniform is a leotard. Traditionally, competition leotards have always had long sleeves; however, half-length sleeved and sleeveless garments are now permitted under the \"Code of Points\" and have been worn by teams at the World Gymnastics Championships and other major events. Practice leotards and those worn in podium training sessions are generally sleeveless. \n\nLeotards may not ride too high on the hip or be cut too low; in rare instances, gymnasts and teams have been penalized with score deductions for their attire. \n\nIn the 1970s leotards were typically made from polyester and related fabrics. Since the 1980s, however, they have been made from lycra or spandex. Since the 1990s, leotards have become more elaborate and have employed a variety of textiles, including velvet, velour, mesh, metallic fabrics, foils and iridescent \"hologram\" fabric. They can also be decorated with rhinestones, and metallic jewels that are heat-set onto the garments and will not fall or wash off.\n\nLeotards cannot be cut above hip height or be cut past the shoulder blades, back or front. Any leotard that is somewhat see-through is also against the rules. Usage of white tights is not standard. \n\nFor competitions, male gymnasts wear two layers of clothing. The first, a singlet (or comp shirt, short for competition shirt) is a sleeveless leotard. For floor and vault, gymnasts wear a pair of very short shorts over the singlet. For their other events, they wear a pair of long pants, attached to the bottom of the feet with stirrups.\n\nMen's uniforms are usually less ornate than those of their female counterparts and are usually matte-colored, while women's uniforms generally employ metallic or iridescent fabrics. Singlets usually employ one or more of the national team colors, but there are no restrictions on design. Shorts and pants are generally a solid color, usually white, blue, red or black.\n\nOlympic gymnastics team leotards have dramatically changed from their first memorable designs. Over time, the emphasis on what leotards are intended to do has changed. Originally, the intent was to cover as much of a woman’s body as possible, while today, leotards must breathe, improve aerodynamics and seamlessly re-shape as female athletes bend, twist and contort their way through increasingly difficult routines.\n\nWhen Jules Léotard created the \"maillot\", it was intended for men. This style of leotard can be seen in early 20th century photos of the circus 'strong man'. Men's leotards evolved along with the women's style, eventually resembling it, except that the men's version had a slightly lower-cut leg opening and a lower-cut front.\n\nUnlike their female counterparts, however, men's leotards come in two styles — either with a full seated bottom or as a thong. The reason for this is apparent when worn with tights such as in ballet, where lines created by the garment underneath the tights would look unsightly. In such instances, a dance belt is also worn.\n\nLeotards are commonly worn by male dancers (particularly for ballet) and gymnasts. Leotard-like garments (often of the \"biketard\" or singlet type) are also often worn by men in sports such as rowing, wrestling, cycling and running, to maintain a tight fit and stop the upper part of the clothing running up.\n\n"}
{"id": "37367905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37367905", "title": "Lionel Gilbert", "text": "Lionel Gilbert\n\nLionel Arthur Gilbert OAM (8 December 1924 – 28 January 2015) was an Australian historian, author, curator, lecturer, and biographer, specializing in applied, natural, and local history. Born in Burwood, New South Wales, he studied at Sydney Teachers College and, beginning in 1946, worked as a teacher and later a headmaster in state schools in various locations around New South Wales until 1961. In 1963 Gilbert graduated from the University of New England with a Bachelor of Arts in History. That same year, he was appointed a lecturer and curator at the Armidale Teachers' College Museum of Education, in which capacity he served until his retirement in 1984, overseeing several expansions of the museum and establishment of a historical research centre.\n\nDuring his time with the college, Gilbert published a number of articles, papers, and books, many of them focusing on local history of New South Wales, including the state's New England area. He attained a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) in Botanical History from the University of New England in 1972. After retirement, Gilbert authored several books on Australian natural history, including biographies of three Australian botanists and a history of Sydney's Royal Botanic Gardens. In recognition of his work in education and history, he was selected as a fellow by several historical organizations. In 1995 he was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia, a Centenary Medal in 2001, and in 2007 with an honorary Doctor of Letters by the University of New England.\n\nGilbert was born in Burwood, a suburb of Sydney, on 8 December 1924. His primary and secondary education took place at Burwood Primary School, Homebush Boys High School, and Fort Street High School, receiving a leaving certificate from the latter. After graduation, Gilbert took temporary employment at Gowings Men's Store in Sydney. In 1942, he received a Teacher's Scholarship to Sydney Teachers College, where he trained for one year to be a school teacher.\n\nIn 1943, Gilbert enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force, joining 570 other Teachers College students who served in the armed forces during World War II, 68 of whom were killed during the conflict. Assigned as a radar operator in Arnhem Land, Gilbert served until 1946.\n\nAfter his discharge from the military, Gilbert was employed as secondary school teacher at Nabiac Central School from 1946 until 1954. In 1955, he was appointed Deputy Headmaster of Wauchope Primary School, and served in that capacity until 1960. That year, he accepted an appointment as headmaster of Rocky River Primary School near Uralla, New South Wales, a position he held until 1961.\n\nWhile at Nabiac, Gilbert met Margaret Roberts and the two married in 1949. Their daughter Anne was born in 1960.\n\nIn 1955, Gilbert enrolled as an external student at the University of New England in the first class of the university's external studies program. In 1961, he was appointed by the university as a Research and Information Officer in the Department of External Studies. In this capacity, Gilbert taught weekend classes on the methodology of local history for the university's adult education department throughout the northwest area of New South Wales. In 1963, he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in History with First Class Honors, submitting his thesis on the history of botanical knowledge of the eastern seaboard of Australia for the years 1788-1815.\n\nIn July 1963, Gilbert accepted an appointment as lecturer in applied history and curator with the Armidale Teachers' College (later College of Advanced Education) Museum of Education. Holding the position for 21 years, he guided expansion of the facility to better present the history of education in Australia. Between 1976 and 1980 he supervised the relocation to the museum of three historic school buildings from Armidale High School and Dumaresq Public School. In addition, Gilbert designed courses in applied and local history for internal and external students of the college, which became the Armidale College of Advanced Education in 1971.\n\nIn 1974, Gilbert successfully requested an Innovations Grant from the Schools Commission to establish a Historical Resources Centre at the college. Opened in 1976 with Gilbert as its first director, the centre's goal was to provide education on the history of New England to primary, secondary, tertiary, and postgraduate students, and community groups.\n\nGilbert recalled in 2008 that between 1975 and 1978, 5,758 primary or secondary pupils toured the museum on field trips. A further 1,653 adults visited during that time to conduct historical or genealogical research at the museum or the Historical Resources Centre. In 1981 the Museums Association of Australia recognised the museum with a certificate of merit for its, \"authenticity and detail in building, display and education.\"\n\nIn 1972, Gilbert was named chair of the school's newly formed Department of History. He attained the position of Acting Deputy Principal for the college before retiring in June 1984.\n\nIn 1967, Gilbert assisted the National Trust of Australia and the Australian National University's Department of Adult Education with a series of lectures and exhibits on local history of the New England area. Held in Armidale, the series helped establish a local chapter of the National Trust and the subsequent preservation of several historical colonial buildings in the area.\n\nWhile at the college, Gilbert pursued post-graduate studies at New England and received a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) in Botanical History in 1972, with his thesis titled \"Botanical investigation of New South Wales, 1811-1880\". Also in 1972, he was awarded a Churchill Fellowship to the U.K. for four weeks to study how museums in the U.K. contributed to general education.\n\nIn 1962, Gilbert succeeded Eric Dunlop as Honorary Curator of the Armidale City Council's Folk Museum, serving in the position until 1982. When the museum reached capacity in its original facility, he joined the Armidale town clerk in a successful petition to the Department of Education for New South Wales to relocate the museum into the nearby Hillgrove School. Opened in 1977, the new facility is known as the Museum of Rural Life and Industry. Beginning in 1975, he served on the New South Wales State Archives Authority.\n\nDuring his career at the college, Gilbert authored or co-authored a number of papers and books, particularly on Australian biographical, genealogical, and local history. In 1974, Gilbert joined William Patrick Driscoll, Alan Sutherland, and David Rose in publishing \"History Around Us: An Enquiry Approach to Local History\", a book on historical research targeted at younger readers. The book was re-issued in 1984. In 1978, Gilbert and co-author Elwyn Sydney Elphick wrote a book titled of \"Forty-three and Seven: A Short Illustrated History of the First Fifty Years of Teacher Education in Armidale : Armidale Teachers' College, 1928-1971 and Armidale College of Advanced Education 1971-1978\" to commemorate the school's 50-year jubilee celebration. In 1980, two books by Gilbert were published: \"A Grave Look at History: Glimpses of a Vanishing Form of Folk Art\" and \"New England from Old Photographs\". The former studied graveyard monuments and was representative of Gilbert's lifelong interest in studying and documenting epitaphs. The latter book focused on local history of New South Wales. From 1966, he contributed a series of articles to the \"Australian Dictionary of Biography\".\n\nGilbert continued to write in retirement, often focusing on natural history. In 1985, 1992, and 2001, he respectively authored books on botanists William Woolls, Herman Rupp, and Joseph Maiden. In 1986, his book on the history of Sydney's Royal Botanic Gardens was published. Two years after its publication, Gilbert was appointed an Honorary Research Associate of the gardens. He was also a patron of the Australian National Museum of Education and a member of Australia's National Trust.\n\nGilbert was named a Fellow of the Society of Australian Genealogists in 1955, an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Australian Historical Society in 1997, and a Fellow of the Federation of Australian Historical Societies in 2007. On 12 June 1995 he was recognised with the Medal of the Order of Australia (OAM), \"In recognition of service to the community as a researcher and curator of local history in the New England region.\" On 1 January 2001 he was awarded the Centenary Medal, \"For service to the community through education and local history.\" The University of New England presented Gilbert with an honorary Doctor of Letters (Hon. D. Litt.) in 2008. Also in 2008, he contributed a historical essay on the Auchinleck-Ross family of New England to the biographical compendium, \"New England Lives III\". Gilbert served as president of the Armidale and District Historical Society and has been honored with Freedom of the City of Armidale.\n\nGilbert and his wife, Margaret, resided in Armidale, New South Wales from 1961. He died in Armidale on 28 January 2015 and was survived by his wife, daughter Anne, son-in-law Tony Bennett, and grandson Alexei.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56916315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56916315", "title": "List of Texas Revolution monuments and memorials", "text": "List of Texas Revolution monuments and memorials\n\nThis is a list of monuments and memorials that were established as public displays and symbols of the Texas Revolution of 1835-1836 and its veterans.\n\n\nIn April 2018, the \"Monuments and Buildings of the Texas Centennial MPS\" document was registered, which included multiple separate properties simultaneously listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Some of these may commemorate the Texas Revolution. These are:\n\n\n\nThere are a number of memorials to Sam Houston, known mostly for his leadership in the Texas Revolution, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "34710472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34710472", "title": "Louis Mink", "text": "Louis Mink\n\nLouis O. Mink Jr. (September 3, 1921 – January 19, 1983) was a philosopher of history whose works challenged early philosopher of history R. G. Collingwood and were part of a postmodern dialogue on history and historical narrative with other philosophers of history, like Hayden White and Georg Lukács. Mink and White were responsible for what would later be called the \"linguistic turn\" in philosophy of history.\n\nMink received his bachelor's degree from Hiram College, then served in the United States Army during World War II. After the war he received a masters and doctorate from Yale. He became a member of the faculty at Wesleyan University in 1952 and remained in the department until he died of a heart attack on January 19, 1983. While at Wesleyan he was chair of the philosophy department from 1967 to 1976, the Kenan Professor of Humanities and director of the Center for Humanities. He had a wife named Helen Patterson, two sons and a daughter.\n\nMink's largest contribution to history and philosophy of history was to emphasize the need for history to think of its published narratives as very similar to other narrative forms, such as fiction. Mink's also asserts that thinking about history as \"a true representation of the past\" gives rise to a great deal of assumptions amongst historians that pose serious problems for history by misrepresenting it and its subject matter. Mink was also important in studying James Joyce's fiction; most notably, his \"A Finnegans Wake Gazetteer\" (1978) documents all the place names in Joyce's \"Finnegans Wake\". \n\nThe interest in Joyce was not tangential. Finnegans Wake had embedded in it a cyclical structure of time and history, influenced by Giambattista Vico's (1668–1744) \"\"La Scienza Nuova\" (The New Science)\". Mink also ran seminars on Finnegans Wake that drew both faculty and students in interactive examinations of Joyce's work and was known for both the range of his knowledge and his wit, which could be self-deprecating. When a student informed that he was dropping out of the seminar because he was not ready for \"Finnegans Wake\", Mink replied, \"Brian, if you are ever ready for Finnegans Wake,\" pausing to draw on his pipe, \"it is a pretty good indication that you have wasted your life.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38769878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38769878", "title": "Marilyn Yalom", "text": "Marilyn Yalom\n\nMarilyn Yalom (born 1932) is a feminist author and historian. She is a senior scholar at the Clayman Institute for Gender Research at Stanford University, and a former professor of French. She served as the institute's director from 1984 to 1985.\n\nMarilyn Yalom has an extensive list of scholarly publications, including \"Blood Sisters\" (1993), \"A History of the Breast\" (1997), \"A History of the Wife\" (2001), \"Birth of the Chess Queen\" (2004), \"The American Resting Place\" (2008) with photos by Reid Yalom, and \"How the French Invented Love\" (2012).\n\nHer books have been translated into 20 languages.\n\nIn addition to her text, The American Resting Place contains a portfolio of 64 black and white art photos taken by her son Reid Yalom. Marilyn Yalom was presented with a Certificate of Recognition from the California State Assembly “honoring extraordinary leadership in the literary arts and continued commitment to ensuring the quality of reading” through her book The American Resting Place: Four Hundred Years of History, thereby benefiting the people of the City and County of San Francisco and the State of California.”\n\nHer most recent book, How the French Invented Love, was short-listed for the Phi Beta Kappa Gauss literary award and for the American Library in Paris book award, in 2013.\n\nYalom was decorated by the French government as an Officier des Palmes Academiques in 1991, and she received an Alumnae Achievement Award from Wellesley College in 2013.\n\nShe is married to the psychiatrist and author Irvin Yalom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10293988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10293988", "title": "Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar People", "text": "Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar People\n\nThe Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar People (, \"Qırımtatar Milliy Meclisi\"; , \"Medzhlis Krims'kotatars'koho Narodu\"; , \"Medzhlis Krimskotatarskogo Naroda\") is the single highest executive-representative body of the Crimean Tatars in period between sessions of the Qurultay of the Crimean Tatar People.\n\nThe Mejlis is a member institution of the Platform of European Memory and Conscience.\n\nThe Mejlis was outlawed by Russia in 2016 (for \"the use of propaganda of aggression and hatred towards Russia, inciting ethnic nationalism and extremism in society\") and listed as an extremist organization after Russia had gained full control of Crimea after the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea.\n\nThe current Mejlis was founded in 1991, to act as a representative body for the Crimean Tatars which could address grievances to the Ukrainian central government, the Crimean government, and international bodies. In its activities Mejlis is subordinated to Qurultai, guided by its decisions, current regulations, the Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar people statute, norms of international law and legislative acts of Ukraine not contradicting with these standards. The main goal of the Mejlis is the liquidation of consequences of genocide conducted by the Soviet state in regard to the Crimean Tatars (Surgun of 1944), reinstatement of national and political rights of the Crimean Tatar people and realization of their rights on the free national state self-determination on its national territory. Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar people consists of 33 members including the Mejlis chair person. Simferopol is the location of Mejlis.\n\nOn June 30, 1991, the Mejlis declared its sovereignty over the Crimean Tatars, and adopted the Crimean Tatar's national anthem and national flag. Also, the Crimean Tatars elected 14 Crimean Tatar Deputies to the Verkhovna Rada of Crimea. These 14 deputies were the first Crimean Tatar representatives in the Crimean Parliament in over 50 years.\n\nDuring the 1998 parliamentary elections members of the Mejlis joined the Rukh election list.\n\nDuring the 2002, 2006, and 2007 parliamentary elections, members of the Mejlis joined the Our Ukraine election list.\n\nOn April 6, 2010, several pro-Russian Crimean political leaders in Crimea demanded the disbanding and banning of the Mejlis and all other forms of political representation for the Crimean Tatars (including the Kurultai), claiming that they were \"organized criminal groups and said their activities are unconstitutional.\" Crimean Tatar organizations urged President Viktor Yanukovych to \"protect Crimea's indigenous people from discrimination\".\n\nDuring the 2012 parliamentary elections, members of the Mejlis joined the All-Ukrainian Union \"Fatherland\" election list. Since 2012, Mejlis is member of the Platform of European Memory and Conscience.\n\nThe status of Mejlis was legalized by the Presidential decree of May 18, 1999 \"About the council of representatives of Crimean Tatar people\". In 2010, the President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych reformed the council cutting it almost in half and establishing control over it by appointing its members by the President of Ukraine.\n\nFrom its foundation in 1991 until 2013 its chairman was Mustafa Abdülcemil Qırımoğlu (also known as Mustafa Dzhemilev). Since October 2013 the chairman is Refat Chubarov. The Mejlis's deputy leader is Ilmi Umerov.\n\nOn 20 March 2014, two days after the annexation of Crimea by Russia, the Ukrainian parliament officially and explicitly recognized the Mejlis as the executive body of the Qurultay of the Crimean Tatar People, while the Qurultay was recognized as the higher representative body of the Crimean Tatar people. The Ukrainian parliament also recognized the Crimean Tatars as indigenous people of Ukraine.\n\nIn March 2014, following the ousting of the Ukrainian president in the 2014 Ukrainian revolution and the subsequent takeover of Crimea by pro-Russian separatists and Russian special forces, local authorities held a referendum on \"reunification with Russia\", the official result of which was a large majority in support. The Mejlis boycotted the referendum. Russia then officially annexed Crimea late March 2014. (Ukraine does not recognise the annexation and, backed by most of the international community, continues to assert its right over the peninsula.) After the annexation most Mejlis members did not cooperated with the new Russian-Crimean authorities. Of the six members that did one became deputy Crimean parliament speaker and another head of the Crimean state committee for interethnic relations and deported peoples.\n\nIn May 2014, Crimean Tatar leader Mustafa Dzhemilev was prevented from entering Crimea, resulting in Crimean Tatars organizing large protests and a failed attempt to help Dzhemilev enter Crimea after Crimean Tatars broke through a border checkpoint. In response, Crimean authorities accused the Mejlis of extremist activity regarding \"illegal\" gatherings marked by \"violence and threats of violence\", warning that the Mejlis could be dissolved and outlawed across Russia.\n\nOn 3 July 2014 it was announced that for the first time Mejlis would hold its session outside of Crimea in Henichesk.\n\nRussian law enforcement seized the Mejlis building in Simferopol on 20 September 2014.\n\nThe Mejlis was labeled an extremist organisation by Russian authorities in Crimea and banned by the Russian-appointed supreme court there on 26 April 2016. According to Regional Prosecutor General Natalia Poklonskaya, it was banned because its leaders had sought to destabilise Crimea since the 2014 annexation of Crimea by Russia through the use of \"propaganda of aggression and hatred towards Russia, inciting ethnic nationalism and extremism in society\". The Mejlis was also said to be responsible for stopping all cargo traffic between (mainland) Ukraine and Crimea in the autumn of 2015 and a late November series of explosions that damaged voltage power lines leading to a massive Crimean power outage. The Mejlis denied involvement in these events. (Also on 26 April 2016) Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights Nils Muižnieks urged the court to reverse the ban since he believed \"Equating (the Mejlis) with extremism paves the way for stigmatisation and discrimination of a significant part of the Crimean Tatar community and sends a negative message to that community as a whole\". Exiled in mainland Ukraine, Chairman of the Mejlis Refat Chubarov stated the court's decision was unjustifiable and that \"The occupiers in Crimea are doing everything to crush Crimean Tatars and force everyone to be silent\". Amnesty International stated the ban \"demolishes one of the few remaining rights of a minority that Russia must protect instead of persecute\". Deputy Chairman of the Mejlis Nariman Dzhelal vowed that the organization would try to continue its work despite the ban, saying \"it will continue working in Ukraine and other countries\".\n\nDeputy head of the Mejlis Ilmi Umerov was on 7 September 2016 released after a three weeks' involuntary detention for tests of his \"mental capacity\" in a psychiatric hospital in Simferopol (doctors ruled him entirely sane) after stating on TV that Crimea should be returned to Ukraine. Umerov was then charged with calling for Russia's borders to be changed, a charge punishable up to five years in jail.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Russia upheld the ban on 29 September 2016. The Mejlis is contesting this ban in the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nOn 1 October 2016 (Russian-Crimean government) Head of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov explained that Natalia Poklonskaya accused Mejlis in energy blockade through diversion. The same day Aksyonov's Vice-Prime Minister Dmitry Polonsky claimed that Mejlis is a puppet organization of the United States Department of State.\n\nBy late December 2016 nine Mejlis members were in mainland Ukraine, in Russia, or in self-imposed exile. One was imprisoned, and more than 10 had been charged with criminal and administrative offences in Crimea.\n\nIn April 2017 the UN International Court of Justice made an interim order against the Russian Federation to allow Crimean Tatar Mejlis activities, and in July 2018 reminded the RF of its legal obligation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55094334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55094334", "title": "Michael Borgolte", "text": "Michael Borgolte\n\nMichael Borgolte (born 1948) is a German Historian. Besides the history of medieval endowments he studies mainly the Comparative history of Europe and the Global history of the Middle Ages.\n\nBorgolte was educated at the University of Münster, where he gained his doctorate in 1975. In 1981 he qualified as a professor at the University of Freiburg, where he was assistant to the palaeographer Johanne Authenrieth from 1975 onwards. in 1991 he was one of the first professors newly appointed to Humboldt-University after the Berlin Wall came down. He held the chair for Medieval History until 2018. Since 2007 Borgolte is a member of the Berlin-Brandenburgische Akademie der Wissenschaften and as such delegated to the scientific board of the Monumenta Germaniae Historica. Together with Bernd Schneidmüller he was coordinator of the research program SPP 1173 \"Integration und Desintegration der Kulturen im europäischen Mittelalter\", funded by the German Research Foundation. In 2011 he was awarded with an ERC Advanced Grant for his research program \"Foundations in Medieval Societies — Crosscultural Comparisons\". Collaborating with the Byzantinist Zachary Chitwood, the Indologist Annette Schmiedchen, the medieval historian Tillmann Lohse and others he prepared a three volume encyclopedia on this topic which promptly stimulated scholarly discussions.\n\nScheller, Benjamin (2014), \"Philosophischer Kopf und wissenschaftlicher Unternehmer: Eine Charakteristik Michael Borgoltes anstelle einer Einführung\", In: Ed. Tillmann Lohse et al. \"Europa in der Welt des Mittelalters: Ein Colloquium für und mit Michael Borgolte.\" Berlin; New York, p. 1–9 \n"}
{"id": "4278307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4278307", "title": "Monk of Malmesbury", "text": "Monk of Malmesbury\n\nThe Monk of Malmesbury is the supposed author of a chronicle among the Cottonian manuscripts in the British Museum.\n\nThe authorship is uncertain, and the work in question is said by some to be only a copy of a chronicle written by Alfred of Beverley in the twelfth century, while others claim it is almost entirely based on that of Geoffrey of Monmouth. It is a valueless compilation, describing English history from the invasion of the Saxons to the year 1129.\n\nBecause the manuscript bears the name \"Godridus de Malmesburg\", it was originally believed that it was written by Godfrey of Malmesburg, a native of Jumièges, who became Abbot of Malmesbury in 1081. Godfrey was regarded as a man of literary tastes because he founded the abbey's library, but his authorship of the manuscript was disproved, apart from its identity with Alfred of Beverley, by the fact that his death took place in or before 1107, when Edulf became the abbot. Indeed, it is likely that the signature merely indicates ownership.\n"}
{"id": "2294305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294305", "title": "Movietone sound system", "text": "Movietone sound system\n\nThe Movietone sound system is an optical sound-on-film method of recording sound for motion pictures that guarantees synchronization between sound and picture. It achieves this by recording the sound as a variable-density optical track on the same strip of film that records the pictures. The initial version was capable of a frequency response of 8500 Hz. Although sound films today use variable-area tracks, any modern motion picture theater (excluding those that have transitioned to digital cinema) can play a Movietone film without modification to the projector (though if the projector's sound unit has been fitted with red LED or laser light sources, the reproduction quality from a variable density track will be significantly impaired). Movietone was one of four motion picture sound systems under development in the U.S. during the 1920s, the others being DeForest Phonofilm, Warner Brothers' Vitaphone, and RCA Photophone, though Phonofilm was primarily an early version of Movietone.\n\nAs a student, Theodore Case became interested in the use of modulated light to carry speech, and in 1916 set up a laboratory to study the photo-electric properties of materials. He developed the \"Thalofide cell\", a sensitive photocell, which was used as part of an infra-red communication system by the U.S. Navy during, and for some years after WW1.\n\nIn 1922 Case and his assistant Earl I. Sponable turned their attention to \"talking pictures\". In that same year Case was approached by Lee de Forest who had been attempting since 1919 to create an optical soundtrack for motion picture film in a system he called \"Phonofilm\". De Forest was having little success and turned to Case for help, so from 1922 until 1925 Case and de Forest collaborated in the development of the Phonofilm system. Amongst other Case inventions Case contributed the Thalofide photocell and also the \"Aeo-light\", a light source that could be readily modulated by audio signals and was used to expose the soundtrack in sound cameras.\n\nIn 1925, however, Case ended his relationship with de Forest due in the main to de Forest's tendency to claim the entire credit for the Phonofilm system for himself despite the fact that most of the critical inventions had come from Case. Documents supporting this, including a signed letter by De Forest that states that Phonofilms are only possible because of the inventions of Case Research Lab, are located at the Case Research Lab Museum in Auburn, New York. In 1925, therefore, Case and Sponable continued the development of their own system, now called \"Movietone\".\n\nFrom 1924 onwards Sponable had turned his attention to the design of single-system cameras, in which the sound and picture are recorded on the same negative. He asked Bell & Howell to modify one of their cameras to his design, but the results were unsatisfactory. Consequently, the Wall machine shop in Syracuse, New York was asked to rebuild this camera and the results were much improved.\n\nSubsequently, many single-system 35mm cameras were produced by Wall Camera Corporation, which much later produced the three-film Cinerama cameras. Wall initially converted some Bell & Howell Design 2709 cameras to single-system, but most were Wall designed and produced. Single-system cameras were also produced by Mitchell Camera Corporation during World War II for the U.S. Army Signal Corps, although these cameras were quite rare.\n\nPartly as a result of the single system experiments, the aspect ratio of approximately 1.19:1 that is created by printing an optical soundtrack on top of the 35mm full aperture became known colloquially as the \"Movietone ratio\". It was used extensively by Hollywood and European studios (apart from those that adopted sound-on-disc) between the late 1920s and May 1932, when the Academy Ratio of 1.37:1 was introduced to restore the effective shape of the silent frame.\n\nThe 1950s brought the first 35mm kinescope camera with sound-on-film rather than separate, from Photo-Sonics, with a Davis Loop Drive mechanism built within the camera box. This camera was essential for TV network time-shifting in the years before Videotape. The sound galvanometer was made by RCA and was designed for good to excellent results when the kinescope negative was projected, thereby avoiding making a print before the delayed replay. The Davis mechanism was a Western Electric development.\n\nAfter the split with de Forest, Case adopted a revised position for the projector soundhead, which was now placed below the picture head, with a sound-picture offset of 14 ½ inches (368 mm) (which is close to the present day standard), rather than being placed above the picture head as had been the phonofilm practice. Case also adopted the 24 frames/sec speed for Movietone, bringing it in line with the speed already chosen for the Western Electric Vitaphone sound-on-disc system, and thus establishing 24 frames/sec as the standard speed for all sound films, whether sound-on-disc or sound-on-film. With a few exceptions, this has remained the standard speed for professional sound films ever since.\n\nAt this point, the Movietone system was adopted by the AMPAS as the Academy's standard. It and the later RCA Photophone system were interchangeable in most respects. See RCA Photophone for technical details and lists of the industry adopters.\n\nMovietone entered commercial use when William Fox of the Fox Film Corporation bought the entire system including the patents in July 1926. Although Fox owned the Case patents, the work of Freeman Harrison Owens, and the American rights to the German Tri-Ergon patents, the Movietone sound film system uses only the inventions of Case Research Lab.\n\nWilliam Fox hired Earl I. Sponable (1895–1977) from Case Research Lab in 1926, when he purchased the sound-on-film patents from Case. The first feature film released using the Fox Movietone system was \"Sunrise\" (1927) directed by F. W. Murnau. It was the first professionally produced feature film with an optical sound track. The sound in the film included only music, sound effects, and very few unsynchronized words. The system was used for sound acting sequences in Mother Knows Best (1928).\n\nLess than two years after purchasing the system from Case, Fox bought out all of Case's interests in the Fox-Case company. All of Fox's sound feature films were made using the Movietone system until 1931 when it was superseded by a Western Electric recording system using the light-valve invented by Edward C. Wente in 1923. However, Fox Movietone News used the system until 1939, because of the ease of transporting the single-system's sound film equipment.\n\nThe Case Research Lab sound system influenced many industry standards, such as location of the optical sound 20 frames in advance of the image it accompanies. The current \"SMPTE\" standard for 35 mm sound film is +21 frames for optical, but a 46-foot theatre reduces this to +20 frames; this was originally done partly to ensure the film runs smoothly past the sound head, but also to ensure that no Phonofilm could again be played in theaters — the Phonofilm system being incompatible with Case Research Lab specifications — and also to ease the modification of projectors already widely in use.\n\nSponable worked at the Fox Film Corporation (later 20th Century Fox) Movietone studios on 54th Street and 10th Avenue in New York City until he retired in the 1960s, eventually winning an Academy Award for his technical work on the development of CinemaScope. Sponable had many contributions to film technology during his career, including the invention of the perforated motion-picture screen that allowed placing the speakers behind it to enhance the illusion of the sound emanating directly from the film action. During his years at Fox, Sponable also served for a time as an officer of the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers. He published a concise history of sound film in the April 1947 issue of \"The SMPE Journal\" (\"The SMPTE Journal\" after 1950).\n\nThe history of Case Research Lab has long been unheralded for numerous reasons. Theodore Case died in 1944, after donating his home and laboratory to be preserved as a museum to the inventions of Case Research Lab. The museum's first director, who oversaw the museum for 50 years, put the laboratory's contents into storage and converted the building into an art studio. The Case Research Lab sound studio was located on the second floor of the estate's carriage house and that was rented to the local model train club until the early 1990s.\n\nFox was seriously injured in a July 1929 car accident, lost his company in 1930 when his loans were called in and lost the 1936 lawsuit in the U.S. Supreme Court against the film industry for violating the Tri-Ergon patents he owned. Sponable did little to establish the record of Case Research Lab inventions, other than his April 1947 article in \"The Journal of the SMPE\".\n\nIncredibly, it was also in 1947 that the Davis Loop Drive was first introduced to Western Electric licensees, including Twentieth Century-Fox (WECo RA-1231; and still made to this day by a successor company). \n\nRecently, Case Research Lab, the adjoining carriage house, and Case's home have been restored and research is ongoing with the collections of the lab that include all receipts, notebooks, correspondence, and much of the laboratory's original equipment, including the first recording device created to test the AEO light. In the collections are also letters from Thomas Edison, an original copy of the Tri-Ergon patents, and an internal document from Fox Films written in the 1930s. This latter document says that once it became public knowledge that Sponable perfected the variable-area system of sound-on-film at the Fox Studios, that system became the standard and replaced the inventions of Case Research Lab.\n\nA number of films owned by Case Research Lab and Museum and restored by George Eastman House in Rochester, New York, are in the collections of both of those institutions. The Case Research Lab and Museum has additional sound-film footage of Theodore Case, and recently discovered copies of the same films at the Eastman House, are in a much higher state of preservation. Movietone News films are in the collections of 20th-Century Fox and the University of South Carolina at Columbia, including the only known footage of Earl I. Sponable talking. Sponable can also be seen in footage of the premiere of the film \"The Robe\".\n\nPhonofilms that were produced using Case Research Lab inventions are in the collections of the Library of Congress and the British Film Institute.\n\nVariable density (VD) recording systems developed from Movietone gradually lost market share to variable area (VA) ones developed from Photophone from the 1940s onwards, a process that gathered pace as VA-related patents expired. Though both methods are theoretically capable of achieving similar standards of recording, duplication and reproduction, quality control in the lab proved to be far more critical in the duplication of VD tracks than VA ones: slight errors in printer light settings and sensitometry and densitometry control will affect the signal-to-noise ratio far more on a VD track than on a VA one. For this reason archives have tended to remaster original VD tracks to VA negatives for preservation and the creation of new prints.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26140166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26140166", "title": "Mónica Pellecer Alecio", "text": "Mónica Pellecer Alecio\n\nMonica Pellecer Alecio is a Guatemalan archaeologist who in 2005 led a team that found the oldest known Maya royal tomb to date, belonging to an early Maya king (150BC). It was uncovered beneath a small pyramid at San Bartolo.\n"}
{"id": "7824450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7824450", "title": "National Museum of Ethnology (Netherlands)", "text": "National Museum of Ethnology (Netherlands)\n\nThe National Museum of Ethnology is a museum about ethnology in the Netherlands is located in the university city of Leiden.\n\nThe institution which was at first called the \"Museum Japonicum\". It was the first museum in Europe which was designed to demonstrate that collecting the artefacts of man could mean more than the mere accumulation of curiosities. From the very outset, this innovative institution incorporated at least four basic principles: collecting, scientific research, presentation to the public, and educational guidance.\n\nIn 1816 the \"Koninklijk Kabinet van Zeldzaamheden\" was formed in the Hague as an attempt to start a museum of scientific artifacts from around the world, based on royal collections and a large group of Chinese artifacts from private collections. Thanks to the early efforts of this organization, in the early 1830s, when Philipp Franz Balthasar von Siebold abandoned the political turmoil of revolutionary Belgium for the relative calm of the University of Leiden, he was inspired by the first museum director R.P. van de Kasteele to collect Japanese objects for his collection. The resulting gift of about 5,000 objects became the heart the new museum's holdings. Siebold's home in Leiden—and the objects he brought to Europe after eight years in Japan—was opened to the public in the early 1830s (today his collection is preserved in the SieboldHuis). The Dutch crown had previously purchased the smaller collections of Jan Cock Blomhoff in 1826 and Johannes Gerhard Frederik van Overmeer Fischer in 1832. These which were merged with what Siebold bestowed on King William I; and they became crucial elements in the creation of what became the \"Museum voor Volkenkunde\", or Ethnographic Museum in Leiden in 1837. This institution would later evolve into the National Museum of Ethnology.\n\nIn 1843, Siebold also encouraged other Europeans to create ethnographic institutions similar to what was developing in Leiden. He urged \"the importance of their creation in European states possessing colonies because these institutions could become a means for understanding the subject peoples and of awakening the interest of the public and of merchants -- all of which are necessary conditions for a lucrative trade which benefits all.\"\n\nThe collection today contains a large number of objects from Africa, China, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Latin America, North America, Oceania, and Asia. In developing the collection, the museum has devoted significant attention to acquiring material which illustrates the historical development of world cultures; but the genesis of the museum's holdings began with material garnered during the years Japan was officially closed except for one small island in Nagasaki harbor -- Dejima.\n\nAs \"Opperhoofd\" (or chief trader) for the Dutch East India Company (\"Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie\" or \"VOC\") at Dejima island in Nagasaki harbor from 1817 through 1823, Jan Cock Blomhoff was unique. Despite the Japanese \"closed door\" policy for Westerners (\"sakoku\"), he did transport his wife, Titia, and children to join him. The Japanese predictably responded by ejecting both Blomhoff and his family; but that experience did broaden the range of household goods and other objects he accumulated across the span of his stay in Japan.\n\nJohannes Gerhard Frederik van Overmeer Fischer began as a clerk at Dejima and he was later promoted to \"Package House Master\" (\"pakhuismeester\"). During the span of his stay in Japan, Fisher's access to Japanese culture was limited; but within his universe of contacts, he was able to amass a considerable collection of \"ordinary\" objects which were plausbily overlooked by others. This material was brought back to the Netherlands in 1829. In 1833, he published \"Bijdrage tot de kennis van het Japansche rijk\" (\"Contribution to the knowledge of the Japanese State\").\n\nAs a physician practicing Western medicine in Nagasaki (1823-1829), Philipp Franz von Siebold received payment in kind with a variety of objects and artifacts which would later gain unanticipated scholarly attention in Europe. These everyday objects later became the basis of his large ethnographic collection, which consisted of everyday household goods, woodblock prints, tools and hand-crafted objects used by the Japanese people in the late Edo period. Further information relating to this material was published in Siebold's \"Nippon\". His professional interest was especially drawn to implements used in the practice of traditional Japanese medicine. As of 2005, a separate museum located in one of Siebold's former houses, the SieboldHuis, houses part of the collection.\n\nThe Leiden plate is a Maya belt plaque and important historical artifact from Guatemala. It is depicted on the reverse of a one Guatemalan quetzal banknote.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26809465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26809465", "title": "Orakzai and Kurram offensive", "text": "Orakzai and Kurram offensive\n\nThe Orakzai and Kurram offensive also known as \"Operation Khwakh Ba De Sham\" () is a Pakistani military operation against the Tehrik-i-Taliban in the Orakzai Agency and Kurram Agency area of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas that began on 23 March 2010. It is part of the ongoing War in North-West Pakistan.\n\nOn 23 March 2010 the Pakistani army has launched a military operation to clear insurgents from Orakzai.\"This will finish in a couple of months. We'll take care of all of them. We're just waiting for the major operations — like Orakzai and North Waziristan — to finish, to spare us the troops to start changing our methodology. Instead of kinetic, concentrated operations, we start search and cordon and sting operations, for which actually you need more boots on the ground,\" said Tariq Khan. On 1 April 2010 security forces claimed to have taken complete control of the Lower Orakzai Agency. On 12 April security forces claimed to have extended their control over more areas of Orakzai Agency and were advancing to Upper Orakzai Agency. Militants began fleeing to parts of Tirah Valley which border Khyber Agency.\n\nOn 5 May operations in Lower Orakzai end with 5 thousand Pakistani families returned to the area with government provided transport and security to settle these refugees back into their homes. The offensive which started on 22 March ended with seven thousand troops seizing control of the area. About 400 militants were killed in Lower Orakzai and soldiers are now fighting in central Orakzai, according to the army.\n\n10 May.At least nine soldiers have been killed in clashes and about 30 insurgents were also killed in Pakistan's north-western tribal region of Orakzai. Military officials described the battle between the insurgents and the army as \"fierce\" and said that two officers were among the dead.<br>\n16 May.\"Fighter jets and helicopter gunships attacked militant sanctuaries in the villages of Dabori, Gojar and Kamer Mela in Orakzai, killing 40 suspected insurgents\", said Samiullah Khan, a senior government administrator in Orakzai.\"Troops attacked militant hide-outs in Koul village, triggering clashes that killed 18 suspected insurgents.Five soldiers and at least 25 militants were wounded in the fighting. The injured militants were taken into custody\", said Jehanzeb Khan, a local administrator. 17 May it became known that the total number of dead militants had reached 60.<br>19 May. There was another military clash between Pakistani troops and the Taliban. According to the army killed 28 insurgents and wounded 21. Also killed in the fighting two Pakistani soldiers.\n\nThe Pakistan Army has declared an end to military offensive in Orakzai after announcing it has fully cleared Orakzai of Taliban., however locals clams that while Lower Orakzai is clearned the situation in Central and Upper Orakzai has not changed much.<br>To date, Pakistani authorities plan to begin full-scale military offensive in North Waziristan. According to Pakistani authorities in North Waziristan is the Taliban leadership and al-Qaeda.\n\nAccording to the Pakistani Army, Taliban insurgents had also been cleared from the Kurram Agency. Nevertheless, clashes with insurgents still going on.\n\n13 June. At least 44 Taliban insurgents were killed by the Pakistani army in the ongoing military operation in the tribal areas of Pakistan (mainly military clashes continue in the Upper Orakzai region. and Kurram). Also, in this military clash 6 Pakistani soldiers were killed.<br>\n16 June.The insurgents kidnapped 60 people in Kurram.<br>\n20 June.Pakistani air strike killed at least 13 Taliban insurgents in the Orakzai Agency.<br>\n21–22 June. At least 4 Pakistani army soldiers and 43 Taliban insurgents were killed during two days in the Orakzai Agency tribal areas.<br>23 June. A new clash in the Orakzai Agency, killed at least 24 Taliban insurgents and 1 Pakistani paramilitary soldier. Also nine soldiers were reportedly wounded.<br>\n24 June. At least 39 Taliban insurgents were killed by the Pakistani Army in Upper Orakzai. It was reported that 1 Pakistani soldier was also apparently killed.<br>\n26 June. At least 14 Taliban insurgents were killed in the Orakzai Agency by Pakistani fighter jet.<br>\n28 June At least 12 Taliban insurgents were killed and two security men were injured in military clashes within the Upper Orakzai agency in north-western Pakistan.<br>\n29 June. At least 66 Taliban insurgents were killed and another 30 injured in airstrikes and clashes with the security forces across the country's North-West. At least 4 Pakistani soldiers were also killed. At least 10 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Army in Kurram Agency.<br>\n30 June. At least 20 Taliban insurgents were killed in the Orakzai Agency after a Pakistani airstrike.<br>\n1 July. After a military clash between two armed groups, at least 10 Taliban insurgents were killed. As said by Pakistani sources - many of the militants from Orakzai Agency emigrating into the Kurram Agency.<br>\n4 July. At least 26 Taliban insurgents were killed and many other militants were injured after Pakistani military's jets launched airstrikes within the Orakzai Agency, in north western Pakistan.<br>\n5 July. At least 22 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani fighter jets.<br>\n6 July. According to the Pakistani command: 80% of the Kurram Agency has been cleared of insurgents. In ongoing military clashes in the Kurram Agency, at least 18 Pakistani soldiers and 96 Taliban insurgents were killed.<br>\n8 July. At least 14 Taliban insurgents were killed and 10 others were wounded after the Pakistani Armed Forces launched several airstrikes within the Orakzai Agency, in north western Pakistan.<br>\n9–10 July. For two days in the Orakzai Agency, at least 27 Taliban insurgents were killed in two separate airstrikes by Pakistani fighter jets.<br>\n14 July. Pakistani troops killed at least 24 Taliban insurgents, among the dead rebels was a senior Taliban commander, Taj Gul.<br>\n16 July. At least 22 Taliban insurgents were killed and 13 others were reportedly injured during an attack on their hideouts within the Orakzai Agency tribal regions, which was conducted by Pakistani security forces. In the Kurram Agency, Pakistani Taliban fired on the convoy with civilians, killing at least 16 people.<br>\n18 July. At least 15 Taliban insurgents were killed after Pakistani military fighter jets bombarded militant positions and destroyed eight militant hideouts, in the Mamuzai district of the Orakzai Agency tribal regions.<br>\n20 July. At least 42 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani security forces in both the Kurram Agency and Orakzai Agency tribal regions, which are located near to the Pakistan-Afghanistan border. In one incident Pakistan's military aerially bombarded militant hideouts in the Upper Orakzai region, killing 20 insurgents and wounding a further 15 others. Meanwhile, within the Kurram Agency, security forces targeted Taliban hideouts in a pre-dawn assault. It was later reported that 22 insurgents were killed and 11 others were apparently injured during this operation.<br>\n21 July. At least 30 Taliban insurgents were killed by the Pakistani Army in the Orakzai Agency.<br>\n22 July. At least 3 Pakistani army soldiers and 33 Taliban insurgents were killed in bloody clashes in the Orakzai Agency.<br>\n23 July. At least 29 Taliban insurgents were killed in airstrikes and military clashes with the Pakistani Army in the north-western tribal region of the Orakzai Agency. Meanwhile, it was also reported that 5 Taliban insurgents were apparently killed in clashes with tribesmen, in the tribal region of Kurram Agency, which is located near to the Afghan-Pakistan border.<br>\n24 July. At least 39 Taliban insurgents were killed and many other insurgents were reportedly injured after the Pakistani Army launched a fresh military operation within different areas of the Upper Orakzai tribal regions, in north-western Pakistan. It was also reported that 3 Taliban insurgents and 1 Tribesman were reportedly killed in clashes within the Kurram Agency.<br>\n25 July. At least 23 Taliban insurgents were reportedly killed in Orakzai by fighter jets.<br>\n26 July. At least 34 Taliban insurgents were killed and 18 injured from Pakistani fighter jet attacks in Orakzai and Kurram.<br>\n27 July. 14 Taliban insurgents were killed in Pakistani fighter jet attacks in Orakzai.<br>\n30 July. 12 Taliban insurgents were killed in Kurrum when Pakistani security forces attacked militant positions.<br>\n1 August. 15 Taliban Insurgents were killed by Pakistani Aircraft Fighters in Orakzai.<br>\n2 August. At least 15 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Army in Orakzai Agency.<br>\n3 August. At least 12 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Security Forces in Upper Orakzai.<br>\n19 August. At least 14 Taliban insurgents were killed in military clashes with the Pakistani security forces, in the Tapu region of the Orakzai Agency. It was reported that at least 1 Pakistani soldier was also killed in the clashes and another soldier was apparently injured.<br>\n20 August. At least 11 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Army in Orakzai and Kurram Agency.<br> \n21 August. At least 8 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Army in Orakzai Agency. It was reported that at least 1 Pakistani soldier was also killed in this clashes.<br> \n23 August. At least 2 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Security Forces in Orakzai Agency. A bomb exploded in Kurram Agency, at least 7 citizens were killed.<br>\n25 August. At least 7 Taliban insurgents, including an important Taliban commander, were killed and 3 others were reportedly injured in a military clash with the Pakistani military within the Upper Orakzai region of north-western Pakistan.<br>\n2 September. At least 15 Taliban insurgents were killed and 10 others were reportedly injured after three militant hideouts were destroyed by helicopter gunships of the Pakistani Army, in the Kurram tribal region of north-western Pakistan.<br>\n7 September. The Pakistani army claimed it has cleared nearly 90% of Orakzai Agency of militants and now is helping the area’s displaced persons return home<br>\n10 September. 7 insurgents open fire on four local high school students in Orakzai, killing them. In an outrage, local civilians and tribesmen track and kill the 7 taliban insurgents.<br>\n20 September. At least 8 Taliban insurgents were killed and 7 others were reportedly injured when Pakistani helicopter gunships attacked militant positions, in the Kurram Agency.<br>\n5 October. At least 18 Taliban insurgents were killed and another 6 were injured when Pakistani helicopter gunships attacked militant positions in central Kurram Agency.<br>\n21 October. At least 6 Taliban insurgents were killed by a roadside bomb in Kurram Agency. Among the dead rebels was a top Taliban commander, Hakim Khan.<br>\n22 October. At least 6 Pakistani soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb in the Orakzai Agency.<br>\n23 October. At least 18 Pakistani Taliban insurgents were killed and 12 others injured, when the Pakistan Army, targeted and destroyed several militant hide-outs, as a result of Pakistani Army troops backed up by helicopter gunships in the Orakzai Agency. Meanwhile, it was also reported that Pakistani paramilitary forces, pounded suspected militant positions, killing 5 Pakistani Taliban insurgents and injuring 7 others within the neighbouring Kurram Agency.<br>\n26 October. At least 6 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Army in Orakzai Agency. It was reported that at least 1 Pakistani soldier was also killed in this clash.<br>\n27 October. Inspector General Frontier Corps Major General Nadir Zaib said that 90 percent of Orakzai agency areas have been cleared from the terrorists, adding, during the past few months 650 Taliban have been killed, 250 captured and 60 officers were 'martyred' while 194 sustained injuries, while for the remaining 10 percent the security forces are doing a successful operation. He also stated that Corps commander Peshawar Lieutenant General Asif Yasin while briefing the media in Orakzai Agency said the Pakistan army has strong intentions of clearing the tribal areas from the Taliban by the year 2012 and that the valley of Tirah will also be cleared from the Taliban soon.<br>\n29 October. 20 Taliban are killed by Pakistani army shelling on hideouts in Orakzai.<br>\n1 November. At least 12 Taliban insurgents were killed and 9 others were reportedly injured after three militant hideouts were destroyed by helicopter gunships of the Pakistani Army, in the Orakzai tribal region of north-western Pakistan.<br>\n6 November. At least 22 Taliban militants are killed by shelling from Pakistani helicopter gunships on hideouts in Orakzai.<br>\n7 November. At least 5 Taliban insurgents were killed by unidentified armed men in Kurram Agency. Among the dead rebels was a Taliban commander, Hikmat Shah.<br>\n11 November. At least 15 Taliban insurgents were killed after Pakistani military fighter jets bombarded militant positions and destroyed militant hideouts, in the Upper Orakzai Agency. Top Taliban commander (Ziaullah) was arrested during this operation. At least 6 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Army in the Orakzai Agency.<br>\n13 November. At least 8 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Army in Orakzai Agency.<br>\n21 November. At least 15 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Army in Orakzai Agency.<br>\n25 November. At least 8 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani Army in Orakzai Agency.<br>\n1 December. At least 10 Taliban militants were killed in a clash by the Pakistani Army in the Orakzai Agency.<br>\n6 December. Pakistan security forces stated that more than 85% of Orakzai is cleared and that they are working on clearing the remaining 15%, also Sunni and Shia tribal elders unanimously agreed during a grand peace jirga held at Kalaya, Orkazai Agency headquarters, on Sunday, to open all roads closed since 2005 for each other, and announced to take stern action jointly against elements found guilty of any subversive activity. The jirga was attended, among others, by FC Inspector General Maj Gen Nadir Zaib, Orakzai Political Agent Riaz Mehsud, religious scholars from both Sunni and Shia sects, tribal maliks, chieftains, Sikhs and elites of the areas. Representatives of the Haqqani network was reporably involved in talks.<br>\n23 December. At least 2 Pakistani citizens were injured after Taliban insurgents opened firing on a convoy in Kurram Agency.<br>\n29 December. At least 7 Taliban insurgents were killed by shelling from Pakistani helicopter gunships on hideouts in Kurram Agency.<br>\n30 December. At least 20 Taliban insurgents were killed by shelling from Pakistani helicopter gunships on hideouts in Kurram tribal region.\n\n4 January. Taliban insurgents chopped off a hand of a local resident who was convicted of theft in Orakzai Agency.<br>\n6 January. At least 6 Taliban insurgents were killed by Pakistani tribal volunteers in Orakzai Agency.<br>\n7 January. At least 46 Taliban insurgents were arrested by Pakistani army forces in Kurram Agency.<br>\n11 January. At least 5 Taliban insurgents were killed by unspecified militants in Kurram Agency.<br>\n21 January. According to sources most of the areas of Orakzai Agency have been cleared of militants while about 10 per cent area including Sefal Darra, Kasha, Wood Mela, Mamozai and Ahang is still under their control.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51597946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51597946", "title": "Paolo Biagi", "text": "Paolo Biagi\n\nPaolo Biagi (born 1948) is an Italian archaeologist specialising in the prehistory of Southeast Europe, Russia and the Caucasus, and Southwest Asia. He is currently a professor at the Ca' Foscari University of Venice.\n\nBiagi obtained a \"laurea\" from the University of Milan in 1972 and a PhD from the Institute of Archaeology in London in 1981. He has held academic positions at the Natural History Museum of Brescia (1978–1981), the University of Genoa (1981–1988), and the Ca' Foscari University of Venice (1988–present). He became a full professor (\"professore ordinario\") of prehistory and protohistory in the Department of Asian and North African Studies at Ca' Foscari in 2002.\n\nBiagi has been director of the Italian Archaeological Mission in the Banat and Transylvania (Romania) and is at present the director of the Italian Archaeological Mission in Sindh and Las Bela (Balochistan), Pakistan since 1993. He also directed the Italian Archaeological Expedition in Oman (1990–1991).\nHe is conducting archalogical research in the Central Alpine arc, the Pindos Mountains and the island of Lemnos (Greece), the Caucasus of Georgia, ans Sindh and Las Bela (Pakistan). He is approved High Education Commission of Pakistan supervisor of Quaid-i-Azam PhD students.\n\nBiagi is an Honorary Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London, an honorary professor of Odessa and Nikolaev Universities and was awarded a gold medal from Shah Abdul Latif University in 1999.\n\nBiagi P. e Franco C. 2008 - Ricerche Archeologiche in Balochistan e nel Sindh Meridionale. In Gelichi S. (ed.) Missioni archeologiche e progetti di ricerca e scavo dell’Università Ca’ Foscari – Venezia. VI Giornata di Studio. Università Ca’ Foscari di Venezia: 9-18. Bretschneider, Roma.\n\nBiagi P. e Efstratiou N. 2008 - Prospezioni e scavi nella catena del Pindo in Macedonia Occidentale. In Gelichi S. (ed.) Missioni archeologiche e progetti di ricerca e scavo dell’Università Ca’ Foscari – Venezia. VI Giornata di Studio. Università Ca’ Foscari di Venezia: 19-25. Bretschneider, Roma.\n\nBiagi P. 2008 - New discoveries of Mesolithic sites in the Thar Desert (Upper Sindh, Pakistan). In Olijdam E. and Spoor R.H. (eds.) Intercultural relations between South and Southwest Asia. Studies in commemoration of E.C.L. During Caspers (1934-1996). BAR International Series, 1826. Society for Arabian Studies Monographs, 7: 78-85. Archaeopress, Oxford.\n\nBiagi P. and Starnini E. 2008 - The Bronze Age Indus Quarries of the Rohri Hills and Ongar in Sindh (Pakistan). In Kostov R.I, Gaydarska B. and Gurova M. (eds) Geoarchaeology and Archaeomineralogy, Proceedings of the International Conference: 77-82. St. Ivan Rilski, Sofia.\n\nBiagi P., Starnini E. and Voytek B. 2008 - The Mesolithic-Neolithic transition in the Trieste Karst (northeastern Italy) as seen from the excavations at the Edera Cave. In Bonsall C., Boroneanţ V. and Radovanović I. (eds.) The Iron Gates in Prehistory. BAR International Series, 1893: 251-260. Archaeopress, Oxford.\n\nBiagi P. 2007 - The Archaeological Sites of the Rohri Hills (Sindh, Pakistan): the Way they are Being Destroyed. Sindhological Studies, 23 (1-2): 5-26. Jamshoro.\n\nBiagi P. 2008 - The shell-middens of the Arabian Sea and Persian Gulf: maritime connections in the seventh millennium BP? In Al-Ansary A.R., Al-Muaikel K.I., Alsharek A.M. (eds.) The City in the Arab World in Light of Archaeological Discoveries: Evolution and Development: 7-16. Riyadh.\n\nБіаджі П., Станко В.Н., Кіосак Д.В. 2008 - Нові радіовуглецеві дати поселення Мирне. Ηаукові праці, 83: 33-37. Mykolayiv.\n\nBiagi P. e Nisbet R. 2008 - Gli scavi nella stazione preistorica di Vaiale in Valle Sabbia (Lavenone, Brescia). In Mottes E., Nicolis F e Zontini G. (eds.) Archeologia lungo il Chiese. Nuove indagini e prospettive delle ricerca preistorica in un territorio condiviso tra Trentino e Lombardia. Provincia Autonoma di Trento: 25-35.\n\n330. Biagi P. 2008 - The Palaeolithic settlement of Sindh (Pakistan): A review. Archäologischen Mitteilungen aus Iran und Turan, 40: 1-26. Eurasien Abteilung, Berlin.\n\nEfstratiou N. and Biagi P. 2009 – The Archaeology of Samarina and its region – The research in 2009. The Archaeological Work in Upper Macedonia – AEAM, 1 (2011): 65-74.\n\nBiagi P. and Nisbet R. 2010 - The Prehistoric Flint Mines of Jhimpir in Lower Sindh (Pakistan). Antiquity Project Gallery, 84 (325): 1-4. September 2010. http://www.antiquity.ac.uk/projgall/nisbet325/, Cambridge.\n\nBiagi P. and Starnini E. 2010 - A Source in Bulgaria for Early Neolithic \"Balkan flint\". Antiquity Project Gallery, Antiquity 84 (328): 1-4. September 2010. http://www.antiquity.ac.uk/projgall/biagi328/, Cambridge.\n\nBiagi P. and Starnini E. 2010 - The Early Neolithic chipped stone assemblages of the Carpathian Basin: typology and raw material circulation. In J.K. Kozłowski and P. Raczky (eds.) Neolithization of the Carpathian Basin: northernmost distribution of the Starčevo/Körös Culture. Polish Academy of Arts Sciences, Kraków-Institute of Archaeological Sciences, Budapest: 119-136.\n\nBiagi P. and Nisbet R. 2009 - Ranikot Fort (Jamshoro, Sindh): An AMS Radiocarbon Date from Sann (Eastern) Gate. Journal of Asian Civilizations, 32 (2): 1-8. Islamabad.\n336. Biagi P. 2011 - Some aspects of the earliest Neolithic chipped stone assemblages of Transylvania and the Banat (Romania). In Luca S.A. and Suciu C. (eds.) The First Neolithic Sites in Central/South-East European Transect. Volume II: Early Neolithic (Starčevo-Criş) Sites on the Territory of Romania. BAR International Series, 2188: 71-78. Archaeopress, Oxford.\n\nBiagi P. and Starnini E. 2011 - Neanderthals at the south-easternmost edge: the spread of Levalloisian Mousterian in the Indian Subcontinent. In Biro K and András M. (eds.) Papers in Honour of Viola T. Dobosi, Budapest National Museum: 5-14.\n\nBiagi P. and Kiosak D. 2010 - The Mesolithic of the North-western Pontic Region: New AMS Dates for the Origin and Spread of the Blade and Trapeze Industries in South-eastern Europe. Eurasia Antiqua, 16: 21-41. Eurasien Abteilung, Berlin.\n\nEfstratiou N., Biagi P., Angelucci D.E. and Nisbet R. 2011 - Middle Palaeolithic chert exploitation in the Pindus of Western Macedonia (Greece). Antiquity Project Gallery, Antiquity 85 (329): 1-5. April 2011. http://www.antiquity.ac.uk/projgall/biagi328/, Cambridge.\n\nBiagi P. 2010 - Archaeological surveys in Lower Sindh: Preliminary results of the 2009 season Journal of Asian Civilizations, 33 (1): 1-42. Islamabad.\n\nBiagi P. 2011 - Late (Upper) Palaeolithic Sites at Jhimpir in Lower Sindh (Pakistan). In Taskiran H., Kartal M., Özcelik K., Kösem M.B. and Kartal G. (eds.) Işın Yalçınkaya'ya Armagan. Ankara University, Ankara: 67-84.\n\nBiagi P. and Starnini E. 2011 - First Discovery of Balkan flint sources and workshops along the course of the Danube river in Bulgaria. Panonski prapovijesni osviti - Zbornik radova posvećen Korneliji Minichreite uz 65. obljetnicu zivotar. Institute of Archaeology, Zagreb: 69-81.\n\nBiagi P. and Nisbet R. 2011 - The Palaeolithic sites at Ongar in Sindh, Pakistan: a precious archaeological resource in danger. Antiquity Project Gallery. Antiquity 85 (329): 1-6. August 2011. http://www.antiquity.ac.uk/projgall/biagi329/. Cambridge.\n\nBiagi P. 2011 - Changing the prehistory of Sindh and Las Bela coast: twenty-five years of Italian contribution. World Archaeology, 43 (4): 523-537. Doi: 10.1080/00438243.2011.624695\n\nStarnini E. and Biagi P. 2011 - The Archaeological Record of the Indus (Harappan) Lithic Production: The Excavation of RH862 Flint Mine and Flint Knapping Workshops on the Rohri Hills (Upper Sindh, Pakistan). Journal of Asian Civilizations, 34 (2): 1-61.\n\nBiagi P. 2010 - Le stazioni preistoriche della catena del Pindo in Macedonia Occidentale (Grecia). Ad Rem, 4: 7-11. Varsavia. \n\nBiagi P. and Starnini E. 2011 - Technological choices and lithic production in the Harappan period: case studies from Sindh (Pakistan). Iranian Archaeology 2: 21-33.\n\nEfstratiou, N. and Biagi, P. 2011 - High altitude archaeology in Greece. The Case of the Palaeolithic Pindus in Grevena Region. The Archaeological Work in Upper Macedonia – AEAM, 2 (2011). 23-31.\n\nPisan A., Biagi P., Gasparotto G. 2013 - The stone and shell beads of the shell-midden settlement of RH5 (Muscat, Sultanate of Oman). 2nd Adumatu Conference, Riyadh: 83-94.\n\nN. Efstratiou, P. Biagi, P. Karkanas, E. Starnini 2013 - Discovery of a Late Palaeolithic Site at Ouriakos (Island of Limnos, Greece) in the North-Eastern Aegean Sea. Antiquity Project Gallery, 338 (87), March 2013. http://antiquity.ac.uk/projgall/efstratiou335/\n\nBiagi P. and Starnini E. 2013 - Pre-Balkan Platform Flint in the Early Neolithic Sites of the Carpathian Basin: its Occurrence and Significance. In Anders A. and Kulcsár G. (eds.) Festschrift to honour the 60th birthday of Pál Raczky. Hungarian Prehistoric Society, 1: 147-160. Budapest.\n\n352. Biagi, P. 2013. The shell middens of Las Bela coast and the Indus delta (Arabian Sea, Pakistan). Arabian Archaeology and Epigraphy 24, pp. 9-14. doi: 10.1111/aae.12013\n\nBiagi P., Fantuzzi T. and Franco C. 2013 - The shell-middens of the Bay of Daun Bay: Environmental Changes and Human Impact along the Coast of Las Bela (Balochistan, Pakistan) between the 8th and the 5th millennium BP. Eurasian Prehistory, 9 (1): 29-49.\n\nBiagi P. and D’Amico C. 2013 - The greenstone tools from the Middle Neolithic sites of Fimon and Villa del Ferro in the Berici Hills (Vicenza, Northern Italy). Atti della Società per la Preistoria e Protostoria della Regione Friuli-Venezia Giulia, XVIII: 87-105.\n\nBiagi P, Nisbet R., Girod A. and Fantuzzi T. 2013 - The Middle Holocene mangrove shellfish gatherers of Las Bela coast (Balochistan, Pakistan): New AMS dates from Lake Siranda shell middens. Antiquity Project Gallery, 87 (337), September 2013. http://Antiquity.ac.uk/projgall/biagi337\n\nBiagi P. and Starnini E. 2014 - The Levallois Mousterian assemblages of Sindh (Pakistan) and their relations with the Middle Palaeolithic in the Indian Subcontinent. Archaeology, Ethnology & Anthropology of Eurasia, 57 (1): 18-32 (Russian edition)\n\nBiagi P., Girod A. and Nisbet R. 2013 - Prehistoric shell middens, seascapes and landscapes at Lake Siranda (Las Bela, Balochistan): Preliminary results of the 2011 season. Journal of Asian Civilizations, 36 (1): 1-25.\n\nBiagi P., Nisbet R. and Girod A. 2013 - The Archaeological Sites of Gadani and Phuari Headlands (Las Bela, Balochistan, Pakistan) Journal of Indian Ocean Archaeology, 9: 75-86, 3 colour plates.\n\nN. Efstratiou, P. Biagi, E. Starnini 2014 - A New Epipalaeolithic Site at Ouriakos in the Northeast Aegean (Island of Lemnos, Greece). Adalya, XVII: 1-23.\n\nN. Efstratiou, P. Biagi, D.E. Angelucci, R. Nisbet 2014 - Highland zone exploitation in northwestern Greece: The Levallois Middle Palaeolithic sites of the Pindus range of Western Macedonia. The SAA Archaeological Record. Special Issue, 14 (3): 38-42.\n\nP. Biagi, B. Gratuze, D.V. Kiosak, O.V. Tobulzev, Z.H. Popandopulo 2014 - The Neolithic obsidians from Southeastern Ukraine: First characterization and provenance determination. Anadolu, 40: 1-20.\n\nP. Biagi and R. Nisbet 2014 - Sonari: a Bronze Age fisher-gatherers settlement at the Hab River mouth (Sindh, Pakistan). Antiquity Project Gallery, 88 (341) September 2014.\n\nP. Biagi and E. Starnini 2014 - The Levallois Mousterian assemblages of Sindh (Pakistan) and their relations with the Middle Palaeolithic in the Indian Subcontinent. Archaeology, Ethnology & Anthropology of Eurasia, 42 (1): 18-32 (Elsevier English edition). Doi: 10.1016/j.aeae.2014.10.002.\n\nP. Biagi and E. Starnini 2014 - Neanderthals at the south-easternmost edge: The spread of Levallois Mousteian in the Indian Subcontinent. In Biró T.K., Markó, A., Bajnok, K.P (eds.) Aeolian Scripts: New Ideas on the Lithic World. Studies in Honour of Viola T. Dobosi. Inventaria Praehistorica Hungariae (IPH), XIII: 11-22. Magyar Nemzeti Múzeum, Budapest.\n\nP. Biagi 2015 - Modeling the Past: The Paleoethnological Evidence. In W. Henke, I Tattersall (eds) Handbook of Paleoanthropology. Springer Verlag, Berlin-Heidelberg (2nd revised Edition) Doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-27800-6_24-3.\n\nP. Biagi 2014 - Quarries in Harappa. In H. Selin (ed) Encyclopaedia of the History of Science, Technology, and Medicine in Non-Western Cultures. Springer Science+Business Media, Dordrecht: 1-17. Doi: 10.1007/978-94-007-3934-5_9696-2.\n\nP. Biagi 2014 - Shell middens of the Coast of Balochistan. In H. Selin (ed) Encyclopaedia of the History of Science, Technology, and Medicine in Non-Western Cultures. Springer Science+Business Media, Dordrecht: 1-21. Doi: 10.1007/978-94-007-3934-5_10169-1.\n\nP. Biagi, E. Starnini and N. Efstratiou 2015 - Gunflints from Greece: a few specimens from Lemnos, and the Pindus range of Western Macedonia. Gunflints – beyond the British and French empires. Occasional newsletter from an informal working group, 4: 3-11.\n\nP. Biagi, G.A., Khlopachev and D.V. Kiosak 2014 - The radiocarbon chronology of Shan-Koba rock-shelter, a Late Palaeolithic and Mesolithic sequence in the Crimean mountains (Ukraine). Diadora, 28: 7-20.\n\nP. Biagi 2015 - The Early Palaeolithic site of Dmanisi in Georgia and its role in the earliest prehistory of Eurasia. Eurasiatica Quaderni di Studi su Balcani, Anatolia, Iran, Caucaso e Asia Centrale, 2: 9-19. Edizioni Ca’ Foscari, Venezia.\n\nP. Biagi 2015 - The Middle Neolithic and Chalcolithic Chipped Stone Assemblages of Transylvania: their Exploitation, Manufacture and Trans-Carpathian Trade. In S. Hansen, P. Raczky, A. Anders, A Schweingruber (eds.) Neolithic and Copper Age between the Carpathians and the Aegean Sea. Chronologies and Technologies from the 6th to the 4th Millennium BCE. Archäologie in Eurasien, 31: 243-262. International Workshop Budapest 2012. Berlin, Eurasien Abteilung. Doi: 10.13140/RG.2.1.3033.0729\n\nP. Biagi 2015 - Shell middens/kitchen middens (Køkkenmøddinger): da Worsaae ad oggi. In A. Girod (ed.) Appunti di archeomalacologia. Passato Anteriore, 3: 129-136. All’Insegna del Giglio, Firenze.\n\nP. Biagi, R. Nisbet and N. Efstratiou 2015 - Late Palaeolithic and Early Mesolithic finds from the Pindus mountains of Western Macedonia (Greece). Antiquity Project Gallery, 89 (346) August 2015. http://antiquity.ac.uk/projgall/524. pp. 1-4, 1 table.\n\nP. Biagi and E. Starnini 2015 - Human Settlement and Environmental Exploitation of Valcamonica-Valtrompia Watershed from the Beginning of the Holocene to the Middle Ages. Natura Bresciana, 39: 249-259.\n\nP. Biagi, R. Nisbet, R. Michniak and N. Efstratiou 2015 - The Chert Outcrops of the Pindus Range of Western Macedonia (Greece) and their Middle Palaeolithic Exploitation. The Quarry, 11: 3-16.\n\nP Biagi, E. Starnini and C. Beltrame 2015 - Gunflints from the sea: The Mercurio shipwreck in the north Adriatic waters (Italy). Gunflints – beyond the British and French empires. Occasional newsletter from an informal working group, New series, No. 7 – December 2015: 4-12. \n\nP. Biagi 2016 - The Last Hunter-gatherers of the Northern Coast of the Black Sea and their Role in the Mesolithic of Europe: A view from Crimea. In R. Krauss and H. Floss (eds.) Southeast Europe before Neolithisation. Proceedings of the International Workshop within the Collaborative Research Centres sfb 1070 “Ressourcen Kulturen”, Schloss Hohentübingen, 9th of May 2014. Ressourcekulturen, 1: 113-129. Tübingen University. \n\nP. Biagi and E. Starnini 2016 - La Cultura della Ceramica Impressa nella Liguria di Ponente (Italia Settentrionale): Distribuzione, cronologia e aspetti culturali. In. J.J. Cabanilles (ed.) Del neolitico a l’edat del bronze en el Mediterrani occidental. Estudis en Homenatge a Bernat Martí Oliver. TV SIP 119, Valencia: 35-49.\n\nP. Biagi, E. Starnini and C. Beltrame 2016 - The Mercurio Gunflints: A techno-typological and cultural assessment. The Antiquaries Journal, 96: 363-389. doi:10.1017⁄s0003581516000214.\n\nP. Biagi and B. Gratuze 2016 - New data on source characterization and exploitation of obsidian from Chikiani in Georgia. In A. Ferrari, E. Ianiro (eds.) Armenia, Caucaso e Asia Centrale Ricerche 2016 Eurasiatica Quaderni di Studi su Balcani, Anatolia, Iran, Caucaso e Asia Centrale, 6: 9-35. Edizioni Ca’ Foscari, Venezia. doi: 10.14277/6969-093-8/EUR-6-1.\n\nP. Biagi and E. Starnini 2016 - The origin and spread of the Late Mesolithic Blade and Trapeze Industries in Europe: Reconsidering J.G.D. Clark’s hypothesis fifty years after. In Terna, S., Govedarica, B. (eds.) Interactions, changes and meanings. Essays in honour of Igor Manzura on the occasion of his 60th birthday. High Anthropological School, Stratum Plus, Kishinev: 33-45.\n\nP. Biagi and E. Starnini 2016. The exploitation of the highland zones: the earliest Mesolithic hunters of the central Alpine arc. In K. Bacvarov and R. Gleser (eds.) Southeast Europe and Anatolia in prehistory: essays in honor of Vassil Nikolov on his 65th anniversary. Universitätsforschungen zur Prähistorischen Archäologie 293: 33-40. R. Habelt, Bonn. \n\nП. Бьяджи, Д. Киосак 2017 - Новые даты для финального палеолита и мезолита Горного Крыма (New data on the Late Palaeolithic and Mesolithic of the mountains of Crimea). In A.A. Prigarin (ed.) Man of History and Culture, volume 3: 187-197. Irbis, Odessa (in Russian). \n\nP. Biagi 2017 - Uneasy Riders: With Alexander and Nearchus from Pattala to Rhambakia. In C. Antonetti and P. Biagi (eds.) With Alexander in India and Central Asia, Moving East and back to West. Oxbow Books, Oxford: 255-278.\n\nP. Biagi, R. Nisbet, E. Starnini, N. Efstratiou and R. Michniak 2016 - Where Neanderthals and Mountains meet: The Middle Palaeolithic settlement of Samarina in Northern Pindus (Western Macedonia, Greece). Eurasian Prehistory, 13 (1-2): 3-76.\n\nP. Biagi, R. Nisbet and B. Gratuze 2017 - Obsidian mines and their characterization: New aspects of the exploitation of the obsidian sources of Mt. Chikiani (Koyun Dağ) in the Lesser Caucasus of Georgia. The Quarry, 12: 2-24.\n\nP. Biagi, R. Nisbet and B. Gratuze 2017 - Discovery of obsidian mines on Mount Chikiani in the Lesser Caucasus of Georgia. Antiquity Project Gallery, 91 (357), e5, June 2017: 1-8. doi: 10.15184/aqy.2017.39.\n\nE. Starnini, P. Biagi and F. Mazzucco 2018 - The beginning of the Neolithic in the Po Plain (Northern Italy): Problems and Perspectives. Quaternary International, 470: 301-317. doi: 10.1016/j.quaint.2017.05.059.\n\nP. Biagi 2017 - Why so many different stones? The Late (Upper) Palaeolithic of Sindh reconsidered. Journal of Asian Civilizations, 40 (1): 1-40.\n\nP. Biagi, R. Nisbet and T. Fantuzzi 2017 - Exploiting mangroves and rushing back home: Fifteen years of research along the northern coast of the Arabian Sea, Pakistan. In: L. Sperti (ed.) Giornata dell’archeologia: scavi e ricerche del Dipartimento di Studi Umanistici. Studi e Ricerche, 11: 9-22. Venezia University Press, Venezia. doi: 10.14277/6969-189-8/SR-11-1.\n\nP. Biagi, E. Starnini and R. Nisbet 2017 - Malga Rondeneto: A high altitude Mesolithic camp in the Central Italian Alps: Interpreting the Sauveterrian Boreal settlement in the region. In: M. Mărgărit and A. Boroneanţ (eds.) From Hunter-gatherers to Farmers. Human Adaptations at the end of the Pleistocene and the First Part of the Holocene. Papers in Honour of Clive Bonsall. Editura Cetatea de Scaun, Targoviște: 367-384.\n\nP. Biagi and E. Starnini E. 2018 - Neanderthals and Modern Humans in the Indus Valley? The Middle and Late (Upper) Palaeolithic Settlement of Sindh, a Forgotten Region of the Indian Subcontinent. In: Nishiaki Y., Akazawa T. (eds.) The Middle and Upper Paleolithic Archeology of the Levant and Beyond. Replacement of Neanderthals by Modern Humans Series. Springer, Singapore: 175-197. doi:10.1007/978-981-10-6826-3_12.\n\nP. Biagi and E. Starnini 2018 - Ongar: A source of chert in Lower Sindh (Pakistan) and its Bronze Age exploitation. In D.H. Werra and M. Woźny (eds.) Between history and archaeology. Papers in honour of Jacek Lech. Archaeopress, Oxford: 79-88.\n\nБьяджи П. 2018 - Малоизвестные материалы к хронологии грота Буран-Кая III (Украина). Starodavne Prichornomor’ya, XII: 97-101. \n\nP. Biagi and R. Nisbet 2018 - The Georgian Caucasus ad its resources: The exploitation of Mount Chikiani uplands during the metal ages. Antiquity Project Gallery 92 (362) e7: 1–9. doi: 10.15184/aqy.2018.53.\n\nP. Biagi and E. Starnini 2018 - The microlithisation of chipped stones in the Old World: Case-studies from the Crimea and northern Italy. In P. Valde-Nowak, K. Sobczyk, M. Nowak and J. Źrałka (eds.) “Multas per gentes et multa per saecula”. Alter, Krakow: 229-242.\n\nP. Biagi 2018 - The Mesolithic settlement of Sindh (Pakistan): New evidence from the Khadeji River course. Praehistoria, 11-12: 59-74.\n\nP. Biagi, E. Starnini and R. Michniak 2018 - Chert mines and chert miners: Material culture and social organization of the Indus Civilization chipped stone workers, artisans and traders in the Indus Valley (Sindh, Pakistan). In D. Frenez, G. Jamison, R. Law, M. Vidale and R. Meadow (eds.) Walking with the Unicorn – Jonathan Mark Kenoyer Felicitation Volume. Archaeopress, Oxford: 63-84.\n\nP. Biagi 2018 – Introduzione. In BIAGI, P. e STARNINI, E. (a cura di) Gli Scavi all’Arma dell’Aquila (Finale Ligure, Savona): Le Ricerche e i Materiali degli Scavi del Novecento. Società per la Preistoria e Protostoria della Regione Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Quaderno XV: 11-12. Print and Graph, Ronchi dei Legionari (GO).\n\nE. Starnini e P. Biagi 2018 - I reperti ceramici dell’Arma dell’Aquila (Finale Ligure, Savona). In Biagi, P. e Starnini, E. (a cura di) Gli Scavi all’Arma dell’Aquila (Finale Ligure, Savona): Le Ricerche e i Materiali degli Scavi del Novecento. Società per la Preistoria e Protostoria della Regione Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Quaderno XV: 49-94. Print and Graph, Ronchi dei Legionari (GO).\n\nP. Biagi and B.A. Voytek 2018 - The chipped stone assemblages from Arma dell’Aquila (Finale Ligure, Savona). In Biagi, P. e Starnini, E. (a cura di) Gli Scavi all’Arma dell’Aquila (Finale Ligure, Savona): Le Ricerche e i Materiali degli Scavi del Novecento. Società per la Preistoria e Protostoria della Regione Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Quaderno XV: 119-126. Print and Graph, Ronchi dei Legionari (GO).\n\nP. Biagi e E. Starnini 2018 - L’Arma dell’Aquila (Finale Ligure, Savona) nel quadro delle conoscenze dell’Alto Tirreno tra Paleolitico Superiore e Medio Olocene: un bilancio a 70 anni dagli scavi. In Biagi, P. e Starnini, E. (a cura di) Gli Scavi all’Arma dell’Aquila (Finale Ligure, Savona): Le Ricerche e i Materiali degli Scavi del Novecento. Società per la Preistoria e Protostoria della Regione Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Quaderno XV: 287-296. Print and Graph, Ronchi dei Legionari (GO).\n\nP. Biagi und R. Nisbet 2018 - Eine Frage der Zeit – Vom Wandel Der Kulturlandschaft des kleinen Kaukasus. Antike Welt, 5/18: 20-23.\n\nP. Biagi 2018 - Ca' Foscari and Pakistan: Thirty years of archaeological surveys and excavations in Sindh and Las Bela (Balochistan). In De Giorgi L. and Greselin, F. (eds.) 150 Years of Oriental Studies at Ca’ Foscari, I libri di Ca’ Foscari 8. 1868-2018: storie di un ateneo 3: 113-133. doi: 10.30687/978-88-6969-252-9/010. \n\nP. Biagi and R. Nisbet 2018 – Archeologia della pastorizia dei Vlah di Samarina (Macedonia Occidentale, Grecia). In G. Ligi, F. Tamisari e G. Pedrini, \"Un accademico impaziente. Studi in onore di Glauco Sanga\" Edizioni dell'Orso, Torino: 55-67.\n"}
{"id": "49060819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49060819", "title": "Pavla Vošahlíková", "text": "Pavla Vošahlíková\n\nPavla Vošahlíková (born 20 March 1951 in Prague) is a Czech historian. Her specialization is the history of Czech in 19th and the first half of the 20th century. In 1974 she defended her PhD thesis on the Charles University in Prague. She is member of the Department of Biographical Studies of the Institute of History of the Czech Academy of Sciences.\n\nPavla Vošahlíková was an editor of \"Biografický slovník českých zemí\" from 2004 to 2012. She is member of the editorial board of \"Polski Słownik Biograficzny\".\n\nShe collaborates with the Czech Radio.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12202907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12202907", "title": "Pensée (Immanuel Velikovsky Reconsidered)", "text": "Pensée (Immanuel Velikovsky Reconsidered)\n\n\"Pensée\": Immanuel Velikovsky Reconsidered (\"IVR\") was a special series of ten issues of the magazine \"Pensée\" advancing the pseudoscientific theories of Immanuel Velikovsky. It was produced to \"encourage continuing critical analysis of all questions raised by Velikovsky's work\", published between May 1972 and Winter 1974-75 by the Student Academic Freedom Forum, whose president was David N. Talbott, with the assistance and cooperation of Lewis and Clark College, Portland, Oregon. Velikovsky -- \"the man whose work was being examined 'objectively'\" insinuated himself into the editing of the May 1972 issue, just as he had done earlier for the April 1967 \"Velikovsky\" issue of Yale Scientific Magazine.\n\nIt achieved a circulation of between 10,000 - 20,000, with the first issue reprinted twice totalling 75,000 copies, and resulted in a book, \"Velikovsky Reconsidered\" containing selected articles, many of them partisan.\n\nIn the final issue of \"Pensée IVR\", the publisher recalled that the original magazine was:\n\n\"Science\" magazine attributed the then increased support for Velikovsky's ideas, to \"Pensée\".\n\nThe staff consisted of publisher David N. Talbott and his brother Stephen L. Talbott as editor, and built up to five associate editors: Lewis M. Greenberg, Ralph Juergens, William Mullen, C.J. Ransom, and Lynn E. Rose. Professor of Social Theory, Alfred de Grazia noted that:\n\nThe \"Immanuel Velikovsky Reconsidered\" period also included sponsoring two three-day symposia which were attended by Velikovsky. The first ever \"Velikovsky Symposium\" held 16–18 August 1972, at Lewis and Clark College (who was also co-sponsor) convened 50 invited scholars, many from the ranks of Velikovsky's supporters, with 200 attendees. In June 1974, \"Velikovsky and the Recent History of the Solar System\" at McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, convened 38 invited scholars with a generally higher and non-aligned profile than in 1972, including such mainstream scientists as David Morrison (Univ. of Hawaii), James Warwick (Univ. of Colorado), and Derek York (Univ. of Toronto), and registered over 350 attendees.\n\nA number of magazine and journals refused to accept advertisements for \"Pensée\", including \"American Scientist\", \"Sky and Telescope\", and, \"Scientific American whose publishers wrote:\n\nHowever, many magazines and journals did accept advertisements for \"Pensée\", including the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\", \"Science\", \"Science News\", and \"Physics Today\".\n\nAt the end of the ten issue Velikovsky feature, the subscribers were informed that \"Pensee may not survive the future\" in the back of tenth issue while soliciting subscription renewals for up to three years on the inside front cover while the magazine was \"seriously encumbered with debts\". Publication ceased with the tenth issue and in early 1976 subscribers were informed \"Pensée has discontinued publication indefinitely\".\n\nVelikovsky himself noted \"When \"Pensée\" (1972-1974) completed the planned ten issues on the theme 'Velikovsky Reconsidered' I made it clear that I would not continue my cooperation as a regular contributor, not only because of a lack of time, but also because of disagreement with certain aspects of their editorial policy.\"\n\nThe successor Research Communications Network with Stephen L. Talbott as coordinator, which was \"committed to no man and no theory\", sent a newsletter to its \"more than 16,000 U.S. members\" six months later. The Network served as a clearinghouse for developments in and information about catastrophism, with special attention to Robert V. Gentry's radiohalos and David N. Talbott's \"Saturn Thesis\", as well as offering a book service through its mailings of newsletters and resources fliers. The Network ceased operations in spring 1978 with a single sheet flier announcing a book close-out sale and an offering of Velikovsky's \"Ramses II and his Time\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40908971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40908971", "title": "Presley Norton Yoder", "text": "Presley Norton Yoder\n\nPresley Norton Yoder (Guayaquil, February 26, 1932 – May 8, 1993) was an Ecuadorian archeologist and entrepreneur.\n\nHe made excavations in the '70s and early '80s, in the province of Guayas, where he uncovered a number of vases and figurines of the Machalilla culture, and also uncovered some from the Valdivia culture dating 3000 years BC.\n\nPresley Norton Yoder was born in Guayaquil, Ecuador on February 26, 1932. His father was Presley Norton (1907-1944) of New York, and his mother was Blanche La Rose Yoder of Guayaquil.\n\nPresley Norton's grandfather was Evermont Hope Norton (1873-1960) a business man from Richmond, VA, who was former president and chairman of the Ecuadorian Corporation, Ltd. and the International Products Corporation. Evermont went to South America in 1911 as president of the Guayaquil and Quito Railway Company, after an early career as a stockbroker in New York. He developed the Ecuadorian Railroad, which rises from the Pacific Coast city of Guayaquil, over the Andes Mountains to Quito. Evermont graduated in 1895 from the University of Virginia. He started in Wall Street the following year, and until 1899 was senior partner in Norton & Tunstall. He served in Naval Intelligence in World War I. He was married several times, one time to Lily Bouvier Morison of Saint Louis, MO who was a great aunt of Jackeline Bouvier Kennedy.\n\nPresley Norton's father died when he was about 12 years old. He inherited shares worth $600,000 which by the time he was of age in 1950 had become $5,000,000.\n\nNorton had dual citizenship in Ecuador and the United States, because he was born in Ecuador and his father was born in New York. In 1950 he joined the American army which stationed him in Hawaii (1950-1952).\n\nBetween 1950-1953 he studied Literature and History at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. He then went to Paris and enrolled at the Sorbonne where he took courses in the history of French civilization and contemporary philosophy until 1955.\n\nIn 1960 Norton married Leonor Pérez Gómez with whom he had 4 children. After divorcing Leonor he married an English woman, Georgina Marten Sturt, in 1973. He divorced Georgina in 1978 and married María Isabel Fernández Salvador Eastman in 1982 with whom he had 2 children.\n\nIn 1962 he started the first television channel in Guayaquil, Ecuador, \"Televisión Ecuatoriana Canal 4\" (Ecuadorian TV Channel 4) with the help of ABC (American Broadcasting Inc) of New York who put up 1/3 of the money while he put up a 2/3 investment. Later he started Channel 6 in Quito.\n\nHe died on May 8, 1993 of a heart attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "46262048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46262048", "title": "Reşvan", "text": "Reşvan\n\nThe Reşvan, Reşwan or Rişvan tribe is a Kurdish tribe, native to the Adıyaman, Gaziantep, Kahramanmaraş and Malatya areas. Notably they reside Kahta district of Adıyaman Province, the northern part of Konya Province and southern part of Ankara Province. Some Reşvan Kurds live in Sivas, Qazvin (Iran) and Rojava (Syrian Kurdistan) as well.\n\nExperts suggest that the name Reşvan is a compound of \"reş\" (\"black\") and the Kurdish plural form \"-ân\".\nThe name of the tribe was recorded in the \"defter\" (tax register) back in 1519, when Sultan Selim I conquered Malatya and Kahta. The tribe was also mentioned in 1524 and 1536, although its numbers were not recorded. The tribe was like all other Kurdish tribes nomadic before the Ottoman Empire managed to sedentarize them, as part of the Tanzimat. The first attempt to sedentarize the tribe took place in 1830 and the process continued through Atatürk's Reforms (about 1923). During the sedentarization the Reşvan tribe was one of the biggest and most influential Kurdish tribes.\n\nIn the 1800s, some Kurds from the tribe moved to or were deported to Central Anatolia, where they today reside in many villages around Cihanbeyli, Haymana, Boztepe and Kulu. A 1859 document shows that about 500 households of the tribe lived in Haymana, Ankara, being sedentarized in 43 villages.\n\nDuring the 1890s, the leader of the tribe Yakup Ragıp from Besni protected Armenians from Ottoman massacres.\n\nThe majority of the tribe are Sunni Muslims (and a minority Alevi), inhabiting Adıyaman, Kahramanmaraş and Malatya, and tend to be conservative. The tribe mainly voted for the conservative AKP until 2014, when the well-known Reşvan Kurdish politician Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat resigned from AKP and decided to run for the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) in the local election in 2015. The leaders of the tribe decided to vote for HDP in the general election in June 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "54502177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54502177", "title": "Rolf Peter Sieferle", "text": "Rolf Peter Sieferle\n\nRolf Peter Sieferle (1949–2016) was a German historian known for applying the methodology of the social sciences to contemporary topics including ecological sustainability and social capital. He was a pioneer scholar of German environmental history. His work was wide ranging, addressing German conservatism around the period of the First World War, Karl Marx, and the fall of Communism. He was an advisor on climate change to the Angela Merkel government.\n\nSieferle came of age with the generation of 1968 as a youthful Socialist. By the 1990s, he was increasingly critical of what he viewed as naïve idealism. During the 2015 European migrant crisis, Sieferle wrote, “A society that can no longer distinguish between itself and the forces that would dissolve it is living morally beyond its means,” causing the \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" to describe him as “embittered, humorless, ever more isolated”. He committed suicide on 17 September 2016.\n\nHis Finis Germania became a bestseller following his death despite the fact that it has been denounced as an \"extremist tract\" and deemed antisemitic by the literary establishment.\n\n"}
{"id": "16514847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16514847", "title": "Ross Hassig", "text": "Ross Hassig\n\nRoss Hassig (born December 13, 1945)  is an American historical anthropologist specializing in Mesoamerican studies, particularly the Aztec culture. His focus is often on the description of practical infrastructure in Mesoamerican societies. He is the author of several influential books, among them: \"Time, History, and Belief in Aztec and Colonial Mexico\"; \"Aztec Warfare: Imperial Expansion and Political Control\"; and \"Trade, Tribute, and Transportation: The Sixteenth-Century Political Economy of the Valley of Mexico\".\n\nHassig began his academic career as an undergraduate at Vanderbilt University, where his studies initially focused on non-Western legal systems. He soon developed an interest in anthropology, later obtaining in 1974 his Master's degree from Vanderbilt in Law and Anthropology, with a thesis on political development among the Puebloan peoples at Acoma Pueblo. He then went on further his graduate studies at Stanford University, obtaining his Ph.D from the Department of Anthropology there in 1980.\n\nDuring his time at Stanford, Hassig's research agenda shifted to focus on the cultures of Mesoamerica, where he investigated the economic and political foundations of pre- and post-conquest societies. Among the first of his studies was directed towards the underpinnings of the pre-Columbian Tarascan state.\n\nFor 1989–90 he was a scholar-in-residence of Pre-Columbian Studies at Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection, with a research project entitled \"Warfare and the Mesoamerican Past\".\n\nIn 1997–98 Hassig spent a year as Resident Scholar under the Weatherhead Fellowship program at the School of American Research in Santa Fe, New Mexico, with a primary focus on researching the Aztec calendar.\n\nIn the 1999 United Kingdom academic year, Hassig was awarded one of the two residential Visiting Fellowships offered annually by the Sainsbury Research Unit at the Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts, University of East Anglia, Norwich, towards the study of 'Aztec thought and culture'.\nHassig held a chair as Professor of Anthropology at the University of Oklahoma, until 2003 when he relocated to Tucson, Arizona. Since leaving OU Hassig has remained an independent scholar and author, continuing his research into Mesoamerican cultures and state societies.\n\nHassig's published works include:\n\n \n"}
{"id": "19162777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19162777", "title": "Sylvester O'Halloran", "text": "Sylvester O'Halloran\n\nSylvester O'Halloran (31 December 1728 – 11 August 1807) was an Irish surgeon with an abiding interest in Gaelic poetry and history. For most of his life he lived and practised in Limerick, and was later elected a member of the Royal Irish Academy (RIA).\n\nO'Halloran was the third son of Michael O'Halloran, a prosperous farmer at Caherdavin, County Limerick, and his wife Mary McDonnell. He was named after Sylvester Lloyd, the titular Catholic bishop of Killaloe in 1728–39. His mother's cousin Sean Claragh McDonnell taught him much at an early age, including some Greek and Latin. He went on to a Limerick school run by Robert Cashin, a Protestant clergyman, which was unusual at the time as the O'Hallorans were Roman Catholics during the difficult time of the Penal Laws.\n\nSylvester and his brothers engaged successfully in areas of life that worked around the restrictions of the Penal Laws. Joseph became a Jesuit and held chairs in rhetoric, philosophy and divinity at the Jesuit College at Bordeaux in France. George became a jeweller and in time a property-owner. Sylvester went to London to learn medicine at the age of 17, particularly studying the methods of Richard Mead, as well as the oculists Taylor and Hillmer. After further study at Leyden, and in Paris under the anatomist and academician Antoine Ferrein, he set up practice as a surgeon in Limerick in early 1749.\n\nO'Halloran wrote several learned treatises on medical matters, and his fame was acknowledged by his membership of the RIA in 1787. He was a founder of the County Limerick Infirmary that started with 4 beds in 1761 before moving to larger premises at St Francis's Abbey in 1765. The foundation stone of the original infirmary is now preserved in the Sylvester O'Halloran Post Graduate Centre at the Mid-Western Regional Hospital, Limerick.\n\nWhile in France, he had been very impressed with the Académie Royale de Chirurgie, which had been founded in Paris in 1731 during the reign of Louis XV. He was subsequently instrumental in founding the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI), by writing its blueprint, the \"Proposals for the Advancement of Surgery in Ireland\" in 1765. In 1780 he was made an honorary member of the new \"Dublin Society of Surgeons\", and when the RCSI received its charter in 1784 he was again elected an honorary member, equivalent to a Fellowship today.\n\n\nIn his last work O'Halloran contributes to Irish social history, as the head injuries he treated were often caused by fights aggravated by alcohol abuse. On page 4 he commented:\n\nAs well as his scientific knowledge, O'Halloran's interest in the arts began with his collection of Gaelic poetry manuscripts and this led on to an interest in Irish history. Given his background, he argued to validate the pre-Norman history of Ireland which had often been dismissed as a period of barbarism.\n\nHis correspondents included Edmund Burke on early history. With Charles O'Conor of Belanagare he discussed Macpherson's translated version of Ossian, and advised him about an eye complaint.\n\nIn 1789 Charlotte Brooke published the first English-language compendium of Irish poetry, the seminal \"Reliques of Irish Poetry\", giving full due to O'Halloran for lending her his manuscript collection and for having written the essential history underlying her anthology.\n\nAs an early sympathetic historian of the Gaelic world in English, O'Halloran has faced criticism for being too sympathetic. In the 1770s a critic suggested he should: \n\nThe historian JC Beckett (1912–96) included O'Halloran among those aiming: \"to vindicate its claims by uncritical admiration for the achievements of pre-Norman Ireland.\"\n\n\nIn 1752 Sylvester married Mary Casey and they had four sons and a daughter. Their homes were in Change Lane and then on Merchants' Quay; Mary died in 1782. O'Halloran was buried in 1807 at St. Munchin's graveyard, at Killeely which is now a suburb of Limerick. One of their sons was Major-General Sir Joseph O'Halloran, the father of Thomas O'Halloran, after whom the Adelaide suburb of O'Halloran Hill was named.\n\nThough politically restricted in his life by the Penal Laws, O'Halloran helped establish the county Infirmary (see above), was elected President of the city's Free Debating Society in 1772 and was elected to a committee in 1783 that examined the Shannon navigation. Appropriately a Limerick bridge over the Shannon has been named after him.\n\n\nClaire E. Lyons, Sylvester O'Halloran's General History and the late Eighteenth-Century British Empire, Unpublished PhD Thesis NUI GALWAY 2011.\n\nClaire E. Lyons, 'An Imperial Harbinger: Sylvester O'Halloran'so General History', Irish Historical Studies 2015. \n\nClaire E. Lyons 'Playing Catholics against Protestants: Gardiner's Relief Act 1778', Eighteenth-Century Ireland/Irish an dá Chultúir 2013.\n"}
{"id": "35043850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35043850", "title": "Telugu years", "text": "Telugu years\n\nThe Telugu year is the calendar year for the Telugu speaking people of . Each Yuga (Era) has a cycle of 60 years. Each year of Ugadi year has a specific name in Panchangam (Astrnomical calendar) based on astrological influences and the name of the year would represent the character of that year. The calendar includes 60 year names. Every 60 years one name cycle completes and the names repeat in the next cycle. For example, the Telugu name for 1954 is \"jaya\", repeated in 2014. Ugadi is the Telugu new year festival that comes in the spring season (usually March or April). These years always change on Ugadi. \n\nThe sixty Ugadi year names are as follows:\n\n\nSignificance :\n\nIn ancient days Yogis (saints) interact directly with god , according to that, they have given information related to our Indian Kalachakra(time-cycle) by considering Lord Shiva(Destroyer of bad), Lord Vishnu(Manager of good and bad), Lord Bharmha(Creator of things) and Goddess Shakthi (Energy) life's span. Below is the Indian Kalachakra (time-cycle):\n\n60 years = Shashti Poorthi (For Reference : Shashti Poorthi)\n\n4,32,000 years = Kali yuga (Age of vice) (For Reference : Kali Yuga)\n\n8,64,000 years = Dwapar yuga (For Reference : Dvapara Yuga)\n\n12,96,000 years = Treta Yuga (For Reference : Treta Yuga)\n\n17,28,000 years = Sat Yuga or Krta Yuga or Krita Yuga (For Reference : Satya Yuga)\n\nTotal 43,20,000 years = 1 Maha yuga (Total 4 yugas. For Reference : Yuga)\n\n71 Maha yugas = 1 Manvantara or Manuvantara or Manvanter (For Reference : Manvantara)\n\n14 Manvantara = 1 Kalpa (For Reference : Kalpa (aeon))\n\n2 Kalpas = Lord Bhrama 1 day\n\n2000 Kalpas = Lord Bhrama's life span\n\n200 Kalpas of Lord Vishnu = Lord Shiva 1 day\n\n200 Kalpas of Lord Shiva = 1 eye blink of Lord Shakthi (Energy).\n\nFor more information : Hindu units of time.\n"}
{"id": "5762383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5762383", "title": "Timeline of the Northern Ireland Troubles and peace process", "text": "Timeline of the Northern Ireland Troubles and peace process\n\nThis article lists the major violent and political incidents during the Troubles, peace process, and a dissident campaign in Northern Ireland, from the late 1960s until the present day. The Troubles was a period of conflict in Northern Ireland involving republican and loyalist paramilitaries, the British security forces, and civil rights groups. The Troubles is usually dated from the riots of 1968 through the Good Friday Agreement of 1998. However, sporadic violence continued after this point. Those that continued violence past this point are referred to as Dissident republicans and Loyalists in the Dissident Irish Republican Campaign. The Troubles 1968-1998, claimed roughly 3500 lives while the Dissident Irish Republican Campaign 1998–present, has claimed around 150 lives.\n\nSince partition, the IRA had started a number of military operations in Northern Ireland designed at bringing about their goal of a United Ireland. The intensity of this activity increased towards the end of 1941, where the IRA decided to step up its campaign of attacks in Northern Ireland. In response to this activity the Unionist authorities under John Miller Andrews introduced internment and using provisions of the Emergency Powers Act, instituted increasingly restrictive policies in Northern Ireland. This pattern of paramilitary violence, followed by increasingly restrictive measures on the behalf of the authorities came to define the run-up to the Troubles.\n\nSince 1964, civil rights activists had been protesting against the discrimination against Catholics and Irish nationalists by the Ulster Protestant and unionist government of Northern Ireland. The civil rights movement called for: 'one man, one vote'; the end to gerrymandered electoral boundaries; the end to discrimination in employment and in the allocation of public housing; repeal of the Special Powers Act; and the disbanding of the Ulster Special Constabulary.\n\n"}
{"id": "58019628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58019628", "title": "William Henry Egle", "text": "William Henry Egle\n\nWilliam Henry Egle was a physician, author and historian who served as the State Librarian of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania from 1887 to 1889. A practicing physician at the dawn of the American Civil War, he was initially commissioned as an assistant surgeon, and then served as a surgeon with several different Union Army regiments during the course of the conflict, including the 116th Regiment Infantry, U.S. Colored Troops (USCT).\n\nPost-war, he garnered the respect of colleagues in his respective fields of endeavor, particularly so for his body of work which documented Pennsylvania's history from its founding through the late 19th century – excerpts of which continued to be reprinted in newspapers following his death in 1901 and are still cited as references by present-day historians and professional genealogists. His passing was \"deeply mourned\" by many, according to historian Luther Reily Kelker, who said of Egle, \"few brighter, nobler types of manhood have ever adorned the generations of men in the Keystone State.\"\n\nBorn in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania on September 17, 1830, William Henry Egle was a son of Pennsylvania natives John Egle (1798–1834) and Elizabeth (von Treupel) Egle (1810–1841). Reared in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, he was compelled to relocate to the home of his paternal grandmother in 1834, following the sudden death of his father. Educated initially in the county's public schools, he then spent two years at the Harrisburg Military Institute.\n\nAs a 20-year-old during the summer of 1850, he was one of several young men working as a printer for, and living with, master printer Theophilus Ferne in Harrisburg's West Ward. During his three years with the \"Pennsylvania Telegraph\", he worked his way up to become foreman and then state printer. He then began his medical studies under the training of Harrisburg physician Charles D. Bombaugh, M.D. Supporting his training through employment as a teacher and mail clerk, he enrolled in 1857 for formal studies with the medical department at the University of Pennsylvania, graduating from there in March 1859. Once back home in Harrisburg, he opened a private medical practice.\n\nIn 1860, he wed Eliza Beatty (1833–1923). The following year, they welcomed the birth of a son, Beverly Waugh Egle (1861–1882).\n\n On September 12, 1862, William H. Egle, M.D. enrolled for Civil War military service at Bakersville, Maryland, and was commissioned as an assistant surgeon with the field and staff officers' corps of the 96th Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, a position he held until resigning his commission roughly six months later. Stationed in Virginia with his regiment throughout the fall of 1862, he experienced his first true taste of life as a combat surgeon with the 96th Pennsylvania's participation in the Battle of Fredericksburg. Involved in engagements ranging from light skirmishes to intense battles under heavy rifle and artillery fire beginning on December 12, 1862, he and his fellow 96th Pennsylvanians finally found relief three days later when they were ordered back across the Rappahannock River and made camp near White Oak Church. Caring for men who were primarily assigned to fatigue duty from January through March 1863, he resigned his commission on March 9 of that year.\n\nHe was then commissioned as a surgeon at the age of 32, and enrolled on July 10, 1863 with the field and staff officers' corps of the 47th Pennsylvania Militia, Emergency of 1863. (Not to be confused with the 47th Pennsylvania Infantry, the 47th Pennsylvania Militia, Emergency of 1863 was one of a group of temporary volunteer militia units which were formed in response to the threatened invasion of Pennsylvania by Confederate troops during the summer of 1863. When the threat was deemed over by Pennsylvania's governor and senior military leaders, these units were disbanded, and their men were sent back to their respective communities.) A resident of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania at the time of his enrollment, Egle officially mustered in at Camp Curtin in Harrisburg the next day, but remained in that position only until August 14 when the entire regiment honorably mustered out. During this phase of service, the 47th Pennsylvania Militia, Emergency of 1863 was assigned to duty stations in Williamsport, Lycoming County; Reading, Berks County; and Schuylkill County, where it was ordered to dampen the rising tension between miners and Union Army recruiters.\n\nTransferred with his regiment to the U.S. Army's XXV Corps, 1st Brigade, 2nd Division in December 1864, he and his fellow 116th USCT members remained part of that command until April 1865, when the regiment was re-assigned to the XXV Corps' 3rd Brigade, 2nd Division, and saw service with the Department of Texas.\n\nAfter mustering out of the 116th USCT on November 9, 1865, he was appointed as the executive medical officer for the U.S. Army’s XXIV Corps, serving under General William Birney at Petersburg and Appomattox before being transferred to General Jackson’s division and service near Roma, Texas from June through December 1865 when he again resigned.\n\nFollowing his resignation from the military, Egle returned home to his wife and medical practice in Pennsylvania. He also embarked on what would become a prolific career as a chronicler of Pennsylvania history. Before the decade was over, he and his wife welcomed the births of daughters, Sarah Beatty (1866–1939) and Catharine Irwin (1869–1943), on July 13, 1866 and January 19, 1869, respectively. A federal census taker in 1870 confirmed that Egle was employed as a physician, and noted that he had amassed real estate and personal property valued at $15,000, , while the 1880 federal census taker described him as a \"druggist\". The latter census also noted that the Egle household included son Beverly, a 19-year-old medical student; daughters \"Sallie\" and \"Kittie\", who were both still in school; and Mary Williams (aged 45) and Mary Jones (aged 30), who were employed as domestic workers in the Egle home.\n\nThe 1870s and 1880s were productive for Egle, as he became increasingly known and respected for his historical research and writing. In 1878, Lafayette College presented him with an \"honorary degree [an A.M.] for his service in American history.\" This triumph was soon followed by tragedy, however, when Egle learned that his only son, Beverly, had died suddenly in Cook County, Illinois on June 21, 1882.\n\nIn addition to his work as an author and historian during the early to mid-1880s, William Egle was also employed as the physician for Dauphin County's prison. By 1887, he had been appointed as State Librarian for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, a position he held for the next twelve years. According to the Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania newspaper, \"The Columbian\", Egle secured the position after Pennsylvania's Republican-controlled Senate failed to approve the governor's first choice for the post, \"York Press\" editor Edward Stuck. As a result, Egle's \"term was lengthened and his salary increased in direct contravention of the provisions of the Constitution.\"\n\nOn June 4, 1896, he was one of the featured presenters at the Congress of the Scotch-Irish Society of America. Newspapers as far away as Honolulu Hawaii, reported that he spoke about \"Landmarks of Early Scotch-Irish Settlements in Pennsylvania.\"\n\nSucceeded in early 1899 in his appointment as State Librarian by the Rev. Dr. George Edward Reed, the head of Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, Egle was described as a physician shortly after the turn of the century, when a federal government employee arrived at his Harrisburg home to interview him for the 1900 U.S. Census. Still residing with him were his wife, and his daughter Catharine.\n\nSometime during the winter of 1901, Egle contracted the grippe, which then turned into pneumonia. He died from related complications in Harrisburg on February 10, 1901. Following funeral services at St. Stephen's Episcopal Church which were well attended by friends and colleagues, he was laid to rest at the Harrisburg Cemetery. John Peter Shindel Gobin, Pennsylvania's lieutenant governor at the time, served as one of his pallbearers. A 32nd degree Mason, Egle had been a member of the Robert Burns Masonic Lodge, as well as a member of the Grand Army of the Republic and past president of the Y.M.C.A.\n\nIn the days following his death, \"The Harrisburg Patriot\" described him as \"a noted physician, historian and genealogist and the author of a large number of valuable works of local and national interest.\" Additionally, for several years after his passing, his name continued to appear in newspapers across the country. In a \"this day in history\" chronology presented in its September 17, 1908 edition, the daily newspaper of Palestine, Texas listed the birth of \"William Henry Egle, historian\" as its noteworthy event for the year 1830. Two years later, a newspaper in South Dakota published \"The Blacksmith of the Revolution\", an excerpt from his \"address at the unveiling of a monument erected by the state of Pennsylvania at Newville, to William Denning, the blacksmith of the revolution, October 6, 1890.\"\n\n\n\n"}
