{"id": "33926311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33926311", "title": "Abraham Wivell", "text": "Abraham Wivell\n\nAbraham Wivell (1786-1849) was a British portrait painter, writer and pioneer of fire protection, credited with inventing the first effective fire escape system. After working as a hairdresser, Wivell established himself as a society portrait painter before concentrating his efforts on fire safety measures. \n\nBorn in Marylebone, London, Wivell was forced to work from an early age after his father died leaving his mother in poverty. He worked on a farm from the age of six, and did various jobs in London as a child. In 1799, he was apprenticed to a wigmaker, which at the time was part of normal hairdressing. After completing his seven-year apprenticeship, he set up his own hairdressing salon. \n\nInitially an amateur artist, he advertised his skills by showing portrait miniatures he had painted in his hairdressing shop window. By this means he gained commissions for portrait drawings and paintings, aided by the support of Joseph Nollekens and James Northcote. A drawing he created of Caroline of Brunswick, wife of King George IV, appealed to the queen herself, who gave Wivell a personal sitting. His link to the queen soon helped him achieve fame as an artist. When she was put of trial for adultery in the House of Lords, Wivell sneaked in among the lawyers and made sketches of the leading figures involved. These were published to illustrate the sensational case. The popular feeling in favour of Caroline led to good sales. Wivell later depicted other figures in the news, including Arthur Thistlewood, a leader of the Cato Street conspiracy.\n\nWivell subsequently became an established society portraitist, painting royalty and aristocracy. He also painted nearly 200 portraits of MPs for a view depicting the House of Commons in session, which was published as a print. Most of Wivell's portraits were highly finished works in pencil, though he did paint some oils and attempted to make some etchings.\n\nAfter visiting Stratford-upon-Avon to make a study of the tomb sculpture of Shakespeare, Wivell decided to create an illustrated study of all known portraits of the poet. In 1827 Wivell published the work under the title \"An inquiry into the history, authenticity, & characteristics of the Shakspeare portraits\". As well as a collection of prints, the book presented a detailed examination of purported Shakespeare portraits. The book also replied the arguments of an earlier work by James Boaden. Unfortunately, Wivell lost a great deal on money on the venture, as the cost of printing such a richly illustrated work far exceeded the sales. However, he was saved financially by the death of his uncle, Abram Wivell of Camden Town, who left him his house and furniture and an lifetime annuity of £100.\n\nIn the 1820s Wivell turned his attention to fire protection, arguing, along with others, that the private fire brigades of the time were more concerned with protecting property than human life. Several voluntary groups sprung up dedicated to solving this problem. In 1836 the \"Royal Society for the Protection of Life from Fire\" was created with Wivell in charge of developing techniques for helping people escape from burning buildings. Wivell designed a portable fire escape, which could be brought to buildings and erected rapidly. \n\nHe created demonstration models of the design to illustrate a series of lectures on fire-fighting that he gave in 1836. The ladder was mounted on a wheeled chariot. Once at the scene, a fly ladder was swung into position with ropes. A rescued person could be quickly passed down through a canvas chute that hung below the ladder, allowing a rapid flow of escapees. 85 fire escape stations were established in London by the society containing escape ladders on the Wivell design. Other cities also acquired Wivell's design.\n\nHe resigned his position with the society in 1841 after a dispute, and moved to Birmingham, where he resumed his artistic career. In 1847 he endorsed the authenticity of the newly discovered Ashbourne portrait, which was claimed to depict Shakespeare. In 1849 he died of Bronchitis in Birmingham. \n\nWivell was married twice and had ten children. His oldest son, also called Abraham Wivell, was also a successful painter.\n"}
{"id": "15298493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15298493", "title": "Alternative civilian service", "text": "Alternative civilian service\n\nAlternative civilian service is a form of national service performed in lieu of conscription for various reasons, such as conscientious objection, inadequate health, or political reasons. See \"labour battalion\" for examples of the latter case. Alternative service usually involves some kind of labor.\n\nAlternative civilian service is service to a government made as a civilian, particularly such service as an option for conscripted persons who are conscientious objectors and object to military service. \n\nCivilian service is usually performed in the service of non-profit governmental bodies or other institutions. For example, in Germany (before conscription was abolished), those in civilian service worked extensively in healthcare facilities and retirement homes, while other countries have a wider variety of possible placements.\n\nCommon synonyms for the term are alternative service, civilian service, non-military service and substitute service.\n\nAlternative service is often rejected by antimilitarist conscientious objectors, who still regard it as part of the military system. Many argue that it is not inconveniencing the military in any way, and in fact paints them in a good light. Moreover, in the past non-military service has often freed up people for work in the military, or enabled people to return to the military e.g. nursing. Those conscientious objectors who also reject alternative service are known as absolutists or total objectors.\n\nThe Twenty Classes was a program used by the Turkish government during World War II to conscript the male non-Turkish minority population mainly consisting of Armenians, Greeks and Jews. The prevailing and widespread point of view on the matter was that, anticipating entry to World War II, Turkey gathered in advance all unreliable non-Turkish men regarded as a potential \"fifth column\".\n\nLack of alternative service in Armenia in 2003–2004 was considered to violate freedom of religion by the European Court of Human Rights in 2011.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8914770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8914770", "title": "American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy", "text": "American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy\n\nThe American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy (ASPLP) is a learned society founded in 1955 by political theorist Carl Friedrich. The ASPLP's annual thematic conferences form the foundation for the \"Nomos\" series. The ASPLP operates according to a distinctive three-discipline structure. Its annual meetings rotate on a three-year cycle, meeting in conjunction with the Association of American Law Schools, the American Political Science Association, and the American Philosophical Association (Eastern Division). Its presidency rotates among the three disciplines, with vice-presidents always representing the other two. And its conferences consist of three lead papers, one from each discipline, each with two commentators from the other two disciplines. \n\n\"Nomos\", now published by New York University Press, has published work by some of the leading political and legal theorists of the twentieth century, from a wide range of ideological and methodological perspectives, including Hannah Arendt, Isaiah Berlin, Lon Fuller, John Rawls, Robert Nozick, Michael Walzer, Judith Shklar, Cass Sunstein, Martha Nussbaum, Richard Posner, Sheldon Wolin, James Buchanan, Catharine MacKinnon, Jules Coleman, Jean Hampton, Jon Elster, George Kateb, and Richard Epstein. The series was edited by Friedrich for volumes I-IX, coedited by J. Roland Pennock and John Chapman for volumes IX-XXXI, and edited by Chapman alone for XXXI-XXXV. Since then, series editors have included Ian Shapiro, Stephen Macedo, Melissa Williams, Sanford Levinson, and James Fleming. The series is currently co-edited by Andrew Rehfeld (Washington University Political Science) and Jack Knight (Duke Law School).\n\nPresidents of the ASPLP have included:\n\n\nThe volumes in the series, and their publishers, have been:\n\nforthcoming from New York University Press: \n\nLVI. American Conservative Thought\n\nThe volumes originally published by Atherton, Aldine-Atherton, and Lieber-Atherton are being republished by Transaction Press (starting in 2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "66064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66064", "title": "American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers", "text": "American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers\n\nThe American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers (ASCAP ) is an American not-for-profit performance-rights organization (PRO) that protects its members' musical copyrights by monitoring public performances of their music, whether via a broadcast or live performance, and compensating them accordingly.\n\nASCAP collects licensing fees from users of music created by ASCAP members, then distributes them back to its members as royalties. In effect, the arrangement is the product of a compromise: when a song is played, the user does not have to pay the copyright holder directly, nor does the music creator have to bill a radio station for use of a song.\n\nIn 2012, ASCAP collected over US$941 million in licensing fees and distributed $828.7 million in royalties to its members, with an 11.6 percent operating expense ratio. As of July 2018, ASCAP membership included over 670,000 songwriters, composers, and music publishers, with over 11 million registered works.\n\nIn the United States, ASCAP competes with four other PROs – Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI), the Society of European Stage Authors and Composers (SESAC), Global Music Rights, & Pro Music Rights.\n\nUnlike collecting societies outside the United States, ASCAP contract is non-exclusive, and although it is not so simple for a foreign person to join ASCAP, it is possible. ASCAP has an office in the United Kingdom. As the artist agreement is non-exclusive, authors can license using a creative commons license. The ASCAP bill of rights states, \"we have the right to choose when and where our creative works may be used for free\". If an author is going to use a creative commons license with another's works, this is the only author's rights organisation that has a non-exclusive contract that a foreign person can join. If an author uses a Creative Commons license and is not a member of a performing rights organisation, and the works would generate royalties, these royalties are collected and given to publishers and artists that are members of these organisations.\n\nASCAP was founded by Victor Herbert, together with composers Louis Hirsch, John Raymond Hubbell, Silvio Hein and Gustave Kerker, a lyricist Glen MacDonough, publishers George Maxwell (who served as its first president) and Jay Witmark, and a copyright attorney Nathan Burkan at the Hotel Claridge in New York City on February 13, 1914, to protect the copyrighted musical compositions of its members, who were mostly writers and publishers associated with New York City's Tin Pan Alley. ASCAP's earliest members included the era's most active songwriters—Irving Berlin, George M. Cohan, Rudolf Friml, Otto Harbach, Jerome Kern, John Philip Sousa, Alfred Baldwin Sloane, James Weldon Johnson, Robert Hood Bowers and Harry Tierney. Subsequently, many other prominent songwriters became members.\n\nIn 1919, ASCAP and the Performing Rights Society of Great Britain (since 1997 known as PRS for Music), signed the first reciprocal agreement for the representation of each other's members' works in their respective territories. Today, ASCAP has global reciprocal agreements and licenses the U.S. performances of hundreds of thousands of international music creators.\nThe advent of radio in the 1920s brought an important new source of income for ASCAP. Radio stations originally only broadcast performers live, the performers working for free. Later, performers wanted to be paid, and recorded performances became more prevalent. ASCAP started collecting license fees from the broadcasters. Between 1931 and 1939, ASCAP increased royalty rates charged to broadcasters more than 400%\n\nIn the late 1930s, ASCAP's general control over most music and its membership requirements were considered to be in restraint of trade and illegal under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. The Justice Department sued ASCAP in 1937 but abandoned the case. The Justice Department sued again in 1941, and the case was settled with a consent decree in which the most important points were that ASCAP must fairly set rates and not discriminate between customers who have basically the same requirements to license music, or \"similar standing.\" Also, anyone who is unable to negotiate satisfactory terms with ASCAP, or is otherwise unable to get a license, may go to the court overseeing the consent decree and litigate the terms they find objectionable, and the terms set by the court will be binding upon the licensee and ASCAP. BMI also signed a consent decree in 1941, although the terms were much more favorable to BMI than those applied to ASCAP.\n\nIn 1940, when ASCAP tried to double its license fees again, radio broadcasters formed a boycott of ASCAP and founded a competing royalty agency, Broadcast Music Incorporated (BMI). During a ten-month period lasting from January 1 to October 29, 1941, no music licensed by ASCAP (1,250,000 songs) was broadcast on NBC and CBS radio stations. Instead, the stations played regional music and styles (like rhythm and blues or country) that had been traditionally disdained by ASCAP. When the differences between ASCAP and the broadcasters were resolved in October 1941, ASCAP agreed to settle for a lower fee than they had initially demanded.\n\nASCAP's membership diversified further in the 1940s, bringing along jazz and swing greats, including Duke Ellington, Count Basie, Benny Goodman, and Fletcher Henderson. The movies also soared in popularity during the 1930s and 1940s, and with them came classic scores and songs by new ASCAP members like Harold Arlen, Johnny Mercer, Cole Porter, Morton Gould, and Jule Styne. Classical-music composers Aaron Copland, Igor Stravinsky, and Leonard Bernstein brought their compositions into the ASCAP repertory in the 1940s.\n\nThe rise of rock and roll derived from both country music and rhythm and blues music caused airplay of BMI licensed songs to double that of ASCAP licensed songs. ASCAP officials decided that the practice of payola was the reason. So ASCAP spearheaded a congressional investigation into the practice of payola in 1959.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, television was introduced as a new revenue stream for ASCAP, one that maintains its importance today. With the birth of FM radio, new ASCAP members, including John Denver, Jimi Hendrix, Quincy Jones, Janis Joplin, and Carly Simon scored massive hits. Many Motown hits were written by ASCAP members Ashford & Simpson, Marvin Gaye, Smokey Robinson, and Stevie Wonder. Both The Beatles and The Rolling Stones licensed their works through ASCAP, and the very first country Grammy Award went to ASCAP writer Bobby Russell for \"Little Green Apples\". During this period, ASCAP also initiated a series of lawsuits to recover the position they lost during the boycott of 1941, without success.\n\nThe early 1960s folk music revival, led by ASCAP member Bob Dylan made ASCAP a major player in that genre. Dylan's expansion into rock music later that decade gave ASCAP a foothold in that genre. At the same time, ASCAP member Shapiro, Bernstein & Co. started having country hits for ASCAP.\n\nBy 1970, a new generation of ASCAP board members decided to launch a campaign to attract more songwriters and music publishers away from BMI. The campaign led to Motown Records switching most of its music publishing from BMI to ASCAP in 1971.\n\nDuring the last three decades of the 20th century, ASCAP's membership grew to reflect every new development in music, including the funk, punk rock, heavy metal, hip-hop, techno, and grunge music genres. Creators ranging from Lauryn Hill and Dr. Dre to the Ramones, Slayer, and John Zorn joined. ASCAP launched a Latin membership department to serve ASCAP Latin writers—Marc Anthony, Joan Sebastian, and Olga Tañon among them–with the Spanish-speaking world as their audience. In 1981, ASCAP prevailed against CBS in an eleven-year-old court case challenging the ASCAP blanket license.\n\nToday, ASCAP remains one of the world's most far-reaching PROs. ASCAP licenses over 11,500 local commercial radio stations, more than 2500 non-commercial radio broadcasters and hundreds of thousands of \"general\" licensees (bars, restaurants, theme parks, etc.). It maintains reciprocal relationships with nearly 100 foreign PROs across six continents, and licenses billions of public performances worldwide each year. ASCAP was the first U.S. PRO to distribute royalties for performances on the Internet and continues to pursue and secure licenses for websites, digital music providers and other new media.\n\nASCAP honors its top members in a series of annual awards shows in seven different music categories: pop, rhythm and soul, film and television, Latin, country, Christian, and concert music. Awards are presented through a \"vote online\" that makes up 50% of the judging criteria. Other 50% came from different music critics where in addition, ASCAP inducts jazz greats to its Jazz Wall of Fame in an annual ceremony held at ASCAP's New York City offices and honors PRS members that license their works through ASCAP at an annual awards gala in London, England.\n\nIn 1979, to honor composers of concert music (Classical) in the early stages of their careers, ASCAP created The ASCAP Foundation Young Composer Awards which, upon the death of ASCAP President Morton Gould in 1996, were renamed the ASCAP Foundation Morton Gould Young Composer Awards to honor Gould's lifelong commitment to encouraging young creators as well as his own early development as a composer. (G. Schirmer published a composition by Gould when he was only six years old.) Composers under 30 apply each for cash awards which are funded through the Jack and Amy Norworth Fund. Jack Norworth wrote many Tin Pan Alley hits including the lyrics to \"Take Me Out to the Ball Game\".\n\nBeginning in 1986, ASCAP created the \"Golden Soundtrack Award\" to honor composers for \"outstanding achievements and contributions to the world of film and television music.\" In 1996, it was renamed the \"Henry Mancini Award\" to pay tribute to the late composer's history of achievements in the field.\n\nThrough its annual ASCAP Plus Awards program, ASCAP compensates those writers whose works are substantially performed in venues and media outside its surveys. An independent panel reviews the applications and makes cash awards to deserving members as well as writers whose works have a unique prestige value. Award amounts begin at $100. ASCAP is the only PRO with a cash awards program of this kind.\n\nASCAP also bestows the near-annual Deems Taylor Awards to writers and music journalists. Named after the first president of ASCAP, Deems Taylor, they were established in 1967 to honor his memory. The Deems Taylor Award \"recognizes books, articles, broadcasts and websites on the subject of music selected for their excellence.\"\n\nASCAP offers the ASCAP OnStage program, which gives ASCAP members the opportunity to get paid for live performances at ASCAP-licensed venues.\n\nStandard and Popular Awards Awarded to writers whose works have unique value, but for which adequate compensation would not otherwise be received, or whose works are performed substantially in a medium not surveyed by the society.\n\nIn April 2006, ASCAP inaugurated its annual ASCAP \"I Create Music\" EXPO, the first national conference fully dedicated to songwriting and composing. The first EXPO featured workshops, panels, mentor sessions and performances with notable figures from all music genres and sectors of the music industry. The most recent EXPO took place between April 18 and 20, 2013. Highlights included conversations between Ne-Yo & Stargate, Diplo & Big Sean and Nathan Johnson & Joseph Gordon-Levitt; Master Sessions with Steve Lillywhite, No I.D. and Nico Muhly; performances by Judy Collins and Gretchen Peters among other notable music creators and industry insiders. 2011 featured Ingrid Michaelson and Matt Wilson as part of the Writer's Jam panel.\n\nASCAP distributes to its members \"Playback\", a magazine highlighting the progress and career accomplishments of ASCAP's writer and publisher members. \"Playback\" content is also available to the general public on ASCAP's website.\n\nASCAP attracted media attention in 1996 when it threatened Girl Scouts of the USA and Boy Scouts of America camps that sang ASCAP's copyrighted works at camps with lawsuits for not paying licensing fees. These threats were later retracted. However, it has drawn negative attention for cracking down on licensing fees on other occasions as well, such as when it demanded that open mic events need to pay licensing (even if most or all of the songs are original).\n\nASCAP has also been criticized for its extremely non-transparent operations, including the refusal to release attendance records for board members, the notes from board meetings, and the reasoning behind their weighting formulas which determine how much money a song or composition earns for use on television or radio.\n\nIn 2009, an ASCAP rate court case regarding ringtones generated considerable public attention. Critics claimed that ASCAP may seek to hold consumers responsible for a ringtone public performance. In statements to the press, ASCAP noted the following:\n\n\nOn October 14, 2009, a federal court ruled that \"when a ringtone plays on a cellular telephone, even when that occurs in public, the user is exempt from copyright liability, and [the cellular carrier] is not liable either secondarily or directly.\" The ruling made clear that playing music in public, when done without any commercial purpose, does not infringe copyright. (US v. ASCAP, US District Court, Southern District of New York).\n\nFurther controversies arose involving ASCAP in 2009 and 2010. The organization requested that some websites pay licensing fees on embedded YouTube videos, even though YouTube already pays licensing fees, and demanded payment from Amazon.com and iTunes for 30-second streaming previews of music tracks, which traditionally does not require a license, being considered a promotional vehicle for song sales.\n\nIn 2009, Mike Masnik, the founder and CEO of Floor64, accused ASCAP of keeping some royalties instead of passing them on to artists. He claimed ASCAP collects royalties from all sizes of live performance on behalf of all the artists it represents but passes on the royalties only to artists whose music is represented in one of \"the top 200 grossing US tours of the year.\"\n\nIn June 2010, ASCAP sent letters to its members soliciting donations to fight entities that support weaker copyright restrictions, such as Public Knowledge, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, and Creative Commons, creating notable controversy as many argued that these licences are a form of copyright and offer the artist an extra choice. Lawrence Lessig, a co-founder of Creative Commons, responded stating that they are not aiming to undermine copyright, and invited ASCAP for a public debate. The offer was turned down by ASCAP's Paul Williams.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2213527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2213527", "title": "American rule (attorney's fees)", "text": "American rule (attorney's fees)\n\nThe American rule (capitalized as American Rule in some jurisdictions) is a legal rule controlling assessment of attorneys' fees arising out of litigation. The American rule provides that each party is responsible for paying its own attorney's fees, unless specific authority granted by statute or contract allows the assessment of those fees against the other party. The American rule contrasts with the English rule, under which the losing party pays the prevailing party's attorneys' fees.\n\nThe American rule is merely a default rule, not the blanket rule in the United States. Many statutes at both the federal and state levels allow the winner to recover reasonable attorney's fees, and there are two major exceptions in federal case law as well. Under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1), federal statutes may supersede the default rule of not awarding attorney fees. The Magnuson–Moss Warranty Act is one such federal law.\n\nSeveral states also have exceptions to the American rule in both statutes and case law. For example, in California, the Consumers Legal Remedies Act allows plaintiffs to recover attorney's fees, and in insurance bad faith cases, a policyholder may be able to recover attorney's fees as a separate component of damages. Nevada Rule of Civil Procedure 68 is unique in that a party who declines a pretrial offer of judgment (essentially a settlement offer) and fails to obtain a better result at trial is liable for all reasonable attorney's fees and costs incurred by the offeror after the time the offer was given.\n\nIn May 2017, the state of Oklahoma unintentionally removed the American rule for all civil cases not involving real property. House Bill 1470 was originally intended to increase the age at which victims of child sexual abuse could sue their abusers from 20 to 45. An amendment removing the American rule was added before the bill passed both houses of the legislature and was signed into law by Governor Mary Fallin. According to the original author of the Senate's version of the bill, the amendment was initially believed to apply only to losers of civil cases involving child sexual abuse, but the scope of the amendment proved far greater than many legislators intended. The new law took effect on November 1, 2017, and a spokesperson for Fallin said that legislators had several options for correcting the apparent error before that time.\n\nThe rationale for the American rule is that people should not be discouraged from seeking redress for perceived wrongs in court or from trying to extend coverage of the law. The rationale continues that society would suffer if a person was unwilling to pursue a meritorious claim merely because that person would have to pay the defendant's expenses if they lost.\n\n"}
{"id": "7679306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7679306", "title": "Benjamin Kaplan", "text": "Benjamin Kaplan\n\nBenjamin Kaplan (April 11, 1911 – August 18, 2010) was an American copyright scholar and jurist. He was also notable as \"one of the principal architects\" of the Nuremberg trials.\n\nKaplan grew up in the South Bronx, graduating from DeWitt Clinton High School at the age of 14. He then attended City College, graduating in 1929 at the age of 18, and Columbia Law School in 1933, and engaged in private practice until 1942 when he joined the Army.\n\nIn 1945, while a Lieutenant Colonel in the Army, Kaplan joined the prosecution team developing the case against the Nazi war criminals. Kaplan supervised the research and developed legal strategies for the case. In 1947 he joined the faculty at Harvard Law School.\n\nKaplan co-wrote the first casebook on copyright, with Yale Law School Professor Ralph Brown in 1960. As the Royall Professor of Law at Harvard Law School, he delivered a series of lectures at Columbia Law in 1966. The James S. Carpentier Lectures were then published in 1967 as \"An Unhurried View of Copyright\". Kaplan also served on the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court from 1972–1981 and later on the Massachusetts Appeals Court.\n\nAmong Kaplan's students at Harvard were future U.S. Supreme Court Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer, the latter of whose views on copyright appear to have been influenced by those of Judge Kaplan. Among his former law clerks are the influential scholar Cass Sunstein and First Amendment attorney Marjorie Heins.\n\nIn 1942 Kaplan married to Felicia Lamport (1916 – 23 December 1999), a political satirist and writer of light verse. The couple had two children. Kaplan died of pneumonia in his Cambridge, Massachusetts home on August 18, 2010 at 99 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "45179201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45179201", "title": "Bowe v R", "text": "Bowe v R\n\nBowe v R is a 2006 Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC) case in which it was held that it was unconstitutional in the Bahamas for capital punishment to be the mandatory sentence for murder. The JCPC held that because the Constitution of the Bahamas contains a qualified right to life and prohibits \"inhuman or degrading punishment\", following a murder conviction, a trial judge must have discretion to impose a lesser penalty than death by hanging; capital punishment may be applied only in those cases that contain aggravating factors as compared to other murder cases.\n\nThe result in the case reflected the findings \"R v Hughes\", \"Fox v R\", and \"Reyes v R\", 2002 JCPC rulings from other Caribbean jurisdictions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50913636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50913636", "title": "Buyout clause", "text": "Buyout clause\n\nA buyout clause or release clause refers to a clause in a contract that imposes an obligation on another organisation wishing to acquire the services of the employee under contract to pay the (usually substantial) fee of the clause to the organisation which issued the contract and 'owns' the employee.\n\nIt is most commonly used in reference to sports teams, where a transfer fee is usually paid for a player under contract; however, the current owning club is not obliged to sell their player, and if an agreement on a suitable fee cannot be reached, the buying club can instead resort to paying the player's buyout fee – should their contract have such a clause – which the owning club cannot block. Usually this is a higher amount than the player's expected market value, although on occasion a player at a smaller club will sign a contract but insist on a low buyout fee to attract bigger clubs if their performances generate interest.\n\nThe aim of this clause is twofold; firstly with its high amount, competing teams are discouraged from attempting to acquire the player if the current club shows no signs of selling them, and secondly it raises any hint to the players not to go through with their contractual commitment.\n\nIn Spain, buyout clauses have been mandatory in football contracts since 1985. If wishing to rescind their contract, the players are required to pay the buyout fee to their current club personally (via the league body), which would be advanced to them by the club signing them; however this advance of funds was originally deemed by the Spanish government to be taxable income, requiring the buying club to pay income tax on top of the fee itself, with the prohibitively high costs involved in this dual transaction discouraging clubs from making such deals. In October 2016 the laws were changed, with the buyout fee advances to the players no longer subject to tax, meaning only the fee itself had to be paid.\n\nAs of November 2017, the five largest buyout clauses were those of association football players Cristiano Ronaldo and player Karim Benzema of Real Madrid (€1 billion each) – Ronaldo subsequently moved to Juventus (a deal not involving the buyout fee); Isco and Marco Asensio (also Real Madrid, €700 million each), and that of FC Barcelona player Lionel Messi (also €700 million).\n\nOn 3 August 2017, Paris Saint-Germain activated the buyout clause of Brazilian footballer Neymar from FC Barcelona, which was set at €222 million, making him the most expensive football player in history, ahead of the previous record set by Paul Pogba (€105 million) in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "2177793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2177793", "title": "California Alien Land Law of 1913", "text": "California Alien Land Law of 1913\n\nThe California Alien Land Law of 1913 (also known as the Webb-Haney Act) prohibited \"aliens ineligible for citizenship\" from owning agricultural land or possessing long-term leases over it, but permitted leases lasting up to three years. It affected the Chinese, Indian, Japanese, and Korean immigrant farmers in California. Implicitly, the law was primarily directed at the Japanese. It passed thirty-five to two in the Senate and seventy-two to three in the Assembly and was co-written by attorney Francis J. Heney and California state attorney general Ulysses S. Webb at the behest of Governor Hiram Johnson. Japan's Consul General Kametaro Iijima and lawyer Juichi Soyeda lobbied against the law. In a letter to the United States Secretary of State, the Japanese government via the Japanese Minister of Foreign Affairs called the law “essentially unfair and inconsistent… with the sentiments of amity and good neighborhood which have presided over the relations between the two countries,” and noted that Japan felt it was “in disregard of the spirit of the existing treaty between Japan and the United States.” The law was meant to discourage immigration from Asia, and to create an inhospitable climate for immigrants already living in California.\n\nThe California Alien Land Law of 1920 continued the 1913 law while filling many of its loopholes. Among the loopholes filled were that the leasing of land for a period of three years or less was no longer allowed; owning of stock in companies that acquired agricultural land was forbidden; and guardians or agents of ineligible aliens were required to submit an annual report on their activities. The 1920 Alien Land Law was passed in reaction to the intensification of anti-Japanese sentiment, and to the fact that the 1913 Alien Land Law was doing little to stem Japanese immigration to California. The law was approved by the voters after being proposed by the California State Legislature. It passed with a vote of 668,438 to 222,086. The 1920 law was amended in 1923 to further fill wording-related loopholes.\n\nIn 1923, the laws were upheld in the United States Supreme Court and were determined not to be in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe 1946 Supreme Court of California case \"People v. Oyama\" reaffirmed the 1923 decision, determining that Japanese immigrant Kajiro Oyama had attempted to evade the Alien Land Laws by purchasing farmland that he placed in the name of his son, who was a U.S. citizen. In fact, Oyama’s petition to be named as his son’s guardian in order to have authority over the land had been approved by a local court. This method was a major way in which the Japanese were able to acquire agricultural land during this period, since most other options were closed to them. The case was then reviewed by the United States Supreme Court in \"Oyama v. California\" after petitioning by the Oyamas and their supporters. The majority opinion held that Fred Oyama’s rights as a U.S. citizen to take and hold property had been violated by the state of California. The decision was arguably instrumental in helping to bring about a shift in attitudes toward the Japanese and their property rights.\n\nThe Alien Land Laws were invalidated in 1952 by the Supreme Court of California as a violation of the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution in \"Sei Fujii v. California\". Fujii was a longtime Los Angeles resident, but was not a U.S. citizen. He alleged that the law violated the California and United States Constitutions, and that it also went against the spirit of the United Nations Charter to which the United States was bound by treaty. The California District Court of Appeal had decided in 1950 that the Alien Land Law was in violation of Articles 55 and 56 of the United Nations Charter. The Supreme Court of California then ordered the case transferred for hearing and settlement, as it was determined to be a sufficiently important question of law.\n\nLeading up to the passage of the 1913 Alien Land Law, there had been growing anti-Asian prejudice in California and in the United States in general, first against the Chinese during the 19th century, culminating with the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, and then against the Japanese during the 20th century. Anti-Japanese sentiment was often expressed in terms of the racist Yellow Peril argument.\n\nIn 1900, there was an influx of over 12,000 Japanese immigrants to the U.S. mainland, many just released from indentured labor with Hawaii’s 1898 annexation. California was a main settlement location for Japanese immigrants to the United States, and many began to relocate to rural areas after initially settling in cities. Farming became the major economic foundation for the Japanese population in California, and they saw it as a way to prove their productive abilities and establish a sense of permanency in their new nation. Gradually, many moved from farm labor into production through truck farming and usually filled the niche market for perishable crops.\n\nThe sudden increases in Japanese immigration during this and subsequent years spurred many anti-Japanese political and organizational movements in California, and the introduction of anti-Asian legislation to the California legislature, all of which had an influence on public sentiment. Many workers returning from the World War I effort felt that the Japanese were infringing on their job opportunities. In addition, some feared that the Japanese were attempting to overtake white control of California’s farmland. The Los Angeles Times newspaper and groups such as the Anti-Asiatic Association were vocal instigators of the anti-Japanese movement. In 1908, the United States and Japan agreed to limitations on Japanese migration to the United States, with Japan agreeing that it would stop the issuing of passports to persons intending to migrate as laborers who had no established future residence in the United States or no family members already in the United States.\n\nThe Japanese possessed the right to lease and own land in the United States for residential and commercial use based on the 1911 American treaty with Japan. In 1910, most Japanese were working in the agricultural and fishing industries. Rights to agricultural land, unprotected by treaty, thus became the focus for the Alien Land Laws as state-level deterrents to immigration were sought in a dearth of national-level involvement.\n\nThe Japanese presence in California as agricultural laborers and tenant farmers experienced rapid growth during the first two decades of the 20th century. They filled a labor void in farming previously occupied by the Chinese, whose numbers had sharply declined with the passage of the Chinese Exclusion Act. Especially through tenant farming, Japanese families hoped to save enough money to eventually purchase their own land. Though it was meant to decrease immigration, the 1913 law likely had relatively little actual impact on Japanese farmers, and in fact, after the passage of the 1913 law, their numbers rose. By 1915, three-quarter of the vegetables consumed by Los Angeles residents were grown by Japanese.\n\nThere is not complete agreement about the effects of the 1920 law. It is thought by some to have had a significant negative impact on Japanese involvement in agriculture. For example, the amount of agricultural land controlled by Japanese decreased by approximately 40 percent between 1920 and 1930, and total acres farmed by Japanese persons declined by 47 percent. During the 1920s, there was a general decline in the agricultural economy in California and elsewhere in the United States, which would have partially contributed to the sudden downturn in Japanese farming. Many Japanese were also able to evade the law, often by claiming to be farm “managers.” There were at least sixteen prosecutions of Japanese for violations of the Alien Land Law from 1920 to 1940, but there were likely many more. Despite the fact that the Alien Land Laws made farming more difficult for them, the Japanese still managed to maintain a fairly high level of economic success in the agricultural industry. In 1915, Japanese Foreign Minister Komei Kato likely spoke for many Japanese when he expressed the sentiment that Japanese immigrants were dismayed by being singled out in such a fashion by the Alien Land Law legislation.\n\nThe laws are widely held to have been discriminatory measures specifically targeting the Japanese, spurred by fears about the increasing number of Japanese immigrants settling in California. The choice to apply the laws only to those aliens ineligible for citizenship rather than to all aliens meant that European aliens would not be affected. Because of this, the bill was decidedly directed at Asians and specifically at the Japanese, who had become a strong presence in the agricultural labor market as well as in the control of farms. The Alien Land Laws were part of a larger trend of attempted discrimination against the Japanese through policy in California during the early 20th century.\n\nEight other American states passed restrictive land-ownership laws during the years 1913–25. These states were Arizona, Washington, Texas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Idaho, Montana, and Oregon. Arkansas, Minnesota, Nebraska, Utah, and Wyoming followed with the passage of Alien Land Laws during the World War II years.\n\nFlorida is the only state that has not repealed its Alien Land Law. The 1926 amendment is buried in a proviso to the 'Basic Rights' paragraph of the Florida Constitution (Article 1, Section 2):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56000966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56000966", "title": "Carroll Seron", "text": "Carroll Seron\n\nCarroll Seron is an American sociologist and Professor of Criminology, Law & Society at the University of California, Irvine (UCI). Her research focuses on legal organizations and professions. She has also studied gender disparities in engineering employment, arguing that they are due to gender bias in stereotypes and engineering culture.\n\nSeron received her B.A. in American studies from the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1970, followed by an M.A. (1974) and Ph.D. (1976) from New York University, both in sociology. She joined the faculty of UCI as a full professor in 2005. From 2011 to 2012, she was a visiting professor at Flinders University and the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies. From 2012 to 2014, she was the chair of UCI's Chair of the Department of Criminology, Law and Society, of which she served as Interim Dean from 2015 to 2016. She was the editor-in-chief of \"Law & Society Review\" for its 42nd, 43rd, and 44th volumes. With her UCI colleague Charis Kubrin, she co-edited a special issue of the \"Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science\".\n\nSeron was the chair of the American Sociological Association's Sociology of Law Section from 2008 to 2009, and served as president of the Law and Society Association from 2014 to 2015.\n"}
{"id": "1755761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1755761", "title": "Constitutio Antoniniana", "text": "Constitutio Antoniniana\n\nThe Constitutio Antoniniana (Latin for: \"Constitution [or Edict] of Antoninus\") (also called the Edict of Caracalla or the Antonine Constitution) was an edict issued in 212, by the Roman Emperor Caracalla declaring that all free men in the Roman Empire were to be given theoretical Roman citizenship and that all free women in the Empire were to be given the same rights as Roman women.\n\nBefore 212, for the most part only inhabitants of Italy held full Roman citizenship. Colonies of Romans established in other provinces, Romans (or their descendants) living in provinces, the inhabitants of various cities throughout the Empire, and small numbers of local nobles (such as kings of client countries) held full citizenship also. Provincials, on the other hand, were usually non-citizens, although some held the Latin Right.\n\nThe \"Digest\" of Roman jurist Ulpian ( 170223) states, \"All persons throughout the Roman world were made Roman citizens by an edict of the Emperor Antoninus Caracas,\" (D. 1.5.17).\n\nThe context of the decree is still subject to discussion. According to historian and politician Cassius Dio ( 155 AD 235 AD), the main reason Caracalla passed the law was to increase the number of people available to tax. In the words of Cassius Dio: \"This was the reason why he made all the people in his empire Roman citizens; nominally he was honoring them, but his real purpose was to increase his revenues by this means, inasmuch as aliens did not have to pay most of these taxes.\" However, few of those that gained citizenship were wealthy, and while it is true that Rome was in a difficult financial situation, it is thought that this could not have been the sole purpose of the edict. It should also be noted that Cassius Dio generally saw Caracalla as a bad, contemptible emperor.\n\nAnother goal may have been to increase the number of men able to serve in the legions, as only full citizens could serve as legionaries in the Roman Army. In scholarly interpretations that agree with a model of moral degeneration as the reason for the fall of the Roman Empire, most famously the model followed by British historian Edward Gibbon, the edict came at the cost to the auxiliaries, which primarily consisted of non-citizen men, and led to barbarization of the Roman military. \n\nAdditionally, before the edict, one of the main ways to acquire Roman citizenship was to enlist in the Roman Army, the completion of service in which would give the citizenship to the discharged soldier. The edict may have made enlistment in the army less attractive to most, and perhaps the recruiting difficulties of the Roman army by the end of the 3rd century were related to this .\n\nIn the analyses of more recent scholars, the \"Constitutio Antoniniana\" marks a major milestone in the provincialisation of Roman law, meaning that the gap between private law in the provinces and private law in Italy narrowed. This is because, in granting citizenship to all men in the provinces, much private law had to be re-written to conform with the law that applied to Roman citizens in Rome. To these scholars, it therefore also marks the beginning of a process by which imperial constitutions became the primary source of Roman law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20501621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20501621", "title": "Deletionism and inclusionism in Wikipedia", "text": "Deletionism and inclusionism in Wikipedia\n\nDeletionism and inclusionism are opposing philosophies that largely developed within the community of editors of the online encyclopedia Wikipedia. The terms reflect differing opinions on the appropriate scope of the encyclopedia and corresponding tendencies either to delete or to include a given encyclopedia article. Inclusionism and deletionism represent the poles of a spectrum of views, with adherents tending toward either a more relaxed or a more restrictive understanding of Wikipedia's concept of notability. Many users do not identify strongly with either position.\n\n\"Deletionists\" are proponents of selective coverage and removal of articles seen as unnecessary or highly substandard. Deletionist viewpoints are commonly motivated by a desire that Wikipedia be focused on and cover significant topics – along with the desire to place a firm cap upon proliferation of promotional use (seen as abuse of the website), trivia, and articles which are, in their opinion, of no general interest, lack suitable source material for high quality coverage, or are too short or otherwise unacceptably poor in quality.\n\n\"Inclusionists\" are proponents of broad retention, including retention of \"harmless\" articles and articles otherwise deemed substandard to allow for future improvement. Inclusionist viewpoints are commonly motivated by a desire to keep Wikipedia broad in coverage with a much lower entry barrier for topics covered – along with the belief that it is impossible to tell what knowledge might be \"useful\" or productive, that content often starts poor and is improved if time is allowed, that there is effectively no incremental cost of coverage, that arbitrary lines in the sand are unhelpful and may prove divisive, and that goodwill requires avoiding arbitrary deletion of others' work. Some extend this to include allowing a wider range of sources such as notable blogs and other websites.\n\nTo the extent that an official stance exists at 2010, it is that \"There is no practical limit to the number of topics it can cover\" but \"there is an important distinction between what \"can\" be done, and what \"should\" be done\", the latter being the subject of the policy \"\". The policy concludes \"Consequently, this policy is not a free pass for inclusion\".\n\nDue to concerns about vandalism and appropriateness of content, most wikis require policies regarding inclusion. Wikipedia has developed spaces for policy and conflict resolution regarding the disputes for individual articles. These debates, which can be initiated by anyone, take place on an \"Articles for deletion\" page (often referred to by editors as an AfD). Much discussion concerns not only the content of each article in question, but also \"differing perspectives on how to edit an ideal encyclopedia.\"\n\nAt the end of each debate, an administrator judges the community consensus. Articles that do not require debate can be flagged and deleted without debate by administrators. If the administrator's decision is disputed, then the discussion can be taken to \"deletion review,\" where the community discusses the administrator's decision. In controversial cases, the debates can spread to other places on the Internet.\n\nA 2006 estimate was that pages about Wikipedia governance and policy entries were one of the fastest-growing areas of Wikipedia and contained about one quarter of its content.\n\nThe \"Association of Inclusionist Wikipedians\" and the \"Association of Deletionist Wikipedians\" were founded by administrators. Each has a Wikimedia page listing their respective members, charters and principles. While written in humorous tones, they reveal the perceived importance of Wikipedia held by the members.\n\nInclusionists may argue that the interest of a few is a sufficient condition for the existence of an article, since such articles are harmless and there is no restriction on space in Wikipedia. Favoring the idiosyncratic and subjective, an inclusionist slogan is \"Wikipedia is not paper.\"\n\nOn the other hand, deletionists favor objectivity and conformity, holding that \"Wikipedia is not Google,\" a \"junkyard,\" or \"a dumping ground for facts.\" They argue that the interest of \"enough\" people is a necessary condition for article quality, and articles about trivial subjects damage the credibility and future success of Wikipedia. They advocate the establishment and enforcement of specific standards and policies as a form of jurisprudence.\n\nAccording to veteran contributor Geoff Burling, newer members are less likely to have helped delete articles that should have been kept on hindsight, and so exercise less caution. Journalism professor K.G. Schneider has identified the mentality of deletionism as having manifested once the emphasis of the encyclopaedia shifted from quantity to quality.\n\nA \"Wikimorgue\", in which all deleted articles and their edit histories would be retained, has been suggested as a means to provide . A website, Deletionpedia, in fact now has a file of representative deleted pages from February to September 2008.\n\nIn an effort to promote a middle ground between the two philosophies, the \"Association of Mergist Wikipedians\" was created in November 2004, emphasizing the possibility of merging articles together as an alternative to both outright deletion of content and the retention of separate articles for less important subjects. A merge from one article to another is executed by moving the relevant content from the former to the latter, and redirecting the former to the latter.\n\nDocumentarian Jason Scott has noted the large amount of wasted effort that goes into deletion debates. Deletion debates may contribute to community disintegration, restriction of information, or a decrease in the rate of article creation that suggests a decrease in passion and motivation amongst editors. Being explicitly called an inclusionist or deletionist can sidetrack the issue from the actual debate. Nevertheless, some have observed that the interaction between the two groups may actually result in an enhancement of overall quality of content.\n\nStartup accelerator and angel investor Y Combinator co-founder Paul Graham has written on a page listing \"Startup Ideas We'd Like to Fund\" that deletionists rule Wikipedia:\n\nDeletionists rule Wikipedia. Ironically, they're constrained by print-era thinking. What harm does it do if an online reference has a long tail of articles that are only interesting to a few people, so long as everyone can still find whatever they're looking for? There is room to do to Wikipedia what Wikipedia did to Britannica.\n\nNovelist Nicholson Baker recounted how an article on the beat poet Richard Denner was deleted as \"nonnotable\", and criticised the behaviour of vigilante editors on Wikipedia in \"New York Review of Books\". The article has since been restored.\nSuch debates have sparked the creation of websites critical of Wikipedia such as Wikitruth, which watches for articles in risk of deletion. Wikinews editor Brian McNeil has been quoted as saying that every encyclopedia experiences internal battles, the difference being that those of Wikipedia are public.\n\nIn 2009, Wikipedia began to see a reduction in the number of edits to the site, which some called a result of user frustration due to excessive deletionism.\n\nSpecific cases of disputes between deletionists and inclusionists have attracted media coverage.\n\nThe article on South African restaurant Mzoli's was nominated for deletion after being created by Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales, who said that supporters of deletion displayed \"shockingly bad faith behavior.\" The article was kept after a multitude of editors helped work on it. The consequence is that while inclusionists can say the deleting administrator crossed the line, deletionists can say that the process works as notability was established.\n\nIn February 2007, the nomination of the Terry Shannon article for deletion was ridiculed by \"The Inquirer\".\n\nThe deletion of the biography of television anchor Susan Peters, the article for the Pownce website and Ruby programmer Why the lucky stiff also sparked controversy.\n\nComic book and science fiction/fantasy novel writer Peter David became involved in a November 2009 discussion on the deletion of actor Kristian Ayre's Wikipedia biography. David took issue with the quality of the discussion and what he perceived as deletionism on the part of some of the project's editors. He wrote about the experience in his \"But I Digress ...\" column in \"Comics Buyer's Guide\" #1663 (March 2010), remarking that \"Wikipedia, which has raised the trivial to the level of art form, actually has cut-off lines for what's deemed important enough to warrant inclusion.\" In attacking the practice in general, David focused on the process by which the merits of Ayre's biography were discussed prior to its deletion, and what he described as inaccurate arguments that led to that result. Referring to the processes by which articles were judged suitable for inclusion as \"nonsensical, inaccurate and flawed\", David provided information about Ayre with the expressed purpose that it would lead to the article's recreation. The article was recreated on January 20, 2010.\n\nWikipedia co-founder Larry Sanger identified himself as an inclusionist, except on certain topics pertaining to sexuality, for his Citizendium project. Wikimedia Foundation executive director Katherine Maher also identifies as inclusionist.\n\nAndrew Lih, a deletionist-turned-inclusionist, observes a cultural shift from Wikipedia's initial expansion in that it has become more cautious. He changed his position when an article he created about the social networking website Pownce was speedily deleted by another administrator as advertising.\n\nIn July 2006, \"The Inquirer\" was offended by claims made by certain Wikipedia editors that it conspired with Everywhere Girl to create her phenomenon. They observed an apparent campaign to remove all references to Everywhere Girl on Wikipedia. Later, they found it contrary to common sense that what became included on Wikipedia was their series of reports on the deletions of the Wikipedia article.\n\nIn December 2006, writer and composer Matthew Dallman found that Wikipedia's biography of him was under debate, and became drawn to the vote counts. He was deciding to not participate on his own behalf due to Wikipedia's apparent dislike of self-promotion, saying that \"It's like I'm on trial and I can't testify,\" though he would not be able to resist the urge.\n\nAndrew Klein was disappointed that the article on his webcomic Cake Pony was deleted, despite his claims that the \"article contains valuable and factual information about a popular internet meme.\" He conceded that \"it's their site and you've got to play by their rules.\" Many other webcomic-related articles were deleted in fall 2006 to criticism by their artists.\n\nSlate.com and \"The Wall Street Journal\" writer Timothy Noah documented his \"career as an encyclopedia entry,\" and questioned the need for rules on notability in addition to rules on verifiability.\n\nAt the 2005 Digital Arts and Culture Conference, the two groups were discussed as examples among \"Eventualism\" and \"Immediatism\" in a successful large-scale architecture of participation.\n\nThe (National Institute for Educational Research) in France, in case studies of Wikipedia, reported that while it was difficult to measure the influence of the groups as of April 2006, their existence is indicative of Wikipedia's internal dynamics consisting of multiple identities, and may play progressively increasing roles.\n\nDeletion debates over an article on Enterprise 2.0 sparked a study by the Harvard Business School.\n\nIn the journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, a study of Wikipedia social dynamics, called inclusionism and deletionism the two most prominent associations within Wikipedia. They observe that users in the same role (administrator, etc.) may hold different perspectives, and that \"the diversity of member [information quality] preferences and the low cost of forming or switching associations may encourage schism in an existing association or evolution of new groups.\" At the same time, the associations may help to better critique existing policies and to find and achieve points of convergence.\n\nSince each language Wikipedia sets its own notability standards, these have in some cases diverged substantially. The German Wikipedia is said by one journalist to be dominated by \"exclusionists\" whereas the English Wikipedia is \"inclusionist\"; although it is pointed out that the English Wikipedia has for several years required users to create accounts to create articles, which German Wikipedia does not. A debate in late 2009 over inclusion of several articles led to criticism in the German blogosphere of such vehemence and volume that the German Wikimedia held a meeting with several bloggers and German Wikipedia administrators regarding the German Wikipedia's notability criteria, and issued a press statement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1712885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1712885", "title": "District of Columbia Court of Appeals v. Feldman", "text": "District of Columbia Court of Appeals v. Feldman\n\nDistrict of Columbia Court of Appeals v. Feldman, 460 U.S. 462 (1983), was a case decided by the United States Supreme Court in which the Court enunciated a rule of civil procedure known as the Rooker-Feldman doctrine (also named for the earlier case of \"Rooker v. Fidelity Trust Co.\", 263 U.S. 413 (1923). The doctrine holds that lower United States federal courts may not sit in direct review of state court decisions.\n\nThe U.S. Congress enacted several pieces of legislation with respect to Washington, D.C.'s local judicial system. One required final judgments from the District of Columbia Court of Appeals to be treated like final judgments from the high court of any state; another permitted that Court of Appeals to create rules governing the qualifications and admissions of attorneys to practice in the D.C. courts. The Court of Appeals then passed rules requiring applicants to the D.C. bar to have graduated from an ABA-accredited law school.\n\nThe plaintiffs - Feldman and Hickey - were practicing attorneys from other states, but neither had graduated from ABA-accredited law schools. Feldman had been admitted to the Virginia bar through an apprenticeship, and had been admitted to the Maryland bar through a waiver of their requirements, based on his personal experience. Feldman was denied admission by the Committee on Admissions of the District of Columbia Bar, so he sought a similar waiver of the D.C. rule, sending a letter to the D.C. Court of Appeals that suggested that their absolute prohibition of lawyers who had not attended certain schools was a violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act, and of the Fourteenth Amendment. Nevertheless, the D.C. Courts issued an opinion confirming that they would not waive their requirement. Hickey had a similar background, but did not suggest that the D.C. Court of Appeals was in violation of any laws.\n\nThe plaintiff then filed an action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, which denied jurisdiction based on \"Rooker\"'s prohibition against federal courts hearing appeals of state court judgments. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia reversed, saying that this was not the kind of judicial determination that a federal court would be barred from hearing on appeal from a decision of a state court.\n\nThe Supreme Court considered in this case whether the district court had jurisdiction to review this decision, which required an inquiry into whether the decision to be reviewed is a \"judicial\" decision, or one that is merely administrative.\n\nThe Supreme Court, in an opinion by Justice Brennan, held that the District Court had properly dismissed the case for lack of jurisdiction to hear an appeal of the highest court in a state. The denial of a waiver for admission to the bar, an evaluation of specific facts in light of an existing rule of law, was a judicial determination, only appealable to the Supreme Court.\n\nThe Court noted, however, that a facial challenge to the constitutionality of the law would not be considered a review of anything that had been decided by the D.C. Court of Appeals, and remanded this question to the lower court.\n\nJustice Stevens dissented, noting that each plaintiff had asked the Court of Appeals to exercise \"administrative\" discretion by waiving the requirements, but neither plaintiff had actually sought review of the rule of law itself. Although Feldman had suggested that the rule was in violation of the law, he had not asked for the Court of Appeals to rule that it was, but had merely indicated a challenge that he might bring in the federal district court.\n\n"}
{"id": "158284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158284", "title": "Domain name registry", "text": "Domain name registry\n\nA domain name registry is a database of all domain names and the associated registrant information in the top level domains of the Domain Name System (DNS) of the Internet that allow third party entities to request administrative control of a domain name. Most registries operate on the top-level and second-level of the DNS.\n\nA registry operator, sometimes called a network information center (NIC) maintains all administrative data of the domain and generates a zone file which contains the addresses of the nameservers for each domain. Each registry is an organization that manages the registration of domain names within the domains for which it is responsible, controls the policies of domain name allocation, and technically operates its domain. It may also fulfill the function of a domain name registrar, or may delegate that function to other entities.\n\nDomain names are managed under a hierarchy headed by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), which manages the top of the DNS tree by administrating the data in the root nameservers.\n\nIANA also operates the int registry for intergovernmental organizations, the arpa zone for protocol administration purposes, and other critical zones such as root-servers.net.\n\nIANA delegates all other domain name authority to other domain name registries.\n\nCountry code top-level domains (ccTLD) are delegated by IANA to national registries such as DENIC in Germany and Nominet in the United Kingdom.\n\nSome name registries are government departments (e.g., the registry for India \"gov.in\"). Some are co-operatives of Internet service providers (such as DENIC) or not-for profit companies (such as Nominet UK). Others operate as commercial organizations, such as the US registry (\"nic.us\").\n\nThe allocated and assigned domain names are made available by registries by use of the WHOIS system and via their Domain name servers.\n\nSome registries sell the names directly, and others rely on separate entities to sell them. For example, names in the .com TLD are in some sense sold \"wholesale\" at a regulated price by VeriSign, and individual domain name registrars sell names \"retail\" to businesses and consumers.\n\nHistorically, domain name registries operated on a first-come-first-served system of allocation but may reject the allocation of specific domains on the basis of political, religious, historical, legal or cultural reasons.\n\nFor example, in the United States, between 1996 and 1998, InterNIC automatically rejected domain name applications based on a list of perceived obscenities.\n\nRegistries may also control matters of interest to their local communities: for example, the German, Japanese and Polish registries have introduced internationalized domain names to allow use of local non-ASCII characters.\n\nDomains which are registered with ICANN registrars, generally have to use the Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy (UDRP), however, Germany's DENIC requires people to use the German civil courts, and Nominet UK deals with Intellectual Property and other disputes through its own dispute resolution service.\n\nDomain name registries may also impose a system of third-level domains on users.\nDENIC, the registry for Germany (.de), does not impose third level domains. AFNIC, the registry for France (.fr), has some third level domains, but not all registrants have to use them.\n\nMany ccTLDs have moved from compulsory third or fourth-level domain to the availability of registrations of second level domains. Among them are .us (April 2002), .mx (May 2009), .co (March 2010)., and .uk (June 2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "140272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140272", "title": "Drago Doctrine", "text": "Drago Doctrine\n\nThe Drago Doctrine was announced in 1902 by Argentine Minister of Foreign Affairs Luis María Drago in a diplomatic note to the United States.\n\nPerceiving a conflict between the Monroe Doctrine and the influence of European imperial powers, and raising attention to the principle of sovereign equality that the United States had long supported, it set forth the policy that no foreign power, including the United States, could use force against a nation in Latin America to collect debt.\n\nIn 1904, the Roosevelt Corollary was issued by the United States in response to the Drago Doctrine and asserted the right of the United States to intervene Latin America in the interests of American business and Latin American independence from European powers.\n\nA modified version, known as the Porter Convention after Horace Porter, was adopted at The Hague in 1907 and added that arbitration and litigation should always be used first.\n\nIt grew from the ideas expressed by Carlos Calvo in \"Derecho internacional teórico y práctico de Europa y América\", commonly known as the Calvo Doctrine. The Calvo Doctrine proposed to prohibit diplomatic intervention before local resources were exhausted. \n\nThe Drago Doctrine itself was a response to the actions of Britain, Germany, and Italy, which, in 1902, had blockaded and shelled ports in response to Venezuela's massive debt that had been acquired under governments before President Cipriano Castro. Secretary of State John Hay was taken aback by the reference to the Monroe Doctrine and delayed six weeks before responding by quoting Theodore Roosevelt's 1901 annual message to Congress: \"We do not guarantee any state against punishment if it misconducts itself.\"\n\nRoosevelt himself, although he would lavish praise on Drago's doctrine in later years, had earlier written in his capacity as Vice President to the German diplomat Hermann Speck von Sternburg that \"if any South American State misbehaves towards any European country, let the European country spank it.\"\n\nThe Drago Doctrine was used by Venezuela as a rationale for its vote in support of Argentina at the Organization of American States meeting on the Argentine debt crisis that involved NML Capital.\n"}
{"id": "9227876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9227876", "title": "Equal Treatment in Goods and Services Directive 2004", "text": "Equal Treatment in Goods and Services Directive 2004\n\nThe Equal Treatment in Goods and Services Directive 2004 (2004/113/EC) of 13 December 2004 is a directive which prohibits both direct and indirect sexual discrimination in the provision of goods and services in the European Union.\n\nAs originally enacted Article 5(2) of the directive allowed member states to permit sexual discrimination in the provision of insurance services for renewal periods of five years. However in \"Test-Achats ASBL v Conseil des ministres\", the European Court of Justice invalidated this provision on the basis that it potentially permitted the indefinite continuance of discrimination in the provision of insurance contrary to Articles 21 and 23 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.\n\nAccording to Article 5(1) of Directive 2004/113/EC, member states must ensure that \"the use of sex as a factor in the calculation of premiums and benefits for the purposes of insurance and related financial services shall not result in differences in individuals' premiums and benefits\".\n\nHowever, initially insurers could use Article 5(2) as an opt-out clause, allowing them to decide whether or not to use gender as a determining factor when assessing risk, providing this decision was based on \"relevant and accurate actuarial and statistical data\".\n\nUsing the car insurance industry as an example, statistically speaking, men are generally involved in a higher number of serious traffic accidents and make more expensive claims than women. As a result, insurers were justified in using this exemption when calculating the price of an applicant’s policy. Therefore, women traditionally received cheaper car insurance quotes than their male counterparts.\n\nOn 1 March 2011, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) issued its judgement into the Test-Achats case. The ECJ agreed with Test-Achats, a Belgian consumer group, and ruled Article 5(2) was invalid. Consequently, insurers were no longer able to use gender as a risk factor when pricing policies.\n\nFollowing the ruling, insurers had until 21 December 2012 to comply with this decision and begin selling gender neutral car insurance.\n\nAs of November 2012, no-one precisely knew how the ECJ’s decision would impact the insurance industry. However, in the case of car insurance, many analysts expected the price of women’s vehicle cover to substantially increase while men would see a slight reduction in the cost of their premiums. Although some believed the decision would lead to a fairer system, the Association of British Insurers opposed the decision.\n\nCommenting on the matter in 2012, Director General Otto Thoresen stated, \"Insurers and the UK Government fought for nearly a decade to retain the right to offer premiums and benefits priced as accurately as possible by considering risks linked to gender. But now that the battle is over, the industry is focused on preparing to give customers ‘gender-neutral’ rates that are as fair as possible.\" As of April 2015, UK journalists have suggested that, but is now driven by career / profession declared within the insurance application. Six professions were selected as examples of (a) male dominated professions, (b) female dominated professions and (c) gender-neutral professions. Clear results show the higher insurance premiums were quoted for male dominated professions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59517", "title": "European Communities Act 1972 (UK)", "text": "European Communities Act 1972 (UK)\n\nThe European Communities Act 1972 (c. 68) also known as the ECA 1972 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which made legal provision for the accession of the United Kingdom to the three European Communities, namely the EEC (or \"Common Market\"), Euratom, and the (now defunct) Coal and Steel Community.\n\nThe Treaty of Accession was signed by the Conservative Prime Minister Edward Heath and the President of the European Commission Franco Maria Malfatti in Brussels on 22 January 1972; the UK's accession into the Communities was subsequently ratified \"via\" the 1972 Act.\n\nThe Act provided for the incorporation into UK law of the whole of European Community law and its \"acquis communautaire\": its Treaties, Regulations and Directives, together with judgments of the European Court of Justice.\n\nBy the Act, Community Law (subsequently European Union Law) became binding on all legislation passed by the UK Parliament (and also upon the UK's devolved administrations—the Northern Ireland Assembly, Scottish Parliament and National Assembly for Wales—although none of these institutions existed at the time of the passing of the Act). Arguably the most significant statute to be passed by the Heath government of 1970-74, the Act is also one of the most significant UK constitutional statutes ever passed.\n\nThe act has been significantly amended from its original form, incorporating the changes wrought by the Single European Act, the Maastricht Treaty, the Amsterdam Treaty, the Nice Treaty, and the Treaty of Lisbon.\n\nOn 13 July 2017, the then Brexit Secretary, David Davis, introduced what became the European Union (Withdrawal) Act to Parliament which, as enacted, makes provision for repealing the 1972 Act on \"exit day\", defined as 29 March 2019 (at 11 pm).\n\nWhen the European Communities (EC) came into being in 1958, the UK chose to remain aloof and instead join the alternative bloc, EFTA. Almost immediately the British government regretted its decision, and in 1961, along with Denmark, Ireland and Norway, the UK applied to join the three Communities. However, President Charles de Gaulle saw British membership as a Trojan horse for US influence, and vetoed it; all four applications were suspended. The four countries resubmitted their applications in 1967, and the French veto was lifted upon Georges Pompidou succeeding de Gaulle in 1969. In 1970, accession negotiations took place between the UK Government, led by Conservative Prime Minister Edward Heath, the European Communities and various European leaders. Despite disagreements over the CAP and the UK's relationship with the Commonwealth, terms were agreed. In October 1971, after a lengthy Commons debate, MPs voted 356-244 in favour of joining the EEC.\n\nFor the Treaty to take effect upon entry into the Communities on 1 January 1973, and for the UK to embrace the EEC Institutions and Community law, an Act of Parliament was required. Only three days after the signing of the Treaty, a European Communities Bill of just 12 clauses was presented to the House of Commons by Geoffrey Rippon. The European Communities Act came into being, and Edward Heath signed the Treaty of Accession in Brussels on 22 January 1972. Denmark and Ireland also joined the Community on the same day, 1 January 1973, as the UK; the Norwegian people had rejected membership in a referendum in 1972.\n\nThe European Communities Bill was introduced the House of Commons for its first reading by Geoffrey Rippon, Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster on 26 January 1972.\n\nOn 17 February 1972, the House of Commons voted narrowly by 309-301 in favour of the Bill at its second reading, after three days of intense debate. Just before the vote the Prime Minister Edward Heath argued his case in the debate with the following words.\n\nThe Bill then passed on to Committee Stage before its third reading.\n\nOn 13 July 1972, the House of Commons voted 301-284 in favour of the Bill in its third and final reading before passing on to the House of Lords. Before the vote took place, Geoffrey Rippon (who had drafted the Bill) argued in the House of Commons immediately before the vote:\n\nThe Bill then passed to the House of Lords before receiving Royal Assent.\n\nThe Act received Royal Assent on 17 October, and the UK's instrument of ratification of the Treaty of Accession was deposited the next day—although the Act and the Treaty did not become law until 1 January 1973, when the United Kingdom officially became a member state of the European Communities (subsequently the European Union) along with Denmark and the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe European Communities Act was the instrument whereby the UK was able to join the European Union (then known as the European Communities). It enables, under section 2(2), UK government ministers to lay regulations before Parliament to transpose EU Directives (then Community law) and rulings of the European Court of Justice into UK law. It also provides, in section 2(4), that all UK legislation, including primary legislation (Acts of Parliament) have effect \"subject to\" directly applicable EU law. This has been interpreted by UK courts as granting EU law primacy over domestic UK legislation.\n\nThe Act legislated for the United Kingdom's accession to the European Economic Community (EEC), which was at the time the main international organisation of the three Communities (more commonly known at the time as the Common Market) and incorporated its rules and regulations into the domestic law of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Act legislated for the United Kingdom's accession to the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) and incorporated its rules and regulations into the domestic law of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Act legislated for the United Kingdom's accession to the European Atomic Energy Community (EAEC or Euratom) and incorporated its rules and regulations into the domestic law of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Act incorporated the following treaties into the domestic law of the United Kingdom.\n\n\nThe following treaties were added to the act though subsequent amendments.\n\n\nThe Act legislated for the full participation of the United Kingdom in the Common Agricultural Policy and fully incorporates the policy into UK domestic law. It repealed previous pieces of UK domestic legislation to allow for this.\n\nThe Act legislated for the full participation of the United Kingdom in the Common Fisheries Policy and fully incorporates the policy into UK domestic law.\n\nThe Act legislated for the incorporation and full participation of the United Kingdom within the European Union Customs Union (then European Communities Customs Union) into domestic law, as well as the application of the European common external tariff to all goods which come into the UK from outside the European Communities. The Act repealed large sections of previous UK domestic legislation to allow for this.\n\nThe primacy and direct effect of EU law has no formal basis in the founding treaties of the union, but was developed by the European Court of Justice (ECJ), long before UK accession, on the grounds that the purpose of the treaties would be thwarted if EU law were subordinate to national law. The view of the ECJ is that any norm of EU law takes precedence over national law, including national constitutions. Most national courts, including the United Kingdom's, do not accept this monist perspective. The British constitution is based on Parliamentary sovereignty and has a dualist view of international law: international treaties do not become part of UK domestic law unless they are incorporated into UK law by an Act of Parliament. The primacy of EU law in the United Kingdom derives from the European Communities Act. This means that if the Act were repealed, any EU law (unless it has been transposed into British legislation) would, in practice, become unenforceable in the United Kingdom and Gibraltar, and the powers delegated by the Act to the EU institutions would return to the Parliament of the United Kingdom. This was made clear to be the law in the United Kingdom by the inclusion of the passed by the British Parliament.\n\nThe question of sovereignty had been discussed in an official document (FCO 30/1048) that became available to the public in January 2002 under the Thirty-year rule. It listed among \"Areas of policy in which parliamentary freedom to legislate will be affected by entry into the European Communities\": Customs duties, Agriculture, Free movement of labour, services and capital, Transport, and Social Security for migrant workers. The document concluded (paragraph 26) that it was advisable to put the considerations of influence and power before those of formal sovereignty.\n\nIn the House of Lords \"Factortame\" case, Lord Bridge confirmed that section 2(4) of the ECA effectively automatically inserts a virtual (implied) clause into all UK statutes, that they are to be automatically disapplied wherever they come into conflict with European law. This is seen by some as a departure from the British constitutional doctrine of Westminster parliamentary sovereignty as it was and had been traditionally understood.\n\nThe United Kingdom voted for withdrawal from the European Union in the 2016 EU referendum held on 23 June 2016, and afterwards there was speculation that the act would be either repealed or amended. In October 2016, Prime Minister Theresa May promised a \"Great Repeal Bill\" which would repeal the 1972 Act and import its regulations into UK law, with effect from the date of British withdrawal; the regulations could then be amended or repealed on a case-by-case basis.\n\nThe European Union (Withdrawal) Bill was introduced in the House of Commons on 13 July 2017. It was passed by Parliament on 20 June 2018, and received royal assent on 26 June 2018. The European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 provides for the repeal of the European Communities Act 1972 at the time the United Kingdom exits the EU, on 29 March 2019 at 11:00 pm. However, in a July 2018 white paper, the government announced its intention to amend the Withdrawal Act to provide for the continued effect of the ECA until the end of the \"transition period\" (31 December 2020, as of July 2018), therefore allowing EU law to continue to apply in that period.\n\n"}
{"id": "12817848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12817848", "title": "Familicide", "text": "Familicide\n\nA familicide is a type of murder or murder-suicide in which a perpetrator kills multiple close family members in quick succession, most often children, spouse, siblings, or parents. In half the cases, the killer then kills themselves in a murder-suicide. If only the parents are killed, the case may also be referred to as a parricide. Where all members of a family are killed, the crime may be referred to as family annihilation.\n\nFamilicides were used as an enhanced punishment in antiquity. In ancient China, the \"nine familial exterminations\" was the killing of an entire extended family or clan, usually for treason. Machiavelli advocated the extermination of a previous ruler's family to prevent uprisings in The Prince. Sippenhaft was used in Nazi Germany to punish and sometimes execute the relatives of defectors and anyone involved in the 20 July plot. La Cosa Nostra began killing the relatives, including women and more recently children, of informants (pentiti) and rivals in the 1980s. It is not incorporated formally into any modern judicial systems, except in North Korea, where whole-family internment at Kaechon internment camp often ends in death.\n\nOf 909 victims of mass murder (defined as 4 victims within a 24-hour period) in the US from 1900 to 2000, more than half occurred within an immediate family. Although the total number of familicide cases are relatively rare, they are the most common form of mass killings. However, statistical data is difficult to establish due to reporting discrepancies.\n\nFamilicide differs from other forms of mass murder in that the murderer kills family members or loved ones rather than anonymous people. This has a different psychodynamic and psychiatric significance, but the distinction is not always made.\n\nA study of 30 cases in Ohio found that most of the killings were motivated by a parent's desire to stop their children's suffering. According to ABC News contributor and former FBI agent Brad Garrett, people responsible for killing their families tend to be white males in their 30s. Most of these crimes occur in August, before school starts, which may delay detection and investigation.\n\nIn Australia, a study was done of seven cases of filicide followed by suicide in which marital separation followed by custody and access disputes were identified as an issue. Some common factors such as marital discord, unhappiness, domestic violence, sexual abuse, threats of harm to self or others were found in varying degrees. It was not clear what could be done in terms of prevention.\n\nThe internal logic for family annihilation can stem from a number of sources.\n\nDavid Wilson of Birmingham City University has divided these cases into four groups: anomic, disappointed, self-righteous and paranoid.\n\nIn this typology, the anomic killer sees his family purely as a status symbol; when his economic status collapses, he sees them as surplus to requirements. The disappointed killer seeks to punish the family for not living up to his ideals of family life. The self-righteous killer destroys the family to exact revenge upon the mother, in an act that he blames on her. Finally, the paranoid killer kills their family in what they imagine to be an attempt to protect them from something even worse.\n\n\nFamily annihilation is depicted in the following media:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36277783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36277783", "title": "Fisheries Act 1983", "text": "Fisheries Act 1983\n\nThe Fisheries Act 1983 is an Act of Parliament in New Zealand. An important provision of the Act was establishing the Quota Management System, one of the first individual fishing quota systems. The Act was largely repealed with the passage of the Fisheries Act 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43698429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43698429", "title": "Florida bankruptcy law", "text": "Florida bankruptcy law\n\nBankruptcy in Florida is made under title 11 of the United States Code, which is referred to as the Bankruptcy Code. Although bankruptcy is a federal procedure, in certain regards, it looks to state law, such as to exemptions and to define property rights. The Bankruptcy Code provides that each state has the choice whether to \"opt in\" and use the federal exemptions or to \"opt out\" and to apply the state law exemptions. Florida is an \"opt out\" state in regard to exemptions. Bankruptcy in the United States is provided for under federal law as provided in the United States Constitution. Under the federal constitution, there are no state bankruptcy courts. The bankruptcy laws are primarily contained in 11 U.S.C. 101, et seq. The Bankruptcy Code underwent a substantial amendment in 2005 with the \"Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005\", often referred to as \"BAPCPA\". The Bankruptcy Code provides for a set of federal bankruptcy exemptions, but each states is allowed is choose whether it will \"opt in\" or \"opt out\" of the federal exemptions. In the event that a state opts out of the federal exemptions, the exemptions are provided for the particular exemption laws of the state with the application with certain federal exemptions.\n\nThere are three districts of bankruptcy courts in Florida, each of which is divided into divisions.\n\nThe Bankruptcy Court the Southern District of Florida covers the southern portion of State of Florida, including, Miami-Dade, Broward, Palm Beach, and Monroe Counties. Bankruptcy Judges sit and hear cases in Miami, Ft. Lauderdale, and West Palm Beach. The Clerk of the Bankruptcy Court also maintains offices in Miami, Ft. Lauderdale, and West Palm Beach.\n\nThe Bankruptcy Court of the Middle District of Florida covers the middle portion of the State of Florida, including Tampa, Orlando, and Jacksonville. Bankruptcy Judge sit and hear cases in various locations, including Tampa, Orlando, and Jacksonville.\n\nThe Bankruptcy Court of the Northern District of Florida covers the northern portion of the State of Florida, including Tallahassee. There is only one bankruptcy judge in the Northern District and he sits and hears cases in Tallahassee.\n\nThe filing fees for bankruptcy are determined by the federal government and are adjusted periodically. People below a certain income level may be eligible to pay the filing fee in installments.\n\nMost people file for bankruptcy relief represented by an attorney due to the complexity of the bankruptcy laws. There are lawyers who specialize in bankruptcy law and there are those that practice bankruptcy law as a part of their general practice. Filing for chapter 13 bankruptcy has become so complex over the years, especially due to the 2005 Bankruptcy Code, that very few person are able to successfully file and complete a chapter 13 case.\n\nSome individuals file for bankruptcy without the assistance of an attorney. Filing for bankruptcy without an attorney is called in the law, filing \"pro se\". The bankruptcy court highly recommend that you only file for bankruptcy with the assistance of an attorney. Many people file \"pro se\" to stop a foreclosure sale and do not intend to complete the bankruptcy case. In fact its estimated that about one third of the chapter 13 cases filed in the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Florida are filed \"pro se\" and are not pursued after the filing of the case and the imposition of the automatic stay, and the cases are dismissed within about a month after their filing. In some instances, volunteer bankruptcies lawyer are available to assist low-income people in filing for bankruptcy relief.\n\nOfficial forms are used in filing a bankruptcy case. A bankruptcy case is begun with the filing of the official form B1 bankruptcy petition. The filing of a chapter 7 or chapter 13 personal bankruptcy case also requires the filing of schedules A through J, the statement of financial affairs as well as the form B22 means test.\n\nThe Bankruptcy Code's provisions for chapter 7 bankruptcy relief are generally found in chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Sometimes chapter 7 bankruptcy is referred to as \"straight bankruptcy\" or \"liquidation bankruptcy\", but these terms are basically a holdover from the past and are not helpful and are misleading. Basically, chapter 7 bankruptcy provides for the discharge of dischargeable debt, which does not include non-dischargeable debt, such as most student loans, alimony, child support, and some taxes. In most cases, filers under chapter 7 incur no liquidation of their property as all of their property is \"exempt.\" Instances of the liquidation of property under chapter 7 is generally only found when the person wrongfully files under chapter 7 when they should have filed under chapter 13 or should not have filed for bankruptcy at all.\n\nThe purpose of chapter 13 is to reorganize a person's financial situation while under the protection of the bankruptcy court. The reorganization is based on a chapter 13 plan proposed by the debtor which is effective when approved by the bankruptcy court.\n\nChapter 11 bankruptcy is available to both individuals and businesses, but there are very few individual chapter 11 cases filed.\n\nAlmost all of the chapter 11 cases filed in Florida are by businesses, such as corporations and LLCs. Many of the businesses located in Florida, though may file in another states, such as Delaware or New York, due to various reasons. One of the first significant occasions was the filing of the Eastern Airlines chapter 11 case in New York which was based on the fact that one of its small subsidiaries was located in New York.\n\nA business may file for chapter 7 bankruptcy liquidation. There is a misunderstanding among many people that a business is required to file for bankruptcy when it is closing for financial distress reasons. Actually in the vast majority of cases, a business may close and wind-down the business informally or formally under the applicable entity's provisions in Florida Statutes. When a business files for chapter 7 bankruptcy, A bankruptcy trustee is appointed who steps in and takes control of the business and its assets.\n\nA business may file for chapter 11 bankruptcy relief for a variety of purposes. Although chapter 11 is generally regarded as being for the purposes of reorganization, many businesses file for chapter 11 to effectuate a sale of the business or an orderly liquidation of the business.\n\nUpon the filing of a bankruptcy case, generally all of the debtor's property becomes property of a bankruptcy estate. A bankruptcy estate is defined broadly in the Bankruptcy Code to includes all of the debtor's rights to property. The use of exemptions is generally only in personal bankruptcy case and not in business cases, such as those filed under chapter 7 and chapter 11, filed by an entity, except by business operated as a sole proprietorship. Bankruptcy exemptions that apply in Florida are generally set forth in several locations, including the Bankruptcy Code, Federal Statutes, Florida Constitution, Florida Statutes, and Florida common law.\n\nArticle X, section 4 of the Florida Constitution provides for the Florida Homestead exemption. This type of \"homestead exemption\" should be distinguished from the homestead exemptions provided related to property taxation and inheritance purposes.\n\nCertain personal property is exempt from the bankruptcy estate in Florida.\n\nArticle X, section 4 of the Florida Constitution provides for the exemption of $1,000 of personal property, which is doubled if the bankruptcy case is a joint filing with a spouse. Florida statutes provides for an additional $4,000 exemption for personal property if the person does not have the benefit of the Florida homestead exemption.\n\nFlorida Statute section 222.11 provides for a limited exemption of wages.\n\nFlorida Statutes provides for the exemption of $1,000 in value of a vehicle. This is applied to the equity in the vehicle in the event there is a lien on the vehicle for a loan.\n\nFlorida Statutes provides for a certain exemption of life insurance in section 222.13 and in section 222.14\n\nFlorida Statutes 222.14 provides for a certain exemption of annuities.\n\nMost retirement benefits, including IRAs, 401(k) plans, and social security, are exempt in Florida.\n\nFlorida Statutes provides for a certain exemption for workers' compensation benefits.\n\nFlorida Statutes provides for a certain exemption for unemployment benefits.\n\nReal or personal property held among spouses as tenants by the entireties is not owned solely by the individual but is owned by the marriage. Due to this status of ownership, property held as tenants by the entireties is generally exempt or not subject to the claims of the creditors of one of the spouses in Florida. This common law exemption is generally applicable to real property as well as personal property, but must be relied upon with caution as it may be difficult to prove that the property is actually held as tenants by the entireties, especially as to personal property, and as the application of this exemption various among different bankruptcy judges.\n\nSpendthrift trusts are technically not \"exempt\" from the bankruptcy estate, but are \"excluded\" from the bankruptcy estate pursuant to section 541(d) of the Bankruptcy Code. A spendthrift trust is a creature of Florida state law and must meet is requirements in order to be considered a spendthrift trust.\n\nProperty in which the debtor only holds bare legal title, is not part of the bankruptcy estate under section 541(d) of the Bankruptcy Code.\n\nA creditor is a person or entity that holds a claim against the debtor or the property of a debtor. The claim may have the status of an administrative claim, priority claim, a secured claim, or a general unsecured claim. There are various procedures that a creditor must follow in order to protect their interests. In most instances, a creditor must file a proof of claim form with the clerk of the involved bankruptcy court. Such proof of claim form generally must be filed before the \"bar date\" set in each case.\n\nAlthough almost all bankruptcy cases are filed voluntarily by the debtor, the Bankruptcy Code also provides for the filing of an involuntary bankruptcy case against a person or business entity by creditors. The purpose of the filing of a petition for Involuntary bankruptcy case is usually as a means by creditors to collect on debts.\n\nThe first level of appeal from a Bankruptcy Court is normally to the United States District Court for the same district of the bankruptcy court. Sometimes, appeals are allowed to be taken directly to the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nThe 11th Circuit Court of Appeals hears appeals from the United States District Court. It also hears appeals directly from the bankruptcy court in certain circumstances. The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, but has several local locations.\n\nAppeals from the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals are taken to the United States Supreme Court in Washington, DC. Throughout the history of the bankruptcy laws in the United States, the U.S. Supreme Court has made very important decisions regarding the nature of the bankruptcy courts and other issues of bankruptcy law. Among the most extremely Important cases are\" Northern Pipeline v. Marathon Pipel Line\" and \"Stern v. Marshall,\". These cases related to the power and jurisdiction of bankruptcy courts under article III of the United States Constitution to render judgment in certain types of cases.\n\nChapter 12 of the Bankruptcy Code provides for bankruptcy relief for family farmers and fisherman. Chapter 12 is somewhat of a hybrid of chapter 13 and chapter 11 bankruptcy. There are somewhat few chapter 13 cases filed in Florida, except in the Bankruptcy Courts for the Northern District of Florida.\n\nChapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code provides bankruptcy relief for certain types of governmental entities.\n\nChapter 15 of the Bankruptcy Code provides for the coordination of bankruptcy cases in the United States with bankruptcy and insolvency cases filed in other countries.\n\nThe rules governing procedure in bankruptcy courts are the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure. Many sections of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure adopt general Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Bankruptcy Courts in Florida also have local rules of procedure.\n\nAs bankruptcy courts are federal courts, the Federal Rules of Evidence. \n\nInformation for filing for personal bankruptcy relief under chapter 7 and chapter 13 is provided on the website of the federal courts and various organization, such as the National Association of Consumer Bankruptcy Attorneys,\n\nThe website of the American Bankruptcy Institute provides much information about business bankruptcy law.\n\nThe case law regarding bankruptcy law is primarily to be found in the decisions of the bankruptcy courts, the district courts, the courts of appeals, the bankruptcy appellate panels, and the U.S. Supreme Court. Case law is available on some Bankruptcy Court's websites.\n\nThere are many blogs on the internet that provide many article on current bankruptcy law issues.\n"}
{"id": "42670998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42670998", "title": "Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act", "text": "Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act\n\nThe Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act () is a bill that was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress. Under current law, works of art loaned by foreign governments generally are immune to certain decisions made by federal courts and cannot be confiscated if the President, or the President’s designee, determines that display of the works is in the national interest. However, commercial activity in which foreign governments are engaged does not have immunity in federal courts. H.R. 4292 would clarify that importing works of art into the United States for temporary display is not a commercial activity, and thus that such works would be immune from seizure.\n\nA similar bill was passed by the House during the 112th United States Congress. \n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\" \n\nThe Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act would amend the federal judicial code with respect to denial of a foreign state's immunity from the jurisdiction of U.S. or state courts (under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act) in cases where rights in property taken in violation of international law are in issue and that property (or any property exchanged for it) is: (1) present in the United States in connection with a commercial activity carried on by the foreign state in the United States; or (2) owned by an agency or instrumentality of the foreign state, and that agency or instrumentality is engaged in a commercial activity in the United States.\n\nThe bill would prohibit consideration as a commercial activity (excluded from jurisdictional immunity) any activity in the United States of a foreign state, or of any carrier, associated with a temporary exhibition or display if: (1) the work of art (or other object of cultural significance) is imported into the United States from any foreign country pursuant to an agreement for its temporary exhibition or display between a foreign state that is its owner or custodian and the United States or cultural or educational institutions within it; and (2) the President has determined, with notice in the Federal Register, that such work is culturally significant and its temporary exhibition or display is in the national interest. (Thus, grants jurisdictional immunity to the foreign state and associated carrier for such works.)\n\nThe bill would deny application of this prohibition to cases concerning rights in property taken in violation of international law in which: (1) the action is based upon a claim that the work was taken between January 30, 1933, and May 8, 1945, by the government of Germany or any government in Europe occupied, assisted, or allied by the German government; (2) the court determines that the activity associated with the exhibition or display is commercial; and (3) that determination is necessary for the court to exercise jurisdiction over the foreign state.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Budget Office, as ordered reported by the House Committee on the Judiciary on April 2, 2014. This is a public domain source.\" \n\nBased on information provided by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that implementing H.R. 4292 would have no significant effect on the federal budget. Enacting H.R. 4292 would not affect direct spending or revenues; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures do not apply.\n\nUnder current law, works of art loaned by foreign governments generally are immune to certain decisions made by federal courts and cannot be confiscated if the President, or the President’s designee, determines that display of the works is in the national interest. However, commercial activity in which foreign governments are engaged does not have immunity in federal courts. H.R. 4292 would clarify that importing works of art into the United States for temporary display is not a commercial activity, and thus that such works would be immune from seizure.\n\nH.R. 4292 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act and would not affect the budgets of state, local, or tribal governments.\n\nThe Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on March 25, 2014 by Rep. Steve Chabot (R, OH-1). The bill was referred to the United States House Committee on the Judiciary and the United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice. The bill was scheduled to be voted on under suspension of the rules on May 6, 2014.\n\nAccording to a legislative digest provided by House Republicans, the bill \"narrowly amends the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA) to make it easier for U.S. cultural and educational institutions to borrow art and other culturally significant objects from foreign countries.\" However, the changes made by the bill would not provide any immunity to art or objects that were \"taken in violation of international law by Nazi Germany between January 30, 1933 and May 8, 1945.\"\n\nIn an editorial, Tess Davis of the University of Glasgow and Marc Masurovsky of the Holocaust Art Restitution Project, spoke out in opposition to the bill. Davis and Masurovsky argue that the bill would \"prevent claimants from recovering their rightful property\" and enable museums to \"knowingly be able to exhibit stolen and looted art and antiquities.\" Davis and Masurovsky argue that the bill would weaken U.S. law and undermine the American tradition of honoring property rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1333120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1333120", "title": "Gazumping", "text": "Gazumping\n\nGazumping occurs when a seller (especially of property) accepts a verbal offer (a promise to purchase) on the property from one potential buyer, but then accepts a higher offer from someone else. It can also refer to the seller raising the asking price or asking for more money at the last minute, after previously verbally agreeing to a lower one. In either case, the original buyer is left in a bad situation, and either has to offer a higher price or lose the purchase. The term \"gazumping\" is most commonly used in the UK, Ireland and Australia, although similar practices can be found in some other jurisdictions.\n\nWith buoyant property prices in the British residential property market of the late 1980s and early 1990s, gazumping became commonplace in England and Wales because a buyer's offer is not legally binding even after acceptance of the offer by the vendor. This is because, by s.2 of the Law of Property (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1989 and in order to prevent dishonesty, a contract for the sale of land must be in writing, a requirement of English law that dates back to the Statute of Frauds of 1677. This requirement was originally intended to promote good faith and certainty in land transactions.\n\nWhen the owner accepts the offer on a property, the buyer will usually not yet have commissioned a building survey nor will the buyer have yet had the opportunity to perform recommended legal checks. The offer to purchase is made \"subject to contract\" and thus, until \"written\" contracts are exchanged either party can pull out at any time. It can take as long as 10–12 weeks for formalities to be completed, and if the seller is tempted by a higher offer during this period it leaves the buyer disappointed and out-of-pocket. Asking price has no impact on whether a property has been \"gazumped\". Any offer over a previous offer that is subsequently accepted is known as gazumping.\n\nWhen property prices are in decline the practice of gazumping becomes rare. The term 'gazundering' has been coined for the opposite practice whereby the buyer waits until everybody is poised to exchange contracts before lowering the offer on the property, threatening the collapse of a whole chain of house sales waiting for the deal to go through. 'Gazanging' describes a similar situation, where a seller pulls out of a sale entirely, expecting to get a better asking price or offer once the market improves.\n\nThe origin of the word with its 'z' sound seems likely, as many such 'z' sounding words, to be West Country England, with it appearing to have been used, at least in the Yeovil area, to simply mean 'go one better' - prior to its more widespread use as a house-buying term.\n\nScots law and practice makes the problem of gazumping a rarity in Scotland. In the Scottish system of conveyancing buyers either obtain a survey prior to making a bid to the seller's solicitor or make an offer \"subject to survey\". Sellers normally set a closing date for written offers, then provide written acceptance of the chosen bid. The agreement becomes binding when a seller's solicitor delivers a signed written acceptance of a buyer's offer. Should the seller attempt to accept a higher bid after the contracts have been legally finalised by a written offer and acceptance, their solicitor will refuse to act for them as this, according to the Law Society of Scotland code of practice, would be professional misconduct. As in England, all contracts for the sale of land must be evidenced in writing signed by or on behalf of each party. In Scotland the parties' solicitors sign on their behalf, unlike in England, where buyer and seller both sign a contract which has been produced in duplicate form, with the duplicates then being exchanged to effect a binding contract. It is often wrongly claimed that gazumping is a rarity in Scotland because it is said that an oral agreement on a property deal is legally binding; while the law on contract differs from the law in England, the rarity is due to the different system of conveyancing.\n\nIn Scotland however, an estate agent, acting on behalf of the seller, can initiate instances of another form of gazumping. Once a closing date for written offers has been reached and an estate agent has given an oral acceptance of the chosen bid, the estate agent can then attempt to induce a bidding war between the successful buyer and a rival, who may be fictional, in an attempt to increase the offer made by each party. In such circumstance there is little recourse for a successful buyer who, despite having been informed orally that their offer has been accepted, is then informed orally that their offer has been rejected in favour of a higher bid. Such situations only occur at an early stage of the conveyancing process, prior to any written acceptance of an offer being given by the seller's solicitor. Often they result from the legal requirement on the part of estate agents to advise a seller of any higher offer received prior to written confirmation of an orally accepted offer being given, including those received after a closing date.\n\nIn Scotland, gazundering is possible where the buyer has insufficient assets to be worth suing, but is not common.\n\nThe term \"gazumping\" is not used in the United States. Every state has different laws and traditions, but buyers typically make a written offer that, when accepted (signed) by the seller, is in most localities binding on the seller. This is known as a \"purchase and sale\" contract, which may have conditions. U.S. residential purchase contracts typically contain an inspection clause, a short period during which the buyer can inspect the property and back out of the contract with the full return of the earnest money, if the property does not pass the buyer's inspections. The seller, however, cannot, except in some states, back out during the inspection period. New Jersey is one state where the seller has a \"legal review\" period, during which they can back out of an accepted contract.\n\nIn a falling or depressed market the term \"gazundering\" refers to the practice whereby a prospective buyer (especially of property) makes an oral offer (a promise to purchase) on the property at an agreed price but subsequently threatens to withdraw the offer unless the seller agrees to a lower price.\n\n"}
{"id": "31784591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31784591", "title": "German–Turkish Treaty of Friendship", "text": "German–Turkish Treaty of Friendship\n\nThe German–Turkish Treaty of Friendship (, ) was a Non-Aggression Pact signed between Nazi Germany and Turkey on June 18, 1941, in Ankara by German ambassador to Turkey Franz von Papen and Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs Şükrü Saracoğlu. It became effective on the same day.\n\nThe pact, which was intended to be in force for a period of ten years, lasted only until 23 February 1945, when Turkey declared war on Germany.\n\nAfter the outbreak of World War II in 1939, Turkish president İsmet İnönü pursued a policy of neutrality, tried to avoid involvement in the war, and asked for military equipment deliveries from both sides. For its part, Nazi Germany tried to draw Turkey away from Britain using diplomatic efforts.\n\nAs Germany prepared to invade Yugoslavia and Greece in April 1941, German troops arrived at the Bulgarian border, and demanded permission to pass through its territory. On March 1, 1941, Bulgaria had signed the Tripartite Pact, and so had officially joined the Axis powers.\n\nOn 4 March 1941, Franz von Papen forwarded a letter from Adolf Hitler to İnönü. In his letter, Hitler wrote that he had not started the war, and that he was not intending to attack Turkey. He emphasized further that he had ordered his troops in Bulgaria to stay far from the Turkish border in order not to make a false impression of their presence. Hitler offered a non-aggression pact to Turkey.\n\nOn 6 April, Axis troops attacked Yugoslavia (in Operation 25) and Greece (in Operation Marita) through Bulgaria in an effort to secure its southern flank. The invasion of Yugoslavia ended on 17 April and the invasion of Greece – on 1 June. With this, the annexation and occupation of the Balkan region by the Axis powers was complete.\n\nA military \"coup d'état\" launched on 1 April 1941 by Rashid Ali Al-Gaylani overthrew the regime in Iraq, which was sympathetic to Britain. The four generals leading the revolt were working closely with German intelligence, and accepted military aid from Germany. Hitler asked Turkey for permission to pass through Turkish territory to give Iraq military assistance. The Turkish government demanded border concessions from Iraq in response to the German request. As the negotiations were taking place, British forces attacked Iraq. Between 18 April and 3 June, Britain restored the regime of Emir Abdul-Illah, regent of four-year-old King Faisal II. The issue between Turkey and Germany was resolved with this development.\n\nOn 22 June 1941, only four days after the signing of the German–Turkish Non-aggression Pact, German troops invaded the Soviet Union in Operation Barbarossa, violating the German-Soviet Non-aggression Pact.\n\n"}
{"id": "24607106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24607106", "title": "Immigration Act of 1903", "text": "Immigration Act of 1903\n\nThe Immigration Act of 1903, also called the Anarchist Exclusion Act, was a law of the United States regulating immigration. It codified previous immigration law, and added four inadmissible classes: anarchists, people with epilepsy, beggars, and importers of prostitutes. It had little impact and its provisions related to anarchists were expanded in the Immigration Act of 1918.\n\nAnarchism came to public attention in the United States with the Haymarket Affair of 1886. On May 4, a policeman was killed and several others were wounded, of which six later died, after a bomb exploded in Chicago's Haymarket Square. Eight members of the recently formed International Working People's Association (IWPA) were found guilty of the bombing. The IWPA's 1883 manifesto called for the \"destruction of the existing class rule, by all means, i.e., by energetic, relentless, revolutionary and international action\".\n\nThe idea of excluding anarchists from immigrating was first mentioned at a Congressional hearing in 1889. A bill introduced on July 20, 1894 sought to restrict the entry of anarchists by requiring potential immigrants to visit an U. S. consulate for a political review before immigrating. A substitute bill proposed a system within the United States to detect, question, and deport immigrants accused of anarchism. Both died in committee.\n\nOn September 6, 1901, Leon F. Czolgosz, an American-born son of Polish immigrants and a self-proclaimed anarchist, assassinated President William McKinley. The police responded by arresting a number of anarchists, including Emma Goldman and a group of Chicago anarchists that published \"Free Society\", the leading English-language Communist-anarchist periodical in the U.S. at the time. They were all later released because no evidence of conspiracy could be found. And there were some viewpoints in the anarchist opinion which strongly denounced Czolgosz, some calling him a \"dangerous crank\", despite what was to come next.\n\nTheodore Roosevelt urged the exclusion and deportation of anarchist immigrants in his first address to Congress on December 3, 1901:\n\nPresident Theodore Roosevelt signed the Act, officially \"An Act To regulate the immigration of aliens into the United States\", ch. 1012, , into law on March 3, 1903, the last day of the 57th United States Congress. It codified previous immigration law and added four inadmissible classes: anarchists, people with epilepsy, beggars, and importers of prostitutes. It also allowed for the deportation within two years of anyone unlawfully in the country and raised the head tax on immigrants to the United States to two dollars ($2.00).\n\nThis was the first legislation in the U.S. since the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798 that called for questioning potential immigrants about their political beliefs. The Act barred anyone \"who disbelieves in or who is opposed to all organized government, or who is a member of or affiliated with any organization entertaining or teaching such disbelief in or opposition to all organized government.\" The law also limited the deportation of non-citizen anarchists to the first three years of their residency in the United States.\n\nThe impact of the law was slight. The Commissioner-General of Immigration reported that from the time the law took effect in 1903 until June 30, 1914, a total of 15 anarchists were denied entry to the U.S. He reported that four anarchists were expelled in 1913 and three in 1914.\n\nIn October 1903, immediately following a speech given by Scottish anarchist John Turner at the Murray Hill Lyceum in New York, Bureau of Immigration officials arrested him and found a copy of Johann Most's \"Free Society\" and Turner's speaking schedule, which included a memorial to the Haymarket Martyrs. This was enough evidence to order his deportation. Emma Goldman organized a Free Speech League to contest the deportation. She recruited Clarence Darrow and Edgar Lee Masters to defend him. After Goldman organized a meeting at Cooper Union of those opposing the deportation, a \"New York Times\" editorial argued in favor of the Act and the deportation of Turner. It referred to the people at the meeting as \"ignorant and half-crazy dreamers\" and declared that it was the country's \"right - in the belief of Congress and of many, probably of most, Americans', it makes it our duty - to exclude him.\"\n\nDarrow and Masters presented their defense of Turner before the U.S. Supreme Court. They argued that the law was unconstitutional and that Turner was merely a \"philosophical anarchist\" and therefore not a threat to the government. Chief Justice Melville Fuller wrote the Court's decision holding that the Bill of Rights does not apply to aliens and that Congress had the right to deny entry to anyone they deemed a threat to the country. Turner became the first person deported under the act.\n\nThe Act was re-enacted on June 29, 1906.\n\nAdvocates for using the immigration laws to combat radicalism campaigned to expand the law's definitions of those who could be excluded or deported. Immigration officials complained about the law's limitation on deportation to the first three years of an immigrant's residency: \n\nThe anarchist of foreign birth ... remains very quiet, as a rule, until the time limit protects him from deportation and then he is loud and boisterous and begins his maniac cry against all forms of organized government. ... There should be no time limit to the deportation of these criminals ... and should one remain in hiding sufficiently long to become naturalized he should, at the first symptoms, be shorn of his cloak and forthwith deported.\n\nThe 1903 Act was amended by the Immigration Act of 1918, which expanded and elaborated the brief definition of anarchist found in the 1903 Act and enhanced the government's ability to deport adherents of anarchism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10862657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10862657", "title": "Inculpatory evidence", "text": "Inculpatory evidence\n\nInculpatory evidence is evidence that shows, or tends to show, a person's involvement in an act, or evidence that can establish guilt. In criminal law, the prosecution has a duty to provide all evidence to the defense, whether it favors the prosecution's case or the defendant's case. Evidence that tends to show a person's innocence is considered exculpatory evidence.\n\nFor example, if a man is poisoned to death by an overdose of arsenic, and a bottle of arsenic is found in the purse of his wife, that bottle could be considered inculpatory evidence against his wife. The bottle of arsenic in his wife's purse could also be considered exculpatory evidence, tending to show the man's innocence as far as suicide is concerned.\n"}
{"id": "1085116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1085116", "title": "Interest on Lawyer Trust Accounts", "text": "Interest on Lawyer Trust Accounts\n\nInterest on Lawyer Trust Accounts (IOLTA) is a method of raising money for charitable purposes, primarily the provision of civil legal services to indigent persons, through the use of interest earned on certain lawyer trust accounts. The establishment of IOLTA in the United States followed changes to federal banking laws passed by Congress in 1980 which allowed some checking accounts to bear interest. The Florida Bar Foundation launched the first American IOLTA program in 1981. Today, every state, the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands operate IOLTA programs.\n\nAttorneys routinely receive client funds (commonly referred to as \"trust money\") to be held in trust for future use. If the amount is large or the funds are to be held for a long period of time, the attorney customarily places these funds in an interest-bearing account for the benefit of the client. However, in the case of amounts that are small or are to be held for a short time, it is impractical for the attorney to establish a separate account for each client since the cost of establishing and administering the account would exceed any interest generated, and result in a net loss for the client. Prior to IOLTA, these nominal and short-term funds were combined and placed into a pooled, non-interest-bearing checking account. The reason the accounts were non-interest-bearing is because prior to 1981, commercial banks were prohibited by federal law from paying interest on demand deposits (e.g. checking accounts). In addition, the lawyer could not earn interest on the account because it is unethical for attorneys to derive any financial benefit from funds that belong to their clients.\n\nWith the inception of IOLTA, lawyers who handle nominal or short-term client funds that cannot earn net interest for the client place these funds in pooled, \"interest-bearing accounts\", and the interest earned on these accounts is remitted to the state IOLTA program for charitable purposes. Virtually all IOLTA programs in the United States use IOLTA revenue to provide grants to organizations for the purpose of providing legal aid in civil matters to low-income residents; many also use IOLTA revenue for grants to help improve the administration of justice in their states.\n\nProper management of a lawyer's IOLTA (also commonly referred to as a \"trust account\") is highly regulated by each respective state bar. As a practical matter proper management of a lawyer's IOLTA or trust account is a key management skill in the operation of a law office which is based on principles of double-entry bookkeeping, with certain additional safeguards designed to enhance the audit trail in the event a lawyer becomes unable or otherwise unwilling to cooperate with bar auditors or an inventory attorney to account for handling of client property. It is incumbent on the owner of a law firm to undertake adequate training for the responsibilities of managing an IOLTA client property trust account. Effective management of client property trust account is required for compliance with bar rules and the efficient and profitable operation of the law firm. States typically require MCLE providers to be accredited by the state's court system.\n\nIOLTA programs were first established in Australia and Canada in the late 1960s to generate funds for legal services to the poor and other charitable purposes. In the U.S., IOLTA programs are state-specific, and operate under their own rules and regulations. Most of the U.S. IOLTA programs have been created by Court Rule, while several have been established through state legislatures. In many states the IOLTA program is administered by the charitable arm of the state bar association, whereas some states have created other entities to operate the IOLTA program. IOLTA revenue has become a major source of funding for civil legal services in the United States. It is also, however, an unpredictable revenue stream because IOLTA income is entirely dependent on the current interest rate environment and economic conditions.\n\nExplicitly, IOLTA applies only to funds that are \"nominal in amount or held for a short period of time\" so larger amounts of money held for single clients are exempt from the IOLTA program. That means, typically, that client funds eligible for IOLTA involve small amounts of money held for a long time, or significant amounts of money held for a short time. As was the case prior to IOLTA, lawyers must exercise their discretion in determining whether a given client’s trust deposit is of sufficient size or will be held for sufficient duration to justify the cost of being individually invested for a client.\n\nSince IOLTA’s inception, a number of court cases have arisen in which parties argued that IOLTA programs violated the Fifth Amendment by resulting in an unconstitutional taking. This argument was put to rest by the Supreme Court of the United States when it upheld the constitutionality of IOLTA in \"Brown v. Legal Foundation of Washington\", reasoning that there is no \"taking\" of client money, because the money being held on behalf of the individual client would not have generated any net interest for the client.\n\nOver a 15-year period, starting in 1971, law foundations were founded in every Canadian province. For the most part they were all founded with a mandate to support the following five areas:\nIn some instances the provincial legislation and/or regulations which direct the foundations also prescribe specific funding formulas which are applied to the five mandates.\n\nIn all provinces IOLTA generated from pooled trust accounts is remitted to the applicable law foundation of the province.\n"}
{"id": "5285103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5285103", "title": "Kinshasa Declaration on Great Apes", "text": "Kinshasa Declaration on Great Apes\n\nThe Kinshasa Declaration on Great Apes was a high-level political statement on the future of (non-human) great apes. It was signed during the Intergovernmental Meeting on Great Apes and the first council meeting of the Great Apes Survival Partnership (GRASP) in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo on September 9, 2005. By signing this declaration, more than 70 representatives - including 18 range states, six donor countries, 25 non-governmental organization partners, two Multilateral Environmental Agreement partnerships, and two intergovernmental organizations - affirmed a commitment to protect great apes.\n\nRepresentatives agreed to protect apes through:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16166600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16166600", "title": "Legal Services Complaints Commissioner", "text": "Legal Services Complaints Commissioner\n\nIn England and Wales, the Legal Services Complaints Commissioner is a statutory office that regulates solicitors, but not barristers. A Commissioner can be appointed by, and is answerable to, the Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice. \n\nWhen the Access to Justice Act 1999 came into force, government minister Keith Vaz stated to the House of Commons:\n\nIn September 2003, Lord Chancellor Lord Falconer, criticised the Law Society, the governing body of solicitors, saying:\n\nAs a result, the Lord Chancellor exercised his powers under the Act to appoint Zahida Manzoor as Commissioner in February 2004. The Commissioner's powers as to the Law Society were to:\n\n\nIf the Law Society failed to submit a plan or adequately handle complaints, the Commissioner could impose a penalty of up to £1 million, or 1% of the Society's annual income if that is less.\n\nIn 2005, the Law Society divided its functions among the Society, the Solicitors Regulation Authority and the Legal Complaints Service but by May 2006, the Society's efforts to remedy its own deficiencies were still giving concern to the Commissioner. As a result, a penalty of £220,000 was levied. The Commissioner subsequently recognised that progress was being made and in April 2007, advised the Society that their Complaints Handling Plan adequately addressed the concerns. However, in April 2008, the Commissioner reported that \"Results show that despite some improvements in all target areas set, there are still\nfailures ... to consistently apply their policies, processes and customer standards.\" On 3 June 2008, the Commissioner fined the Law Society £275,000 over the inadequacy of its complaints handling plan for the forthcoming year.\n\nNow that the Legal Services Act 2007 has fully comes into force, the Commissioner role has been abolished. The Office for Legal Complaints now runs the Legal Ombudsman scheme; which will supervise the complaints handling of solicitors, barristers and other legal professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "36951581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36951581", "title": "Letters Patent, 1947", "text": "Letters Patent, 1947\n\nThe Letters Patent, 1947 (more formally, the Letters Patent Constituting the Office of Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of Canada) are a legal instrument introduced by King George VI, which came into effect on 1 October 1947 and continue to, along with parts of the Constitution Act, 1867, constitute the Office of the Governor General. These letters served to expand the role and powers of the governor general in exercising the Royal Prerogative and allows the governor general to carry out an increased number of the Sovereign's duties in \"exceptional circumstances\". While the letters patent allow the governor general to use most of the \"powers and authorities\" lawfully belonging to the Canadian sovereign, this permission can be revoked, altered, or amended by the sovereign at any time and these powers and authorities thus remain with the monarch and are carried out by the governor general on his or her behalf.\n\nThe first letters patent in Canada were, starting in 1663, issued to the governors of New France by the Kings of France. At that time, the letters patent outlining the office of the governor and its role were issued with a commission appointing the occupant to the office, as well as an accompanying set of royal instructions. In this way, a different set of letters patent were issued by the Crown each time a new governor was appointed, a custom that was continued by the British following the surrender of New France in 1763 to the United Kingdom. This system remained largely unchanged until 1947 with two exceptions: The first was the granting of the title \"commander-in-chief\" in 1905 and the second occurred in 1931, when the governor general went from acting as an agent of the British government to a representative of the Canadian Crown.\n\nThe experiences of the Kingdom of Iceland during the Second World War also gave Prime Minister Louis St. Laurent an example of how the lack of a regency act or similar mechanism could, in certain circumstances, evoke a constitutional crisis. When Denmark was invaded by Nazi Germany in 1940, Iceland found itself in the peculiar position wherein its king, Christian X, who was also king of and resided in Denmark, was effectively cut off and unable to perform his constitutional duties, such as passing bills and exercising the royal prerogative, in Iceland. With no method to allow for the incapacity of the sovereign, the Icelandic parliament was forced into passing an illegal declaration of independence, with the appointment of Sveinn Björnsson as regent. The subject of the Canadian governor general's ability to act in the absence or incapacitation of the monarch was discussed in the House of Commons in 1947. This discussion brought up Canada's lack of something similar to the United Kingdom's Regency Act, which further underscored the need for such a mechanism within the Canadian political structure. As a result, the 1947 Letters Patent were issued by the King later that year, allowing the governor general to carry out nearly all of the sovereign's duties in case of capture or incapacity and thus negated the need for His Majesty's Canadian government to go through the process of passing legislation equivalent to the Regency Act.\n\nWhile the governor general is authorised by the Queen to exercise the authority of the Crown on the monarch's behalf, there is no legal impediment to the Queen exercising any of her powers herself, and only the Queen can revoke, alter, or amend the 1947 letters patent. Subsequently, despite the permissions in the Letters Patent 1947, the Canadian sovereign continues to wield \"her prerogative powers in relation to Canada concurrently with the Governor General\". As a matter of law, the Governor General of Canada is not in the same constitutional position as the sovereign and, as such, the Office of Governor General has never been invested with the powers of the Royal Prerogative, a fact the Constitution Act, 1867 leaves unchanged.\n\nFurther, unlike other parts of the constitution, the letters patent are a creation of the monarch's Royal Prerogative and cannot be repealed by parliament, though, conversely, the Letters Patent 1947 would not be sufficient to effect such a dramatic change as a transfer of power from the Queen to the governor general, as any changes to the role of both of these positions are subject to the amending formula provided in section 41 of the Constitution Act, 1982. For example, the position of Commander-in-Chief, while expressly delegated to the governor general in the Letters Patent, cannot be construed as an abdication of this role by the Queen, as any changes to this position would require a constitutional amendment of section 15 of the Constitution Act, 1867.\n\nWhile the issuance of the Letters Patent in 1947 have sometimes been portrayed as a complete transfer of power, and thus a radical departure from previous practices, they are in reality remarkably similar to previous letters patent, above all those of 1931. At the time, it was remarked that \"there seems to be no change in the status of governor-general\" and that the governor general \"still remains an officer to whom his Majesty has committed extensive but definite powers and functions.\" The intent behind the letters patent was never to alter the existing practice where certain matters were always referred to the sovereign, but to redraft the 1931 Letters Patent into a uniquely Canadian document empowering the governor general by way of \"enabling legislation\". Prime Minister Mackenzie King wrote to the King, stating that \"unless exceptional circumstances made it necessary to do so, it was not proposed by the Canadian Government to alter existing practices without prior consultation or notification to the Governor General and the King\". Even many years after the implementation of the letters patent, a variety of matters continue to be submitted exclusively to the sovereign, such as the creation of honours, the appointment of governors general, authorising declarations of war, signatures of full powers for the signing of treaties in the heads of state form, signatures of ratifications of such treaties, and the approval of Canadian ambassadors to and from foreign countries.\n\nThe Letters Patent of 1947 have been widely misconstrued, both intentionally and unintentionally, as effecting a \"transfer\" of all the powers of the Crown to the governor general, and thus putting the governor general in a position equal to that of the Queen. Even former governors general have failed to grasp the essence of the Letters Patent. For example, under the tenure of Michaëlle Jean, nearly all references to the Queen were removed from the governor general's website, citing the 1947 Letters Patent as \"transferring all the duties of Head of State of Canada to the Governor General\". This opinion seems to have surfaced under former Governor General Adrienne Clarkson, who in her memoirs expressed that even \"many politicians don't seem to know that the final authority of the state was transferred from the monarch to the Governor General in the Letters Patent of 1947\", a statement determined to be \"nonsense on Clarkson’s part\" and where her referring to herself as a \"head of state\" simply reinforced her \"misunderstanding of the Letters Patent\". This misunderstanding came to a head in 2009 when Michaëlle Jean also stated that she was in fact Canada's head of state, which led to a rare public rebuke from the Prime Minister of Canada, Stephen Harper, who stated \"categorically that Queen Elizabeth II is Canada's Head of State\" and that the governor general serves as the Queen's representative in Canada. It is apparent from political correspondence of the time that it was never the belief of the government that such powers had ever been transferred. In addition, the tabling of Bill C-60 in 1978, which moved to legally transfer the powers exercised by the Queen to the governor general, would have been completely redundant if such a transfer had already occurred 31 years previous.\n\nWhile the role of the governor general is largely considered a ceremonial one, the powers of the Crown that were delegated to the Office of the Governor General in 1947 are substantial. Increased attention is sometimes brought to these powers by political events, such as the 2008 and 2009 prorogations of the federal parliament, which serve to increasingly highlight the role that the governor general plays within the Canadian constitution. Even though the monarch's delegation of powers put the governor general \"not in quite the same position as the Sovereign in regard to the exercise of certain prerogative powers\", the 1947 Letters Patent serve to allow the Canadian political system a greater amount of flexibility in the exercise of the Canadian Crown's powers.\n"}
{"id": "25594091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25594091", "title": "McD v. L", "text": "McD v. L\n\nMcD v. L is a ruling by the Supreme Court of Ireland, handed down on 10 December 2009, that granted a sperm donor visitation rights to a child born via artificial insemination. The case has been viewed as a victory by advocates for the rights of sperm donors and the men's rights movement.\n\nThe donor, a gay man whose identity remains anonymous, had been friends with the lesbian couple to whom he donated sperm in 2006. However, the trio subsequently had a falling out and the women attempted to relocate to Australia. The donor obtained an injunction to prevent the mothers from leaving the country. He subsequently sought legal guardianship of the child.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32998490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32998490", "title": "Microattribution", "text": "Microattribution\n\nThe term microattribution (a form of data citation) was first defined as \"giving database accessions the same citation conventions and indices that journal articles currently enjoy\". In the sense that the purpose of precise attribution is to extend the scholarly convention of giving citation credit, the provenance of a piece of scholarship (observation or data deposition) is recognized to give credit and priority to a preceding author. Microattribution is thus defined as \"a scholarly contribution smaller than a journal article being ascribed to a particular author\" or \"a small scholarly contribution being ascribed to a particular author\". Of course, since data accessions can describe contributions that can vastly exceed research articles in size and quality, quantum attribution or precise citation might be better terms. Barend Mons and Jan Velterop proposed nanopublications for single, attributable and machine-readable assertions in scientific literature.\n\nThe concept was introduced in a February 2007 blog post \"Duke of URL\" by Myles Axton. \"In the interests of giving credit to the resources geneticists find most useful, here are the numbers of papers citing the most frequently cited links\"\n\nThe term was first used in an April 2007 editorial published in \"Nature Genetics\". \"[The Human Variome Project] will need to introduce publishing innovations at both ends of the citation spectrum. It will need to track the citation of each variant's accession code in papers, database entries and across the web. This closing of the online publication loop might be termed microattribution.\" \n\nSubsequent editorials and blog posts elaborated the idea that the provenance of data accession codes was inseparable from the data and could be used to give credit to the contributors. \"Accession numbers to database entries are routinely used for data retrieval. They should now also be used to accrue quantitative credit for their authors in a systematic process of microattribution.\"\n\nThe first and best definition of microattribution is actually \"Giving database accessions the same citation conventions and indices that journal articles currently enjoy\" from the November 2007 Free Association blog post \"Towards a hermeneutics of quantitative citation\" a tongue-in-cheek title inspired by the Sokal/Bricmont hoax. Microattribution is no hoax. Whether it will be \"transformative\" remains to be seen!\n\nAn example of the value of microattributions can be seen in the description of genetic variation. A paper published in \"Nature Genetics\" paper in March 2011 concluded that microattribution demonstrably increased the reporting of human variants, leading to a comprehensive online resource for systematically describing human genetic variation. A paper on microattribution and nanopublication as means to incentivize the placement of human genome variation data into the public domain was published in June 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "3357586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3357586", "title": "Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Act 1840", "text": "Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Act 1840\n\nThe Municipal Corporations Act (Ireland) 1840 (3 & 4 Vict. c. 108), \"An Act for the Regulation of Municipal Corporations in Ireland\", was passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom on 10 August 1840. It was one of the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Acts 1840 to 1888.\n\nThe Act followed similar lines to the Municipal Corporations Act 1835 which reformed municipal boroughs in England and Wales. Prior to the passing of the Act, there were sixty-eight borough corporations in Ireland, many of them were ineffective, some virtually defunct and none of them in any way representative of their populations. The Act dissolved all but ten of the corporations.\n\nThe ten reformed corporations, which were named in Schedule A to the Act were to be styled as \"Mayor, Aldermen and Burgesses\", with the exception of Dublin where the title \"Right Honourable Lord Mayor\" was retained.\n\nUnder section 13 of the Act, the remaining 58 borough corporations were dissolved on 25 October 1840. The extinguished boroughs were listed in schedules B and I of the Act. Boroughs in schedule B could petition for a grant of a charter restoring borough status, as could any town with a population of more than 3,000. Boroughs in Schedule I were already effectively extinct at the time of the passing of the Act, and so were not permitted to apply for such a charter.\n\nWexford's application for restoration of its charter was granted in 1846. Cashel also applied, but without success.\n\nBoroughs in Schedule B\n\nBoroughs in Schedule I\n\nMany of the extinguished boroughs had an additional form of local government in place, in the form of commissioners appointed under the Lighting of Towns (Ireland) Act, 1828. Where such a body existed, it was deemed to be the successor to the corporation. Section 16 of the Act provided that any borough dissolved with property worth more than £100, and which did not have commissioners under the 1828 Act, should have a board of \"Municipal Commissioners\" established. In most cases, the commissioners appointed under the terms of the 1840 Act eventually adopted the terms of the 1828 Act or its replacement, the Towns Improvement (Ireland) Act 1854. By 1876, only Carrickfergus was still governed by commissioners appointed under the 1840 Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "9425205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9425205", "title": "Narrow tailoring", "text": "Narrow tailoring\n\nNarrow tailoring (also known as narrow framing) is the legal principle that a law be written to specifically fulfill only its intended goals.\n\nThis phrase is most commonly invoked in constitutional law cases in the United States, such as First Amendment cases, or Equal Protection cases involving racial discrimination by creating racial distinctions. In the case \"Grutter v. Bollinger\" (2003), the United States Supreme Court held that:\n\nEven in the limited circumstance when drawing racial distinctions is permissible to further a compelling state interest, government is still constrained under equal protection clause in how it may pursue that end: the means chosen to accomplish the government's asserted purpose must be specifically and narrowly framed to accomplish that purpose.\n\nRegarding affirmative action, narrow tailoring is used to justify the discrimination that universities employ when considering race as a factor in admissions. Also in the case \"Grutter v. Bollinger\", it is stated \"truly individualized consideration demands that race be used in a flexible, non-mechincal way.\" Here, race is being used a \"plus\" factor for minority students.\n\n"}
{"id": "2994777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994777", "title": "North Western Reporter", "text": "North Western Reporter\n\nThe North Western Reporter and \"North Western Reporter, Second Series\" are United States regional case law reporters. It is part of the National Reporter System created by John B. West for West Publishing Company, which is now part of Thomson West.\n\nThe North Western Reporter contains published appellate court case decisions for:\n\nWhen cited, \"North Western Reporter\" and \"North Western Reporter, Second Series\" are abbreviated \"N.W.\" and \"N.W.2d\", respectively.\n"}
{"id": "35984240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35984240", "title": "OMG – Oh My God!", "text": "OMG – Oh My God!\n\nOMG – Oh My God! is a 2012 Indian satirical comedy-drama film. The storyline is based on a Gujarati stage-play entitled \"Kanji Virudh Kanji\" and on the 2001 Australian film \"The Man Who Sued God.\" It is directed by Umesh Shukla. The film features Akshay Kumar and Paresh Rawal in the lead roles, along with Mithun Chakraborty. Made on a budget of , the film released on 28 September 2012 to widespread critical acclaim and was declared a blockbuster. The film was remade in Telugu as \"Gopala Gopala\" in 2015 with Venkatesh and Pawan Kalyan in the lead roles and in Kannada with Upendra and Sudeep titled as \"Mukunda Murari in 2016\".\n\nKanji Lalji Mehta (Paresh Rawal), a middle-class atheist Hindu owns a shop of Hindu idols and antiques in Mumbai. He is cursed by Siddheshwar Maharaj (Govind Namdeo) when he stopped his son from playing dahi handi. A low-intensity earthquake hits the city, and Kanji's shop is the only shop that is destroyed.\n\nNext day at the insurance office, Kanji and his neighbor-assistant Mahadev learn that the disaster claim does not cover any damage caused by natural calamities classified under \"Act of God\". Running out of options, Kanji decides to file a lawsuit against God but fails to find a lawyer for such a lawsuit. Finally, he meets Hanif Qureshi (Om Puri) and his daughter (Puja Gupta), a poor Muslim lawyer family. Qureshi, a disabled man, helps him file the case as Kanji decides to fight on his own. Legal notices are sent to the insurance company as well as to religious priests, Siddheshwar Maharaj, Gopi Maiyya (Poonam Jhawer) and their group's founder, Leeladhar Swamy (Mithun Chakraborty) summoning them to the court as representatives of God on earth.\n\nDuring the preliminary hearing, opposition lawyer Sardesai (Mahesh Manjrekar) asks the judge to dismiss the case. But Kanji points out that religious groups claim to represent God on Earth and speak on his behalf. Hence, they are answerable for his actions. The Judge agrees and the court accepts the case. However, Kanji soon finds himself trapped amongst armed fundamentalists, with his mortgage bank occupying the house, and his wife leaving him. In all instances, Kanji is rescued by Krishna Vasudev Yadav (Akshay Kumar), who claims to be a real estate agent, rides a hot-shot motorbike. Krishna buys Kanji's house from the bank, but allows Kanji to stay with him.\n\nThe lawsuit causes a public outcry. As Kanji and Krishna watch this on TV, Krishna advises him to go to the media and present his views to the public. Kanji's interview receives wide coverage and public opinion swings in his favour. Meanwhile, hundreds of people, whose insurance claims were rejected due to \"Act Of God\" show up at Hanif Qureshi's house and join the lawsuit. Kanji agrees to fight on behalf of all of them. In the next court session, Catholic priests and Muslim Mullahs are also summoned to the court as defendants. However, lawyer Sardesai points out that Kanji has no document that can prove the disaster was an \"Act of God\". The judge orders Kanji to present a written proof that will support his claim.\n\nKanji loses hope, but Krishna rescues the day again by advising Kanji to read the Bhagavad Gita, and the other holy books such as The Quran and The Bible, telling him that he would find the answer of all his questions. Kanji studies the books intensively for a month. In the next session, Kanji points out a passage present in all the holy books which says that \"This world is a creation of God, and it is his will to allow it to grow or destroy\", which strengthens his case. As he nears the end of his argument, he suddenly loses consciousness. He is rushed to the hospital, where doctors unsuccessfully try to revive him, leaving him comatose. They announce to the media that Kanji has been paralyzed, and that only God can now save him. When Kanji opens his eyes, he finds Krishna in front of him. Krishna caresses the left side of Kanji's body with his key chain and Kanji is able to walk again.\n\nKrishna then reveals to the confused Kanji that he himself is Lord Krishna, and he has saved Kanji to show him that God does exist. Kanji then learns that he has been in a coma for a month and that a lot of things have happened during the period. The lawsuit's verdict was in his favor and religious organisations were ordered by court to pay the compensation to all the plaintiffs; people have started calling Kanji a \"God\". Meanwhile, Leeladhar, Gopi Maiyya, and Siddheshwar have opened a temple dedicated to Kanji and accumulated millions in donations. He also learns that as per his own \"will\", he is about to be removed from the ventilator and thousands have gathered for his funeral procession. Krishna gives him a choice of stopping the procession or to sit back quietly. Kanji decides to fight and Krishna takes him on his motorbike to stop the procession. Kanji arrives to find his statues erected at the place where his shop once stood. He wades through the stunned crowd and breaks the statue, then admonishes the crowd about trusting in God-men. He advises them to search for God in themselves, not in statues. When the crowd's anger turns towards the collected God-men, he prevents them from further violence and tells them to allow the cheating group to leave peacefully, advising them not to believe in them anymore.\n\nAfter successfully completing the job, he goes back to Krishna to thank him, only to find him and his motorcycle disappeared. Kanji's family arrive and they are reunited. On their way home, Kanji sees Krishna's key chain on the floor. When he is about to secure it inside his jacket, he hears Krishna's voice, telling him to get rid of the key chain as fear of god was what he fought against all this time. Kanji smiles and throws it away and sees it disappear into the sky with a flash.\n\nThe soundtrack of \"OMG – Oh My God!\" is composed by Himesh Reshammiya, Sachin - Jigar and Meet Bros Anjjan, whilst the lyrics have been penned by Shabbir Ahmed, Kumaar, Swanand Kirkire and Subrat Sinha. The album features Reshammiya, Shreya Ghoshal, Kailash Kher, Benny Dayal, Ash King, Suraj Jagan, Keerthi Sagathia, Zubeen Garg, Meet Bros Anjjan, Arya Acharya, Mohd Irfan, Aman Trikha and Parash Nath behind the mic.\n\nProducer Akshay Kumar announced the film in 2012. When the promos of the movie were released at first, people heard actor Salman Khan's voice and assumed that he was playing a role in the movie or maybe he was the narrator. Later, the director Umesh Shukla went on to clarify that Salman's voice was only being used in the promos of the movie. The director was quoted telling IANS, \"He (Salman) will not be narrating in the film. He has that voice. My film is a light-hearted comedy and we need someone who can do justice to the visuals.\"\n\nLater, it was confirmed that Kumar's close friend Paresh Rawal who appeared in the original play \"Kishen vs Kanhaiya\" was playing the lead role with Akshay himself playing the role of Krishna in the movie. Shahrukh Khan was also expected to play a supporting role in the film but later opted out of the project, and the role was taken over by Mithun Chakraborty. The filming was reported to have begun in January 2012. Also, director Prabhu Deva, who earlier directed Kumar's \"Rowdy Rathore\", has been roped in to appear in an item-number along with Sonakshi Sinha. Akshay Kumar did a supporting role in the film and seen riding a specially designed bike for the movie theme, worth 1 million.\n\n\"OMG – Oh My God!\" released worldwide on 28 September 2012. Prior to its theatrical release, the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) certified the film with a U certificate.\n\nThe film was critically well received.\n\nTaran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama gave the film 3.5 out of 5 stars and said \"On the whole, OMG – OH MY GOD! is a thought-provoking adaptation of a massively successful play. A movie tackling a sensitive and an untouched subject matter, it will find its share of advocates and adversaries, but the social message the movie conveys comes across loud and clear and that's one of the prime reasons why OMG becomes a deserving watch\". Sukanya Verma of Rediff rated it 4 out of 5 reviewing \"A brave and absorbing blend of satire, fable and fantasy that brings our attention to the misuse and commercialisation of religion\". Faisal Saif of Independent Bollywood rated it 4 out of 5 and said \"Strongly Recommended. Fearless concept with some Fearless performances\".\n\nThe film had a low opening but showed good growth on its 2nd and 3rd day and collected nett in its opening weekend. Despite slow start, the film managed to gross collections of nett in its first week. The film collected in its second week. The film continued its successful run in its third week and make a total of around in three weeks. The film raked another in its fourth week to make a total of in four weeks. Overseas, \"OMG – Oh My God!\" grossed US$2.5 million in 10 days. At the end of 17 days, \"OMG – Oh My God!\" had grossed .\n\nThe movie generated a lot of controversy over the depictions of prominent Hindu gods and Indian spiritual traditions. Jalandhar State Mahila Congress Vice President Nimisha Mehta lodged a complaint against the lead actors, Paresh Rawal and Akshay Kumar, and the producers of the film, for hurting religious sentiments of Hindus. The notice asked them to delete objectionable scenes and dialogues. Akshay Kumar was given police protection, after this incident.\n\nThe movie was banned in the United Arab Emirates. Vikram Malhotra of Viacom18 Pictures told the \"Hindustan Times\": \"We haven't been given an official statement yet, but from what we've been told, the content of the movie is too sensitive.\n\nThis movie is an adaptation of the Australian movie \"The Man Who Sued God\" released in 2001. On 12 July 2014, Madhya Pradesh High Court under the bench of Justice Ajay Manik Rao Khanwilkar and Alok Aradhe issued a notice to Akshay Kumar and Paresh Rawal for hurting religious sentiments of Hindus.\n\nThe movie was awarded the Best Hindi film award by Institute for Research and Documentation in Social Sciences (IRDS) during the second IRDS Hindi Film Awards for social concern. The film has won the award for Best Adapted Screenplay in 60th National Film Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "28516920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28516920", "title": "Papal judge-delegate", "text": "Papal judge-delegate\n\nA papal judge delegate was a type of judicial appointment created during the 12th century by the medieval papacy where the pope would designate a local judge, often an ecclesiastic, to decide a case that had been appealed to the papal court.\n\nThe system began during the pontificate of Pope Pascal II (1099–1118), when the first records appear of the papacy delegating some of its judicial authority to others for the resolution of cases. At first, it was used in order to expedite the discovery of local knowledge of cases, rather than to reduce the papal court's workload. Examples of this early stage include a case from Wales, during the pontificate of Pope Innocent II. This was a dispute between Bernard, the Bishop of St Davids, and Urban, the Bishop of Llandaff, and was apparently delegated to acquire local knowledge of the dispute. It is only later, during the pontificate of Pope Alexander III that the papal courts appears to have recognized that the delegation system could also reduce the volume of cases that had to be decided at Rome.\n\nAn important factor in the growth of the papal judges-delegate system was the corresponding growth of the papal judicial system during the 12th century. Often, cases referred to a judge-delegate were those that were particularly complex, and where the local knowledge of the appointee would be helpful. The appointment ended with the resolution of the case he had been appointed to decide.\n\nThe numbers of judges-delegate increased greatly during the 1160s and 1170s. English records for this time are particularly abundant, with a number of English bishops – including Gilbert Foliot, Bartholomew Iscanus, Roger of Worcester – serving over 60 times as judge-delegate for the papacy. Conflicts often arose between papal legates and judges-delegate, and Pope Celestine III ruled that a papal legate could not change the decision of a judge-delegate but was allowed to confirm or implement the decision. Celestine did indicate that the legate was higher in rank than the judge, although he was sovereign in matters relating to his appointed case. Alexander III's decrees on the judicial delegation system form the basis for the description of the system in Pope Gregory IX's \"Decretales\" which were published in 1234. Of the 43 items dealing with papal judges-delegate in the \"Decretales\", 18 are Alexander's and a further 15 are from Pope Innocent III.\n\nPapal documents referred to the delegates as \"iudices delegati\". A further development was the grant of exemptions from appointment as judge-delegate, with such exemptions first appearing around 1140. By the end of the 12th century, such exemptions were sought after by local ecclesiastics.\n\n"}
{"id": "683427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683427", "title": "Pirate Act", "text": "Pirate Act\n\nThe Protecting Intellectual Rights Against Theft and Expropriation Act of 2004, better known as the Pirate Act, was a bill in the United States Congress that would have let federal prosecutors file civil lawsuits against suspected copyright infringers. Prior to the introduction of this act, only criminal lawsuits could be filed against suspected infringers.\n\nBy the mid-1990s, p2p file sharing over the Internet had risen to prominence. Until 1997, copyright infringement was only considered a criminal offense if it was for the purpose of \"commercial advantage or private financial gain.\" During this year, the NET Act was passed, which allowed for federal prosecutors to file criminal lawsuits against suspected infringers, without requiring evidence of commercial benefit or financial gain. However, it proved difficult to find legitimate criminal charges, and by 2004, this privilege had yet to be invoked by federal prosecutors.\n\nAs file sharing became more popular, the music industry experienced a steady three-year decline in revenue. From 2001-2004, the industry lost $5 billion, partially attributed to the increase in online music piracy on websites such as Kazaa, Morpheus and Grokster. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) had filed thousands of civil lawsuits without the aid of federal prosecutors, hoping to deter music piracy at large. One of the first and most famous online copyright infringement lawsuits - Capitol v. Thomas - resulted in a mother of four owing $1.5 million to various music labels for violating copyrights on 24 songs.\n\nThe Pirate Act was introduced in the United States Senate as by Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) on March 25, 2004. It would allow the United States Department of Justice to bring civil copyright infringement cases against individuals suspected of illegal file-sharing on the Internet. In filing a civil lawsuit, knowledge of infringement and willful intent are not required criteria, as they are in criminal cases. Thus, there is a lower burden of proof, making it easier for the DOJ to pursue infringers. Penalties for violating the terms of the bill included fines and prison time of up to 10 years if someone shared 2,500 pieces or more of content, such as songs or movies. Sharing a file that is determined (by a judge) to be worth more than $10,000 can also result in prison time. Additionally, anyone who released content that had not yet been released in wide distribution could also face penalties.\n\nIn his argument in favor of the bill, Senator Leahy stated, \"Prosecutors can rarely justify bringing criminal charges, and copyright owners have been left to fend for themselves, defending their rights only where they can afford to do so. In a world in which a computer and an Internet connection are all the tools you need to engage in massive piracy, this is an intolerable predicament.\"\n\nIn addition to granting the DOJ this privilege, the bill also stipulated that the Attorney General would have six months to \"develop a program to ensure effective implementation and use of the authority for civil enforcement of the copyright laws\", and report back to Congress on the details of said lawsuits, including the total number of lawsuits and the financial statistics. The DOJ would receive $2 million in order to fund the program at its conception.\n\nPro\n\n\nCon\n\n\nThe Pirate Act was grouped into an omnibus bill - The Intellectual Property Protection Act (2004) - with seven other related pieces of legislation, including the Artists' Rights and Theft Prevention Act of 2004 (ART Act). It passed the Senate by a unanimous vote on June 25, 2004, and was referred to the U.S. House Committee on the Judiciary on August 4, 2004, where it eventually failed to pass. Various reincarnations of the Pirate Act were proposed and passed through the Senate in both 2005 and 2006, but both times it again failed to pass through the House.\n\nAnother variation - The Intellectual Property Enforcement Act of 2007 - was proposed in the Senate on November 6, 2007, but no progress was made.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "981021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981021", "title": "Prize money", "text": "Prize money\n\nPrize money has a distinct meaning in warfare, especially naval warfare, where it was a monetary reward paid out under prize law to the crew of a ship for capturing or sinking an enemy vessel. The claims for the bounty are usually heard in a Prize Court.\n\nThis article covers the arrangements of the British Royal Navy, but similar arrangements were used in the navies of other nations, and existed in the British Army and other armies, especially when a city had been taken by storm.\n\nIn the 16th and 17th centuries, captured ships were legally Crown property. In order to reward and encourage sailors' zeal at no cost to the Crown, it became customary to pass on all or part of the value of a captured ship and its cargo to the capturing captain for distribution to his crew. (Similarly, all belligerents of the period issued Letters of Marque and Reprisal to civilian privateers, authorising them to make war on enemy shipping; as payment, the privateer sold off the captured booty.)\n\nThis practice was formalised via the Cruisers and Convoys Act of 1708. An Admiralty Prize Court was established to evaluate claims and condemn prizes, and the scheme of division of the money was specified. This system, with minor changes, lasted throughout the colonial, Revolutionary, and Napoleonic Wars.\n\nIf the prize were an enemy merchantman, the prize money came from the sale of both ship and cargo. If it were a warship, and repairable, usually the Crown bought it at a fair price; additionally, the Crown added \"head money\" of 5 pounds per enemy sailor aboard the captured warship. Prizes were keenly sought, for the value of a captured ship was often such that a crew could make a year's pay for a few hours' fighting. Hence boarding and hand-to-hand fighting remained common long after naval cannons developed the ability to sink the enemy from afar.\n\nAll ships in sight of a capture shared in the prize money, as their presence was thought to encourage the enemy to surrender without fighting until sunk.\n\nThe distribution of prize money to the crews of the ships involved persisted until 1918. Then the Naval Prize Act changed the system to one where the prize money was paid into a common fund from which a payment was made to all naval personnel whether or not they were involved in the action. In 1945 this was further modified to allow for the distribution to be made to Royal Air Force (RAF) personnel who had been involved in the capture of enemy ships; however, prize claims had been awarded to pilots and observers of the Royal Naval Air Service since c. 1917, and later the RAF.\n\nThe following scheme for distribution of prize money was used for much of the Napoleonic wars, the heyday of prize warfare. Allocation was by eighths. Two eighths of the prize money went to the captain or commander, generally propelling him upwards in political and financial circles. One eighth of the money went to the admiral or commander-in-chief who signed the ship's written orders (unless the orders came directly from the Admiralty in London, in which case this eighth also went to the captain). One eighth was divided among the lieutenants, sailing master, and captain of marines, if any. One eighth was divided among the wardroom warrant officers (surgeon, purser, and chaplain), standing warrant officers (carpenter, boatswain, and gunner), lieutenant of marines, and the master's mates. One eighth was divided among the junior warrant and petty officers, their mates, sergeants of marines, captain's clerk, surgeon's mates, and midshipmen. The final two eighths were divided among the crew, with able and specialist seamen receiving larger shares than ordinary seamen, landsmen, and boys. The pool for the seamen was divided into shares, with each able seaman getting two shares in the pool (referred to as a fifth-class share), an ordinary seaman received a share and a half (referred to as a sixth-class share), landsmen received a share each (a seventh-class share), and boys received a half share each (referred to as an eighth-class share).\n\nPerhaps the greatest amount of prize money awarded was for the capture of the Spanish frigate \"Hermione\" on 31 May 1762 by the British frigate and sloop . The two captains, Herbert Sawyer and Philemon Pownoll, received about £65,000 apiece, while each seaman and Marine got £482–485. \n\nThe prize money from the capture of the Spanish frigates \"Thetis\" and \"Santa Brigada\" in October 1799, £652,000, was split up among the crews of four British frigates, with each captain being awarded £40,730 and the Seamen each receiving £182 4s 9¾d or the equivalent of 10 years' pay.\n\nIn January 1807, the frigate \"Caroline\" took the Spanish ship \"San Rafael\" as a prize, netting Captain Peter Rainier £52,000.\n\nFor more on the Prize Court during World War I, \"see also\" Maxwell Hendry Maxwell-Anderson.\n\nThe crewmen of hold the distinction of being the last American sailors to receive prize money, for capturing the German freighter \"Odenwald\" on 6 November 1941, just before America's entry into World War II, though the money would not be awarded until 1947.\n\n"}
{"id": "24698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24698", "title": "Proximate cause", "text": "Proximate cause\n\nIn law, a proximate cause is an event sufficiently related to an injury that the courts deem the event to be the cause of that injury. There are two types of causation in the law: cause-in-fact, and proximate (or legal) cause. Cause-in-fact is determined by the \"but for\" test: But for the action, the result would not have happened. (For example, but for running the red light, the collision would not have occurred.) The action is a necessary condition, but may not be a sufficient condition, for the resulting injury. A few circumstances exist where the but for test is ineffective (see #But-for test). Since but-for causation is very easy to show (but for stopping to tie your shoe, you would not have missed the train and would not have been mugged), a second test is used to determine if an action is close enough to a harm in a \"chain of events\" to be legally valid. This test is called proximate cause. Proximate cause is a key principle of Insurance and is concerned with how the loss or damage actually occured. There are several competing theories of proximate cause (see #Other factors). For an act to be deemed to cause a harm, both tests must be met; proximate cause is a legal limitation on cause-in-fact.\n\nThe formal Latin term for \"but for\" (cause-in-fact) causation, is sine qua non causation.\n\nA few circumstances exist where the \"but for\" test is complicated, or the test is ineffective. The primary examples are:\n\nSince but-for causation is very easy to show and does not assign culpability (but for the rain, you would not have crashed your carthe rain is not morally or legally culpable but still constitutes a cause), there is a second test used to determine if an action is close enough to a harm in a \"chain of events\" to be a legally culpable cause of the harm. This test is called proximate cause, from the Latin \"proxima causa\".\n\nThere are several competing theories of proximate cause.\n\nThe most common test of proximate cause under the American legal system is foreseeability. It determines if the harm resulting from an action could reasonably have been predicted. The test is used in most cases only in respect to the type of harm. It is foreseeable, for example, that throwing a baseball at someone could cause them a blunt-force injury. But proximate cause is still met if a thrown baseball misses the target and knocks a heavy object off a shelf behind them, which causes a blunt-force injury. Evident in Corrigan v HSE (2011 IEHC 305).\n\nThis is also known as the \"extraordinary in hindsight\" rule.\n\nDirect causation is a minority test, which addresses only the metaphysical concept of causation. It does not matter how foreseeable the result as long as what the negligent party's physical action can be tied to what actually happened. The main thrust of direct causation is that there are no intervening causes between an act and the resulting harm. An intervening cause has several requirements: it must 1) be independent of the original act, 2) be a voluntary human act or an abnormal natural event, and 3) occur in time between the original act and the harm.\n\nDirect causation is the only theory that addresses only causation, and does not take into account the culpability of the original actor.\n\nThe plaintiff must demonstrate that the defendant's action increased the risk that the particular harm suffered by the plaintiff would occur. If the action were repeated, the likelihood of the harm would correspondingly increase. This is also called foreseeable risk.\n\nThe harm within the risk (HWR) test determines whether the victim was among the class of persons who could foreseeably be harmed, and whether the harm was foreseeable within the class of risks. It is the strictest test of causation, made famous by Benjamin Cardozo in \"Palsgraf v. Long Island Railroad Co.\" case under New York state law.\n\nThe first element of the test is met if the injured person was a member of a class of people who could be expected to be put at risk of injury by the action. For example, a pedestrian, as an expected user of sidewalks, is among the class of people put at risk by driving on a sidewalk, whereas a driver who is distracted by another driver driving on the sidewalk, and consequently crashes into a utility pole, is not.\n\nThe HWR test is no longer much used, outside of New York law. When it is used, it is used to consider the class of people injured, not the type of harm. The main criticism of this test is that it is preeminently concerned with culpability, rather than actual causation.\n\nReferred to by the Reporters of the Second and Third Restatements of the Law of Torts as the \"scope-of-the-risk\" test, the term \"Risk Rule\" was coined by the University of Texas School of Law's Dean Robert Keeton. The rule is that “[a]n actor’s liability is limited to those physical harms that result from the risks that made the actor’s conduct tortious.” Thus, the operative question is \"what were the particular risks that made an actor's conduct negligent?\" If the injury suffered is not the result of one of those risks, there can be no recovery. Two examples will illustrate this principle:\n\n\nThe most obvious objection to this approach is that it requires courts to consider an arguably endless possibility of hypothetical situations. Not only can such an undertaking be an exercise in futility, but this approach lacks even a minimal amount of precision such that parties might be able to predict outcomes and results during litigation. Notwithstanding the already-complex nature of this and other questions relating to proximate or legal cause, this fluid standard could be misused by plaintiff-friendly or defense-favoring judges in attempts to vindicate their own personal philosophies regarding the appropriate reach of tort law.\n\nThe doctrine of proximate cause is notoriously confusing. The doctrine is phrased in the language of causation, but in most of the cases in which proximate cause is actively litigated, there is not much real dispute that the defendant but-for caused the plaintiff's injury. The doctrine is actually used by judges in a somewhat arbitrary fashion to limit the scope of the defendant's liability to a subset of the total class of potential plaintiffs who may have suffered some harm from the defendant's actions. For an understanding of the broader view of causation which proximate cause circumscribes, see butterfly effect.\n\nFor example, in the two famous \"Kinsman Transit\" cases from the 2nd Circuit (exercising admiralty jurisdiction over a New York incident), it was clear that mooring a boat improperly could lead to the risk of that boat drifting away and crashing into another boat, and that both boats could crash into a bridge, which collapsed and blocked the river, and in turn, the wreckage could flood the land adjacent to the river, as well as prevent any traffic from traversing the river until it had been cleared. But under proximate cause, the property owners adjacent to the river could sue (\"Kinsman I\"), but not the owners of the boats or cargoes which could not move until the river was reopened (\"Kinsman II\").\n\nTherefore, in the final version of the \"Restatement (Third), Torts: Liability for Physical and Emotional Harm\", published in 2010, the American Law Institute argued that proximate cause should be replaced with scope of liability. Chapter 6 of the Restatement is titled \"Scope of Liability (Proximate Cause).\" It begins with a special note explaining the Institute's decision to reframe the concept in terms of \"scope of liability\" because it does not involve true causation, and to also include \"proximate cause\" in the chapter title in parentheses to help judges and lawyers understand the connection between the old and new terminology. The Institute added that it \"fervently hopes\" the parenthetical will be unnecessary in a future fourth Restatement of Torts.\n\nA related doctrine is the insurance law doctrine of efficient proximate cause. Under this rule, in order to determine whether a loss resulted from a cause covered under an insurance policy, a court looks for the predominant cause which sets into motion the chain of events producing the loss, which may not necessarily be the \"last\" event that immediately preceded the loss. Many insurers have attempted to contract around efficient proximate cause through the use of \"anti-concurrent causation\" (ACC) clauses, under which if a covered cause and a noncovered cause join together to cause a loss, the loss is not covered.\n\nACC clauses frequently come into play in jurisdictions where property insurance does not normally include flood insurance and expressly excludes coverage for floods. The classic example of how ACC clauses work is where a hurricane hits a building with wind and flood hazards \"at the same time.\" If the evidence later shows that the wind blew off a building's roof and then water damage resulted only because there was no roof to prevent rain from entering, there would be coverage, but if the building was simultaneously flooded (i.e., because the rain caused a nearby body of water to rise or simply overwhelmed local sewers), an ACC clause would completely block coverage for the \"entire\" loss (even if the building owner could otherwise attribute damage to wind v. flood).\n\nA minority of jurisdictions have ruled ACC clauses to be unenforceable as against public policy, but they are generally enforceable in the majority of jurisdictions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2616401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2616401", "title": "Prudent man rule", "text": "Prudent man rule\n\nThe Prudent Man Rule is based on common law stemming from the 1830 Massachusetts court formulation, \"Harvard College v. Amory\" The prudent man rule, written by Massachusetts Justice Samuel Putnam (1768-1853), directs trustees \"to observe how men of prudence, discretion and intelligence manage their own affairs, not in regard to speculation, but in regard to the permanent disposition of their funds, considering the probable income, as well as the probable safety of the capital to be invested.\"\n\nUnder the Prudent Man Rule, when the governing trust instrument is silent concerning the types of investments permitted, the fiduciary is required to invest trust assets as a \"prudent man\" would invest his own property with the following factors in mind: \n\nThe application of these general principles depends on the type of account administered. The Prudent Man Rule continues to be the prevailing statute in a small number of states, in particular with regards to investments permitted by mutually-chartered institutions such as savings banks and insurance companies.\n\nThe Prudent Man Rule requires that each investment be judged on its own merits and that speculative or risky investments must be avoided. Under the Prudent Man Rule, certain types of investments, such as second mortgages or new business ventures, are viewed as intrinsically speculative and therefore prohibited as fiduciary investments. As with any fiduciary relationship, margin accounts and short selling of uncovered securities are also prohibited.\n\nIn contrast with the modern Prudent Investor Rule, isolated investments in a portfolio may be imprudent on individual merits at the time of acquisition, however, as a part of a portfolio, the investment could be prudent. Thus, a fiduciary may not be held liable for a loss in one investment.\n\nSince the Prudent Man Rule was last revised in 1959, numerous investment products have been introduced or have come into the mainstream. For example, in 1959, there were 155 mutual funds with nearly $16 billion in assets. By year-end 2000, mutual funds had grown to 10,725, with $6.9 trillion in assets. In addition, investors have become more sophisticated and are more attuned to investments since the last revision of the Rule. As these two concepts converged, the Prudent Man Rule became less relevant. This discounting of the relevance of the prudent man rule is more the result of market forces than it is of the needs of individuals for \"safety of capital\". The 10,000+ mutual funds of 2000 have grown to over 15,000 mutual funds in 2006.\n\nThe Prudent Man Rule in its broader interpretations implies that the fiduciary should perform enough due diligence to ensure that the company meets the investment needs of the investors. Typical due diligence includes discussions with management, vendors and customers, as well as proper evaluation of any risk factors that might affect the performance of the company or its securities.\n\nThe modern interpretation of the \"Prudent Man Rule\" goes beyond the assessment of each asset individually to include the concept of due diligence and diversification. This is sometimes referred to as the \"Prudent Investor Rule\". The logic is this: an asset may be too risky to put all your money in (thus failing the Prudent Man Rule) but may still be very diversifying and therefore beneficial in a small proportion of the total portfolio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24844841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24844841", "title": "Purposive approach", "text": "Purposive approach\n\nThe purposive approach (sometimes referred to as purposivism, purposive construction, purposive interpretation, or the modern principle in construction) is an approach to statutory and constitutional interpretation under which common law courts interpret an enactment (a statute, part of a statute, or a clause of a constitution) within the context of the law's purpose.\n\nPurposive interpretation is a derivation of mischief rule set in \"Heydon's Case\", and intended to replace the mischief rule, the plain meaning rule and the golden rule. Purposive interpretation is used when the courts use extraneous materials from the pre-enactment phase of legislation, including early drafts, hansards, committee reports, and white papers. The purposive interpretation involves a rejection of the exclusionary rule.\n\nIsraeli jurist Aharon Barak views purposive interpretation as a legal construction that combines elements of the subjective and objective. Barak states that the subjective elements include the intention of the author of the text, whereas the objective elements include the intent of the reasonable author and the legal system’s fundamental values.\n\nCritics of purposivism argue it fails to separate the powers between the legislator and the judiciary, as it allows more freedom in interpretation by way of extraneous materials in interpreting the law.\n\nThe plain meaning rule gained popularity during the 18th and 19th centuries as the courts took an increasingly strict view of the words within statutes. Under the plain meaning rule, the words of the statute are given their natural or ordinary meaning. The plain meaning rule of statutory interpretation should be the first rule applied by judges.\n\nOne of the leading statements of the plain meaning rule was made by Chief Justice Nicholas Conyngham Tindal in the \"Sussex Peerage\" (1844) \n\nStrict application of the plain meaning rule can sometime result in \"absurd\" outcomes. Examples of the plain meaning rule producing absurd outcomes can be seen in the following cases:\n\n\nThe golden rule permits the courts to depart from the plain meaning rule if the meaning leads to consequences it considers to be absurd or ambiguous. This was propounded in \"Grey v Pearson\" (1857) where Lord Wensleydale stated\n\nThe degree of absurdity or ambiguity necessary to exercise the golden rule is determined on a case by case basis by the individual judge in question. There are two general situations in which the golden rule may be employed: narrowly, to take the 'better' reading of two alternatives, or more widely, to broaden a rule that, although unambiguous, leads to an absurd outcome.\n\nThe case \"Maddox v Storer [1963] 1 Q.B. 451\" is typical of the more narrow use. In \"Maddox\", the defender had been travelling at over the 30 mph speed limit in a minibus with eleven seats (excluding that of the driver), most of which were unoccupied. Per Road Traffic Act 1960 travelling at over 30 mph in a vehicle ‘adapted to carry more than seven passengers’ was an offence. It was held that \"adapted to\" could be taken to mean \"suitable for\".\n\nThe court applies the golden rule in a wider sense in \"Adler v George\" (1964). Under the Official Secrets Act 1920 it was an offence to obstruct a member of the armed forces 'in the vicinity' of a prohibited place. The defendant was actually in the prohibited place, rather than \"in the vicinity\" of it, at the time of obstruction. The courts had to determine whether “in [the] vicinity of” included on/in the premises. The court applied the golden rule. The court said that in the vicinity did include on or in as well. It would be absurd for a person to be liable if they were near to a prohibited place and not if they were actually in it. The defendant’s conviction was therefore upheld.\n\nIn \"Re Sigsworth\" (1935), a son had murdered his mother. Under slayer or forfeiture rules of long standing in the United Kingdom, he would have been excluded as beneficiary under her will. She had, however, died intestate, and the Administration of Justice Act 1925 provided that her next of kin would inherit. Although the situation was unambiguous, the absurdity inherent in such a situation meant that forfeiture had to be treated as applicable to intestacy rules taking the place of a will as well as wills themselves.\n\nIn \"Construction of Statutes\", Elmer Driedger defines the mischief rule as follows: \n\"Heydon's Case\" (1584) laid out the following statement of the principles underlying what would come to be called the \"mischief rule\":\n\nThe mischief rule saw further development in \"Corkery v Carpenter\" (1951). In a decision of \nthe Court of King’s Bench, the Court had to decide whether a bicycle could be classified as a carriage. According to S.12 of the Licensing Act 1872, a person found drunk in charge of a carriage on the highway can be arrested without a warrant. A man was arrested drunk in charge of a bicycle. According to the plain meaning rule a bike is not a carriage. Under the Mischief rule the bicycle could constitute a carriage. The mischief the act was attempting to remedy was that of people being on the road on transport while drunk. Therefore a bicycle could be classified as a carriage.\n\nIn \"Smith v Hughes\" (1960), the defendant was charged under the Street Offences Act 1959 which made it an offence to solicit prostitution in a public place. The defendant was soliciting from within private premises (windows or on balconies) so they could be seen by the public without entering into the streets. The court applied the mischief rule holding that the activities of the defendant was within the mischief of the Act, and soliciting from within a house, is soliciting and molesting of the public. Therefore it is the same as if the defendant was outside on the street.\n\nIn \"Royal College of Nursing of the UK v DHSS\" (1981), the Royal College of Nursing brought an action challenging the legality of the involvement of nurses in carrying out abortions. The Offences Against the Person Act 1861 made it an offence for any person to carry out an abortion. The Abortion Act 1967 provides an absolute defence for a medical practitioner provided certain well-known conditions are satisfied. Discoveries in medicine meant surgery has more often been replaced with administration of hormones, commonly by nurses. The courts were responsible for determining whether they were acting unlawfully, not being medical practitioners as defined under the Act. The courts found that the Act was intended to provide for safe abortions and that nurses could carry out such abortions.\n\nGenerally, prima facie must be given as a general rule of statutory interpretation. If the words are clear and free from ambiguity there is no need to refer to other means of interpretation. However, if the words in the statute are vague and ambiguous, then internal aid may be consulted for interpretation. This means the statute should be read in whole, what is not clear in one section may be explained in another section.\n\nInternal aids include the following:\n\nAids that are external to a statute (i.e., not part of an act) can also be used as recourse.\n\nExternal aids include the following:\n\nThe Acts Interpretation Act 1901 of Australia states that the interpretation that best achieves the purpose or object of the act is to be preferred to all other interpretations. When determining the purpose of a statutory provision courts ought to keep in mind the contexts for the provision at the outset rather than only when ambiguity or inconsistency exists. The statutory context 1) explanatory memoranda that are relevant to the statute and 2) reports of advisory bodies, such as law commissions, that created the need for the particular statutory provisions. (See CIC Insurance Limited v Bankstown Football Club Limited(1997) 187 CLR 384 at 408; also see Acts Interpretation Act 1901 (Cth), s15AB.)\n\nWhereas other commonwealth countries embraced purposivism much earlier, the High Court of Australia has only been receptive to purposivism since the 1970s. Historically, Australian legalism (a variant of originalism) persevered for many years following the landmark decision in the Engineers Case. Sometimes considered aggressively textualist, Australian legalism emphasizes the importance of and attends only to the words in the statute when determining meaning.\n\nThe Court remains entrenched in the tradition of textualism and original meaning more than the typical European, Canadian or even American jurist however, Justice McHugh refers to Australian legalism as \"faint-hearted\", as the Court's focus on textualism does not preclude its ability to evaluate extrinsic evidence. The move away from staunch textualism is largely attributed to the \"revolution\" of the Mason Court.\n\nThe Mason Court's utilization of legislative debates marks the departure from strict Australian legalism. Along with the other radical innovations of the Mason Court, the use of extraneous materials has resulted in considerable tension between the textualist history and the purposive future. While there has been some retrogressive action since the Mason Court, Australian constitutional interpretation is now arguably pluralistic, similar to that of the United States.\n\nAccording to Australian jurist Jeffrey Goldsworthy the Mason Court's \"revolutionary\" attitude is partially attributed to Mason, Deane and Gaudron all receiving their education from the University of Sydney where they were exposed to \"more pragmatic, consequentialist legal theories than many of their predecessors\".\n\nIn Canada, the purposive approach was developed and expanded by Elmer Driedger in his 1974 book, \"The Construction of Statutes\". Driedger referred to this approach not as \"purposive\", but as \"the modern principle\" of statutory interpretation.\n\nThis approach has since been endorsed by the Supreme Court of Canada in a number of cases, and is now the dominant approach to statutory interpretation.\n\nIn \"Re Rizzo & Rizzo Shoes Ltd\", [1998] Justice Iacobucci, speaking for the whole court, wrote the following:\n\nJustice Iacobucci went on to cite section 10 of Ontario's quasi-constitutional \"Interpretation Act\", which stated, \"Every Act shall be deemed to be remedial ... and shall accordingly receive such fair, large and liberal construction and interpretation as will best ensure the attainment of the object of the Act according to its true intent, meaning and spirit.\" Similar provisions exist in the \"Interpretation Act\" of each province of Canada as well as at the federal level.\n\nThe purposive approach was reinforced in \"Bell ExpressVu Limited Partnership v. Rex\", [2002] , where Justice Iacobucci, again for the whole court, reiterated that Driedger's rule is the overarching approach to statutory interpretation in Canada. Other philosophies, such as a strict interpretation of penal statutes, may apply in the case of an ambiguity, but only in the case of an ambiguity that arises \"following\" the application of the modern rule.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruling in \"Free World Trust v. Électro Santé Inc.\" [2000] set out \"the test for patent infringement\" and \"the principles of purposive claim construction\".\n\nPurposive interpretation is also used in constitutional interpretation. In \"R. v. Big M Drug Mart Ltd.\", [1985], Justice Dickson, speaking for the majority of the court, wrote, at paragraph 116:\n\nIsrael's legal community is largely purposivist in nature and has rejected such methods of interpretation as narrow textualism and static historicism. The term \"purposive interpretation\" began to appear in Israel at the end of the 1960s and beginning of the 1970s.\n\nAharon Barak is Israel's best-known champion of purposivism. His particular form of puposivism includes a synthesis of subjective elements, such as author's intent, with objective elements, such as textual evidence. Barak believes the text to be the source of purpose but is ready to go beyond the text in some circumstances to examine the subjective purposes of the text's author. Barak believes intentionalism is too limited in its assessment of subjectivity.\n\n\"On a number of occasions, Justice Barak of the Israeli Supreme Court has remarked that, in the enactment of its new Basic Laws on human rights, Israel walks in the path of the Canadian Charter of RIghts and Freedoms\". Barak has encouraged Israel's judiciary to make reference to the Canadian Supreme Court's purposive approach to Charter rights and its rights-forwarding orientation. Barak has not only written in support of purposive interpretation but also applied it while serving as a Justice to the Supreme Court of Israel. In CA 165/82 \"Kibbutz Hatzor v Assessing Officer\", 39(2) P.D 70, his judgment was seen as a turning point in the interpretation of tax law in Israel, establishing that a purposive approach was generally preferred to textualism in determining the meaning of the law.\n\nSection 5(1) of the \"Interpretation Act 1999\" states that Acts are to be interpreted according to their purpose.\n\nA 1969 report of the English Law Commission proposed for the English courts to adopt the purposive approach. That prestigious endorsement did much to boost the profile and credibility of the approach, but several decades would still pass before purposivism would win acceptance outside of narrow fact patterns (such as estoppels and absurdities) in the English courts, exceptions enshrined by cases such as the Earl of Oxford's case (1615).\n\nThe leading case in which purposivism was definitively accepted by the House of Lords was \"Pepper v Hart\" [1993] AC 593. The case established the principle that when primary legislation is ambiguous and certain criteria are satisfied, courts may refer to statements made in the House of Commons or the House of Lords in an attempt to interpret the meaning of the legislation. Before the ruling, such an action would have been seen as a breach of parliamentary privilege. The House of Lords held that courts could now take a purposive approach to interpreting legislation when the traditional methods of statutory construction are in doubt or result in an absurdity.\n\nTo find what Parliament intended, all sources including Hansard may be consulted. Lord Griffiths stated:\n\nAmerican jurist Henry M. Hart, Jr., and Albert Sacks, are considered early proponents of American purposivism. Their work helped to promote purposivism as a credible method of interpretation. Purposivism in the United States is considered a strain of originalism, alongside textualism and intentionalism. While the current focus of the interpretation debate is between textualism and intentionalism, the less popular purposivism is gaining favour. Purposivism in the United States is used to interpret a statute with broadly worded text and a seemingly clear purpose. When employing purposivism, the court is concerned with understanding the purpose or \"spirit\" of the law. Once the purpose is identified, the text is then read accordingly. In order to determine and interpret the purpose of a statute, courts may consult extraneous aids.\n\nThe following extraneous aids have been ranked from least authoritative to most authoritative: subsequent history, nonlegislator proponents of drafters, rejected proposals, colloquy on floor & hearing, sponsor statements and committee reports. Each of these extraneous aids are given a corresponding weight to their position in the hierarchical ranking.\n\nThe academic literature indicates several variations of purposivism. For example Abbe Gluck said “There are different stripes of purposivists...” Jennifer M. Bandy stated, “Thus, Justice Breyer’s strain of purposivism focuses on understanding the law in relation to both the people who passed it and the people who must live with it.\" Degrees of purposivism are sometimes referred to as ‘strong’ or ‘weak’.\n\nAs the Court's leading purposivist Justice Stephen Breyer considers determining and interpreting the purpose of a statute paramount. An apt example of Breyer's approach might be his dissent in \"Medellín v. Texas\" (2008), where he faulted the court's construction of a treaty because \"it looks for the wrong thing (explicit textual expression about self-execution) using the wrong standard (clarity) in the wrong place (the treaty language)\"; in response, the Court \"confess[ed] that we do think it rather important to look to the treaty language to see what it has to say about the issue. That is after all what the Senate looks to in deciding whether to approve the treaty\".\n\nAs opposed to Justice Breyer’s strong form of purposivism, \"weak purposivists\" might consult the statute's purpose only as a device for interpreting vague provisions of its text, and in no circumstances to override the text.\n"}
{"id": "6608272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6608272", "title": "Remittitur", "text": "Remittitur\n\nA remittitur is a ruling by a judge (usually upon motion to reduce or throw out a jury verdict) lowering the amount of damages granted by a jury in a civil case. Usually, this is because the amount awarded exceeded the amount demanded. The term is sometimes used for a reduction in awarded damages even when the amount awarded did not exceed the amount demanded, but is otherwise considered excessive. An example of the latter is the high-profile file-sharing court case \"Capitol v. Thomas\".\n\nIf the motion is granted, the plaintiff may either accept the reduced verdict or submit to a new trial restricted to the matter of damages.\n\nThe term is also sometimes used in place of \"remand\" or a mandate—that is, moving a case from a higher court to a lower court. Notably, under California law, the Court of Appeal issues a remittitur after an appeal is heard and decided. In contrast, the U.S. federal Courts of Appeals issue a mandate.\n\n"}
{"id": "590522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590522", "title": "Revolutionary Command Council (Iraq)", "text": "Revolutionary Command Council (Iraq)\n\nThe Iraqi Revolutionary Command Council was established after the military coup in 1968, and was the ultimate decision making body in Iraq before the 2003 American-led invasion. It exercised both executive and legislative authority in the country, with the Chairman and Vice Chairman chosen by a two-thirds majority of the council. The Chairman was also then declared the President of Iraq and he was then allowed to select a Vice President. After Saddam Hussein became President of Iraq in 1979 the council was led by deputy chairman Izzat Ibrahim ad-Douri, deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz, and Taha Yassin Ramadan, who had known Saddam since the 1960s. The legislature was composed of the RCC, the National Assembly and a 50-member Kurdish Legislative Council which governed the country. During his presidency, Saddam Hussein was Chairman of the RCC and President of the Republic. Other members of the RCC included Amira Alawad who was the the head of schooling in Karbala.Salah Omar Al-Ali who held the position between 1968 and 1970, one of Saddam's half-brothers, Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti, Taha Yasin Ramadan, Adnan Khairallah, Sa'adoun Shaker Mahmoud, Tariq Aziz Isa, Hasan Ali Nassar al-Namiri, Naim Hamid Haddad and Taha Mohieddin Maruf. It was officially dissolved on 23 May 2003 by Paul Bremer per Order Number 2 of the Coalition Provisional Authority.\n\nThe Iraqi Revolutionary Command Council (RCC) was established as the de facto ruling power in Iraq after the military coup of 1968. However its foundation materialized much earlier. The Revolution of 1958 mobilized a small group of young military officers known as the Free Officers. The Free Officers, headed by 'Abd al-Karim Qasim, agreed that Iraq should become a republic and that army officers should occupy all senior posts in the administration in hopes of keeping civilians subordinate to the officers. As Charles R. H. Tripp explains \"the officers' power would be institutionalized in a Revolutionary Command Council, formed from the membership of the Supreme Committee [an organization of eleven ranking officers who helped plan the coup], and this body would wield supreme executive power in the wake of the overthrow of the monarchy.\" The capture of power by the military in 1958 greatly altered the political landscape in Iraq’s government as military officers gained massive control over civilian and governmental affairs. 'Abd al-Karim Qasim formed a popular government that consolidated its power and redirected oil revenues. However, Qasim was overthrown in 1963 as the Ba’ath Party attempted to gain control. The Ba’thist contingent formed the National Council of the Revolutionary Command which exercised supreme power replacing the RCC. This regimes power was short-lived as new Ba’thists regained the upper hand and brothers Abd al-Salam ‘Arif and ‘Abd al-Rahman ruled Iraq for the next five years.\n\nThe coup in 1968 led to the rise of the Ba’ath Party as it regained control. The coup in 1968 led to the establishment of the Iraqi Revolutionary Command Council which became the ultimate decision-making body in Iraq during the Ba’ath’s rule from 1968 to 2003. Accordingly \"under a provisional constitution adopted by the party in 1970, Iraq was confirmed as a republic, with legislative power theoretically vested in an elected legislature but also in the party-run RCC, without whose approval no law could be promulgated.\" Furthermore, \"second to the council in political importance was the Regional Command of the Baath, the party executive, and third was the Council of Ministers.\" The legislature also included the National Assembly and a 50-member Kurdish Legislative Council.\n\nThe RCC was composed of a selective group of legislative leaders. The Ba’ath Party supported the RCC but it was not completely Ba’ath led. Under the Provisional Constitution, “article 43 assigns to the RCC, by a vote of two-thirds of its members, authority to promulgate laws and regulations, to deal with national security, to declare war and conclude peace, and to approve the government's budget. Article 38 stipulates that all newly elected members of the RCC must be members of the Baath Party Regional Command. The Constitution also provides for an appointed Council of Ministers that has responsibility for carrying out the executive decisions of the RCC.\n\n\"The chief executive of the RCC is the president, who serves as the commander in chief of the armed forces and as the head of both the government and the state.\" Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr became president, prime minister, chairman of the RCC and secretary-general of the Ba’ath Party, all these positions gave Bakr immense powers of patronage at his disposal. Al-Bakr maintained power until 1979 and then Saddam Hussein became the president of Iraq.\n\nAhmed Hassan al-Bakr, President and Prime Minister of Iraq from 1968 to 1979, also held the position of Chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council. Al-Bakr's role as Chairman of the RCC strengthened and maintained his power and control of the decision making process. Hassan al-Bakr’s involvement in the RCC led to legislation that greatly reinforced the power of the Ba’ath party as he created a strong Ba’ath base \n\nCharles Tripp makes the point that \"in 1969, Saddam Hussein was appointed Vice-Chairman of the RCC, arguably the second most powerful office in the state.\" Al-Bakr and Hussein’s political positions helped them consolidate their power and control. The RCC was mostly composed of Ba’ath leaders and their control limited the input from other groups. However, Shi‘i Iraqis were later accepted into the RCC to help appease the unrest among the Shi‘a in the 1970s. Many scholars argue that the powerful positions held by al-Bakr and Hussein in the RCC reinforced their supreme control of the Iraqi government. Hussein promoted an agenda of modernization as vice chairman of the RCC that included literacy and education. \n\nIn 1979 Saddam Hussein became President of Iraq and Chairman of RCC, with deputy chairman Izzat Ibrahim ad-Douri, and deputy Prime Ministers Tariq Aziz and Taha Yassin Ramadan. Izzat Ibrahim ad-Douri played an important role in leading the RCC during Saddam Hussein's administration. The council was led by the deputy chairman, ad-Douri. Through their leadership positions in the council, the deputy chairman and deputy prime minister worked on behalf of Saddam Hussein in the RCC to advance the Ba’ath Party’s interests. The RCC was the supreme policy making force in Iraq until the American-led invasion in 2003 dissolved the council and replaced it with Coalition Provisional Authority. The power of the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) was transferred to newly appointed Iraqi Interim Government in 2004 and the CPA was dissolved in 2008.\n\nThere is a debate among scholars regarding the true power of Hassan al-Bakr and Saddam Hussein in their relation to the Revolutionary Command Council. Some scholars argue that early on the RCC \"functioned as a genuine collective decision-making body, and was often the arena for heated debates.\" Many argue it was Saddam Hussein who greatly changed and controlled the RCC by eliminating any manifestations of pluralism. The government under Hussein was often seen as a brutal dictatorship. In 1979, Hussein “accused dozens of party officers and party officials, including five of the RCC’s twenty-two members, of taking part in a Syrian plot against the regime. The accused were put on trial and sent to death. Hussein’s actions at the beginning of his presidency greatly limited the plurality in the RCC with his accusations against the Syrian plot “conspirators.” This action consolidated his power in the RCC.\n\nThe Revolutionary Command Council passed a multitude of controversial legislation that advanced only the interests of the Ba’ath Party in Iraq. For example, \"Article 200, and the Penal Code of 1969 and its various amendments, provide the death penalty for anyone joining the Ba’ath Party while concealing any previous political affiliation, or who resigns from it to join another party.\"\n\nDuring the Iraq-Iran War, Saddam Hussein used the Revolutionary Command Council as his personal headquarters; Hussein maintained tight control of war operations. Saddam Hussein’s tight control limited the power of field commanders and this resulted in an intense conflict between the highest command and the commanders fighting the war. The military showed signs of discontent in 1982, and Hussein responded by executing some three hundred high-ranking officers.\n\nSubsequently, in the 1990s, \"reports in the BMJ drew attention to a series of decrees of the RCC introducing amputation of the right hand as judicial punishment for theft, with amputation of the left foot for a second offence, amputation of one ear for evasion of the draft, military desertion, or harbouring deserters.\" Amnesty International received reports that confirmed the governmental judicial acts of amputation. After the Gulf War, the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) was created to ensure Iraq’s compliance with policies regarding the production of WMDs. The commission conducted weapons inspections in Iraq. The U.S. used Iraq's failure to comply with weapons inspections to prompt the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. In the end, Hussein's regime as the U.S. invaded and captured Saddam.\n\nMany scholars such Charles Tripp argue that Saddam Hussein’s complete control of both the executive and legislative components of the government led to the rise of a brutal dictatorship that crushed any forms of opposition. Hussein used his vast powers to strengthen the Ba’ath Party and his control. Groups in opposition to the Ba’ath Party increasingly became disconnected from the political process and victimized for their differences.\n"}
{"id": "40061732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40061732", "title": "Seana Shiffrin", "text": "Seana Shiffrin\n\nSeana Valentine Shiffrin is Professor of Philosophy and Pete Kameron Professor of Law and Social Justice at the University of California, Los Angeles. Shiffrin's work has been widely influential and spans issues in moral, political and legal philosophy, as well as matters of legal doctrine, that concern equality, autonomy and the social conditions for their realization. Shiffrin's recent work has primarily focused on freedom of speech, truth-telling, promising, and the place of the law in building moral character. She is an associate editor of \"Philosophy and Public Affairs\". and was elected a Fellow of the American Academic of Arts and Sciences in 2010.\n\nShiffrin received her B.A. in philosophy from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1988, winning the University Medal. As a Marshall Scholar, she went on to obtain a B.Phil., with distinction, from University College, Oxford, in 1990, a D.Phil in philosophy at Oxford University in 1993 under the supervision of Gerald A. Cohen, and a J.D. magna cum laude from Harvard Law School in 1996.\n\nShe is winner of the Fred Berger Memorial Prize in Philosophy of Law in 2002 for her widely cited article, \"Paternalism, Unconscionability, and Accommodation\". She was also the Hempel Lecturer at Princeton University in 2012.\n\nHer first book, \"Speech Matters: On Morality, Lying and the Law,\" appeared in 2014 from Princeton University Press.\n\nShiffrin argues that although liberalism may preclude legal enforcement of morality for its own sake, the law cannot be indifferent to morality but must promote the social conditions of fostering and sustaining moral agency and moral deliberation. A connected theme she emphasizes is the role of equality and equal social relationships in rendering individual autonomy possible and meaningful. She has pursued these themes predominately through her non-conventionalist account of promising, her controversial argument that contract law should be more sensitive to its relationship to the moral practice of promising, her critique of luck-egalitarian conceptions of egalitarianism as incompatible with liberal freedoms that require accommodation practices, and also through the development of her thinker-based theory of freedom of speech. She is also cited for her critique of Lockean arguments for intellectual property, for her efforts to develop a non-comparative alternative theory of harm, and for her argument that the federal law authorizing exploitative penalty fees for minor breaches of credit card contracts violates constitutional due process guarantees against disproportionate punitive damages.\n\n"}
{"id": "44585779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44585779", "title": "Small Business Health Care tax credit", "text": "Small Business Health Care tax credit\n\nThe Small Business Health Care tax credit is available to small employers who pay health insurance premiums on behalf of employees enrolled in a qualified health plan offered through a Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) Marketplace. Employers who purchase health insurance through the program may get a tax credit of up to 50% of their premium contributions. However, to qualify for the tax credit, they must meet certain standards. Firstly, employers have fewer than 25 employees. Secondly, their employee salary must be less than an average of $50,000. Thirdly, employer must pay at least 50% of the full-time employee's premium costs. However, employers are not required to offer coverage to part-time employees (work fewer than 30 works/week) or dependents, or to seasonal workers who aren't considered full-time employees unless they work more than 120 days during the tax year. Lastly, the coverage to those full-employment must be offered through SHOP Marketplace. \n\nEmployers should apply to receive this tax credit on the annual business tax return The tax credit is highest in particularly for small companies with fewer than 10 employees, with an average annual salary of $25,000 or less. \n\nFor instance, if there are 10 employees with total wage of $250,000, employer will receive a tax credit amount of $35,000 as they contribute at least $70,000 to their premiums. \n"}
{"id": "18268322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18268322", "title": "Trade Union Act 1984", "text": "Trade Union Act 1984\n\nThe Trade Union Act 1984 was a law in the United Kingdom that required all trade unions to hold a secret ballot before calling a strike. The majority of the act did not apply to trade unions based in Northern Ireland. The act was repealed on 16 October 1992. Sir Peter Bottomley, who is the current MP for Worthing West, reportedly said that the act was \"designed to ensure that trade unions are more democratic and their leaders more accountable to their members.\" \n\nThe act also required unions to elect a new general secretary every five years and to validate funds every ten years.\n\nKenneth Clarke, who is a politician for the Conservative Party (UK) reported that, at a point approximately two years after the passing of the bill, 19 unions changed the practice to comply with the act. The act also says that those who are in high up positions in the union must \"be accountable to the membership [of the union] as a whole.\n\nAt the time the act was passed, the UK miner's strike had just started and, as a result, the government passed acts like this to limit the effect caused by strikes by this. Some people have said that the law was passed after the start of the Falkland's war due to the increase in popularity for the government brought on by the conflict.\n\nThe act limited the amount of industrial action by strengthening the requirements for a strike to be considered lawful. It also allowed the legality of the miners' strike to be questioned, as members of the National Union of Mineworkers were not given the chance to vote on this issue.\n\nAs a result of this act, striking miners were not entitled to state benefits, thus forcing the majority of miners and their families to survive the strike on handouts, donations from the European \"food mountain\" and other charities. Being without benefits had more serious consequences for the miners and their families. Their children were not entitled to free school meals or social security help with school uniforms. Poverty and hunger became rife in the mining heartlands. This forced many miners into a dilemma: return to work, and be viewed as a \"scab\"; or maintain support and live primarily on donations, which is what the majority did.\n\nPart of the 'effect' section is copied from UK miners' strike (1984–1985)\n\n"}
{"id": "27035637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27035637", "title": "Treatise on the Law of the Prerogatives of the Crown", "text": "Treatise on the Law of the Prerogatives of the Crown\n\nA Treatise on the Law of the Prerogatives of the Crown (full title: \"A Treatise on the Law of the Prerogatives of the Crown; and the Relative Duties and Rights of the Subject\") is an 1820 legal text by Joseph Chitty. The text provides the most comprehensive list of royal prerogative powers in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "31820607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31820607", "title": "U.S.–Canada Air Quality Agreement", "text": "U.S.–Canada Air Quality Agreement\n\nThe Air Quality Agreement is an environmental treaty between Canada and the United States. It was signed on by Canadian prime minister Brian Mulroney and American President George H. W. Bush and entered into force immediately. It was popularly referred to during its negotiations as the \"Acid Rain Treaty\", especially in Canada. Negotiations began in 1986 when Mulroney first discussed the issue with then-president Reagan. Mulroney repeatedly pressed the issue in public meetings with Reagan in 1987 and 1988\n"}
{"id": "231384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231384", "title": "Vacated judgment", "text": "Vacated judgment\n\nA vacated judgment makes a previous legal judgment legally void. A vacated judgment is usually the result of the judgment of an appellate court, which overturns, reverses, or sets aside the judgment of a lower court. An appellate court may also vacate its own decisions.\n\nA trial court may have the power under certain circumstances, usually involving fraud or lack of jurisdiction over the parties to a case, to vacate its own judgments.\n\nA vacated judgment may free the parties to civil litigation to re-litigate the issues subject to the vacated judgment.\n\nAnother means of having a vacated judgment would be if the defendant dies prior to all appeals being exhausted. Notable defendants having their convictions vacated under this include Kenneth Lay (the former Chairman/CEO of Enron who died before sentencing) and Aaron Hernandez (the former football player who committed suicide in jail before his appeals were exhausted).\n\n\"Relief from judgment\" of a United States District Court is governed by Rule 60 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit noted that a vacated judgment \"place[s] the parties in the position of no trial having taken place at all; thus a vacated judgment is of no further force or effect.\"\nOne form of a vacatur in the United States legal system was established by \"United States v. Munsingwear, Inc.\" , otherwise known as the \"Munsingwear\" vacatur. This approach is used when while a case is being held on appeal, whether at the Circuit Court or Supreme Court level, underlying factors make the case moot, then the higher court will vacate the lower court's ruling, send the case back to the lower court, and have them render the case moot. Certain conditions must be met before the higher court can give a \"Munsingwear\" vacatur, generally allowing this vacatur to be used in three situations: in the matter of \"happenstance\" (such as the death of a litigant), through a settlement of the parties, or a unilateral action by the prevailing party from the lower court.\n\n"}
{"id": "52049458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52049458", "title": "VidAngel", "text": "VidAngel\n\nVidAngel is an American streaming video company that allows the user to skip distasteful content based on user preferences regarding profanity, nudity, sexual situations, and graphic violence.\n\nSeveral big movie studios sued the company in 2016, claiming it broke copyright law by evading DVD copyright protection features and streaming altered videos without permission. In late 2016, the company was told to shut down its website until the trial. The company vowed to appeal, releasing a subscription-based app on Amazon Fire TV, Roku, Android TV, and Apple TV, for filtering Netflix, Amazon Prime, and HBO videos on June 13, 2017.\n\nThe company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in October 2017.\n\nVidAngel was founded in 2013 and launched in 2014 in Provo, Utah as a startup company with six employees. In March 2014, the company said it had moved its headquarters to Silicon Valley, California.\n\nOn August 11, 2016, during a legal deposition, Neal Harmon, VidAngel's CEO, said that VidAngel illegally ripped DVDs using the software program AnyDVD HD.\n\nIn December 2016, VidAngel began a Regulation A+ securities offering (mini initial public offering) to get $5 million in investments. It met its goal after 28 hours and had over $10 million after five days. They assigned 42% of the $10 million to advertising and 26% to legal costs. Harmon Brothers, owned by VidAngel founders and officers Neal Harmon and Jeffery Harmon, will make the advertisements.\n\nIn December 2016, VidAngel was ordered to shut down its website until the trial. Neal Harmon replied that VidAngel would open a studio in 2017 to make \"family friendly\" content.\n\nIn June 2017, shortly after the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals denied their request to lift the injunction, VidAngel announced a new streaming service for $7.99 per month (currently to filter content on Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, and HBO. Only titles from studios not included in the lawsuit are available. In a June 2017 statement, Netflix noted: \"We have not endorsed or approved the VidAngel technology\".\n\nAlso in June 2017, VidAngel general council David Quinto made an unexpected admission that his client does indeed make master copies of Amazon content as VidAngel is incapable of posting any content on their site without an illegal master copy, as outlined in an article from Eriq Gardner (The Hollywood Reporter) who quoted the studios \"[I]t appears from Mr. Quinto’s declaration that VidAngel itself is streaming from its own 'master' copies of works that VidAngel has created on its own servers rather than layering its filters over an authorized stream from the licensed streaming services,\" writes Glenn Pomerantz, attorney for the studios. \"In other words, VidAngel indisputably itself is publicly performing works to its users.\"\n\nVidAngel allows users to personally select filters for moments that the user deems objectionable. Content, such as nudity, profanity, and graphic violence in commercial content, are skippable on the current VidAngel platform. The customer must purchase the content from select streaming services, that can be connected to VidAngel. When the user purchases the content they obtain the right to apply filters to objectionable content in their home.\n\nVidAngel cites the Family Movie Act of 2005 (FMA) as legally protecting customers' right to use their service to filter films. They say that under the FMA, they are allowed to stream filtered movies to customers as long as the movie is an authorized copy watched in the privacy of the home. As noted below, all these arguments have been rejected by the courts due to VidAngel's own legal counsel admitting that where they do not have agreements with Netflix and Amazon to use their movies and TV shows. In fact, VidAngel is not using authorized copies of any Netflix and Amazon content, but have to resort to making illegal master copies of all content from Netflix and Amazon in order to offer their current streaming service.\n\nAccording to VidAngel, after they took their (DVD and Blu-ray based) movie-selling live for illegal public consumption -- without legal approval from any Hollywood movie studio -- they tried three different arrangements to legally sell movies in partnership with studios: teaming with Google to add filters to licensed films available on Google Play; buy a licensed movie on YouTube then apply filters to it; and buying discs directly from the studios. The studios rejected all three proposals, so VidAngel bought licensed discs from retail stores, made illegal master copies where they broke the anti-copying software on every DVD and Blu-ray disc they purchased and put their master copy of each movie on their website without studio-permission to use those movies.\n\nOn June 12, 2016, production companies such as Lucasfilm, 20th Century Fox, Disney Enterprises, Inc., and Warner Bros. filed a federal lawsuit against VidAngel for circumventing copyright protection on DVDs and for unlicensed video streaming, accusing them of violating the DMCA. The case, \"Disney Enterprises, Inc. et al v. VidAngel, Inc.\", was filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. VidAngel's defense is that members actually own a digital copy of the film when they stream it for $20 and VidAngel will buy it back for $19 and have a right to filter content under the Family Home Movie Act of 2005. VidAngel has filed a counterclaim against the companies alleging violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act and the preliminary hearing was held on November 14, 2016.\n\nIn the lawsuit VidAngel is being represented by a group of lawyers led by Peter Stris of Stris & Maher, a small but influential firm known for handling complex cases and arguments at the Supreme Court. Disney is being represented by a group of lawyers led by former Solicitor General Donald Verrilli.\n\nJudge Andre Birotte Jr., in a ruling on December 12, 2016, granted Disney's motion for a preliminary injunction, declaring that VidAngel had violated copyright laws by circumventing copyright protection technology on DVDs and by hosting the streamed content on VidAngel's computer servers without appropriate licensing and permission from copyright holders. The court also rejected VidAngel's Fair Use defense, noting as paraphrased in media about the case, \"VidAngel does not add anything and the result has essentially the same entertainment value as the original, thus the fair use defense is unlikely to win out.\"\n\nJudge Birotte's order blocked VidAngel from circumventing copyright protection features on DVDs and also ordered them to stop streaming movies, stating that the Family Movie Act requires that the filtered content comes from an \"authorized copy\" of the film, and the digital content VidAngel streamed was not an authorized copy. Shortly thereafter, VidAngel requested a stay of the preliminary injunction, claiming the company would suffer irreparable legal harm from not being able to operate while the case makes its way through the courts. VidAngel has vowed to fight the case all the way to the United States Supreme Court. VidAngel announced intentions to obey the court's order to stop streaming effective December 30, 2016. However, in January 2017, VidAngel was found in contempt of court for continuing to add titles in violation of the court's order. For this infraction, they were fined $10,231.20 in legal costs incurred by Disney et al. After this ruling, Johnathan Bailey of \"Plagiarism Today\" wrote that VidAngel's public statements have consistently misrepresented the core legal issues in the case by characterizing the major film studios as opposed primarily to filtering adult content: \"[T]he studios have repeatedly made it clear that the filtering is not the issue, its the unauthorized streaming and copy protection circumvention, nothing more.\"\n\nVidAngel appealed the case to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. A hearing occurred June 8, 2017, where VidAngel requested an emergency stay of the injunction. VidAngel's request was denied and the injunction was upheld.\n\nVidAngel requested an appeal or clarification of the injunction, specifically whether their new streaming-filter service was a violation of the injunction. Disney et al. responded with a request for an \"ex parte\" ruling, arguing that VidAngel violated procedural rules by not notifying Disney of their intentions of filing such an appeal or clarification. On August 2, 2017, Judge Birotte rejected VidAngel's request for appeal or clarification of the injunction.\n\nOn August 24, 2017 the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the injunction against VidAngel, quoting a statement from U.S. Senator Orrin Hatch that the Family Movie Act is not a defense for violation of copy protection measures or for violation of copyright law, and to suggest otherwise is \"counter to legislative intent\" of the Family Movie Act.\n\nIn September 2017, VidAngel filed its own lawsuit in a Utah federal court against affiliates of the studios, including Marvel Comics, Fox Broadcasting Company, Castle Rock Entertainment, MGM Studios, and others, seeking a declaratory judgment that its new streaming model is legal. After VidAngel reportedly decided to drop the case, U.S. District Court Judge David Nuffer dismissed this lawsuit on August 7, 2018.\n\nIn October 2017, VidAngel filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as a legal strategy to protect the company against the ongoing lawsuit and allow it to reorganize its business around its new streaming service in an effort to ensure that they could avoid the courts from declaring how much VidAngel owed the studios in copyright infringment fines for as long as possible. VidAngel estimated between $1 million and $10 million in liabilities, and approximately equal amounts of assets. The filing forces a pause on the lawsuit, but allows business to continue as usual. A statement on the company's blog announced: \"VidAngel is not going away\", that the company has \"millions of dollars in the bank, and now generating millions in revenue,\" and stated its goal was \"to reorganize the business around our new streaming model\" to stay in business and pay damages when they finally lose the pending trial. The plaintiffs in the lawsuit characterized the bankruptcy as a delay tactic, noting that prior rulings indicate VidAngel would indefinitely lose in court. An article in Utah's \"Deseret News (\"https://www.deseretnews.com/article/900002739/vidangel-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-from-its-own-customers.html) further notes that the bankruptcy has provoked ire among some customers whose buy-back credits for DVD purchases are included in the bankruptcy among VidAngel's assets, preventing customers from cashing out these refunds while the bankruptcy is pending.\n\n"}
