{"id": "49616105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49616105", "title": "American Baptist Churches v. Thornburgh (ABC) Settlement Agreement", "text": "American Baptist Churches v. Thornburgh (ABC) Settlement Agreement\n\nAmerican Baptist Churches v. Thornburgh 760 F. Supp. 796 (N.D. Cal. 1991), formerly \"American Baptist Churches v Meese\", is a settlement reached on January 31, 1991 that resulted from a class action lawsuit against the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), and the Department of State. (DOS). The suit was filed in 1985 by a coalition of religious organizations, refugee legal assistance organizations, and numerous human rights organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), the Center for Constitutional Rights (CCR), and the National Lawyers Guild.(NLG) Although the case originally stated two different groups of plaintiffs, various religious organizations involved in the Sanctuary movement and Central American refugees, after changes were made to criminal laws formerly used to prosecute these religious organizations, the focus of the suit was centered more specifically to claims of discrimination against Central American refugees in asylum seeking processes. This, they argued, was in direct violation of the tenets of the Refugee Act of 1980, which sought to create uniform criteria by which to review cases in which individuals fleeing political persecution and humanitarian crises would become eligible for asylum. After five years, the settlement secured temporary protected status (TPS) for many Salvadoran and Guatemalan immigrants, providing them with among other things, de novo asylum interviews, stays from deportation and work authorization.\n\nIn 1985, when the suit was originally filed, there was and had been for some time, considerable violence in Central America. For both Guatemala and El Salvador, this meant two civil wars that together, reached an estimated 275,000 deaths; 200,000 in Guatemala, and 75,000 in El Salvador. Although this spanned thirty six years for Guatemala, with the beginning of the Guatemalan Civil War in 1960, the period of the greatest violence for Guatemala began in the 1980s, under the leadership of figures like Efrain Rios Montt. This period was also one of intense violence in El Salvador, with the Salvadoran Civil War officially beginning in 1980 and ending in 1992. Both countries, experiencing stark poverty and political repression, similarly experienced the use of militarily trained “death squads”, forced disappearances, the formation of guerrilla resistance movements, and massacres such as El Mozote in El Salvador and the genocide of indigenous Mayans in Guatemala. Under these conditions, there was a spike in migration from Central America to the United States, notably from El Salvador and Guatemala, which had not previously experienced large-scale migration to the United States.\n\nIt was in this context, coupled with the absence of protections afforded to refugees by asylum, that religious organizations began not only to provide services for migrants already living in the United States, but also, helping to transport refugees still in Central America to the United States through Mexico. Defending these actions by contending that the individuals they had assisted were indeed, refugees, albeit unlawfully denied those protections, some in the movement were nonetheless prosecuted for their actions by the INS. This would lead to the beginning of the settlement, with various religious, legal, and community activist, organizations filing against the INS for the violation of rights of the religious organizations and the migrants themselves.\n\nDespite the violence in Central America, there were not many approved cases for asylum in the United States for either Guatemalan or Salvadoran migrants. The INS Fiscal Year statistics for 1984 report for example, a 3 percent approval rate for Salvadoran migrants and a one percent of less approval rate for Guatemalan migrants the same year. This was in stark contrast to a much higher rates of around thirty percent or higher. This would become a particularly important issue in the suit, addressing among other issues, what they believed was a systemic discrimination against Central American applicants.\n\nDirectly related to the issue of discrimination was the recent passage of the Refugee Act of 1980, an amendment to the Immigration and Nationality Act and the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act that was introduced to the Senate by Senator Ted Kennedy and signed by President Jimmy Carter. Among other goals, the stated purpose of the amendment was to address the needs of people who had faced persecution in their origin countries, and to provide them with assistance and opportunities to facilitate resettlement when needed and possible. In doing so, there was a great focus on humanitarian efforts to absorb refugees already present in the United States, whereas much of the focus before hand had been with concentrating refugee policy outside of the United States. Building on this precedent, and in some ways, testing its strength, the settlement would use the arguments made in the Refugee Act to argue that the INS had violated the goals of providing vulnerable communities that fit the definition of refugee with the protections of asylum.\n\nWithin the issue of low rates of granted asylum was also recent history of abuses against Salvadoran migrants by INS, as addressed in the case of \"Orantes-Hernandez v Smith\". Among these abuses was the detention of Salvadoran migrants without informing them of their rights to apply for asylum, as well as pressuring them to sign papers for their voluntary departure, many times when the migrants did not understand what they were signing. Other instances also involved excessive force, providing false information, and threatening detainees who refused to sign with punishment. This became important evidence to the arguments of discrimination, strengthening the case of the plaintiffs against the existing failures of INS.\n\nAfter five years, a settlement was finally reached between the plaintiffs and for the most part, INS. Reasons for this were likely that litigation over the five years had been very expensive and that continuing on to a trial would have been even more expensive. The plaintiffs had also collected a substantial amount of evidence, and had what seemed to a very strong case against INS. Ultimately, the plaintiffs were able to secure \"de novo\" adjudication for many Guatemalan and Salvadoran migrants, who while they waited for new interviews, were also granted a stay from deportation and work authorization. Those who did not meet the period of arrival or had committed an aggravated felony however, were barred from receiving asylum and settlement benefits.\n\nGuatemalan Migrants\nSalvadoran Migrants\n\nPrevious decisions made about migrants who were eligible for the agreement benefits were disregarded, and if a denial for asylum was recommended to the Bureau of Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs (BHRHA), INS would have to put forth specific reasons as to why.\n\nMost applicants would be protected from deportation with exception of individuals who had committed a crime of moral turpitude, which carried a sentence of at least 6 months, posed a national security risk, or was deemed a threat to public safety.\n\nAll applicants who met the requirements, as far as eligibility to receive settlement benefits, were eligible for work authorization as one of those benefits.\n"}
{"id": "39140131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39140131", "title": "April 2013 ricin letters", "text": "April 2013 ricin letters\n\nOn April 15, 2013, an envelope that preliminarily tested positive for ricin, a highly toxic protein, was intercepted at the US Capitol's off-site mail facility in Washington, D.C. According to reports, the envelope was addressed to the office of Mississippi Republican Senator Roger Wicker. On April 17, 2013, an envelope addressed to President of the United States Barack Obama preliminarily tested positive for ricin.\n\nBoth letters, which were mailed from Memphis, Tennessee, included the phrases \"No one wanted to listen to me before. There are still 'Missing Pieces.' Maybe I have your attention now even if that means someone must die. This must stop. To see a wrong and not expose it, is to become a silent partner to its continuance.\" and \"I am KC and I approve this message.\"\n\nA third letter mailed to a Mississippi judge, Lee County Justice Court Judge Sadie Holland, that was received and opened on April 10, contained similar language and was sent for testing. The letters tested positive for ricin during FBI testing.\n\nOn April 17, 2013, FBI agents detained a Corinth, Mississippi, man on suspicion of mailing the ricin-laced letters. All charges were dropped however, and he was released on April 23, 2013. Federal investigators reported that they could find no evidence linking him to the letters. An FBI agent testified that no ricin or precursors were found in the man's home, nor did a preliminary forensic analysis of his computer reveal anything related to ricin. The defense attorney claimed in court that his client was being framed, possibly by a man with whom he had been feuding online.\n\nOn April 23, agents in hazardous materials suits searched the home of a Tupelo, Mississippi man in connection with the ricin investigation. On April 27, the man, identified as James Everett Dutschke, was arrested in connection with the case. Dutschke was out on $25,000 bail for unrelated state criminal charges of April 1, 2013. Under suspicion since the release of the prior suspect, Dutschke denied the allegations through his lawyer. Saying that new information had been discovered in the case, authorities who had placed his house under surveillance arrested Dutschke in the early hours of April 27. Later that day, Dutschke was charged with attempted use of a biological weapon. On June 3, 2013, Dutschke was indicted by a federal grand jury on five counts. He was indicted for producing and using the deadly toxin as a weapon, and using the mail to threaten President Obama, Sen. Roger Wicker of Mississippi and Lee County Judge Sadie Holland.\n\nIn May 2014, Dutschke pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 25 years in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "5230166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5230166", "title": "Backstage pass", "text": "Backstage pass\n\nA backstage pass is an employee pass which allows its bearer access to employees-only areas at a performance venue. They are most commonly associated with rock music groups.\n\nSuch passes are usually a laminated paper worn on a lanyard, or on chain link or key chain holder at the belt, or a simpler \"stick-on\" applied to one's clothing. Plastic or paper wristbands may also be used. However, some elaborately designed backstage passes have been used by Bill Graham Productions/Winterland, Beaver Productions and many other regional and local promoters. To deter counterfeiting, passes often include holograms or color-shifting properties.\n\nAt any one concert or event there are about 200 to 400 backstage passes available. Again, mainly these are for the performers, stage crews, roadies, security guards,\nperformer's agents. Sometimes relatives or close friends of performers, stage crew, promoters, etc. \nwill get backstage passes to concerts. \n\nSome venues (including the House of Blues venues and Irving Plaza in New York) require their own passes to be worn, even by laminate holders for the tour. Large music festivals, such as Ozzfest and the Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival also usually issue their own passes.\n\nBackstage passes sometimes become memorabilia sold to die-hard fans, especially when the pass is signed by a performer.\n\nIn media, the term \"Backstage Pass\" may be used to signify the presence of expanded coverage of certain musical groups.\n\nThere are a number of different types of backstage passes:\n\n\nOtto Printing (in Kentucky) and PERRi Entertainment (in Reno, NV) helped establish the industry and were two of the largest manufactures and designers of passes up until 2003. When PERRi folded, the current leading printer of backstage passes emerged: ACCESS Event Solutions. Reno has become the largest source for backstage pass printing. Otto is still printing passes and is the oldest printer of backstage passes. While currently Reno and Otto Printing produce the largest amount of back stage passes, there are many companies looking to surpass them in it.\n\nThere are some ways to get backstage passes. One way is to get employed for the venue. \nSome backstage passes are given as prizes by official fan clubs. Sometimes local radio stations and/or local music shops will obtain one or a few from the concert promoters or their agents and will give away as a type of promotional prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "34071932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34071932", "title": "British Poultry Standard", "text": "British Poultry Standard\n\nThe British Poultry Standard is the oldest poultry fancy breed standard in the world. It is published by the Poultry Club of Great Britain and is the official reference standard used by judges at poultry shows within the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe standard was first published in 1865 by the original Poultry Club of Great Britain, a club which existed for only three years. It was entitled \"The standard of excellence in Exhibition Poultry\" and was edited by William Bernhardt Tegetmeier. It was the first publication of its kind. The compilation of the standard was then taken over by the second, current Poultry Club of Great Britain. The number of editions of the standard that have been published is uncertain, as each successive publisher that has been used by the Poultry Club of Great Britain has started again with a first edition. The current edition, published in 2008 by Blackwell, is the sixth in the current numbering.\n\nThe standard is the official reference for use by judges at poultry shows in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. It contains breed standards of more than 150 breeds of chickens, ducks, geese and turkeys; pigeons are not included.\n\nEditions of the standards include, but probably are not limited to, these:\n\n"}
{"id": "24135647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24135647", "title": "Christopher Hills", "text": "Christopher Hills\n\nChristopher Hills (April 9, 1926 – January 31, 1997) was an English-born author, philosopher, and scientist, popularly described as the \"Father of Spirulina\" for popularizing spirulina cyanobacteria as a food supplement. He also wrote 30 books on consciousness, meditation, yoga and spiritual evolution, divining, world government, aquaculture, and personal health.\n\nHills was variously headlined by the press as a \"Western Guru Scientist\", \"Natural Foods Pioneer\", \"Evolutionary Revolutionary\" and a \"Modern Merlin\".\n\nAs a successful commodities trader and art patron in Jamaica, he retired from business at an early age to follow a spiritual quest that took him around the world as a speaker, author, entrepreneur and pioneer of algae as one of the most efficient sources of food and fuel for humanity.\n\nBorn in Grimsby, England to a family of fishermen, Hills grew up sailing the bleak and turbulent North Sea. In 1940 he enrolled as a cadet in nautical school and joined the British Merchant Navy during World War II. At sea, Hills had several life and death experiences that formed his views on karma, divinity and destiny. On one occasion a rogue wave swept him off the deck hundreds of yards (metres) away from the vessel, but another wave picked him up and threw him back onto the ship, cutting open his forehead but saving him from freezing to death. As German U-boats sank 2,828 merchant ships, he watched tanker crew colleagues incinerated in the flaming oil-slicked Atlantic. At the end of the war, as navigating officer for an Esso oil tanker, Hills found himself docked in Curaçao, where he set up shop as a commodities trader with branch offices in Venezuela and Aruba.\n\nEncountering problems with South American contract law when a client reneged on a deal, Hills moved to Jamaica, where business was conducted under the British judicial system. There with the help of plantocrat philanthropist Percy Junor he founded commodity companies specializing in sugar, bananas, insurance, telegraph communications and agricultural spices pimento, nutmegs and ginger. Financing for the first export corporation came from British businessman Andrew Hay, then husband of best-selling motivational author Louise Hay who in the 1950s was a high-fashion model and Hills family friend.\n\nIn 1950 Christopher Hills married a young English woman, Norah Bremner, deputy headmistress of Wolmer's School in Kingston. Her father, Bernard E. Bremner B.E.M., was the Magistrate, Chief of Customs, and Mayor of King's Lynn, Norfolk who in 1951 co-founded the King's Lynn Festival with concert pianist Ruth Roche, Baroness Fermoy. Lady Fermoy, wife of Baron Fermoy, is Diana, Princess of Wales' maternal grandmother. The Hillses had two sons, both born in Jamaica. The family frequently sailed to England for events such as the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II and Mayor Bremner's presenting Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother with Freedom of the Borough, which encompassed the royal family's home at nearby Sandringham.\n\nFrom 1949 to 1967, Christopher and Norah Hills became influential forces in Jamaica's commerce, art, politics and culture.\nBelieving that Jamaica's strength lay in its agriculture, Christopher Hills co-founded the Jamaica Agriculture & Industrial Party (AIP) as an alternative to the two major political parties: Jamaica Labour Party (JLP) and People's National Party (PNP), both of which he felt were too busy warring with each other to look out for the middle class and the country people who were the backbone of Jamaica's rural economy. Despite competing vigorously in the polls, the Hills couple were nevertheless close friends with JLP leader Sir Alexander Bustamante and Norman Manley, head of the PNP, who both served as Jamaican Prime Ministers. Norman Manley in fact had been best man at the Hills' wedding.\n\nIn 1951 Christopher and Norah Hills founded Hills Galleries Ltd, which, in cooperation with the Prime Minister's wife Edna Manley, became a nexus of the Jamaican art movement. The Gallery & Antiques showroom at 101 Harbour Street, Kingston was built on the site of Simon Bolivar's Jamaica residence where, in 1815, the revolutionary wrote his famous letter Carta de Jamaica.\n\nThroughout the 1950s and 1960s Hills Galleries supplied and exhibited local celebrity artists Ian Fleming and Noël Coward, enjoyed the patronage of British royals and such high-profile clients as Sadruddin Aga Khan, Winthrop Rockefeller, Elizabeth Taylor, Lady Bird Johnson, Grace Kelly and Errol Flynn. Hills Galleries was also the main agent for Rowney's, Grumbacher and Winsor & Newton art supplies in the West Indies. Through multiple exhibitions, the Hillses nurtured or launched the careers of a plethora of talented Jamaican artists, such as Gaston Tabois, Kenneth Abendana Spencer, Carl Abrahams, Barrington Watson, Albert Huie, Gloria Escoffery, Karl Parboosingh, Vernon Tong and the revivalist preacher/painter/sculptor Mallica Reynolds.\n\nChristopher Hills opened a Hills Galleries branch on Jamaica's north coast at Montego Bay, mooring his yacht, the \"Robanne\" at Round Hill, a popular resort for foreign leaders and industrialists vacationing in the Caribbean. It was there he met then Vice President Lyndon Johnson and CBS president William S. Paley, who in 1956, sponsored a Hills Galleries exhibition of Jamaican art at Barbizon Plaza in New York City, which awoke U.S. art collectors to Jamaica's dynamic sphere of artistic talent. The exhibition was described by the Daily Gleaner as \"Epochal in the establishment of a market for West Indian art.\" The Hills family spent weekends and holidays at Port Antonio visiting friends and clients including their neighbor, novelist Robin Moore at Blue Lagoon. There Hills met Baron Hans Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza who asked Hills to curate part of his art collection. For five years many classic works of the baron's international art acquisitions decorated the walls of the Hills' home. Von Thyssen also granted Hills' children access to his private island at San San near Port Antonio.\n\nIn 1955 Hills had just returned from sailing the \"Robanne\" to Havana when he met Adlai Stevenson who had given a speech honoring a visit to Jamaica by Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon. At the gallery Stevenson fell in love with Hills' George III period Sheraton bow-fronted desk, immediately purchasing it for his own office in Chicago. Over dinner, Hills shared his observations of simmering revolution in Cuba, while he and Stevenson compared their concepts of justice, democracy, conflict and dictatorships — a conversation that inspired Hills to publish his ideas for uplifting the world's underprivileged masses in his landmark volume \"Rise of the Phoenix\".\n\nHills also became an advocate for Jamaica's Rastafari movement, who were being oppressed in the late fifties. He gave Rastafarians jobs as woodcarvers, free paints to poor artists, such as the now-famed Ras Dizzy and bailed them out of Spanish Town Prison while encouraging rasta brethren to sustain themselves through art and music. Christopher and Norah Hills were personally thanked for their years of support for struggling rastas by Mortimo Planno, the Rasta teacher of Bob Marley and one of the few Rastafarian elders to have met with Emperor Haile Selassie in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.\n\nHills also \"reasoned\" Gandhian non-violence with Leonard Howell, the original \"Gong\" activist who founded Pinnacle, a Rastafarian community farm at Sligoville, a few miles from Hills' home. In 1958 Pinnacle was raided in a brutal crackdown by the authorities, ostensibly for growing marijuana, but in fact Rastafarianism at that time was regarded by The Crown as a threat to social harmony. Hills interceded with the Prime Minister but, with an election coming, law & order politics prevailed and many sustainable farming families had to leave the land. For his support, Hills was given the moniker \"The First White Rasta\". Unlike his skeptical friends and business colleagues, he saw Rastafarian spirituality as a righteous way of life, indeed growing out his hair and beard in solidarity and also in keeping with his emerging interest in the sadhus and enlightened sages of India who had much in common with the vegetarian mystical Rastafarians.\n\nBy 1960 Christopher Hills had accumulated a large metaphysical library on frequent trips to Samuel Weiser Books in New York, while writing his own books, \"Kingdom of Desire\", \"Power of the Doctrine\" and \"The Power of Increased Perception\". At 30 he retired from business and began to research multiple spiritual paths and the physics of what Einstein called Unified field theory. Prolific research papers and lectures came out of Hills' laboratory in the Blue Mountains (Jamaica) on subjects such as bioenergetics, hypnosis, tele-thought, biophysics, effects of solar radiation on living organisms, resonant systems of ionosphere, and capacitor effects of human body on static electricity and electron discharge of the nervous system. In 1960 he began a 30-year project to document the effects of sound and color on human consciousness and states of health.\n\nWith Norah Hills running the galleries, Hills set forth on a two-year journey travelling in Asia, Europe, Pakistan and India, meeting with members of the UN and calling on politicians, scientists and religious leaders. UNESCO hired him to shoot 1,000 photographs of their projects in faraway countries, which appeared in an exhibit at United Nations headquarters.\n\nHills' global odyssey's itinerary grew out of publishing his views on conflict resolution and alternative government in a manifesto, \"Framework for Unity\", that was circulated to The Commission for Research in the Creative Faculties of Man, a network he had founded of thinkers around the world which, in 1961, included Prof. Oliver Reiser, Humphry Osmond, Dr. Andrija Puharich, David Ben-Gurion, and Lady Isobel Cripps, among its 500 members.\n\nAfter teaming up with his good friend and noted lawyer Luis Kutner (co-founder of Amnesty International), Hills decided to search the world for a spot to establish a Center where a dedicated community could live and test his \"World Constitution for Self-Government by Nature's Laws\", which he published in a book with an introduction by Bertrand Russell.\n\nWorking his way on a speaking tour through Europe in the direction of India, Hills decided to make a precarious expedition to the remote Himalayan Hunza Valley where he had long been curious about the diet and extraordinary longevity of the Pashtun, Balti and Uzbek hill tribes. In Pakistan, Hills was the guest of Professors Duranni and Walid Uddin at Peshawar's College of Engineering. Visiting Sufi holy men and Islamic scholars in Karachi, he met Zulfikar Ali Bhutto to discuss possible Indo-Pakistan cooperation in algae cultivation in the climatically suitable Gujrat-Sind border region, which is where Bhutto and his ancestors were from. Later, when Bhutto was overthrown in a military coup, Hills orchestrated urgent appeals to General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq for clemency, but, like many westerners protesting Bhutto's imprisonment, was ignored, and Bhutto was hanged.\n\nIn the 1950s Hills became known to Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru through his friend the Deputy leader of India's Congress Party, Surendra Mohan Ghose, a Bengali revolutionary and relative of Sri Aurobindo. Hills invited Ghose to Jamaica, to speak at the 1961 Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference, and together they formed a partnership to promote World Union and global famine relief through algae aquaculture. S.M. Ghose was one of the founders of Auroville, an experimental sustainable-living International Village in Tamil Nadu. In 1962 Ghose took Hills to Sri Aurobindo Ashram for a personal audience with Aurobindo's successor, spiritual head of the ashram, Mirra Alfassa, known as \"The Mother\". Later Ghose arranged for Christopher Hills' son, John Hills, to give the keynote address at the World Parliament of Youth in Puducherry in 1971.\nIn 1959 Hills had lobbied Nehru to approve a government in exile for the Dalai Lama fleeing persecution in Tibet and to grant full refugee status to exiled Tibetans. He had become connected to the Tibetans through his study of Buddhism and in 1960 provided funding for the Young Lama's Home School in Dalhousie, Himachal Pradesh founded by his English friend Freda Bedi, one of Gandhi's handpicked satyagrahis who became Gelongma Karma Kechog Palmo, the first Western woman to take ordination in Tibetan Buddhism. Freda Bedi is the mother of film and television star Kabir Bedi. In 1968 Hills contributed to Freda Bedi's building of the Karma Drubgyu Thargay Ling nunnery at Tilokpur in the Kangra Valley and helped organize her journey to the West with the 16th Gyalwa Karmapa, Rangjung Rigpe Dorje in 1974.\n\nWhen Hills arrived in India, he found Nehru besieged by border disputes with China and discussion inevitably turned to Hills' theories of conflict resolution and how to avoid war. Their connection also evolved out of the fact that India was experiencing famine in some states. With dependence on wheat shipments from the United States, Hills helped lobby President Lyndon Johnson for an increase in wheat aid, which was granted. But when Hills mentioned his research with algae as a food source, then Nehru became interested and offered to support cultivation in India. (PDF will be posted)\n\nWhile in New Delhi, Hills spent time with the prime minister at Teen Murti Bhavan, enjoying Jawaharlal Nehru's rose gardens and meeting his daughter Indira Gandhi. Hills was the guest of Indian industrialist G.D. Birla, where on his first day in India, he had met Swami Shantananda, an enlightened sage and a remarkably politically connected guru with whom Hills would travel throughout India for two years, much like a roaming sanyassin. On one of his \"pilgrimages\", Hills was taken by Shantanananda and Nehru's Parliamentary Secretary S.D. Upadhyaya to Brindavan for a private audience with India's highest female yogini Sri Anandamayi Ma, from whom he felt a \"genuine sublime holiness\" and received one of the most significant blessings in his life.\n\nIn Patna, Bihar, Hills, along with Dr Raynor Johnson, were the only Europeans to attend the 1961 Science & Spirituality Conference, where seeds were sown for Hills' decade of cooperation with hundreds of Indian scientists and yogis, many of whom eventually journeyed to visit Hills' centers in the West and who comprised many of the delegates for a 1970 Yoga conference Hills staged in New Delhi.\n\nIn 1963, the Sri Aurobindo Ashram and Gandhi Peace Foundation sponsored another conference in Patna, hosted by Dr. Rajendra Prasad, Mahatma Gandhi's longtime right-hand disciple and first President of India. Prasad was supposed to speak at the conference but became ill, and Hills' guru Shantananda was leading prayers for him every day at the Sadaqat Ashram in Patna. Prasad requested to meet Hills, whose goals for World Union he had heard about from Nehru. Hills considered Prasad the most spiritual of the founders of Independent India, and their meeting was a profound encounter in which Prasad gave his blessing for Hills' global endeavors, but then the president lost consciousness, tightly holding onto Hills' hand. Apparently Prasad never recovered, and at the time, there was a controversy that the man who, through satyagraha, had resisted multiple British governments and Viceroys and been jailed by them for so many years, had said his last words to an Englishman.\n\nIn earlier travels from Jamaica to Japan, Hills had formed an aquaculture research company with his friend and colleague, biologist Dr Hiroshi Nakamura, Dean of Tokyo Women's University. Dr Nakamura was a noted scientist and a colleague of Emperor Hirohito (himself a marine biologist) who asked Nakamura to research alternative food sources for Japan after the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki had devastated food supplies. The goal of Hills and Nakmura's organization Microalgae International Union, was to develop strains of algae as a way of harnessing the sun's energy for biofuels and human nutrition and as a solution to World Hunger. Presented with M.I.U.'s feasibility studies, Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru endorsed Hills' proposal for bringing the cultivation of protein-rich Chlorella algae to the villages of India.\n\nWith India's Home Minister, Gulzari Lal Nanda, Hills had co-founded the Institute of Psychic and Spiritual Research in New Delhi. A devout Gandhian, Nanda feared social upheaval and possible communal violence if poor and hungry villagers started migrating to India's cities so he threw his support behind Hills' plan for developing rural economies via small footprint aquaculture that could help villages become sustainable. A detailed plan for a pilot project in the Rann of Kutch was approved by the Indian government. However, the initiative became mired in bureaucracy when Nehru died in 1964. Nanda became acting prime minister but only until the new Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri was nominated to succeed Nehru. Shastri continued working with Hills and had his staff prepare a budget request for Parliament to fund the chlorella algae project. However, because it competed with traditional agricultural interests, the aquaculture project became victim to political jockeying as well as an outbreak of war with Pakistan. With Shastri's mysterious death at the 1966 India-Pakistan peace conference in Tashkent, the project lost its key sponsor.\n\nNevertheless, the networks Hills had established with the founders of modern India proved valuable when his son, John Hills, was introduced by Nanda and S.M. Ghose to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, who helped the younger Hills garner support among India's Congress party and religious leaders for India's largest conference of Western scientists and Indian yogis.\n\nThree years after Jamaica's 1962 declaration of Independence from Britain, the Hills family moved to London, at the suggestion of two of his mentors, Bertrand Russell and Sir George Trevelyan, 4th Baronet. They helped Hills find and purchase a six-story Edwardian building in London's leafy Kensington. There Christopher Hills and others, including Kevin Kingsland, founded Centre House, a self-discovery and human-potential community known as a nucleus of yoga and spirituality in the emerging New Age movement throughout the late sixties and seventies. Seekers came from all over the world to study with visiting gurus, such as Swami Satchidananda, Muktananda, B.K.S. Iyengar, Sangharakshita and John G. Bennett as well as Sanskrit scholar Dr. Rammurti Mishra, Christmas Humphreys, Tibetan lamas, chief Druids, homeopathic doctors and scientists studying meditation, telepathy and neuroplasticity in Hills' Yoga Science laboratory. It was here Christopher Hills wrote his magnum opus, \"Nuclear Evolution\" - recognized as a definitive treatise on the chakras as they relate to the human endocrine system, light frequencies and human personality. Yoga Journal described the book as, \"Synthesizing a vast amount of information ranging from the structure of DNA to the metaphysics of consciousness\" and also as, \"A giant step forward in integrating science with religion in a meaningful way.\"\n\nCentre House was an experiment in group consciousness where the majority of residents were well-educated students, teachers and scientists interested in the convergence of science and spirituality. For a while the large basement kitchen was a macrobiotic restaurant, first run by Craig Sams, then called Gandalf's Garden which counted John Lennon amongst its health-conscious patrons. Its founder, Muz Murray (Ramana Baba), was one of the early residents of Centre House and there published the first issues of \"Gandalf's Garden\" magazine, a publication chronicling the vitality of London's New Age scene. Kevin Kingsland went on to found the Centre for Human Communication in Devon and Grael Associates (a Community Company)..\n\nIn December 1970 Christopher Hills, his son John, and Kevin Kingsland organized the world's first World Conference on Scientific Yoga (WCSY) in New Delhi, bringing 50 Western scientists together with 800 of India's leading swamis, yogis and lamas to discuss their research and establish a network for the creation of a World Yoga University.\nThe conference generated some controversy when Indian politics intersected with religion, particularly the concept of \"Christ Yoga\", a book Hills had written linking Christ's teachings to those of Buddha and the Vedas. But the conclave nevertheless emerged as a milestone in the soon-to-be-booming migration of Indian yogis to the West. John Hills, helped by his father's prior relationship with Nehru, worked with India's Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and the Nehrus' yoga master Dhirendra Brahmachari to steer a fractious committee of MPs, ministers and often competitive spiritual leaders from disparate religions and castes into creating a uniquely diverse and widely hailed program of events. Presenters from the West included transpersonal psychology pioneer Dr. Stanislav Grof and Dr. Sidney Jourard who compared their research in lively sessions with Indian scholars, scientists, philosophers and yogis such as B.K.S. Iyengar, Shri K. Pattabhi Jois, Jiddu Krishnamurti, Swami Satchidananda, Padma Bhushan Murugappa Channaveerappa Modi, R.R. Diwaker, Swami Rama, Acharya Dharma Deva Vidya Martand, Kaivalyadhama Health and Yoga Research Center and yoga hospital founder Dr. G. S. Melkote, M.P.\n\nThe actor James Coburn, a yoga and martial arts practitioner, described the World Conference on Scientific Yoga as \"Very rewarding for me, definitely worth the time and money getting here.\" \n\nDuring the conference, Dhirendra Brahmachari presided over the wedding of organizer Kevin Kingsland and yoga teacher Venika Mehra. James Coburn also attended. Kevin and Venika Kingsland went on to establish various Centres for Human Communication in the UK, USA and India, teaching yoga, human communication and promoting community consciousness.\n\nPost-conference, the select delegates' presentations were published in \"CHAKRA\" magazine, founded with the help of Tantra scholar Ajit Mookerjee and Indian art patron Virendra Kumar and edited by John Hills whose first venture in publishing was mentored by Baburao Patel M.P., editor of \"Filmindia\" and \"Mother India\" magazines.\n\nThe conference was deemed a success and Christopher Hills was elected by a majority of the delegates to establish a World Yoga University somewhere on the planet. A mission that would take him from the United Kingdom to the United States.\n\nAs the spiritual axis shifted to America, Christopher Hills visited his friend Laura Huxley who urged him to move to the United States where he settled in Boulder Creek, California, and became a U.S. citizen. There, amidst the ancient redwoods, he founded in 1973, an accredited college, University of the Trees, an alternative education and research center for the social sciences to study the laws of nature and their relation to human consciousness. Students lived on campus and studied subjects as diverse as Radionics and dowsing (Hills was a well-known diviner), meditation, hatha yoga, the Vedas, and early forms of social networking he called \"Group Consciousness\".\n\nThe campus housed University of the Trees Press which published Christopher Hills' writings and the research of a number of resident students who obtained degrees at the university and wrote books on light & color frequencies and the science of Radionics. A small workshop produced pendulums for dowsing and a line of negative ion generators. With the buildup of the vitamin business surrounding discoveries that spirulina had significant weight loss benefits University of the Trees became one of the largest employers in the San Lorenzo Valley and leased more than 10 buildings in Boulder Creek for housing students and warehousing for Light Force, a burgeoning nutritional products brand based on spirulina.\n\nFrom this base in California, Hills extended his hospitality to a pantheon of visiting scientists, writers, philosophers and scholars such as Alan Watts, Edgar Mitchell, Barbara Marx Hubbard, Allen Ginsberg, Thelma Moss, Hiroshi Motoyama, Haridas Chaudhuri, Sri Lanka president Ranasinghe Premadasa, Menninger Foundation's Swami Rama, Dr. Evarts G. Loomis, Viktoras Kulvinskas, Max Lüscher, Marcia Moore, Bernard Jensen and countless others in the fields of human potential, holistic health, aquaculture, religion, quantum physics and alternative medicine.\n\nWithin the campus, Hills founded an experimental laboratory, managed by physicist Dr. Robert Massy, to develop his theories on the Electro Vibratory Body – documenting what Hills' colleague Stanford University's William A. Tiller Ph.D, calls \"subtle energies\" or \"psychoenergetics\". Shortly before he died radionics pioneer George de la Warr donated a substantial portion of his research files, library and instruments to Christopher Hills. In 1975 Hills wrote the book \"Supersensonics — the Science of Radiational Paraphysics\", widely considered \"The Bible of dowsing\" The book sheds new light on divining, telepathy, The I Ching, Egypt's Pyramids, Biblical miracles and discusses the value of low level extrasensory phenomena vs higher levels of insight, wisdom and consciousness. \"New Age Journal\" magazine called \"Supersensonics\" \"A short course in miracles for scientist and seeker alike.\"\n\nWith the Cold War in full swing liberation from the evils of totalitarianism was a constant theme in Hills writings. He lobbied hard against the KGB's persecution of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn and the internal exile with police surveillance of Andrei Sakharov and the denial of an exit visa for Natan Sharansky's emigration to Israel. Christopher Hills' lifelong crusade against dictatorships and Man's inhumanity was manifested in the book \"Rise of the Phoenix\" while his passionate beliefs against deficit spending were set forth in a book on the global economy — \"The Golden Egg\". A recurring theme throughout all Christopher Hills' approaches to world, local and family problems was a process he developed called \"Creative Conflict\" — the same principles of solving differences between individuals, political parties and even nations that Hills had debated with Adlai Stevenson, Nehru and Luis Kutner.\n\nThroughout the seventies and eighties Hills focused on international affairs, particularly the emergence of democracy in the Soviet Republics, eventually traveling to Russia to meet with Mikhail Gorbachev where he joined the Soviet Peace Committee. U.S. Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush bestowed awards on Hills for his commitment to democratic freedom and his humanitarian support for victims of oppression.\n\nThe Christopher Hills Foundation donated more than $9 million worth of spirulina products to charitable organizations in the U.S. and abroad. When the Soviet Union had occupied Afghanistan, Hills learned from his friends in Peshawar that Afghan freedom fighter Ahmad Shah Masoud's mujahadeen troops as well as Tajik and Pashtun tribals were starving because supply routes had been cut by Russian forces. Hills donated and shipped $300,000 worth of spirulina, which was packed in by mules with help from Senator Charlie Wilson to sustain the Afghans.\n\nIn 1989 Sri Lanka president Ranasinghe Premadasa, struggling to find a formula to end the Sri Lankan Civil War, traveled to Boulder Creek to meet with Hills and learn more about his conflict resolution concepts. The two men shared a spiritual connection and established a close friendship. Premadasa then brought the Ceylon conflict closer to a democratic solution than any other Sri Lankan president had. However, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam hierarchy had split and in 1993 a faction assassinated Premadasa in a suicide bombing that killed 23 people.\n\nHills and Nakamura had a vision of feeding the world from lakes, seas and backyard aquaculture and in 1975 they authored a book, \"Food from Sunlight\" which published all their proprietary research as open source for the world to use in the cause against global famine and malnutrition. Their company, Microalgae International, invested in research and technology to find a super food for solving World Hunger. Early research focused on chlorella but its cellular structure was too small to be collected without expensive centrifuges. However, in 1967, while Dr Nakamura was living at Centre House, they discovered that women at Lake Chad were harvesting an algae in baskets to make dihé, a highly nutritious sun-baked biscuit. After studying the lakes of Africa, Hills and Dr Nakamura developed seed culture for a strain of 70% protein algae called spirulina that they had collected from Lake Aranguachi in Ethiopia. Later, in 1981, Dr Hills made an expedition to Lake Chiltu at the invitation of Mr. Wollie Chekal, Minister of Trade for the Ethiopian Revolutionary Government and brought back a new set of spirulina samples to his California laboratory for hybridizing an optimal strain for commercial cultivation.\n\nFor millennia spirulina had been a food staple for natives of Lake Chad and also for the Aztecs but Hills funded much of the early experimentation needed for its successful modern day mass cultivation, described in Dr Nakamura's book \"Spirulina: Food for a Hungry World\".\n\nTo manufacture spirulina nutritional products Hills started the Light Force company in Santa Cruz, California, which was one of the early models for multi-level marketing. Customers began reporting weight loss and health benefits from spirulina and the success story was featured in \"The National Enquirer\". Sales skyrocketed into the millions of dollars propelling Light Force to 50,000 distributors worldwide. To grow that much spirulina Hills formed joint ventures with Koor Foods in Eilat, Israel, Taiwan Aqua in Taipei and Sosa Texcoco at Lake Texcoco in Mexico. Hills also had an association with Cyanotech on the Big Island of Hawaii which grew a very pure Pacifica brand of spirulina. By 1995 more than 5000 tons of spirulina a year were being imported for Light Force products. To encourage domestic research and production Hills purchased a 150-acre farm and built raceway ponds filled from the land's own natural geothermal aquifer in Desert Hot Springs, California. Professor Nakamura's student and protégé Dr Kotaro Kawaguchi relocated from Japan as chief research scientist and working with Sebastian Thomas, an algae cultivation expert from India, they refined desert-grown spirulina into consumable powder using the world's first solar heated dryer.\n\nWhile a staff of 40 ran the Southern California \"Green Gold Farms,\" harvesting its own U.S.-grown spirulina for Light Force, Hills built a home/laboratory on a mountain in the redwoods of Boulder Creek, California, dedicated to researching neutraceuticals and as a gathering place for scientists, innovators and spiritual \"map makers\". Three years after moving to the new home Norah Hills died from Alzheimers eliciting an outpouring of affection from the many who had seen her as the \"divine mother\" and a significant force in all that Christopher Hills had achieved.\n\nAt the property he built a Hollywood quality video production studio to produce films on Enlightenment and, through new media, to inspire people to celebrate what he called the \"Divine Goddess\". The studio is run today by his second wife, artist/producer Penny Slinger Hills.\n\nIn 1996, after three decades of globetrotting, Hills visited Vietnam to invest in a naturally carbonated underground spring water venture. He contracted an obscure virus which caused a deterioration of his health. Light Force and the research company Biogenics were sold to Royal Body Care which continued to market the products.\n\nChristopher Hills died at home January 31, 1997 leaving his wife Penny Slinger Hills, two sons, John Hills and Anthony Hills and four grandchildren. He believed that \"Algae biomass was God's way of providing an inexhaustible source of energy from the sun\". Today millions of health conscious people enjoy the health benefits of spirulina in myriad products worldwide. Recent innovations have moved algae to the front burner as researchers recognize its efficiency as a carbon sequestration mechanism and alternative biofuel.\n\nHills' legacy of bio-innovation and commitment to hunger relief is being carried forward by the Christopher Hills Foundation.\n\nChristopher Hills wrote over 30 books. The following are a selection of his works:\n\n\nChristopher Hills Foundation is a 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to empowerment of rural economies and feeding the world's hungry.\n\n"}
{"id": "53705541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53705541", "title": "Comparative navy officer ranks of the Commonwealth", "text": "Comparative navy officer ranks of the Commonwealth\n\nRank comparison chart of naval forces of Commonwealth of Nations states.\n\nMost of the 52 commonwealth nations have their beginnings in British Empire and have shared naval traditions. By comparison Mozambique is a former Portuguese colony. Even after some had achieved a degree of independent government from the UK, their naval protection was still British; the Royal New Zealand Navy did not exist separately until 1941.\n\n"}
{"id": "6729980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6729980", "title": "Comparison of antivirus software", "text": "Comparison of antivirus software\n\nThis is a non-exhaustive list of \"notable\" antivirus and Internet Security software, in the form of comparison tables, according to their platform (e.g. desktop, mobile, server, etc.) and their operating systems (e.g. Windows, OS X, Linux, Solaris, Android, iOS, Ubuntu Touch, Windows Phone, etc.).\n\nThe term \"on-demand scan\" refers to the possibility of performing a manual scan (by the user) on the entire computer/device, while \"on-access scan\" refers to the ability of a product to automatically scan every file at its creation or subsequent modification.\n\nThe term \"CloudAV\" refers to the ability of a product to automatically perform scans on the cloud.\n\nThe term \"Email Security\" refers to the protection of emails from viruses and malware, while \"AntiSpam\" refers to the protection from spam, scam and phishing attacks.\n\nThe term \"Web protection\" usually includes protection from: infected and malicious URLs, phishing websites, online identity protection (privacy) and online banking protection.\n\nMany antivirus products use \"third-party antivirus engine\", this means that the antivirus engine is made by another producer, however the malware signature and/or other parts of the product may (or may not) be done from the owner of the product itself.\n\nThis list excludes Windows Phone 7 and Windows Phone 8 as they do not support running protection programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "27142549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27142549", "title": "Comparison of object-relational mapping software", "text": "Comparison of object-relational mapping software\n\nThis table shows a comparison of notable ORM software products currently available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10286932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10286932", "title": "Consumerist", "text": "Consumerist\n\nConsumerist (previously The Consumerist) was a non-profit consumer affairs website owned by Consumer Media LLC, a subsidiary of \"Consumer Reports\", with content created by a team of full-time reporters and editors. The site's focus was on consumerism and consumers' experiences and issues with companies and corporations, concentrating mostly on U.S. consumers. As an early proponent of crowdsourced journalism, some content was based on reader-submitted tips and complaints. The majority of the site's articles consisted of original content and reporting by the site's staff. On October 30, 2017, \"Consumer Reports\" shut down \"Consumerist\", stating that coverage of consumer issues would now be found on the main Consumer Reports website.\n\nGawker Media established the site in December 2005, with Joel Johnson as editor. Johnson had previously edited Gizmodo for Gawker. \"Consumerist\" was an idea from Gawker Media owner Nick Denton and managing editor Lockhart Steele; according to Johnson, \"they knew they wanted a shopping blog—but not a shopping blog—and that they wanted to address the issues that consumers really find the most frustrating on a daily basis.\"\n\nThe idea of the site was based on a similar Hungarian blog called Tékozló Homár (\"Wasteful Lobster\" in Hungarian), which was initiated by Nick Denton's Hungarian friend, László Szily. \"Tékozló Homár\" is part of the Hungarian leading portal Index.\n\nIn creating \"Consumerist\", Denton established its slogan and initial focus on readers' complaints, \"consumer-oriented news nuggets, funny pictures and shopping tips — all with the same snarky tone that characterizes Gawker properties like Wonkette and Defamer.\". Gawker hired Ben Popken to take over as site lead in February, 2006. Johnson left Gawker in July 2006, citing a \"disagreement about [his] role within the company.\"\n\nGawker put the site up for sale in November 2008, at the same time it announced the closure of one of its other blogs,\" Valleywag. Consumerist\" was purchased by Consumers Union, the publishers of \"Consumer Reports\", in December 2008. The site's two editors, site lead Ben Popken and senior editor Meghann Marco, were retained through the sale. Following the acquisition, Marco and Popken shared the title of Co-Executive Editor, and contributors Chris Walters and Carey Greenberg-Berger, who had been laid off by Gawker, were reinstated.\n\nDue to potential conflict of interest concerns, \"Consumerist\" does not run display ads for outside advertisers; while owned by Gawker, all display ads linked to other Gawker sites, although the \"Consumerist\" sold text ads through the Google AdWords program. As such, the site was considered a loss leader, whose primary business role was to help drive traffic to other revenue-producing Gawker sites. As an ad-free publication, \"Consumerist\" \"has some freedom\" to take on major national advertisers such as Comcast.\n\n\"Consumer Reports\" laid off Managing Editor Ben Popken in November 2011. The departure was announced in a final blog post by Popken on Consumerist. Other editors have since joined the site, including Deputy Editor Chris Morran, Senior Editor Mary Beth Quirk, Assistant Editor Laura Northrup, Content Editor Kate Cox, and Special Projects Editor Ashlee Kieler.\n\n\"Consumerist\"'s traffic remained steady throughout most of its existence. At the time it was acquired from Gawker, it had monthly traffic of approximately 10 million pageviews, and had similar levels as of 2014.\n\nOn August 30, 2017, \"The Wall Street Journal\" announced that it had appointed Meg Marco as its Editor, Digital Content Strategy, citing her history at \"Consumerist\", which it called \"the innovative digital arm of Consumer Reports.\"\n\nOn October 30, 2017 it was announced that no further posts to Consumerist.com would be made.\n\nUsually the first post of every Friday consisting of reader submitted photos.\n\nA popular past feature was known as \"Great Moments In Commercial History\", which focused on strange and entertaining local commercials. Past feature \"moments\" have included Moo and Oink grocery stores (Chicago, Illinois) and Mr. Appliance (Eugene, Oregon).\n\nThis feature publicized photos or stories of retail stores advertising Christmas sales, displaying Christmas decorations, or playing Christmas music far before the traditional holiday season, and often appeared between September and early November.\n\nIn a post introducing \"Above and Beyond\", Creator Carey Greenberg-Berger said: \"Occasionally, corporations do something right. Not all the time. Not most of the time. Occasionally. When they do, we want to give credit where credit is due.\"\n\n\"Consumerist\" ran an annual \"Worst Company In America\" contest with the winner determined by a series of reader polls. The single-elimination tournament was similar in format to college basketball's March Madness being held simultaneously. Companies that have advanced to the final four are included in the table below. The winning company was sent a \"Golden Poo\" trophy. In recent years, silver and bronze poos have been sent to the other finalists. This tournament was last held in 2014.\n\nStories reported on \"Consumerist\" have been featured in national media such as CNN and \"The New York Times\". \"Consumerist\" often posts phone numbers and contact information for CEOs and upper level corporate customer support, and provides information on how to execute an \"Executive Email Carpet Bomb\".\n\nOn June 13, 2006, Vincent Ferrari posted an audio file of himself speaking with an AOL representative, allegedly named John, as Ferrari tried to cancel his AOL account. The AOL representative initially resisted Ferrari's request by attempting to keep the discussion focused on Ferrari's reasons for wanting to cancel. Vincent asked the customer representative several times to close the account until the conversation became confrontational, at which point Ferrari adamantly stated, \"Cancel the account!\", repeatedly until John complied with his request. After recording this call, Ferrari both posted it to his blog and submitted it to \"Consumerist\" tip line. The AOL representative whom Vincent spoke to was fired from his job. \"Consumerist\" called the story \"[t]he best story we ever posted.\"\n\nThe \"grocery shrink ray\" is a term Meghann Marco coined to describe the trend for groceries to be reduced in size while being sold at the same price point. Manufacturers perform these reductions to reduce their own costs but do not pass any savings on to the customer. Installments of these articles usually included user submitted photographs of the product in question on the shelf, being sold along with a newer and slightly smaller version of the same product. Local and national media outlets such as WTVT-TV FOX 13 in Florida, and National Public Radio have interviewed Popken regarding the trend and his attempts to inform the public at large.\n\nOn February 15, 2009, \"Consumerist\" broke the news of a terms of service clause that gave Facebook the right to \"Do anything they want with your content. Forever.\" Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook, Inc., later claimed that a paragraph was accidentally left out saying that the license to your content was exclusive to one's privacy settings and that the license expired when an account was closed. This event instigated much media coverage over the controversy of the terms of service.\n\nOn October 30, 2017, \"Consumerist\" announced it was shutting down, and that coverage would be handled by Consumer Reports in the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "18593441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18593441", "title": "Crowds and Power", "text": "Crowds and Power\n\nCrowds and Power () is a 1960 book by Elias Canetti, dealing with the dynamics of crowds and \"packs\" and the question of how and why crowds obey power of rulers. Canetti draws a parallel between ruling and paranoia. Also, the memoirs of Daniel Paul Schreber are analyzed with an implicit critique of Sigmund Freud and Gustave Le Bon.\n\nThe book was translated from German into English by Carol Stewart in 1962 and published by Gollancz.\n\nIt is notable for its unusual tone; although wide-ranging in its erudition, it is not scholarly or academic in a conventional way. Rather, it reads like a manual written by someone outside the human race explaining to another outsider in concise and highly metaphoric language how people form mobs and manipulate power. Unlike much non-fiction writing, it is highly poetic and seething with anger.\n\nOn asking questions:\n\"On the questioner the effect is a feeling of enhanced power. He enjoys this and consequentially asks more and more questions; every answer he receives is an act of submission. Personal freedom consists largely in having a defense against questions. The most blatant tyranny is the one which asks the most blatant questions.\"\n\nThis work remains important for the insights it provided into the Eastern European upheaval which can be understood within the framework Canetti puts forth. Showing the growth of crowds and their power against even the power of the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "49641978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49641978", "title": "Dicționar enciclopedic român", "text": "Dicționar enciclopedic român\n\nThe Dicționar enciclopedic român is a Romanian encyclopedia published by Editura Politica between 1962 and 1966. It contained many specialized articles as well as biographical articles on topics in Romanian and universal culture.\n\nThe \"Dicționar enciclopedic român\" was developed under the auspices of the Academy of the People's Republic of Romania (later the Academy of the \"Socialist\" Republic of Romania, after the name change in 1965.) Volumes one and two were published under the title \"Dicționar enciclopedic romîn\" in conformity with the Romanian orthographic regulations of 1953.\n\nThe encyclopedia had a total of approximately 3,700 pages and 46,000 words. There were about 6000 illustrations and over 200 charts and maps.\n\nThere were more than 400 individual authors working on this project, divided into 21 teams: agriculture and forestry; art; biology, botany and zoology; chemistry; law; economics; logic, philosophy, the history of religion and atheism; physics; geography and geology; medieval history, modern history, and contemporary history; history of the labour movement; ancient history and archaeology; linguistics; romanian literature; world literature; mathematics and astronomy; human medicine, biochemistry, pharmacology and physical culture; military affairs; psychology and pedagogy; Scientific socialism and press; technology.\n\nThe main editorial Committee was composed of the following individuals:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161228", "title": "Document", "text": "Document\n\nA document is a written, drawn, presented, or memorialized representation of thought. The word originates from the Latin \"documentum\", which denotes a \"teaching\" or \"lesson\": the verb \"doceō\" denotes \"to teach\". In the past, the word was usually used to denote a written proof useful as evidence of a truth or fact. In the computer age, \"document\" usually denotes a primarily textual computer file, including its structure and format, e.g. fonts, colors, and images. Contemporarily, \"document\" is not defined by its transmission medium, e.g., paper, given the existence of electronic documents. \"Documentation\" is distinct because it has more denotations than \"document\". Documents are also distinguished from \"realia\", which are three-dimensional objects that would otherwise satisfy the definition of \"document\" because they memorialize or represent thought; documents are considered more as 2 dimensional representations. While documents are able to have large varieties of customization, all documents are able to be shared freely, and have the right to do so, creativity can be represented by documents, also. History, events, examples, opinion, etc. all can be expressed in documents. \n\nThe concept of \"document\" has been defined by Suzanne Briet as \"any concrete or symbolic indication, preserved or recorded, for reconstructing or for proving a phenomenon, whether physical or mental.\"\n\nAn often cited article concludes that \"the evolving notion of \"document\"\" among Jonathan Priest, Otlet, Briet, Schürmeyer, and the other documentalists increasingly emphasized whatever functioned as a document rather than traditional physical forms of documents. The shift to digital technology would seem to make this distinction even more important. Levy's thoughtful analyses have shown that an emphasis on the technology of digital documents has impeded our understanding of digital documents as documents (e.g., Levy, 1994). A conventional document, such as a mail message or a technical report, exists physically in digital technology as a string of bits, as does everything else in a digital environment. As an object of study, it has been made into a document. It has become physical evidence by those who study it.\n\n\"Document\" is defined in library and information science and documentation science as a fundamental, abstract idea: the word denotes everything that may be represented or memorialized in order to serve as evidence. The classic example provided by Suzanne Briet is an antelope: \"An antelope running wild on the plains of Africa should not be considered a document[;] she rules. But if it were to be captured, taken to a zoo and made an object of study, it has been made into a document. It has become physical evidence being used by those who study it. Indeed, scholarly articles written about the antelope are secondary documents, since the antelope itself is the primary document.\" This opinion has been interpreted as an early expression of actor–network theory.\n\nDocuments are sometimes classified as secret, private, or public. They may also be described as drafts or proofs. When a document is copied, the source is denominated the \"original\".\n\nStandards are accepted for specific applications in various fields, e.g.:\n\nSuch standard documents can be drafted based on a template.\n\nThe page layout of a document is the manner in which information is graphically arranged in the space of the document, e.g., on a page. If the appearance of the document is of concern, page layout is generally the responsibility of a graphic designer. Typography concerns the design of letter and symbol forms and their physical arrangement in the document (see typesetting). Information design concerns the effective communication of information, especially in industrial documents and public signs. Simple textual documents may not require visual design and may be drafted only by an author, clerk, or transcriber. Forms may require a visual design for their initial fields, but not to complete the forms.\n\nTraditionally, the medium of a document was paper and the information was applied to it in ink, either by hand writing (to make a manuscript) or by mechanical process (e.g., a printing press or laser printer). Today, some short documents also may consist of sheets of paper stapled together.\n\nHistorically, documents were inscribed with ink on papyrus (starting in ancient Egypt) or parchment; scratched as runes or carved on stone using a sharp tool, e.g., the Tablets of Stone described in the Bible; stamped or incised in clay and then baked to make clay tablets, e.g., in the Sumerian and other Mesopotamian civilizations. The papyrus or parchment was often rolled into a scroll or cut into sheets and bound into a codex (book).\n\nContemporary electronic means of memorializing and displaying documents include:\n\nDigital documents usually require a specific file format in order to be presentable in a specific medium.\n\nDocuments in all forms frequently serve as material evidence in criminal and civil proceedings. The forensic analysis of such a document is within the scope of questioned document examination. For the purpose of cataloging and managing the large number of documents that may be produced during litigation, Bates numbering is often applied to all documents in the lawsuit so that each document has a unique, arbitrary, identification number.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2636393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2636393", "title": "Domain hack", "text": "Domain hack\n\nA domain hack is a domain name that suggests a word, phrase, or name when concatenating two or more adjacent levels of that domain. For example, and , using the fictitious country-code domains \".ds\" and \".le\", suggest the words \"birds\" and \"example\" respectively. In this context, the word \"hack\" denotes a clever trick (as in programming), not an exploit or break-in (as in security).\n\nDomain hacks offer the ability to produce short domain names. This makes them potentially valuable as redirectors, pastebins, base domains from which to delegate subdomains and URL shortening services.\n\nOn November 23, 1992, was registered. In the 1990s, several hostnames ending in \"pla.net\" were active. The concept of spelling out a phrase with the parts of a hostname to form a domain hack became well established. On Friday, May 3, 2002, was registered to create . Delicious would later gain control of the delicio.us domain, which had been parked since April 24, 2002, the day the .us ccTLD (country code top-level domain) was opened to second-level registrations.\n\nWho.is is a whois lookup service, indicating the registered ownership information of a domain. It was established June 12, 2002 and registered to an address in Reykjavík, Iceland.\n\nOn January 14, 2004, the Christmas Island Internet Administration revoked .cx domain registration for shock site goatse.cx, a domain which used \"se.cx\" to form the word \"sex\". The domain was originally registered in 1999. Similar names had been used for parody sites such as oralse.cx or analse.cx; in some cases, .cz (Czech Republic) or .kz (Kazakhstan) are substituted for .cx.\n\nThe term \"domain hack\" was coined by Matthew Doucette on November 3, 2004 to mean \"an unconventional domain name that uses parts other than the SLD (second level domain) or third level domain to create the title of the domain name.\"\n\nYahoo! acquired on June 14, 2005, and on December 9, 2005.\n\nOn September 11, 2007, name servers for .me were delegated by IANA to the Government of Montenegro, with a two-year transition period for existing .yu names to be transferred to .me. One of the first steps taken in deploying .me online was to create .its.me as a domain space for personal sites. Many potential domain hacks, such as \"love.me\" and \"buy.me\", were held back by the registry as premium names for later auction. One .me domain hack example is .\n\nOn December 15, 2009 Google launched its own URL shortener under the domain using the ccTLD of Greenland. YouTube subsequently launched using the ccTLD of Belgium. In 2015 Google used the domain hack abc.xyz for their newly launched Alphabet Inc..\n\nIn March 2010, National Public Radio launched its own URL shortener under the domain using the ccTLD of Puerto Rico. The n.pr domain is currently used to link to an NPR story page by its ID and is one of the shortest possible domain hacks.\n\nIn late 2010, Apple launched a URL shortener at the domain , using the ccTLD of Spain, in a similar move to Google's goo.gl. Unlike goo.gl, which is public and can be used for any web address, itun.es is used only for iTunes Ping URL shortening.\n\nSpotify also uses the URL Shortener , using the ccTLD of Finland, to link to artist, partners, playlists, albums and songs.\n\nFlickr uses with .kr being the ccTLD of South Korea.\n\nIn most cases, registration of these short domain names relies on the use of country code top-level domains (ccTLDs), each of which has a unique two-letter identifier.\n\nFor example, makes use of the ccTLD .gs (South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands) to spell \"blogs\", makes use of the ccTLD .st (São Tomé and Príncipe) to spell \"fast\", uses the .one gTLD to spell \"everyone\", makes use of the ccTLD .am (Armenia) to spell the name of photo-sharing service \"Instagram\", makes use of the ccTLD .it (Italy) to spell \"help me learn it\", uses ccTLD .am (Armenia) and uses ccTLD .us (United States) and sharing it for subdomains with free hosting, uses ccTLD .ly (Libya) to spell \"telly\" (a popular British colloquial term for television), and some of Danbooru-style imageboards that end their name with '-booru' suffix may use the ccTLD .ru (Russia) to spell their own name.\n\nThe third-level domains , and make use of the SLDs , and from the ccTLDs .us (United States), .to (Tonga) and .it (Italy) to spell \"delicious\", \"crypto\" and \"exploit\" respectively.\n\nIn some cases, an entire ccTLD has been re-purposed in its international marketing, such as .am (Armenia), .fm (Federated States of Micronesia), .cd (Democratic Republic of the Congo), .dj (Djibouti), and .tv (Tuvalu) for sites delivering various forms of audiovisual content.\n\nLibya's ccTLD (.ly) has been used for English words that end with suffix \"ly\", such as sil.ly. Popular URL shortening services bit.ly, brief.ly, name.ly and ow.ly use this hack. In 2010, Libyan registry suspended an adult oriented .ly link shortener.\n\nIn Germany, Austria, and Switzerland the domain .ag for Antigua and Barbuda is used by corporations in the legal form of Aktiengesellschaft (commonly abbreviated as AG).\n\nThe American Samoa domain .as is popular in the handful of countries where A/S is the legal suffix for corporations.\n\nSome organisations situated in Switzerland use TLDs to specifically refer to their canton (such as the Belgian TLD .be for the Canton of Berne).\n\nIn Turkish, \"biz\" means \"we\", and can be used for emphasis at the end of \"we are\" sentences.\n\nFamily names in many Slavic languages written in internationalized variant end with \"ch\" (i.e. -ich, -vich, -vych, -ovich). This \"ch\" comes from Slavic \"ć\", \"č\", \"ч\", or \"ћ\". Therefore, the Swiss .ch ccTLD is an option. Another use case of .ch is for English words that end in \"ch\", e.g. tech, punch, search, crunch, rich. Examples of such domains are , , and .\n\nSince the introduction of .eu domains (\"eu\" meaning \"I\" in Romanian, Galician and Portuguese), these domains have become popular in Romania, with people registering their names with the .eu extension.\n\nIn French, Italian and Portuguese, « là » or « lá » mean \"there\". As the .la domain (Laos) is available for second-level registration worldwide, this can be an easy way to get a short, catchy name such as \"go there\". In Italy some TLDs are identical to Italian Provinces' identifier, such as .to (Turin) or .tv (Treviso) and are thus extensively used for web domains in the area. The Canadian domain .ca is also trivial to use as « cá » or « cà » (\"here\"), respectively in Portuguese and Neapolitan, or « ça » (\"that\"), in French; local Canadian presence is required.\n\nHungarian domains sometimes use the Moroccan top level domain .ma (meaning \"today\"). The Moldovan domain, .md, is used by doctors and medical companies, such as doctors.md, after a legal fight to allow such usage outside of Moldova.\n\nA fad amongst French-speakers was to register their names in the Niue TLD .nu, which in French and Portuguese means \"nude\" or \"naked\"; however, , Niue authorities have revoked many of these domain names. The handful that remain are joke domains without actual nudity. French speakers often use the Jersey TLD .je, since \"je\" means \"I\" in French. In addition, .je is used in the Netherlands, as it can mean both \"you\" or \"your\", and \"small\", since the addition of -je to most nouns produces a diminutive form (e.g. huis.je, or the defunct iPhone app feest.je (feestje meaning \"party\").\n\nLikewise, Dutch, Swedish, and Danish speakers sometimes use .nu, because it means \"now\" in these languages. The TLD is still used by many Swedish sites, as prior to 2003 it was impossible for individuals (and difficult for organizations) to register arbitrary domains under the .se TLD.\n\nIn Russian, \"net\" (as \"нет\", or \"nyet\" transliterated character for character) means \"no\", so there are many domains in the format \"something.net\" (e.g. redaktora.net meaning \"no editor\"). There is a plenty of words ending with \"ga\" («га»), including some highly popular (\"книга\" meaning \"book\", \"дорога\" meaning \"road\"). Domain .ga of Gabon is free for registration which catalyzed speed of these domains' registration. \n\nIn Czech, Polish and Slovak, \"to\" means \"it\", so there are many domains using Tonga's .to in the format \"do-something.to\" (e.g., zrobie.to, meaning \"I will do it\" in the Polish language or prestahujeme.to meaning \"We will move it\" as Slovak moving service). Notably, Czech file sharing service uloz.to was founded in 2007, and its name \"ulož to\" means \"save it\".\n\nIn Slovenian, \"si\" is a dative form of the reciprocal personal pronoun and a second person form of the verb \"to be\". As .si is a Slovenian ccTLD, domain hacks are abundant. Additionally, the domain is attractive to speakers of Romance languages, because it is a conjunction, pronoun or an affirmative interjection in many. ARNES limits the use of the domain to residents and entities of Slovenia.\n\nIn Spanish and Portuguese, \"ar\" is the ending of the infinitive of many verbs, so hacks with Argentina's TLD .ar are common (e.g. educ.ar, meaning \"to educate\").\n\nOne of the earliest commercial ISPs in Finland used the domain sci.fi — a reference to science fiction.\n\nIn Latin, many second-declension nouns in the nominative singular case end in the suffix -us, which is echoed in the TLD .us. So it is possible to create Latin-word domain names, such as obscur.us, which resembles the Latin word obscurus, which means dark, obscure, or unknown.\n\nSome registries allow Emoji in domains, permitting the creation of emoji domains. Many browsers display these domains as punycode for security reasons.\n\nWith the rise of new TLDs, some companies have registered entire TLDs in order to create a hack for their name. Most prominent is .gle, created for Google to be used as goo.gle.\n\nOther variations of domain name hacking include ambigram names, which when rotated 180° look exactly the same.\n\n"}
{"id": "52203164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52203164", "title": "EMI Archive Trust", "text": "EMI Archive Trust\n\nThe EMI Archive Trust is the charity which was established in 1996 to hold and maintain the archives of the EMI company and its parent companies such as the Gramophone Company. The archives are located in Hayes, where the company had its main factories, and contain many antique recordings.\n"}
{"id": "3991713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3991713", "title": "Encyclopedia of Afghan Jihad", "text": "Encyclopedia of Afghan Jihad\n\nThe Encyclopedia of the Afghan Jihad (Arabic: موسوعة الجهاد الأفغاني, tr: \"Mawsuat al-Jihad al-Afghani\") is a multivolume encyclopedia describing diverse weapons in Arabic. It was first published in Pakistan in late 1992 or early 1993. The encyclopedia consists of more than 8,000 pages—an abridged version has been reduced to approximately 1,000 pages—and has been divided into 11 volumes.\n\nAn electronic version of the original, full-length encyclopedia was discovered in the possession of a group of Muslim militants in Belgium in the 1990s. Since then, several copies have been found; one was found in the possession of Abu Hamza al-Masri, a Muslim cleric who controlled the Finsbury Park Mosque in London, and another was recovered from Osama bin Laden's headquarters in Kandahar.\n\nThe first volume deals with explosives, the second with first aid, and the last volume teaches the use of small arms, including anti-aircraft guns, anti-tank arms, and artillery. such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "48069118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48069118", "title": "Epistulae ad Atticum", "text": "Epistulae ad Atticum\n\nEpistulae ad Atticum (Latin for \"Letters to Atticus\") is a collection of letters from Roman politician and orator Marcus Tullius Cicero to his close friend Titus Pomponius Atticus. The letters in this collection, together with Cicero's other letters, are considered the most reliable sources of information for the period leading up to the fall of the Roman Republic. The letters to Atticus are special among Cicero's works in that they provide a candid view into his personal character — containing confession, frank self-revelation, and a record of his moods from day to day, without alteration. Traditionally spanning 16 books, the collection features letters from 68 to 44 BCE. A notable absence of early references to these particular letters suggest that they may not have been published until the middle of the first century CE, significantly later than Cicero's other letters and quite some time after the deaths of both Cicero (43 BCE) and Atticus (32 BCE).\n\nA manuscript containing the collection, along with \"Epistulae ad Quintum Fratrem\", and \"Epistulae ad Brutum\", was rediscovered in 1345 in Verona by Petrarch. Both the original and Petrarch's copy are lost, though a copy made for Coluccio Salutati is preserved in the Laurentian Library in Florence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2476462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2476462", "title": "Epsilon-induction", "text": "Epsilon-induction\n\nIn mathematics, formula_1-induction (epsilon-induction) is a variant of transfinite induction that can be used in set theory to prove that all sets satisfy a given property \"P\"[\"x\"]. If the truth of the property for \"x\" follows from its truth for all elements of \"x\", for every set \"x\", then the property is true of all sets. In symbols:\n\nThis principle, sometimes called the axiom of induction (in set theory), is equivalent to the axiom of regularity given the other ZF axioms. formula_1-induction is a special case of well-founded induction. The Axiom of Foundation (regularity) implies epsilon-induction.\n\nThe name is most often pronounced \"epsilon-induction\", because the set membership symbol formula_1 historically developed from the Greek letter formula_5.\n\n"}
{"id": "1487615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1487615", "title": "Footprint Travel Guides", "text": "Footprint Travel Guides\n\nFootprint Travel Guides is the imprint of Footprint Handbooks Ltd, a publisher of guidebooks based in Bath in the United Kingdom. Particularly noted for their coverage of Latin America, their \"South American Handbook\", first published in 1924, is in its 90th edition and is updated annually. The company now publish more than 200 titles covering many destinations. Since 2008, all handbook guides are published in lightweight hardback.\n\nThe initial focus on travel broadened to include activity and lifestyle guides on topics such as travel photography, travelling with children, mountain biking, diving, surfing, skiing, snowboarding and body and soul retreats. The range currently offered by Footprint includes: Footprint Handbooks, Footprint Focus, Footprint Dream Trip, Footprint with Kids, Footprint Activity and Lifestyle Guides, and Footprint Full-Colour Guides.\n\nGlobe Pequot Press acquired Footprint in 2007. When Globe Pequot was sold by parent Morris Communications to Rowman & Littlefield, Footprint was retained.\n\nThe company was incorporated in December 1922 as Trade and Travel Publications Ltd.\n\nIn 1924 the company published the South American Handbook, a new edition of a guide for business travellers first published in 1921 by the Federation of British Industry and entitled the \"Anglo-South American Handbook\".\n\nThe handbook remained the company's only guidebook for the next 65 years. Over the years the handbook expanded its coverage to include all the countries of South America, Central America, Mexico and the Caribbean. It continued to include data for businessmen, but by the 1970s was increasingly aimed at leisure travellers, particularly backpackers following the Gringo Trail. In 1989 the 65th edition was almost 1400 pages long.\n\nIn 1990 the handbook was split. The \"Mexico & Central America Handbook\" and the \"Caribbean Islands Handbook\" were published as separate volumes, and during the 1990s the company started developing a new travel guide series using the South American Handbook title as the flagship.\n\nTrade and Travel Publications changed its name to Footprint Handbooks Ltd in August 1996. By 1997 there were over a dozen guides in the series.\n\nThe series grew quickly and in 2004, Footprint launched its first thematic guide: \"Surfing Europe\". This was followed by further thematic guides such as \"Diving the World\", \"Snowboarding the World\", \"Body and Soul escapes\", \"Travel with Kids\" and \"European City Breaks\". In 2013 a brand new series, \"Footprint Dream Trip\", was launched.\n\nThe official history of the company, is included in the majority of Footprint’s publications.\n\n"}
{"id": "633319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=633319", "title": "Gault Millau", "text": "Gault Millau\n\nGault et Millau is a French restaurant guide. It was founded by two restaurant critics, Henri Gault and Christian Millau in 1965.\n\nGault Millau rates on a scale of 1 to 20, with 20 being the highest. Restaurants given below 10 points are rarely listed. The points are awarded based on the quality of the food, with comments about service, price or the atmosphere of the restaurant given separately. Based on this rating, high-ranking restaurants may display one to five toques. Gault Millau does not accept payment for listing restaurants.\n\nUnder its original authors and for many years after they left, Gault Millau never awarded a score of 20 points, under the argument that perfection is beyond the limitations of a normal human being. In 2004, two restaurants, both of chef Marc Veyrat, the Maison de Marc Veyrat (or L'Auberge de l'Eridan) in Veyrier-du-Lac near Annecy and La Ferme de Mon Père (\"My Father's Farm\") in Megève, received this score. To some, this reflects a fall of standards in the guide after it changed from employing a permanent editorial and tasting staff to using local agents.\n\nThere has been discussion about which guide is more important, the Michelin Guide or the Gault Millau. In the 1970s the Michelin's continued conservative support of traditional haute cuisine was challenged by the support of nouvelle cuisine by the Gault-Millau. Michelin is more popular and therefore more influential, while Gault Millau has been considered more purist due to the main system being based purely on the quality of the food. Gault Millau also has guides for various other countries, including Netherlands, Belgium & Luxembourg, Switzerland, Germany, and Poland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39133027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39133027", "title": "Heed Their Rising Voices", "text": "Heed Their Rising Voices\n\nHeed Their Rising Voices is a 1960 newspaper advertisement published in the \"New York Times\". It was published on March 29, 1960 and paid for by the \"Committee to Defend Martin Luther King and the Struggle for Freedom in the South\". The purpose of the advertisement was to draw attention and support towards Martin Luther King Jr. A recent felony charge of perjury was leveled against him and could have resulted in a lengthy imprisonment. The headline of the advertisement was drawn from a phrase used in the \"New York Times\" editorial, \"Amendment XV\", published on March 19, 1960. The advertisement became the source of a libel suit in the United States Supreme Court case \"New York Times Co. v. Sullivan\" (1964).\n\n"}
{"id": "33343461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33343461", "title": "Internet Domain Name Index", "text": "Internet Domain Name Index\n\nInternet Domain Name Index (IDNX) is a price index for Internet domain names that tracks changes in the value of domains at the aggregate level. The index builds on the premise that domain names are comparable to developable land. Domains are seen as \"locations\" on the Internet where companies or individuals can set up a business or just a personal homepage. This core analogy warrants the transfer of theoretical and empirical frameworks from academic real estate research to Internet domains as \"virtual land\".\n\nThe period covered by IDNX reaches back to January 2006. Internet domain name prices exhibit a strong correlation to the IT stocks as measured by the NASDAQ index. When the IT industry is doing well, prices of domain names tend to rise. In periods of falling stock prices, domains prices usually fall as well. This co-movement shows that domain names are not an asset class on their own, but that the \"real\" and the \"virtual\" economy are closely linked.\n\nIDNX is estimated in two steps. First, a hedonic repeat sales regression gives 12 annual price indices, all starting at different months of the year. By looking at repeat sales of similar domains, the inherent quality of the domains is controlled for. In a second step, these staggered annual indices are converted to a monthly index using a frequency conversion technique developed by David Geltner and Sheharyar Bokhari (both from MIT). First estimating indexes at the annual frequency and later converting them to monthly numbers reduces the volatility in index estimates without imposing an explicit time-structure.\n\nThe empirical estimations are based on a large data set of more than 200,000 (as of October 2011) real domain transactions facilitated by the domain market place Sedo.\n\nIDNX was launched in July 2011 by Thies Lindenthal.\n\n"}
{"id": "874806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=874806", "title": "Jewish museum", "text": "Jewish museum\n\nA Jewish museum is a museum which focuses upon Jewish people and may refer seek to explore and share the Jewish experience in a given area.\nNotable Jewish museums include:\n\n"}
{"id": "528892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528892", "title": "Journeys of Frodo", "text": "Journeys of Frodo\n\n\"Journeys of Frodo: An Atlas of J. R. R. Tolkien's\" The Lord of the Rings by Barbara Strachey is an atlas based on the fictional realm of Middle-earth, which traces the journeys undertaken by the characters in Tolkien's epic.\n\nThe book comprises 51 two-colour maps (a general map of Middle-earth and 50 numbered maps) at various scales, all based on the original \"The Lord of the Rings\" maps drawn by Christopher Tolkien from his father's sketches. Each map is on a right-hand page in landscape format and depicts physical features in black and contour lines in red. Routes taken by characters on roads and paths are shown in dashed black and red; routes off-road are in red only. Arrows show the direction of travel and dates are listed in red. Scales along the top and left of each map show the distance east/west (mainly east) and north/south (mainly south) from Bag End. At the bottom of each map is a scale showing miles to the inch and an indication of the lunar phase or phases visible at the dates given.\n\nEach numbered map is accompanied by a description on the facing left-hand page, in which Strachey describes the portion of the route indicated, often justifying her topographical decisions with quotes from the book. In some cases she points out discrepancies in the topographical descriptions, occasionally for instance altering the course of a road or a river on the grounds that it would otherwise be inconsistent with Tolkien's other descriptions of the terrain.\n\nChristopher Tolkien refers to \"Journeys of Frodo\" a number of times in \"The History of The Lord of the Rings\", often agreeing with Strachey's conclusions, and sometimes disagreeing.\n\n"}
{"id": "33953783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33953783", "title": "Life Beyond Tourism", "text": "Life Beyond Tourism\n\nLife Beyond Tourism (in short LBT) is a nonprofit worldwide portal free of banners, based in Florence, Italy. The portal dates back to 2008 and stems from an orientation by the Romualdo Del Bianco Foundation. The portal is an international platform for exchange of experiences and good practices in the framework of a tourism based on values and not only on services and consumerism.\n\nThe portal originates from an orientation of the Romualdo Del Bianco Foundation. In 20 years of activity, the Foundation elaborated a new concept of the cultural heritage as an instrument of understanding among cultures. According to this orientation, cultural heritage is not only to be safeguarded and enhanced, but also to be “used and enjoyed” to foster intercultural dialogue.\nIn September 2008 the Romualdo Del Bianco Foundation announced the establishment of the association Life Beyond Tourism for Intercultural Dialogue. Soon after, a Declaration of Intents was signed (March 2008) by 59 experts of the Foundation from 20 different countries. In February 2011 the association developed the Life Beyond Tourism Non-Profit Portal. \nAccording to the LBT Manifesto “the tourist is a potential harbinger of knowledge and of intercultural dialogue” and therefore “the tourist destination is a workshop of knowledge, providing all visitors with an opportunity for cultural growth”\nThe Province of Florence welcomed the LBT orientation and decided to promote it. Many other cultural institutions and public administrations in Central Europe and Eurasia also joined the initiative.\n\nLife Beyond Tourism gathers the cultural expressions representing a given region to provide a good picture of its “cultural personality” resulting from the interaction between its cultural heritage and ongoing developments. The aim of the portal is to convey a territory’s specific features and to emphasize the way in which tangible and intangible heritage is combined to human and environmental levels. \nThe portal is addressed to all cultural institutions, companies, professional and individuals who share the philosophy of the portal. In particular there are some typologies of members:\nThe portal is non-profit: the profits of memberships are reinvested into for cultural and development initiatives in the territory itself.\nThe supporters of Life Beyond Tourism promote a tourism of high cultural quality with a special focus on intercultural dialogue.\n\nMany organizations granted their patronage to Life Beyond Tourism. Among them: ICCROM, ICOMOS Italia, the Council of Europe, the Società Italiana per la Protezione dei Beni Culturali (CIPBC), the Borsa Mediterranea del Turismo Archeologico, the Associazione Città e Siti Italiani Patrimonio Mondiale UNESCO. Among the Italian local authorities: The Region of Tuscany, the Province of Florence, the Municipality of Florence, many municipalities in Tuscany (Castelfiorentino, Forte dei Marmi, Montecatini, Reggello, San Piero a Sieve, Scarperia. For the moment also the Krakow and the Tbilisi municipalities granted their patronage.\n\nThe members that joined to LBT are from many different countries: Albania, Armenia, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Vatican City, Colombia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, United Kingdom, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Macedonia, Mexico, Morocco, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Syria, Sweden, Taiwan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, the U.S., Uzbekistan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1546418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1546418", "title": "List of Danish chronicles", "text": "List of Danish chronicles\n\nDanish Chronicles, annals and historical works from antiquity to medieval times. These books / writings (and others) form the bases of knowledge for early Danish history.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1740676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1740676", "title": "List of FIPS region codes", "text": "List of FIPS region codes\n\nThis is a list of FIPS 10-4 region codes, using a standardized name format, and cross-linking to articles. The list is broken up into alphabetical sections.\n\nABC – DEF – GHI – JKL – MNO – PQR – STU – VWXYZ\n\nOn September 2, 2008, FIPS 10-4 was one of ten standards withdrawn by NIST as a Federal Information Processing Standard. It is to be replaced by ISO 3166.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12123419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12123419", "title": "List of airline codes (B)", "text": "List of airline codes (B)\n"}
{"id": "46767451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46767451", "title": "List of best-selling films in the United States", "text": "List of best-selling films in the United States\n\nThis list of best-selling films in the United States is a list of the best-selling home video film titles sold in the United States. This list does not include digital purchases or video rentals.\n\nThis is a list of the best-selling film titles sold in the United States across all home video formats, including VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray Disc (BD).\n\nThis is a list of the best-selling VHS titles in the United States.\n\nThis is a list of the best-selling DVD titles in the United States.\n\nThis is a list of the best-selling Blu-ray Disc (BD) titles in the United States.\n\nThis is a list of the best-selling LaserDisc (LD) titles in the United States.\n\nThis is a list of the best-selling films on Sony's proprietary Universal Media Disc (UMD) format in the United States.\n\nThis is a list of the best-selling video titles sold on DVD and/or Blu-ray Disc in the United States by year.\n\n"}
{"id": "16981812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16981812", "title": "List of medical abbreviations: C", "text": "List of medical abbreviations: C\n"}
{"id": "33867036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33867036", "title": "Lucky Ducky (film)", "text": "Lucky Ducky (film)\n\nLucky Ducky is a 1948 American animated cartoon from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was directed by Tex Avery, animated by Walt Clinton (here credited as Walter Clinton), Preston Blair, Louie Schmitt, and Grant Simmons, and musical direction by Scott Bradley.\n\nThis short was originally in development as a \"George and Junior\" entry, but was ultimately produced with two random dog characters. This is the last MGM cartoon in black and white, and this is the only gag in black and white.\n\nThe foreword of the cartoon tells:\n\n\"Dedicated\"\n\"to those duck hunters\"\n\"who leave at dawn\"\n\"with loaded gun...\"\n\"and come home late loaded...\"\n\nMany ducks are swimming and flying around a pond. They are also doing a conga line around two dogs who are hunting, waiting in their boat. Nearby at a tree, a sign reads \"\"No Hunting Before 6:AM\". As the clock finally strikes six, all the ducks fly away before the two dogs have the chance to shoot one. Then the dogs spot a mother duck having her nest with an egg in it strapped to herself. The dogs miss the shot but the strap breaks, dropping the egg onto the boat and hatching. Just then, it starts dancing and taking off the egg shell, and jumps into the water. The two dogs point their guns into the water, but no shooting is heard. The dogs lift their guns, revealing that the duckling had tied the point of their guns together in a knot. The duckling laughs and jumps back into the water. The duckling goes under the boat and pulls out a drill, and puts a hole in the boat. The dogs notice the leaking, and the small dog covers the hole with his hands. Water starts coming out of his ears and the big dog covers the small dog's ears with his hands. Suddenly, water starts coming out of the big dog's ears, and the small dog stops the water by using the big dog's nose like a faucet. The small dog uncovers the hole, and the duckling honks his nose, laughs, and dives back in. The small dog points his gun into the hole, but the duckling snaps it shut with a clip. The small dog pulls up his gun, and the big dog lets go of the clip, and the gun explodes in the small dog's face. The duckling then lifts the boat and hits it against the water. The duckling laughs and swims away.\n\nThe small dog then heads to the motor, but the engine won't start. The big dog lifts the anchor and uses the small dog's head to start the boat. As the dogs chase the duckling at super-sonic speed, the boat's rudder blades cut the water in half, then the land in half, sinking a tree. Continuing the chase in the boat on dry land, the blades proceed to turn a log, two trees and a rock mountain into a bridge, staircase and ladder, and Mount Rushmore, respectively. The duckling and the boat go into a hole in a tree, and goes through another tree that has a hole. The duckling passes between two trees with the big tree suddenly lifting the small tree before the boat can do something to it. After crossing a mudpit and squeezing between two other trees, the chase temporarily ends with the boat and everybody crashing into a rock and getting flattened. Now chasing the duckling on foot, they stop upon a \"Stop School Crossing\" sign with an actual schoolhouse crossing the road. Chasing the duckling into a forest, everything suddenly turns black and white, the trio having passed a sign indicating \"Technicolor Ends Here\". Going back into the color portion of the forest, the duckling stops at the edge of a cliff and spots the big dog coming towards him, prompting the duckling to pull out a bottle of \"Quick Grow\" and instantly turning a small plant into a tree which the big dog crashes into. The big dog then grabs an ax, and then puts it down to spit on his hands. The little dog comes back, and the big dog blindly uses him instead of the ax. The big dog notices this, and puts the little dog down. Then the little dog spits out a little pile of logs.\n\nBack at the pond, the big dog is sniffing out the scent of the duckling who dumps pepper into the big dog's nose and places a pie in his hands. The big dog's sneeze blows the pie out of his hands and all over the small dog, the whipped cream and cherry filling looking like an outfit of Santa Claus.\n\nThe duckling jumps into a hole in a log. The big dog then reaches his hand into the log, but the duckling makes a slingshot, slinging the big dog's hand into his head. The big dog then points his gun towards the hole, but the duckling pulls out a frightening mask, shrinking the gun. The big dog grabs the little dog's gun, but it doesn't shoot. The big dog pulls out the bullet and hands it to the little dog. The little dog gets shot in the face, leaving him in blackface. The little dog hands the big dog the bullet, and then the big dog gets left in blackface.\n\nNext, the duckling leaves its footprints in the ground. The dogs' guns point to where the duckling is: in three different paths. The small dog then gets out a duck call and blows, but the duckling answers back with a smaller duck call. The chase on water resumes by the dogs in their repaired boat. The duckling suddenly stops and the dogs are about to shoot, but the duckling pulls out a STOP sign and points to the clock which now has a sign showing \"NO SHOOTING AFTER 5:00 PM\". The whistle blows and the ducks come back, swimming, flying and doing another conga line. Meanwhile, on the boat, the duckling has now joined the conga line as the camera irises out on him.\n"}
{"id": "5094213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5094213", "title": "Ma'aseh Toviyyah", "text": "Ma'aseh Toviyyah\n\nMa'aseh Toviyyah or Ma'aseh Tobiyyah (\"Work of Tobias\") was an encyclopedic scientific reference book written by Tobias Cohn. It was published in Venice, Italy, in 1707, and reprinted there in 1715, 1728, 1769, and 1850. \n\nThe work is divided into eight parts: (1) theology; (2) astronomy; (3) medicine; (4) hygiene; (5) Syphilitic maladies; (6) botany; (7) cosmography; and (8) an essay on the four elements. The most important is the third part, which contains an illustration showing a human body and a house side by side and comparing the members of the former to the parts of the latter (see illustration).\n\nIn part 2 are found an astrolabe and illustrations of astronomical and mathematical instruments. Inserted between parts 6 and 7 is Turkish-Latin-Spanish dictionary; and prefixed to the work is a poem by Solomon Conegliano.\n"}
{"id": "2757364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2757364", "title": "Merseburg charms", "text": "Merseburg charms\n\nThe Merseburg charms or Merseburg incantations () are two medieval magic spells, charms or incantations, written in Old High German. They are the only known examples of Germanic pagan belief preserved in the language. They were discovered in 1841 by Georg Waitz, who found them in a theological manuscript from Fulda, written in the 9th or 10th century, although there remains some speculation about the date of the charms themselves. The manuscript (Cod. 136 f. 85a) is stored in the library of the cathedral chapter of Merseburg, hence the name.\n\nThe Merseburg Incantations are the only known surviving instance of ostensibly pre-Christian, pagan, Old High German literature.\n\nThe incantations were recorded in the 10th century by a cleric, possibly in the abbey of Fulda, on a blank page of a liturgical book, which later passed to the library at Merseburg. The incantations have thus been transmitted in Caroline minuscule on the flyleaf of a Latin sacramentary.\n\nThe spells became famous in modern times through the appreciation of the Grimm brothers, who wrote as follows:\n\nThe spells were published later by the Brothers Grimm in \"On two newly-discovered poems from the German Heroic Period\" (1842).\n\nThe manuscript of the Merseburg Incantations was on display until November 2004 as part of the exhibition \"Between Cathedral and World - 1000 years of the Chapter of Merseburg,\" at Merseburg cathedral. They were previously exhibited in 1939.\n\nEach charm is divided into two parts: a preamble telling the story of a mythological event; and the actual spell in the form of a magic analogy (\"just as it was before... so shall it also be now...\"). In their verse form, the spells are of a transitional type; the lines show not only traditional alliteration but also the end-rhymes introduced in the Christian verse of the 9th century.\n\nThe first spell is a \"Lösesegen\" (blessing of release), describing how a number of \"Idisen\" freed from their shackles warriors caught during battle. The last two lines contain the magic words \"Leap forth from the fetters, escape from the foes\" that are intended to release the warriors.\n\nPhol is with Wodan when Baldur's horse dislocates its foot while riding through the forest (\"holza\"). Wodan intones the incantation: \"Bone to bone, blood to blood, limb to limb, as if they were mended\".\n\nFigures that can be clearly identified within Continental Germanic mythology are \"Uuôdan\" (Wodan) and \"Frîia\" (Frija). Depictions found on Migration Period Germanic bracteates are often viewed as Wodan (Odin) healing a horse.\n\nComparing Norse mythology, Wodan is well-attested as the cognate of Odin. Frija the cognate of Frigg, also identified with Freyja.\n\"Balder\" is Norse Baldr. Phol is the masculine form of \"Uolla\", but the context makes clear that it is another name of Balder.\n\"Uolla\" has been linked to Fulla, a minor goddess and a handmaid of Frigg. Sunna (the sun) in Norse mythology is Sól, though her sister Sinthgunt is otherwise unattested.\n\nThe First Merseburg Charm (loosening charm)'s similarity to the anecdote in Bede's \"Hist. Eccles.\", IV, 22 () has been noted by Jacob Grimm. In this Christianized example, it is the singing of the mass, rather than the chanting of the charm, that effects the release of a comrade (in this case a brother). The unshackled man is asked \"whether he had any spells about him, as are spoken of in fabulous stories\", which curiously has been translated as \"loosening rune (about him)\" () in the Anglo-Saxon translation of Bede, as has been pointed out by Sophus Bugge. Bugge makes this reference in his edition of the Eddaic poem \"Grógaldr\" (1867), in an attempt to justify his emending the phrase \"Leifnir's fire (?)\" () into \"loosening charm\" () in the context of one of the magic charms that Gróa is teaching to her son. But this is an aggressive emendation of the original text, and its validity as well as any suggestion to its ties to the Merseburg charm is subject to skepticism.\n\nMany analogous magic incantations to the Second Merseburg Charm (horse-healing spell), have been noted. Some paralleling is discernible in other Old German spells, but analogues are particularly abundant in folkloric spells from Scandinavian countries (often preserved in so-called \"black books\".). Similar charms have been noted in Gaelic, Lettish and Finnish suggesting that the formula is of ancient Indo-European origin. Some commentators trace the connection back to writings in ancient India.\n\nOther spells recorded in Old High German or Old Saxon/Old Low German noted for similarity, such as the group of \"wurmsegen\" spells for casting out the \"Nesso\" worm causing the affliction. There are several manuscript recensions of this spell, and Jacob Grimm scrutinizes in particular the so-called \"Contra vermes\" variant, in Low German from the Cod. Vidob. theol. 259 (now ÖNB Cod. 751) The text is a mixture of Latin and German:\nContra vermes (against worms)\n<poem>\nGang ût, nesso, mit nigun nessiklînon,\nût fana themo margę an that bên, fan themo bêne an that flêsg,\nût fana themo flêsgke an thia hûd, ût fan thera hûd an thesa strâla.\nDrohtin, uuerthe so!\n</poem>\nAs Grimm explains, the spell tells the \"nesso\" worm and its nine young ones to begone, away from the marrow to bone, bone to flesh, flesh to hide (skin), and into the \"strâla\" or arrow, which is the implement into which the pest or pathogen is to be coaxed. It closes with the invocation: \"Lord (\"Drohtin\"), let it be\". Grimm insists that this charm, like the \"De hoc quod Spurihalz dicunt\" charm (MHG: \"spurhalz\"; \"lame\") that immediately precedes it in the manuscript, is \"about lame horses again.\" And the \"transitions from marrow to bone (or sinews), to flesh and hide, resemble phrases in the sprain-spells,\" i.e. the Merseburg horse-charm types.\n\nJacob Grimm in his \"Deutsche Mythologie\", chapter 38, listed examples of what he saw as survivals of the Merseburg charm in popular traditions of his time: from Norway a prayer to Jesus for a horse's leg injury, and two spells from Sweden, one invoking Odin (for a horse suffering from a fit or equine distemper) and another invoking Frygg for a sheep's ailment. He also quoted one Dutch charm for fixing a horse's foot, and a Scottish one for the treatment of human sprains that was still practiced in his time in the 19th century (See #Scotland below).\n\nGrimm provided in his appendix another Norwegian horse spell, which has been translated and examined as a parallel by Thorpe. Grimm had recopied the spell from a tome by Hans Hammond, \"Nordiska Missions-historie\" (Copenhagen 1787), pp. 119–120, the spell being transcribed by Thomas von Westen c. 1714. This appears to be the same spell in English as given as a parallel by a modern commentator, though he apparently misattributes it to the 19th century. The texts and translations will be presented side-by-side below:\n\nThe number of Norwegian analogues is quite large, though many are just variations on the theme. Bishop Anton Christian Bang compiled a volume culled from Norwegian black books of charms and other sources, and classified the horse-mending spells under the opening chapter \"Odin og Folebenet\", strongly suggesting a relationship with the second Merseburg incantation. Bang here gives a group of 34 spells, mostly recorded in the 18th–19th century though two are assigned to the 17th (c. 1668 and 1670), and 31 of the charms are for treating horses with an injured leg. The name for the horse's trauma, which occurs in the titles, is in most of the rhymes, with smatterings of \"raina\" and \"bridge\" (\"sic.\"), but they all are essentially synonymous with \"brigde,\" glossed as the \"dislocation of the limb\" in Aasen's dictionary.\n\nFrom Bishop Bang's collection, the following is a list of specific formulas discussed as parallels in scholarly literature:\nIt might be pointed out that none of the charms in Bang's chapter \"Odin og Folebenet\" actually invokes Odin. The idea that the charms have been Christianized and that the presence of Baldur has been substituted by \"The Lord\" or Jesus is expressed by Bang in another treatise, crediting communications with Bugge and the work of Grimm in the matter. Jacob Grimm had already pointed out the Christ-Balder identification in interpreting the Merseburg charm; Grimm seized on the idea that in the Norse language, \"White Christ (\"hvíta Kristr\")\" was a common epithet, just as Balder was known as the \"white Æsir-god\" \n\nAnother strikingly similar \"horse cure\" incantation is a 20th-century sample that hails the name of the ancient 11th-century Norwegian king Olaf II of Norway. The specimen was collected in Møre, Norway, where it was presented as for use in healing a bone fracture:\n\nSeveral Swedish analogues were given by Sophus Bugge and by Viktor Rydberg in writings published around the same time (1889). The following 17th-century spell was noted as a parallel to the Merseburg horse charm by both of them:\n\nAnother example (from Kungelf's Dombok, 1629) was originally printed by Arcadius:\n\nA spell beginning \"S(anc)te Pär och wår Herre de wandrade på en wäg (from Sunnerbo hundred, Småland 1746) was given originally by Johan Nordlander.\n\nA very salient example, though contemporary to Bugge's time, is one that invokes Odin's name:\n\nA Danish parallel noted by A. Kuhn : is the following:\n\nGrimm also exemplified a Scottish charm (for people, not horses) as a salient remnant of the Merseburg type of charm. This healing spell for humans was practiced in the Shetlands (which has strong Scandinavian ties and where the Norn language used to be spoken). The practice involved tying a \"wresting thread\" of black wool with nine knots around the sprained leg of a person, and in an inaudible voice pronouncing the following:\nAlexander Macbain (who also supplies a presumably reconstructed Gaelic \"Chaidh Criosd a mach/Air maduinn mhoich\" to the first couplet of \"The Lord rade\" charm above) also records a version of a horse spell which was chanted while \"at the same time tying a worsted thread on the injured limb.\"\n\nMacbain goes on to quote another Gaelic horse spell, one beginning \"Chaidh Brìde mach..\" from \"Cuairtear nan Gleann\" (July, 1842) that invokes St. Bride as a \"he\" rather than \"she\", plus additional examples suffering from corrupted text.\n\nThere have been repeated suggestions that healing formula of the Second Merseburg Charm may well have deep Indo-European roots. A parallel has been drawn between this charm and an example in Vedic literature, an incantation from the 2nd millennium BCE found in the \"Atharvaveda\", hymn IV, 12:\n\nHowever, the Rohani (Rōhaṇī ) here apparently does not signify a deity, but rather a healing herb; in fact, just an alternate name for the herb arundathi mentioned in the same strain.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32824098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32824098", "title": "Miller Atlas", "text": "Miller Atlas\n\nThe Miller Atlas, also known as Lopo Homem-Reineis Atlas, is a richly illustrated Portuguese atlas dated from 1519, including a dozen charts. It is a joint work of the cartographers Lopo Homem, Pedro Reinel and Jorge Reinel, and illustrated by miniaturist António de Holanda. \n\nThe regions represented are the North Atlantic Ocean, Northern Europe, the Azores Archipelago, Madagascar, the Indian Ocean, Indonesia, China Sea, the Moluccas, Brazil and the Mediterranean Sea. It was acquired in 1897 for the National Library of France by the librarian Bénigne Emmanuel Clement Miller, hence the name Miller Atlas. \n\nIt stands out for details of the map 'Terra Brasilis', less than twenty years after the landing of Pedro Alvares Cabral. It is thought to have been an offering from King Manuel I of Portugal to Francis I of France. The charts included and its authoring raised great controversy among scholars, particularly a world map closed to the Pacific Ocean, which has been interpreted as an attempt to dissuade the circumnavigation that Ferdinand Magellan then prepared in Seville, in the court of Charles I of Spain.\n\nIts title page bears a later inscription with the arms of Catherine de Medici with the text, \"Hec est universi orbis ad hanc usqz diem cogniti / tabula quam ego Lupus homo Cosmographus / in clarissima Ulisipone civitate Anno domini nostri / Millessimo quigentessimo decimo nono jussu / Emanuelis incliti lusitanie Regis collatis pluribs / aliis tam vetustorum qz recentiorum tabulis mag / na industria et dilligenti labore depinxi.\"\n"}
{"id": "10505443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10505443", "title": "Playfair Football Annual", "text": "Playfair Football Annual\n\nPlayfair Football Annual is a compact football annual. It is a reference book primarily covering football in England, Scotland and Europe.\nIt was first published in 1948. It was last published in 2012/13.\n"}
{"id": "203637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203637", "title": "Project Management Body of Knowledge", "text": "Project Management Body of Knowledge\n\nThe Project Management Body of Knowledge is a set of standard terminology and guidelines (a body of knowledge) for project management. The body of knowledge evolves over time and is presented in \"A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge\" (the \"Guide to the PMBOK\" or the Guide), a book whose sixth edition was released in 2017. The Guide is a document resulting from work overseen by the Project Management Institute (PMI), which offers the CAPM and PMP certifications.\n\nMuch of \"the PMBOK Guide\" is unique to project management e.g. critical path method and work breakdown structure (WBS). \"The PMBOK Guide\" also overlaps with general management regarding planning, organising, staffing, executing and controlling the operations of an organisation. Other management disciplines which overlap with the PMBOK Guide include financial forecasting, organisational behaviour, management science, budgeting and other planning methods.\n\nEarlier versions of the \"PMBOK Guide\" were recognized as standards by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) which assigns standards in the United States (ANSI/PMI 99-001-2008) and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE 1490-2011).\n\nThe evolution of the \"PMBOK Guide\" is reflected in editions of the Guide. The Guide was first published by the Project Management Institute (PMI) in 1996. That document was to some extent based on earlier work that began with a white paper published in 1983 called the \"Ethics, Standards, and Accreditation Committee Final Report.\" The second edition was published in 2000.\n\nIn 2004, the \"PMBOK Guide — Third Edition\" was published with major changes from the previous editions. The \"Fourth edition\" was published in 2008. The Fifth Edition\" was released in 2013.\n\nThe latest English-language version of \"The PMBOK Guide — The Sixth Edition was released in September 2017.\"\n\n\"The PMBOK Guide\" is intended to be a \"subset of the project management body of knowledge that is generally recognized as a good practice. 'Generally recognized' means the knowledge and practices described are applicable to most projects most of the time and there is a consensus about their value and usefulness. 'Good practice' means there is a general agreement that the application of the knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques can enhance the chance of success over many projects.\" This means that sometimes the \"latest\" project management trends, often promoted by consultants, may not be part of the latest version of \"The PMBOK Guide\".\n\nHowever, the 6th Edition of the PMBOK Guide now includes an \"Agile Practice Guide\"\n\n\"The PMBOK Guide\" is process-based, meaning it describes work as being accomplished by processes. This approach is consistent with other management standards such as ISO 9000 and the Software Engineering Institute's CMMI. Processes overlap and interact throughout a project or its various phases.\n\n\nA Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge — Sixth Edition provides guidelines for managing individual projects and defines project management related concepts. It also describes the project management life cycle and its related processes, as well as the project life cycle. and for the first time it includes an \"Agile Practice Guide\".\n\nThe PMBOK as described in the Guide recognizes 49 processes that fall into five basic process groups and ten knowledge areas that are typical of most projects, most of the time.\n\nThe five \"process groups\" are:\n\nThe ten \"knowledge areas\", each of which contains some or all of the project management processes, are:\n\n\nEach of the ten knowledge areas contains the processes that need to be accomplished within its discipline in order to achieve effective project management. Each of these processes also falls into one of the five process groups, creating a matrix structure such that every process can be related to one knowledge area and one process group.\n\nWhile the \"PMBOK Guide\" is meant to offer a general guide to manage most projects most of the time, there are currently three official extensions: \n\nThe PMBOK is a widely accepted standard in project management, however there are alternatives to the PMBOK standard, and PMBOK does have its critics. One thrust of critique has come from the critical chain developers and followers (e.g. Eliyahu M. Goldratt and Lawrence P. Leach), as opposed to critical path method adherents. The PMBOK Guide section on Project Time Management does indicate Critical Chain as an alternative method to Critical Path. \n\nA second strand of criticism originates in Lean Construction. This approach emphasises the lack of two way communication in the PMBOK model and offers an alternative which emphasises a language/action perspective and continual improvement in the planning process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50255861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50255861", "title": "Retention schedule", "text": "Retention schedule\n\nA retention schedule is a listing of organizational information types, or series of information in a manner which facilitates the understanding and application of the identified and approved retention period, and other information retention aspects.\n\nRetention schedules are an important aspect of records management. Many organizations are subject to rules and regulations (at the local, state or federal level) that govern for how long they are required to keep records before they can safely dispose of them. Holding onto records for longer than required can expose the organization to unnecessary liability, since such records are discoverable during lawsuits.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1456002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1456002", "title": "Road to Rio", "text": "Road to Rio\n\nRoad to Rio is a 1947 American semi-musical comedy film directed by Norman Z. McLeod and starring Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, and Dorothy Lamour. Written by Edmund Beloin and Jack Rose, the film is about two inept vaudevillians who stow away on a Brazilian-bound ocean liner and foil a plot by a sinister hypnotist to marry off her niece to a greedy fortune hunter. \"Road to Rio\" was the fifth of the \"Road to …\" series.\n\nScat Sweeney and Hot Lips Barton, two out-of-work musicians, travel the United States trying to find work and stay away from girls. After running from state to state, each time running because of a girl, they try their luck in Louisiana.\n\nThey stow away on board a Rio-bound ship, after accidentally starting some fires at a circus. They then get mixed up with the distraught Lucia, who first thanks them, then unexpectedly turns them over to the ship's captain. Unbeknownst to both of them, Lucia is being hypnotized by her crooked guardian, Catherine Vail. Vail plans to marry Lucia to her brother so she can control her and a set of \"papers.\"\n\nAfter a series of misadventures, including sneaking off the boat, recruiting a few local musicians, and the boys trying to escape with Lucia only to have Vail hypnotize her again and slap them both, Vail decides to do away with the boys permanently. She hypnotizes both of them and tries to get them to kill each other in a duel, but it fails. Scat and Hot Lips finally figure things out and the boys head for the ceremony in order to stop the wedding and to help catch the crooks. Upon finding the \"papers\", which Scat reads, when Hot Lips asks what they are about, Scat tears them up and looks into the camera, saying, \"The world must \"never\" know.\"\n\nLater on, Scat is dismayed to see that Lucia loves Hot Lips and not him, but upon peeking through a keyhole, he sees Hot Lips hypnotizing her.\n\nHope's frequent sidekick Jerry Colonna has a cameo as the leader of a cavalry charging to the rescue of Bing and Bob, as the film cuts away to the galloping horses periodically. All is resolved before he can arrive, leading Colonna to point out:\n\nFilmed from January to March 1947, the film was financed by Bing, Bob Hope, and Paramount. It produced $4.5 million in rental income in its initial release period in the United States and was placed sixth in the top-grossing films of 1947. The critics liked it, with \"The New York Times\" saying in its review of February 19, 1948, inter alia: \"With Bing Crosby and Bob Hope on the tramp again in “Road to Rio,” recklessly scattering jokes and rescuing perennial girl friend Dorothy Lamour from dangerous hypnotic trances, there’s fun to be had at the Paramount. Maybe this is not the funniest picture ever made; maybe it is not even quite as rewarding as some of those earlier journeys, but there are patches in this crazy quilt that are as good and, perhaps, even better than anything the boys have done before. They are traversing more of a rollercoaster highway than usual this time and so there are some tedious uphill pulls when the huffing and puffing is excessive and the results negligible. However, when they reach the top “Road to Rio” is irresistible... All that matters really is that “Road to Rio” is fairly well loaded with laughs.\"\n\"Variety\" reviewed it at a tradeshow and liked it too. \"This celluloid junket along the Road to Rio should find smooth riding to sturdy box-office. The pattern established by other Paramount “Road” pictures is solidly followed by Daniel Dare’s production to keep the laughs spilling and the paying customers satisfied.\"\n\n\nAnother song \"For What?\" by Burke and Van Heusen was written for the film but dropped from the released print.\n\nBing Crosby recorded four of the songs for Decca Records and these were also issued on a 78 rpm album titled \"Selections from Road to Rio\". “But Beautiful” and \"You Don't Have to Know the Language\" made fleeting appearances in the Billboard charts. Crosby's songs were also included in the Bing's Hollywood series.\n\nThe film's copyright was renewed in a timely manner by an associate of the film's owner. Originally registered for copyright as LP1171 with a declared publication date of August 25, 1947, the continuation of copyright was contingent upon renewal between the 27th and 28th anniversaries of that date. Renewal occurred July 25, 1975, number R610335. The film opened February 19, 1948, so the renewal is still timely even if that later date were considered publication date.\n\nThe copyright is now scheduled to run until 95 years after the publication date (2042). The renewal form names as authors Hope Enterprises and Bing Crosby Enterprises, which were partners when the film was produced. As it turned out, the copyright (which never expired, and thus the film never entered the public domain) was reassigned to Columbia Pictures Television (CPT) — Columbia and LBS Communications (which formed the joint venture Colex Enterprises) assumed the rights to this film from Hope Enterprises, and re-released the film to television in the 1980s.\n\nToday, CPT and what is now FremantleMedia hold ancillary rights, with FremantleMedia holding the video license. Any DVD release from a company not licensed by FremantleMedia violates the copyright, which continues to credit CPT as the copyright holder, as evidenced by recent video releases by BCI Eclipse, and now, as of the present, Shout! Factory (under Fremantle's license).\n\nThe film was preserved by the UCLA Film & Television Archive.\n\n"}
{"id": "12481956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12481956", "title": "Roupell case", "text": "Roupell case\n\nThe Roupell case (1862) was a notorious English legal dispute that centred on legal documents alleged to have been forged by William Roupell and excited great public interest.\n\nWilliam Roupell was the illegitimate son of Richard Palmer Roupell who possessed extensive properties in London and the Home Counties. By 1853, William, who spent unwisely seeking to establish himself in fashionable society, was already in debt and launched a sequence of deceptions and forgeries, dishonestly to obtain much of his father's property. In particular, he forged a deed conveying Norbiton Estate to himself and then sold it to Mr Waite. Further, he destroyed his father's will, which had left much of his property to William's brother Richard, and forged a will leaving it to William's mother, with himself as executor. His father died in 1856 and in 1857 William was elected Liberal Party Member of Parliament for Lambeth.\n\nBy 1862, William was no longer able to service the mortgages that he had taken out on the misappropriated property and on 30 March destroyed some of his papers and fled to Spain. In August, his brother Richard visited him in Spain and William returned to England. He was recognised and arrested for fraud and forgery.\n\nRichard sued Waite for possession of Norbiton Estate, contending that he would have inherited it under his father's valid, but destroyed, will. The trial began at Guildford on 18 August 1862.\n\nShee opened Richard's case by presenting the background of the Roupell family property, William's financial difficulties and the alleged facts of the frauds and forgeries. Shee argued that the will must be a forgery as, purporting to be witnessed by William, William could not have been present to witness its execution on the said date. Shee called William who admitted the frauds and forgeries and his own perjury in the grant of probate of his father's estate. It was to have been Waite's defence that William was colluding with his brother Richard, possibly in return for some compensation, but the defence was never heard as the case settled, dividing the value of the estate between Waite and Richard Roupell.\n\nOn 24 September 1862, William appeared at the Old Bailey and pleaded guilty to the forgery. The judge, Mr Justice Byles, emphasising the seriousness of the offences, sentenced William to penal servitude for life.\n\nIn 1863, Richard again attempted to regain property in Great Warley, Essex by proving that mortgages on the property were invalid, having been obtained through forgery. William, still in custody but not in prison dress, again gave evidence of his own wrongdoing and various witnesses attested to Richard Palmer's careful business habits and his handwriting and signature. Forensic document examiner Charles Chabot gave expert evidence that the signature was not Richard Palmer's.\n\nThe judge, Mr Baron Channell, warned the jury as to the unreliability of William's testimony and put to them four questions:\n\nThe jury retired, \"The Times\" observing that they jury had a pile of shorthand notes about a foot in height that would overwhelm them and that the jury would probably be confused anyway. The jury returned after three hours, finding that the deed had not been signed in the presence of witnesses but unable to agree whether Richard Palmer had signed the deed at all. Further, the jury agreed that the will was a forgery but were unable to agree on the proof of Richard's rightful inheritance. Even after several hours' further deliberation, the jury were unable to agree.\n\nThough a retrial was mooted, the issue ultimately settled out of court. William was released on parole in September 1876. Richard spent the rest of his life attempting, largely unsuccessfully, to recover some of his lost fortune\n\n"}
{"id": "186349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186349", "title": "Science Museum Group", "text": "Science Museum Group\n\nThe Science Museum Group (SMG) is a collection of British museums, comprising:\n\n\nThe chairman of the group is Dame Mary Archer who was appointed by Prime Minister David Cameron for the four-year term from 2015 from 2018. Dame Mary Archer was reappointed as Chairman 2019–2022 in January 2018.\n\nThe term \"National Museum of Science and Industry\" had been in use as the Science Museum's subtitle since the early 1920s. The Board of Trustees of the Science Museum is the corporate body of SMG and was established under the National Heritage Act (1983) for the purpose of general management of the group. Prior to 1 April 2012 the group was known as the National Museum of Science and Industry (NMSI).\n\nThe National Railway Museum was established as a result of the transfer of the British Transport Commission’s railway collection to the Board of Trustees of the Science Museum. The National Science and Media Museum, formerly the National Media Museum, was established by the Science Museum in 1983. The Science Museum was run directly by HM Government until 1984, when the Board of Trustees was established and NMSI was then adopted as a corporate title for the entire organisation. At this point NMSI no longer operated as part of a central government department; instead, it now had the status of a non-departmental public body, operating within the public sector but separately from its associated sponsoring government department, the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. The Science Museum Group operates as a charity; it also has a wholly owned subsidiary trading company, \"NMSI Trading Limited\", which was established in 1988.\n\nFrom January 2012 the Science and Industry Museum in Manchester became part of the Science Museum Group.\n\nFrom 2017 Locomotion, The National Railway Museum at Shildon, became part of the Science Museum Group.\n\nThere were concerns that some of the Science Museum Group's museums would close under the 2013 Spending Review.\n\nThe Science Museum Group cares for 7.3 million objects from areas of science, technology, engineering, medicine, transport and media. The collection includes:\n\nThe following have been Directors of the National Museum of Science and Industry, the Science Museum and the Science Museum Group:\n\n\nThe following have separately been Directors of the NMSI:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51934895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51934895", "title": "Smith v. State (1980)", "text": "Smith v. State (1980)\n\nSmith v. State, Supreme Court of Alaska 614 P.2d 300 (1980), is a criminal case which distinguishes between the ALI test and the M'Naghten rule in an insanity defense.\n"}
{"id": "15919460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15919460", "title": "Social network analysis software", "text": "Social network analysis software\n\nSocial network analysis software (SNA software) is software which facilitates quantitative or qualitative analysis of social networks, by describing features of a network either through numerical or visual representation.\n\nNetworks can consist of anything from families, project teams, classrooms, sports teams, legislatures, nation-states, disease vectors, membership on networking websites like Twitter or Facebook, or even the Internet. Networks can consist of direct linkages between nodes or indirect linkages based upon shared attributes, shared attendance at events, or common affiliations. Network features can be at the level of individual nodes, dyads, triads, ties and/or edges, or the entire network. For example, node-level features can include network phenomena such as betweenness and centrality, or individual attributes such as age, sex, or income. SNA software generates these features from raw network data formatted in an edgelist, adjacency list, or adjacency matrix (also called sociomatrix), often combined with (individual/node-level) attribute data. Though the majority of network analysis software uses a plain text ASCII data format, some software packages contain the capability to utilize relational databases to import and/or store network features.\n\nVisual representations of social networks are important to understand network data and convey the result of the analysis. Visualization often also facilitates qualitative interpretation of network data. With respect to visualization, network analysis tools are used to change the layout, colors, size and other properties of the network representation.\n\nSome SNA software can perform predictive analysis. This includes using network phenomena such as a tie to predict individual level outcomes (often called peer influence or contagion modeling), using individual-level phenomena to predict network outcomes such as the formation of a tie/edge (often called homophily models) or particular type of triad, or using network phenomena to predict other network phenomena, such as using a triad formation at time 0 to predict tie formation at time 1.\n\nNetwork analysis software generally consists of either packages based on graphical user interfaces (GUIs), or packages built for scripting/programming languages.\n\nIn general, the GUI packages are easier to learn, while scripting tools are more powerful and extensible. Widely used, often open-sourced and well-documented GUI packages include EgoWeb 2.0 (open source), NetMiner, UCINet, Pajek (freeware), GUESS, ORA, Cytoscape, Gephi, NodeXL, Social Network Visualizer (SocNetV, free software), Meerkat (SNA), and muxViz (open source).\n\nPrivate GUI packages directed at business customers include: Arcade Analytics, Idiro SNA Plus, Keyhubs, KeyLines, KXEN, Keynetiq, Linkurious, MyNetworkmap, OrgAnalytix, Orgnet, and Polinode.\n\nCommonly used and well-documented scripting tools used for network analysis include: NetMiner with Python scripting engine, the statnet suite of packages for the R statistical programming language, igraph, which has packages for R and Python, muxViz (based on R statistical programming language and GNU Octave) for the analysis and the visualization of multilayer networks, the NetworkX library for Python, and the SNAP package for large-scale network analysis in C++ and Python. Though difficult to learn, some of these open source packages are growing much faster in terms of functionality and features than privately maintained software, and extensive documentation and tutorials are available.\n\nAll of the tools above contain visualization capabilities.\n\nClick the \"show\" link (next to \"Notes\") to expand the list.\n\n"}
{"id": "56605548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56605548", "title": "Staatsarchiv Ludwigsburg", "text": "Staatsarchiv Ludwigsburg\n\nThe Staatsarchiv Ludwigsburg (Ludwigsburg State Archives), located in Ludwigsburg, Germany, is a public institutional repository for roughly 680 state authorities within the District of Stuttgart, Germany.\n\nThe historical holdings come from the North Württemberg area. Notable holdings, unveiled through the process of denazification, include documents related to the holocaust (more than 500,000).\n\nThe archives also house the files of the Police Headquarters Stuttgart , the decorative folders and role books of the Staatstheater Stuttgart and all birth records of the Landesfrauenklinik Stuttgart (Stuttgart Women's State Hospital); the documents of the Teutonic Order, official books of the convent Ellwangen and documents of Ulm, Esslingen am Neckar, Heilbronn, and other former free imperial cities. The collections also include personnel files of the Deutsche Reichsbahn (the German National Railway) and the Deutsche Bundesbahn (the German Federal Railway) from the Reichsbahndirektion/Bundesbahndirektion Stuttgart (Federal Railway Directorate).\n\nThe Ludwigsburg State Archives relocated, in 1995, from a castle to the Arsenal Barracks and Armory located in the center of Ludwigsburg.\nBoth buildings were mechanically and structurally re-purposed to meet the safekeeping requirements of modern archives. The buildings are connected by an underground corridor, through which a transport system delivers documents to researchers in the reading room.\n\nAs part of the Baden-Württemberg administrative reorganization of 2005, Staatsarchiv Ludwigsburg has been a department of the newly created Landesarchiv Baden-Württemberg (Baden-Württemberg State Archives), which was inaugurated January 1, 2005. Staatsarchiv Ludwigsburg is one of eight constituent departments of Landesarchiv Baden-Württemberg . Six of the eight departments have an archival mission and two have a service mission.\n\nArchive departments:\n\nService departments\n\nThe Landesarchiv is a supreme state authority in the portfolio of the Ministry of Science, Research and Art in Baden-Wuerttemberg .\n\n"}
{"id": "14612819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14612819", "title": "Sunday Times Fast Track 100", "text": "Sunday Times Fast Track 100\n\nThe Sunday Times Fast Track 100 is a list published annually in December in partnership with The Sunday Times newspaper in the UK. It ranks Britain's fastest growing privately held companies by sales growth over the last 3 years. The list is produced by Fast Track, an Oxford based research company, and sponsored by the Virgin Group.\n\nThe seventeenth Sunday Times Virgin Fast Track 100 was published on 8 December 2013.\n\nThe Fast Track 100 is generally promoted as the definitive guide to the fastest growing privately held companies in the UK. Richard Branson is quoted as saying \"Fast Track has become the definitive barometer of growth companies\" However a number of limitations exists which mean that the list may not contain information on many fast growing companies. Most important of these is the reliance on historical data. Because Fast Track only deals in publicly available information generally from published accounts, the league table refers to data that is sometimes as much as 10 months out of date.\n\nOn the other hand, this method ensures objectivity and has led to the early identification of a number of household names, including Carphone Warehouse, British Home Stores and Travelex.\n\nFor entry to the 2013 Fast Track 100 companies were required to be:\n\n\nFast Track 100 is one of 7 business lists of private companies produced by Fast Track and published in the Sunday Times:\n"}
{"id": "373271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373271", "title": "Tower Gateway DLR station", "text": "Tower Gateway DLR station\n\nTower Gateway is a Docklands Light Railway (DLR) station in the City of London and is located near the Tower of London and Tower Bridge. It adjoins the tracks to Fenchurch Street station and is located on the site of a former station called Minories. Tower Gateway is within London fare zone 1.\n\nIt is a short walk from both Tower Hill Underground station and Fenchurch Street. Access at street level from the Minories is via escalator, stairs or lift at the western end of the station. A pedestrian crossing connects the station with Tower Hill station, its closest London Underground connection. A narrow secondary staircase entrance at the eastern end of the platform, improved considerably in the early 2000s, descends to Mansell Street. It serves the eastern edge of the City of London financial district and development around St Katharine Docks.\n\nIt was opened in 1987 as the western terminus of the initial DLR system and the station closest to central London.\n\nThe underground extension to Bank, which opened in 1991, diverges from the original route between Tower Gateway and Shadwell, the next station to the east. It dives down a steep ramp not far from the eastern end of the platforms, from which it is clearly visible. Tower Gateway is the terminus for the less busy service to Beckton. Journeys to other branches of the DLR normally require a change.\n\nIn keeping with the DLR's original basic lightweight philosophy, Tower Gateway is a simple elevated terminus. As built it had two tracks and a cross-over. When the extension to Bank opened, its importance was substantially reduced. Before reconstruction it had a fairly narrow central platform, and a single track leading from the main route to a set of points immediately prior to the platforms.\n\nFurther major alterations began on 30 June 2008. The station reopened on 2 March 2009, rebuilt as a single-track terminus to enable three-car trains with a platform on each side of the train, one for arriving passengers and the other for departures (the Spanish solution).\n\nA Transport Supporting Paper released by the office of the Mayor of London envisages the closure of Tower Gateway DLR station and the branch serving it, with a replacement interchange being provided via new platforms at Tower Hill station. The reasoning is given that currently, 90 per cent of DLR City passengers use Bank station, but only 75 per cent of services go there; this would increase service to Bank from 23tph to 30tph, thereby unlocking more capacity on the Bank branch.\n\nLondon Buses services serves the station, key routes 42 and 78, local routes 100 and RV1 and night route N551 serve the station.\n\n"}
{"id": "21506530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21506530", "title": "Trictionary", "text": "Trictionary\n\nTrictionary (1982) is a 400-page trilingual English/Spanish/Chinese translation wordbook. It covers about 3,000 words in each language. The book was compiled by anonymous volunteers, mostly younger students from New York City whose native language was English, Spanish or Chinese. The compilation was done, as \"The New Yorker\" reports (10 May 1982) \"by the spare-time energy of some 150 young people from the neighborhood\" aged between 10 and 15, two afternoons a week over three years. The project was sponsored by the National Endowment for the Humanities and work was done at the Chatham Square branch of the New York Public Library. The original idea was developed by Jane Shapiro, a teacher of English as a Second Language at Junior High School 65, helped by Mary Scherbatoskoy of ARTS (Art Resources for Teachers and Students).\n\nTom McArthur, in his 1986 book \"Worlds of Reference\", thought of the project as a future model for reference work creation: group collaboration, volunteer work and no single or named author. \"I am considering something much more radically interesting: turning students on occasion into once-in-a-lifetime Samuel Johnsons and Noah Websters.\" McArthur's observation was prescient, the project is now seen as an early model of social information processing.\n\n"}
{"id": "30370212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30370212", "title": "Trust on first use", "text": "Trust on first use\n\nTrust on first use (TOFU), or trust upon first use (TUFU), is a security model used by client software which needs to establish a trust relationship with an unknown or not-yet-trusted endpoint. In a TOFU model, the client will try to look up the identifier, usually some kind of public key, in its local trust database. If no identifier exists yet for the endpoint, the client software will either prompt the user to determine if the client should trust the identifier or it will simply trust the identifier which was given and record the trust relationship into its trust database. If a different identifier is received in subsequent connections to the endpoint the client software will consider it to be untrusted.\n\nThe TOFU approach can be used when connecting to arbitrary or unknown endpoints which do not have a trusted third party such as a certificate authority. For example, the SSH protocol is designed to issue a prompt the first time the client connects to an unknown or not-yet-trusted endpoint. Other implementations of TOFU can be found in HTTP Public Key Pinning in which browsers will always accept the first public key returned by the server and with HTTP Strict Transport Security in which browsers will obey the redirection rule for the duration of 'age' directive.\n\nThe single largest strength of any TOFU-style model is that a human being must initially validate every interaction. A common application of this model is the use of ssh-rpc 'bot' users between computers, whereby public keys are distributed to a set of computers for automated access from centralized hosts. The TOFU aspect of this application forces a sysadmin (or other trusted user) to validate the remote server's identity upon first connection.\n\nThe largest weakness of any TOFU-style model is that a human being must initially validate every interaction, which does not scale infinitely, and can quickly scale beyond the capabilities of any group of people using and managing computers with a need for trusted and secure protocols. People tend to approve without verification, not to mention the increased surface area for human error.\n\nA compromise between security and scalability of use has been proposed by Daniel Gultsch the developer of the XMPP client Conversations. It is call Blind Trust Before Verification, it consists in not checking the key on first contact but to check after the user made a manual check and the key changed.\n\nThe first known formal use of the term TOFU or TUFU was by CMU researchers Dan Wendlandt, David Andersen, and Adrian Perrig in their research paper \"Perspectives: Improving SSH-Style Host Authentication With Multi-Path Probing\" published in 2008 at the Usenix Annual Technical Conference.\n\nMoxie Marlinspike mentioned Perspectives and the term TOFU the DEF CON 18 proceedings, with reference to comments made by Dan Kaminsky, during the panel discussion \"An Open Letter, A Call to Action\". An audience suggestion was raised implying the superiority of the SSH Public key infrastructure (PKI) model, over the SSL/TLS PKI model - whereby Moxie replied:\n\n\nThe topics of trust, validation, non-repudiation are fundamental to all work in the field of cryptography and digital security.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2550301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2550301", "title": "Vanity domain", "text": "Vanity domain\n\nIn the Domain Name System (DNS), a vanity domain is a domain name whose purpose is to express the individuality of the person on whose behalf it is registered. This contrasts with domain names which resolve to an organisation (e.g. a company) or a service that organisation offers. Vanity domains may be compared with vanity car registration plates, which similarly identify their owner as an individual and not just someone relying on another organisation's services.\n\nA subdomain of an ISP's domain that is aliased to an individual user account is a vanity domain. Other definitions include:\nThese uses apply primarily to regular domain names registered at the highest allowed level rather than subdomains (although, technically speaking, a second-level domain is actually a subdomain of its top-level domain).\n\nBecause vanity domains are operated for or on behalf of individuals, they typically will not offer the full complement of services an organisational domain name (or rather, the host that it points to) would be expected to honour; for example, the DNS record may contain only an MX record identifying a mail server accepting e-mail for that domain (which may itself be an e-mail forwarding server) and an A record identifying a shared web hosting service only offering HTTP (which may itself be a URL redirection service).\n\nAs well as being easily remembered, vanity domains (especially when registered at the highest level allowed by the registrar) offer the advantage of personal mobility; they continue to be associated with a person even when that person switches service providers.\n\nA top-level domain can become part of a vanity URL. Taking advantage of countries that do not ask for proof of residence to register their country-specific TLDs (Top Level Domains) can allow a user to incorporate the two or three letters following the dot, using them to help spell out the desired name, word or phrase.\n\n"}
{"id": "49858487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49858487", "title": "Vasily Khudyakov", "text": "Vasily Khudyakov\n\nVasily Grigorievich Khudyakov (Russian: Василий Григорьевич Худяков; 24 December 1825, Akshuat, Ulyanovsk Oblast - 26 July 1871, Saint Petersburg) was a Russian history, portrait and genre painter.\n\nHe began his studies at the Stroganov Moscow State University of Arts and Industry, then spent almost two years at the Moscow School of Painting, Sculpture and Architecture (MSPSA). His mentor there was Professor , who invited him to be an assistant for decorative work that was being done in the entrance hall of Kremlin Palace. Some of his paintings were shown at the Imperial Academy of Arts, where they received a silver medal.\nIn 1848, he went to Saint Petersburg and audited classes at the Academy. In his rush to be named a \"Free Artist\", he accepted a silver medal and passed up the opportunity to compete for a gold one. After that, he mostly painted portraits on commission. In 1851, upon completing one of Dean Avraam Melnikov, he was named an \"Academician\". \n\nAmong other notable works at this time were \"Finnish Smugglers\", one of the first two works purchased by Pavel Tretyakov for his gallery, and \"Persecution of Christians in the East\", purchased by Tsar Nicholas I as a gift to King Otto of Greece.\n\nIn 1856, he visited France and Italy; staying in Paris, Rome and Naples for about four years while continuing to execute commissions for members of the Russian nobility. On the basis of these works, he was named a Professor by the Academy in 1860. After returning, he became a teacher at the MSPSA. In 1862, he moved to Saint Petersburg, where he continued to exhibit frequently. He died of cholera in 1871.\n"}
{"id": "39344301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39344301", "title": "Vatican Historical Museum", "text": "Vatican Historical Museum\n\nThe Vatican Historical Museum () is one of the sections of the Vatican Museums. It was founded in 1973 at the behest of Pope Paul VI, and was initially hosted in environments under the Square Garden. In 1987 it was moved to the main floor of the Apostolic Palace of the Lateran and opened in March 1991.\n\nThe Vatican Historical Museum has a unique collection of portraits of the Popes from the sixteenth century to date, the memorable items of the Papal Military Corps of the 16–17th centuries and old religious paraphernalia related to rituals of the papacy. Also on display on the lower floor are the \"papamobili\" (Popemobiles); carriages and motorcars of Popes and Cardinals, including the first cars used by Popes.\n\nThe Lateran Palace, which is next to the Basilica of Saint John Lateran to its left within the courtyard of the church with a common entry gate, is a large apartment complex of the Pope. Domenico Fontana was the architect of this palace which was built to his design in 1586. Right at the entrance the staircase is a massive and impressive structure with the ceiling decorated with frescoes. It had been refurbished by Pope Paul IV into ten halls; each of these halls had frescoes of the Mannerist Age. The hall known as the Conciliation, and was provided with allegories related to the papacy of Sixtus V. The other halls were named Constantine, Hall of Apostles, Emperors Room, Popes Room and so forth. The fresco decorations were on themes of the History of Rome, episodes of the Bible related to Daniel, David, Solomon, Samuel and others, and also related to the Gospel. Several colourful tapestries and Goblins added to the aesthetic elegance of the halls. Before the History Museum decided to relocate here to a more luxurious locale, none of the rooms had been allowed to be used for any general public purpose. Since 1991, these rooms have been exclusively used as exhibition or display rooms for the exhibits moved from the Vatican Museums.\n\nThe museum has been arranged into two wings. The principal wing is the museum of all artistic and historic importance starting with the paintings of the history of the Papal States, portraits of Popes till date, memorabilia of the Papal Military Corps including the navy, documents related to ceremonial orders of Popes, the Papal household items, and various ceremonial regalia and religious vessels and insignia not in use.\n\nThe second wing is an annex wing on the ground floor where the \"papamobili\" are on display; these consist of decorated carriages, saddles, sedans, wagons and the first cars used by the Popes.\n"}
{"id": "38849102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38849102", "title": "WikiLeaks Party", "text": "WikiLeaks Party\n\nThe WikiLeaks Party was a micro political party in Australia. The party was created in part to support Julian Assange's failed bid for a Senate seat in Australia in the 2013 election, where they won 0.66% of the national vote. The WikiLeaks Party national council consisted of: Julian Assange, Matt Watt, Gail Malone, John Shipton, Omar Todd and Gerry Georgatos.\n\nJulian Assange's decision to run for the Australian Senate was announced via the WikiLeaks Twitter account in March 2012. The intent to form a WikiLeaks Party was announced by Assange in late 2012, and Assange stated that the party was to be a vehicle for his candidacy for a seat in the Australian Senate in the 2013 election.\n\nOn 23 March 2013 the WikiLeaks Party submitted its registrations to the Australian Electoral Commission. The party had over 1300 fee-paying members. The application was accepted and the party was registered as a political party on 2 July 2013.\n\nThe party was involved in Glenn Druery's Minor Party Alliance around the 2013 federal election, but left after deciding not to preference as per Druery's advice.\n\nAssange is a native of Australia. Since July 2012 Assange has lived in the Embassy of Ecuador, London, having been granted political asylum by Ecuador in an attempt to avoid arrest by UK authorities. Assange is unable to leave the Embassy without being arrested by the Police Forces of the United Kingdom acting on an extradition order placed on him to travel to Sweden to answer allegations of rape and sexual molestation of two Swedish women. Assange fought the extradition order in the UK Court system from December 2010, however, subsequently both the UK High Court of Justice and the UK Supreme Court ruled that the extradition order had been lawfully made and duly dismissed Assange's request for an appeal against the extradition warrant.\n\nThe party fielded candidates for the Australian Senate in the states of New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia. Two polling experts rated the WikiLeaks Party's electoral chances as \"highly unlikely\".\n\nChristine Milne, leader of the Australian Greens, was positive about the emergence of the WikiLeaks Party as part of a move away from Australia's two-party system. However, the Greens said they had no intention of stepping aside for Assange in the Victoria Senate election. Similarly, the Socialist Equality Party reaffirmed its intention to defend Assange against persecution but refused to endorse the WikiLeaks Party, stating that this position represents the \"interests of the working class\".\n\nProfessor Anne Twomey, an expert on Australian constitutional law at the University of Sydney, suggested that if Assange were elected, this could be found invalid in the event of a legal challenge if a court ruled that his relationship with Ecuador breached the prohibition against the election of people \"under any [acknowledgement] of allegiance, obedience or adherence to a foreign power\".\n\nThe party's campaign was thrown into turmoil just weeks before the election when members objected strongly to the party's voting preferences - see single transferable vote. In New South Wales, a fascist group was placed above the Greens, while in Western Australia the National Party was placed above Greens Senator Scott Ludlam, a strong supporter of WikiLeaks and Assange. The WikiLeaks Party blamed an unspecified \"admin error\" and announced an independent review would be held after the election. When National Council members complained, CEO John Shipton attempted to subvert them and create a new power base. Leslie Cannold, Assange's running mate in Victoria, resigned along with many volunteers and members of the National Council.\n\nThe party published a short, inconclusive review by a party member five months later. Former member Gary Lord responded with a comprehensive 20-page report fully examining the party's failures.\n\nAssange failed in his bid for a Senate seat. It is difficult to separate out his personal vote under the single transferable vote system. The party received 33,683 votes in Victoria from electors who voted the WikiLeaks ticket, with Assange at its head, and Assange received an additional 8,016 first preference votes from electors who numbered the candidates individually. The party as a whole received 1.24%, the 7th highest primary vote in Victoria, and reached the 26th round of ballot before being eliminated without the opportunity to receive preference flows. The party received 88,100 votes or 0.66% nationally but only contested seats in three States. Gerry Georgatos came closest to winning a Senate seat for the WikiLeaks Party, reaching the 19th round with only seven rounds to go before being eliminated, also before any opportunity to receive preference flows. He fell about 3,000 primary votes short of being elected, but given that the party received only 9,767 primary votes in Western Australia, this was a large gap.\n\nThe WikiLeaks Party candidates for the 2013 election were as follows:\n\nVictoria\n\nNew South Wales\n\nWestern Australia\nThe WikiLeaks Party subscribes to a libertarian ideology. Specific policies for the 2013 election included: introduction of a national shield law to protect a reporter's right not to reveal a source and; \"promoting free information and protection for whistle-blowers.\"\n\nCEO John Shipton stated that \"The party stands for what Julian espouses — transparency and accountability in government and of course human rights.\" Assange himself has said the WikiLeaks Party would combine \"a small, centralised leadership with maximum grassroots involvement,\" and that the party would advance WikiLeaks' objectives of promoting openness in government and politics, and that it would combat intrusions on individual privacy. The Voice of Russia stated that Shipton in an interview \"praised Russian diplomatic skills and Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Shipton and the WikiLeaks Party believe that the Russian President and Foreign Ministry are forces for peace.\"\n\nAssange has been reported as saying that he envisions the WikiLeaks Party as bound together by unswerving commitment to the core principles of civic courage nourished by understanding and truthfulness and the free flow of information, and one that will practise in politics what WikiLeaks has done in the field of information. The Constitution of the WikiLeaks Party lists objectives, including: the protection of human rights and freedoms; transparency of governmental and corporate action, policy and information; recognition of the need for equality between generations; and support of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander self-determination. The WikiLeaks Political party has criticised the Telstra Group's relationship with the FBI and US Department of Justice.\n\nIn December 2013 a delegation from the party, including its chairman John Shipton, visited Syria and met with President Bashar al-Assad with the goals of demonstrating \"solidarity with the Syrian people and their nation\" and improving the party's understanding of the country's civil war. In a statement issued shortly before the visit, the WikiLeaks Party stated that it opposed outside intervention in the war, supported a negotiated peace process, and described reports of the Ghouta chemical attack by forces loyal to al-Assad in August 2013 as being \"unsubstantiated\" and comparable to the concerns which were raised over the Iraqi weapons of mass destruction program prior to the Iraq War. The meeting with President al-Assad was attended by National Council members John Shipton, Gail Malone and by former National Council member Jamal Daoud.\n\nThe meeting with Assad was criticized by the Australian Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and many WikiLeaks supporters. Shipton stated that the meeting with al-Assad was \"just a matter of good manners\", and that the delegation had also met with members of the Syrian opposition. These meetings with the opposition have not been verified. Former National Council member and advocate for Shias in Sydney, Jamal Daoud (resigned from the Greens over differences), who accompanied Shipton on the trip, expressed support for Assad on Twitter and on his blog.\n\nThe WikiLeaks Party contested the April 5 re-run of the disqualified 2013 Senate election (Western Australia component). The prior year's lead Senate Candidate Gerry Georgatos recommended to the National Council that he step down for Julian Assange to take the lead Senate position for Western Australia and hopefully get elected. But in February the National Council learned that Julian Assange would be ineligible to contest. Gerry Georgatos rejected continuing on as the endorsed candidate and asked that the membership be surveyed as to their preferred candidate. More than 500 WikiLeaks members completed the survey and Gerry Georgatos was endorsed as the lead candidate with West TV producer Tibor Meszaros at number 2 and journalist Lucy Nicol at number 3. But one hour before the close of nominations Gerry Georgatos withdrew for \"unforeseen personal reasons\" and Tibor Meszaros was consequently elevated to lead candidate. On April 14, the AEC draw for the ballot of 33 parties (77 candidates) drew The WikiLeaks Party first.\n\nThe WikiLeaks Party was deregistered by the Australian Electoral Commission on 23 July 2015, under s.137(4) of the \"Electoral Act\": failure to respond to notice under s.137(1).\n\n"}
