{"id": "226262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226262", "title": "1687 in literature", "text": "1687 in literature\n\nThis article lists of the literary events and publications in 1687.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "172094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172094", "title": "1952 in film", "text": "1952 in film\n\nThe year 1952 in film involved some significant events.\n\n\nAcademy Awards:\nGolden Globe Awards:\n\nGrand Prix (Cannes Film Festival):\n\nGolden Lion (Venice Film Festival):\n\nGolden Bear (Berlin Film Festival):\n\nU.S.A. unless stated\n\nA\nB\nC\nD\nE-F\nG-H\nI\nJ\nK-L\nM\nN\nO\nP-Q\nR\nS\nT\nU-V\nW-Z\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51738064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51738064", "title": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Catania", "text": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Catania\n\nThe Accademia di Belle Arti di Catania is an academy of fine arts located in Catania, Sicily. It was founded in 1967 and started its activities in January 1968. As of 2013, it was the third academy of fine arts in Italy for number of students.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "55702280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55702280", "title": "American Bronze Company", "text": "American Bronze Company\n\nThe American Bronze Company aka American White Bronze Company was a company that produced, and sold through trade catalogs, zinc (known as “white bronze”)statues and memorials. It was founded in about 1885, initially as a subsidiary of the Monumental Bronze Company. In 1892 the foundry, owned by Paul Cornell, was located in Grand Crossing, Illinois where Cornell owned a watch company. Around 1900 the company moved to in Chicago. The firm is best known for producing cemetery monuments and Civil War monuments, for both the Union and Confederate causes. \n\n“In the wake of the American Civil War, memorials to citizen soldiers who died during the conflict proliferated across the national landscape. Many of these monuments were replicated over and over using available mechanical processes to reproduce sculpture.” The American Bronze Company produced many of them.\n\nThe company, by then known as the American Art Bronze Foundry closed up during World War II.\n\n"}
{"id": "6301488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6301488", "title": "April's Shower", "text": "April's Shower\n\nApril's Shower is a 2003 romantic comedy film. The film stars Maria Cina, Trish Doolan, and Randall Batinkoff. Doolan also served as writer, producer, and director for the film. The film was actually released as early as 2003 at the Hamburg Gay and Lesbian Film Festival and was subsequently released at other gay-themed film festivals in cities around the world, including San Francisco, Charlotte, Copenhagen, Tampa, Detroit, Rochester, and Dallas. The film gained wide but limited release in January 2006.\n\n\"April's Shower\" begins with a group of people gathered for a wedding shower for April. At first, it seems to be a normal gathering for such an occasion but, as time goes on, secrets and stories begin to be revealed. Alex (Doolan) is a chef and a maid of honor at April's wedding. She ultimately reveals her true feelings which ends up taking an effect on everybody at the shower.\n\n\nIn a review for \"Out\", Justin W. Ravitz said that the film was drowned by histrionics and featured characters with \"sitcom personalities\". Referring to the storyline of a lesbian leaving her girlfriend for a heterosexual lifestyle, he said that the film was \"almost as insufferable as the real thing.\"\n"}
{"id": "46957595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46957595", "title": "Architecture of Albania", "text": "Architecture of Albania\n\nThe Architecture of Albania ( — ) is a reflection of Albania's historical and cultural heritage. The country's architecture was influenced by its location within the Mediterranean Basin and progressed over the course of history as it was once inhabited by numerous civilisations including the Illyrians, Ancient Greeks, Romans, Byzantines, Venetians, Ottomans as well as modern Austro-Hungarians and Italians. In addition, missionaries, invaders, colonisers and traders brought cultural changes that had a large profound effect on building styles as well as techniques.\n\nDuring classical antiquity, cities and towns in Albania have evolved from within the castle to include dwellings, religious and commercial structures, with constant redesigning of town squares and evolution of building techniques. Although there are prehistoric and classical structures in the country, which effectively begins with constructions from the Illyrians and Ancient Greeks such as in Byllis, Amantia, Phoenice, Apollonia, Butrint and Shkodër. With the extension of the Roman Empire in the Balkans, impressive Roman architecture was built throughout the country whereas it is best exemplified in Durrës, Tirana and Butrint.\n\nAfter the fall of the Western Roman Empire, Albania became an integral part of the Byzantine Empire. They have left a legacy, most visible in the cities and surroundings of Korçë, Berat, Voskopojë and Gjirokastër, in the form of castles, churches and monasteries with grandiose wealth of visible murals and frescos. The country also has many surviving monuments from the Ottoman period. They left their mark with the many mosques and other buildings they constructed, that contributed to make Berat and Gjirokastër an UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th century, Albanian medieval towns underwent urban transformations by various Austro-Hungarian and Italian architects, giving them the appearance of western European cities; this can be particularly seen in Tirana and Korçë. They introduced architectural styles such as Historicism, Art Nouveau, Neo-Renaissance and Neoclassicism.\n\nFollowing the establishment of communism in Albania, the country's architecture development was radically changed by the socialist ideology and numerous historic and sacred buildings across Albania were demolished. Many socialist-styled complexes, wide roads and factories were constructed, while squares in major towns were redesigned.\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) list of World Heritage Sites include currently two sites in Albania. These sites include the historic centres of Berat and Gjirokastër and Butrint. The Amphitheatre of Durrës, Royal Illyrian Tombs of Selcë e Poshtme, Archaeological site of Apollonia and Castle of Bashtova are inscribed on the country's tentative list.\n\nThe preservation and protection of cultural and historical heritage sites in Albania is entrusted to the Institute of Monuments of Albania, which were founded on 2 July 1965 by the Ministry of Culture.\n\nAlbania is a Mediterranean country, lying to the east of Italy, across the Adriatic Sea. Although the country occupies the southwestern portion of the Balkan Peninsula, bordered by Montenegro to the northwest, Kosovo to the northeast, the Republic of Macedonia to the east and Greece to the south and southeast. It has a varied and contrasting topography with high mountains, rocky shores, coastal wetlands, sandy beaches, steep canyons and gorges and islands of various shapes and sizes.\n\nIn terms of topography, the country encompasses coastal plains in the west to the Albanian Alps in the north, the Sharr Mountains in the northeast, Skanderbeg Mountains in the center, Korab Mountains in the east, Pindus Mountains in the southeast and Ceraunian Mountains in the southwest along the Albanian Riviera and Ionian Sea Coast.\n\nThe country experiences mostly mediterranean climate with continental influences. That means that the climate is characterised by mild winters and hot, dry summers. The warmest areas of the country are along the west, where climate is profoundly impacted by the Mediterranean Sea. The coldest parts of the country are at the north and east, where snowy forested climate is prevalent.\n\nDuring the Iron Age, Albania was originally home to the Illyrians and Ancient Greeks. Following the centuries, it was subsequently conquered and occupied by the Byzantines, Venetians and Ottomans. The emergence of a unified Albanian state dates back to the establishment of the Principality of Arbër in 1190 AD.\n\nThe beginnings of architecture in Albania dates back to the middle Neolithic Age with the discovery of prehistoric dwellings in Dunavec and Maliq. They were built on a wooden platform that rested on stakes stuck vertically into the soil. Prehistoric dwellings in Albania consist of three types such as houses enclosed either completely on the ground or half underground, both found in Cakran near Fier and houses constructed above ground.\n\nDuring the Bronze Age, the Illyrians and Ancient Greeks started to organize itself in the territory of Albania. The Illyrians were an ethnic group with distinct culture and art, while it is believed that Albanians are the descendants of the Illyrians but no enough evidence is left to get a conclusion. Cities within Illyria were mainly built on the tops of high mountains surrounded by heavily fortified walls. Further, the history of Albania has not been kind to the Illyrian architectural monuments. Few monuments from the Illyrians are still preserved such as in Amantia, Antigonia, Byllis, Scodra, Lissus and Selca e Poshtme.\n\nFollowing the Illyrian Wars, the architecture in Albania developed significantly in the 2nd century BC with the arrival of the Romans. The conquered settlements and villages such as Apollonia, Butrint, Byllis, Dyrrachium and Hadrianopolis were notably modernised following Roman models, with the building of a forum, roads, theatres, promenades, temples, aqueducts and other social buildings. The period also marks the construction of stadiums and thermal baths that were of social importance as places of gathering.\n\nPreviously populated by various Illyrian and Ancient Greek tribes, Butrint became a protectorate and subsequently a colony. Nowadays, it demonstrates a high level of Roman urbanisation, while it is among the best preserved remains of Roman heritage in Albania. They left its legacy in form of city walls, an aqueduct, the forum, basilicas, baptisteries, baths, an amphitheatre and houses for the middle classes, as well as mansions with central courtyards which were decorated with various mosaics and murals.\n\nDyrrachium thrived during the Roman period and became a protectorate after the Illyrian Wars. The Amphitheatre of Durrës, which the Romans built, was at that time the largest amphitheatre in the Balkan Peninsula. It is the only Roman monument that survived up to the present.\n\nThe Via Egnatia, built by Roman Senator Gnaeus Egnatius, functioned for two millennia as a multi-purpose highway, which once connected the cities of Durrës on the Adriatic Sea in the west to Constantinople on the Marmara Sea in the east. Further, the route gave the Roman colonies of the Balkans a direct connection to Rome.\n\nMedieval cities in Albania are classified according to two criteria:\n\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, a variety of architecture styles developed in the form of dwelling, defence, worship and engineering structures.\nWhen the Roman Empire divided into east and west, Albania remained under the Eastern Roman Empire. In behalf to that, the architecture was strongly influenced by the Byzantines. Many extensive churches and monasteries were built during that period mainly in the centre and south of the country.\n\nHowever, some inherited historic structures were damaged by invading Ottoman forces. In the 13th and 14th centuries, the consolidation of the Albanian feudal principalities gave rise to \"Varosha\", or neighbourhoods outside city walls. Examples of such developments are the Arberesh principalities centred in Petrele, Kruje and Gjirokastra originating from the feudal castle. In the 15th century, close attention was given to protective structures such as the castle fortifications of Lezha, Petrela, Devoll, Butrint, and Shkodra. More reconstructions took place in strategic points such as the Castle of Elbasan, Preza, Tepelena, and Vlora, the latter being the most important on the coast. In the 18th and 19th centuries, the great Pashaliks of the period such as the Bushati Family, Ahmet Kurt Pasha, and Ali Pashe Tepelena reconstructed several fortifications such as the Castle of Shkodra, Berat, and Tepelena respectively. It is important to note that Ali Pashe Tepelena embarked on a major castle building campaign throughout Epirus.\n\nDuring the medieval period, mosques in Albania fell into two categories: those covered with a dome, and those with a roof covered hall. The latter were immediately adopted following the Ottoman invasion, by transforming the existing churches of Shkodra, Kruje, Berat, Elbasan and Kanina. For instance, the Lead Mosque built by Mustafa Pasha Bushati in Shkodra resembles a typical Istanbul mosque.\n\nOn the other hand, Christian religious structures inherited many features from their palaeo-Christian predecessors. Between the 16th and 19th centuries, a series of small structures for Christian with simple layouts were built like the Voskopoja basilica, Ardenica Monastery, and Church of St. Nicholas in Voskopoja. The latter is one of the most valuable architectonic monuments in Albania. Its interior walls are covered with paintings by the renowned painter David Selenica, and by brothers Constantine and Athanasios Zografi.\n\nDuring the 18th century, the city silhouette in Albania began to include places of worship and the Clock Tower. These, together with other social structures such as thermal baths, fountains, and \"medrese\" further enriched the city centre and its neighbourhoods.\n\nIn the 19th century, the \"bazaar\" emerges as a production and exchange centre, while the city expands beyond the castle, which completely loses its function and inhabitants. During this period, Shkodra and Korca become important commerce and skilled crafts centres.\n\nThe first half of the 20th century begins with the Austro-Hungarian occupation, continues with Fan Noli's government, King Zog's kingdom, and ends with the Italian invasion. During this time, Albanian medieval towns underwent urban transformations by Austro-Hungarian architects, giving them the appearance of European cities.\n\nThe centre of Tirana was the project of Florestano Di Fausto and Armando Brasini, well known architects of the Benito Mussolini period in Italy. Brasini laid the basis for the modern-day arrangement of the ministerial buildings in the city centre.\n\nThe plan underwent revisions by the Albanian architect Eshref Frashëri, the Italian architect Castellani, and the Austrian architects Weiss and Kohler. The rectangular parallel road system of Tirana e Re district took shape, while the northern portion of the main Boulevard was opened. These urban plans formed the basis of future developments in Albania after the second World War.\n\nFrom 1944 to 1991, cities experienced an ordered development with a decline in architectural quality. Massive socialist-styled apartment complexes, wide roads, and factories were constructed, while town squares were redesigned and a number of historic buildings demolished.\nThe period after the fall of communism is often described negatively in terms of urban development. Kiosks and apartment buildings started to occupy former public areas without planning, while informal districts formed around cities from internal migrants leaving remote rural areas for the western lowland. Decreasing urban space and increased traffic congestion have become major problems as a result of lack of planning. \nAs part of the 2014 Administrative Division Reform, all town centres in Albania are being physically redesigned and façades painted to reflect a more Mediterranean look.\n\nAlthough much has been achieved, critics argue that there is no clear vision on Tirana's future. Some of the pressing issues facing Tirana are loss of public space due to illegal and chaotic construction, unpaved roads in suburban areas, degradation of Tirana's Artificial Lake, rehabilitation of Skanderbeg Square, an ever-present smog, the construction of a central bus station and lack of public parking space. Future plans include the construction of the Multimodal Station of Tirana and the tram line, rehabilitation of the Tiranë River area, construction of a new boulevard along the former Tirana Railway Station and the finishing of the Big Ring Road.\n\nBerat, otherwise known as the city of a thousand windows, is a small city in Southern Albania. The architecture of Berat is diverse and enfolds the inheritance of the Illyrians and Ancient Greeks but also of various peoples and empires that have previously ruled the city among others the Byzantines and Ottomans. Nevertheless, the cityscape is notably embossed by the architectural style of the Ottomans and boasts a wealth of structures of exceptional historical and architectural interest. This led the city to become a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nThe city is separated intro three parts such as the residential quarter within the fortress or known as Kalaja, Mangalem and Gorica. The Kalaja is believed to have been found in antiquity as it was the settlement of the Illyrian tribe of the Desaretes. Subsequently, it was known as Antipatrea when the Romans conquered the city and called it Albanorum Oppidum. Over the centuries it has been subject to numerous conquest by the Byzantines and Ottomans.\n\nKalaja is well-preserved and consists of numerous houses, most of which are built of stone. Numerous churches with extraordinary decorated icons and murals still survives including the Holy Trinity Church and St. Mary of Blachernae Church. Islamic architecture is represented with the ruins of the Red Mosque and White Mosque. Worth seeing is the cistern that was constructed by the Romans. The prominent Onufri Museum of Icons is also located within the castle and displays works of Onufri and other important Albanian painter.\n\nHouses within the Mangalem quarter were built along a steep hill towards the Gorica quarter. The facades that faces the valley have characteristically overhanging windows. Therefore, Berat owes its titel to the district, the \"city of a thousand windows\". There are three Ottoman mosques that include the King Mosque, Lead Mosque and notably the Bachelors Mosque. The Halveti Teqe stands behind the King Mosque and enclose an impressive carved ceiling.\n\nGorica was for a long time only connected through the Gorica Bridge to the rest of Berat. It is among the most popular Ottoman bridges in Albania that was built in 1780 by Ahmed Kurt Pasha. The Saint Spyridon Monastery is another prominent attraction due to its admirable Post-Byzantine style. \n\nThe architecture in Korçë is characterised by mansions and residential buildings, cobbled streets and wide boulevards with many cafés and restaurants. There is an architectural mix, due to the turbulent history, of Art Nouveau, Neoclassicism and Ottoman styles. Italian and French influences increased after the beginning of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. In modernising its infrastructure through the centuries, the city has preserved some of its history in its streets and facades.\n\nThe city was an important trade and economic centre during the eighteenth century. During the Ottoman rule, the Old Bazaar developed rapidly to become the city's main centre of commerce. Although bazaars were typical Ottoman trading complexes developed in the towns of Albania and elsewhere in the Balkans. The Ottoman architecture is predominant within the bazaar, while recent reconstructions have led to the application of elements specific to modern architecture.\n\nThe Resurrection Cathedral is located in the center north of Bulevardi Republika. It is one of the largest Eastern Orthodox cathedrals in Albania, as well as one of the city's symbols and primary tourist attractions. The cathedral is a three-nave structure and belongs to Byzantine style. It stands slightly elevated on an estrade and consists mainly of cream-white to ivory-colored stones and red bricks. The interior walls and domes are decorated with icons and frescoes.\n\nThe Mirahori Mosque was built in 1484 and founded by Iljaz Bey Mirahor. The minaret and dome of the building was damaged by an earthquake and was recently restored. It consists of white limestone blocks that lie on layers of red bricks. It is only one of the few monuments of the Ottoman period in the city and the surrounding county.\n\nChristianity has a long and continuous history in Albania and was introduced as early as the time of the Apostles. Sacred structures such as churches, basilicas, baptisteries started to appear after the Roman invasion of Illyria. An Early Christian architecture style developed simultaneously in Albania between the 4th and 6th century. As the Roman Empire fell into east and west, the Byzantines kept Roman architectural elements alive and became prominent for their slightly flatter domes and richer usage of murals and icons rather than statues.\n\nThe Baptistery with the Basilica of Butrint, built in the 6th century, are among the most important Early Christian buildings in the Balkan Peninsula. It is besides the Hagia Sophia in Istanbul, one of the largest baptisteries in the Mediterranean world. The most remarkable feature is its impressive mosaic floor, illustrating iconography relating both to Christianity and to Aristocratic life.\n\nThe Dormition of the Theotokos Church in Labovë e Kryqit is one of the greatest surviving examples of Byzantine architecture in the country. Its interior is decorated with various mosaics and frescoes and coverings of great artistic value. It is a typically Byzantine church with a high central dome with nave and aisles arranged in a cruciform plan.\n\nThe St. Anthony Church of Durrës is another important example of Byzantine architecture. It was built in the Cape of Rodon, owning a direct proximity to the Adriatic Sea. The structure was built in the 14th century and stands close to the Rodoni Castle, which was built by Gjergj Kastrioti Skanderbeg.\n\nThe Ardenica Monastery was built in 1282 following the victory against the Angevins in the Siege of Berat. It the place where, in 1451, was celebrated the marriage of Skanderbeg with Andronika Arianiti. The monastery is an impressive representative of Byzantine architecture with many romanesque features. \nThe history of Albania has not been kind to Early Christian architectural monuments. Scattered throughout the country, there are still structures and remains of churches and monasteries from that period such as the Holy Trinity Church of Berat, St. Nicholas Monastery Church in Mesopotam, St. Mary's Church of Maligrad, St. Mary of Blachernae Church of Berat, Paleochristian and Byzantine Church of Lin.\n\nProminent cathedrals in the country include the Cathedral of Shkodër, Resurrection Cathedral of Korçë, St Paul's Cathedral of Tirana and St. Stephen's Cathedral of Shkodër. The Resurrection Cathedral of Tirana is the 3rd largest Orthodox cathedral in Europe.\n\nBy the late fifteenth century, the Ottoman Empire expanded its territory and included most of the Balkan Peninsula. In the sixteenth and seventeenth century, Islam had become the predominant religion in Albania. As with Christianity before it, the new religion were introduced subsequently the Ottoman occupation of Albania. The foreign influences that accompanied Albania, were absorbed and reinterpreted with an extensive construction of mosques throughout the country.\n\nThe combinations of brick and stone were very frequent in Ottoman architecture, while brick was used mainly for arches, domes and vaults. Further, the most characteristic feature of those mosques is the dominance of a dome, having a semi-circular flat profile, that covered the significant part of the prayer hall within the mosque. The elegance of various Islamic elements is blended in and adapted into buildings and interior designs such as the use of tiling, geometric designs, floral motifs and murals.\n\nIn contrast to the long presence of the Ottomans in Albania and Balkans, only few significant mosques from this period have survived, scattered particularly in the center and south of Albania. One of those mosques include the Mirahori Mosque built in 1495 by Imrahor Ilyas Bey in Korçë. It is the only existing Ottoman mosque in the city and surrounding county.\n\nThe Et'hem Bey Mosque in Tirana is an important representative of the Ottoman heritage in the country. The construction of the mosque began in the end of the 18th century and has been completed in the 19th century. Its most noted features are the frescoes within the mosque with depict trees, waterfalls and bridges.\n\nThe Bachelors' Mosque is located at the lower part of Mangalem quarter of Berat, which is inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. As most of other mosques in the city, the Bachelors' Mosque was declared a Cultural Monument of Albania in 1961.\nBuilt by Pasha Mehmed Bushati in 1773, the Lead Mosque of Shkodër is the only building left in\nthe city that was built by the Ottomans. It takes the name because all of its cupolas were covered with lead. The mosque stands in the foothills of Mount Rozafa in a meadow along the Drin. It fell into disuse after a massive flood in 1865, which swept away that part of the city.\n\nIn Berat, the Lead Mosque, whose most characteristic feature is the lead dome, is among the best preserved Ottoman buildings in Albania. It was built during the 16th century, when Berat became an important administrative and religious center within the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe Bazaar Mosque in Gjirokastër was built in the 18th century on a hill side close to the commercial neighbourhood of the city during that period, the bazaar, close to the Gjirokastër Fortress. Although most of the city and the mosque were constructed with portico.\n\nAs the Ottoman Empire introduced Islam, the Bektashi Order spread across the Balkans and became particularly strong in Albania. Tekkes were centers of Islamic mysticism and theological provided a popular alternative to normative Islam. The architecture of tekkes is usually simple and articulated by a dome, arch, courtyard, portal, tomb and a central hall.\nThe Halveti Teqe was built by Albanian Ahmet Kurt Pasha in the 18th century in Berat. It is a quadratic building, that consists of a rectangular prayer room, a smaller room for special religious services, an impressive portal that precedes the entrance and a türbe. The walls within the structure are decorated with various frescoes and murals.\n\nBuilt in 1770, the Dollma Teqe stands within the fortification of Krujë and includes a türbe and hamam. The flat dome rests on a low octagonal tholobate. Its interior walls are richly decorated and painted with murals and writings. \n\nThe scenic landscapes of Albania are dotted with castles, forts and citadels in all shapes and sizes. Previously they was mostly defined by their practical use to repel invasions and often serve as a royal residence for noble families. Those structures constitute treasures and legacy of the historic past of Albania. The first castles in the Albanian lands were built by Illyrians and Romans and later by Venetians and Ottomans. The majority have been renovated throughout history and different epoches with changing rule and adaptations to war technology development.\n\nThe Castle of Berat has a long history, which can be traced back to the 4th century. After being burned down by the Romans, the walls were strengthened again in the 5th century under the Byzantines and later in the 15th century by the Ottomans. The fortress was often damaged, particularly during the Communism in Albania, and reconstructed. It possesses several Byzantine churches dotted with impressive frescoes, murals and icons, whereas the Ottoman heritage is demonstrated in forms of mosques and traditional houses.\n\nThe Castle of Krujë is a typical medieval fortress built upon a rocky hill in Krujë that resisted the advance of the Ottomans several times under the reign of Gjergj Kastrioti Skënderbeu. It was constructed during the 5th and 6th centuries and the surrounding walls are reinforced by nine towers, which served as an observation and signaling post. There can still be found the remains of houses and mansions. \n\nThe Fortress of Bashtovë was built over an existing former structure by the Venetians in the Middle Ages. It stands in a very strategic point near the mouth of Shkumbin River close to the Adriatic Sea. The castle is a typical Venetian structure that combined the Gothic lancet arch with Byzantine and Ottoman influences.\n\nPetrelë Castle is a medieval castle located on a hilltop overlooking Petrelë and Erzen Valley. The castle has a triangular structure with two observation towers. The early fortifications probably dates from the 3rd century, while in the 9th century it was expanded and served as a base for Gjergj Kastrioti Skënderbeu during its revolt against the Ottoman Empire.\n\nRozafa Castle is an ancient castle in Shkodër. The castle is associated with a famous legend about a woman who was buried in the foundation of the castle. It stretches on a rocky hill and is trapped on three sides by the rivers of Buna, Kir and Drin. Its current name, Rozafa, appeared for the first time in the early Middle Ages. Later when the Ottomans conquered the Balkans the castle than was turned into a mosque.\n\nThe Citadel of Gjirokastër, a hilltop fortress, dominates the cityscape of Gjirokastër and overlooks the strategically important route along the Drino river valley. There are five towers and houses, a clock tower, a church, a cistern and many other structures within the fortification.\n\nAli Pasha Castle was built on a small island along the mouth of the Vivari Channel in Butrint. The castle is named after the Albanian Ali Pasha of Ioannina, who ruled over the Pashalik of Yanina and even attempted to rival the Dey of Algiers in the seas. It is a small rectangular structure with battered walls, while along the corners, there are two battered round towers with cannons on its seaward side and two irregularly sized battered square towers equipped with firing loops or windows.\n\nThe Rodoni Castle stand within the Cape of Rodon with a proximity to the Adriatic Sea. Its name is derived from the Illyrian god of Rodon. After the First Siege of Krujë and League of Lezhë, the Kastriotis decided to increase the fortifications for the use against the Ottomans. Skanderbeg chose the Cape of Rodon as the location of the castle and construction began in 1450.\n\nAlthough other prominent and impressive castles with different architectural styles in Albania include the Durrës Castle, Kaninë Castle, Lezhë Castle, Lëkurësi Castle, Prezë Castle and Fortress of Justinian.\n\nKulla were fortified tower houses that flourished between the 17th and 19th centuries as a result of resistance to the Ottoman conquest, national renaissance and emergence of capitalism. In most cases, they take the form of an extended family house. However, a house for two brothers can also be found.\nAccording to their spatial and planning composition, Albanian houses are classified and separated into four major groups:\n\nThe southern urban or civic Kullas are found in the cities and surroundings of Berat, Gjirokastër, Himara and Këlcyrë. Tower-houses in Gjirokastër were built in the 13th century predating Ottoman conquest. The northern Kullas are a heavily fortified residential building built in the north of Albania and Dukagjin region of Kosovo. They contain small windows and shooting holes because their main purpose was to offer security from attack. Further they have been initially built from wood and stone and eventually only from stone.\n\nThe first Kullas were built in the 17th century, a time when there was continuous fighting in the Dukagjini region, although most of the ones that still remain are from the 18th or 19th century. They have been almost always built within a complex of buildings with various functions but Kullas in villages exists mostly as standalone structures. They are also positioned within the complex of buildings so that the inhabitants can look out over the surrounding area. Kullas in towns are usually built as standalone structures, while in villages they are more commonly found as a part of a larger ensemble of Kullas and stone houses, usually grouped together for the family clan they belonged to.\n\nCertain Kullas were used as places of isolation and safe havens or \"locked towers\" (Kulla Ngujimi) intended for the use of persons targeted by blood feuds; an example can be found in Theth.\n\nMost of the Kullas are three-story buildings. A characteristic unit of its architectural structure in \"Oda e Burrave\" (Chamber of Men or Gathering Room of Men), which was usually placed in the second floor of the Kulla, called Divanhane, while the ground floor served as a barn for cattle and the first floor was where the family quarters were located. The material from which the Divanhane is constructed, either wood or stone, is sometimes used to classify Kullas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4041345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4041345", "title": "Are We Done Yet?", "text": "Are We Done Yet?\n\nAre We Done Yet? is a 2007 American family comedy film starring Ice Cube. The film is a loose remake of the 1948 Cary Grant comedy \"Mr. Blandings Builds His Dream House\" and a sequel to the 2005 comedy \"Are We There Yet?\" The film was directed by Steve Carr from a screenplay by Hank Nelken. It was produced by Revolution Studios and RKO Pictures and distributed by Columbia Pictures. The film was shot on location in Tsawwassen, British Columbia, Canada, but is set in Newberg, Oregon, United States.\n\nFollowing the events of \"Are We There Yet?\", Nick Persons (Ice Cube) has married Suzanne (Nia Long) and moved her, Kevin (Philip Daniel Bolden), and Lindsey (Aleisha Allen) into his apartment, also purchasing a 2007 Cadillac Escalade (after he accidentally blew up his Lincoln Navigator SUV in the previous film by leaving the lighter unattended inside). He has also sold his sports memorabilia store to his best friend, Marty (played by Jay Mohr in the first film). The family has also got a Berger Picard and named it Coco. While getting ready for an interview with Magic Johnson to launch a sports magazine, Suzanne tells Nick that she is pregnant and they later find out that there will be twins. \n\nFor more space, Suzanne and Nick go check out a house in the suburbs. They meet Chuck Mitchell Jr. (John C. McGinley), the resident real-estate agent/contractor there, and after some talking, Nick decides to take the house. The family then packs up their things and moves into the house, with Lindsey and Kevin (mostly the former) being against it. However, as it turns out, Nick failed to get the house inspected first, and they soon find a mold infestation, and Nick becomes angry with Chuck as while trying to resolve the mold issue, he discovers even more problems with the house, and almost destroys it trying to fix them all. Meanwhile, Lindsey sneaks out to go to a party with one of the teenage workers who is Chuck's friend, and when Nick finds out, he grounds her. He finally decides to fire Chuck, which causes all those working on the house to quit out of loyalty to Chuck, and Suzanne to take the kids and move into the guest house, with the parting shot, \"You're the one tearing this family apart, Nick!\" After taking some time to think, Nick decides to fix the house on his own and also to apologize to Chuck, especially when he was told that Chuck lost his wife a few years previously. Chuck responds by bringing his friends back to help.\n\nWhen Suzanne goes into labor with the hospital half an hour away, Nick, Kevin and Lindsey have to deliver the babies. Chuck tries to get there, but his truck breaks down and he is forced to power walk down to the house. While she's still in labor, Nick gets a call from Magic. After Suzanne gives birth to twin boys, the movie ends six months later with a big barbecue in their backyard at which Nick debuts his new magazine titled \"Are We Done Yet?\", based on his experience building the house.\n\n\nThe film made $58.4 million worldwide. The film was released in the United Kingdom on June 8, 2007, and opened on #3, behind \"Oceans Thirteen\" and \"\".\n\nThe film holds an 8% approval rating on aggregate review site Rotten Tomatoes, based on ninety three collected reviews, and has an average score of 3.3 out of 10. The site's consensus reads: \"\"Are We Done Yet?\" plays it way too safe with generic slapstick and uninspired domestic foibles.\"\n\nMetacritic gave the film a weighted average score of 36 out of 100, based on twenty one sampled reviews, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews.\" The film was nominated for a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Prequel, Remake, Rip-off or Sequel (lost to \"I Know Who Killed Me\"). Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "37842346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37842346", "title": "Art and Scholasticism", "text": "Art and Scholasticism\n\nArt and Scholasticism () is a 1920 book by the philosopher Jacques Maritain, his major contribution to aesthetics. According to Gary Furnell, the work \"was a key text that guided the work of writers such as Allen Tate, Caroline Gordon, Sally and Robert Fitzgerald, Francois Mauriac, Thomas Merton, John Howard Griffin, Flannery O’Connor and T.S. Eliot.\" Maritain's Thomist-Aristotelian distinction between Art and Prudence was highly influential on the sculptor Eric Gill, and were developed further in the seminal essay on theological aesthetics, entitled 'Art and Sacrament', by poet and painter David Jones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40197933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40197933", "title": "Ashurbanipal (sculpture)", "text": "Ashurbanipal (sculpture)\n\nAshurbanipal, also known as the Ashurbanipal Monument or the Statue of Ashurbanipal, is a bronze sculpture by Fred Parhad, an artist of Assyrian descent. It is located in the Civic Center of San Francisco, California, in the United States. The statue depicting the Assyrian king of the same name was commissioned by the Assyrian Foundation for the Arts and presented to the City of San Francisco in 1988 as a gift from the Assyrian people. The sculpture reportedly cost $100,000 and was the first \"sizable\" bronze statue of Ashurbanipal. It is administered by the City and County of San Francisco and the San Francisco Arts Commission.\n\nParhad's work was met with some criticism by local Assyrians, who argued it was inaccurate to portray Ashurbanipal holding a clay tablet and a lion, or wearing a skirt. The critics thought the statue looked more like the Sumerian king Gilgamesh; Renee Kovacs, a \"scholar and self-stated Assyriologist\", believed the sculpture depicted neither figure, but rather a Mesopotamian \"protective figure\". Parhad defended the accuracy of his work, while also admitting that he took artistic liberties.\n\nIn Assyrian sculpture, the famous colossal entrance way guardian figures of \"lamassu\" were often accompanied by a hero grasping a wriggling lion with one hand and typically a snake with the other, also colossal and in high relief; these are generally the only other types of high relief in Assyrian sculpture. They continue the Master of Animals tradition in Mesopotamian art, and may represent Enkidu, a central figure in the Ancient Mesopotamian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\". In the palace of Sargon II at Khorsabad, a group of at least seven \"lamassu\" and two such heroes with lions surrounded the entrance to the \"throne room\", \"a concentration of figures which produced an overwhelming impression of power.\" The arrangement was repeated in Sennacherib's palace at Nineveh.\n\n\"Ashurbanipal\" was designed by Fred Parhad, an Iraqi-born artist of Assyrian descent. Parhad rejected formal arts studies at the University of California, Berkeley and relocated to New York, where the Metropolitan Museum of Art allowed him to study its Assyrian collection. The work was commissioned by the Assyrian Foundation for the Arts under the direction of its president, Narsai David. The Assyrian Universal Alliance Foundation also claims to have commissioned the work. Funds were collected from Assyrians throughout the United States.\n\nIn 1987, \"The Telegraph\" reported that the work cost $100,000 and was the first \"sizable\" bronze statue of Ashurbanipal. It was presented to the City of San Francisco as a gift from the Assyrian people on May 29, 1988, unveiled at the entry to the Asian Art Museum on Van Ness Avenue. The statue now stands on Fulton Street between the Main Library and Asian Art Museum, within the city's Civic Center. It is administered by the City and County of San Francisco and the San Francisco Arts Commission.\n\nThe Smithsonian Institution lists Frank Tomsick as the installation's architect and MBT Associates as its architectural firm. \"Ashurbanipal\" was surveyed by the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program in 1992. In 1996, plans for a Civic Center pedestrian mall were being developed by the San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association; one planner advocated for construction of an Assyrian garden, including lotus blossoms, pomegranate trees and reeds, at the site of the statue.\n\nThe patinated bronze statue, mounted on a base and a plinth to reach a total height of , weighs approximately . It depicts Ashurbanipal, the Assyrian king known for building the eponymously named Library of Ashurbanipal, the first and largest library in Nineveh. The bearded king is shown wearing earrings and a tunic; he is holding a book (or clay tablet) in one arm and a lion cub in the other. According to the Historical Marker Database, the tablet reads in cuneiform: \"Peace unto heaven and earth / Peace unto countries and cities / Peace unto the dwellers in all lands / This is the statue presented to the City of San Francisco by the Assyrian people in the 210th year of America's sovereignty\".\n\nThe \"larger-than-life\", full length statue stands above a plinth adorned with a lotus blossom design and a concrete base with an anti-graffiti coating. The base includes rosettes and a bronze plaque. One inscription below the statue reads the text of the tablet in English, Akkadian cuneiform and Aramaic. The text \"Ashurbanipal, King of Assyria, 669–627 B.C.\" appears above and the text \"Dedicated May 29, 1988\" appears below, both in English. Another inscription below the statue reads, \"Presented to the City of San Francisco by the Assyrian Foundation for the Arts through donations of American Assyrian Association of San Francisco / Assyrian American National Federation\", followed by a list of names of donors. In December 2010, the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" reported that a large plaque from the sculpture was missing.\n\nIn December 1987, as news began to circulate about the commissioned work, local Assyrians accused Parhad of misrepresenting Ashurbanipal. Criticisms included the depiction of the king holding both a book and a lion, which they argued he \"wouldn't do\", and for dressing him in a skirt, which they claimed he would never have worn. The critics thought the statue made a better portrayal of the Sumerian king Gilgamesh. One critic said: It's very simple. The statue represents Gilgamesh... No Assyrian has a right to imagine things about our king. It's exactly like making a copy of the Statue of Liberty and saying it is George Washington... Assyrian kings didn't wear miniskirts. They wouldn't have been holding a lion or a book. It's an insult to the Assyrians. Narsai David responded: They are entitled to their opinion... We have never said this is a museum-quality reproduction... We have always said this is a characterization of Ashurbanipal as done by a 20th-century artist. If they choose to think of this as Gilgamesh, they are free to do so.\n\nRenee Kovacs, a \"scholar and self-stated Assyriologist\", said the statue depicted neither Ashurbanipal or Gilgamesh, but rather a Mesopotamian \"protective figure, like a guard.\" Parhad defended the accuracy of his work, while also admitting that he took artistic liberties and attempted to incorporate the various aspects of Assyrian culture, from its hunting mastery to its admiration for writing. He said of the sculpture: The piece has authentic qualities to it, but it is also my statue... With the earrings and the clothing and the hair and his daggers, it is Ashurbanipal. But in the choice of (stance), the fact that he is holding a tablet and a lion, that is mine. I wanted myself to be represented in the piece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12599728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12599728", "title": "Assault at West Point: The Court-Martial of Johnson Whittaker", "text": "Assault at West Point: The Court-Martial of Johnson Whittaker\n\nAssault at West Point is a 1994 Showtime made-for-cable docudrama about Johnson Chesnut Whittaker, one of the first black cadets at West Point, and the trial that followed an assault he suffered in 1880. The film features Samuel L. Jackson, who portrays a lawyer who defends Whittaker.\n\nJohnson Whittaker, a black cadet at West Point, is attacked by three fellow students. The school administrators court-martial Whittaker in the mistaken belief that he staged his own attack, supposedly to avoid a philosophy exam.\n\nThe assault on him by fellow cadets quickly makes its way into the press and gained widespread attention. Richard Greener is the Harvard alumnus lawyer who defends Whittaker at his trial and, since he is also black, has also personally experienced racism. Greener's partner, Daniel Chamberlain, does not share his determination but rather has a different agenda – acquiring fame.\n\nThe trial begins and the two lawyers are at odds with one another. The prosecutor, Major Asa Bird Gardiner, cross-examines Whittaker, who manages to evade his tactics. On the day the verdict is to be delivered, the judge whose vote they had hoped would be favorable does not show up in court. The other two judges find Whittaker guilty of assaulting himself so as not to participate in the exam.\n\nThe film closes in later years, with Whittaker being interviewed by a reporter. Whittaker tells him that he went on to become a school principal, while Greener is now retired. He also informs the reporter that Chamberlain later went on to defend lynching. \"People will sometimes do anything to gather fame\", states Whittaker, to which the reporter replies, \"I wonder what hidden agenda he was carrying\". The film ends with the reporter telephoning the newspaper and telling them to hold the first page; he has a great story.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49321495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49321495", "title": "Bastar Wooden Craft", "text": "Bastar Wooden Craft\n\nBastar Wooden Crafts are traditional Indian wooden crafts that are manufactured in the Bastar district of Chhattisgarh state, India. The wood-crafting work has been protected under the Geographical indication (GI) of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement. It is listed at item 84 as \"Bastar Wooden Craft\" of the GI Act 1999 of the Government of India with registration confirmed by the Controller General of Patents Designs and Trademarks.\n\nGenerally people in Chhattisgarh, especially Bastar people have excellent skills in variety of craft work including Dhokra, bamboo craft, wrought iron craft, tribal dress, traditional textile, Kantha embroidery, terracotta, tribal painting, bell metal, etc. Their skills have been recognized by national and state awards. Badhai people are skilled in this woodcraft work and they are divided into two groups. One group make agricultural instruments and other group make decorative and totemic pillars. Another community, knows as Muria people also has woodcarving skills. The Murias are best in craftsmanship. Their skill apply in various objects that from small to big. They turn craft skills into interpretation of basic lifestyles and basic routines of life such as chaffing of paddy, grinding grains, etc. They express their culture and religious faiths into craft art that reflect through gods, goddess, music culture of the community and wildlife. The craft work heavily depended as hand-made where there is no machinery usage or rare use in particular areas only.\n\nWoodcraft in Bastar has beautiful and unique form of art that was mastered by Bastar tribal and it helps their livelihood. The handicrafts product has decent market in different parts of India as well as in some foreign countries. They use teak wood, Indian Rosewood, whitewood and other finest wood to craft various handicraft items. Bastar Wooden Craft has been exhibited at \"Durbar Hall Art Gallery\" too.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14228274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14228274", "title": "Benjamin Heath Malkin", "text": "Benjamin Heath Malkin\n\nBenjamin Heath Malkin (, London - at Cowbridge) was a British scholar and writer notable for his connection to the artist and poet William Blake.\n\nMalkin was educated at Harrow School and Cambridge University, receiving his MA in 1802 and his doctorate in 1810. In 1795 he published \"Essays on Subjects connected with Civilization\" (C. Dilly, London). From 1809 to 1828 he was headmaster of Bury St Edmunds Free School, where he taught a number of pupils who would later go on to become Cambridge Apostles. In 1829, Malkin became the first professor of History in the newly formed London University. During his scholarly career he published both historical and creative works on many subjects, including the history of South Wales, a translation of Gil Blas, and the play \"Almahide and Hamet\". He contributed biographies to \"Rees's Cyclopædia\".\n\nToday he is remembered for his 1806 book \"A Father's Memoirs of his Child\", which leads off with a 48-page introduction consisting of a dedication to his friend Thomas Johnes and the earliest biographical account of Blake. Blake had designed (though it was engraved by Robert Cromek) the frontispiece depicting Malkin's deceased son. G. E. Bentley suggests that Malkin met Blake in 1803, soon after Blake returned to London from his three years in Felpham. It is also possible that the two men were acquainted via the publisher Joseph Johnson for whom Blake had worked. William Godwin reports meeting Malkin at dinner at Horne Tooke's in 1796 and 1797 and at Fuseli's Milton Gallery in 1800. It is therefore likely that Blake and Malkin shared radical sympathies. Malkin also lived close to Blake's patron Thomas Butts in Hackney, London and knew George Cumberland, another friend.\n\nIn addition to a short biography of Blake, Malkin published a number of Blake's lyric poems. This was the first time they had been published other than in Blake's own original illuminated etchings. Before the publication of Alexander Gilchrist's \"Life of William Blake\" in 1863, Malkin's book was the principal means of public knowledge of Blake's poetry. William Wordsworth copied poems from it.\n\n\"A Father's Memoirs of His Child\" is an account of the life and death of Malkin's son Thomas Williams Malkin, who along with his brother Benjamin is described as a child prodigy with an insatiable thirst for knowledge. He apparently learned the alphabet from blocks as an infant and would point to the correct letters when they were named. He did not speak until he was about two years old. Before he was three, he taught himself to write by copying print in books. Malkin insists that he did not push Thomas but followed his lead and taught him subjects such as Latin or mathematics only by request. Thomas also invented an imaginary country called Allestone, including details of its history, geography and monetary system, and an elaborate (for a five-year-old) map. Much of this material is included in the book, partly as proof that Thomas acted independently and was not coerced to achievements.\n\nThe book was written in part because of a confrontation with a \"medical expert\" the day after Thomas' death. It was his stated belief that Thomas had died of so-called \"water on the brain\", citing Thomas' \"large head\" and high intelligence as symptomatic of this disease. In effect, he accused Malkin of causing his son's death through having allowed him to overindulge in mental activity. Thus, Malkin includes the medical details of Thomas' final illness. He also ordered an autopsy, which he says proved conclusively that Thomas died of inflammatory bowel disease and peritonitis, and that his brain was perfectly normal. Malkin's grief and frustration are expressed vividly in this part of the text.\n\nMalkin's other children survived to adulthood. Benjamin Jr. became a barrister. He worked in the Imperial legal service, first as Recorder of Penang, and later as one of the Puisne Judges of Calcutta, for which he was knighted. He was noted for his high intelligence and pleasant manner. He married and had two children, including Herbert Malkin, lawyer and cricketer. He died in 1838.\n\nFrederic, who was an infant when Thomas died, wrote several books on history including a history of Greece. Arthur, the youngest, also wrote historical textbooks. Thomas' \"Allestone\" paracosm came to the attention of fantasy fans in 1973 when the map was reprinted in \"An Atlas of Fantasy\" by Jeremiah Post.\n"}
{"id": "13639035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13639035", "title": "Book sales club", "text": "Book sales club\n\nA book sales club is a subscription-based method of selling and purchasing books. It is more often called simply a book club, a term that is also used to describe a book discussion club, which can cause confusion.\n\nEach member of a book sales club agrees to receive books by mail and pay for them as they are received. This may be done by means of negative option billing, in which the customer receives an announcement of the book, or books, along with a form to notify the seller if the customer does not want the book: if the customer fails to return the form by a specified date, the seller will ship the book and expect the customer to pay for it. Alternatively, the business may operate via a \"positive option\", in which the customer is periodically sent a list of books offered, but none is sent until the customer specifically orders them. The offer of a free book, often a large one, is a frequent enticement to membership. The Compact Edition of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" for years served this purpose. Some clubs offer new members other (non-book) free gifts, such as book notes or reading lights.\n\nSome book sales clubs are \"continuity\" clubs, which send members a certain number of books (selected by the club or the member) every month until the membership expires or is cancelled. Harlequin Book Clubs are typical of such clubs. Other book sales clubs are \"commitment\" clubs, which require members to order a certain number of books in order to fulfill the membership obligation and cancel the membership. Most Book-of-the-Month Clubs are commitment clubs.\n\nBook sales clubs typically sell books at a sizable discount from their list prices. Often, the books sold are editions created specifically for sale by the clubs, and are manufactured more cheaply and less durably than the regular editions.\n\nThe Book-of-the-Month Club (founded 1926) is an early and well known example of this kind of business. Others include the Science Fiction Book Club, the Mystery Book Club, and the Quality Paperback Book Club, all of which are run by Booksonline / Doubleday Entertainment (a subsidiary of Bookspan). The largest book of the month clubs have millions of members.\n\nTime-Life book produced a large number of book series in the book sales club format, including the Time Reading Program.\n\nIn 19th-century Britain, the term \"book club\" was sometimes applied to text publication societies. Like the modern clubs, these were membership organizations whose members would receive publications automatically in return for their subscriptions. The books were usually scholarly editions of old works of historical or literary interest, or of archival records, which had been edited and published specifically (and often exclusively) for distribution to society members. The oldest of these societies was the highly exclusive Roxburghe Club, founded in London in 1812. Although many of the 19th-century societies have ceased to exist, others (including the Roxburghe Club) continue to survive and flourish, and new societies continue to be founded. The modern societies mostly focus on publishing editions of archival records, and are now more usually known as record or records societies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2983349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2983349", "title": "Bookselling", "text": "Bookselling\n\nBookselling is the commercial trading of books which is the retail and distribution end of the publishing process. People who engage in bookselling are called booksellers, bookwomen, or bookmen. The founding of libraries in 300 BC stimulated the energies of the Athenian booksellers. In Rome, toward the end of the republic, it became the fashion to have a library, and Roman booksellers carried on a flourishing trade.\n\nThe spread of Christianity naturally created a great demand for copies of the Gospels, other sacred books, and later on for missals and other devotional volumes for both church and private use. The modern system of bookselling dates from soon after the introduction of printing. In the course of the 16th and 17th centuries the Low Countries for a time became the chief centre of the bookselling world. Modern book selling has changed dramatically with the advent of the Internet. With major websites such as Amazon, eBay, and other big book distributors offering affiliate programs, book sales have now, more than ever, been put in the hands of the small business owner.\n\nBookstores (called \"bookshops\" in the United Kingdom, Australia and most of the Commonwealth apart from Canada) may be either part of a chain, or local independent bookstores. Stores can range in size offering from several hundred to several hundred thousand titles. They may be brick and mortar stores or internet only stores or a combination of both. Sizes for the larger bookstores exceed half a million titles. Bookstores often sell other printed matter besides books, such as newspapers, magazines and maps; additional product lines may vary enormously, particularly among independent bookstores. Colleges and universities often have their own student bookstore on campus that focuses on providing course textbooks and scholarly books, although some on-campus bookstores are owned by large chains such as WHSmith or Waterstone's in the United Kingdom, or Barnes & Noble College Booksellers in the United States, which is a private firm controlled by the chair of Barnes & Noble.\n\nAnother common type of bookstore is the used bookstore or second-hand bookshop which buys and sells used and out-of-print books in a variety of conditions. A range of titles are available in used bookstores, including in print and out of print books. Book collectors tend to frequent used book stores. Large online bookstores offer used books for sale, too. Individuals wishing to sell their used books using online bookstores agree to terms outlined by the bookstore(s): for example, paying the online bookstore(s) a predetermined commission once the books have sold. In Paris, the Bouquinistes are antiquarian and used booksellers who have had outdoor stalls and boxes along both sides of the Seine for hundreds of years, regulated by law since the 1850s and contributing to the scenic ambience of the city.\n\nIn the book of Jeremiah the prophet is represented as dictating to Baruch the scribe, who described the mode in which his book was written. These scribes were the earliest booksellers, and supplied copies as they were demanded. Aristotle possessed a somewhat extensive library, and Plato is recorded to have paid the large sum of one hundred minae for three small treatises of Philolaus the Pythagorean. When the Alexandrian library was founded about 300 BC, various expedients were used for the purpose of procuring books, and this appears to have stimulated the energies of the Athenian booksellers. In Rome, toward the end of the republic, it became the fashion to have a library as part of the household furniture. Roman booksellers carried on a flourishing trade. Their shops (\"taberna librarii\") were chiefly in the Argiletum, and in the Vicus Sandalarius. On the door, or on the side posts, was a list of the books on sale; and Martial, who mentions this also, says that a copy of his First Book of Epigrams might be purchased for five denarii. In the time of Augustus the great booksellers were the Sosii. According to Justinian, a law was passed granting to the scribes the ownership of the material written; this may be the beginnings of the modern law of copyright.\n\nAbbasid Caliphate in the east and Caliphate of Córdoba in the west, encouraged the development of bookshops, copyists, and book dealers across the entire Muslim world, in Islāmic cities such as Damascus, Baghdad, and Córdoba. According to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\":\n\nThere is a popular turn of phrase from the 1960s, \"Books are written in Cairo, published in Beirut, and read in Baghdad\". One of the most famous and prestigious Arab publishers is Dar al-Asab.\n\nThe first wave of French booksellers came soon after Johannes Gutenberg introduced his new printing technologies in Europe. The oldest known bookstore still opened in France (and Europe) is the Librairie Nouvelle d'Orléans. Its owner in 1545 was Étienne Rouzeau, it now belongs to publisher Albin Michel. In 1810 Napoleon created a system by which, a would-be bookseller had to apply for a license (brevet), and supply four references testifying to his morality, and four confirmations of his professional ability to perform the job. All references had to be certified by the local mayor. If the application was accepted, the bookseller would have to swear an oath of loyalty to the régime. The application process was conducted to ensure that the new bookstore was not a place that distributed rebellious publications. The brevet process continued until 1870.\n\nThe spread of Christianity naturally created a great demand for copies of the Gospels, other sacred books, and later on for missals and other devotional volumes for both church and private use. Before the Reformation and the introduction of printing, scribes and stationers who sold books formed guilds. Some of these stationers had stations built against the walls of cathedrals. Besides the sworn stationers there were many booksellers in Oxford who were not sworn; for one of the statutes, passed in 1373, expressly states that, in consequence of their presence,\n\nThe modern system of bookselling dates from soon after the introduction of printing. Through the new mechanized process for printing, books became more affordable. By the nineteenth century, the model of bookselling as we know it began to emerge. A professional group of booksellers in Leipzig decided to create their own association in 1824, and Borsenverin des Deustchen Buchhandels became the first group to publish outside of the printer's guilds, leading to more people joining the profession without needing to be attached to a guild. The earliest printers were also editors and booksellers; but being unable to sell every copy of the works they printed, they had agents at most of the seats of learning, such as Anton Koberger, who introduced the art of printing into Nuremberg in 1470. The most common types of books printed in large quantities were able to be cheaply produced like catechisms and almanacs and often not bound at all.\n\nThe religious dissensions of the continent, and the Reformation in England under Henry VIII and Edward VI, created a great demand for books; but in England neither monarchs of the Tudor nor Stuart dynasties could easily tolerate a free press, and various efforts were made to curb it.\n\nThe first patent for the office of king's printer was granted to Thomas Berthelet by Henry VIII in 1529, but only such books as were first licensed were to be printed. At that time even the purchase or possession of an unlicensed book was a punishable offense. In 1556 the Company of Stationers was incorporated, and very extensive powers were granted in order that obnoxious books might be repressed. In the following reigns the Star Chamber exercised a rather effectual censorship; but, in spite of all precaution, such was the demand for books of a polemical nature, that many were printed abroad and surreptitiously introduced into England.\n\nIn the course of the 16th and 17th centuries the Low Countries for a time became the chief centre of the bookselling world, and many of the finest folios and quartos in our libraries bear the names of Jansen, Blauw or Plantin, with the imprint of Amsterdam, Utrecht, Leiden or Antwerp, while the Elzevirs besides other works produced their charming little pocket classics. The southern towns of Douai and Saint-Omer at the same time furnished polemical works in English.\n\nQueen Elizabeth interfered little with books except when they emanated from Roman Catholics, or touched upon her royal prerogatives; and towards the end of her reign, and during that of her successor, James, bookselling flourished. So much had bookselling increased during the Protectorate that, in 1658, was published \"A Catalogue of the most Vendible Books in England\" by William London. A bad time immediately followed. Although there were provincial booksellers the centre of the trade was St. Paul's Churchyard. When the Great Fire of London began in 1666 the booksellers put most of their stock in the vaults of the church, where it was destroyed. The Restoration also restored the office of Licenser of the Press, which continued until 1694.\n\nIn the first copyright statute, the Statute of Anne (1709), which specially relates to booksellers, it is enacted that, if any person shall think the published price of a book unreasonably high, he may make a complaint to the Archbishop of Canterbury, and to certain other persons named, who shall examine his complaint, and if well founded reduce the price; and any bookseller charging more than the price so fixed shall be fined £5 for every copy sold. The complaint procedure prescribed in this statute was apparently never used.\n\nModern book selling has changed dramatically with the advent of the computer. With major websites such as Amazon, eBay, and other book distributors offering affiliate programs, book sales can be facilitated through an affiliate program.\n\nFor later times it is necessary to make a gradual distinction between \"booksellers\", whose trade consists in selling books, either by retail or wholesale, and \"publishers\", whose business involves the production of the books from the author's manuscripts, and who are the intermediaries between author and bookseller, just as the booksellers (in the restricted sense) are intermediaries between the author and publisher and the public. The convenience of this distinction is not impaired by the fact either that a publisher is also a wholesale bookseller, or that a still more recent development in publishing started a reaction to some extent in the way of amalgamating the two functions. The scheme of \"The Times\" Book Club (started in 1905) was, again, a combination of a subscription library with the business of bookselling and it brought the organization of a newspaper, with all its means of achieving publicity, into the work of promoting the sale of books, in a way which practically introduced a new factor into the bookselling business.\n\nJames Lackington is credited as the person responsible for changing this profession. His bookshop, known as \"The Temple of the Muses,\" was in Finsbury Square in north London. http://www.templeofthemuses.org/\n\nDuring the 19th century it remains the fact that the distinction between publisher and bookseller—literary promoter and shopkeeper—became fundamental. The booksellers, as such, were\nengaged either in wholesale bookselling, or in the retail, the old or second-hand (now includes rare and very old books trade, called antiquarian books), and the periodicals publishing or retailing trades.\n\nComing between the publisher and the retail bookseller is the important distributing agency of the \"wholesale bookseller\". It is to him that the retailer and libraries look for supplies, as it is impossible to stock all of the books published. Paternoster Row, London, was for over a hundred years the centre of this industry, where retail booksellers, busily engaged in obtaining the books ordered by the book-buying public. It is where the publisher calls first on showing or \"subscribing\" a new book, a critical process, for by the number thus ordered the fate of a book is sometimes determined. In the United States, Baker & Taylor is a major distributor.\n\nWhat may be termed the third partner in publishing is the \"retail bookseller\"; and to protect their interests there was established in 1890 a London booksellers' society, which had for its object the restriction of discounts to 25%, and also to arrange prices generally and control all details connected with the trade. The society a few years afterwards widened its field of operations so as to include the whole of the United Kingdom, and it became \"The Associated Booksellers of Great Britain and Ireland.\"\n\nThe history of bookselling in the United States is of special interest.\nThe Spanish settlements drew away from the old country much of its enterprise and best talent, and the presses of Mexico and other cities teemed with publications mostly of a religious character, but many others, especially linguistic and historical, were also published. Bookselling in the United States was of a somewhat later growth, although printing and bookselling was introduced into Cambridge, Massachusetts, as early as 1640 by Hezekiah Usher and by Usher in 1652 in Boston. Bookselling was happening in Philadelphia in 1685, and New York in 1693. Franklin had served to make the trade illustrious, yet few persons were engaged in it at the commencement of the 19th century. Books chiefly for scholars and libraries were imported from Europe; but after the War of 1812 printing-presses multiplied rapidly, and with the spread of newspapers and education there also arose a demand for books, and publishers set to work to secure the advantages offered by the wide field of English literature, the whole of which they had the liberty of reaping free of all cost beyond that of production. The works of Walter Scott, Lord Byron, Thomas Moore, Robert Southey, William Wordsworth, and indeed of every author of note, were reprinted without the smallest payment to author or proprietor. Half the names of the authors in the so-called \"American\" catalogue of books printed between 1820 and 1852 are British. These titles were made available and affordable to the public. In consequence of the Civil War, the high price of labour, and the restrictive duties laid on in order to protect native industry, coupled with the frequent dealings with England, a great change took place, and American publishers and booksellers, while there was still no international copyright, made liberal offers for early sheets of new publications. Boston, New York and Philadelphia still retained their old supremacy as bookselling centres. Meanwhile, the distinct publishing business also grew, until gradually the conditions of business became assimilated to those of Europe.\n\nBookselling is a profession historically dominated by white Americans, but African Americans developed their own tradition of book selling, particularly in conjunction with radical political movements such as abolitionism, black nationalism, Black Power, and Marxism. The first documented African American bookstore was owned and operated by the abolitionist David Ruggles in the 1830s in New York City. In the years of the civil rights and Black Power era of the 1950s and 1960s, Lewis Michaux's National Memorial African Bookstore became arguably the most prominent Black-owned bookstore in the United States. In the 1980s and '90s, Clara Villarosa's Hue Man Books became the most prominent Black-owned bookstore in the nation, first in Denver and later in Harlem.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51323657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51323657", "title": "Circle Theatre Chicago", "text": "Circle Theatre Chicago\n\nCircle Theatre Chicago founded in 1985 by Karen Skinner, Joe Bass, and Wayne Buidens, is a theatre company in Oak Park and Chicago, Illinois. They chose the name \"Circle Theatre\" to represent both Circle Avenue (Forest Park's main thoroughfare) and the concept of infinity. Their work began in public buildings, and then settled in a church in 1987. A few years later, a fire destroyed the church and forced Circle to find its own space. The company was led by Karen Skinner until 1998 when she turned the artistic leadership over to her daughter Alena Murguia, and two company members Tony Vezner and Greg Kolack. The company left its building in 2012 to produce plays in a series of rented spaces in Chicago.\n\nThe company is noted for producing new works; Rebecca Gilman's The Glory of Living had its premier at The Circle in 1996.\n\nKevin Bellie (born May 8, 1971) was artistic director from 2003-2012. Bob Knuth was Producing Director and resident Scenic/Graphic Designer for Circle Theatre Chicago in Forest Park from 2001-2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "31604801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31604801", "title": "Cook Islands art", "text": "Cook Islands art\n\nWood carving is a common art form in the Cook Islands. Sculpture in stone is much rarer although there are some excellent carvings in basalt by Mike Taveoni. The proximity of islands in the southern group helped produce a homogeneous style of carving but which had special developments in each island. Rarotonga is known for its fisherman's gods and staff-gods, Atiu for its wooden seats, Mitiaro, Mauke and Atiu for mace and slab gods and Mangaia for its ceremonial adzes. Most of the original wood carvings were either spirited away by early European collectors or were burned in large numbers by missionary zealots.\n\nToday, carving is no longer the major art form with the same spiritual and cultural emphasis given to it by the Maori in New Zealand. However, there are continual efforts to interest young people in their heritage and some good work is being turned out under the guidance of older carvers. Atiu, in particular, has a strong tradition of crafts both in carving and local fibre arts such as tapa. Mangaia is the source of many fine adzes carved in a distinctive, idiosyncratic style with the so-called double-k design. Mangaia also produces food pounders carved from the heavy calcite found in its extensive limestone caves.\n\nCarving was an important part of ancient Cook Islands culture, although much of this is lost. Ancient Cook Islanders carved the poles of their huts, their canoes and weapons (clubs and spears). The patterns used were the same as that used in tattooing and dyed on tapa cloth. It is believed that families had their own symbols, much like some British families have crests.\n\nCult figures called staff-gods or \"atua rakau\" from Rarotonga, apparently combine images of gods with their human descendants. They range in length between 28 inches (71 cm) and 18 feet (5.5 m) and were carried and displayed horizontally. At one end there is a schematized blade-shaped head and arms of the progenitive god with a succession of little figures rising from his body, alternatively full-face and in profile with penis erect. The staff itself terminated in a phallus. But this elaborately carved sexual imagery had less importance for the Rarotongans than the feathers and pieces of shell representing the soul of the god and enclosed in yards of bark cloth wound around the center of the staff.\n\nA number of images called the fisherman's god are found in museums. These images are likely to be of the sea god \"Tangaroa\". Their function rests solely on the authority of John Williams, who figured one of them and referred to it thus:\n\n\"An idol, of which the figure on the opposite side is a correct representation, was placed on the fore part of every fishing canoe; and when the natives were going on a fishing expedition, prior to setting off, they invariably presented offerings to the god, and invoked him to grant them success.\" \n\nThe outer islands produce traditional weaving of fans, mats, basketware and hats. Particularly fine examples of \"rito\" hats are worn by women to church on Sundays. They are made from the uncurled fibre of the coconut palm and are of very high quality. The Polynesian equivalent of Panama hats, they are highly valued and are keenly sought by Polynesian visitors from Tahiti. Often, they are decorated with hatbands made of minuscule \"pupu\" shells which are painted and stitched on by hand. Although \"pupu\" are found on other islands, the collection and use of them in decorative work has become a speciality of Mangaia.\n\nTattooing was forbidden in the Cook Islands after the arrival of missionaries, but has recently become popular again. Historically the Cook Islands tribes or clans each usually recognized a particular fish, bird, insect or plant that was sacred to that tribe and symbolized its unity. The ritual association requires members of the clan to treat the totem with respect. Its supernatural help could also be sought in times of distress. The symbol for the centipede with a poisonous bite is a common totem of chiefs and was normally tattooed on the chief's back.\n\nCaptain James Cook recorded \"tatau\" as the Tahitian term when he arrived there in 1769, although tatau is not the only word for this art form. In some French Polynesian islands and some Cook Islands it was known as \"nana'o\".\n\nA major art form peculiar to the Cook Islands is \"tīvaevae\". This is needlework, specifically the making of patchwork quilts by hand. The designs are stunning. These beautiful and intricate works are made by women. They have great intrinsic value and become family heirlooms.\n\nThey are often given as gifts of love and friendship. They supplanted the traditional giving of tapa cloth on ceremonial occasions such as weddings, funerals and hair-cutting. Tivaevae is a communal activity and several women will work on them together. The original idea was introduced by the wives of missionaries from England and nuns from Tahiti who taught embroidery, needlework, sewing and crochet.\n\nTivaevae has played an important role in the daily life of Cook Island women. Since it is largely a social activity, it is nearly always carried out communally, it has had a major impact on the lives of the many women who practise it. Despite its European origin, patterns and techniques have evolved into styles which now belong quite distinctly to the Cooks. The tivaevae reflect the women's surroundings and usually employ designs of flowers, leaves, birds, fish, insects and animals.\n\nContemporary Artists Eruera Nia and Tim Buchanan are featured at the new International Terminal, Rarotonga Airport. 36 of Nia's concrete casts are positioned throughout the terminal while Buchanan's 10 metre mural farewell's passengers as they are processed through customs and security. In late 2010, two of Nia's sculptures were acquired for the permanent collection of the National Gallery of Australia. Buchanan will exhibit with BCA Gallery, Rarotonga in 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13178917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13178917", "title": "Crunchiness", "text": "Crunchiness\n\nCrunchiness is the sensation of muffled grinding of a foodstuff. Crunchiness differs from crispness in that a crisp item is quickly atomized, while a crunchy one offers sustained, granular resistance to jaw action. While crispness is difficult to maintain, crunchiness is difficult to overcome.\n\nCrunchy foods are associated with freshness.\n\nCrispness and crunchiness can each be \"assessed on the basis of sound alone, on the basis of oral-tactile clues alone, or on the basis of a combination of auditory and oral-tactile information\". An acoustic frequency of 1.9 kHz seems to mark the threshold between the two sensations, with crunchiness at frequencies below, and crispness at frequencies above.\n\nCrunchy food breaks at speeds faster than the speed of sound. The sound of crunching food is therefore \"a tiny sonic boom\".\n\nCrunchy foods include:\n\n"}
{"id": "779384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=779384", "title": "Diane English", "text": "Diane English\n\nDiane English (born May 18, 1948) is an American screenwriter, producer and director, best known for creating the television show \"Murphy Brown\" and writing and directing the 2008 feature film \"The Women\".\n\nEnglish was born in Buffalo, New York, the daughter of Anne English and Richard English who was an electrical engineer. She graduated from Nardin Academy in Buffalo, and then from Buffalo State College in 1970.\n\nEnglish began her career at WNET, the PBS affiliate in New York City, working first as a story editor for \"The Theatre in America\" series, and then as associate director of \"TV Lab\". From 1977 to 1980, she wrote a monthly column on television for \"Vogue\" magazine.\n\nIn 1980, she co-wrote PBS' \"The Lathe of Heaven\", an adaptation of Ursula K. LeGuin's classic science fiction novel of the same name, and received her first Writers Guild Award Nomination. She followed that with the television movies \"Her Life as a Man\" (1984) and \"Classified Love\" (1986).\n\nIn 1985, English created \"Foley Square (TV series)\", her first half-hour comedy series, which aired on CBS during the 1985-1986 television season. It starred Margaret Colin, Hector Elizondo , Michael Lembeck, and Jon Lovitz. The show premiered on December 11, 1985, and languished near the bottom of the Nielsen ratings in the weeks that followed. After being put on hiatus after only 11 episodes, CBS rescheduled it to another night and aired the three remaining episodes of the season. With ratings low, CBS cancelled the show after only 14 episodes with the last episode airing on April 8, 1986. During 1986 and 1987, English executive produced and wrote the CBS comedy series \"My Sister Sam\", starring Pam Dawber which lasted for two seasons with 12 episodes that never aired before being cancelled.\n\nIn 1988, she created the CBS television series \"Murphy Brown\", for which she won three Emmy Awards (one for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series and two for Outstanding Comedy Series). The series ran from 1988 to 1998 for a total of 247 episodes. It garnered 18 Emmy wins from 62 nominations. In 1992, English stirred up controversy when the title character decided to have a child out of wedlock. Vice president Dan Quayle gave a speech entitled \"Reflections on Urban America to the Commonwealth Club of California\" on the subject of the Los Angeles riots. In this speech, Quayle blamed the violence on a decay of moral values and family structure in American society. In an aside, he cited the title character in the television program Murphy Brown as an example of how popular culture contributes to this \"poverty of values\", saying, \"It doesn't help matters when prime time TV has Murphy Brown – a character who supposedly epitomizes today's intelligent, highly paid, professional woman – mocking the importance of fathers, by bearing a child alone, and calling it just another 'lifestyle choice'.\n\nEnglish responded with a statement that read: \"If the vice president thinks it's disgraceful for an unmarried woman to bear children (out of wedlock), and if he believes that a woman cannot adequately raise a child without a father, then he'd better make sure abortion remains safe and legal.\" In 2002, Candice Bergen, the actress who played Brown, said \"I never have really said much about the whole episode, which was endless, but his speech was a perfectly intelligent speech about fathers not being dispensable and nobody agreed with that more than I did.\" This controversy along with the shifting times of that decade touched off a debate over the meaning of \"family values\" of Americans during that election year in which Bill Clinton and Al Gore ran against George H.W. Bush and Dan Quayle.\n\nEnglish also created the comedy series \"Love & War\" (1992–1995), starring Susan Dey and Jay Thomas - Annie Potts replaced Dey after the first season. Other series she co-created and/or executive produced include \" Double Rush\" (1995), \"Ink\" (1996), and \"The Louie Show\", starring Louie Anderson (1996), and \"Living in Captivity\" (1998). Unfortunately, none of the series were picked up for more than a single season with \"The Louie Show\" lasting six episodes.\n\nIn 2008, English wrote, produced and directed \"The Women\", her feature film debut. The comedy, a remake of the 1939 George Cukor film of the same name, stars Meg Ryan, Annette Bening, Eva Mendes, Debra Messing, and Jada Pinkett Smith. It was released to mostly negative reviews but tripled its budget when worldwide markets were factored in.\nThat same year English and the ensemble cast of \"The Women\" were honored with the Women in Film Crystal award which honors women in communications and media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "734057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=734057", "title": "Elsa Schiaparelli", "text": "Elsa Schiaparelli\n\nElsa Schiaparelli ( ; ; 1890–1973) was an Italian fashion designer. Along with Coco Chanel, her greatest rival, she is regarded as one of the most prominent figures in fashion between the two World Wars. Starting with knitwear, Schiaparelli's designs were heavily influenced by Surrealists like her collaborators Salvador Dalí and Jean Cocteau. Her clients included the heiress Daisy Fellowes and actress Mae West. Schiaparelli did not adapt to the changes in fashion following World War II and her couture house closed in 1954.\n\nElsa Luisa Maria Schiaparelli was born at the Palazzo Corsini, Rome. Her mother, Maria-Luisa, was a Neapolitan aristocrat. Her father, Celestino Schiaparelli, was an accomplished scholar with multiple areas of interest. His studies focused on the Islamic world and the era of the Middle Ages and he was, in addition, an authority on Sanskrit and a curator of medieval manuscripts. He also served as Dean of the University of Rome, where Schiaparelli would herself later go on to study philosophy. His brother, astronomer Giovanni Schiaparelli, had discovered the so-called \"canali\", or Martian canals, and the young Schiaparelli often studied the heavens with her uncle. A cousin of the brothers, Ernesto Schiaparelli, was a noted Egyptologist who discovered the tomb of Nefertari and was Director of the Museo Egizio in Turin.\n\nThe cultural background and erudition of her family members served to ignite the imaginative faculties of Schiaparelli’s impressionable childhood years. She became enraptured with the lore of ancient cultures and religious rites. These sources inspired her to pen a volume of poems titled \"Arethusa\" based on the ancient Greek myth of the hunt. The content of her writing so alarmed the conservative sensibilities of her parents they sought to tame her fantasy life by sending her to a convent boarding school in Switzerland. Once within the school’s confines, Schiaparelli rebelled against its strict authority by going on a hunger strike, leaving her parents to see no alternative but to bring her home again.\n\nSchiaparelli was dissatisfied by a lifestyle that whilst refined and comfortable, she considered cloistered and unfulfilling. Her craving for adventure and exploration of the wider world led to her taking measures to remedy this, and when a friend offered her a post caring for orphaned children in an English country house, she saw an opportunity to leave. The placement however, proved uncongenial to Schiaparelli, who subsequently planned a return to the stop-over city of Paris rather than admit defeat by returning to Rome and her family.\n\nSchiaparelli fled to London to avoid the certainty of marriage to a persistent suitor, a wealthy Russian whom her parents favored and for whom she herself felt no attraction. In London, Schiaparelli who had held a fascination for psychic phenomena since childhood, attended a lecture on theosophy. The lecturer that night was Willem de Wendt, a man of various aliases who was also known as Willie Wendt and Wilhem de Kerlor. He was reported to have legally changed his name in England to Wilhelm Frederick Wendt de Kerlor, a combination of his father's last name and mother's maiden name. de Wendt's profession was one of a tireless, inventive self-promoter, in reality a con man who claimed to have psychic powers, and numerous academic credentials. He alternatively and simultaneously passed himself off as detective and criminal psychologist, doctor, and lecturer. In a stint on the vaudeville stage de Kerlor billed himself as \"The World Famous Dr. W. de Kerlor.\" Schiaparelli was immediately attracted to this charismatic charlatan and they became engaged on the very next day of their first meeting. They married shortly thereafter in London on July 21, 1914, Schiaparelli was twenty-three, her new husband thirty. de Kerlor attempted to earn a living aggrandizing his reputation as a psychic practitioner as the couple subsisted primarily on the wedding dowry and an allowance provided by Schiaparelli’s wealthy parents. Schiaparelli played the role of her husband's helpmate and helped facilitate the promotion of his fraudulent schemes. In 1915 the couple were forced to leave England after de Kerlor was deported following his conviction for practicing fortune-telling, then illegal. They subsequently lived a peripatetic existence in Paris, Cannes, Nice, and Monte Carlo, before leaving for America in the spring of 1916.\n\nThe de Kerlors disembarked in New York, initially staying at the Brevoort, a prominent hotel in Greenwich Village, then relocated to an apartment above the Café des Artistes near Central Park West. De Kerlor rented offices to house his newly inaugurated \"Bureau of Psychology\" where he hoped to achieve fame and fortune through his paranormal and consulting work. His wife acted as his assistant, providing clerical support for self-promotions crafted to provide the newspapers with sensational copy, win celebrity and garner acclaim. During this period de Kerlor came under the surveillance of the Federal government’s Bureau of Investigation, (BOI) a precursor of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, (FBI), not only for his dubious professional practices but also on suspicion of harboring anti-British and pro-German allegiance during wartime. By 1917, de Kerlor’s acquaintance with journalists John Reed and Louise Bryant had positioned him on the government radar as a possible Bolshevik sympathizer and Communist revolutionary. Attempting to avoid this unremitting scrutiny, the de Kerlors decamped to Boston in 1918, where they continued their activities as they had done in New York. De Kerlor, an incurable publicity hound, made imprudent admissions to a BOI investigator in prideful support of the Russian Revolution and went so far as to admit to an association with a notorious anarchist, whilst his wife incriminated herself by revealing that she was tutoring Italians in Boston’s North End on the tenets of Bolshevism and that she herself had the knowledge to assemble explosive devices. Both were ultimately spared prosecution or deportation, the authorities concluding that such admissions so freely given were more indicative of foolish grandstanding than evidence of individuals who were a threat to society.\n\nAlmost immediately after their child, Maria Luisa Yvonne Radha (nicknamed 'Gogo'), was born on June 15, 1920, de Kerlor moved out leaving Schiaparelli alone with their newborn daughter. In later years, whenever Gogo asked her mother about her absent father, she was told that he was dead. Schiaparelli apparently made no efforts to bring her husband back or to seek support payments for herself and Gogo. In 1921, the 18-month-old Gogo was diagnosed with polio, which proved a stressful and protracted challenge for both mother and child. Years later Gogo recalled spending her early years in plaster casts and on crutches, with a largely absent mother who she barely saw. Fearing that de Kerlor would attempt to gain legal custody of Gogo, Schiaparelli had the child's surname legally changed to Schiaparelli prior to their return to France in 1922.\n\nSchiaparelli relied greatly on the emotional support offered her by her close friend Gabrielle 'Gaby' Buffet-Picabia, the wife of Dada/Surrealist artist Francis Picabia, who she had first met on board ship during the transatlantic crossing to America in 1916. Following de Kerlor's desertion, Schiaparelli returned to New York, attracted to its spirit of fresh beginnings and cultural vibrancy. Her interest in spiritualism translated into a natural affinity for the art of the Dada and Surrealist movements, and her friendship with Gaby Picabia facilitated entry into this creative circle which comprised noteworthy members such as Man Ray, Marcel Duchamp, Alfred Stieglitz and Edward Steichen. Although technically still married, Schiaparelli took a lover, the opera singer Mario Laurenti, but this relationship was cut short after Laurenti's death in 1922 after a sudden illness. Whilst they were together, de Kerlor had purportedly conducted affairs with the dancer Isadora Duncan and the actress Alla Nazimova.\n\nSchiaparelli and de Kerlor were eventually divorced in March 1924. In 1928, de Kerlor was murdered in Mexico under circumstances never fully revealed.\n\nFollowing the lead of Gabrielle Picabia and others, and after the death of her lover Laurenti, Schiaparelli left New York for France in 1922. Upon her arrival in Paris, she took an expansive apartment in a fashionable quarter of the city taking on the requisite servants, cook and maid. The self-made associations she formed over the years along with the eminent social position held by her Italian family combined to ensure that she would be embraced by desirable social circles on her return to France.\n\nAlthough never threatened with destitution as she continued to receive financial support from her mother, Schiaparelli nevertheless felt the need to earn an independent income. She assisted Man Ray with his Dada magazine \"Société Anonyme\", which proved short lived. Gaby Picabia then suggested a business enterprise which would be beneficial to herself and Schiaparelli. Connected to the French couturier Paul Poiret through her association with his sister Nicole Groult, Picabia proposed that they sell French couture in America. This proposed project, however, never became a viable enterprise and was abandoned.\n\nSchiaparelli’s design career was early on influenced by couturier Paul Poiret, who was renowned for jettisoning corseted, over-long dresses and promoting styles that enabled freedom of movement for the modern, elegant and sophisticated woman. In later life, Schiaparelli referred to Poiret as \"a generous mentor, dear friend.\"\n\nSchiaparelli had no training in the technical skills of pattern making and clothing construction. Her method of approach relied on both impulse of the moment and the serendipitous inspiration as the work progressed. She draped fabric directly on the body, sometimes using herself as the model. This technique followed the lead of Poiret who too had created garments by manipulating and draping. The results appeared uncontrived and wearable.\n\nWhilst in Paris, Schiaparelli - \"Schiap\" to her friends - began making her own clothes. With encouragement from Poiret, she started her own business but it closed in 1926 despite favourable reviews. She launched a new collection of knitwear in early 1927 using a special double layered stitch created by Armenian refugees and featuring sweaters with surrealist trompe l'oeil images. Although her first designs appeared in \"Vogue\", the business really took off with a pattern that gave the impression of a scarf wrapped around the wearer's neck. The \"pour le Sport\" collection expanded the following year to include bathing suits, ski-wear, and linen dresses. Schiaparelli added evening wear to her collections in 1931, using the luxury silks of Robert Perrier, and the business went from strength to strength, culminating in a move from Rue de la Paix to acquiring the renowned salon of Louise Chéruit at 21 Place Vendôme, which was rechristened the \"Schiap Shop\".\n\nColin McDowell noted that by 1939, Schiaparelli was well-known enough in intellectual circles to be mentioned as the epitome of modernity by the Irish poet Louis MacNeice. Although McDowell cites MacNeice's reference as from \"Bagpipe Music\", it is actually from stanza XV of \"Autumn Journal\".\n\nA darker tone was set when France declared war on Germany in 1939. Schiaparelli's Spring 1940 collection featured \"trench\" brown and camouflage print taffetas. Soon after the fall of Paris on 14 June 1940, Schiaparelli sailed to New York for a lecture tour; apart from a few months in Paris in early 1941, she remained in New York City until the end of the war. On her return she found that fashions had changed, with Christian Dior's \"New Look\" marking a rejection of pre-war fashion. The house of Schiaparelli struggled in the austerity of the post-war period, and Elsa finally closed the couture house down in December 1954, the same year that her great rival Chanel returned to the business.\n\nAged 64, Schiaparelli wrote her autobiography and then lived out a comfortable retirement between her Paris apartment and house in Tunisia. She died on 13 November 1973.\n\nSchiaparelli was one of the first designers to develop the wrap dress, taking inspiration from aprons to produce a design that would accommodate and flatter all female body types. Her design, which first appeared in 1930, offered a two-sided model with armholes on each side, brought together in the front of the garment and wrapped and tied at the waistline. Buttons may also have been incorporated into this early version. Initially conceived as beachwear and produced in four colours of tussore silk, the dress was popular with buyers and copied by garment manufacturers as a design for everyday street wear. Some forty years afterwards, this uncomplicated and easy-to-wear design was revisited in the 1970s by the American designer Diane von Fürstenberg.\n\nIn 1931, Schiaparelli's divided skirt - a forerunner of shorts, shocked the tennis world when worn by Lili de Alvarez at Wimbledon in 1931.\n\nOther innovations included a swimsuit design which incorporated an interior bra with an alluring low-cut back by using hidden straps that crossed in the back and closed around the waist. This design was patented in 1930 and retailed by Best & Company. Other designs were made with detachable elements and reversible sections. Also in 1930, she is credited with having produced the first evening dress with a matching jacket. During Prohibition in the United States, Schiaparelli's popularly named \"speakeasy dress\" provided a hidden pocket for a flask for alcoholic beverage.\n\nSchiaparelli is one of the designers credited with offering the first clothes with visible zippers in 1930. Rather than being concealed, zippers became a key element of Schiaparelli's designs, visibly fastening necklines and running down sleeves and skirts. She used chunky plastic zippers made from cellulose nitrate, the first semi-synthetic plastic fabric, and cellulose acetate. Along with Charles James, Schiaparelli had arrangements with the manufacturers to promote their zip fasteners, using specific brands depending on where the garment would be sold (such as Éclair for Paris models, Lightning Fastener Co. for London models, and Hookless Fastener Co. zips for American export models).\n\nSchiaparelli was also renowned for her unusual buttons, which could resemble candlesticks, playing card emblems, ships, crowns, mirrors and crickets; or silver tambourines and silk-covered carrots and cauliflowers. Many of these fastenings were designed by Jean Clemént and Roger Jean-Pierre who also created jewellery for her. In 1936 Schiaparelli was one of the first people to recognise the potential of Jean Schlumberger who she originally employed as a designer of buttons.\n\nSchiaparelli's output also included distinctive costume jewellery in a wide range of novelty designs. One of her most directly Surrealist designs was a 1938 Rhodoid (a newly developed clear plastic) necklace studded with coloured metallic insects by Clément giving the illusion that the bugs were crawling directly on the wearer's skin. During the 1930s her jewellery designs were produced by Schlumberger, Clemént and Jean-Pierre, who also made up designs for buttons and fasteners. Schlumberger's jewellery with its inventive combinations of precious and semi-precious stones proved successful, and at the end of the 1930s, he left to launch his jewellery business in New York. Schiaparelli also offered brooches by Alberto Giacometti, fur-lined metal cuffs by Méret Oppenheim, and pieces by Max Boinet, Lina Baretti, and the writer Elsa Triolet. Compared to her unusual couture 1930s pieces, 1940s and 1950s Schiaparelli jewellery tended to be more abstract or floral-themed.\n\nSchiaparelli was noted for her use of innovative textiles which were woven to resemble textures such as tree bark or crepe paper; a plush made to mimic ermine; and novelty prints including a fabric patterned with newspaper clippings. She made garments from crumpled rayon 50 years before Issey Miyake produced similarly pleated and crinkled pieces. Schiaparelli enjoyed playing with juxtapositions of colours, shapes and textures, and embraced the new technologies and materials of the time. With Charles Colcombet she experimented with acrylic, cellophane, a rayon jersey called \"Jersela\" and a rayon with metal threads called \"Fildifer\" - the first time synthetic materials had been used in couture. Some of these innovations were not pursued further, like her 1934 \"glass\" cape made from Rhodophane, a transparent plastic related to cellophane. Making clothes from these new and untested fabrics posed unexpected hazards - Diana Vreeland had a Schiaparelli dress melt at the dry cleaners' after its synthetic fabric reverted to chemical sludge upon contact with the cleaning fluids.\n\nSchiaparelli's fanciful imaginative powers coupled with involvement in the Dada/Surrealist art movements directed her into new creative territory. Her instinctive sensibilities soon came to distinguish her creations from her chief rival Coco Chanel, who referred to her as 'that Italian artist who makes clothes'. Schiaparelli collaborated with a number of contemporary artists, most famously with Salvador Dalí, to develop a number of her most notable designs. Schiaparelli also had a good relationship with other artists including Leonor Fini, Méret Oppenheim, and Alberto Giacometti.\n\nIn 1937 Schiaparelli collaborated with the artist Jean Cocteau to produce two of her most notable art-themed designs for that year's Autumn collection. An evening jacket was embroidered with a female figure with one hand caressing the waist of the wearer, and long blonde hair cascading down one sleeve. A long evening coat featured two profiles facing each other, creating the optical illusion of a vase of roses. The embroidering of both garments was executed by the couture embroiderers Lesage.\n\nThe designs Schiaparelli produced in collaboration with Dalí are among her best known. In addition to well-documented collaborations such as the shoe hat and the Lobster, Tears and Skeleton dresses, Dalí's influence has been identified in designs such as the lamb-cutlet hat and a 1936-day suit with pockets simulating a chest of drawers. While Schiaparelli did not formally name her designs, the four main garments from her partnership with Dalí are popularly known as follows:\n\nThe 1937 Lobster Dress was a simple white silk evening dress with a crimson waistband featuring a large lobster painted (by Dalí) onto the skirt. From 1934, Dalí had started incorporating lobsters into his work, including \"New York Dream-Man Finds Lobster in Place of Phone\" shown in the magazine American Weekly in 1935, and the mixed-media Lobster Telephone (1936). His design for Schiaparelli was interpreted into a fabric print by the leading silk designer Sache. It was famously worn by Wallis Simpson in a series of photographs by Cecil Beaton taken at the Château de Candé shortly before her marriage to Edward VIII.\n\nThe Tears Dress, a slender pale blue evening gown printed with a Dalí design of trompe l'oeil rips and tears, worn with a thigh-length veil with \"real\" tears carefully cut out and lined in pink and magenta, was part of the February 1938 \"Circus Collection\". The print was intended to give the illusion of torn animal flesh, the tears printed to represent fur on the reverse of the fabric and suggest that the dress was made of animal pelts turned inside out. Figures in ripped, skin-tight clothing suggesting flayed flesh appeared in three of Dalí's 1936 paintings, one of which, \"Necrophiliac Springtime\", was owned by Schiaparelli; the other two are \"The Dream Places A Hand on a Man's Shoulder\" and \"Three Young Surrealist Women Holding in Their Arms the Skins of an Orchestra\". Richard Martin saw the Tears Dress as a \"memento mori\" produced in response to the Spanish Civil War and the spread of Fascism, declaring that to \"tear the dress is to deny its customary decorum and utility, and to question the matter of concealment and revelation in the garment.\" He noted that even if the tears in the dress were mere ornament like slashing, the real tears on the veil negated this, offering visual disagreements between reality and pretence.\n\nDalí also helped Schiaparelli design the Skeleton Dress for the \"Circus Collection\". It was a stark black crepe dress which used trapunto quilting to create padded ribs, spine, and leg bones.\n\nIn 1933, Dalí was photographed by his wife Gala Dalí with one of her slippers balanced on his head. In 1937 he sketched designs for a shoe hat for Schiaparelli, which she featured in her Fall-Winter 1937-38 collection. The hat, shaped like a woman's high heeled shoe, had the heel standing straight up and the toe tilted over the wearer's forehead. This hat was worn by Gala Dalí, Schiaparelli herself, and by the Franco-American editor of the French Harper's Bazaar, heiress Daisy Fellowes, who was one of Schiaparelli's best clients.\n\nSchiaparelli designed the wardrobe for several films, starting with the French version of 1933's \"Topaze\", and ending with Zsa Zsa Gabor's outfits for the 1952 biopic of Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, \"Moulin Rouge\" in which Gabor played Jane Avril. \"Moulin Rouge\" won Marcel Vertès an Academy Award for Costume Design, although Schiaparelli's role in costuming the leading lady went unacknowledged beyond a prominent on-screen credit for Gabor's costumes. Authentically, Gabor's costumes were directly based upon Toulouse-Lautrec's portraits of Avril.\n\nShe famously dressed Mae West for \"Every Day's a Holiday\" (1937) using a mannequin based on West's measurements, which inspired the torso bottle for \"Shocking\" perfume.\n\nSchiaparelli's perfumes were noted for their unusual packaging and bottles. Her best-known perfume was \"Shocking!\" (1936), contained in a bottle sculpted by Leonor Fini in the shape of a woman's torso inspired by Mae West's tailor's dummy and Dalí paintings of flower-sellers. The packaging, also designed by Fini, was in shocking pink, one of Schiaparelli's signature colours which was said to have been inspired by Daisy Fellowes' \"Tête de Belier\" (Ram's Head) pink diamond.\n\nOther perfumes included:\n\n\nThe failure of her business meant that Schiaparelli's name is not as well remembered as that of her great rival Chanel. But in 1934, \"Time\" placed Chanel in the second division of fashion, whereas Schiaparelli was one of \"a handful of houses now at or near the peak of their power as arbiters of the ultra-modern haute couture...Madder and more original than most of her contemporaries, Mme Schiaparelli is the one to whom the word \"genius\" is applied most often\". At the same time Time recognised that Chanel had assembled a fortune of some US$15m despite being \"not at present the most dominant influence in fashion\", whereas Schiaparelli relied on inspiration rather than craftsmanship and \"it was not long before every little dress factory in Manhattan had copied them and from New York's 3rd Avenue to San Francisco's Howard Street millions of shop girls who had never heard of Schiaparelli were proudly wearing her models\".\n\nThe House of Schiaparelli was first opened in the 1930s at 21 Place Vendôme, but was shut down on 13 December 1954. In 2007, an Italian business man Diego Della Valle acquired the brand, but it wasn't until Marco Zanini was appointed in September 2013 that details of the brand's revival became public. The house has been nominated for a return to the Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture list of members, and presented its first show since nomination in January 2014. Schiaparelli, using a hyper-exclusive business strategy, is to sell its first collection exclusively at a by-appointment boutique in Paris.\n\n\nSchiaparelli's two granddaughters, from her daughter's marriage to shipping executive Robert L. Berenson, were model Marisa Berenson and photographer Berry Berenson. Both sisters appeared regularly in Vogue in the early 1970s. Berry was married to the actor Anthony Perkins, with whom she had two children, the actor Oz Perkins and the musician Elvis Perkins. In 2014, Marisa collaborated with Hubert de Givenchy to publish the book \"Elsa Schiaparelli’s Private Album\" which reproduced photographs from her grandmother's personal archives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11250830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11250830", "title": "Famine-33", "text": "Famine-33\n\nFamine-33 (, \"Holod-33\") is a 1991 drama film by Oles Yanchuk about the Holodomor famine in Ukraine, and based on the novel \"The Yellow Prince\" by Vasyl Barka. The film is told through the lives of the Katrannyk family of six.\n\n\"In an early scene, the members of an impoverished farming family solemnly take turns dipping their ladles into the single bowl of watery soup that is their only meal of the day. Later in the film, scores of villagers numb with despair and hunger huddle silently in the pouring rain outside a Government office until a truckload of armed soldiers arrives to disperse them. In the most poignant scene, a little boy who has lost his parents calls for his mother as he wanders, panic-stricken, through a snowy woodland where the trees are outnumbered by crosses marking the dead.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1682176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1682176", "title": "Funerary hatchment", "text": "Funerary hatchment\n\nA funerary hatchment is a depiction within a black lozenge-shaped frame, generally on a black (\"sable\") background, of a deceased's heraldic achievement, that is to say the escutcheon showing the arms, together with the crest and supporters of his family or person. Regimental Colours and other military or naval emblems are sometimes placed behind the arms of military or naval officers. Such funerary hatchments, generally therefore restricted in use to members of the nobility or armigerous gentry, used to be hung on the wall of a deceased person's house, and were later transferred to the parish church, often within the family chapel therein which appertained to the manor house, the family occupying which, generally being lord of the manor, generally held the advowson of the church. In Germany, the approximate equivalent is a , literally \"death shield\".\n\n\"Hatchment\" is a corruption (through such historic forms as \"atcheament, achement, hathement\", etc.) of the French \"achevèment\", from the verb \"achever\", a contraction of \"a chef venir\" (\"to come to a head\"), ultimately from Latin \"ad caput venire\", \"to come to a head\", thus to reach a conclusion, accomplish, achieve. The word in its historical usage is thus identical in meaning and origin to the English heraldic term achievement. However in recent years the word \"hatchment\" has come to be used almost exclusively to denote \"funerary hatchment\", whilst \"achievement\" is now used in place of \"hatchment\" in a non-funereal context. An example of the historic use of \"hatchment\" in a non-funerary context is in the statute of the Order of the Garter laid down by King Henry VIII (1509-1547) concerning the regulation of Garter stall plates:\n\"It is agreed that every knyght within the yere of his stallation shall cause to be made a scauchon of his armes and hachementis in a plate of metall suche as shall please him and that it shall be surely sett upon the back of his stall\".\nThe word appears in Shakespeare's play \"Hamlet\" (1599/1602): Laertes laments that his dead father Polonius has \"No trophy, sword or hatchment o'er his bones\" (Act IV, Scene 5).\n\nThe funerary hatchment was usually placed over the entrance door of the deceased's residence at the level of the second floor, and remained \"in situ\" for six to twelve months, after which it was removed to the parish church. The practice developed in the early 17th century from the custom of carrying an heraldic shield before the coffin of the deceased, then leaving it for display in the church. Funerary hatchments also survive displayed in homes or local museums. In medieval times and later, helmets and shields were sometimes deposited in churches, and helmets (made for the purpose) survive for example in the churches of Iron Acton in Gloucestershire and King's Nympton in Devon.\n\nAt the universities of Oxford and Cambridge it was usual to hang the funerary hatchment of a deceased head of house over the entrance to his lodge or residence.\n\nIn the 21st century the display of funerary hatchments has largely been discontinued, except in the case of royalty and occasionally by the higher nobility, but many ancient funerary hatchments survive displayed in parish churches throughout England.\n\nFor a bachelor the hatchment bears his heraldic achievement (shield, crest, supporters and other appendages) on a black lozenge. For a spinster, her arms are represented upon a lozenge, bordered with knotted ribbons, also on a black lozenge. In the case of a married man with a surviving wife, within his funerary hatchment is an escutcheon displaying his arms impale the paternal arms of his wife. If she should be an heraldic heiress her paternal arms are placed upon an inescutcheon of pretence, and crest and other appendages are added. The dexter half of the background is black (the husband being dead), whilst the sinister half of the background is white (his wife still being alive).\n\nFor a deceased woman whose husband is alive the same arrangement is used, but the sinister background is black (for the wife) and the dexter background is white (for the surviving husband). For a widower the same is used as for a married man, but the whole ground is black (both spouses being dead). For a widow the husband's arms are given with her own, but upon a lozenge in place of an escutcheon, with ribbons, without crest or appendages, with the whole of the ground black. When there have been two wives or two husbands the ground may be divided in a number of different ways. Sometimes the shield is divided into three parts \"per pale\" (vertical divisions), with the husband's arms in the middle section and the arms of each of his wives to each side of his. Sometimes the husband's arms remain in the dexter half and the two wives have their arms in the sinister half, divided \"per fess\" (horizontal divisions), each wife having one quarter of the whole shield, that is one half of the sinister half.\n\nIn Scottish funerary hatchments it was not unusual to place the arms of the father and mother of the deceased in the two lateral angles of the lozenge, and sometimes there are 4, 8 or 16 genealogical escutcheons ranged along the margin.\n\nIn the Netherlands hatchments (in Dutch, \"rouwbord\", literally meaning \"mourning shield\") with the word \"OBIIT\" (Latin:\"deceased\") and the date of death were hung over the door of the deceased's house and later on the wall of the church where he was buried. In the 17th century the hatchments were sober black lozenge-shaped frames with the coat of arms. In the 18th century both the frames and the heraldry got more and more elaborate. Symbols of death like batwings, skulls, hour-glasses and crying angels with torches were added and the names of the 8, 16 or even 32 armigerous forebearers (sometimes an invention, there were a lot of \"nouveaux riches\") and their genealogical escutcheons were displayed. The British tradition of differentiating between the hatchments of bachelors, widowers and others is unknown in the Low Countries. The arms of a widow are sometimes surrounded by a cordelière (knotted cord) and the arms of women are often, but not always, shaped like a lozenge. There were no Kings of Arms to rule and regulate these traditions.\n\nIn 1795 the Dutch republic, recently conquered by revolutionary France, issued a decree that banned all heraldic shields. Thousands of hatchments were chopped to pieces and burned. In the 19th century the hatchments were almost forgotten and only a few noble families kept the tradition alive.\n\nIn Flanders, the clergy of the Roman Catholic Church have kept the tradition of putting up hatchments alive to this day. Noble families have continued to put up hatchments in churches.\n\nUnlike the British hatchments the Dutch and Belgian examples are often inscribed with dates of birth and death, often the Latin words \"obit\", \"nascent\" and \"svea\" are used to give the dates of death and birth and the age of the deceased. The name and titles are sometimes added along with the arms of various ancestors.\n\nSometimes the coats of arms of man and woman are shown on a hatchment.\n\nOnly about fifty hatchments still exist in Scotland, unlike the many to be found in England and the Netherlands, where there may well be more Scots hatchments surviving than in Scotland. Part of this is undoubtedly due to the Church of Scotland in the mid 17th century. In 1643 the General Assembly passed an Act in 1643 which prohibited 'Honours of Arms or any such like monuments' to be displayed in any church. A surviving document of Strathbogie in Aberdeenshire records that: \"Att Grange, 19th December, 1649... the presbytry finding some pinselis in memorie of the dead hinging in the kirk, presentlie caused them to be pulled doun in face of presbytry, and the minister rebuiked for suffering to hing ther so long.\"\n\nScots hatchments do not follow in the sparse pattern that modern writers prescribe for hatchments and funeral heraldry, being sometimes quite highly decorated with the coats of antecedents and with tears, skulls (mort heads) and mantles.\n\nHatchments, and funeral heraldry in general, are discussed in a 1986 article by Charles J Burnett, Dingwall Pursuivant.\n\nThere are eight hatchments in Nova Scotia, Canada, which are located in St. Paul's Church (Halifax). They include:\nTwenty-nine 18th- and early 19th-century Dutch-style rouwborden are known to survive in the province of the Western Cape, which was a Dutch colony from 1652 to 1806. Twenty-five are in the Groote Kerk in Cape Town, one is in the Western Cape Archives, and the other three are in museums.\n\nDuring the period of Dutch rule, the display of rouwborden was evidently restricted to senior officials and military officers, and a few high-ranking foreign dignitaries who died at the Cape. When the main part of the church building was demolished in 1836, because it had become structurally unsound, the rouwborden were stored in the tower. They were left there after the rebuilt church was completed in 1841, and reportedly deteriorated with the passage of time. Some forty years later, the newly-established Colonial Archives rescued twenty-five of them, and they were displayed in the Archives until the church reclaimed them in 1910. They were then hung in the vestry, and it was not until the 1960s that they were hung in the church itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25053516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25053516", "title": "Hannah Free", "text": "Hannah Free\n\nHannah Free is a 2009 American lesbian romance film, adapted from Claudia Allen's play of the same name. It is a story about living, loving, and letting go. Hannah and Rachel grew up as little girls in the same small Midwest town, where traditional gender expectations eventually challenged their deep love for one another. Hannah becomes an adventurous, unapologetic lesbian and Rachel a strong but quiet homemaker. Weaving back and forth between past and present, the film reveals how the women maintained their love affair despite a marriage, a world war, infidelities, and family denial.\n\n\"Hannah Free\" is a feature-length motion picture shot in HD for distribution in worldwide theatrical and ancillary markets. It stars Sharon Gless, Maureen Gallagher, Kelli Strickland, Ann Hagemann, Taylor Miller, and Jax Jackson. The film is produced by Ripe Fruit Films, LLC.\n\nSet mostly in a nursing home, 70-something Hannah is kept separate from her lifelong friend and lover Rachel, who is not expected to emerge from her coma. The nurses follow the orders of Rachel's daughter Marge, who claims her mother would be upset by a visit from Hannah.\n\nWhile Hannah's heart is breaking at the thought of not being able to say goodbye, her mind is full of memories of their life together, and she is frequently visited by a younger, spirit Rachel. Hannah sees, hears, and experiences her, but to anyone else, Hannah appears to be talking to herself. Frustrated by feeling like a prisoner, Hannah grumbles, pleads to see Rachel, and writes in her journal. The backstory gradually emerges.\n\nHannah transitioned easily from tomboy to openly gay while Rachel gave in to societal expectations, married, raised twins, and kept one foot in the closet most of her life, even though everyone knew about her and Hannah. Having Hannah around was like flying a rainbow flag. Hannah was born to wander. Rachel never left Michigan, but Hannah spent time in Alaska, South America, and during WWII, stationed in New Mexico as a WAC. She had affairs with other women in her travels and they remained good friends, but Rachel always was her true love.\nThere are many flashbacks that show Hannah and Rachel in many aspects of their relationship: being in love, making love, and arguing.\n\nIn the nursing home, Hannah deals with the annoying but well-meaning staff members, a bewildered resident, a nasty evangelist, and an equally nasty Marge. The arrival of 21-year-old Greta serves as a catalyst to get Hannah out of bed and into Rachel's room. Greta poses as a random student doing an interview for class, but turns out to be Rachel's biological great-granddaughter, whom Hannah had only met as a young child. Greta has a complicated relationship with her grandmother, Marge, who has never truly accepted Hannah as any sort of important mother figure. Greta, a young lesbian, is fully committed to the rights of Hannah and Rachel, and schemes to bring the family together.\n\nIn an emotional final scene, Rachel lays comatose, while Hannah, Marge and Greta hash out their differences. Together, they say goodbye to Rachel, and lovingly set her free.\n\n\n\"Hannah Free\" was adapted by Claudia Allen from her own play. Claudia Allen is a playwright-in-residence at Victory Gardens Theater in Chicago. A hallmark of Allen’s plays is the portrayal of strong, compassionate women. Author’s note: “Few plays are written about elderly lesbians. Fewer plays deal with their extreme vulnerability in a system that doesn’t recognize our rights. I wanted to deal with those issues while also creating a love story about two women who loved each other for decades despite a few flaws and more than a few differences.”\n\nWendy Jo Carlton is a filmmaker, writer, and photographer with a background in radio production, teaching, and media activism. Her award-winning narrative and experimental short films have screened internationally, including the American Film Institute, Sundance, and many other festivals. In addition to founding a media literacy program for teen girls called Chicks Make Flicks, Carlton works as a field producer for Sirius Radio and PBS Television.\n\n\"Hannah Free\" was filmed in the historic Prairie Avenue District of Chicago. The Keith House was the main shooting location. The film's art department transformed rooms of the house into all the necessary sets, like the nursing home, Alaska shed, and various living spaces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5464738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5464738", "title": "Io Isabella International Film Week", "text": "Io Isabella International Film Week\n\nIo, Isabella International Film Week is the first film festival in the south of Italy, and the second in Italy, devoted to women and documentary filmmaking. Its Golden Waves award is presented for best female film, best creative documentary, and best firstling (emerging talent).\n\nThe festival takes its name from Isabella Morra, a Renaissance poet of 16th-century Italy. It was first held in Isabella's home, the Castle of Valsinni, from 25 August to 31 August 2005.\n\nThe festival features about 70 films, in two competitions: \n\n\nIt also sponsors satellite programmes including a \"Country in Focus\", talk shows, and various events.\n\nThe 2008 the festival was held in Maratea from July 29 to August 3; and in 2010 in Maratea from August 3 to August 8.\n\n"}
{"id": "14581424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14581424", "title": "Jessica Nilsson", "text": "Jessica Nilsson\n\nJessica Nilsson (born 11 January 1965) is a Swedish director based in Denmark. She directed the feature film \"All About Anna\" (2005).\n\nShe studied at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, and later graduated from the National Film School of Denmark. Her short film \"Pølsen\" won First Prize at the Oslo Short Film Festival 1998.\n\n\"Spotless\" was in competition at the Sundance Film Festival in 2001 and was shown at the Odense Film Festival in 2000, where she received the Danish Directors' Prize of Merit. \"Spotless\" won the Special Jury Prize at Flickerfest 2001 in Sydney. \"All About Anna\" won three Scandinavian Adult Awards, including Best Scandinavian Couples Film, and was nominated for four AVN Awards, including Best Foreign Film.\n\nNilsson writes and directs documentaries, short movies, music videos, commercials, and radio plays. The Danish Association of the Blind awarded her its 2005 Radioplay Award for her radio play \"Flammende kærlighed\", produced by Danmarks Radio.\n\nShe directed a second feature film, \"Sverige er fantastisk\", a road movie starring Lene Maria Christensen, Mette Føns and Erik Clausen. It was shot in 2007 and was released in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "2119137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119137", "title": "Kasper Salin Prize", "text": "Kasper Salin Prize\n\nThe Kasper Salin Prize () is a prize awarded annually by the Swedish Association of Architects to a Swedish building or building project \"of high architectural standard\". It has been awarded since 1962 and was founded with money from a donation by the city architect of Stockholm Kasper Salin (1856-1919). It is considered to be the most prestigious architectural prize in the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "8773696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8773696", "title": "Kerlin Gallery", "text": "Kerlin Gallery\n\nKerlin Gallery is a contemporary art gallery in Dublin, Ireland.\n\nEstablished in Dublin in 1988, Kerlin Gallery has built its international reputation through the representation of leading contemporary artists both from Ireland and abroad. Its current display space, designed in 1994 by architect John Pawson, provides 3,600 square feet spread over two floors and is located in the heart of Dublin close to Grafton Street.\n\nOver the last three decades, the gallery programme has reflected significant trends in international contemporary art with several memorable highlights in both the solo and group exhibitions including Martin Kippenberger and Albert Oehlen (1991), Andy Warhol (1993), Sean Scully (1994, 2004, 2007, 2011, 2015), and Hiroshi Sugimoto (1996, 2000).\n\nIn recent years, the gallery has produced significant solo shows with Liam Gillick, Willie Doherty, Siobhán Hapaska, Phil Collins (artist), David Godbold, Mark Francis (artist), Jaki Irvine, Elizabeth Magill, Sean Scully and Paul Winstanley amongst others.\n\nSeveral gallery artists have been shortlisted for the Turner Prize including Phil Collins (2006), Willie Doherty (1994, 2003), Liam Gillick (2002), Callum Innes (1995), Stephen Mc Kenna (1986) and Sean Scully (1989, 1993). The gallery has also supported artists exhibiting at Venice Biennale since 1988 including Dorothy Cross, Willie Doherty, Liam Gillick, Siobhán Hapaska, Jaki Irvine, Merlin James, William McKeown, Isabel Nolan and Kathy Prendergast (winner of the Premio Nuovo Award 1995).\n\nCritically noted curated group exhibitions include Newfound Landscape, with Uta Barth, Oliver Boberg, Jeff Burton, Walter Niedermayer and Esko Manniko; Kin, with John Currin, Cheryl Donegan, Ellen Gallagher and Sean Landers, and Architecture Schmarchitecture with Isa Genzken, Liam Gillick, Roger Hiorns, Jim Lambie, Sarah Moris and Thomas Scheibitz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57835992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57835992", "title": "List of American painters exhibited at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition", "text": "List of American painters exhibited at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition\n\nList of American painters exhibited at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition.\nChicago hosted the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition, a world's fair commemorating the 400th anniversary of Christopher Columbus's arrival in the New World. Artists from the United States and 19 foreign countries exhibited at the Exposition. A complete list of the artists and works exhibited in the Palace of Fine Arts can be found here:\n\nThe Art Department's focus was on modern American painting, works painted in the 17 years since the 1876 Centennial Exposition. Hundreds of American painters submitted works, and more than 1,000 paintings in oil and more than 200 in watercolor were selected for exhibition in the Palace of Fine Arts. Additional works—not in competition for medals—were exhibited in other Exposition buildings, including the Woman's Building and individual state buildings.\n\nThe tradition of the Paris Salon was to award a single gold medal (first place), a couple silver medals (second place), several bronze medals (third place), and numerous honorable mentions (fourth place) in each medium (oils, watercolor, sculpture, etc.). Instead of this tiered system with medals awarded for individual paintings, Exposition judges awarded a single level of medals and for an artist's whole exhibit. Fifty-seven American painters received medals \"for excellence\" for works in oil, and 11 for works in watercolor.\n\nAuthor Henry Davenport Northrop made a key observation:\n\nThe American artists are practically of three classes—those who have studied entirely in this country; those who have studied abroad, but have returned to America and partly shaken off the foreign influence; and those who have remained abroad, painting very much like the artists of the country in which they live.\n\nThe Exposition closed at the end of October 1893. Many of its buildings were destroyed in a July 1894 fire that swept through the vacant fairgrounds.\n\nThe table below lists American painters who received special recognition, and/or whose exhibited works can be found in the Smithsonian Institution Research Information System database: Except where noted, the paintings were exhibited in the United States section of the Palace of Fine Arts and listed in the initial catalogue. A revised catalogue listed a small number of additional paintings. Images of the works have been added, where available, as well as their current whereabouts.\n"}
{"id": "17962529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17962529", "title": "List of National Museum of Dance Hall of Fame inductees", "text": "List of National Museum of Dance Hall of Fame inductees\n\nBelow is the list of the inductees into the Hall of Fame of the National Museum of Dance (United States).\n\nFred Astaire (1899–1987)\n\nGeorge Balanchine (1904–1983)\n\nAgnes de Mille (1905–1993)\n\nIsadora Duncan (1887–1927)\n\nKatherine Dunham (1909–2006)\n\nMartha Graham (1894–1991)\n\nDoris Humphrey (1895–1958)\n\nLincoln Kirstein (1907–1996)\n\nCatherine Littlefield (1908–1951)\n\nBill \"Bojangles\" Robinson (1878–1949)\n\nRuth St. Denis (1877–1968)\n\nTed Shawn (1891–1972)\n\nCharles Weidman (1901–1975)\n\nBusby Berkeley (1895–1976)\n\nLucia Chase (1897–1986)\n\nHanya Holm (1898–1992)\n\nJohn Martin (1893–1992)\n\nAntony Tudor (1908–1987)\n\nJerome Robbins (1918–1998)\n\nAlvin Ailey (1931–1989)\n\nMerce Cunningham (1919–2009)\n\nBronislava Nijinska (1891–1972)\n\nPaul Taylor (1930-)\n\nJosé Limón (1908–1972)\n\nAnna Sokolow (1910–2000)\n\nBarbara Karinska (1886–1983)\n\nArthur Mitchell (1934-)\n\nRobert Joffrey (1930–1988)\n\nTrisha Brown (1936-)\n\nAlwin Nikolais (1910–1993)\n\nFayard Nicholas (1914–2006)\n\nHarold Nicholas (1921–2000)\n\nLéonide Massine (1895–1979)\n\nEdwin Denby (1903–1983)\n\nIgor Stravinsky (1882–1971)\n\nArthur and Kathryn Murray\n\nThe New Dance Group 1932\n\nBob Fosse (1927–1987)\n\nBill T. Jones (1952-)\n\nPeter Martins (1946-)\n\nMarge Champion (1919-)\n\nTommy Tune (1939-)\n\nSuzanne Farrell (1945-)\n\nEdward Villella (1936-)\n\nFrankie Manning (1914–2009)\n\nMichael Jackson (1958–2009) - First inductee from the world of Rock and Roll.\n\nFrederic Franklin (1914–2013)\n\nOliver Smith (1918–1994)\n\nBen Vereen (1946-)\n\nAnna Pavlova (1881–1931)\n\nJudith Jamison (1943-)\n\nParson Famesu\n\nGene Kelly (1912–1996)\n\nJacques d'Amboise (1934-)\n\nRudolf Nureyev (1938–1993)\n\nMark Morris (1956-)\n\nGregory Hines (1946–2003)\n\nPatricia Wilde (1928-)\n"}
{"id": "7225964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7225964", "title": "Luděk Marold", "text": "Luděk Marold\n\nLuděk Alois Marold (7 August 1865, Prague – 1 December 1898, Prague) was a Czech painter and illustrator, best known for his panorama depicting the Battle of Lipany. It is the largest painting in the Czech Republic and currently has its own pavilion at the Výstaviště exhibition grounds.\n\nHe was born out of wedlock and given his mother's surname. His father, an Army Lieutenant, was killed the following year during the Austro-Prussian War and his mother died six years later. The next nine years of his life are largely undocumented, although he apparently tried to enter Cadet School, but failed the examinations. At the age of sixteen, he entered the Academy of Fine Arts, but remained for only a year and was expelled. \n\nHis studies did not resume until 1881, when he enrolled at the Academy of Fine Arts, Munich, where his instructors were Ludwig von Löfftz and Nikolaos Gysis. While there, he exchanged ideas with other Czech painters such as Mikoláš Aleš and Alfons Mucha. His first professional successes came as an illustrator for several German and Czech magazines, such as \"Světozor\".\n\nDuring this time, he began to suffer from rheumatic fever so, in 1887, he returned to Prague, where he worked in the studios of Maximilian Pirner and edited publications from the newly established Mánes Union of Fine Arts, headed by his old friend Aleš. Two years later, he received a state scholarship to study in Paris, where he found a position in the studios of Pierre-Victor Galland. In 1891, he was married. The following year, after Galland's death, he gave up his scholarship to become a freelance artist. He continued to create illustrations for periodicals and books by Czech authors and received a gold medal at an exhibition in Munich in 1892. Later, he adopted the Art Nouveau style and began receiving orders for posters. In 1895, he was elected a member of the \"\".\n\nBy 1897, he was back in Prague, where he proposed creating a gigantic panorama of the Battle of Lipany for an upcoming exhibition. His proposal was accepted and, after making sketches at the battlefield, he began work in early 1898. He collaborated with Karel Raška (1861-1918), the landscape painter Václav Jansa, colorist Theodor Hilšer (1866-1930) and the animal painter . It measures 11 meters (36 feet) high and 95 meters (311 feet) long. The stress of completing this huge work on schedule had a fatal effect on his already fragile health and he died shortly after it went on display in 1898. A major retrospective of his work was held the following year. Three streets in have been named after him; in Děčín, Kladno and Prague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54257719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54257719", "title": "Lurish dances", "text": "Lurish dances\n\nThe mosaic dance of Iran is as vibrant as the country's cultural diversity, and the Iranian dances are the colorful tapestries of practices which permeate the country, as well as the Iranian diaspora. The Lurish dances include a range of folk dances popular among different groups of Lur people which have formed, developed and transferred during the subsequent generations. They usually include common Iranian dances; Collective dances and quadrille, the circular arrangement (circle dance), and the colorful clothing.\n\nDue to discovered objects and archeological excavations from Lurish-inhabited areas like Kozagaran, Tepe Giyan, Tepe Musiyan, CheghaMish and Kul-e Farah, it is evident that dance history predates the Arian migrations inward the Iranian plateau. Motifs depicting three dancing persons on the pottery discovered and dance portrays on the bronze flags of Luristan of the first millennium BC, musicians and musical instruments depicted on the petroglyphs in Kul-e Farah of Izeh and Cheghamish are the most prominent archaeological evidences showing the value and history of dance in these areas.\n\nThere are many dance styles common in Lurish-inhabited areas. The most prevalent Lurish dance styles are handkerchief dance, Chupi dances (SanguinSama; slow rhythm along with strike and fiddle, Se-Pa (three steps) dance that is performed faster than SanguinSama, and Du-Pa (Two steps) dance that is the fastest and the most exciting performance), and the stick dance (Çubâzi or Tarka-bâzi)(like Jitterbug wood) which is a martial show. Harvesting ceremony dances, PaPoshtePa dances, Suwaruna and the mourning dances are of less popular dances. Mourning dances are performed while loved persons are died as Chamariuna among Feylis and also among Great Lur tribes (Bakhtiries and the Southern Lurs).\n\nHandkerchief dance also known as scarf dance (Lurish:Dasmâl-bâzi) is a vibrant circle dance style. This dance style is more common among Southern Lurs and Bakhtiari people. This style is usually performed by both male and female persons and includes different performing styles like Ashtafi-manganâ. Men or women may dance and wave colorful scarves, called dastmâl. A dasmâl is held in each hand. In case of the philosophy, it is believed that these dances have originated in the actions the women do in their daily livelihood. As the dance rhythm increases slowly, each person may chooses patterns to perform.\n\nČu-bâzi or Chubazi (twig dance) is a special dance double that is performed in the celebrations and joys by Bakhtiari and the southern Lurs and is inspired by the heroic battles. It is usually dance by two men, although sometimes is performed by the women too. One dancer (the defender) is equipped with a long heavy stick up to four or five feet long. The other (the attacker) whom holds a shorter flexible stick (tarka), has to attack the opponent only below the level of the knee. While the dance is accompanied by drum and karnâ (a horn music instrument), the defender is only allowed to escape the strike by leaping up in the air. The contributors change in turn till the protagaonists are specified. The dancers are surrounded by female and male enthusiastic audiences whom cheer the winners by screams and whistles.\n\nIn Lurish dialects, mass dance styles that are mainly based on leg movements are said Čupi (چووپی, Choupi). Mixed male and female dancers hold hands to form rings, hearing the vibrant musics by musicians, they perform different styles of čupi. The leader performer (Sarčupi or Čupikeš) is a skillful dancer whose duty is to lead others and warm up them in accordance with dance music rhythms. Other performers should coordinate the movements and body rhythms with the leader. The dance usually starts with Sangin-Samâ rhythm which is performed slowly, following Sepâ (Three steps) the next rhythm with faster performing and soars when vibrant Dopâ (two steps) is performing. After a while, the dance concludes to Sangin-Samâ movements in a reversed trend.\n\nSangin-samâ (also Sangin-sepâ or Samâ) is usually the first phase of Čupi mass dance style and includes gentle and slow movements. Performers, initially put their right foot in the form of a cross with left foot, then take it and take two steps forward. Then they put the left foot with the tip of the toe and finally put it aside right foot. The hands bend from elbow and small fingers of dancers, in line with the shoulders, are tied among each other. It seems that each of the gestures and dance components of Sama, has a philosophy retrieved from thousands years of coexistence with humane and natural elements behind it.\n\nIn Čupi dance continuum, the second phase is Sepâ (three steps) which is performed faster and more dynamic than Sangin-Samâ in accordance with speeding up the music rhythm. Dancers start the dance with the right foot and take three steps forward. In Lurish dances, like most Iranian group dances, the start of the move is with the right foot. After removing the three steps, the dancers first bend the right leg and then the left foot. The dancers' hands in this dance are tied to each other and their shoulders rely on each other. The literal meaning of dance in Lurish (Dasgerta), is the bond between hands when dancing.\n"}
{"id": "44008386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44008386", "title": "Mermaid of Warsaw", "text": "Mermaid of Warsaw\n\nThe Mermaid of Warsaw () is a symbol of Warsaw, represented on the city's coat of arms as well as in a number of statues and other imagery.\n\nPolish \"syrenka\" is cognate with siren, but she is more properly a fresh-water mermaid called melusina. The common English translation, in any case, is neither siren nor melusina but mermaid.\n\nA creature was on Warsaw's coat of arms in 1390. It showed an animal with bird's legs and a torso covered with dragon scales. The seal of 1459 had feminine characteristics, a bird torso, human hands, a fish tail, and bird legs and claws. The first presentation of a mermaid dates from 1622.\n\nThe inspiration for the coat of arms was probably derived from the 2nd century book Physiologus.\n\nThere are several legends about mermaid. The City's literature and tour guides say the mermaid decided to stay after stopping on a riverbank near the Old Town. Fishermen noticed something was creating waves, tangling nets, and releasing their fish. They planned to trap the animal, then heard her singing and fell in love. A rich merchant trapped and inprisoned the mermaid. Hearing her cries, the fishermen rescued her. Ever since the mermaid, armed with a sword and a shield, has been ready to help protect the city and its residents.\n\nSometimes this legend is expanded to say the Little Mermaid in Copenhagen is the Warsaw mermaid's sister and they went separate ways from the Baltic Sea.\n\nAnother states she helped a prince lost hunting and he founded the city in her honour.\n\nExamples include:\n\nThe sculpture in Warsaw's Old Town Square was designed by Varsovian sculptor Konstanty Hegel.\n\nOriginally (1855-1928) and now (since 2000) it stands in the marketplace. At other times, it was moved to different places in Warsaw. In 2008, the original sculpture made of bronzed zinc was taken from the market for maintenance work. The sculpture was in a very poor condition due to mechanical damage and numerous acts of vandalism. The repaired original was transferred to the Museum of Warsaw, and replaced with a copy of made by the Jacek Guzera foundry in Dąbrowie near Kielce.\n\nThis statue, made of gunmetal, was erected in April 1939 in Powiśle near the Vistula river. The sculpture is by Ludwika Nitschowa and posed by poet Krystyna Krahelska.\n\nIn autumn of 2006, a silver plaque of the Virtuti Militari was added to the monument for General Sikorski who was awarded it in recognition of his defense of Warsaw in September 1939.\n\nA mermaid sculpted by Jan Woydyga was erected on the Stanislaw Markiewicz viaduct in Karowa Street in 1905.\n\nA mermaid designed by Alexander Żurakowski in 1947 was engraved onto the shield on the breast of a statue of an eagle located in the main meeting hall of the Polish parliament, the Sejm.\n\nThis mermaid is over the entrance to the former tram depot on 6 Inżynierska Street.\n\nLocated on the building of School No. 77 on the corner of Katowicka and Zwycięzców streets in Saska Kępa, the bas-relief is by Wojciech Czerwosz.\n\nThis mermaid is in front of the district office of the Warsaw borough of Praga-Południe at 274 Grochowska Street, and was made by Jerzy Chojnacki. It originally stood in Saska Kępa, in front of the Sawa movie theater.\n\nAt the top of the Palace of Culture and Science, on each clock face (which were added prior to millennium celebrations in 2000), there is the Warsaw mermaid.\n\nA memorial fountain of the Warsaw mermaid with a similar shape to the monument in Powiśle is located in the central square of Bielsko-Biała. It was created in 1954 by Ryszard Sroczyński.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50785933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50785933", "title": "NZIA Gold Medal", "text": "NZIA Gold Medal\n\nThe New Zealand Institute of Architects gold medal is an award presented annually by the NZIA to a New Zealand architect.\nFrom 1927 until 1977 a gold, silver or bronze prize was awarded each for the design of a public building and was judged by the Royal institute of British Architects. In 1978 a \"National Award\" replaced the Gold Medal. The Gold Medal was reintroduced in 2001 and is awarded to an architect who, over a period of time, has made an outstanding contribution to the practice of architecture, rather than for a specific building. This contribution is demonstrated through the production of a consistently high-quality body of work.\n"}
{"id": "3434668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3434668", "title": "Nancy Carell", "text": "Nancy Carell\n\nNancy Ellen Carell (; née Walls; born July 19, 1966) is an American actress, comedian and writer best known for her work on \"Saturday Night Live\", \"The Daily Show\" and \"The Office\". In 2016, she co-created the TBS comedy series \"Angie Tribeca\" with her husband, Steve Carell.\n\nCarell was born and raised in Cohasset, Massachusetts. She attended Boston College where she graduated in 1988. While a student at BC, she was a member of the improvisational troupe \"My Mother's Fleabag.\"\n\nCarell got her start in comedy at The Second City in Chicago and, like many of the troupe's alumni, went on to join the cast of \"Saturday Night Live\" (1995–96), where she was best known for her impression of CNN anchor Bobbie Battista. She later held a correspondent position on the satirical TV news program \"The Daily Show\". She voiced the character of Helen Goode on the Mike Judge-created animated series \"The Goode Family\" on ABC, where she was credited for the first time as Nancy Carell instead of Nancy Walls. Carell occasionally guest-starred on \"The Office\", which starred her husband Steve Carell until 2011, as Carole Stills, a real estate agent and former girlfriend of her husband's character, Michael Scott. She also had a brief appearance in the movie \"Bridesmaids\".\n\nCarell and her husband Steve created the TBS comedy series \"Angie Tribeca\" starring Rashida Jones. The series premiered on January 17, 2016.\n\nCarell is married to actor-comedian Steve Carell, whom she met when she was a student in an improvisation class he was teaching at Second City. They have two children: daughter Elisabeth (born in 2001) and son John (born in 2004).\n\n"}
{"id": "2089280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2089280", "title": "Octopus's Garden", "text": "Octopus's Garden\n\n\"Octopus's Garden\" is a song by the Beatles written and sung by Ringo Starr (credited to his real name Richard Starkey) from the Beatles' 1969 album \"Abbey Road\". George Harrison, who assisted Starr with the song, commented: \"'Octopus's Garden' is Ringo's song. It's only the second song Ringo has ever written, mind you, and it's lovely.\" He added that the song gets very deep into the listener's consciousness \"...because it's so peaceful. I suppose Ringo is writing cosmic songs these days without even realising it.\" It was the last song released by the Beatles featuring Starr on lead vocals.\n\nThe idea for the song came about when Starr was on a boat belonging to comedian Peter Sellers in Sardinia in 1968. He ordered fish and chips for lunch, but instead of fish he got squid (it was the first time he'd eaten squid, and he said, \"It was OK. A bit rubbery. Tasted like chicken.\") The boat's captain then told Starr about how octopuses travel along the sea bed picking up stones and shiny objects with which to build gardens. Starr's songwriting was further inspired by his desire to escape mounting hostility among the Beatles; he would later admit that he had \"just wanted to be under the sea, too.\" Uncredited assistance in developing the song's chord changes was provided by Harrison, who can be seen helping Starr work the song out on piano, with Lennon later joining in with drums, in the \"Let It Be\" documentary. \n\nThe song, which contains the lyrics \"Oh what joy for every girl and boy/Knowing they're happy and they're safe,\" is sometimes thought of as being a song for children, like \"Yellow Submarine\" or \"All Together Now\". It has also been performed by the Muppets several times in various episodes of their shows.\n\nThe basic instrumental track was recorded 26 April 1969, with the Beatles lineup of two electric guitars (Harrison and Lennon, the latter using his fingerstyle technique as on \"Julia\", \"Dear Prudence\", etc.), bass guitar (McCartney) and drums (Starr). Starr also provided a temporary guide vocal. (Take 2 of the recording, featuring this guide vocal, Starr singing the first verse three times, is track 14 on disc 2 of \"Anthology 3\".) In the absence of George Martin, the Beatles themselves were listed as producer, with Martin's apprentice Chris Thomas present in the control room to assist. Thirty-two takes were required before the Beatles were satisfied with the track.\n\nThe backing vocals by McCartney and Harrison during the guitar solo were put through compressors and limiters to create a gurgling sound. Starr added the sound of bubbles being blown into a glass of milk using a straw.\n\n\nThe song was remixed in 2006 for the Beatles album \"Love\", which contained remixes of classic Beatles songs. The remix begins with Starr's vocals over the orchestration from \"Good Night\", then transitions into the original instrumental backing track on the line \"I'd ask my friends...\", with sound effects from \"Yellow Submarine\" added in the background. During the guitar solo, the drum track is replaced with that of \"Lovely Rita\".\n\nThe track, in its original form, is also available on the compilation \"1967-1970\".\n\nStarr wrote \"Octopus's Garden\", a 2014 children's book based on the song. The book, which consists of the song's lyrics, is illustrated by Ben Cort. A CD is included with the book, including an introduction by Starr, a new version of the song, the lyrics spoken as prose, and an instrumental version of the song.\n\nJim Henson's Muppets made three video cover versions of the song, on \"Sesame Street\", episode 19 in 1969, \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" in March 1970, and \"The Muppet Show\" episode 312 in 1978, which was performed by Robin the Frog, Kermit the Frog and Miss Piggy.\n\nIn the PBS educational show \"Zoom\", the cast from Season 5 did a version of the song.\n\nReparata and the Delrons released the song as a single in 1972 on Dart records, backed with \"Your Life Is Gone\". It used vocal effects and ocean-themed sound effects to mimic the style of their 1968 UK hit, \"Captain of Your Ship\". It was re-released in 1976, with the A- and B-sides reversed, and credited to Reparata (no Delrons).\n\nNoel Gallagher of Oasis adds adapted lyrics from \"Octopus's Garden\" to the end of their song \"Whatever\" during some of his live performances. The phrase \"I'd like to be under the sea\" is in the refrain of one of Oasis' most popular b-sides, \"Take Me Away\". Also, the refrain from the chorus of \"Octopus's Garden\" can be heard about forty seconds from the end of \"The Masterplan\", also by Oasis.\n\nThe song was covered and recorded by Canadian children's musician Raffi for the 1985 album \"One Light, One Sun\".\n\nThe Punkles did a punk cover on their fourth album \"For Sale\" sung by their drummer Markey Starkey.\n\nIn 1999, Melissa Joan Hart did an electropop cover for her film \"Sabrina Down Under\".\n\nA mashup with Blondie's \"Heart of Glass\" circulated on the Internet in 2007, as \"Glass Octopus\".\n\nThe comedy team at CollegeHumor created a parody tribute to the band entitled \"Ringo Wants to Sing More\". The video was posted on their website on 24 June 2009.\n\nLeah Erbe performed the cover of \"Octopus's Garden\" on the Motion Picture Soundtrack for \"IMAX: Under The Sea\". The soundtrack was released by New Line Records on 1 April 2010.\n\nThere is a cocktail named after the song, which contains vermouth and gin.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Lisa the Vegetarian\", Linda McCartney mentions that they like hanging out in Apu's \"garden in the shade\" when they are in Springfield, which is a lyric from the song.\n\nIn the 2009 romantic comedy film \"(500) Days of Summer\", Summer Finn (Zooey Deschanel) remarks that \"Octopus's Garden\" is the greatest Beatles song ever. Tom Hanson (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) tells Summer that no one loves Ringo Starr, to which Summer replies \"That's what I love about him\".\n\nIn the 2007 comedy film \"\", Ringo Starr (Jason Schwartzman) refers to his \"song about an octopus\", which is followed by a crude remark from John Lennon (Paul Rudd).\n"}
{"id": "244566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244566", "title": "Open Content License", "text": "Open Content License\n\nThe Open Content License is a share-alike public copyright license by Open Content Project in 1998. The license can be applied to a work to make it open content. It is one of the earliest non-software free content licenses.\n\nThe Open Content License, dated July 14, 1998, predates the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) and other non-software public licenses. Though discussions were held between David A. Wiley, creator of the Open Content License, and Richard Stallman, leader of the Free Software Foundation, who created the GNU General Public License for software and would create the GFDL. The license text is titled \"OpenContent License (OPL)\". \"OPL\" stood for OpenContent Principles and License.\n\nThis license is not compatible with most other license (beside permissive licenses) in that it requires derivative works to be licensed under the Open Content License (Viral license). With the exception of media and handling costs, it forbids charging for copies of a licensed work, but does not otherwise forbid commercial use.\n\nAnother license released a year later, also by the Open Content Project, is called the Open Publication License. The OpenContent as well as the Open Publication license were succeeded by the Creative Commons licenses in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "42222409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42222409", "title": "Paths of Glory (painting)", "text": "Paths of Glory (painting)\n\nPaths of Glory is a 1917 painting by British artist Christopher Nevinson. The title quotes from a line from Thomas Gray's poem \"Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard\": \"The paths of glory lead but to the grave\". It is held by the Imperial War Museum in London, which describes it as \"one of Nevinson's most famous paintings\".\n\nNevinson had served as a volunteer ambulance driver with the Friends' Ambulance Service on the Western Front in the early months of the First World War, from November 1914 to January 1915, and then returned to England. He served as an orderly in the Royal Army Medical Corps in London but was invalided out in late 1915 due to rheumatic fever. During this period he painted several paintings such as \"La Mitrailleuse\" (1915) and \"The Doctor\" (1916).\n\nHe was commissioned as a war artist in 1917 and was sent to France by the British War Propaganda Bureau. He adopted a Realist style to depict the horror of the war, moved decisively away from his earlier Modernist and Vorticist styles. \n\nThe painting measures . It depicts two dead British soldiers, face down in a battlefield on the Western Front. They lie unburied in a muddy landscape that is bare save for barriers of barbed wire and the detritus of war. \n\nThe painting was censored by the official censor of paintings and drawings in France, Lieutenant Colonel A N Lee, on the grounds that displaying dead bodies would hinder the war effort. Nonetheless, Nevinson included the painting in his official exhibition at the Leicester Galleries in March 1918, but the work was displayed with a brown paper strip across the bodies bearing the word \"censored\". Nevinson was reprimanded by the War Office for exhibiting a censored image, and for using the word \"censored\" in public without authorisation, but obtained significant publicity, particularly as the first exhibition of official colour tinted photographs from the front (including images of actual dead bodies) opened on 4 March. The painting was bought by the Imperial War Museum direct from the exhibition, as the work had been commissioned by the Ministry of Information.\n\nThe same title was used for several books and the 1957 war film directed by Stanley Kubrick.\n\n"}
{"id": "1317694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1317694", "title": "Performance studies", "text": "Performance studies\n\nPerformance studies is an interdisciplinary field that studies performance and uses performance as a lens to study the world. The term 'performance' is broad, and can include artistic and aesthetic performances like concerts, theatrical events, and performance art; sporting events; social, political and religious events like rituals, ceremonies, proclamations and public decisions; certain kinds of language use; and those components of identity which require someone to do, rather than just be, something. Consequently, performance studies is interdisciplinary, drawing from theories of the performing arts, anthropology and sociology, literary theory, and legal studies.\n\nPerformance Studies has been challenged as an emerging discipline. Many academics have been critical of its instability. As an academic field it is difficult to pin down; either that is the nature of the field itself or it is still too young to tell. There are, however, numerous degree-granting programs that train researchers being offered by universities. Some have referred to it as an \"inter discipline\" or a \"post discipline\".\n\nPerformance Studies tends to concentrate on a mix of research methods. The application of practice-led or practice-based research methods has become a widespread phenomenon not just in the anglophone world. As such research projects integrate established methods like literature research and oral history with performance practice, i.e. artistic autoethnographic approaches and verbatim theatre. The documentation of \"Practice-as-Research in Performance\" (PARIP), a devoted research project conducted at the University of Bristol between 2001 and 2006, offers a number of inspiring articles and portraits of such research projects and was key for a breakthrough of using creative thinking within this subject field.\n\nRichard Schechner author of \"Performance Studies: An Introduction\" states that Performance studies examine performances in two categories: Artistic and Cultural Performances. A. Artistic Performance are marked and understood as art. solo-performance, performance art, performance of literature, theatrical storytelling, plays, and performance poetry, This category considers performance as the art form. B. Cultural Performance includes events that occur in everyday life in which a culture values are displayed for their perpetuation: rituals such as parades, religious ceremonies, community festivals, controversial storytelling, and performances of social and professional roles, and individual performances of race, gender, sexuality and class. \n\nPerformance Studies as an academic field has multiple origin narratives. On the theatrical and anthropological front, this origin is often regarded as the research collaborations of director Richard Schechner and anthropologist Victor Turner. This origin narrative emphasizes a definition of performance as being \"between theatre and anthropology\" and often stresses the importance of intercultural performances as an alternative to either traditional proscenium theatre or traditional anthropological fieldwork. Dwight Conquergood developed a branch of performance ethnography that centered the political nature of the practice and advocated for methodological dialogism from the point of encounter to the practices of research reporting. Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett has contributed an interest in tourist productions and ethnographic showmanship to the field, Judd Case has adapted performance to the study of media and religion, Diana Taylor has brought a hemispheric perspective on Latin American performance and theorized the relationship between the archive and the performance repertoire, while Corinne Kratz developed a mode of performance analysis that emphasizes the role of multimedia communication in performance. Laurie Frederik argues for the importance of ethnographic research and a solid theoretical base in anthropological perspective.\n\nOn the literature front, Wallace Bacon (1914–2001), considered by many to be the father of performance theory, taught the performance of literature as the ultimate act of humility. In his defining statement of performance theory, \"Our center is in the interaction between readers and texts which enriches, extends, clarifies, and (yes) alters the interior and even the exterior lives of students [and performers and audiences] through the power of texts\" (\"Literature in Performance\", Vol 5 No 1, 1984; p. 84). In addition, Robert Breen's text \"Chamber Theatre\" is a cornerstone in the field for staging narrative texts, though it remains controversial in its assertions about the place of narrative details in chamber productions. Breen is also regarded by many as a founding theorist for the discipline, along with advocate Louise Rosenblatt. More recently, performance theorist and novelist Barbara Browning has suggested that narrative fiction itself—and particularly the novel—demands the performative participation of the reader.\n\nAn alternative origin narrative stresses the development of speech-act theory by philosophers J.L. Austin and Judith Butler, literary critic Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, and also Shoshana Felman. The theory proposed by Austin in \"How To Do Things With Words\" states that \"to say something \"is to do something\", or \"in\" saying something we do something, and even \"by\" saying something we do something\". the most illustrative example being \"I do\", as part of a marriage ceremony. For any of these performative utterances to be felicitous, per Austin, they must be true, appropriate and conventional according to those with the proper authority: a priest, a judge, or the scholar, for instance. Austin accounts for the infelicitous by noting that \"there will always occur difficult or marginal cases where nothing in the previous history of a conventional procedure will decide conclusively whether such a procedure is or is not correctly applied to such a case\". The possibility of failure in performatives (utterances made with language and the body) is taken up by Butler and is understood as the \"political promise of the performative\". Her argument is that because the performative needs to maintain conventional power, convention itself has to be reiterated, and in this reiteration it can be expropriated by the unauthorized usage and thus create new futures. She cites Rosa Parks as an example:\nWhen Rosa Parks sat in the front of the bus, she had no prior right to do so guaranteed by any…conventions of the South. And yet, in laying claim to the right for which she had no prior authorization, she endowed a certain authority on the act, and began the insurrectionary process of overthrowing those established codes of legitimacy.\nThe question of the infelicitous utterance (the misfire)is also taken up by Shoshana Felman when she states \"Infelicity, or failure, is not for Austin an accident of the performative, it is inherent in it, essential to it. In other words…Austin conceives of failure not as external but as internal to the promise, as what actually constitutes it.\"\n\nPerformance studies has also had a strong relationship to the fields of feminism, psychoanalysis, critical race theory and queer theory. Theorists like Peggy Phelan, José Esteban Muñoz, E. Patrick Johnson, Rebecca Schneider, and André Lepecki have been equally influential in both performance studies and these related fields.\n\nPerformance studies incorporates theories of drama, dance, art, anthropology, folkloristics, philosophy, cultural studies, psychology, sociology, comparative literature, communication studies, and increasingly, music performance. More can be found out by reading Schechner's book: \"Performance Studies: An Introduction\" or in D. Soyini Madison and Judith Hamera's The Sage Handbook for Performance Studies. The first performance studies department was created at NYU. However, there is some debate that the joint-cradles of Performance Studies are Northwestern University and NYU. For more information on the different origins and disciplinary traditions of performance studies see Shannon Jackson's book \"Professing Performance\" and the introductory chapter in Nathan Stucky and Cynthia Wimmer's \"Teaching Performance Studies\". Generally the differences between the NYU and Northwestern models cite different disciplinary concerns. NYU is generally characterized as a program that pushed the definitions of theatrical practice influenced by the thearical avant-garde thus expanding its definition of what can be framed as an event. Interaction with departments that include NYU's Postdoctoral Program in Psychoanalysis and Psychotherapy have made this an ongoing pursuit. Northwestern transitioned from an elocution and performance of literature tradition to expand its definition of presentational aesthetics beyond oral interpretation. Northwestern's unique brand of performance studies has its origins in anthropology, having been started by the ethnographer Dwight Conquergood with the goal of understanding all manner of local cultures through their performance practices. In both instances a focus on practice lead to a research methodology beyond theatre or literature/speech. In the United States, the interdisciplinary and multi-focus field has spread to Brown, UCLA, University of Northern Iowa, UCI, UC Berkeley, and elsewhere. Undergraduate and graduate programs are offered at The University of Texas at Austin, UCLA's Culture and Performance Program, UC Davis, UC Irvine, Kennesaw State University, Louisiana State University, Southern Illinois University Carbondale, California State University, Northridge, San Jose State University, University of San Diego, University of Maryland, the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, and Washington University in St. Louis. Texas A&M University's Department of Performance Studies is unique in including both Music and Theatre degree programs.\n\nIn the United Kingdom Aberystwyth University offers a degree scheme in performance studies with highly acclaimed performance artists such as Mike Pearson, Heike Roms and Jill Greenhalgh. The University of Roehampton in London offers a BA in Drama, Theatre and Performance Studies. Richmond University, London also offers a BA in Performance and Theatre Arts. The University of Plymouth has offered a BA in Theatre & Performance since the early 1990s; its postgraduate research programme (ResM and MPhil/PhD) specialises in performance studies. The University of Warwick also offers a BA in Theatre and Performance Studies, in addition to leading Postgraduate programmes.\n\nIn Denmark Roskilde University offers a master and ph.d. degree in \"performance design\", focusing on subjects such as theatrical performances, live music, festivals, and urban performances.\n\nIn Germany University of Hamburg offers a master program in performance studies at the centre for performance studies run by Gabriele Klein. The Centre for Performance Studies at the University of Bremen offers a certificate in performance studies focussing on the combination of academic and artistic research within performance projects.\n\nIn India, Jawaharlal Nehru University offers MPhil and PhD program in Theatre & Performance Studies at the School of Arts & Aesthetics. Since 2012, School of Culture and Creative Expressions, Ambedkar University Delhi, started a MA program in Performance Studies, which focus on redefining methodologies of cultural studies and research on the basis of the nuances of performance studies. It is formulating the first Practice based PhD in the country and working extensively in the realm of Practice-as-Research. On the similar lines, the Centre for Performance Research and Cultural Studies in South Asia (CPRACSIS), Kerala have organised series of workshops and seminars over the last few years to engage scholars, artists and practitioners in conversation informed by Performance Studies.\n\nIn Australia, the University of Sydney, Victoria University and Queensland University of Technology offer degrees majoring in performance studies, Honours, Masters and Phd. Performance Studies in some countries is also an A-level (AS and A2) course consisting of the integration of the discrete art forms of Dance, Music and Drama in performing arts.\n\nIn Brazil, The Universidade Federal de Goiás, started an interdisciplinary program (masters) in Performances Culturais (Cultural Performances) in 2012, the first in a Latin country. The goal of this program is to analyze \"rituals, games, performances, drama, dance\" from a cross-cultural point of view.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "882015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=882015", "title": "Proofs and Refutations", "text": "Proofs and Refutations\n\nProofs and Refutations is a 1976 book by philosopher Imre Lakatos expounding his view of the progress of mathematics. The book is written as a series of Socratic dialogues involving a group of students who debate the proof of the Euler characteristic defined for the polyhedron. A central theme is that definitions are not carved in stone, but often have to be patched up in the light of later insights, in particular failed proofs. This gives mathematics a somewhat experimental flavour. At the end of the Introduction, Lakatos explains that his purpose is to challenge formalism in mathematics, and to show that informal mathematics grows by a logic of \"proofs and refutations\".\n\nMany important logical ideas are explained in the book. For example, the difference between a counterexample to a lemma (a so-called 'local counterexample') and a counterexample to the specific conjecture under attack (a 'global counterexample' to the Euler characteristic, in this case) is discussed.\n\nLakatos argues for a different kind of textbook, one that uses heuristic style. To the critics that say such a textbook would be too long, he replies: 'The answer to this pedestrian argument is: let us try.'\n\nThe book includes two appendices. In the first, Lakatos gives examples of the heuristic process in mathematical discovery. In the second, he contrasts the deductivist and heuristic approaches and provides heuristic analysis of some 'proof generated' concepts, including uniform convergence, bounded variation, and the Carathéodory definition of a measurable set.\n\nThe pupils in the book are named after letters of the Greek alphabet.\n\nThough the book is written as a narrative, an actual method of investigation, that of \"proofs and refutations\", is developed. In Appendix I, Lakatos summarizes this method by the following list of stages:\n\n\nHe goes on and gives further stages that might sometimes take place:\n\nThe 1976 book has been translated into more than 15 languages worldwide, including Chinese, Korean, Serbo-Croat and Turkish, and went into its second Chinese edition in 2007.\n\nA number of mathematics teachers have implemented Lakatos' method of proofs and refutations in the classroom, when teaching other mathematical topics. The method has been applied to the analysis and presentation of problem solving in mechanics\nby high school to college level students.\n\n"}
{"id": "3665706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3665706", "title": "Royal Drawing School", "text": "Royal Drawing School\n\nThe Royal Drawing School is an educational organisation and registered charity in the London Borough of Hackney in England. It was founded in 2000 by the Prince of Wales as The Prince's Drawing School and received its current name in 2014.\n\nThe aim of the Royal Drawing School is to raise the standard and profile of drawing through teaching and practice. It is one of only a few institutions in the world offering in-depth, quality tuition for those who wish to develop their observational drawing skills.\n\nAs well as a Postgraduate Programme, the School runs a broad range of affordable courses designed for both professional artists and other interested adults, including master classes in the life room, in museums and galleries and in the streets and parks of London. Drawing instruction is delivered by distinguished artists and teachers from leading institutions including the Royal Academy Schools, Central Saint Martins, the Royal College of Art and the Slade. Over 3,000 students have attended classes since 2000; there are over 130 alumni of the Postgraduate Programme. The School, founded by the Prince of Wales, is based on the top floor of a converted warehouse in Shoreditch, an area rich in galleries and design studios.\n\nThe School also aims to make it possible for every child with an aptitude for drawing to achieve their potential. The School provides serious, sustained tuition and mentoring, for children aged 10–14, from all backgrounds, through affordable programmes which are provided when and where it works for students.\n\nThe Royal Drawing School is part of The Prince's Charities, a group of not-for-profit organizations of which the Prince of Wales is President: 17 of the 19 charities were founded personally by the Prince.\n\nIn 2006, The Prince's Drawing School received a donation of £85,000 from The Prince's Charities Foundation.\n\nIn 2018, works created by The Royal Drawing School and two other charities founded by Prince Charles were put on display during the Prince & Patron exhibition to mark his 70th birthday.\n\nThe Royal Drawing School has five campuses across London; in Shoreditch, Oxford Street, South Kensington and Trinity Buoy Wharf. The School also collaborates with a number of institutions including The National Gallery, The British Museum, Royal Academy of Arts, National Portrait Gallery, V&A and the Saatchi Gallery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47862556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47862556", "title": "Saul Yaffie", "text": "Saul Yaffie\n\nSaul Yaffie, Paul Jeffay, (1898–1957) was a Scottish Jewish artist.\n\nSaul Yaffie was born in Blythswood, Glasgow on 29 April 1898. His mother was Kate Yaffie (née Karkinofski), and his father, Bernard Yaffie, was a master tailor. Like many Russian Jews, Kate and Bernard Yaffie fled persecution in Russia during a wave of anti-Jewish pogroms triggered by the assassination of Tsar Alexander II in 1881. Saul's father was naturalised as a British citizen by the time that Saul himself was three; a Bernard Yaffie is recorded as living at Abbortsford Place in the old Gorbals, where the young Saul spent the early years of his childhood. The Yaffies were not unique in their situation: the Gorbals was the centre of Scotland's Jewish community and home to a large proportion of Glasgow's immigrants throughout the early 20th century. Over time, there was a movement to some of the more affluent communities in Glasgow, such as Pollokshields and Garnethill, as many Jewish families gradually improved their social and economic situation. Like these, the Yaffies also experienced a time of good fortune, moving to a more agreeable address on Sinclair Drive, Cathcart as Bernard's tailoring business prospered.\n\nSaul attended day classes in drawing and painting, modelling, and life drawing at The Glasgow School of Art from 1912 to 1919. During the First World War, he was required to interrupt his studies to serve in the King's Own Scottish Borderers in 1916/17. Although subject to military conscription, Yaffie reached the rank of corporal during his service. Prior to his conscription Yaffie engaged in munitions work, something that was recorded in the GSA's student registers.\n\nThe post-war economic depression that affected the country during the 1920s, also affected the Yaffie family directly: Bernard Yaffie's business suffered greatly, and the family eventually emigrated to Canada. Saul did not emigrate with his family, choosing instead to stay in Europe, and relocate to Paris where he continued his artistic practice. Now married, Saul sought to escape persecution in Europe by returning to the UK before the Second World War with his wife, Estusia. The two settled in Manchester, but returned to France after the war.\n\nSaul Yaffie is listed in the Glasgow School of Art's World War One Roll of Honour. He later went by the name Paul Jeffay, and much of his work is signed under this name. Saul Yaffie/Paul Jeffay died in Paris in 1957; his work is included the Ben Uri Gallery's Collection of Jewish émigré artists.\n\n"}
{"id": "41964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41964", "title": "School of the Art Institute of Chicago", "text": "School of the Art Institute of Chicago\n\nThe School of the Art Institute of Chicago (SAIC) is one of America's largest accredited independent schools of art and design. It is located in the Loop in Chicago, Illinois. The school is associated with the museum of the same name, and \"The Art Institute of Chicago\" or \"Chicago Art Institute\" often refers to either entity. Providing degrees at the undergraduate and graduate levels, SAIC has been recognized by \"U.S. News & World Report\" as one of the top graduate art programs in the nation, as well as by Columbia University's National Arts Journalism survey as the most influential art school in the United States.\n\nTracing its history to an art students' cooperative founded in 1866, which grew into the museum and school, SAIC has been accredited since 1936 by the Higher Learning Commission, by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design since 1944 (charter member), and by the Association of Independent Colleges of Art and Design (AICAD) since its founding in 1991. Additionally it is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board.\n\nIts downtown Chicago campus consists of seven buildings located in the immediate vicinity of the AIC building. SAIC is in an equal partnership with the AIC and share many administrative resources such as design, construction, and human resources. The campus, located in the Loop, comprises chiefly three buildings: the Michigan (112 S. Michigan Ave.), the Sharp (37 S. Wabash Ave.), and the Columbus (280 S. Columbus Dr.). SAIC also owns additional buildings throughout Chicago that are used as student galleries or investments.\n\nThe institute has its roots in the 1866 founding of the Chicago Academy of Design, which local artists established in rented rooms on Clark Street. It was financed by member dues and patron donations. Four years later, the school moved into its own Adams Street building, which was destroyed in the Great Chicago Fire of 1871.\n\nBecause of the school's financial and managerial problems after this loss, business leaders in 1878 formed a board of trustees and founded the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts. They expanded its mission beyond education and exhibitions to include collecting. In 1882, the academy was renamed the Art Institute of Chicago. The banker Charles L. Hutchinson served as its elected president until his death in 1924.\n\nChancellor Walter E. Massey served as president from 2010–July 2016. The current president is Elissa Tenny, formerly the school's provost.\n\nSAIC offers classes in art and technology; arts administration; art history, theory, and criticism; art education and art therapy; ceramics; fashion design; filmmaking; historic preservation; architecture; interior architecture; designed objects; journalism; painting and drawing; performance; photography; printmaking; sculpture; sound; new media; video; visual communication; visual and critical studies; animation; illustration; fiber; and writing. SAIC also serves as a resource for issues related to the position and importance of the arts in society.\n\nSAIC also offers an interdisciplinary Low-Residency MFA for students wishing to study the fine arts and/or writing.\n\nAs of fall 2016, the student enrollment at SAIC is demographically classified as follows:\n\nTotal Enrollment: 3,569\n\nUndergraduate students: 2,848\n\nGraduate students: 721\n\nSex:\n\nFemale: 72.3%\n\nMale: 27.7%\n\nInternational and ethnic origin:\n\nInternational students: 32% (countries represented: 59)\n\nUnited States students: 68%, further subdivided as follows:\n\nWhite: 35.6%\n\nHispanic: 10.6%\n\nAsian or Pacific Islander: 10.4%\n\nAfrican American: 3.6%\n\nAmerican Indian: 0.3%\n\nMultiethnic: 2.8%\n\nNot Specified: 5.2%\n\nGeographic distribution of United States students:\n\nMidwest: 47% (includes 10.6% from Chicago)\n\nNortheast: 20%\n\nWest: 18%\n\nSouth: 16%\n\nFounded in 1868, the Visiting Artists Program (VAP) is one of the oldest public programs of the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Formalized in 1951 by Flora Mayer Witkowsky's endowment of a supporting fund, the Visiting Artists Program hosts public presentations by artists, designers, and scholars each year in lectures, symposia, performances, and screenings. It is an eclectic program that showcases artists' working in all media, including sound, video, performance, poetry, painting, and independent film; in addition to significant curators, critics, and art historians.\n\nRecent visiting artists have included Catherine Opie, Andi Zeisler, Aaron Koblin, Jean Shin, Sam Lipsyte, Ben Marcus, Marilyn Minter, Pearl Fryar, Tehching Hsieh, Homi K. Bhabha, Bill Fontana, Wolfgang Laib, Suzanne Lee, and Amar Kanwar among others.\n\nAdditionally, the Distinguished Alumni Series brings alumni back to the community to present their work and reflect on how their experiences at SAIC have shaped them. Recent alumni speakers include Tania Bruguera, Jenni Sorkin, Kori Newkirk, Maria Martinez-Cañas, Saya Woolfalk, Jun Nguyen-Hatsushiba, and Sanford Biggers to name a few.\n\n\nExTV is a student-run time-arts platform that broadcasts online and on campus. Its broadcasts are available via monitors located throughout the 112 S. Michigan building, the 37 S Wabash building, and the 280 S. Columbus building. It is available on campus and off campus at extvsaic.org and on cantv.\n\n\"F Newsmagazine\" is a student-run newspaper with both paid and volunteer positions. The magazine is a monthly publication with a run of 12,000 copies. Copies are distributed throughout the city, mainly at locations frequented by students such as popular diners and movie theaters.\n\nFree Radio SAIC is the student-run Internet radio station of The School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Free Radio uses an open programming format and encourage its DJs to explore and experiment with the medium of live radio. Program content and style vary but generally include music from all genres, sound art, narratives, live performances, current events and interviews. \n\nFeatured bands and guests on Free Radio SAIC include Nü Sensae, The Black Belles, Thomas Comerford, Kevin Michael Richardson, Jeff Bennett, Carolyn Lawrence, and much more.\n\nThe student government of SAIC is unique in that its constitution resembles a socialist republic, in which four officers hold equal power and responsibility. Elections are held every year. There are no campaign requirements. Any group of four students may run for office, but there must always be four students.\n\nThe student government is responsible for hosting a school-wide student meeting once a month. At these meetings students discuss school concerns of any nature. The predominant topic is funding for the various student organizations. Organizations which desire funding must present a proposal at the meeting by which the students vote whether they should receive monies or not. The student government cannot participate in the vote: only oversee it.\n\nThe student government is also responsible for the distribution of the Peanut Butter & Jelly Fund, Welcome Back to School Party, Monthly Morning Coffees, Open Forums, Barbecues in the Pit (the outdoor area at the entrance of the 280 S Columbus Building), Holiday Art Sale, and a Materials Event. In the past Student Government has accomplished such things as campus-wide recycling, and access to the Chicago Transit Authority's U-Pass.\n\nIn a survey conducted by the National Arts Journalism Program at Columbia University, SAIC was named the “most influential art school” by art critics at general interest news publications from across the United States.\n\nIn 2017, US News ranked SAIC the fourth best overall graduate program for fine arts in the U.S. tying with the Rhode Island school of Design. In January 2013, The Global Language Monitor ranked SAIC as the #5 college in the U.S., the highest ever for an art or design school in a general college ranking.\n\nOn May 11, 1988, a student painting depicting Harold Washington, the first black mayor of Chicago, was torn down by some of the city's African-American aldermen — over the protests of many who attempted to block them — based on its content. The painting, titled \"Mirth & Girth\" by David Nelson, was of Washington clad only in women's underwear holding a pencil. Washington died on November 25, 1987.\n\nThe painting was returned after a day, and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) filed a lawsuit against the Chicago Police Department and the aldermen. The ACLU claimed the removal violated Nelson's First, Fourth, and Fourteenth amendment rights. Nelson ended up receiving a monetary settlement for damage to the painting which occurred during its confiscation.\n\nIn February 1989, a student named \"Dread\" Scott Tyler draped the Flag of the United States across the floor for a piece titled \"What Is the Proper Way to Display a U.S. Flag?\" The piece consisted of a podium with a notebook for viewers to express how they felt about the exhibit. However, the podium was set upon a flag laid on the floor. In order for viewers to write in the notebook, they would have to walk on the flag. Viewers were occasionally arrested at the request of veterans. The school stood by the student's art in the face of protests and threats. That year, the school's federal funding was cut from $70,000 to $1 and many benefactors pulled donations.\n\nIn 2017, a controversy arose over the resignation of Michael Bonesteel, an adjunct professor specializing in outsider art and comics after two Title IX complaints were filed. Bonesteel described the SAIC investigation as a \"Kafkaesque trial\" in which he was never shown copies of the complaints and in which he was guilty until proven innocent and that SAIC \"feels more like a police state than a place where academic freedom and the open exchange of ideas is valued\". Laura Kipnis, author of on Title IX cases, described SAIC as displaying \"jawdropping cowardice\" and said \"The idea that students are trying to censor or curb a professor’s opinions or thinking is appalling\". The School said the claims made against it were \"problematic\" and \"misleading\" and said it supports academic freedom.\n\nThis is a list of property in order of acquisition:\n\nSAIC also owns these properties outside of the immediate vicinity of the Chicago Loop:\n\nSAIC leases:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11466435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11466435", "title": "Sculptors Society of Canada", "text": "Sculptors Society of Canada\n\nThe Sculptors Society of Canada (SSC) promotes and exhibits contemporary Canadian sculpture.\n\nFounded by Canadian sculptors Frances Loring, Florence Wyle, Elizabeth Wyn Wood, Wood's teacher and husband Emanuel Hahn, Henri Hébert and Alfred Laliberté, the Sculptors Society of Canada has been exhibiting sculpture in Canada since 1928, particularly in Montreal, Quebec, Ottawa, Ontario and Toronto, Ontario.\n\nThe Canadian Sculpture Centre is the Society's public exhibit gallery, and is located on Church Street in Toronto.\n\n"}
{"id": "20597849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20597849", "title": "Severan art", "text": "Severan art\n\nSeveran art is art production by the Roman Empire under the Severan dynasty, usually taken as running from 193 to 235, through the emperors Septimius Severus, Caracalla, Heliogabalus and Alexander Severus. Official Roman art of the military anarchy which followed, ending in 253 with Gallienus, has no character of its own and so can be seen as a continuation of Severan art, and so that art can be seen as running for the whole first half of the 3rd century.\n\nIn this period began the process that ended in the rupture between Roman art and that of Late Antiquity, the watershed between classical art and that of Byzantium and the Middle Ages. Some of Severan art's products saw the emergence of obvious elements from plebeian art and provincial art, whilst in other areas traditionally Hellenistic elements were kept alive longer, such as in portraiture, which flourished in this period with masterpieces of great psychological depth.\n\n"}
{"id": "38408683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38408683", "title": "Society of American Graphic Artists", "text": "Society of American Graphic Artists\n\nThe Society of American Graphic Artists (SAGA) is a not for profit national fine arts organization serving professional artists in the field of printmaking. SAGA provides its members with exhibition, reviews and networking opportunities in the New York City area and, in addition to various substantial exhibition prizes, many purchase awards allow SAGA members to be included in major U.S. museum collections.\n\nThe origins of the organization date back to 1915 with the formation of the Brooklyn Society of Etchers. After several name changes, the present title was adopted in 1952 to allow for the inclusion of a full range of hand pulled printmaking techniques. Over the course of its close to 100 years of continuous operation, many important national and international modern artists have exhibited with SAGA, including Henri Matisse, Kathe Kollowitz, John Sloan, Edward Hopper, Pablo Picasso, Mary Cassatt, Joseph Pennell, John Marin, Childe Hassam and John Taylor Arms. SAGA continues to attract a diverse group of contemporary printmakers who serve as important contributors to and ambassadors of printmaking in the United States. SAGA also maintains a collector print collection of member work and publishes a periodical journal of writing on printmaking-related topics, which is entitled SAGAzine. SAGA’s current offices are at the former New York studio of John Sloan.\n\nSAGA has been active since its inception in 1915 under the name of the Brooklyn Society of Etchers, and has organized over 79 National Member Exhibitions, in addition to various international, traveling and exchange exhibitions.\n\nIn relation to other artists’ associations of the time, SAGA was modeled more closely to the French impressionist group (Cooperative Society of Painters, Sculptors, Engravers, etc.) which was focused on organizing exhibitions for its members, rather than other printmaking organizations such as the British Etching Club or the French Society of Etchers (Societe des Aquafortistes) which were highly selective and secretive with very few members or focused more on commercial promotions, respectively. \n\nWith the advent of artists’ societies and clubs in the United States in the latter part of the 19th century, the New York Etching Club founded in 1877 gave way to establishment of the Brooklyn Society of Etchers which was organized 22 years after its disbandment. Founding members included Troy Kinney, Eugene Higgins, Fred Reynolds, Paul Roche, and Ernest Roth. Approximately 200 etchings by sixty-five artists including John Taylor Arms, Frank W. Benson, Mary Cassatt, Childe Hassam, John Marin, and Mahonri Young where exhibited at the Brooklyn Museum as part of the organization’s inaugural exhibition.\n\nThe organization continued to grow aggressively during the first fifteen years of its existence with both the membership and number of prints exhibited at the annual exhibitions tripling. The first international exhibition was organized at the Anderson Galleries in New York in 1922, including works by several major European and American artists such as Mary Cassatt, Ernest Haskell, Childe Hassam, Edward Hopper, Wilhelm Lembrook, Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Camille Pissarro, and John Sloan. \n\nThe organization decided to rename to the Society of American Etchers, Inc. since membership had grown to include many other geographic areas beyond Brooklyn, and the exhibitions were moved from the Brooklyn Museum to the National Arts Club in New York. Membership grew to include important printmakers of the 1930s including Isabelle Bishop, Mina Citron, Kenneth Hayes, Stanley William Hayter, John Sloan and Reginald Marsh. Further, it was during this time that exhibit exchanges with European print clubs were organized. \n\nIn 1947, the society organized the largest show in its history, a collection of over 650 prints at the National Academy. Since many of these prints utilized techniques such as woodcut, wood engraving, and lithography, the organization was renamed to the Society of American Etchers, Gravers, Lithographers, and Woodcutters, Inc. and then again to its current designation the Society of American Graphic Artists in 1952.\n\nWith the ever changing climate of visual arts, printmaking has also undergone changes from the birth of non-objectivity, to surrealism, abstraction and beyond. A study of the catalogues of SAGA's exhibitions reflects these changes but it also shows SAGA's openness to all styles. In this respect the society has always followed the precept of its longtime president from 1931 to 1952, John Taylor Arms, who felt that SAGA should represent all techniques and styles in order to represent a true cross section of contemporary printmaking.\n\nSince its inception, SAGA has promoted many renowned professional artists as members and exhibitors.\n\nGrace Albee, John Taylor Arms, Will Barnet, Lionel Barrymore, Isabelle Bishop, Jean Charlot, Mina Citron, Howard Cook, Adolph Dehn, Johan Gross-Bettelheim, Childe Hassam, Kenneth Hayes, Stanley William Hayter, Edward Hopper, Marvin Jules, Robert Kipniss, Kathe Kollowitz, Armin Landeck, Claire Leighton, Wilhelm Lembrook, Martin Lewis, John Marin, Reginald Marsh, John A. Noble, Joseph Pennell, Camille Pissarro, John Sloan, Lynd Ward and Stow Wengenroth\n\nShelley Thorstensen, Gerald Marcus, Linda Adato, Richard Sloat, William Behnken, Martin Levine, Michael DiCerbo, Dan Welden, Steven Yamin, Robert Broner, Gerson Leiber, Stanley Kaplan, Anne Steele Marsh, Martin Barooshian, David Shapiro, Clare Romano, Chaim Koppelman, John Ross, Gladys Mock, Carl M. Schulteiss, Lynd Ward, Frederick T. Weber, George O. \"Pop\" Hart, John Taylor Arms, Eugene Higgins, Ernest D. Roth\n"}
{"id": "4380624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4380624", "title": "Solar eclipses in fiction", "text": "Solar eclipses in fiction\n\nThis is a list of fictional stories in which solar eclipses feature as an important plot element. Mere passing mentions are not listed.\n\nThere is a body of films featuring solar eclipses. Compared to other astronomical events featured in films, such as full moons and asteroid strikes, solar eclipses are less commonly seen. When they have featured in films, they often drive the plot and have a portentous presence. NPR's Glen Weldon said that films use eclipses \"to signal to audiences that the normal rules have temporarily lifted, and things are about to get weird.\" The first film to feature a solar eclipse was the 1907 silent film \"The Eclipse, or the Courtship of the Sun and Moon\", which featured a solar eclipse as a fantastical consummation between the sun and the moon. Eclipses have been seen as bad omens throughout history and filmmakers leverage that belief \"as visual cues or key plot points\", according to \"The Oregonian\"s Amy Wang. The most accurate depiction of a solar eclipse in film is seen in the 1961 religious epic film \"Barabbas\", which included film of an actual solar eclipse during a crucifixion scene.\n\nWhile director Peter Weir was filming \"Witness\" (1985) in the Amish region of Pennsylvania, a solar eclipse occurred on May 30, 1984. Weir filmed several of his actors in costume, responding to the eclipse, with the vague intention of revising the film's plot to include a solar eclipse. The eclipse footage was not included in the final edit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20000436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20000436", "title": "The Aesthetic Dimension", "text": "The Aesthetic Dimension\n\nThe Aesthetic Dimension: Toward a Critique of Marxist Aesthetics () is a 1977 book on aesthetics by the philosopher Herbert Marcuse, in which the author provides an account of modern art's political implications and relationship with society at large.\n\nIt is the final major work by Marcuse, a founding member of the Frankfurt School. The book is also noteworthy as a demarcation of Marcuse's split with Marxism via his rejection of Marxist aesthetics.\n\n\"The Aesthetic Dimension\" (not to be confused with a chapter from Marcuse's \"Eros and Civilization\" of the same name) is a response to previous writings within critical theory on the subject of art, notably those of Walter Benjamin and Theodor Adorno. Marcuse rejected Benjamin's call in \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" for the politicization (i.e., a literal reflection of perceived political realities) of modern, reproducible art both to reflect the state of a society and to incite change. Like both Benjamin and Adorno, Marcuse believed that art promises resistance to societal repression, and that a cultural revolution is necessarily connected to a political or social revolution. Adorno (as represented mainly by his posthumous \"Aesthetic Theory\") and Marcuse agreed that this possibility must be realized through artistic detachment and symbolism. Marcuse however offered a more inclusive and less radical suggestion for modern art's source of power than did Adorno, who believed that the works of high culture were the sole artistic source of potential emancipation.\n\nMarcuse instead pointed to what he perceived to be the successes of high culture and translated these to all areas of art. For Marcuse, art's promise of transcendence could only be fulfilled via a conceptual independence from society, but this independence is accessible through a host of media. The successful artist will attain \"truth\" in his work through \"detachment\" that results in \"symbolic representation.\" This successful art must necessarily invoke a longing for something utopian and the promise of ultimate happiness represented by beauty. This symbolic longing for fulfillment will awaken us from complacency.\n\nMarcuse stated in the book's introduction that he considered literature the primary source of his influence for this system, but feels that the ideas would apply to music and plastic arts as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "46486713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46486713", "title": "The Mosuo Sisters", "text": "The Mosuo Sisters\n\nThe Mosuo Sisters is a 2012 documentary film written and directed by Marlo Poras. It chronicles the lives of two sisters, Jua Ma and La Tsuo, who are members of one of the last matriarchal societies, the Mosuo tribe. Being an ethnic minority in China, the film explores their journey from working at a bar in Beijing to moving back home to their village in the Himalayas, dealing with the modern world impinging upon the traditional Mosuo culture and way of life.\n\nThe filmmakers followed Jua Ma and La Tsuo for over two years, chronicling their lives as they moved back home and back to their culture. The Mosuo tribe is the last remaining matriarchal society in China and one of the last ones in the world. Both sisters face many misconceptions when it comes to their rare culture, especially about the concept of walking marriages. As the sisters return to their home and the traditional culture of the Mosuo, they struggle with reconciling the modern society of Beijing with their own culture. Jua Ma returns to the city in hopes of pursuing an entertainment career that will allow her to support her family, while La Tsuo sacrifices her accounting class and hopes for a future in accounting in order to stay home and help on the farm.\n\nBest Documentary Film, Rural Route Film Festival\n\n"}
{"id": "2796354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2796354", "title": "Wolf ticket (Russia)", "text": "Wolf ticket (Russia)\n\nWolf ticket is a literal translation of the Russian language phrase (volchiy bilyet), a colloquial expression to denote a version of a document with restrictive clauses in comparison to the full document. Figuratively, the phrase remains in use in many of the countries of the former communist bloc, usually to denote any kind of document that negatively affects one's career.\n\nOriginally the phrase was used in Imperial Russia to denote a document issued in lieu of the internal passport to persons who were given a half-year postponement of katorga or exile for settling personal affairs. Later, it denoted a limited certificate for completion of studies. Unlike a regular diploma, it merely stated that the studies were completed, but the student was not allowed to take exams for reasons of poor study or improper behavior.\n\nA wolf ticket was a serious impediment to one's career. Still later this phrase was applied to a document issued in place of an internal passport to persons released from imprisonment (\"certificate of release\"). Usually this kind of document restricted the rights of a citizen in terms of place of residence (the 101st kilometre rule), occupation, and so on.\n\n"}
{"id": "504688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=504688", "title": "Woman's Hour", "text": "Woman's Hour\n\nWoman's Hour is a radio magazine programme broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in the United Kingdom.\n\nCreated by Norman Collins and originally presented by Alan Ivimey, \"Woman's Hour\" was first broadcast on 7 October 1946 on the BBC's Light Programme (now called Radio 2). Janet Quigley, who was also involved with the birth of the UK radio programme Today, has been credited with \"virtually creating\" the programme. \n\nThe programme was transferred to its current home in 1973. Over the years it has been presented by Joan Griffiths, Violet Carson, Olive Shapley, Jean Metcalfe (1947, 1958), Marjorie Anderson (until 1972), Judith Chalmers (19661970), Sue MacGregor (19721987), Jenni Murray (since 1987), Martha Kearney (1998 to March 2007), and Jane Garvey (since 8 October 2007). Fill-in presenters have included Sheila McClennon, Carolyn Quinn, Jane Little, Ritula Shah, Oona King, Amanda Platell and Emma Barnett.\n\nOn 31 December 2004, the show became \"Man's Hour\" for one day only, on which it was presented by Channel 4 News anchor Jon Snow. On 18 July 2010, after 64 years of \"Woman's Hour\", the BBC began broadcasting a full series called Men's Hour on BBC Radio 5 Live, presented by Tim Samuels.\n\nAs of 2013, the programme had 3.9 million listeners, 14% of whom were men. In 2006 it had 2.7 million listeners, 4% of whom were men.\n\nFor one week in April 2014, the programme was guest edited by J. K. Rowling, Kelly Holmes, Naomi Alderman, Doreen Lawrence and Lauren Laverne. It was the first time the programme had a guest editor since its initial decade of broadcast. In September 2015, the programme hosted \"Woman's Hour Takeover\" with a week of guest editors, including Kim Cattrall, Nimko Ali, Rachel Treweek, Michelle Mone and Jacqueline Wilson.\n\n\"Late Night Woman's Hour\", a spinoff series, was launched in 2015, presented by Lauren Laverne. The series airs in an 11pm timeslot and each episode takes a single topic for discussion.\n\nIn its current format, the first 45 minutes of the programme consist of reports, interviews and debates on health, education, cultural and political topics aimed at women and mothers. The last 15 minutes feature short-run drama serials (\"Woman's Hour Drama\"), which periodically change. One of the most popular of these are the recurring \"Ladies of Letters\" serials, starring Prunella Scales and Patricia Routledge. (This section is also broadcast at 7:45pm.) Before 1998 the last quarter of an hour was dedicated to readings.\n\n\"Woman's Hour\" has been broadcast at 10am Monday to Friday since James Boyle's revision of the Radio 4 schedules in April 1998. Between September 1991 and April 1998 it was broadcast at 10:30am, having previously gone out for many years in an early afternoon slot (2pm). The programme's move to a morning slot was unpopular among some listeners who, for family or other reasons, work only in the morning. Michael Green, the then controller of Radio 4, made his decision the previous year and considered the elimination of the programme title. \"Weekend Woman's Hour\" is broadcast on Saturday afternoons at 4pm, and features highlights of the previous week. Additionally, episodes are made available as a podcast following the broadcast of each programme.\n\nIn its earlier years, it used a variety of popular light classics as signature tunes, including such pieces as H. Elliott-Smith's \"Wanderlust (Waltz)\", Anthony Collins' \"Vanity Fair\", and the lively Overture from Gabriel Fauré's \"Masques et Bergamasques.\" From the early 1970s, specially composed pieces were used, several of which were provided by the BBC Radiophonic Workshop.\n\nThere is also a band called Woman's Hour based in the UK and signed to Secretly Canadian records who took their name from the radio show.\n\nThe programme maintains links with Women's Aid and the Fawcett Society, a campaign group that promotes using the media to secure political change on women's behalf.\n\n"}
{"id": "45353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45353", "title": "Writer", "text": "Writer\n\nA writer is a person who uses written words in various styles and techniques to communicate their ideas. Writers produce various forms of literary art and creative writing such as novels, short stories, poetry, plays, screenplays, and essays as well as various reports and news articles that may be of interest to the public. Writers' texts are published across a range of media. Skilled writers who are able to use language to express ideas well, often contribute significantly to the cultural content of a society. \n\nThe term \"writer\" is also used elsewhere in the arts – such as songwriter – but as a standalone \"writer\" normally refers to the creation of written language. Some writers work from an oral tradition.\n\nWriters can produce material across a number of genres, fictional or non-fictional. Other writers use multiple media – for example, graphics or illustration – to enhance the communication of their ideas. Another recent demand has been created by civil and government readers for the work of non-fictional technical writers, whose skills create understandable, interpretive documents of a practical or scientific nature. Some writers may use images (drawing, painting, graphics) or multimedia to augment their writing. In rare instances, creative writers are able to communicate their ideas via music as well as words.\n\nAs well as producing their own written works, writers often write on \"how\" they write (that is, the process they use); \"why\" they write (that is, their motivation); and also comment on the work of other writers (criticism). Writers work professionally or non-professionally, that is, for payment or without payment and may be paid either in advance (or on acceptance), or only after their work is published. Payment is only one of the motivations of writers and many are never paid for their work.\n\nThe term \"writer\" is often used as a synonym of \"author\", although the latter term has a somewhat broader meaning and is used to convey legal responsibility for a piece of writing, even if its composition is anonymous, unknown or collaborative.\n\nWriters choose from a range of literary genres to express their ideas. Most writing can be adapted for use in another medium. For example, a writer's work may be read privately or recited or performed in a play or film. Satire for example, may be written as a poem, an essay, a film, a comic play, or a piece of journalism. The writer of a letter may include elements of criticism, biography, or journalism.\n\nMany writers work across genres. The genre sets the parameters but all kinds of creative adaptation have been attempted: novel to film; poem to play; history to musical. Writers may begin their career in one genre and change to another. For example, historian William Dalrymple began in the genre of travel literature and also writes as a journalist. Many writers have produced both fiction and non-fiction works and others write in a genre that crosses the two. For example, writers of historical romances, such as Georgette Heyer, invent characters and stories set in historical periods. In this genre, the accuracy of the history and the level of factual detail in the work both tend to be debated. Some writers write both creative fiction and serious analysis, sometimes using different names to separate their work. Dorothy Sayers, for example, wrote crime fiction but was also a playwright, essayist, translator, and critic.\n\nPoets make maximum use of the language to achieve an emotional and sensory effect as well as a cognitive one. To create these effects, they use rhyme and rhythm and they also exploit the properties of words with a range of other techniques such as alliteration and assonance. A common theme is love and its vicissitudes. Shakespeare's famous love story \"Romeo and Juliet\", for example, written in a variety of poetic forms, has been performed in innumerable theatres and made into at least eight cinematic versions. John Donne is another poet renowned for his love poetry.\n\nNovelists write novels – stories that explore universal themes through fiction. They situate invented characters and plots in a narrative designed to be both credible and entertaining.\nA satirist uses wit to ridicule the shortcomings of society or individuals, with the intent of exposing stupidity. Usually, the subject of the satire is a contemporary issue such as ineffective political decisions or politicians, although human vices such as greed are also a common and universal subject. Philosopher Voltaire wrote a satire about optimism called \"Candide\", which was subsequently turned into an opera, and many well known lyricists wrote for it. There are elements of Absurdism in \"Candide\", just as there are in the work of contemporary satirist Barry Humphries, who writes comic satire for his character Dame Edna Everage to perform on stage.\n\nSatirists use various techniques such as irony, sarcasm, and hyperbole to make their point and they choose from the full range of genres – the satire may be in the form of prose or poetry or dialogue in a film, for example. One of the most famous satirists is Jonathan Swift who wrote the four-volume work \"Gulliver's Travels\" and many other satires, including \"A Modest Proposal\" and \"The Battle of the Books\".\n\nA short story writer is a writer of short stories, works of fiction that can be read in a single sitting.\n\nLibretti (the plural of libretto) are the texts for musical works such as operas. The Venetian poet and librettist Lorenzo Da Ponte, for example, wrote the libretto for some of Mozart's greatest operas. Luigi Illica and Giuseppe Giacosa were Italian librettists who wrote for Giacomo Puccini. Most opera composers collaborate with a librettist but unusually, Richard Wagner wrote both the music and the libretti for his works himself.\n\nUsually writing in verses and choruses, a lyricist specializes in writing lyrics, the words that accompany or underscore a song or opera. Lyricists also write the words for songs. In the case of Tom Lehrer, these were satirical. Lyricist Noël Coward, who wrote musicals and songs such as \"Mad Dogs and Englishmen\" and the recited song \"I Went to a Marvellous Party\", also wrote plays and films and performed on stage and screen as well. Writers of lyrics, such as these two, adapt other writers' work as well as create entirely original pieces.\n\nA playwright writes plays which may or may not be performed on a stage by actors. A play's narrative is driven by dialogue. Like novelists, playwrights usually explore a theme by showing how people respond to a set of circumstances. As writers, playwrights must make the language and the dialogue succeed in terms of the characters who speak the lines as well as in the play as a whole. Since most plays are performed, rather than read privately, the playwright has to produce a text that works in spoken form and can also hold an audience's attention over the period of the performance. Plays tell \"a story the audience should care about\", so writers have to cut anything that worked against that. Plays may be written in prose or verse. Shakespeare wrote plays in iambic pentameter as does Mike Bartlett in his play \"King Charles III\" (2014).\n\nPlaywrights also adapt or re-write other works, such as plays written earlier or literary works originally in another genre. Famous playwrights such as Henrik Ibsen or Anton Chekhov have had their works adapted many times. The plays of early Greek playwrights Sophocles, Euripides, and Aeschylus are still performed. Adaptations of a playwright's work may be faithful to the original or creatively interpreted. If the writers' purpose in re-writing the play is to produce a film, they will have to prepare a screenplay. Shakespeare's plays, for example, while still regularly performed in the original form, are often adapted and abridged, especially for the cinema. An example of a creative modern adaptation of a play that nonetheless used the original writer's words, is Baz Luhrmann's version of \"Romeo and Juliet\". The amendment of the name to \"Romeo + Juliet\" indicates to the audience that the version will be different from the original. Tom Stoppard's play \"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead\" is a play inspired by Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" that takes two of Shakespeare's most minor characters and creates a new play in which they are the protagonists.\n\nScreenwriters write a screenplay – or script – that provides the words for media productions such as films, television programs and video games. Screenwriters may start their careers by writing the screenplay speculatively; that is, they write a script with no advance payment, solicitation or contract. On the other hand, they may be employed or commissioned to adapt the work of a playwright or novelist or other writer. Self-employed writers who are paid by contract to write are known as freelancers and screenwriters often work under this type of arrangement.\n\nScreenwriters, playwrights and other writers are inspired by the great themes and often use similar and familiar plot devices to explore them. For example, in Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" is a \"play within a play\", which the hero uses to demonstrate the king's guilt. Hamlet gains the co-operation of the actors to set up the play as a thing \"wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king\". teleplay writer Joe Menosky deploys the same \"play within a play\" device in an episode of the science fiction television series \"\". The bronze-age playwright/hero enlists the support of a \"Star Trek\" crew member to create a play that will convince the ruler (or \"patron\" as he is called), of the futility of war.\n\nA speechwriter prepares the text for a speech to be given before a group or crowd on a specific occasion and for a specific purpose. They are often intended to be persuasive or inspiring, such as the speeches given by skilled orators like Cicero; charismatic or influential political leaders like Nelson Mandela; or for use in a court of law or parliament. The writer of the speech may be the person intended to deliver it, or it might be prepared by a person hired for the task on behalf of someone else. Such is the case when speechwriters are employed by many senior-level elected officials and executives in both government and private sectors.\n\nBiographers write an account of another person's life. Richard Ellmann (1918–1987), for example, was an eminent and award-winning biographer whose work focused on the Irish writers James Joyce, William Butler Yeats, and Oscar Wilde. For the Wilde biography, he won the 1989 Pulitzer Prize for Biography.\n\nCritics consider and assess the extent to which a work succeeds in its purpose. The work under consideration may be literary, theatrical, musical, artistic, or architectural. In assessing the success of a work, the critic takes account of why it was done – for example, why a text was written, for whom, in what style, and under what circumstances. After making such an assessment, critics write and publish their evaluation, adding the value of their scholarship and thinking to substantiate any opinion. The theory of criticism is an area of study in itself: a good critic understands and is able to incorporate the theory behind the work they are evaluating into their assessment. Some critics are already writers in another genre. For example, they might be novelists or essayists. Influential and respected writer/critics include the art critic Charles Baudelaire (1821–1867) and the literary critic James Wood (born 1965), both of whom have books published containing collections of their criticism. Some critics are poor writers and produce only superficial or unsubstantiated work. Hence, while anyone can be an uninformed critic, the notable characteristics of a good critic are understanding, insight, and an ability to write well.\n\nAn editor prepares literary material for publication. The material may be the editor's own original work but more commonly, an editor works with the material of one or more other people. There are different types of editor. Copy editors format text to a particular style and/or correct errors in grammar and spelling without changing the text substantively. On the other hand, an editor may suggest or undertake significant changes to a text to improve its readability, sense or structure. This latter type of editor can go so far as to excise some parts of the text, add new parts, or restructure the whole. The work of editors of ancient texts or manuscripts or collections of works results in differing editions. For example, there are many editions of Shakespeare's plays by notable editors who also contribute original introductions to the resulting publication. Editors who work on journals and newspapers have varying levels of responsibility for the text – they may write original material, in particular, editorials; select what is to be included from a range of items on offer; format the material; or check its accuracy.\n\nEncyclopaedists create organised bodies of knowledge. Denis Diderot (1713–1784) is renowned for his contributions to the \"Encyclopédie\". The encyclopaedist Bernardino de Sahagún (1499–1590) was a Franciscan whose \"Historia general de las cosas de Nueva España\" is a vast encyclopedia of Mesoamerican civilisation, commonly referred to as the \"Florentine Codex\", after the Italian manuscript library which holds the best preserved copy.\n\nEssayists write essays, which are original pieces of writing of moderate length in which the author makes a case in support of an opinion. They are usually in prose, but some writers have used poetry to present their argument.\n\nA historian is a person who studies and writes about the past and is regarded as an authority on it. The purpose of a historian is to employ historical analysis to create coherent narratives that explain \"what happened\" and \"why or how it happened\". Professional historians typically work in colleges and universities, archival centers, government agencies, museums, and as freelance writers and consultants. Edward Gibbon's six volume \"History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" influenced the development of historiography.\n\nWriters who create dictionaries are called lexicographers. One of the most famous is Samuel Johnson (1709–1784), whose \"Dictionary of the English Language\" was regarded not only as a great personal scholarly achievement but was also dictionary of such pre-eminence, that would have been referred to by such writers as Jane Austen.\n\nResearchers and scholars who write about their discoveries and ideas sometimes have profound effects on society. Scientists and philosophers are good examples because their new ideas can revolutionise the way people think and how they behave. Three of the best known examples of such a revolutionary effect are Nicolaus Copernicus, who wrote \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" (1543); Charles Darwin, who wrote \"On the Origin of Species\" (1859); and Sigmund Freud, who wrote \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" (1899).\n\nThese three highly influential, and initially very controversial, works changed the way people understood their place in the world. Copernicus's heliocentric view of the cosmos displaced humans from their previously accepted place at the centre of the universe; Darwin's evolutionary theory placed humans firmly within, as opposed to above, the order of nature; and Freud's ideas about the power of the unconscious mind overcame the belief that humans were consciously in control of all their own actions.\n\nTranslators have the task of finding some equivalence in another language to a writer's meaning, intention and style. Translators whose work has had very significant cultural effect include Al-Ḥajjāj ibn Yūsuf ibn Maṭar, who translated \"Elements\" from Greek into Arabic and Jean-François Champollion, who deciphered Egyptian hieroglyphs with the result that he could publish the first translation of the Rosetta Stone hieroglyphs in 1822. Difficulties with translation are exacerbated when words or phrases incorporate rhymes, rhythms, or puns; or when they have connotations in one language that are non-existent in another. For example, the title of \"Le Grand Meaulnes\" by Alain-Fournier is supposedly untranslatable because \"no English adjective will convey all the shades of meaning that can be read into the simple [French] word 'grand' which takes on overtones as the story progresses.\" Translators have also become a part of events where political figures who speak different languages meet to look into the relations between countries or solve political conflicts. It is highly critical for the translator to deliver the right information as a drastic impact could be caused if any error occurred. \n\nWriters of blogs, which have appeared on the World Wide Web since the 1990s, need no authorisation to be published. The contents of these short opinion pieces or \"posts\" form a commentary on issues of specific interest to readers who can use the same technology to interact with the author, with an immediacy hitherto impossible. The ability to link to other sites means that some blog writers – and their writing – may become suddenly and unpredictably popular. Malala Yousafzai, a young Pakistani education activist, rose to prominence because of her blog for BBC.\n\nA blog writer is using the technology to create a message that is in some ways like a newsletter and in other ways, like a personal letter. \"The greatest difference between a blog and a photocopied school newsletter, or an annual family letter photocopied and mailed to a hundred friends, is the potential audience and the increased potential for direct communication between audience members\". Thus, as with other forms of letter, the writer knows some of the readers, but one of the main differences is that \"some of the audience will be random\" and \"that presumably changes the way we [writers] write.\" It has been argued that blogs owe a debt to Renaissance essayist Michel de Montaigne, whose \"Essais\" (\"attempts\"), were published in 1580, because Montaigne \"wrote as if he were chatting to his readers: just two friends, whiling away an afternoon in conversation\".\n\nColumnists write regular pieces for newspapers and other periodicals, usually containing a lively and entertaining expression of opinion. Some columnists have had collections of their best work published as a collection in a book, so that readers can re-read what would otherwise be no longer available. Columns are quite short pieces of writing so columnists often write in other genres as well. An example is the columnist Elizabeth Farrelly, who besides being a columnist, is also an architecture critic and author of books.\n\nWriters who record their experiences, thoughts or feelings in a sequential form over a period of time in a diary are known as diarists. Their writings can provide valuable insights into historical periods, specific events or individual personalities. Examples include Samuel Pepys (1633–1703), an English administrator and Member of Parliament, whose detailed private diary provides eyewitness accounts of events during the 17th century, most notably of the Great Fire of London. Anne Frank (1929–1945) was a 13-year-old girl whose diary from 1942 to 1944 records both her experiences as a persecuted Jew in World War II and an adolescent dealing with intra-family relationships.\n\nJournalists write reports about current events after investigating them and gathering information. Some journalists write reports about predictable or scheduled events such as social or political meetings. Others are investigative journalists who need to undertake considerable research and analysis in order to write an explanation or account of something complex that was hitherto unknown or not understood. Often investigative journalists are reporting criminal or corrupt activity which puts them at risk personally and means that what it is likely that attempts may be made to attack or suppress what they write. An example is Bob Woodward, a journalist who investigated and wrote about criminal activities by the US President.\nWriters of memoirs produce accounts from the memories of their own lives, which are deemed unusual, important, or scandalous enough to be of interest to general readers. Although intended to be factual, readers are alerted to the likelihood of some inaccuracies or bias towards an idiosyncratic perception by the choice of genre. A memoir, for example, is allowed to have a much more selective set of experiences than an autobiography which is expected to be more complete and make a greater attempt at balance. Famous memoirists include Frances Vane, Viscountess Vane, and Giacomo Casanova.\n\nGhostwriters write for, or in the style of, someone else so the credit goes to the person on whose behalf the writing is done.\n\nWriters of letters use a reliable form of transmission of messages between individuals, and surviving sets of letters provide insight into the motivations, cultural contexts, and events in the lives of their writers. Peter Abelard (1079–1142), philosopher, logician, and theologian is known not only for the heresy contained in some of his work, and the punishment of having to burn his own book, but also for the letters he wrote to Héloïse d'Argenteuil .\n\nThe letters (or epistles) of Paul the Apostle were so influential that over the 2000 years of Christian history, Paul became \"second only to Jesus in influence and the amount of discussion and interpretation generated\".\n\nReport writers are people who gather information, organise and document it so that it can be presented to some person or authority in a position to use it as the basis of a decision. Well-written reports influence policies as well as decisions. For example, Florence Nightingale (1820–1910) wrote reports that were intended to effect administrative reform in matters concerning health in the army. She documented her experience in the Crimean War and showed her determination to see improvements: \"...after six months of incredible industry she had put together and written with her own hand her \"Notes affecting the Health, Efficiency and Hospital Administration of the British Army.\" This extraordinary composition, filling more than eight hundred closely printed pages, laying down vast principles of far-reaching reform, discussing the minutest detail of a multitude of controversial subjects, containing an enormous mass of information of the most varied kinds – military, statistical, sanitary, architectural\" became for a long time, the \"leading authority on the medical administration of armies\".\n\nThe logs and reports of Master mariner William Bligh contributed to his being honourably acquitted at the court-martial inquiring into the loss of .\n\nA scribe writes ideas and information on behalf of another, sometimes copying from another document, sometimes from oral instruction on behalf of an illiterate person, sometimes transcribing from another medium such as a tape recording, shorthand, or personal notes.\n\nBeing able to write was a rare achievement for over 500 years in Western Europe so monks who copied texts were scribes responsible for saving many texts from classical times. The monasteries, where monks who knew how to read and write lived, provided an environment stable enough for writing. Irish monks, for example, came to Europe in about 600 and \"found manuscripts in places like Tours and Toulouse\" which they copied. The monastic writers also illustrated their books with highly skilled art work using gold and rare colours.\n\nA technical writer prepares instructions or manuals, such as user guides or owner's manuals for users of equipment to follow. Technical writers also write various procedures for business, professional or domestic use. Since the purpose of technical writing is practical rather than creative, its most important quality is clarity. The technical writer, unlike the creative writer, is required to adhere to the relevant style guide.\n\nThere is a range of approaches that writers take to the task of writing. Each writer needs to find their own process and most describe it as more or less a struggle.\nSometimes writers have had the bad fortune to lose their work and have had to start again. Before the invention of photocopiers and electronic text storage, a writer's work had to be stored on paper, which meant it was very susceptible to fire in particular. (In very early times, writers used vellum and clay which were more robust materials.) Writers whose work was destroyed before completion include L. L. Zamenhof, the inventor of Esperanto, whose years of work were thrown into the fire by his father because he was afraid that \"his son would be thought a spy working code\".\nEssayist and historian Thomas Carlyle, lost the only copy of a manuscript for \"\" when it was mistakenly thrown into the fire by a maid. He wrote it again from the beginning. Writers usually develop a personal schedule. Angus Wilson, for example, wrote for a number of hours every morning.\n\nWriter's block is a relatively common experience among writers, especially professional writers, when for a period of time the writer feels unable to write for reasons other than lack of skill or commitment.\n\nMost writers write alone – typically they are engaged in a solitary activity that requires them to struggle with both the concepts they are trying to express and the best way to express it. This may mean choosing the best genre or genres as well as choosing the best words. Writers often develop idiosyncratic solutions to the problem of finding the right words to put on a blank page or screen. \"Didn't Somerset Maugham also write facing a blank wall? ... Goethe couldn't write a line if there was another person anywhere in the same house, or so he said at some point.\"\n\nCollaborative writing means that multiple authors write and contribute to a piece of writing. In this approach, it is highly likely the writers will collaborate on editing the piece too. The more usual process is that the editing is done by an independent editor after the writer submits a draft version.\n\nIn some cases, such as that between a librettist and composer, a writer will collaborate with another artist on a creative work. One of the best known of these types of collaborations is that between Gilbert and Sullivan. Librettist W. S. Gilbert wrote the words for the comic operas created by the partnership.\n\nOccasionally, a writing task is given to a committee of writers. The most famous example is the task of translating the Bible into English, sponsored by King James VI of England in 1604 and accomplished by six committees, some in Cambridge and some in Oxford, who were allocated different sections of the text. The resulting Authorized King James Version, published in 1611, has been described as an \"everlasting miracle\" because its writers (that is, its Translators) sought to \"hold themselves consciously poised between the claims of accessibility and beauty, plainness and richness, simplicity and majesty, the people and the king\", with the result that the language communicates itself \"in a way which is quite unaffected, neither literary nor academic, not historical, nor reconstructionist, but transmitting a nearly incredible immediacy from one end of human civilisation to another.\"\n\nSome writers support the verbal part of their work with images or graphics that are an integral part of the way their ideas are communicated. William Blake is one of rare poets who created his own paintings and drawings as integral parts of works such as his \"Songs of Innocence and of Experience\". Cartoonists are writers whose work depends heavily on hand drawn imagery. Other writers, especially writers for children, incorporate painting or drawing in more or less sophisticated ways. Shaun Tan, for example, is a writer who uses imagery extensively, sometimes combining fact, fiction and illustration, sometimes for a didactic purpose, sometimes on commission. Children's writers Beatrix Potter, May Gibbs, and Theodor Seuss Geisel are as well known for their illustrations as for their texts.\n\nSome writers contribute very small sections to a piece of writing that cumulates as a result. This method is particularly suited to very large works, such as dictionaries and encyclopaedias. The best known example of the former is the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", under the editorship of lexicographer James Murray, who was provided with the prolific and helpful contributions of W.C. Minor, at the time an inmate of a hospital for the criminally insane.\n\nThe best known example of the latter – an encyclopaedia that is crowdsourced – is Wikipedia which relies on the contributions of thousands of volunteer writers and editors worldwide, such as Simon Pulsifer.\n\nWriters have many different reasons for writing, among which is usually some combination of self-expression and recording facts, history or research results. The many physician writers, for example, have combined their observation and knowledge of the human condition with their desire to write and contributed many poems, plays, translations, essays and other texts. Some writers write extensively on their motivation and on the likely motivations of other writers. For example, George Orwell's essay \"Why I Write\" (1946) takes this as its subject. As to \"what constitutes success or failure to a writer\", it has been described as \"a complicated business, where the material rubs up against the spiritual, and psychology plays a big part\".\n\nSome writers are the authors of specific military orders whose clarity will determine the outcome of a battle. Among the most controversial and unsuccessful was Lord Raglan's order at the Charge of the Light Brigade, which being vague and misinterpreted, led to defeat with many casualties.\n\nSome writers use the writing task to develop their own skill (in writing itself or in another area of knowledge) or explore an idea while they are producing a piece of writing. Philologist J. R. R. Tolkien, for example, created a new language for his fantasy books.\n\nSome genres are a particularly appropriate choice for writers whose chief purpose is to entertain. Among them are limericks, many comics and thrillers. Writers of children's literature seek to entertain children but are also usually mindful of the educative function of their work as well.\n\nAnger has motivated many writers, including Martin Luther, angry at religious corruption, who wrote the \"Ninety-five Theses\" in 1517, to reform the church, and Émile Zola (1840–1902) who wrote the public letter, \"J'Accuse\" in 1898 to bring public attention to government injustice, as a consequence of which he had to flee to England from his native France. Such writers have affected ideas, opinion or policy significantly.\n\nWriters may write a particular piece for payment (even if at other times, they write for another reason), such as when they are commissioned to create a new work, transcribe an old one, translate another writer's work, or write for someone who is illiterate or inarticulate. In some cases, writing has been the only way an individual could earn an income. Frances Trollope is an example of women who wrote to save herself and her family from penury, at a time when there were very few socially acceptable employment opportunities for them. Her book about her experiences in America, called \"Domestic Manners of the Americans\" became a great success, \"even though she was over fifty and had never written before in her life\" after which \"she continued to write hard, carrying this on almost entirely before breakfast\". According to her writer son Anthony Trollope \"her books saved the family from ruin\".\n\nAristotle, who was tutor to Alexander the Great, wrote to support his teaching. He wrote two treatises for the young prince: \"On Monarchy\", and \"On Colonies\" and his dialogues also appear to have been written either \"as lecture notes or discussion papers for use in his philosophy school at the Athens Lyceum between 334 and 323 BC.\" They encompass both his 'scientific' writings (metaphysics, physics, biology, meteorology, and astronomy, as well as logic and argument) the 'non-scientific' works (poetry, oratory, ethics, and politics), and \"major elements in traditional Greek and Roman education\".\n\nWriters of textbooks also use writing to teach and there are numerous instructional guides to writing itself. For example, many people will find it necessary to make a speech \"in the service of your company, church, civic club, political party, or other organization\" and so, instructional writers have produced texts and guides for speechmaking.\n\nMany writers use their skill to tell the story of their people, community or cultural tradition, especially one with a personal significance. Examples include Shmuel Yosef Agnon; Miguel Ángel Asturias; Doris Lessing; Toni Morrison; Isaac Bashevis Singer; and Patrick White.\nWriters such as Mario Vargas Llosa, Herta Müller, and Erich Maria Remarque write about the effect of conflict, dispossession and war.\n\nWriters use prose, poetry, and letters as part of courtship rituals. Edmond Rostand's play \"Cyrano de Bergerac\", written in verse, is about both the power of love and the power of the self-doubting writer/hero's writing talent.\n\nWriters sometimes use a pseudonym, otherwise known as a pen name or \"nom de plume\". The reasons they do this include to separate their writing from other work (or other types of writing) for which they are known; to enhance the possibility of publication by reducing prejudice (such as against women writers or writers of a particular ethnicity); to reduce personal risk (such as political risks from individuals, groups or states that disagree with them); or to make their name better suit another language.\n\nExamples of well-known writers who used a pen name include: George Eliot (1819–1880), whose real name was Mary Anne (or Marian) Evans; George Orwell (1903–1950), whose real name was Eric Blair; George Sand (1804–1876), whose real name was Lucile Aurore Dupin; Dr. Seuss (1904–1991), whose real name was Theodor Seuss Geisel; Stendhal (1783–1842), whose real name was Marie-Henri Beyle and Mark Twain (1835–1910), whose real name was Samuel Langhorne Clemens.\n\nApart from the large numbers of works attributable only to \"Anonymous\", there are a large number of writers who were once known and are now unknown. Efforts are made to find and re-publish these writers' works. One example is the publication of books like \"Japan As Seen and Described by Famous Writers\" (a 2010 reproduction of a pre-1923 publication) by \"Anonymous\". Another example is the founding of a Library and Study Centre for the Study of Early English Women's Writing in Chawton, England.\n\nSome fictional writers are very well known because of the strength of their characterization by the real writer or the significance of their role as writer in the plot of a work. Examples of this type of fictional writer include Edward Casaubon, a fictional scholar in George Eliot's \"Middlemarch\", and Edwin Reardon, a fictional writer in George Gissing's \"New Grub Street\". Casaubon's efforts to complete an authoritative study affect the decisions taken by the protagonists in Eliot's novel and drive significant parts of the plot. In Gissing's work, Reardon's efforts to produce high quality writing put him in conflict with another character, who takes a more commercial approach. Robinson Crusoe is a fictional writer who was originally credited by the real writer (Daniel Defoe) as being the author of the confessional letters in the work of the same name. Bridget Jones is a comparable fictional diarist created by writer Helen Fielding. Both works became famous and popular; their protagonists and story were developed further through many adaptations, including film versions. Cyrano de Bergerac was a real writer who created a fictional character with his own name. The \"Sibylline Books\", a collection of prophecies were supposed to have been purchased from the Cumaean Sibyl by the last king of Rome. Since they were consulted during periods of crisis, it could be said that they are a case of real works created by a fictional writer.\n\nReligious texts or scriptures are the texts which various religious traditions consider to be sacred, or of central importance to their religious tradition. Some religions and spiritual movements believe that their sacred texts are divinely or supernaturally revealed or inspired, while others have individual authors.\n\nSkilled writers influence ideas and society, so there are many instances where a writer's work or opinion has been unwelcome and controversial. In some cases, they have been persecuted or punished. Aware that their writing will cause controversy or put themselves and others into danger, some writers self-censor; or withhold their work from publication; or hide their manuscripts; or use some other technique to preserve and protect their work. Two of the most famous examples are Leonardo da Vinci and Charles Darwin. Leonardo \"had the habit of conversing with himself in his writings and of putting his thoughts into the clearest and most simple form\". He used \"left-handed or mirror writing\" (a technique described as \"so characteristic of him\") to protect his scientific research from other readers. The fear of persecution, social disgrace, and being proved incorrect are regarded as contributing factors to Darwin's delaying the publication of his radical and influential work \"On the Origin of Species\".\n\nOne of the results of controversies caused by a writer's work is scandal, which is a negative public reaction that causes damage to reputation and depends on public outrage. It has been said that it is possible to scandalise the public because the public \"wants to be shocked in order to confirm its own sense of virtue\". The scandal may be caused by what the writer wrote or by the style in which it was written. In either case, the content or the style is likely to have broken with tradition or expectation. Making such a departure may in fact, be part of the writer's intention or at least, part of the result of introducing innovations into the genre in which they are working. For example, novelist D H Lawrence challenged ideas of what was acceptable as well as what was expected in form. These may be regarded as literary scandals, just as, in a different way, are the scandals involving writers who mislead the public about their identity, such as Norma Khouri or Helen Darville who, in deceiving the public, are considered to have committed fraud.\n\nWriters may also cause the more usual type of scandal – whereby the public is outraged by the opinions, behaviour or life of the individual (an experience not limited to writers). Poet Paul Verlaine outraged society with his behaviour and treatment of his wife and child as well as his lover. Among the many writers whose writing or life was affected by scandals are Oscar Wilde, Lord Byron, Jean-Paul Sartre, Albert Camus, and H. G. Wells. One of the most famously scandalous writers was the Marquis de Sade who offended the public both by his writings \"and\" by his behaviour.\n\nThe consequence of scandal for a writer may be censorship or discrediting of the work, or social ostracism of its creator. In some instances, punishment, persecution, or prison follow. The list of journalists killed in Russia is an example. Others include:\n\nThe organisation Reporters Without Borders (also known by its French name: Reporters Sans Frontières) was set up to help protect writers and advocate on their behalf.\n\nThe professional and industrial interests of writers are represented by various national or regional guilds or unions. Examples include writers guilds in Australia and Great Britain and unions in Arabia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Canada, Estonia, Hungary, Ireland, Moldova, Philippines, Poland, Québéc, Romania, Russia, Sudan, and the Ukraine. In the United States, there is both a writers guild and a National Writers Union.\n\nThere are many awards for writers whose writing has been adjudged excellent. Among them are the many literary awards given by individual countries, such as the Prix Goncourt and the Pulitzer Prize, as well as international awards such as the Nobel Prize in Literature. Russian writer Boris Pasternak (1890–1960), under pressure from his government, reluctantly declined the Nobel Prize that he won in 1958.\n\n"}
