{"id": "646478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=646478", "title": "Abiogenic petroleum origin", "text": "Abiogenic petroleum origin\n\nAbiogenic petroleum origin is a term used to describe a number of different hypotheses which propose that petroleum and natural gas are formed by inorganic means rather than by the decomposition of organisms. The two principal abiogenic petroleum hypotheses, proposing that all petroleum is abiogenic, the \"deep gas hypothesis\" of Thomas Gold and the \"deep abiotic petroleum hypothesis\", have been scientifically reviewed and largely rejected.\n\nEarlier studies of mantle-derived rocks from many places have shown that hydrocarbons from the mantle region can be found widely around the globe. However, the content of such hydrocarbons in such rocks are extremely low and seem to lack accumulation in concentrations that would render them feasible for exploitation. Scientific consensus on the origin of oil and gas is that all natural oil and gas deposits on Earth are fossil fuels and are, therefore, biogenic. Globally significant amounts of abiotic oil in the crust can even be ruled out. Yet, abiogenesis of small quantities of oil and gas remains an area of ongoing research in limited, mostly just laboratory scale.\n\nSome abiogenic hypotheses have proposed that oil and gas did not originate from fossil deposits, but have instead originated from deep carbon deposits, present since the formation of the Earth. Additionally, it has been suggested that hydrocarbons may have arrived on Earth from solid bodies such as comets and asteroids from the late formation of the Solar System, carrying hydrocarbons with them.\n\nCertain abiogenic hypotheses gained some popularity among geologists over the past several centuries. Scientists in the former Soviet Union widely held that significant petroleum deposits could be attributed to abiogenic origin, though this view fell out of favor toward the end of the 20th century because they did not make useful predictions for the discovery of oil deposits. It has now been generally accepted that the theory of abiogenic formation of petroleum has insufficient scientific support and that oil and gas fuels on Earth are formed almost exclusively from organic material.\n\nThe abiogenic hypothesis regained some support in 2009 when researchers at the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) in Stockholm reported they believed they had proven that fossils from animals and plants are not necessary for crude oil and natural gas to be generated. In his 2014 publication \"Chemistry of the Climate System\", German chemist Detlev Moller documents sufficient reliable evidence to show that both processes can be shown to co-exist, that they're not mutually exclusive.\n\nAn abiogenic hypothesis was first proposed by Georgius Agricola in the 16th century and various additional abiogenic hypotheses were proposed in the 19th century, most notably by Prussian geographer Alexander von Humboldt, the Russian chemist Dmitri Mendeleev (1877) and the French chemist Marcellin Berthelot. Abiogenic hypotheses were revived in the last half of the 20 century by Soviet scientists who had little influence outside the Soviet Union because most of their research was published in Russian. The hypothesis was re-defined and made popular in the West by Thomas Gold who developed his theories from 1979 to 1998, and published his research in English.\n\nAbraham Gottlob Werner and the proponents of neptunism in the 18th century regarded basaltic sills as solidified oils or bitumen. While these notions proved unfounded, the basic idea of an association between petroleum and magmatism persisted. Alexander von Humboldt proposed an inorganic abiogenic hypothesis for petroleum formation after he observed petroleum springs in the Bay of Cumaux (Cumaná) on the northeast coast of Venezuela.\nHe is quoted as saying in 1804, \"the petroleum is the product of a distillation from great depth and issues from the primitive rocks beneath which the forces of all volcanic action lie\". Other early prominent proponents of what would become the generalized abiogenic hypothesis included Dmitri Mendeleev and Berthelot.\n\nIn 1951, the Soviet geologist Nikolai Alexandrovitch Kudryavtsev proposed the modern abiotic hypothesis of petroleum. On the basis of his analysis of the Athabasca Oil Sands in Alberta, Canada, he concluded that no \"source rocks\" could form the enormous volume of hydrocarbons, and therefore offered abiotic deep petroleum as the most plausible explanation. (Humic coals have since been proposed for the source rocks.) Others who continued Kudryavtsev's work included Petr N. Kropotkin, Vladimir B. Porfir'ev, Emmanuil B. Chekaliuk, Vladilen A. Krayushkin, Georgi E. Boyko, Georgi I. Voitov, Grygori N. Dolenko, Iona V. Greenberg, Nikolai S. Beskrovny, and Victor F. Linetsky.\n\nAstronomer Thomas Gold was a prominent proponent of the abiogenic hypothesis in the West until his death in 2004. More recently, Jack Kenney of Gas Resources Corporation has come to prominence, supported by studies by researchers at the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm.\n\nThe weight of evidence currently shows that petroleum is derived from ancient biomass. However, it still has to be established conclusively, which means that abiogenic alternative theories of petroleum formation cannot be dismissed. \nA 2006 review article by Geoffrey Glasby presented arguments against the abiogenic origin of petroleum on a number of counts; on the other hand several recent studies demonstrate that hydrocarbons heavier than methane can be produced by abiogenic processes\n\nWithin the mantle, carbon may exist as hydrocarbons—chiefly methane—and as elemental carbon, carbon dioxide, and carbonates. The abiotic hypothesis is that the full suite of hydrocarbons found in petroleum can either be generated in the mantle by abiogenic processes, or by biological processing of those abiogenic hydrocarbons, and that the source-hydrocarbons of abiogenic origin can migrate out of the mantle into the crust until they escape to the surface or are trapped by impermeable strata, forming petroleum reservoirs.\n\nAbiogenic hypotheses generally reject the supposition that certain molecules found within petroleum, known as biomarkers, are indicative of the biological origin of petroleum. They contend that these molecules mostly come from microbes feeding on petroleum in its upward migration through the crust, that some of them are found in meteorites, which have presumably never contacted living material, and that some can be generated abiogenically by plausible reactions in petroleum.\n\nSome of the evidence used to support abiogenic theories includes: \n, little research is directed towards establishing abiogenic petroleum or methane, although the Carnegie Institution for Science has reported that ethane and heavier hydrocarbons can be synthesized under conditions of the upper mantle. Research mostly related to astrobiology and the deep microbial biosphere and serpentinite reactions, however, continue to provide insight into the contribution of abiogenic hydrocarbons into petroleum accumulations.\n\nSimilarly, research into the deep microbial hypothesis of hydrocarbon generation is advancing as part of the attempt to investigate the concept of panspermia and astrobiology, specifically using deep microbial life as an analog for life on Mars. Research applicable to deep microbial petroleum theories includes\n\nThomas Gold's work was focused on hydrocarbon deposits of primordial origin. Meteorites are believed to represent the major composition of material from which the Earth was formed. Some meteorites, such as carbonaceous chondrites, contain carbonaceous material. If a large amount of this material is still within the Earth, it could have been leaking upward for billions of years. The thermodynamic conditions within the mantle would allow many hydrocarbon molecules to be at equilibrium under high pressure and high temperature. Although molecules in these conditions may disassociate, resulting fragments would be reformed due to the pressure. An average equilibrium of various molecules would exist depending upon conditions and the carbon-hydrogen ratio of the material.\n\nRussian researchers concluded that hydrocarbon mixes would be created within the mantle. Experiments under high temperatures and pressures produced many hydrocarbons—including n-alkanes through CH—from iron oxide, calcium carbonate, and water. Because such materials are in the mantle and in subducted crust, there is no requirement that all hydrocarbons be produced from primordial deposits.\n\nHydrogen gas and water have been found more than deep in the upper crust in the Siljan Ring boreholes and the Kola Superdeep Borehole. Data from the western United States suggests that aquifers from near the surface may extend to depths of to . Hydrogen gas can be created by water reacting with silicates, quartz, and feldspar at temperatures in the range of to . These minerals are common in crustal rocks such as granite. Hydrogen may react with dissolved carbon compounds in water to form methane and higher carbon compounds.\n\nOne reaction not involving silicates which can create hydrogen is:\n\nThe above reaction operates best at low pressures. At pressures greater than almost no hydrogen is created.\n\nThomas Gold reported that hydrocarbons were found in the Siljan Ring borehole and in general increased with depth, although the venture was not a commercial success.\n\nHowever, several geologists analysed the results and said that no hydrocarbon was found.\n\nIn 1967, the Ukrainian scientist Emmanuil B. Chekaliuk proposed that petroleum could be formed at high temperatures and pressures from inorganic carbon in the form of carbon dioxide, hydrogen and/or methane.\n\nThis mechanism is supported by several lines of evidence which are accepted by modern scientific literature. This involves synthesis of oil within the crust via catalysis by chemically reductive rocks. A proposed mechanism for the formation of inorganic hydrocarbons is via natural analogs of the Fischer-Tropsch process known as the \"serpentinite mechanism\" or the serpentinite process.\n\nSerpentinites are ideal rocks to host this process as they are formed from peridotites and dunites, rocks which contain greater than 80% olivine and usually a percentage of Fe-Ti spinel minerals. Most olivines also contain high nickel concentrations (up to several percent) and may also contain chromite or chromium as a contaminant in olivine, providing the needed transition metals.\n\nHowever, serpentinite synthesis and spinel cracking reactions require hydrothermal alteration of pristine peridotite-dunite, which is a finite process intrinsically related to metamorphism, and further, requires significant addition of water. Serpentinite is unstable at mantle temperatures and is readily dehydrated to granulite, amphibolite, talc–schist and even eclogite. This suggests that methanogenesis in the presence of serpentinites is restricted in space and time to mid-ocean ridges and upper levels of subduction zones. However, water has been found as deep as , so water-based reactions are dependent upon the local conditions. Oil being created by this process in intracratonic regions is limited by the materials and temperature.\n\nA chemical basis for the abiotic petroleum process is the serpentinization of peridotite, beginning with methanogenesis via hydrolysis of olivine into serpentine in the presence of carbon dioxide. Olivine, composed of Forsterite and Fayalite metamorphoses into serpentine, magnetite and silica by the following reactions, with silica from fayalite decomposition (reaction 1a) feeding into the forsterite reaction (1b).\n\nReaction 1a:<br>\n\"Fayalite + water → magnetite + aqueous silica + hydrogen\"\n\nReaction 1b:<br>\n\"Forsterite + aqueous silica → serpentinite\"\n\nWhen this reaction occurs in the presence of dissolved carbon dioxide (carbonic acid) at temperatures above Reaction 2a takes place.\n\nReaction 2a:<br>\n\"Olivine + water + carbonic acid → serpentine + magnetite + methane \"\nor, in balanced form: formula_6 → formula_7\n\nHowever, reaction 2(b) is just as likely, and supported by the presence of abundant talc-carbonate schists and magnesite stringer veins in many serpentinised peridotites;\n\nReaction 2b:<br>\n\"Olivine + water + carbonic acid → serpentine + magnetite + magnesite + silica \"\nThe upgrading of methane to higher n-alkane hydrocarbons is via dehydrogenation of methane in the presence of catalyst transition metals (e.g. Fe, Ni). This can be termed spinel hydrolysis.\n\nMagnetite, chromite and ilmenite are Fe-spinel group minerals found in many rocks but rarely as a major component in non-ultramafic rocks. In these rocks, high concentrations of magmatic magnetite, chromite and ilmenite provide a reduced matrix which may allow abiotic cracking of methane to higher hydrocarbons during hydrothermal events.\n\nChemically reduced rocks are required to drive this reaction and high temperatures are required to allow methane to be polymerized to ethane. Note that reaction 1a, above, also creates magnetite.\n\nReaction 3:<br>\n\"Methane + magnetite → ethane + hematite \"<br>\nReaction 3 results in n-alkane hydrocarbons, including linear saturated hydrocarbons, alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, aromatics, and cyclic compounds.\n\nCalcium carbonate may decompose at around through the following reaction:\n\nReaction 5:<br>\n\"Hydrogen + calcium carbonate → methane + calcium oxide + water \"<br>\n\nNote that CaO (lime) is not a mineral species found within natural rocks. Whilst this reaction is possible, it is not plausible.\n\n\nThe \"deep biotic petroleum hypothesis\", similar to the abiogenic petroleum origin hypothesis, holds that not all petroleum deposits within the Earth's rocks can be explained purely according to the orthodox view of petroleum geology. Thomas Gold used the term \"the deep hot biosphere\" to describe the microbes which live underground.\n\nThis hypothesis is different from biogenic oil in that the role of deep-dwelling microbes is a biological source for oil which is not of a sedimentary origin and is not sourced from surface carbon. Deep microbial life is only a contaminant of primordial hydrocarbons. Parts of microbes yield molecules as biomarkers.\n\nDeep biotic oil is considered to be formed as a byproduct of the life cycle of deep microbes.\nShallow biotic oil is considered to be formed as a byproduct of the life cycles of shallow microbes.\n\nThomas Gold, in a 1999 book, cited the discovery of thermophile bacteria in the Earth's crust as new support for the postulate that these bacteria could explain the existence of certain biomarkers in extracted petroleum. A rebuttal of biogenic origins based on biomarkers has been offered by Kenney, et al. (2001).\n\nMethane is ubiquitous in crustal fluid and gas. Research continues to attempt to characterise crustal sources of methane as biogenic or abiogenic using carbon isotope fractionation of observed gases (Lollar & Sherwood 2006). There are few clear examples of abiogenic methane-ethane-butane, as the same processes favor enrichment of light isotopes in all chemical reactions, whether organic or inorganic. δC of methane overlaps that of inorganic carbonate and graphite in the crust, which are heavily depleted in C, and attain this by isotopic fractionation during metamorphic reactions.\n\nOne argument for abiogenic oil cites the high carbon depletion of methane as stemming from the observed carbon isotope depletion with depth in the crust. However, diamonds, which are definitively of mantle origin, are not as depleted as methane, which implies that methane carbon isotope fractionation is not controlled by mantle values.\n\nCommercially extractable concentrations of helium (greater than 0.3%) are present in natural gas from the Panhandle-Hugoton fields in the USA, as well as from some Algerian and Russian gas fields.\n\nHelium trapped within most petroleum occurrences, such as the occurrence in Texas, is of a distinctly crustal character with an \"Ra\" ratio of less than 0.0001 that of the atmosphere.\n\nThe Chimaera gas seep, near Antalya (SW Turkey), new and thorough molecular and isotopic analyses including methane (~87% v/v; D13C1 from -7.9 to -12.3 ‰; D13D1 from -119 to -124 ‰), light alkanes (C2+C3+C4+C5 = 0.5%; C6+: 0.07%; D13C2 from -24.2 to -26.5 ‰; D13C3 from -25.5 to -27 ‰), hydrogen (7.5 to 11%), carbon dioxide (0.01-0.07%; D13CCO2: -15 ‰), helium (~80 ppmv; R/Ra: 0.41) and nitrogen (2-4.9%; D15N from -2 to -2.8 ‰) converge to indicate that the seep releases a mixture of organic thermogenic gas, related to mature Type III kerogen occurring in Paleozoic and Mesozoic organic rich sedimentary rocks, and abiogenic gas produced by low temperature serpentinization in the Tekirova ophiolitic unit.\n\nCertain chemicals found in naturally occurring petroleum contain chemical and structural similarities to compounds found within many living organisms. These include terpenoids, terpenes, pristane, phytane, cholestane, chlorins and porphyrins, which are large, chelating molecules in the same family as heme and chlorophyll. Materials which suggest certain biological processes include \n\nThe presence of these chemicals in crude oil is a result of the inclusion of biological material in the oil; these chemicals are released by kerogen during the production of hydrocarbon oils, as these are chemicals highly resistant to degradation and plausible chemical paths have been studied. Abiotic defenders state that biomarkers get into oil during its way up as it gets in touch with ancient fossils. However a more plausible explanation is that biomarkers are traces of biological molecules from bacteria (archaea) that feed on primordial hydrocarbons and die in that environment. For example, hopanoids are just parts of the bacterial cell wall present in oil as contaminant.\n\nNickel (Ni), vanadium (V), lead (Pb), arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), mercury (Hg) and others metals frequently occur in oils. Some heavy crude oils, such as Venezuelan heavy crude have up to 45% vanadium pentoxide content in their ash, high enough that it is a commercial source for vanadium. Abiotic supporters argue that these metals are common in Earth's mantle, but relatively high contents of nickel, vanadium, lead and arsenic can be usually found in almost all marine sediments.\n\nAnalysis of 22 trace elements in oils correlate significantly better with chondrite, serpentinized fertile mantle peridotite, and the primitive mantle than with oceanic or continental crust, and shows no correlation with seawater.\n\nSir Robert Robinson studied the chemical makeup of natural petroleum oils in great detail, and concluded that they were mostly far too hydrogen-rich to be a likely product of the decay of plant debris, assuming a dual origin for Earth hydrocarbons. However, several processes which generate hydrogen could supply kerogen hydrogenation which is compatible with the conventional explanation.\n\nOlefins, the unsaturated hydrocarbons, would have been expected to predominate by far in any material that was derived in that way. He also wrote: \"Petroleum ... [seems to be] a primordial hydrocarbon mixture into which bio-products have been added.\"\n\nThis has however been demonstrated later to be a misunderstanding by Robinson, related to the fact that only short duration experiments were available to him. Olefins are thermally very unstable (that is why natural petroleum normally does not contain such compounds) and in laboratory experiments that last more than a few hours, the olefins are no longer present.\n\nThe presence of low-oxygen and hydroxyl-poor hydrocarbons in natural living media is supported by the presence of natural waxes (n=30+), oils (n=20+) and lipids in both plant matter and animal matter, for instance fats in phytoplankton, zooplankton and so on. These oils and waxes, however, occur in quantities too small to significantly affect the overall hydrogen/carbon ratio of biological materials.\nHowever, after the discovery of highly aliphatic biopolymers in algae, and that oil generating kerogen essentially represent concentrates of such materials, no theoretical problem exists anymore. Also, the millions of source rock samples that have been analyzed for petroleum yield by the petroleum industry have confirmed the large quantities of petroleum found in sedimentary basins.\n\nOccurrences of abiotic petroleum in commercial amounts in the oil wells in offshore Vietnam are sometimes cited, as well as in the Eugene Island block 330 oil field, and the Dnieper-Donets Basin. However, the origins of all these wells can also be explained with the biotic theory. Modern geologists think that commercially profitable deposits of abiotic petroleum \"could\" be found, but no current deposit has convincing evidence that it originated from abiotic sources.\n\nThe Soviet school saw evidence of their hypothesis in the fact that some oil reservoirs exist in non-sedimentary rocks such as granite, metamorphic or porous volcanic rocks. However, opponents noted that non-sedimentary rocks served as reservoirs for biologically originated oil expelled from nearby sedimentary source rock through common migration or re-migration mechanisms.\n\nThe following observations have been commonly used to argue for the abiogenic hypothesis, however each observation of actual petroleum can also be fully explained by biotic origin:\n\nThe Lost City hydrothermal field was determined to have abiogenic hydrocarbon production. Proskurowski et al. wrote, \"Radiocarbon evidence rules out seawater bicarbonate as the carbon source for FTT reactions, suggesting that a mantle-derived inorganic carbon source is leached from the host rocks. Our findings illustrate that the abiotic synthesis of hydrocarbons in nature may occur in the presence of ultramafic rocks, water, and moderate amounts of heat.\"\n\nThe Siljan Ring meteorite crater, Sweden, was proposed by Thomas Gold as the most likely place to test the hypothesis because it was one of the few places in the world where the granite basement was cracked sufficiently (by meteorite impact) to allow oil to seep up from the mantle; furthermore it is infilled with a relatively thin veneer of sediment, which was sufficient to trap any abiogenic oil, but was modelled as not having been subjected to the heat and pressure conditions (known as the \"oil window\") normally required to create biogenic oil. However, some geochemists concluded by geochemical analysis that the oil in the seeps came from the organic-rich Ordovician Tretaspis shale, where it was heated by the meteorite impact.\n\nIn 1986–1990 The Gravberg-1 borehole was drilled through the deepest rock in the Siljan Ring in which proponents had hoped to find hydrocarbon reservoirs. It stopped at the depth of due to drilling problems, after private investors spent $40 million. Some eighty barrels of magnetite paste and hydrocarbon-bearing sludge were recovered from the well; Gold maintained that the hydrocarbons were chemically different from, and not derived from, those added to the borehole, but analyses showed that the hydrocarbons were derived from the diesel fuel-based drilling fluid used in the drilling. This well also sampled over of methane-bearing inclusions.\n\nIn 1991–1992, a second borehole, Stenberg-1, was drilled a few miles away to a depth of , finding similar results. Again, no abiotic hydrocarbons were found.\n\nDirect observation of bacterial mats and fracture-fill carbonate and humin of bacterial origin in deep boreholes in Australia are also taken as evidence for the abiogenic origin of petroleum.\n\nPanhandle-Hugoton field (Anadarko Basin) in the south-central United States is the most important gas field with commercial helium content. Some abiogenic proponents interpret this as evidence that both the helium and the natural gas came from the mantle.\n\nThe Bạch Hổ oil field in Vietnam has been proposed as an example of abiogenic oil because it is 4,000 m of fractured basement granite, at a depth of 5,000 m. However, others argue that it contains biogenic oil which leaked into the basement horst from conventional source rocks within the Cuu Long basin. \n\nA major component of mantle-derived carbon is indicated in commercial gas reservoirs in the Pannonian and Vienna basins of Hungary and Austria.\n\nNatural gas pools interpreted as being mantle-derived are the Shengli Field and Songliao Basin, northeastern China.\n\nThe Chimaera gas seep, near Çıralı, Antalya (southwest Turkey), has been continuously active for millennia and it is known to be the source of the first Olympic fire in the Hellenistic period. On the basis of chemical composition and isotopic analysis, the Chimaera gas is said to be about half biogenic and half abiogenic gas, the largest emission of biogenic methane discovered; deep and pressurized gas accumulations necessary to sustain the gas flow for millennia, posited to be from an inorganic source, may be present. Local geology of Chimaera flames, at exact position of flames, reveals contact between serpentinized ophiolite and carbonate rocks.\nFischer-Tropsch process can be suitable reaction to form hydrocarbon gases.\n\nGiven the known occurrence of methane and the probable catalysis of methane into higher atomic weight hydrocarbon molecules, various abiogenic theories consider the following to be key observations in support of abiogenic hypotheses:\n\nThe proponents of abiogenic oil also use several arguments which draw on a variety of natural phenomena in order to support the hypothesis:\n\n\nArguments against chemical reactions, such as the serpentinite mechanism, being a source of hydrocarbon deposits within the crust include:\n\nThe presence of methane on Saturn's moon Titan and in the atmospheres of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune is cited as evidence of the formation of hydrocarbons without biological intermediate forms, for example by Thomas Gold. (Terrestrial natural gas is composed primarily of methane). Some comets contain massive amounts of organic compounds, the equivalent of cubic kilometers of such mixed with other material; for instance, corresponding hydrocarbons were detected during a probe flyby through the tail of Comet Halley in 1986.\nDrill samples from the surface of Mars taken in 2015 by the \"Curiosity Rover's\" Mars Science Laboratory have found organic molecules of benzene and propane in 3 billion year old rock samples in Gale Crater.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42582237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42582237", "title": "Abusive supervision", "text": "Abusive supervision\n\nAbusive supervision is most commonly studied in the context of the workplace, although can arise in other areas such as in the household and at school. \"Abusive supervision has been investigated as an antecedent to negative subordinate workplace outcome.\" \"Workplace violence has combination of situational and personal factors\". The study that was conducted looked at the link between abusive supervision and different workplace events.\n\nAbusive supervision overlaps with workplace bullying in the workplace context. Research suggests that 75% of workplace bullying incidents are perpetrated by hierarchically superior agents. Abusive supervision differs from related constructs such as supervisor bullying and undermining in that it does not describe the intentions or objectives of the supervisor.\n\nWorkplace deviance is closely related to abusive supervision. Abusive supervision is defined as the \"subordinates' perceptions of the extent to which their supervisors engage in the sustained display of hostile verbal and nonverbal behaviors\". This could be when supervisors ridicule their employees, give them the silent treatment, remind them of past failures, fail to give proper credit, wrongfully assign blame or blow up in fits of temper. It may seem like employees who are abused by their supervisor will either directly retaliate or withdraw by quitting the job but in reality many strike out against their employer by engaging in organizational deviant behaviors. Since employees control many of the organization's resources, they often use, or abuse anything they can. This abuse of resources may come in the form of time, office supplies, raw materials, finished products or the services that they provide. This usually occurs in two steps. First step is that commitment is destroyed and employees stop caring about the welfare of the employer. The second step is that the abused employee will get approval (normally implied) of their coworkers to commit deviant acts.\n\nWorkplace experiences may fuel the worker to act out. Research has been conducted demonstrating that the perception of not being respected is one of the main causes for workplace deviance; workplace dissatisfaction is also a factor. According to Bolin and Heatherly, \"dissatisfaction results in a higher incidence of minor offenses, but does not necessarily lead to severe offense\". An employee who is less satisfied with his or her work may become less productive as their needs are not met. In the workplace, \"frustration, injustices and threats to self are primary antecedents to employee deviance\". Although workplace deviance does occur, the behavior is not universal. There are two preventive measures that business owners can use to protect themselves. The first is strengthening the employee's commitment by reacting strongly to abusive supervision so that the employee knows that the behavior is not accepted. Holding the employee at high esteem by reminding them of their importance, or setting up programs that communicate concern for the employee may also strengthen employee commitment. Providing a positive ethical climate can also help. Employers can do this by having a clear code of conduct that is applied to both managers and employees alike.\n\nSocial undermining can arise from abusive supervision, such as when a supervisor uses negative actions and it leads to \"flow downhill\"; a supervisor is perceived as abusive.\n\nResearch has shown that \"abusive supervision is a subjective assessment made by subordinates regarding their supervisors\" behavior towards them over a period of time. For example, abusive supervision includes a \"boss demeaning, belittling, or invading privacy of the subordinate.\n\nHostile attribution bias is an extra punitive mentality where individuals tend to project blame on others. Researchers wanted to see how hostile attribution bias can moderate the relationship between perceptions of psychological contract violation and subordinates’ perceptions of abusive supervision. Undermining does arise with abusive supervision, which affects families and aggression; they believe that there is a stronger positive relationship between experiences of psychological contract violation and subordinates’ reports of abuse. It suggests that when someone has a negative work environment, it will affect their emotional training ground where this would result in negative home encounters. The findings from this study show that abused subordinates' family members reported a higher incidence of undermining in their home. When this occurs, complications arise at both home and work. Workplace abuse may be spawning negative interpersonal relations in the home, which may contribution to a downward spiral of relationships in both spheres.\n\nWhen a subordinate is being abused, it can lead to negative affect towards their family where the subordinate starts undermining their family members. The undermining can arise from displaced aggression which is \"redirection of a [person’s] harm doing behavior from a primary to a secondary target\" (Tedeschi & Norman, 1985, p. 30). Family undermining arises from a negative work environment: when someone above you puts you down, one starts to think that one should be put down by one's family members.\n\nIn research, the presence of \"Machiavellianism\" was positively associated with subordinate perceptions of abusive supervision.\n\n"}
{"id": "48303298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48303298", "title": "Access to information", "text": "Access to information\n\nAccess to information is the ability for an individual to seek, receive and impart information effectively. This sometimes includes \"scientific, indigenous, and traditional knowledge; freedom of information, building of open knowledge resources, including open Internet and open standards, and open access and availability of data; preservation of digital heritage; respect for cultural and linguistic diversity, such as fostering access to local content in accessible languages; quality education for all, including lifelong and e-learning; diffusion of new media and information literacy and skills, and social inclusion online, including addressing inequalities based on skills, education, gender, age, race, ethnicity, and accessibility by those with disabilities; and the development of connectivity and affordable ICTs, including mobile, the Internet, and broadband infrastructures\".\n\nMichael Buckland defines six types of barriers that have to be overcome in order for access to information to be achieved: identification of the source, availability of the source, price of the user, cost to the provider, cognitive access, acceptability. While “access to information”, “right to information”, “right to know” and “freedom of information” are sometimes used as synonyms, the diverse terminology does highlight particular (albeit related) dimensions of the issue.\n\nThere has been a signiﬁcant increase in access to the Internet, which reached just over three billion users in 2014, amounting to about 42 per cent of the world’s population. But the digital divide continues to exclude over half of the world’s population, particularly women and girls, and especially in Africa and the least developed countries as well as several Small Island Developing States. Further, individuals with disabilities can either be advantaged or further disadvantaged by the design of technologies or through the presence or absence of training and education.\n\nAccess to information faces great difficulties because of the global digital divide. A digital divide is an economic and social inequality with regard to access to, use of, or impact of information and communication technologies (ICT). The divide within countries (such as the digital divide in the United States) may refer to inequalities between individuals, households, businesses, or geographic areas, usually at different socioeconomic levels or other demographic categories. The divide between differing countries or regions of the world is referred to as the global digital divide, examining this technological gap between developing and developed countries on an international scale.\n\nWomen's freedom of information and access to information is far from being equal to men's. It's the access to information gender divide. Social barriers such as illiteracy and lack of digital empowerment have created stark inequalities in navigating the tools used for access to information, often exacerbating lack of awareness of issues that directly relate to women and gender, such as sexual health. There have also been examples of more extreme measures, such as local community authorities banning or restricting mobile phone use for girls and unmarried women in their communities. A number of States, including some that have introduced new laws since 2010, notably censor voices from and content related to the LGBTQI community, posing serious consequences to access to information about sexual orientation and gender identity. Digital platforms play a powerful role in limiting access to certain content, such as YouTube’s 2017 decision to classify non-explicit videos with LGBTQ themes as ‘restricted’, a classification designed to filter out ‘potentially inappropriate content’.\n\nWith the evolution of the digital age, application of freedom of speech and its corollaries (freedom of information, access to information) becomes more controversial as new means of communication and restrictions arise including government control or commercial methods putting personal information to danger.\n\nAccording to Kuzmin and Parshakova, access to information entails learning in formal and informal education settings. It also entails fostering the competencies of Media and Information Literacy (MIL) that enable users to be empowered and make full use of access to the Internet.\n\nThe UNESCO's support for journalism education is an example of how UNESCO seeks to contribute to the provision of independent and veriﬁable information accessible in cyberspace. Promoting access for disabled persons has been strengthened by the UNESCO-convened conference in 2014, which adopted the “New Delhi Declaration on Inclusive ICTs for Persons with Disabilities: Making Empowerment a Reality”.\n\nAccording to the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), \"\"Open Standards\" are standards made available to the general public and developed (or approved) and maintained via a collaborative and consensus driven process. \"Open Standards\" facilitate interoperability and data exchange among different products or services and are intended for widespread adoption.\" A UNESCO study considers that adopting open standards has the potential to contribute to the vision of a ‘digital commons’ in which citizens can freely ﬁnd, share, and re-use information. Promoting open source software, which is both free of cost and freely modiﬁable could help meet the particular needs of marginalized users advocacy on behalf of minority groups, such as targeted outreach, better provision of Internet access, tax incentives for private companies and organizations working to enhance access, and solving underlying issues of social and economic inequalities\n\nThe increasing access to and reliance on digital media to receive and produce information have increased the possibilities for States and private sector companies to track individuals’ behaviors, opinions and networks. States have increasingly adopted laws and policies to legalize monitoring of communication, justifying these practices with the need to defend their own citizens and national interests. In parts of Europe, new anti-terrorism laws have enabled a greater degree of government surveillance and an increase in the ability of intelligence authorities to access citizens’ data. While legality is a precondition for legitimate limitations of human rights, the issue is also whether a given law is aligned to other criteria for justification such as necessity, proportionality and legitimate purpose.\n\nThe United Nations Human Rights Council has taken a number of steps to highlight the importance of the universal right to privacy online. In 2015, in a resolution on the right to privacy in the digital age, it established a United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Right to Privacy. In 2017, the Human Rights Council emphasized that the ‘unlawful or arbitrary surveillance and/ or interception of communications, as well as the unlawful or arbitrary collection of personal data, as highly intrusive acts, violate the right to privacy, can interfere with other human rights, including the right to freedom of expression and to hold opinions without interference’.\n\nNumber of regional efforts, particularly through the courts, to establish regulations that deal with data protection, privacy and surveillance, and which affect their relationship to journalistic uses. The Council of Europe’s Convention 108, the Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, has undergone a modernization process to address new challenges to privacy. Since 2012, four new countries belonging to the Council of Europe have signed or ratified the Convention, as well as three countries that do not belong to the Council, from Africa and Latin America.\n\nRegional courts are also playing a noteworthy role in the development of online privacy regulations. In 2015 the European Court of Justice found that the so-called ‘Safe Harbour Agreement’, which allowed private companies to ‘legally transmit personal data from their European subscribers to the US’, was not valid under European law in that it did not offer sufficient protections for the data of European citizens or protect them from arbitrary surveillance. In 2016, the European Commission and United States Government reached an agreement to replace Safe Harbour, the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield, which includes data protection obligations on companies receiving personal data from the European Union, safeguards on United States government access to data, protection and redress for individuals, and an annual joint review to monitor implementation.\n\nThe European Court of Justice’s 2014 decision in the Google Spain case allowed people to claim a ‘right to be forgotten’ or ‘right to be de-listed’ in a much-debated approach to the balance between privacy, free expression and transparency. Following the Google Spain decision the ‘right to be forgotten’ or ‘right to be de-listed’ has been recognized in a number of countries across the world, particularly in Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\nRecital 153 of the European Union General Data Protection Regulation states \"Member States law should reconcile the rules governing freedom of expression and information, including journalistic…with the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to this Regulation. The processing of personal data solely for journalistic purposes…should be subject to derogations or exemptions from certain provisions of this Regulation if necessary to reconcile the right to the protection of personal data with the right to freedom of expression and information, as enshrined in Article 11 of the Charter.\"\n\nThe number of countries around the world with data protection laws has also continued to grow. According to the World Trends Report 2017/2018, between 2012 and 2016, 20 UNESCO Member States adopted data protection laws for first time, bringing the global total to 101. Of these new adoptions, nine were in Africa, four in Asia and the Pacific, three in Latin America and the Caribbean, two in the Arab region and one in Western Europe and North America. During the same period, 23 countries revised their data protection laws, reflecting the new challenges to data protection in the digital era.\n\nAccording to Global Partners Digital, only four States have secured in national legislation a general right to encryption, and 31 have enacted national legislation that grants law enforcement agencies the power to intercept or decrypt encrypted communications.\n\nSince 2010, to increase the protection of the information and communications of their users and to promote trust in their services’. High profile examples of this have been WhatsApp’s implementation of full end-to-end encryption in its messenger service, and Apple’s contestation of a law enforcement request to unlock an iPhone used by the perpetrators of a terror attack.\n\nRapid changes in the digital environment, coupled with contemporary journalist practice that increasingly relies on digital communication technologies, pose new risks for the protection of journalism sources. Leading contemporary threats include mass surveillance technologies, mandatory data retention policies, and disclosure of personal digital activities by third party intermediaries. Without a thorough understanding of how to shield their digital communications and traces, journalists and sources can unwittingly reveal identifying information. Employment of national security legislation, such as counter-terrorism laws, to override existing legal protections for source protection is also becoming a common practice. In many regions, persistent secrecy laws or new cybersecurity laws threaten the protection of sources, such as when they give governments the right to intercept online communications in the interest of overly broad definitions of national security.\n\nDevelopments in regards to source protection laws have occurred between 2007 and mid-2015 in 84 (69 per cent) of the 121 countries surveyed. The Arab region had the most notable developments, where 86 per cent of States had demonstrated shifts, followed by Latin America and the Caribbean (85 per cent), Asia and the Pacific (75 per cent), Western Europe and North America (66 per cent) and finally Africa, where 56 per cent of States examined had revised their source protection laws.\n\nAs of 2015, at least 60 States had adopted some form of whistle-blower protection. At the international level, the United Nations Convention against Corruption entered into force in 2005. By July 2017, the majority of countries around the globe, 179 in total, had ratified the Convention, which includes provisions for the protection of whistleblowers.\n\nRegional conventions against corruption that contain protection for whistle-blowers have also been widely ratified. These include the Inter-American Convention against Corruption, which has been ratified by 33 Member States, and the African Union Convention on Preventing and Combating Corruption, which was ratified by 36 UNESCO Member States.\n\nIn 2009, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Council adopted the Recommendation for Further Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions.\nAccording to the World Trends Report, access to a variety of media increased between 2012 and 2016. The internet has registered the highest growth in users supported by massive investments in infrastructure and significant uptake in mobile usage.\n\nThe United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the work of the Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development, co-chaired by UNESCO, and the Internet Governance Forum’s intersessional work on ‘Connecting the Next Billion' are proof of the international commitments towards providing Internet access for all. According to the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), by the end of 2017, an estimated 48 per cent of individuals regularly connect to the internet, up from 34 per cent in 2012. Despite the significant increase in absolute numbers, however, in the same period the annual growth rate of internet users has slowed down, with five per cent annual growth in 2017, dropping from a 10 per cent growth rate in 2012.\n\nThe number of unique mobile cellular subscriptions increased from 3.89 billion in 2012 to 4.83 billion in 2016, two-thirds of the world’s population, with more than half of subscriptions located in Asia and the Pacific. The number of subscriptions is predicted to rise to 5.69 billion users in 2020. As of 2016, almost 60 per cent of the world’s population had access to a 4G broadband cellular network, up from almost 50 per cent in 2015 and 11 per cent in 2012.\n\nThe limits that users face on accessing information via mobile applications coincide with a broader process of fragmentation of the internet. Zero-rating, the practice of internet providers allowing users free connectivity to access specific content or applications for free, has offered some opportunities for individuals to surmount economic hurdles, but has also been accused by its critics as creating a ‘two-tiered’ internet. To address the issues with zero-rating, an alternative model has emerged in the concept of ‘equal rating’ and is being tested in experiments by Mozilla and Orange in Africa. Equal rating prevents prioritization of one type of content and zero-rates all content up to a specified data cap. Some countries in the region had a handful of plans to choose from (across all mobile network operators) while others, such as Colombia, offered as many as 30 pre-paid and 34 post-paid plans.\nIn Western Europe and North America, the primacy of television as a main source of information is being challenged by the internet, while in other regions, such as Africa, television is gaining greater audience share than radio, which has historically been the most widely accessed media platform. Age plays a profound role in determining the balance between radio, television and the internet as the leading source of news. According to the 2017 Reuters Institute Digital News Report, in 36 countries and territories surveyed, 51 per cent of adults 55 years and older consider television as their main news source, compared to only 24 per cent of respondents between 18 and 24. The pattern is reversed when it comes to online media, chosen by 64 per cent of users between 18 and 24 as their primary source, but only by 28 per cent of users 55 and older. According to the Arab Youth Survey, in 2016, 45 per cent of the young people interviewed considered social media as a major source of news.\n\nSatellite television has continued to add global or transnational alternatives to national viewing options for many audiences. Global news providers such as the BBC, Al Jazeera, Agence France-Presse, RT (formerly Russia Today) and the Spanish-language Agencia EFE, have used the internet and satellite television to better reach audiences across borders and have added specialist broadcasts to target specific foreign audiences. Reflecting a more outward looking orientation, China Global Television Network (CGTN), the multi-language and multi-channel grouping owned and operated by China Central Television, changed its name from CCTV-NEWS in January 2017. After years of budget cuts and shrinking global operations, in 2016 BBC announced the launch of 12 new language services (in Afaan Oromo, Amharic, Gujarati, Igbo, Korean, Marathi, Pidgin, Punjabi, Telugu, Tigrinya, and Yoruba), branded as a component of its biggest expansion ‘since the 1940s’.\n\nAlso expanding access to content are changes in usage patterns with non-linear viewing, as online streaming is becoming an important component of users’ experience. Since expanding its global service to 130 new countries in January 2016, Netflix experienced a surge in subscribers, surpassing 100 million subscribers in the second quarter of 2017, up from 40 million in 2012. The audience has also become more diverse with 47 per cent of users based outside of the United States, where the company began in 1997.\n\nThe Internet has challenged the press as an alternative source of information and opinion but has also provided a new platform for newspaper organizations to reach new audiences. Between 2012 and 2016, print newspaper circulation continued to fall in almost all regions, with the exception of Asia and the Pacific, where the dramatic increase in sales in a few select countries has offset falls in historically strong Asian markets such as Japan and the Republic of Korea. Between 2012 and 2016, India’s print circulation grew by 89 per cent. As many newspapers make the transition to online platforms, revenues from digital subscriptions and digital advertising have been growing significantly. How to capture more of this growth remains a pressing challenge for newspapers.\n\nThe 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in September 2015, includes Goal 16.10 to ‘ensure public access to information and protect fundamental freedoms, in accordance with national legislation and international agreements’. UNESCO has been assigned as the custodian agency responsible for global reporting on indicator 16.10.2 regarding the ‘number of countries that adopt and implement constitutional, statutory and/or policy guarantees for public access to information’. This responsibility aligns with UNESCO’s commitment to promote universal access to information, grounded in its constitutional mandate to ‘promote the free flow of ideas by word and image’. In 2015, UNESCO’s General Conference proclaimed 28 September as the International Day for Universal Access to Information. The following year, participants of UNESCO’s annual celebration of World Press Freedom Day adopted the Finlandia Declaration on access to information and fundamental freedoms, 250 years after the first freedom of information law was adopted in what is modern day Finland and Sweden.\n\n\nThe International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) is a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) programme aimed at strengthening the development of mass media in developing countries. Its mandate since 2003 is “... to contribute to sustainable development, democracy and good governance by fostering universal access to and distribution of information and knowledge by strengthening the capacities of the developing countries and countries in transition in the field of electronic media and the printed press.\n\nThe International Programme for the Development of Communication is responsible for the follow-up of the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 16 through indicators 16.10.1 and 16.10.2. Every two years, a report containing information from the Member States on the status of judicial inquiries on each of the killings condemned by UNESCO is submitted to the IPDC Council by UNESCO's Director-General. The journalists safety indicators are a tool developed by UNESCO which, according to UNESCO's website, aims on mapping the key features that can help assess safety of journalists, and help determine whether adequate follow-up is given to crimes committed against them. The IPDC Talks also allow the Programme to raise awareness on the importance of access to information. The IPDC is also the programme that monitors and reports on access to information laws around the world through the United Nations Secretary-General global report on follow-up to SDGs.\n\nOn 28 September 2015, UNESCO adopted the International Day for the Universal Access to Information during its 38th session. During the International Day, the IPDC organized the “IPDC Talks: Powering Sustainable Development with Access to Information” event, which gathered high-level participants. The annual event aims on highlighting the “importance of access to information” for sustainable development.\n\nInternet Universality is the concept that \"the Internet is much more than infrastructure and applications, it is a network of economic and social interactions and relationships, which has the potential to enable human rights, empower individuals and communities, and facilitate sustainable development. The concept is based on four principles stressing the Internet should be Human rights-based, Open, Accessible, and based on Multistakeholder participation. These have been abbreviated as the R-O-A-M principles. Understanding the Internet in this way helps to draw together different facets of Internet development, concerned with technology and public policy, rights and development.\"\n\nThrough the concept internet universality UNESCO highlights access to information as a key to assess a better Internet environment. There is special relevance to the Internet of the broader principle of social inclusion. This puts forward the role of accessibility in overcoming digital divides, digital inequalities, and exclusions based on skills, literacy, language, gender or disability. It also points to the need for sustainable business models for Internet activity, and to trust in the preservation, quality, integrity, security, and authenticity of information and knowledge. Accessibility is interlinked to rights and openness. Based on the ROAM principles, UNESCO is now developing Internet Universality indicators to help governments and other stakeholders assess their own national Internet environments and to promote the values associated with Internet Universality, such as access to information.\n\nIn 2010, the World Bank launched the World Bank policy on access to information, which constitutes a major shift in the World Bank's strategy. The principle binds the World Bank to disclose any requested information, unless it is on a \"list of exception\":\n\n\nThe World Bank is prone to Open Developments with its Open data, Open Finance and Open knowledge repository.\n\nThe World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) was a two-phase United Nations-sponsored summit on information, communication and, in broad terms, the information society that took place in 2003 in Geneva and in 2005 in Tunis. One of its chief aims was to bridge the global digital divide separating rich countries from poor countries by spreading access to the Internet in the developing world. The conferences established 17 May as World Information Society Day.\n\nThe results from UNESCO monitoring of SDG 16.10.2 show that 112 countries have now adopted freedom of information legislation or similar administrative regulations. Of these, 22 adopted new legislation since 2012. At the regional level, Africa has seen the highest growth, with 10 countries adopting freedom of information legislation in the last five years, more than doubling the number of countries in the region to have such legislation from nine to 19. A similarly high growth rate has occurred in the Asia-Pacific region, where seven countries adopted freedom of information laws in the last five years, bringing the total to 22. In addition, during the reporting period, two countries in the Arab region, two countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, and one country in Western Europe and North America adopted freedom of information legislation. The vast majority of the world’s population now lives in a country with a freedom of information law, and several countries currently have freedom of information bills under consideration.\n\nWhile there has been an increase in countries with freedom of information laws, their implementation and effectiveness vary considerably across the world. The Global Right to Information Rating is a programme providing advocates, legislators, reformers with tools to assess the strength of a legal framework. In measuring the strength and legal framework of each country’s freedom of information law using the Right to Information Rating, one notable trend appears. Largely regardless of geographic location, top scoring countries tend to have younger laws. According to the United Nations Secretary General’s 2017 report on the Sustainable Development Goals, to which UNESCO contributed freedom of information-related information, of the 109 countries with available data on implementation of freedom of information laws, 43 per cent do not sufficiently provide for public outreach and 43 per cent have overly-wide definitions of exceptions to disclosure, which run counter to the aim of increased transparency and accountability.\n\nDespite the adoption of freedom of information laws; officials are often unfamiliar with the norms of transparency at the core of freedom of information or are unwilling to recognize them in practice. Journalists often do not make effective use of freedom of information laws for a multitude of reasons: official failure to respond to information requests, extensive delays, receipt of heavily redacted documents, arbitrarily steep fees for certain types of requests, and a lack of professional training.\n\nDebates around public access to information have also focused on further developments in encouraging open data approaches to government transparency. In 2009, the data.gov portal was launched in the United States, collecting in one place most of the government open data; in the years following, there was a wave of government data opening around the world. As part of the Open Government Partnership, a multilateral network established in 2011, some 70 countries have now issued National Action Plans, the majority of which contain strong open data commitments designed to foster greater transparency, generate economic growth, empower citizens, fight corruption and more generally enhance governance. In 2015 the Open Data Charter was founded in a multistakeholder process in order to establish principles for ‘how governments should be publishing information’. The Charter has been adopted by 17 national governments half of which were from Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\nThe 2017 Open Data Barometer, conducted by the World Wide Web Foundation, shows that while 79 out of the 115 countries surveyed have open government data portals, in most cases ‘the right policies are not in place, nor is the breadth and quality of the data-sets released sufficient’. In general, the Open Data Barometer found that government data is usually ‘incomplete, out of date, of low quality, and fragmented’.\n\n"}
{"id": "1831837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1831837", "title": "Axis mundi", "text": "Axis mundi\n\nThe axis mundi (also cosmic axis, world axis, world pillar, center of the world, world tree), in certain beliefs and philosophies, is the world center, or the connection between Heaven and Earth. As the celestial pole and geographic pole, it expresses a point of connection between sky and earth where the four compass directions meet. At this point travel and correspondence is made between higher and lower realms. Communication from lower realms may ascend to higher ones and blessings from higher realms may descend to lower ones and be disseminated to all. The spot functions as the \"omphalos\" (navel), the world's point of beginning.\n\nThe image relates to the center of the earth (perhaps like an umbilical providing nourishment). It may have the form of a natural object (a mountain, a tree, a vine, a stalk, a column of smoke or fire) or a product of human manufacture (a staff, a tower, a ladder, a staircase, a maypole, a cross, a steeple, a rope, a totem pole, a pillar, a spire). Its proximity to heaven may carry implications that are chiefly religious (pagoda, temple mount, minaret, church) or secular (obelisk, lighthouse, rocket, skyscraper). The image appears in religious and secular contexts. The \"axis mundi\" symbol may be found in cultures utilizing shamanic practices or animist belief systems, in major world religions, and in technologically advanced \"urban centers\". In Mircea Eliade's opinion, \"Every Microcosm, every inhabited region, has a Centre; that is to say, a place that is sacred above all.\" The axis mundi is often associated with mandalas.\n\nThe symbol originates in a natural and universal psychological perception: that the spot one occupies stands at \"the center of the world\". This space serves as a microcosm of order because it is known and settled. Outside the boundaries of the microcosm lie foreign realms that, because they are unfamiliar or not ordered, represent chaos, death or night. From the center one may still venture in any of the four cardinal directions, make discoveries, and establish new centers as new realms become known and settled. The name of China, meaning \"Middle Nation\" ( pinyin: \"\"), is often interpreted as an expression of an ancient perception that the Chinese polity (or group of polities) occupied the center of the world, with other lands lying in various directions relative to it.\n\nWithin the central known universe a specific locale-often a mountain or other elevated place, a spot where earth and sky come closest gains status as center of the center, the axis mundi. High mountains are typically regarded as sacred by peoples living near them. Shrines are often erected at the summit or base. Mount Kunlun fills a similar role in China. For the ancient Hebrews Mount Zion expressed the symbol. Sioux beliefs take the Black Hills as the axis mundi. Mount Kailash is holy to Hinduism and several religions in Tibet. The Pitjantjatjara people in central Australia consider Uluru to be central to both their world and culture. In ancient Mesopotamia the cultures of ancient Sumer and Babylon erected artificial mountains, or ziggurats, on the flat river plain. These supported staircases leading to temples at the top. The Hindu temples in India are often situated on high mountains. E.g. Amarnath, Tirupati, Vaishno Devi etc. The pre-Columbian residents of Teotihuacán in Mexico erected huge pyramids featuring staircases leading to heaven. These Amerindian temples were often placed on top of caves or subterranean springs, which were thought to be openings to the underworld. Jacob's Ladder is an axis mundi image, as is the Temple Mount. For Christians the Cross on Mount Calvary expresses the symbol. The Middle Kingdom, China, had a central mountain, Kunlun, known in Taoist literature as \"the mountain at the middle of the world.\" To \"go into the mountains\" meant to dedicate oneself to a spiritual life. Monasteries of all faiths tend, like shrines, to be placed at elevated spots. Wise religious teachers are typically depicted in literature and art as bringing their revelations at world centers: mountains, trees, temples.\n\nBecause the axis mundi is an idea that unites a number of concrete images, no contradiction exists in regarding multiple spots as \"the center of the world\". The symbol can operate in a number of locales at once. Mount Hermon was regarded as the axis mundi in Caananite tradition, from where the sons of God are introduced descending in 1 Enoch (1En6:6). The ancient Armenians had a number of holy sites, the most important of which was Mount Ararat, which was thought to be the home of the gods as well as the center of the Universe. Likewise, the ancient Greeks regarded several sites as places of earth's \"omphalos\" (navel) stone, notably the oracle at Delphi, while still maintaining a belief in a cosmic world tree and in Mount Olympus as the abode of the gods. Judaism has the Temple Mount, Christianity has the Mount of Olives and Calvary, Islam has Ka'aba, said to be the first building on earth, and the Temple Mount (Dome of the Rock). In Hinduism, Mount Kailash is identified with the mythical Mount Meru and regarded as the home of Shiva; in Vajrayana Buddhism, Mount Kailash is recognized as the most sacred place where all the dragon currents converge and is regarded as the gateway to Shambhala. In Shinto, the Ise Shrine is the omphalos. In addition to the Kunlun Mountains, where it is believed the peach tree of immortality is located, the Chinese folk religion recognizes four other specific mountains as pillars of the world.\n\nSacred places constitute world centers (omphalos) with the altar or place of prayer as the axis. Altars, incense sticks, candles and torches form the axis by sending a column of smoke, and prayer, toward heaven. The architecture of sacred places often reflects this role. \"Every temple or palace--and by extension, every sacred city or royal residence--is a Sacred Mountain, thus becoming a Centre.\" The stupa of Hinduism, and later Buddhism, reflects Mount Meru. Cathedrals are laid out in the form of a cross, with the vertical bar representing the union of earth and heaven as the horizontal bars represent union of people to one another, with the altar at the intersection. Pagoda structures in Asian temples take the form of a stairway linking earth and heaven. A steeple in a church or a minaret in a mosque also serve as connections of earth and heaven. Structures such as the maypole, derived from the Saxons' Irminsul, and the totem pole among indigenous peoples of the Americas also represent world axes. The calumet, or sacred pipe, represents a column of smoke (the soul) rising form a world center. A mandala creates a world center within the boundaries of its two-dimensional space analogous to that created in three-dimensional space by a shrine.\n\nPlants often serve as images of the axis mundi. The image of the Cosmic Tree provides an axis symbol that unites three planes: sky (branches), earth (trunk) and underworld (roots). In some Pacific island cultures the banyan tree, of which the Bodhi tree is of the Sacred Fig variety, is the abode of ancestor spirits. In Hindu religion, the banyan tree is considered sacred and is called \"ashwath vriksha\" (\"I am banyan tree among trees\" - \"Bhagavad Gita\"). It represents eternal life because of its seemingly ever-expanding branches. The Bodhi tree is also the name given to the tree under which Gautama Siddhartha, the historical Buddha, sat on the night he attained enlightenment. The Yggdrasil, or World Ash, functions in much the same way in Norse mythology; it is the site where Odin found enlightenment. Other examples include Jievaras in Lithuanian mythology and Thor's Oak in the myths of the pre-Christian Germanic peoples. The Tree of Life and the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil in Genesis present two aspects of the same image. Each is said to stand at the center of the Paradise garden from which four rivers flow to nourish the whole world. Each tree confers a boon. Bamboo, the plant from which Asian calligraphy pens are made, represents knowledge and is regularly found on Asian college campuses. The Christmas tree, which can be traced in its origins back to pre-Christian European beliefs, represents an axis mundi. , such as the Fly Agaric mushroom among the Evenks of Russia. In China, traditional cosmography sometimes depicts the world center marked with the Jian tree (). Two more trees are placed at the East and West, corresponding to the points of sunrise and sunset, as described in the \"Huainanzi\". The Mesoamerican world tree connects the planes of the Underworld and the sky with that of the terrestrial realm.\n\nThe human body can express the symbol of world axis. Some of the more abstract Tree of Life representations, such as the \"sefirot\" in Kabbalism and in the \"chakra\" system recognized by Hinduism and Buddhism, merge with the concept of the human body as a pillar between heaven and earth. Disciplines such as yoga and tai chi begin from the premise of the human body as axis mundi. The Buddha represents a world centre in human form. Large statues of a meditating figure unite the human figure with the symbolism of temple and tower. Astrology in all its forms assumes a connection between human health and affairs and the orientation of these with celestial bodies. World religions regard the body itself as a temple and prayer as a column uniting earth to heaven. The ancient Colossus of Rhodes combined the role of human figure with those of portal and skyscraper. The image of a human being suspended on a tree or a cross locates the figure at the axis where heaven and earth meet. The Renaissance image known as the Vitruvian Man represented a symbolic and mathematical exploration of the human form as world axis.\n\nHomes can represent world centers. The symbolism for their residents is the same as for inhabitants of palaces and other sacred mountains. The hearth participates in the symbolism of the altar and a central garden participates in the symbolism of primordial paradise. In Asian cultures houses were traditionally laid out in the form of a square oriented toward the four compass directions. A traditional Asian home was oriented toward the sky through feng shui, a system of geomancy, just as a palace would be. Traditional Arab houses are also laid out as a square surrounding a central fountain that evokes a primordial garden paradise. Mircea Eliade noted that \"the symbolism of the pillar in [European] peasant houses likewise derives from the 'symbolic field' of the \"axis mundi\". In many archaic dwellings the central pillar does in fact serve as a means of communication with the heavens, with the sky.\" The nomadic peoples of Mongolia and the Americas more often lived in circular structures. The central pole of the tent still operated as an axis but a fixed reference to the four compass points was avoided.\n\nA common shamanic concept, and a universally told story, is that of the healer traversing the axis mundi to bring back knowledge from the other world. It may be seen in the stories from Odin and the World Ash Tree to the Garden of Eden and Jacob's Ladder to Jack and the Beanstalk and Rapunzel. It is the essence of the journey described in \"The Divine Comedy\" by Dante Alighieri. The epic poem relates its hero's descent and ascent through a series of spiral structures that take him from through the core of the earth, from the depths of Hell to celestial Paradise.\nIt is also a central tenet in the Southeastern Ceremonial Complex.\n\nAnyone or anything suspended on the axis between heaven and earth becomes a repository of potential knowledge. A special status accrues to the thing suspended: a serpent, a victim of crucifixion or hanging, a rod, a fruit, mistletoe. Derivations of this idea find form in the Rod of Asclepius, an emblem of the medical profession, and in the caduceus, an emblem of correspondence and commercial professions. The staff in these emblems represents the axis mundi while the serpents act as guardians of, or guides to, knowledge.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAxis mundi symbolism continues to be evoked, even in modern societies, through various art forms and has a deep rooted spiritual inspiration that transcends time.\n\nThe idea has proven consequential in the realm of architecture. Structures that have a spiritual meaning, that inspire and create a connection between the spiritual world and the physical world, that are erected as monuments to commemorate are achievements can be considered to be inspired by the axis mundi. The pyramids that have been erected throughout human history serve as perfect examples of axis mundi. A skyscraper, as the term itself suggests, suggests the connection of earth and sky, as do spire structures of all sorts. Such buildings come to be regarded as \"centers\" of an inhabited area, or even the world, and serve as icons of its ideals. The first skyscraper of modern times, the Eiffel Tower, exemplifies this role. The structure was erected in 1889 in Paris, France, to serve as the centerpiece for the Exposition Universelle, making it a symbolic world center from the planning stages. It has served as an iconic image for the city and the nation ever since. Landmark skyscrapers often take names that clearly identify them as centers. \n\nArtistic representations of the axis mundi are plentiful. Just one example of these is the \"Colonne sans fin\" (\"The Endless Column\", 1938) an abstract sculpture by Romanian Constantin Brâncuși. The column takes the form of a \"sky pillar\" () upholding the heavens even as its rhythmically repeating segments invite climb and suggest the possibility of ascension.\n\nVisual representation of the axis mundi in contemporary art is currently being achieved by photographer Jennifer Westjohn. By the process of mirror symmetry of a single photograph the artist exposes an entirely new image: the 5th point. The viewer is then introduced to a coalescing of nature and the universe which lends new perspective to the original image. This artistic representation of axis mundi opens the mind up to a new visual dimension both energistic and shamanic.\n\nAxis mundi symbolism exists in modern space travel. Each astronaut embarks on a perilous journey into the heavens, per se, and if successful, returns with a boon for dissemination. The Apollo 13 insignia stated it succinctly: \"Ex luna scientia\" (\"From the Moon, knowledge\").\n"}
{"id": "326920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326920", "title": "Biogenesis", "text": "Biogenesis\n\nBiogenesis is the production of new living organisms or organelles. Conceptually, biogenesis is primarily attributed to Louis Pasteur and encompasses the belief that complex living things come only from other living things, by means of reproduction. That is, life does not spontaneously arise from non-living material, which was the position held by spontaneous generation. This is summarized in the phrase \"Omne vivum ex vivo\", Latin for \"all life [is] from life.\" A related statement is \"Omnis cellula e cellula\", \"all cells [are] from cells;\" this conclusion is one of the central statements of cell theory.\n\nThe term biogenesis was coined by Henry Charlton Bastian to mean the generation of a life form from nonliving materials, however, Thomas Henry Huxley chose the term abiogenesis and redefined biogenesis for life arising from preexisting life. The generation of life from non-living material is called abiogenesis, and occurred through stepwise chemical and molecular evolution over millions of years.\n\nThe term \"biogenesis\" may also refer to biochemical processes of production in living organisms (see biosynthesis).\n\nThe Ancient Greeks believed that living things could spontaneously come into being from nonliving matter, and that the goddess Gaia could make life arise spontaneously from stones – a process known as \"Generatio spontanea\". Aristotle disagreed, but he still believed that creatures could arise from dissimilar organisms or from soil. Variations of this concept of spontaneous generation still existed as late as the 17th century, but towards the end of the 17th century, a series of observations and arguments began that eventually discredited such ideas. This advance in scientific understanding was met with much opposition, with personal beliefs and individual prejudices often obscuring the facts.\n\nWilliam Harvey (1578–1657) was an early proponent of all life beginning from an egg, \"omne vivum ex ovo\".\nFrancesco Redi, an Italian physician, proved as early as 1668 that higher forms of life did not originate spontaneously by demonstrating that maggots come from eggs of flies. But proponents of spontaneous generation claimed that this did not apply to microbes and continued to hold that these could arise spontaneously. Attempts to disprove the spontaneous generation of life from non-life continued in the early 19th century with observations and experiments by Franz Schulze and Theodor Schwann.\nIn 1745, John Needham added chicken broth to a flask and boiled it. He then let it cool and waited. Microbes grew, and he proposed it as an example of spontaneous generation. In 1768, Lazzaro Spallanzani repeated Needham's experiment but removed all the air from the flask. No growth occurred. In 1854, Heinrich G. F. Schröder (1810–1885) and Theodor von Dusch, and in 1859, Schröder alone, repeated the Helmholtz filtration experiment and showed that living particles can be removed from air by filtering it through cotton-wool.\n\nIn 1864, Louis Pasteur finally announced the results of his scientific experiments. In a series of experiments similar to those performed earlier by Needham and Spallanzani, Pasteur demonstrated that life does not arise in areas that have not been contaminated by existing life. Pasteur's empirical results were summarized in the phrase \"Omne vivum ex vivo\", Latin for \"all life [is] from life\".\n\nAfter obtaining his results, Pasteur stated: \"La génération spontanée est une chimère\" (\"Spontaneous generation is a dream\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1197421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1197421", "title": "Bipolar coordinates", "text": "Bipolar coordinates\n\nBipolar coordinates are a two-dimensional orthogonal coordinate system. There are two commonly defined types of bipolar coordinates. The first is based on the Apollonian circles. The curves of constant \"σ\" and of \"τ\" are circles that intersect at right angles. The coordinates have two foci \"F\" and \"F\", which are generally taken to be fixed at (−\"a\", 0) and (\"a\", 0), respectively, on the \"x\"-axis of a Cartesian coordinate system. The second system is two-center bipolar coordinates. There is also a third coordinate system that is based on two poles (biangular coordinates). \n\nThe term \"bipolar\" is sometimes used to describe other curves having two singular points (foci), such as ellipses, hyperbolas, and Cassini ovals. However, the term \"bipolar coordinates\" is reserved for the coordinates described here, and never used to describe coordinates associated with those other curves, such as elliptic coordinates.\n\nThe most common definition of bipolar coordinates (\"σ\", \"τ\") is\n\nwhere the \"σ\"-coordinate of a point \"P\" equals the angle \"F\" \"P\" \"F\", and the \"τ\"-coordinate equals the natural logarithm of the ratio of the distances \"d\" and \"d\" to the foci \n\n(Recall that \"F\" and \"F\" are located at (−\"a\", 0) and (\"a\", 0), respectively.) Note that \"σ\" ranges from \"-π/2\" to \"π/2\", and \"τ\" ranges from formula_4 to formula_5. Equivalently\n\nThe curves of constant \"σ\" correspond to non-concentric circles \n\nthat intersect at the two foci. The centers of the constant-\"σ\" circles lie on the \"y\"-axis. Circles of positive \"σ\" are centered above the \"x\"-axis, whereas those of negative \"σ\" lie below the axis. As the magnitude |\"σ\"| increases, the radius of the circles decreases and the center approaches the origin (0, 0), which is reached when |\"σ\"| = \"π\"/2, its maximum value.\n\nThe curves of constant formula_8 are non-intersecting circles of different radii\n\nthat surround the foci but again are not concentric. The centers of the constant-\"τ\" circles lie on the \"x\"-axis. The circles of positive \"τ\" lie in the right-hand side of the plane (\"x\" > 0), whereas the circles of negative \"τ\" lie in the left-hand side of the plane (\"x\" < 0). The \"τ\" = 0 curve corresponds to the \"y\"-axis (\"x\" = 0). As the magnitude of \"τ\" increases, the radius of the circles decreases and their centers approach the foci.\n\nThe passage from the Cartesian coordinates towards the bipolar coordinates can be done via the following formulas:\nand\n\nWe notice also those two remarkable identities: \nand\n\nThe scale factors for the bipolar coordinates (\"σ\", \"τ\") are equal\n\nThus, the infinitesimal area element equals\n\nand the Laplacian is given by \n\nOther differential operators such as formula_17 and formula_18 can be expressed in the coordinates (\"σ\", \"τ\") by substituting the scale factors into the general formulae found in orthogonal coordinates.\n\nThe classic applications of bipolar coordinates are in solving partial differential equations, e.g., Laplace's equation or the Helmholtz equation, for which bipolar coordinates allow a separation of variables. A typical example would be the electric field surrounding two parallel cylindrical conductors with differing diameters.\n\nBipolar coordinates form the basis for several sets of three-dimensional orthogonal coordinates.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "915260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=915260", "title": "Blesbok", "text": "Blesbok\n\nThe blesbok or blesbuck (\"Damaliscus pygargus phillipsi\") is an antelope endemic to South Africa. It has a distinctive white face and forehead which inspired the name, because \"bles\" is the Afrikaans word for a such as one might see on the forehead of a horse.\n\nThe blesbok and the bontebok (\"Damaliscus pygargus dorcas\") are variant subspecies of one another and can readily interbreed, the offspring being known as the bontebles or baster blesbok, the differences between the two subspecies have arisen due to preferences for different habitats in the wild. The blesbok is endemic to southern Africa and is found in large numbers in all national parks with open grasslands, from the Highveld north of the Vaal river southwards through the Free State, to the Eastern Cape. It is a plains species and dislikes wooded areas. It was first discovered in the 17th century, in numbers so numerous, herds reached from horizon to horizon.\n\nPhysically, rams and ewes are remarkably similar. Their mass can be as much as 85 kg. A characteristic of the blesbok is the prominent white blaze on the face and a horizontal brown strip which divides this blaze above the eyes. Body colour is brown with a lighter-coloured saddle on the back, and the rump an even lighter shade. The legs are brown with a white patch behind the top part of the front legs. Lower legs whitish. Both sexes carry horns, ringed almost to the tip. Female horns are slightly more slender. The neck and the top of the back of the blesbok is brown. Lower down on the flanks and buttocks, the coloring becomes darker. The belly, the inside of the buttocks and the area up to the base of the tail is white. Blesbok can be easily differentiated from other antelopes because they have a distinct white face and forehead. The blesbok differs from the bontebok by having less white on the coat and the blaze on the face, which is usually divided, the coat is also a lighter yellow than that of the bontebok. The length of their horns averages at around 38 cm. Male adult blesbok average around 70 kg; females average lower, at around 61 kg.\n\n\nBlesbok can be found in open veld or plains of South Africa and Namibia. Their preferred habitat is open grassland with water. They often occupy relatively small territories of 2.5 to 6.0 acres in size.\nThey were once one of the most abundant antelope species of the African plains, but have become scarce since 1893 due to relentless hunting for their skins and meat.\n\nThe blesbok is a seasonal breeder, with rutting from March to May. Births peak during November and December after a gestation period of about 240 days (8 months). Females give birth to a single calf per breeding season.\n\nThe blesbok was hunted nearly to extinction because of its large numbers, but having been protected since the late 19th century, it has proliferated and today it is sufficiently numerous not to be classed as endangered. In modern times, this is largely because of the commercial value of the blesbok to private land owners, and also because it is one of the few medium-sized antelope that can be contained by normal stock fencing. At the start of the 21st century, blesbok numbers are stable, estimated to be around 240,000. However, 97% of them live outside reserves, and only 3% in national parks. They also are common in zoos, though in far smaller numbers.\n\nHumans, lions, leopards, African wild dogs, spotted hyenas, and cheetahs are the blesbok's main predators, while jackals and eagles may attack the calves. The blesbok is both farmed and hunted for the skin, meat, and trophy. Blesbok are shy and alert; they rely on speed and endurance to escape predators, but have an tendency to return to place where they were attacked after a few minutes. They can maintain a speed of when chased, but, like other white-fronted damalisques, blesbok are not good jumpers or crawlers.\n\nFossil remains of a prehistoric relative, \"Damaliscus niro\", were found in deposits in Sterkfontein. With a weight of approximately 120 kg, it was heavier than the modern blesbok and it had slightly different horns. \"D. niro\" became extinct at the end of the Pleistocene 12 thousand years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "2881125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2881125", "title": "Chronosophy", "text": "Chronosophy\n\nChronosophy is the neologistic designation given by scholar Julius Thomas (J.T.) Fraser to \"the interdisciplinary and normative study of time \"sui generis\".\"\n\nFraser derived the term from the Ancient Greek: χρόνος, \"chronos\", \"time\" and σοφία, \"sophia\", \"wisdom\". \"Chronosophia\" is thus defined as the \"specific human skill or knowledge . . . pertaining to time . . . [which] all men seem to possess to some degree . . .\".\n\nFraser outlined the purpose of the discipline of chronosophy in five intentions, as follows:\n\nAccording to Fraser, any pursuit of chronosophical knowledge necessarily makes two assumptions:\nFraser labeled these two assumptions the \"unity of time\". Together they amount to the proposition that all of us, working separately, are nevertheless headed toward the same central idea (i.e., \"chronosophia\").\n\nIn contradistinction to the aforementioned, Fraser posits the \"diversity of time\": the existence of time's myriad manifestations, which \"hardly needs proof; it is all too apparent.\"\n\nThe continued qualitative and quantitative mediation of the unresolvable conflict between the unity and diversity of time would thus be the sole methodological criterion for measuring chronosophical progress. This conflict manifests itself not so much as between the humanities and the sciences (although this interpretation is cogent and apt), but rather between knowledge felt (i.e., \"passion\") and knowledge understood (i.e., knowledge \"proper\"). Fraser envisions the total creativity of a society as being dependent on the effectiveness of \"a harmonious dialogue between the two great branches of knowledge.\" He observes (paraphrasing Giordano Bruno): \"The creative activity of the mind consists of the search for the one in the many, for simplicity in variety. There is no better and more fundamental problem than the problem of time in respect to which such [a] search may be conducted. It is always present and always tantalizing, it is the basic material of man's rational and emotive inquiries.\" Just as a mature individual can reconcile within themselves the unity and diversity of day-to-day noetic existence, so too could a mature social conception of time mediate the difference between—and perhaps ultimately reconcile—the unity and diversity of time.\n\nChronosophy defies systematic organization, for—like philosophy—it is a kind of ur-discipline, subsuming all other disciplines through a proposed unifying characteristic: temporality. (Hence, the possibility of producing a branch of knowledge lacking temporal import, e.g. [arguably] ontology and/or metaphysics, remains; however, \"atemporality\" is still, by definition, a temporal category: a regress ensues.)\n\nFraser wrote that a successful study of time would \"encourage communication across the traditional boundaries of systems of knowledge and seek a framework which . . . may permit interaction of experience and theorizing related to time without regard to the sources of experience and theory.\" Thus, the only methodological commitment that a chronosopher need make is to interdisciplinarity.\n\nWhile Fraser neglects to develop a systematic chronosophical methodology in \"The Voices of Time\", he does proffer a selection of idiomatically interdisciplinary categories to spur the research of future scholars:\n\nThe nature of the above categories would require that chronosophy be regarded as an independent system of experiential, experimental, and theoretical knowledge about time.\n\nIn general, chronosophical pursuits are characterized by\n(1) is a weak criterion, while (2) is a strong one.\n\nNeither of the above criteria make reference to time or temporality; for while the ontological possibly of timeless knowledge must always remain, admission of this possibility begs the question (\"petitio principii\"): e.g., what form does timeless knowledge take? how would it come to us? how could we ever be separated from such knowledge to begin with? \"et cetera ad nauseam\". The admission is therefore a paradox (akin to Wittgenstein's seventh proposition in \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\": \"Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent.\"). We must conclude that the proposal of the possibility of timeless knowledge is both necessary and senseless, a conceptual counterpart to the tautologous nature of the concept of time. Should we come to possess knowledge of that which is \"beneath\" or \"behind\" time (or, alternatively, conclude we could never have lost possession of it), there would be no discernible need for further chronosophical inquiry—in the face of such eternal truth, it would instead be chronosophy as currently conceived that would appear both necessary and senseless.\n\nHence: all disciplines are necessarily chronosophical (until proven otherwise).\n\nCaveat: for the sake of logicality, future manifestations of chronosophy may resemble more closely some methods of knowing than others; however, due to the character of the \"problem\" of time no chronosophical endeavor could ever be thoroughly purged of its interdisciplinary perspectives: a satisfactory theory of time must necessarily satisfy a wide variety of specifications (i.e., by definition a satisfactory or sufficient chronosophy would accommodate every office of human knowledge as pertains to the subject, time).\n\nWhy should we afford time this privileged status among our speculative and empirical undertakings?\n\nA Fraserian chronosopher would argue that mediation of the problem(s) of time is essential to the creation and retention of individual and social identity. Hence, as long as we—as individuals and as social groups—continue to partake in the process of clarifying and defining our individual and collective identities over and against those of the world (in whole or in part) around us, the necessarily contemporaneous clarification and definition of the problem(s) of time must, by extension (\"mutatis mutandis\"), be universal and continuous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17268791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17268791", "title": "Competitive altruism", "text": "Competitive altruism\n\nCompetitive altruism is a possible mechanism for the persistence of cooperative behaviors, specifically those that are performed unconditionally. The theory of reciprocal altruism can be used to explain behaviors that are performed by a donor who receives some sort of benefit in the future. When no such compensation is received, however, reciprocity fails to explain altruistic behavior.\n\nTo explain competitive altruism, Roberts uses the example of preening among birds. Because certain birds cannot reach parasites on all parts of their bodies, particularly their necks, they benefit from preening one another. For any given bird, there is an entire flock of potential preeners, who compete in hopes of establishing a beneficial relationship. Cheaters, or those birds that try to be preened without preening others, do not compete and thus are excluded from these relationships. Their fitness is lowered because they are ostracized by members of the flock.\n\nMcNamara et al. quantitatively analyzed this theory. Like Robert Axelrod, they created a computer program to simulate repeated interactions among individuals. The program involved players with two genetically determined traits, a ‘cooperative trait’ and a ‘choosiness trait.’ They found the following results:\n‘Paradoxical’ trait combinations yield particularly low payoffs: individuals with low choosiness but high effort tend to get exploited by their co-players; individuals with high choosiness but low effort waste their time searching for better co-players, which are, however, unlikely to accept them. The positive correlation between choosiness and cooperativeness leads to a positive assortment between cooperative types – an essential feature of all mechanisms that promote cooperation.\n\nThe development of such cooperation requires variation in the degree of cooperation and choosiness, which the researchers attributed to genetic mutation and variation. McNamara et al. also determined that since a period of searching is required for ‘mutually acceptable’ players to find one another, competitive altruism is more likely to arise in animals with long life spans.\n\nTo relate this condition to the prisoner's dilemma, an individual may benefit the most in a one-time interaction with another by defecting (i.e. receiving benefits without incurring any cost to itself). However, in an iterated prisoner's dilemma, where individuals interact more than once, if the act of defecting makes the individual less likely to attract a fit mate in the future, then cooperative behavior will be selected for.\n\nThis selection for cooperation is even stronger if an individual's action in an interaction is observed by third-party individuals, for the possibility of forming a reputation arises. Amotz Zahavi, famous for his work with the altruistic Arabian babbler, suggests that this level of \"social prestige\" will affect which individuals interact with one another and how they behave. \n\nCompetitive altruism has been demonstrated repeatedly in studies with humans. For instance, individuals are more generous when their behaviour is visible to others and altruistic individuals receive more social status and are selectively preferred as collaboration partners and group leaders... Adding insights from sexual selection theory research has also found that men behave more altruistically in the presence of an (attractive) female and altruistic males are selectively preferred as long-term sexual partners.\n\nThe theory of competitive altruism also helps one connect such behavior to the handicap principle. With competitive altruism, cooperation is considered a trait that provides a signaling benefit, and thus is subject to sexual selection. Like a peacock's tail, cooperation persists and is magnified, even though it carries a cost to the individual. Cooperation must be significantly costly to the individual, such that only a limited proportion of the population is fit enough to partake.\n\nRoberts builds on the idea of altruism as a signaling benefit with his \"free gift theory\". Because the recipient gains some benefit from the interaction with the donor, there is an incentive to pay attention to the signal. For example, some male birds will offer food to a potential mate. Such behavior, called courtship feeding, not only benefits the female, who receives a meal without expending any energy, but also conveys the ability of the male to forage. Consequently, the signal is kept true (i.e. it remains a correct reflection on the fitness of the mate).\n\nHowever, the connection between competitive altruism and signaling is not without criticism. Wright raises the point that an altruistic signaling behavior like gift giving would cause a \"flow of fitness from the higher quality individual to the lower quality one\" and reduce the veracity of the signal. To account for this likely trend, Wright stipulates that the altruistic behavior must be directed at a mate or ally. In order for the theory to hold true, the signaling benefit would have to be shown to improve the individual's fitness beyond the benefit gained from the \"investment\" in the partner.\n\n"}
{"id": "650518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650518", "title": "Complex dynamics", "text": "Complex dynamics\n\nComplex dynamics is the study of dynamical systems defined by iteration of functions on complex number spaces. Complex analytic dynamics is the study of the dynamics of specifically analytic functions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "948018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=948018", "title": "David Lane (white supremacist)", "text": "David Lane (white supremacist)\n\nDavid Eden Lane (November 2, 1938 – May 28, 2007) was an American white supremacist leader and convicted felon. A member of the terror group The Order, he was convicted and sentenced to 190 years in prison for racketeering; conspiracy; and for violating the civil rights of Alan Berg, a Jewish radio talk show host, who was murdered on June 18, 1984. He died while incarcerated in the Federal Correctional Complex in Terre Haute, Indiana.\n\nLane coined the best-known slogan of the American white supremacist movement, the Fourteen Words. He has been described by the Southern Poverty Law Center as \"one of the most important ideologues of contemporary white supremacy.\"\n\nLane was born as the third of four siblings in Woden, Iowa; he had a brother and two sisters. His father was an alcoholic migrant worker who was physically abusive towards his wife and children. Lane would later claim that his father forced his mother to engage in prostitution so he could obtain \"booze money\", and that his older brother was rendered with permanent deafness as a result of a \"beating gone awry\". When Lane was four years old, his father abandoned his family. In 1944, his older brother was arrested after searching for food in a neighbor's trash bins, and he and his sisters were placed in foster care. Lane was soon adopted by a traveling Lutheran minister, which resulted in Lane being separated from his two sisters. Lane described his adoptive father as a \"doctrinaire fundamentalist from the old school\". Bored with endless hours of church services, Lane rejected Christianity, Lane claimed that he first noticed the beauty of the Caucasian race after befriending a blonde-haired girl in first grade to whom he was attracted. Lane stated that while he reenacted battles with his foster brother as a child, he would portray a Nazi stormtrooper while his brother portrayed an American soldier.\n\nTravelling across the Midwestern United States with his adoptive family, Lane finally settled in Aurora, Colorado, where he attended Aurora High School. Originally aspiring to become a golf professional, Lane worked as a real estate broker until his license was revoked because he \"wouldn't sell homes to coloreds in white neighborhoods\".\n\nLane was briefly a member of the John Birch Society before joining the Ku Klux Klan, becoming the organizer of the Denver unit of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan in 1979. In late 1981, Lane became Colorado State Organizer of the Aryan Nations.\n\nLane met Robert Jay Mathews in July 1983 at the Aryan Nations world congress. On September 22, 1983, Lane was among the nine founding members to be sworn into The Order, a white supremacist group which dedicated itself to delivering \"our people from the Jew and bring total victory to the Aryan race.\" The Order was accused of stealing over $4.1 million in armored car hijackings, killing three people (one of whom was Order member Walter E. West), detonating bombs, counterfeiting money, organizing militaristic training camps and carrying out numerous other crimes with the ultimate goal of overthrowing the \"Zionist occupational government\" they deemed in control of the United States and to \"liberate the Pacific Northwest as a homeland for whites\" in the process (see Northwest Territorial Imperative).\n\nFor his role in The Order's crimes, Lane was sentenced to consecutive sentences totaling 190 years, including 20 years for racketeering, 20 years for conspiracy, both under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), and 150 years for violating the civil rights of Alan Berg, a Jewish radio talk show host, who was murdered on June 18, 1984. Berg was shot and killed in the driveway of his Denver home by three members of The Order. David Lane was the getaway driver. Lane was arrested on the evening of March 30, 1985 in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.\n\nLane was also among 14 men prosecuted for seditious conspiracy in Fort Smith, Arkansas, but he was acquitted. Lane was considered extremely dangerous by the American justice system and was incarcerated at various times after his conviction in the United States Penitentiary, Marion, the United States Penitentiary Administrative Maximum Facility in Florence, Colorado, and the Federal Correctional Complex, Terre Haute.\n\nWhile incarcerated, he had the Federal Bureau of Prisons ID # 12873-057. Lane wrote books and articles about gematria and the demographic and sociopolitical status of the white race for white nationalist periodicals and websites. With his wife and Ron McVan, he ran a publishing company called 14 Word Press in Idaho to disseminate his writings.\n\nHe was featured in \"Nazi Pop Twins\", a documentary aired on July 19, 2007, on Channel 4 in the UK. In it he was shown speaking by phone with Prussian Blue (the music act from the documentary) and termed them \"fantasy sweethearts\" and that he viewed them like daughters.\n\nLane's earliest possible release date from prison would have been on March 29, 2035 (at age 96). He died on May 28, 2007, in FCC Terre Haute due to an epileptic seizure. On June 30, 2007, white supremacists held memorial demonstrations for Lane in cities across the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Russia, and Ukraine.\n\nLane stated that his beliefs can be best summarized by a slogan called the \"Fourteen words\", a term that he coined: \"We must secure the existence of our people and a future for White children.\" He also coined a second 14-word slogan: \"because the beauty of the White Aryan woman must not perish from the earth.\"\n\nLane authored the 88 Precepts, a collection of statements on natural law, which combine in white supremacist shorthand with the 14 words to \"14-88\" or \"14/88\". In white nationalism, 88 is also a reference to \"Heil Hitler\".\n\nLane was one of the founders of the Wotansvolk movement, a racist, neo-\"völkisch\" form of Odinism (or Wotanism) he formed with his wife Katja in 1995 to promote his ideology which pursued a program of concerted outreach to prisons. Wotansvolk combines an \"Aryan call to arms\" with an esoteric teaching, based in part on Jungian psychology, völkish philosophy, and National Socialism. Lane distanced himself from universalist Odinists (including \"folkish Asatru\") who did not embrace \"survival of the Aryan race\" as a core part of the movement. Lane argued with Stephen McNallen, then leader of the Asatru Folk Assembly when Lane was alive. By 2017, McNallen came out with support for Lane's 14 Words quoting them verbatim. \n\nAiming at a white revolution, Wotansvolk endorsed a \"leaderless resistance\" strategy popularized by Klan veteran Louis Beam, a longtime friend of the Lane family. However, 14 Word Press and Temple of Wotan are now defunct as organizations and no longer have mailing addresses or websites, although Wotanism is still practiced by independent kindreds.\n\nLane also taught something he called the \"Pyramid Prophecy\", which included the concept that a Bible code was inserted by \"Aryan adepts\" within the King James Version of the Christian Bible. Lane was described by the code he deciphered as \"the Man of prophecy\". Lane issued a declaration called \"Moral Authority\", as well, which calls the United States a \"Red, White and Blue traveling mass murder machine\" intent on committing genocide against white people. According to the declaration, \"true moral authority belongs to those who resist\" this purported genocide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54375684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54375684", "title": "Democratic backsliding", "text": "Democratic backsliding\n\nIn political science, democratic backsliding is the gradual decline in the quality of democracy. Democratic backsliding can occur both in democracies and autocracies. Democratic backsliding may occur when essential components of democracy are threatened; this may occur, for example, when:\n\n\nAziz Huq and Tom Ginsburg of the University of Chicago Law School argue that many threats to democracy are stealthy. Pippa Norris of the Harvard Kennedy School and University of Sydney argues, in an article published by the \"Journal of Democracy\" in 2017, that two \"twin forces\" that pose the greatest contemporary threat to Western liberal democracy: \"sporadic and random terrorist attacks on domestic soil, which damage feelings of security, and the rise of populist-authoritarian forces, which feed parasitically upon these fears.\" Norris argues that the latter risk is especially pronounced in the United States during the presidency of Donald Trump.\n\nThe scholarly recognition of the concept of democratic backsliding reflects a reversal from older views, which held \"that democracy, once attained in a fairly wealthy state, would become a permanent fixture.\" This older view came to be realized as erroneous beginning in the mid-2000s, as (in Huq and Ginsburg's words) \"an increasing number of seemingly stable, reasonably wealthy democracies have retreated from previously robust democratic regimes toward autocracy\" in a variety of regions across the world, including Hungary and Poland in Europe; Turkey in the Mediterranean; and Bolivia and Venezuela in Latin America. More broadly, Huq and Ginsburg identified in an academic paper \"37 instances in 25 different countries in the postwar period in which democratic quality declined significantly (though a fully authoritarian regime didn't emerge)\". Huq and Ginsburg note that coups have decreased at the same time that democratic backsliding has increased. \n\nIn 2017, the U.S.-based research group Freedom House published a report indicating that 25% of countries that suffered \"backward moves on democracy\" in the previous year were in European democracies, including the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Spain. The report also listed the United States as having regressed democratically. Chavismo in Venezuela is viewed as having propelled democratic backsliding in that country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18994268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18994268", "title": "DeviantArt", "text": "DeviantArt\n\nDeviantArt (deviantART from August 7, 2000, to December 3, 2014, abbreviated \"DA\" by members) is an online artwork, videography and photography community. The website was launched on August 7, 2000, by Angelo Sotira, Scott Jarkoff, Matthew Stephens and others. Artworks are organized in a category structure, including photography, digital art, traditional art, literature, Flash, filmmaking, skins for applications, operating system customization utilities and others, along with downloadable resources such as tutorials and stock photography. Additional features include \"journals\", \"polls\", \"groups\" and \"portfolios\".\n\nDeviantArt, Inc. is headquartered in the Hollywood area of Los Angeles, California, United States. \"Fella\", a small, devil-esque robotic character, was the official mascot of the website until 2014. The domain \"deviantart.com\" had at least 36 million visitors annually by 2008. By 2010, DeviantArt users were submitting over 1.4 million \"favorites\" and 1.5 million comments daily. , it was the 13th largest social network with 3.8 million weekly visits. , the site had over 26 million members and 251 million submissions. On February 23, 2017, the company announced it was being acquired by Wix.com in a $36 million deal. In 2018, Deviantart announced another redesign, currently titled \"Eclipse\".\n\nDeviantArt started as a site connected with people who took computer applications and modified them to their own tastes, or who \"deviated\" the applications from the original designs. As the site grew, members in general became known as \"deviants\" and submissions as \"deviations\". DeviantArt was originally launched on August 7, 2000, by Scott Jarkoff, Matt Stephens, Angelo Sotira and others, as part of a larger network of music-related websites called the Dmusic Network. The site flourished largely because of its unique offering and the contributions of its core member base and a team of volunteers after its launch, but was officially incorporated in 2001 about eight months after launch.\n\nDeviantArt was loosely inspired by projects like Winamp facelift, customize.org, deskmod.com, screenphuck.com, and skinz.org, all application skin-based websites. Sotira entrusted all public aspects of the project to Scott Jarkoff as an engineer and visionary to launch the early program. All three co-founders shared backgrounds in the application skinning community, but it was Matt Stephens whose major contribution to DeviantArt was the suggestion to take the concept further than skinning and more toward an \"art community\". Many of the individuals involved with the initial development and promotion of DeviantArt still hold positions with the project, from administrators to volunteers serving as gallery directors and Message Network Administration. Angelo Sotira currently serves as the chief executive officer of DeviantArt, Inc.\n\nOn November 14, 2006, DeviantArt gave its users the option to submit their works under Creative Commons licenses giving the artists the right to choose how their works can be used. A Creative Commons license is one of several public copyright licenses that allow the distribution of copyrighted works. On September 30, 2007, a film category was added to DeviantArt, allowing artists to upload videos. An artist and other viewers can add annotations to sections of the film, giving comments or critiques to the artist about a particular moment in the film. In 2007, DeviantArt received $3.5 million in Series A (first round) funding from undisclosed investors, and in 2013, it received $10 million in Series B funding.\n\nOn December 4, 2014, the site unveiled a new logo and announced the release of an official mobile app on both iOS and Android to be released on December 10, 2014.\n\nOn February 23, 2017, DeviantArt was acquired by Wix.com, Inc. for $36 million. The site plans to integrate DeviantArt and Wix functionality, including the ability to utilize DA resources on websites built with Wix, and integrating some of Wix's design tools into the site.\n\nAs of March 1, 2017, DeviantArt banned Syria from accessing its services entirely citing US and Israeli sanctions and aftermath, on February 19, 2018, Syrian user \"Mythiril\" used a VPN to access the site and disclose the geoblocking in a journal \"the Hypocrisy of Deviantart\" that sparked a public outcry across Deviantart and other sites. DeviantArt eventually ended the geoblocking except for commercial features.\n\nThere is no review for potential copyright and Creative Commons licensing violations when a work is submitted to DeviantArt, so potential violations can remain unnoticed until reported to administrators using the mechanism available for such issues. Some members of the community have been the victims of copyright infringement from vendors using artwork illegally on products and prints, as reported in 2007. The reporting system in which to counteract copyright infringement directly on the site has been subject to a multitude of criticism from members of the site, given that it may take weeks, or even a month before a filed complaint for copyright infringement is answered.\n\nDue to the nature of DeviantArt as an art community with worldwide reach, companies use DeviantArt to promote themselves and create more advertising through contests. \"CoolClimate\" is a research network connected with the University of California, and they held a contest in 2012 to address the impact of climate change. Worldwide submissions were received, and the winner was featured in \"The Huffington Post\".\n\nVarious car companies have held contests. Dodge ran a contest in 2012 for art of the Dodge Dart and over 4,000 submissions were received. Winners received cash and item prizes, and were featured in a gallery at Dodge-Chrysler headquarters. Lexus partnered with DeviantArt in 2013 to run a contest for cash and other prizes based on their Lexus IS design; the winner's design became a modified Lexus IS and was showcased at the SEMA 2013 show in Los Angeles, California.\n\nDeviantArt also hosts contests for upcoming movies, such as \"Riddick\". Fan art for \"Riddick\" was submitted, and director David Twohy chose the winners, who would receive cash prizes and some other DeviantArt-related prizes, as well as having their artwork made into official fan-art posters for events. A similar contest was held for Dark Shadows where winners received cash and other prizes.\n\nVideo games also conduct contests with DeviantArt, such as the 2013 \"Tomb Raider\" contest. The winner had their art made into an official print sold internationally at the Tomb Raider store, and received cash and other prizes. Other winners also received cash and DeviantArt-related prizes.\n\nThe site has over 358 million images which have been uploaded by its over 35 million registered members. By July 2011, DeviantArt was the largest online art community. Members of DeviantArt may leave comments and critiques on individual deviation pages, allowing the site to be called \"a [free] peer evaluation application\". Along with textual critique, DeviantArt now offers the option to leave a small picture as a comment. This can be achieved using an option of DeviantArt Muro, which is a browser-based drawing tool that DeviantArt has developed and hosts. Although only members of DeviantArt can save their work as deviations. Another feature of Muro is what is called \"Redraw\"; it records the user as they draw their image, and then the user can post the entire process as a film deviation. Some artists in late 2013 began experimenting with the use of breakfast cereal as the subject of their pieces, although this trend has only started spreading.\n\nIndividual deviations are displayed on their own pages, with a list of statistical information about the image, as well as place for comments by the artist and other members, and the option to share through other social media (Facebook, Twitter, etc.). Deviations are required to be organized into categories when a member uploads an image and this allows DeviantArt's search engine to find images concerning similar topics.\n\nIndividual members can organize their own deviations into folders on their personal pages. The member pages (profiles) show a member's personally uploaded deviations and journal postings. Journals are like personal blogs for the member pages, and the choice of topic is up to each member; some use it to talk about their personal or art-related lives, others use it to spread awareness or marshal support for a cause. Also displayed are a member's \"favorites\", a collection of other users' images from DeviantArt that a member saves to its own folder. Another thing found on the profile page is a member's \"watchers\"; a member adds another member to their \"watch list\" in order to be notified when that member uploads something. The watcher notifications are gathered in a member's Message Center with other notices, like when other users comment on that member's deviations, or when the member's image has been put in someone's favorites.\n\nIn order to communicate on a more private level, \"Notes\" can be sent between individual members, like an email within the site. The other opportunities for communication between members are DeviantArt's forums, for more structured, long-term discussions, and chatrooms, for group instant messaging.\n\nDeviantArt has been revising the website in \"versions\", with each version releasing multiple new features. The third, fourth and fifth versions of the site were all released on August 7, the \"birthday\" of the website's founding.\n\nIn beginning of November, DeviantArt released new promo site that show a new feature for upcoming site update known as \"Eclipse\" in term of giving a new minimal redesign: Featuring dark mode, an modified CSS, making easier for \"deviants\" to edit such like journals, New additional benefits for Core membership (20% Discount of print and submit film) Profile Header, No third-party Advertisement and Love Meter, an feature show more artwork based on your tastes as well as some improvement such like Search and notifications. \nIn November 14, 2018, Administrator of DeviantArt, danlev released of journal for all beta tester to test the new site. In total, there over 4,000 user tried Eclipse, 1,700 feedback, 407 bug reports, 532 feature request and 748 pieces of general commentary. It is still currently available for beta tester. \n\nIt received mostly mixed responses as user biggest complain is removal of Custom Box, an Widget that only allow user who have Core (DeviantArt Membership) to customize, using CSS and HTML which the reason for user to buy Core Membership.\nDeviantArt are currently working on new customization and personalization options.\nAlong with the version upgrades, there have been numerous features that DeviantArt was using before other social websites. Co-founder Angelo Sotira shared these in an interview:\n\nOn June 17 and 18, 2005, DeviantArt held their first convention, the deviantART Summit, at the Palladium in the Hollywood area of Los Angeles, California, United States. The summit consisted of several exhibitions by numerous artists, including artscene groups old and new at about 200 different booths. Giant projection screens displayed artwork as it was being submitted live to DeviantArt, which was receiving 50,000 new images daily at the time.\n\nStarting May 13, 2009, DeviantArt embarked on a world tour, visiting cities around the world, including Sydney, Singapore, Warsaw, Istanbul, Berlin, Paris, London, New York City, Toronto and Los Angeles. During the world tour, the new \"Portfolio\" feature of DeviantArt was previewed to attendees.\n\nOccasionally, DeviantArt hosts a meeting for members to come together in real life and interact, exchange, and have fun. There have been meetings for the birthday of DeviantArt, called \"Birthday Bashes\", as well as simple general get-togethers around the world. In 2010, European DeviantArt members held a deviantMEET to celebrate DeviantArt's birthday in August. There was also a celebration that year in the House of Blues in Hollywood, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "31559443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31559443", "title": "Domestic violence and pregnancy", "text": "Domestic violence and pregnancy\n\nPregnancy when coupled with domestic violence is a form of intimate partner violence (IPV) where health risks may be amplified. Abuse during pregnancy, whether physical, verbal or emotional, produces many adverse physical and psychological effects for both the mother and fetus. Domestic violence during pregnancy is categorized as abusive behavior towards a pregnant woman, where the pattern of abuse can often change in terms of severity and frequency of violence. Abuse may be a long-standing problem in a relationship that continues after a woman becomes pregnant or it may commence in pregnancy. Although female-to-male partner violence occurs in these settings, the overwhelming form of domestic violence is perpetrated by men against women. Pregnancy provides a unique opportunity for healthcare workers to screen women for domestic violence though a recent review found that the best way in which to do this is unclear. Reducing domestic violence in pregnancy should improve outcomes for mothers and babies though more good quality studies are needed to work out effective ways of screening pregnant women.\n\nDomestic abuse can be triggered by pregnancy for a number of reasons. Pregnancy itself can be used a form of coercion and the phenomenon of preventing an intimate partner's reproductive choice is referred to as reproductive coercion. Studies on birth control sabotage performed by males against female partners have indicated a strong correlation between domestic violence and birth control sabotage. Pregnancy can also lead to a hiatus of domestic violence when the abuser does not want to harm the unborn child. The risk of domestic violence for pregnant women is greatest immediately after childbirth.\n\nDomestic violence can increase a woman's chances of becoming pregnant and the number of children she has, both because the woman may be coerced into sex and because she may be prevented from using birth control. A correlation has been shown between large families and domestic violence. Whereas previously it was thought that having many children and the resultant stress of large families increased likelihood domestic violence, it has been shown that the violence commonly predates the births.\n\nBirth control sabotage, or reproductive coercion, is a form of coercion where someone manipulates another person's use of birth control - weakening efforts to prevent an unwanted pregnancy. Replacing birth control pills with fakes, puncturing condoms, and threats and violence are examples of prevention of an individual's attempt to avoid pregnancy. Pregnancy-promoting behavior of abusive male partners is one method of domestic violence and is associated with unwanted pregnancy, particularly in adolescents. Reproductive coercion itself is a form of domestic violence because it results from unwanted sexual activity and hinders a woman’s ability to control her body. Forced pregnancy can also be a form of financial abuse when a woman becomes trapped in a relationship because the pregnancy has led to economic dependence for new mothers.\n\nUnintended pregnancies are 2 to 3 times more likely to be associated with abuse than intended pregnancies. Research among adolescent populations shows females who experience IPV use condoms at low rates and are fearful of negotiating the use of condoms. In a study of sexually experienced women 15-19 in Uganda, surveys found that fourteen percent of women’s first sexual intercourse had been coerced. Of those fourteen percent, the women were far more likely to be having unprotected sex without the use of modern contraceptives and to have had unintended pregnancies within the last six months compared to women who had not been sexually coerced. In Egypt, over 80% of rural women believe that beatings are sometimes justified and one of the most common reasons given as a just cause for beatings is refusing a man sex. This affects the ability of women to protect themselves from unwanted sexual contact and the consequences of sexual intercourse, such as pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections.\n\nA study conducted by the Center for Impact Research on young mothers classified birth control sabotage into two categories: verbal and behavioral. Verbal sabotage is verbal or emotional pressure not to use birth control, or pressure to become pregnant. Behavioral sabotage is the use of force to prevent the use of birth control, or to have unprotected sexual intercourse.\n\nIn most cases, domestic violence can be prompted by or intensified by pregnancy, but in some cases domestic violence ends during pregnancy because the abuser makes a conscious effort to not harm the fetus.\n\nDomestic violence does not always increase during pregnancy and can even lead to a hiatus in violence. This phenomenon can provide protection for both the woman and child. Because this can lead to decreased violence, some women use pregnancy as a means of protection against domestic abuse. Since abuse generally restarts after the pregnancy ends, women may get pregnant intentionally to prevent violence. However, since women who have been abused before getting pregnant are more likely to experience violence during pregnancy, this is not a reliable means of protection.\n\nAlthough pregnancy can be a protective period for some women, either in terms of a hiatus of pre-existing violence, for others it is a risk period during which abuse may begin or escalate. Women with violent partners have a hard time protecting themselves from unintended pregnancy and sexual violence can directly lead to pregnancy. Studies consistently indicate that domestic violence is more common in large families. However, international studies show that 25% of women are abused for the first time during pregnancy.\n\nIn one study conduct by Campbell \"et al.\", women were asked to speculate on why they thought they were abused during their pregnancies. The answers were categorized into four categories:\n\nThere are many dangerous effects that violence during pregnancy can cause for both the mother and child. A violent pregnancy is considered high risk because verbal, emotional, and physical abuse all lead to adverse health consequences for both the mother and fetus. Violence during pregnancy has been associated with miscarriage, late prenatal care, stillbirth, preterm birth, fetal injury (including bruising, broken and fractured bones, stab wounds and low birth weight. Violence during pregnancy also leads to additional risks for the mother such as increased mental health problems, suicide attempts, worsening of chronic illness, injury, substance abuse, anxiety, stress, chronic pain, and gynecological problems. Women battered during pregnancy were more frequently and severely beaten throughout the course of their relationship compared to women who were not abused during pregnancy. IPV also accounts for a large portion of maternal mortality. Homicide is the second leading cause of injury related deaths in pregnant and post-partum women in the United States and a study conducted in hospital in India found that 16% of all deaths during pregnancy were a result of partner violence. Studies have also found a correlation between domestic violence and increased use of abortion. Pregnant abused women are less likely to report abuse or leave their abuser because of added financial and housing security concerns.\n\nCertain women are more likely to be abused during pregnancy than others. Women who have been abused before getting pregnant are at higher risk of violence during pregnancy. Abuse is not restricted to a specific socio-economic or demographic group of women or to a specific period in a woman’s reproductive life.\n\nIn general, the rate of physical violence during pregnancy decreases as household income increases. Women whose total household income was less than $16,000 were much more likely to experience physical or sexual violence during pregnancy than women with a total household income over $16,000.\n\nPartner violence in a relationship increases the chances of unintended pregnancy. A Canadian study that outlined causes of physical abuse identified “social instability” (e.g. low age, unmarried, lower level of education, and unemployment) as a trigger for violence and used unplanned pregnancies as an example. This suggests that partner violence can lead to increased unintended pregnancies which, in turn, increases physical abuse. Younger women are statistically more susceptible to reproductive coercion and this may be due to less experience in relationships and, for minors, less access to doctor’s appointments and emergency contraception. Adolescents are especially at risk and teenage pregnancy is correlated with increased rates of domestic violence. Young women with older boyfriends are more likely to experience domestic violence. Women who experience physical violence from their husbands are less likely to use contraception and more likely to have an unwanted pregnancy.\n\nA study done on reporting rates of domestic violence concluded that a woman’s risk of physical and sexual violence during pregnancy is under-reported and underestimated. Each year, over 324,000 pregnant women are victims of domestic violence in the United States. A number of countries have sought to statistically estimate the number of adult women who have experienced domestic violence during pregnancy:\n\nIncidence rates are higher for teenagers. The incidence rate for low-income, teen mothers is as high as 38%.\n"}
{"id": "28257803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28257803", "title": "Embedded generosity", "text": "Embedded generosity\n\nEmbedded generosity is the incorporation of charitable donations into the sale of a product at no extra cost and was highlighted as a key consumer trend for 2010 by Trendwatching.\n\nConsumers are increasingly trying to do good as they spend. Research in 2008 by Cone, a brand consultancy, found that 79% of consumers would switch to a brand associated with a good cause.\n\nRather than try to make products that can be marketed as ethical in their own right, such as “fair trade” goods, firms are increasingly trying to take an ordinary product and boost its moral credentials with embedded generosity\n\nExamples of embedded generosity initiatives include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37839610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37839610", "title": "Fading affect bias", "text": "Fading affect bias\n\nThe fading affect bias, more commonly known as FAB, is a psychological phenomenon in which information regarding negative emotions tends to be forgotten more quickly than that associated with pleasant emotions. Although there have been some contradictory findings regarding the presence of FAB, it has been largely found to be real.\n\nInitially, the Fading Affect Bias was widely accepted as the process whereby the emotional valence of certain events fades over time. More specifically, early researchers largely believed that there was a general fading over time of emotional content and intensity in relation to specific life events, regardless of whether the experiences were positive ones or negative ones. However, later studies found that cognitive processes occur that cause the emotional intensity of negative events to dissipate at a faster rate than positively perceived events. Many conclusions have been drawn regarding FAB, and many explanations have been proposed for why it even exists.\n\nSome of the earliest evidence and argument for the validity of the Fading Affect Bias can be dated back to 's study. In this study, a retrospective procedure was put into effect, which entailed the recollection of past events as well as a rating of the emotions which the respective events prompted. Data from this study reflected that the recalling of positive events was generally stronger than that of negative events. However, criticism of this study centered upon the fact that retrospective and introspective procedures could possibly be subject to memory biases. Thus, a later study——took a \"non-introspective\" approach to studying FAB. Twenty-six subjects were told to record events in a diary and record the emotional intensities of the experiences. Data results from these studies were found to be generally consistent with FAB.\n\nPublication from has been viewed as the \"modern era\" of FAB studies. In a 1997 publication, Walker discussed the role which memory plays in FAB. Here, it is stated that human beings are preferential in what they select to remember and that certain particulars of events fade, but emotions necessarily do not. Walker used a diary recording method to analyze the cognitive processes of a sample of Caucasian undergraduates. This study found that emotions prompted by positive events were more likely to last than those prompted by negative occurrences. Nonetheless, later studies were conducted by others which were more representative of the population, in that they included people of various races, different socioeconomic statuses, and both genders.\n\nIn addition to the aforementioned psychological studies, related neurobiological studies were conducted that could possibly further explain the phenomenon of FAB. During an interview, neurobiologist Matt Wilson detailed that in studying the brain activity of rats it was found that the remembrance of past events and the anticipation of future events seemed to be linked neurologically. This is a possible implication of why FAB exists: the human need to catalog relevant information to be used in the future.\n\nSigmund Freud's theory of repression was used during initial research of FAB. A key tenet of the FAB theory is that certain emotional intensities dissipate over the course of time. Freud's theory of repression, however, implies that while specific event memories can be eventually forgotten over time, accompanying emotions remain unbothered. Also, it states that intense emotions are more likely to be remembered, but \"not necessarily the substance of.\"\n\nResearchers have drawn many conclusions regarding why FAB occurs. A popular explanation for FAB among psychologists and researchers alike is the need for healthy self-awareness and positive self-esteem. It has been largely found that FAB is more prevalent among mentally healthy individuals as opposed to those who suffer from mental and neurological dysfunction. More specifically, it has been established that people who suffer from even mild depression are more likely to maintain negative emotions from unpleasant experiences. Thus, it has been concluded that FAB allows one to have positive perception and be more likely to attain a positive self-image. In addition, it has been found that human beings have the tendency to alter their negative emotions into positive ones and to use certain negative occurrences as learning experiences. This too adds to having a positive outlook on life. Several things, such as self-image, one's mood disposition, the frequency of rehearsal, and \"recreational drug use\" are considered moderators of FAB.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51503872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51503872", "title": "Free neutron decay", "text": "Free neutron decay\n\nOutside the nucleus, free neutrons are unstable and have a mean lifetime of (about 14 minutes, 42 seconds). Therefore, the half-life for this process (which differs from the mean lifetime by a factor of ) is (about 10 minutes, 11 seconds). The beta decay of the neutron, described above, can be denoted as follows:\n\nThis decay, like any flavor-changing process, occurs through operation of the weak force. It involves the emission of a boson from one of the down quarks within the neutron, thereby converting the down quark into an up quark and the neutron into a proton; the then decays into the electron and the antineutrino. The following equations denote the same process as the first equation above, but also include the short-lived and describe the process on both the nucleon and the quark level:\n\nFor the free neutron, the decay energy for this process (based on the rest masses of the neutron, proton and electron) is 0.782343 MeV. That is the difference between the rest mass of the neutron and the sum of the rest masses of the products. That difference has to be carried away as kinetic energy. The maximal energy of the beta decay electron (in the process wherein the neutrino receives a vanishingly small amount of kinetic energy) has been measured at 0.782 ± .013 MeV. The latter number is not well-enough measured to determine the comparatively tiny rest mass of the neutrino (which must in theory be subtracted from the maximal electron kinetic energy); furthermore, neutrino mass is constrained by many other methods.\n\nA small fraction (about one in 1000) of free neutrons decay with the same products, but add an extra particle in the form of an emitted gamma ray:\n\nThis gamma ray may be thought of as a sort of \"internal bremsstrahlung\" that arises as the emitted beta particle (electron) interacts with the charge of the proton in an electromagnetic way. In this process, some of the decay energy is carried away as photon energy. Internal bremsstrahlung gamma ray production is also a minor feature of beta decays of bound neutrons, that is, those within a nucleus.\n\nA very small minority of neutron decays (about four per million) are so-called \"two-body (neutron) decays\", in which a proton, electron and antineutrino are produced as usual, but the electron fails to gain the 13.6 eV necessary energy to escape the proton (the ionization energy of hydrogen), and therefore simply remains bound to it, as a neutral hydrogen atom (one of the \"two bodies\"). In this type of free neutron decay, in essence all of the neutron decay energy is carried off by the antineutrino (the other \"body\").\n\nThe transformation of a free proton to a neutron (plus a positron and a neutrino) is energetically impossible, since a free neutron has a greater mass than a free proton.\n\nWhile the neutron lifetime has been studied for decades, there currently exists a lack of consilience on its exact value, due to different results from two experimental methods (\"bottle\" versus \"beam\"). While the error margin was once overlapping, increasing refinement in technique which should have resolved the issue has failed to demonstrate convergence to a single value. The difference in mean lifetime values obtained as of 2014 was approximately 9 seconds. Further, a prediction of the value based on quantum chromodynamics as of 2018 is still not sufficiently precise to support one over the other.\n"}
{"id": "903376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903376", "title": "Hyperbolic discounting", "text": "Hyperbolic discounting\n\nIn economics, hyperbolic discounting is a time-\"inconsistent\" model of delay discounting. It is one of the cornerstones of behavioral economics.\n\nThe discounted utility approach states that intertemporal choices are no different from other choices, except that some consequences are delayed and hence must be anticipated and discounted (i.e., reweighted to take into account the delay).\n\nGiven two similar rewards, humans show a preference for one that arrives sooner rather than later. Humans are said to \"discount\" the value of the later reward, by a factor that increases with the length of the delay. This process is traditionally modeled in the form of exponential discounting, a time-\"consistent\" model of discounting. A large number of studies have since demonstrated deviations from the constant discount rate assumed in exponential discounting. Hyperbolic discounting is an alternative mathematical model that accounts for these deviations.\n\nAccording to hyperbolic discounting, valuations fall relatively rapidly for earlier delay periods (as in, from now to one week), but then fall more slowly for longer delay periods (for instance, more than a few days). For example, in an early study subjects said they would be indifferent between receiving $15 immediately or $30 after 3 months, $60 after 1 year, or $100 after 3 years. These indifferences reflect annual discount rates that declined from 277% to 139% to 63% as delays got longer. This contrasts with exponential discounting, in which valuation falls by a constant factor per unit delay and the discount rate stays the same.\n\nThe standard experiment used to reveal a test subject's hyperbolic discounting curve is to compare short-term preferences with long-term preferences. For instance: \"Would you prefer a dollar today or three dollars tomorrow?\" or \"Would you prefer a dollar in one year or three dollars in one year and one day?\" It has been claimed that a significant fraction of subjects will take the lesser amount today, but will gladly wait one extra day in a year in order to receive the higher amount instead. Individuals with such preferences are described as \"present-biased\".\n\nThe most important consequence of hyperbolic discounting is that it creates temporary preferences for small rewards that occur sooner over larger, later ones. Individuals using hyperbolic discounting reveal a strong tendency to make choices that are inconsistent over time – they make choices today that their future self would prefer not to have made, despite knowing the same information. This dynamic inconsistency happens because hyperbolas distort the relative value of options with a fixed difference in delays in proportion to how far the choice-maker is from those options.\n\nThe phenomenon of hyperbolic discounting is implicit in Richard Herrnstein's \"matching law\", which states that when dividing their time or effort between two non-exclusive, ongoing sources of reward, most subjects allocate in direct proportion to the rate and size of rewards from the two sources, and in inverse proportion to their delays. That is, subjects' choices \"match\" these parameters.\n\nAfter the report of this effect in the case of delay, George Ainslie pointed out that in a single choice between a larger, later and a smaller, sooner reward, inverse proportionality to delay would be described by a plot of value by delay that had a hyperbolic shape, and that when the smaller, sooner reward is preferred, this preference can be reversed by increasing both rewards' delays by the same absolute amount. Ainslie's research showed that a substantial number of subjects reported that they would prefer $50 immediately rather than $100 in six months, but would NOT prefer $50 in 3 months rather than $100 in nine months, even though this was the same choice seen at 3 months’ greater distance. More significantly, those subjects who said they preferred $50 in 3 months to $100 in 9 months said they would NOT prefer $50 in 12 months to $100 in 18 months—again, the same pair of options at a different distance—showing that the preference-reversal effect did not depend on the excitement of getting an immediate reward. Nor does it depend on human culture; the first preference reversal findings were in rats and pigeons.\n\nA large number of subsequent experiments have confirmed that spontaneous preferences by both human and nonhuman subjects follow a hyperbolic curve rather than the conventional, exponential curve that would produce consistent choice over time. For instance, when offered the choice between $50 now and $100 a year from now, many people will choose the immediate $50. However, given the choice between $50 in five years or $100 in six years almost everyone will choose $100 in six years, even though that is the same choice seen at five years' greater distance.\n\nHyperbolic discounting has also been found to relate to real-world examples of self-control. Indeed, a variety of studies have used measures of hyperbolic discounting to find that drug-dependent individuals discount delayed consequences more than matched nondependent controls, suggesting that extreme delay discounting is a fundamental behavioral process in drug dependence. Some evidence suggests pathological gamblers also discount delayed outcomes at higher rates than matched controls. Whether high rates of hyperbolic discounting precede addictions or vice versa is currently unknown, although some studies have reported that high-rate discounters are more likely to consume alcohol and cocaine than lower-rate discounters. Likewise, some have suggested that high-rate hyperbolic discounting makes unpredictable (gambling) outcomes more satisfying.\n\nThe degree of discounting is vitally important in describing hyperbolic discounting, especially in the discounting of specific rewards such as money. The discounting of monetary rewards varies across age groups due to the varying discount rate. The rate depends on a variety of factors, including the species being observed, age, experience, and the amount of time needed to consume the reward.\n\nSeveral alternative explanations of non-exponential discounting have been proposed. An article from 2003 noted that this pattern might be better explained by a similarity heuristic than by hyperbolic discounting. Subjects have also reported changing relative preferences as they see more details of what they are choosing—a “temporal construal” effect.\n\nA study by Daniel Read introduces \"subadditive discounting\": the fact that discounting over a delay increases if the delay is divided into smaller intervals. This hypothesis may explain the main finding of many studies in support of hyperbolic discounting—the observation that impatience declines with time–while also accounting for observations not predicted by hyperbolic discounting. However, although these observations depart from exponential discounting, they do not entail preference reversal as time from the choice to the earlier reward increases.\n\nArousal of appetite or emotion does sometimes lead to preference reversal, and this has been the most widely accepted alternative to a simply hyperbolic function: hyperboloid or quasi-hyperbolic discounting fuses exponential curves with an arousal bump as a visceral reward becomes imminent. Such cases are obviously important, but still do not account for cases where either both or neither choice is made during arousal.\n\nThe most obvious objection to hyperbolic discounting is that many or most people learn to choose consistently over time in most situations. Similarly, a 2014 paper criticized the existing studies for mostly using data collected from university students and being too quick to conclude that the hyperbolic model of discounting is correct. Human experiments have frequently reported wide between-subject variations. If overcoming the tendency to temporary preference takes learning, the next obvious task for experimenters is to test theories of how and when this learning occurs (e.g. Ainslie, 2012).\n\nSuppose that in a study, participants are offered the choice between taking \"x\" dollars immediately or taking \"y\" dollars \"n\" days later. Suppose further that one participant in that study employs exponential discounting and another employs hyperbolic discounting.\n\nEach participant will realize that \"a\") they should take \"x\" dollars immediately if they can invest the dollar in a different venture that will yield more than \"y\" dollars \"n\" days later and \"b\") they will be indifferent between the choices (selecting one at random) if the best available alternative will likewise yield \"y\" dollars \"n\" days later. (Assume, for the sake of simplicity, that the values of all available investments are compounded daily.) Each participant correctly understands the fundamental question being asked: \"For any given value of \"y\" dollars and \"n\" days, what is the minimum amount of money, \"i.e.\", the minimum value for \"x\" dollars, that I should be willing to accept? In other words, how many dollars would I need to invest today to get \"y\" dollars \"n\" days from now?\" Each will take \"x\" dollars if \"x\" is greater than the answer that they calculate, and each will take \"y\" dollars \"n\" days from now if \"x\" is smaller than that answer. However, the methods that they use to calculate that amount and the answers that they get will be different, and only the exponential discounter will use the correct method and get a reliably correct result:\n\n\nWhere the exponential discounter reasons correctly and the hyperbolic discounter goes wrong is that as \"n\" becomes very large, the value of (1 + \"r\" %)^\"n\" becomes much larger than the value of \"n\", with the effect that the value of \"y\" / [(1 + \"r\" %)^\"n\"] becomes much smaller than the value of \"y\" /\"n\". Therefore, the minimum value of \"x\" (the number of dollars in the immediate choice) that suffices to be greater than that amount will be much smaller than the hyperbolic discounter thinks, with the result that they will perceive \"x\"-values in the range from \"y\" / [(1 + \"r\" %)^\"n\"] to \"y\"/\"n\" (inclusive at the low end) as being too small and, as a result, irrationally turn those alternatives down when they are in fact the better investment.\n\nHyperbolic discounting is mathematically described as\n\nwhere \"g\"(\"D\") is the discount factor that multiplies the value of the reward, \"D\" is the delay in the reward, and \"k\" is a parameter governing the degree of discounting. This is compared with the formula for exponential discounting:\n\nIf formula_3 is an exponential discounting function and formula_4 a hyperbolic function (with \"D\" the number of weeks of delay), then the exponential discounting a week later from \"now\" (\"D\"=0) is formula_5, and the exponential discounting a week from week \"D\" is formula_6, which means they are the same. For \"g\"(\"D\"), formula_7, which is the same as for \"f\", while formula_8. From this one can see that the two types of discounting are the same \"now\", but when \"D\" is much greater than 1, for instance 52 (one year), formula_9 will tend to go to 1, so that the hyperbolic discounting of a week in the far future is virtually zero, while the exponential discount factor is still 1/2, so there is still substantial discounting in the far future.\n\nThe \"quasi-hyperbolic\" discount function, proposed by Laibson (1997), approximates the hyperbolic discount function above in discrete time by\n\nand\n\nwhere \"β\" and \"δ\" are constants between 0 and 1; and again \"D\" is the delay in the reward, and \"f\"(\"D\") is the discount factor. The condition \"f\"(0) = 1 is stating that rewards taken at the present time are not discounted.\n\nQuasi-hyperbolic time preferences are also referred to as \"beta-delta\" preferences. They retain much of the analytical tractability of exponential discounting while capturing the key qualitative feature of discounting with true hyperbolas.\n\nWhether discounting future gains is rational or not—and at what rate such gains should be discounted—depends greatly on circumstances. Many examples exist in the financial world, for example, where it is reasonable to assume that there is an implicit risk that the reward will not be available at the future date, and furthermore that this risk increases with time. Consider paying $50 for dinner today or delaying payment for sixty years but paying $100,000. In this case, the restaurateur would be reasonable to discount the promised future value as there is significant risk that it might not be paid (e.g. due to the death of the restaurateur or the diner).\n\nUncertainty of this type can be quantified with Bayesian analysis. For example, suppose that the probability for the reward to be available after time \"t\" is, for known hazard rate λ,\n\nbut the rate is unknown to the decision maker. If the prior probability distribution of λ is\n\nthen the decision maker will expect that the probability of the reward after time \"t\" is\n\nwhich is exactly the hyperbolic discount rate. Similar conclusions can be obtained from other plausible distributions for λ.\n\nMore recently these observations about discount functions have been used to study saving for retirement, borrowing on credit cards, and procrastination. \nIt has frequently been used to explain addiction.\nHyperbolic discounting has also been offered as an explanation of the divergence between privacy attitudes and behaviour.\n\nThe present value of a series of equal annual cash flows in arrears discounted hyperbolically is\n\nwhere \"V\" is the present value, \"P\" is the annual cash flow, \"D\" is the number of annual payments and \"k\" is the factor governing the discounting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12866711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12866711", "title": "Injustice", "text": "Injustice\n\nInjustice is a quality relating to unfairness or undeserved outcomes. The term may be applied in reference to a particular event or situation, or to a larger status quo. In Western philosophy and jurisprudence, injustice is very commonly—but not always—defined as either the absence or the opposite of justice.\n\nThe sense of injustice is a universal human feature, though the exact circumstances considered unjust can vary from culture to culture. While even acts of nature can sometimes arouse the sense of injustice, the sense is usually felt in relation to human action such as misuse, abuse, neglect, or malfeasance that is uncorrected or else sanctioned by a legal system or fellow human beings.\n\nThe sense of injustice can be a powerful motivational condition, causing people to take action not just to defend themselves but also others who they perceive to be unfairly treated.\n\nProfessor Judith Shklar has written that Western philosophers tend to spend much more time discussing the concept of 'justice' rather than 'injustice'. On the other hand, she states both historical writing and fiction use instances of injustice as subject matter far more often than justice.\n\nIn philosophy and jurisprudence, the dominant view has been that injustice and justice are two sides of the same coin—that injustice is simply a lack of justice. This view has been challenged by professors including Judith Shklar, Thomas W Simon and Eric Heinze, who consider that justice and injustice are independent qualities. So, in this minority view, you can increase the justice of a situation without reducing the injustice. Heinze has even gone as far as to argue that an increase in justice can actually cause an increase in injustice.\n\nA relatively common view among philosophers and other writers is that while justice and injustice may be interdependent, it is injustice that is the primary quality. Many writers have written that, while it is hard to directly define or even perceive justice, it is easy to demonstrate that injustice can be perceived by all. \nAccording to von Hayek, the earliest known thinker to state that injustice is the primary quality was Heraclitus, whose view was echoed by Aristotle and dozens of others down the centuries. Hayek said that writers often express the idea that injustice is the primary concept \"as though it were a new discovery\", suggesting the view is rarely directly expressed in theories on Justice. But Hayek went on to say that legal positivism has proved that injustice, not justice, is the primary quality.\n\nScholars including Judith Shklar, Edmond Cahn and Barrington Moore, Jr. have surveyed anthropological and historical work on injustice, concluding that the sense of injustice is found everywhere there are men and women; it is a human universal. \nThese writers, and others like Simone Weil, Elizabeth Wolgast and Thomas W Simon, hold that the sense of injustice is a powerful motivational condition — unlike the sense of justice which tends to be conceived in more abstract ways, and tends to inspire contemplation rather than action.\n\nCahn held that, for evolutionary reasons, humans who witness others being subjected to injustice can respond as though it was an act of aggression towards themselves. There can be an immediate, visceral activation of the flight or fight system. As Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. puts it \"injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere\". A 2012 study published in Psychological Science found that even babies have a sense of injustice and dislike having it violated, even when they witness events that do not directly effect them.\n\nIn the field of jurisprudence, Cahn has argued that it is an important skill for lawyers to know how to rouse a jury's sense of injustice — something best done by appeals to the particular, not by abstractions or boilerplate type statements. Barrington Moore asserts that reasons why populations often submit to oppression for long periods of time is that they consider it inevitable and so their sense of injustice is not aroused. He says that a widely shared sense of injustice is an essential, though not sufficient, cause of rebellion. Writers including Simone Weil, Elizabeth Wolgast and Judith Shklar have said that an aroused sense of injustice can be an essential prerequisite to action needed for protecting the weak and afflicted.\n\nA common cause of injustice is human selfishness. As Plato described at length in \"The Republic\", people will often commit acts of injustice when they calculate it is in their interests to do so. Plato also adds that \"The highest reach of injustice is to be deemed just when you are not\". Human injustice is not always caused by attempt to gain unfair advantage or malice; it may be simply the result of the flawed human decision making. For example, studies have found that judges sitting on review boards are less likely to reach decisions favorable to applicants depending on how long it is since the judges had their last food break. Misuse and abuse with regard to a particular case or context may represent a systemic failure to serve the cause of justice (cf. legal vacuum).\n\nThe Innocence Project provides a wealth of cases in which the U.S. justice system prosecuted and convicted the wrong person.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "933541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=933541", "title": "Karoubi envelope", "text": "Karoubi envelope\n\nIn mathematics the Karoubi envelope (or Cauchy completion or idempotent completion) of a category C is a classification of the idempotents of C, by means of an auxiliary category. Taking the Karoubi envelope of a preadditive category gives a pseudo-abelian category, hence the construction is sometimes called the pseudo-abelian completion. It is named for the French mathematician Max Karoubi.\n\nGiven a category C, an idempotent of C is an endomorphism \n\nwith \n\nAn idempotent \"e\": \"A\" → \"A\" is said to split if there is an object \"B\" and morphisms \"f\": \"A\" → \"B\",\n\"g\" : \"B\" → \"A\" such that \"e\" = \"g\" \"f\" and 1 = \"f\" \"g\".\n\nThe Karoubi envelope of C, sometimes written Split(C), is the category whose objects are pairs of the form (\"A\", \"e\") where \"A\" is an object of C and formula_3 is an idempotent of C, and whose morphisms are the triples\n\nwhere formula_5 is a morphism of C satisfying formula_6 (or equivalently formula_7).\n\nComposition in Split(C) is as in C, but the identity morphism \non formula_8 in Split(C) is formula_9, rather than\nthe identity on formula_10.\n\nThe category C embeds fully and faithfully in Split(C). In Split(C) every idempotent splits, and Split(C) is the universal category with this property.\nThe Karoubi envelope of a category C can therefore be considered as the \"completion\" of C which splits idempotents.\n\nThe Karoubi envelope of a category C can equivalently be defined as the full subcategory of formula_11 (the presheaves over C) of retracts of representable functors. The category of presheaves on C is equivalent to the category of presheaves on Split(C).\n\nAn automorphism in Split(C) is of the form formula_12, with inverse formula_13 satisfying:\n\nIf the first equation is relaxed to just have formula_17, then \"f\" is a partial automorphism (with inverse \"g\"). A (partial) involution in Split(C) is a self-inverse (partial) automorphism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21342805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21342805", "title": "Kiberpipa", "text": "Kiberpipa\n\nKiberpipa () was a hackerspace in Ljubljana, Slovenia, established in 2001 as a part of the K6/4 Institute. After a breakup with the parent organization and moving to a different location in 2013 it ceased most operations in 2015.\n\nThe hackerspace operated as a cultural centre, computer laboratory and Internet café (with free wireless access) at Kersnikova 4, Ljubljana. Kiberpipa engaged primarily in open source programming, electronic art and the recycling of computer devices. Between 2005 and 2013 it also hosted a small living computer museum.\n\nThe mostly volunteer team in the hackerspace organised workshops, lectures, and entertainment and information events, with around 150 events yearly at the height of its activity.\n\nIn 2013, the Student Organization of University of Ljubljana, the owner of the building where Kiberpipa originally operated, decided to re-purpose the building as a restaurant and a parking garage. After failing to negotiate a new position within the organization, Kiberpipa team opted to continue operating independently of the Student Organization and moved to a new location. In the same year, the Student Organization opened its own hackerspace Rampa.\n\nIn 2014, Kiberpipa re-opened at a new location at Gosposvetska 2 using volunteer work and donations. It continued to organize lectures and open source software-related events at the new location until closure in 2015. In 2015 a web server malfunction also resulted in the loss of the Kiberpipa website and archived content.\n\nKiberpipa co-operated with other organizations in Slovenia, e.g. the Slo-Tech and 3delavnica teams, regional multimedia centres (including Ljudmila - Ljubljana Digital Media Lab, KIBLA Multimedia Centre) and organizations abroad (Mama New Media Centre in Zagreb, HackLab in Pula for example).\n\nKiberpipa organised the bi-annual HAIP Festival (Hack/Act/Interact/Progress Festival).\n\nKiberpipa was a member of the m3c Multimedia Centres Network of Slovenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "12941444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12941444", "title": "Local flatness", "text": "Local flatness\n\nIn topology, a branch of mathematics, local flatness is a property of a submanifold in a topological manifold of larger dimension. In the category of topological manifolds, locally flat submanifolds play a role similar to that of embedded submanifolds in the category of smooth manifolds. Local flatness and the topology of ridge networks is of importance in the study of crumpled structures with importance in materials processing and mechanical engineering.\n\nSuppose a \"d\" dimensional manifold \"N\" is embedded into an \"n\" dimensional manifold \"M\" (where \"d\" < \"n\"). If formula_1 we say \"N\" is locally flat at \"x\" if there is a neighborhood formula_2 of \"x\" such that the topological pair formula_3 is homeomorphic to the pair formula_4, with a standard inclusion of formula_5 as a subspace of formula_6. That is, there exists a homeomorphism formula_7 such that the image of formula_8 coincides with formula_5.\n\nThe above definition assumes that, if \"M\" has a boundary, \"x\" is not a boundary point of \"M\". If \"x\" is a point on the boundary of \"M\" then the definition is modified as follows. We say that \"N\" is locally flat at a boundary point \"x\" of \"M\" if there is a neighborhood formula_10 of \"x\" such that the topological pair formula_3 is homeomorphic to the pair formula_12, where formula_13 is a standard half-space and formula_5 is included as a standard subspace of its boundary. In more detail, we can set \nformula_15 and formula_16.\n\nWe call \"N\" locally flat in \"M\" if \"N\" is locally flat at every point. Similarly, a map formula_17 is called locally flat, even if it is not an embedding, if every \"x\" in \"N\" has a neighborhood \"U\" whose image formula_18 is locally flat in \"M\".\n\nLocal flatness of an embedding implies strong properties not shared by all embeddings. Brown (1962) proved that if \"d\" = \"n\" − 1, then \"N\" is collared; that is, it has a neighborhood which is homeomorphic to \"N\" × [0,1] with \"N\" itself corresponding to \"N\" × 1/2 (if \"N\" is in the interior of \"M\") or \"N\" × 0 (if \"N\" is in the boundary of \"M\").\n\n"}
{"id": "39310227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39310227", "title": "Low-information rationality", "text": "Low-information rationality\n\nLow information rationality is a social theory that states that people are information consumers with limited benefits and time for processing and understanding information. Due to the limited benefits and time individuals have for learning new information, individuals use various shortcuts and heuristics to understand information quicker. Simply put, it does not make sense for the average individual to develop in depth understandings of most issues. The theory is often used to explain the limited understanding of politics and scientific technologies by the general public.\n\nThe concept of low-information rationality is based on the assumption that human beings are cognitive misers and minimize the economic costs of making decisions and forming attitudes. Most citizens will therefore not bother to develop an in-depth understanding of political or scientific issues, which would require significant time and effort. Rather, they collect only as much information as they think is necessary to make any given decision.\n\nThe reason this theory comes about in today's age is due to vast increase in amount of information that each of us is exposed to through the internet, smart phones, and TV. Therefore, these patterns of information processing make perfect sense for citizens who have to deal with thousands of pieces of new information every day, and we all use them. We spend less cognitive effort in buying toothpaste than we do when picking a new car. And that difference in information-seeking is largely a function of the costs.\n\nThere are a variety of shortcuts individuals use to process information quickly and more efficiently. This does not mean, however, that these methods always lead to accurate and reliable conclusions. Common shortcuts include, stereotypes, opinions of others, interpersonal influences, news frames, heuristics and political ideology.\n\nAmerican pollster and political scientist Samuel Popkin coined the term \"low-information\" in 1991 when he used the phrase \"low-information signaling\" in his book \"The Reasoning Voter: Communication and Persuasion in Presidential Campaigns.\" Popkin relies on a theory of low information rationality to explain how voters are able to make rational choices between candidates. Voters do this by using information shortcuts that they receive during campaigns, usually using something like a \"drunkard's search.\" Voters use small amounts of personal information to construct a narrative about candidates. Essentially, they ask themselves this: \"Based on what I know about the candidate personally, what is the probability that this presidential candidate was a good governor? What is the probability that he will be a good president?\" Popkin's analysis is based on one main premise: voters use low information rationality gained in their daily lives, through the media and through personal interactions, to evaluate candidates and facilitate electoral choices.\n\nThe science Literacy/knowledge deficit model states that the public is willing and able to process information if it is available. Therefore, a lack of public support or participation is caused by a lack of information available to the public.\n\nAs mentioned above, scientists who use the knowledge deficit model face great difficulty conveying information to the lay public when overwhelming amount of psychology and political science studies show that the public uses the low information rationality model. Some examples of this are in the cutting-edge sciences of nanotechnology and biotechnology.\n\nFor issues such as agricultural biotechnology, for example, where developing an in-depth understanding would require significant efforts on the part of ordinary citizens, the pay-offs in terms of being able to make informed policy judgments may simply not be enough. As a result, it makes perfect sense for citizens to rely on shortcuts such as opinions of others when forming their own opinions and trying to make sense of different policy positions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "934323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=934323", "title": "Lèse-majesté", "text": "Lèse-majesté\n\nLèse-majesté ( or ; also lese-majesty, lese majesty or leze majesty) is the crime of violating majesty, an offence against the dignity of a reigning sovereign or against a state.\n\nThis behaviour was first classified as a criminal offence against the dignity of the Roman Republic of Ancient Rome. In the Dominate, or Late Empire period, the emperors eliminated the Republican trappings of their predecessors and began to identify the state with their person. Although legally the \"princeps civitatis\" (his official title, meaning, roughly, 'first citizen') could never become a sovereign because the republic was never officially abolished, emperors were deified as divus, first posthumously but by the Dominate period while reigning. Deified emperors enjoyed the same legal protection that was accorded to the divinities of the state cult; by the time it was replaced by Christianity, what was in all but name a monarchical tradition had already become well-established.\n\nNarrower conceptions of offences against Majesty as offences against the crown predominated in the European kingdoms that emerged in the early medieval period. In feudal Europe, some crimes were classified as lèse-majesté even if they were not intentionally directed against the crown. An example is counterfeiting, so classified because coins bore the monarch's effigy and/or coat of arms.\n\nWith the disappearance of absolute monarchy in Europe, lèse-majesté came to be viewed as less of a crime. However, certain malicious acts that would have once been classified as the crime of lèse-majesté could still be prosecuted as treason. Future republics that emerged as great powers generally still classified as a crime any offence against the highest representatives of the state. These laws are still applied as well in monarchies outside of Europe, such as modern Thailand and Cambodia.\n\nIn Italy, Switzerland, and Poland it is illegal to insult foreign heads of state publicly. This was also the case in Germany until 2017.\n\nOn 25 January 2017, the German Justice Minister Heiko Maas announced a decision by the Cabinet to remove the law from the German criminal code, effective January 1, 2018. The decision came several months after Chancellor Angela Merkel announced in April 2016 a controversial decision to honor the Turkish government's request to prosecute a German comedian for reading an obscene poem about Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on late-night television. In that announcement, Merkel also stated the intention to consider repeal of the little-known law. The prosecution was dropped in November 2016. \n\n\nIn Denmark, the monarch is protected by the usual libel paragraph (§ 267 of the penal code which allows for up to four months of imprisonment), but §115 allows for doubling of the usual punishment when the regent is target of the libel. When a queen consort, queen dowager or the crown prince is the target, the punishment may be increased by 50%. There are no historical records of §115 having ever been used, but in March 2011, Greenpeace activists who unfurled a banner at a dinner at the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference were charged under this section. They received minor sentences for other crimes, but were acquitted of the charge relating to the monarch.\n\nInsulting a country, foreign head of state, its representatives or flag can be punished by up to two years of imprisonment according to the 95th article of the penal code. For a very serious breach the time can be extended to 6 years.\n\nFor insulting the king, the heiress apparent, and their relatives, an offender may receive up to five years' imprisonment plus a fine.\n\nIn total 18 prosecutions were brought under the law between 2000 and 2012, half of which resulted in convictions.\n\nIn October 2007, a 47-year-old man was sentenced to one week's imprisonment and fined €400 for, amongst other things, lèse-majesté in the Netherlands when he called Queen Beatrix a \"whore\" and told a police officer that he would have anal sex with her because \"she would like it\".\n\nIn July 2016, a 44-year-old man was sentenced to 30 days in jail for 'intentionally insulting' King Willem-Alexander, accusing him of being a murderer, thief and rapist.\n\nThe Spanish satirical magazine \"El Jueves\" was fined for violation of Spain's lèse-majesté laws after publishing an issue with a caricature of the then-Prince of Asturias and his wife engaging in sexual intercourse on the cover in 2007.\n\nIn January 2009 there was a diplomatic incident between Australia and Kuwait over an Australian woman being held for allegedly insulting the Emir of Kuwait during a fracas with Kuwaiti immigration authorities.\n\nIn September 2012, pro-reform activists faced charges of lèse-majesté following protests in two locations in Jordan. The protests turned violent after the activists reportedly chanted slogans against the Jordanian regime and insulted King Abdullah II and the Royal Court.\n\nIn August 2014, Mohammad Saeed Baker, a member of the Muslim Brotherhood's shura council, was arrested in Jordan and sentenced to six months in prison for lèse-majesté. He was released in February 2015.\n\nUnder the counterterrorism law that took effect in 2014, actions that \"threaten Saudi Arabia’s unity, disturb public order, or defame the reputation of the state or the king\" are considered acts of terrorism. The offense may carry harsh corporal punishment, including public lashings, lengthy jail terms and even death, the sentences may be determined on a per case basis owing to the arbitrary nature of the Saudi legal system.\n\nMoroccans are routinely prosecuted for statements deemed offensive to the King. The minimum penalty for such a statement is one year's imprisonment if the statement is made in private (i.e. not broadcast), and three years' imprisonment if it is made in public. In both cases, the maximum is 5 years.\n\nThe cases of Yassine Belassal and Nasser Ahmed (a 95-year-old who died in jail after being convicted of lèse-majesté), and the Fouad Mourtada Affair, revived the debate on these laws and their applications. In 2008, an 18-year-old was charged with \"breach of due respect to the king\" for writing \"God, Homeland, Barça\" on a school board, in reference to his favorite football club and satirising the national motto (\"God, Homeland, King\").\n\nIn February 2012, 18-year-old Walid Bahomane was convicted for posting two mild cartoons of the king on Facebook. The procès-verbal cites two Facebook pages and a computer being seized as evidence. Walid was officially prosecuted for \"touching the sacralities\".\n\nIn February 2018, the Parliament of Cambodia voted to make insulting any monarch punishable with up to one to five years in prison with a fine of 2 to 10 million riels.\n\nMalaysia uses the sedition law to charge people for allegedly insulting the royal institution. In 2013, Melissa Gooi and 4 other friends were detained for allegedly insulting the royal institution. In 2014, Ali Abd Jalil were detained and served 22 days in prison for insulting the royal family of Johor and Sultan of Selangor. A prison sentenced was passed in Johor for attacking the royal family to Muhammad Amirul Azwan Mohd Shakri.\n\nThailand's criminal code has carried a prohibition against lèse-majesté since 1908. In 1932, when Thailand's monarchy ceased to be absolute and a constitution was adopted, it too included language prohibiting lèse-majesté. The 2016 Constitution of Thailand, and all previous versions since 1932, contain the clause, \"The King shall be enthroned in a position of revered worship and shall not be violated. No person shall expose the King to any sort of accusation or action.\" Thai criminal code elaborates in Article 112: \"Whoever defames, insults or threatens the King, Queen, the Heir-apparent or the Regent, shall be punished with imprisonment of three to fifteen years.\" Missing from the code, however, is a definition of what actions constitute \"defamation\" or \"insult\". From 1990 to 2005, the Thai court system only saw four or five lèse-majesté cases a year. From January 2006 to May 2011, however, more than 400 cases came to trial, an estimated 15 times increase. Observers attribute the increase to increased polarization following the 2006 military coup and sensitivity over the elderly king's declining health. In 2013, the Supreme Court of Thailand ruled in case no. 6374/2556 that Article 112 of the Penal Code protects the past kings as well as the present one. Criticisms or comments which tarnish past kings or the monarchy is punishable by law. However, scholars raised doubts as to how far back lèse-majesté will be applied as the present Thai monarchy (Chakri Dynasty) dates back more than 200 years while other monarchies which ruled Siam can be traced back almost 800 years.\n\nNeither the king nor any member of the royal family has ever personally filed any charges under this law. In fact, during his birthday speech in 2005, King Bhumibol Adulyadej encouraged criticism: \"Actually, I must also be criticized. I am not afraid if the criticism concerns what I do wrong, because then I know.\" He later added, \"But the King \"can\" do wrong\", in reference to those he was appealing to not to overlook his human nature.\n\nUnder the NCPO junta which overthrew the democratic regime in May 2014, charges of lèse-majesté have increased significantly, especially against the opponents of the junta. Lèse-majesté is now seeing increasing use as a tool to stifle free speech and dissent in the country. Even the parents of the former princess Srirasmi Suwadee as well as her uncle have been charged with lèse-majesté. On March 9, 2015, a court sentenced her father Apiruj Suwadee and mother Wanthanee for insulting the royal family and lodging a malicious claim. They pleaded guilty to the offenses named and were sentenced to two-and-a-half years in prison. On June 9, 2017 in Bangkok a 33-year-old Thai man by the first name of Wichai was given 35 years imprisonment for posting 10 Facebook photos and comments about the Thai royalty. This sentence was reduced from initial 70 years following a guilty plea made after a year in jail before the trial.\n\nOn June 2017 the United Nations has called on Thailand to amend its law on lèse-majesté.\n\nLaws against offending the emperor were in place between 1880 and 1947, when the law was abolished, during the Allied occupation. The last person to be convicted of the crime was Shōtarō Matsushima, a factory worker and member of the Japanese Communist Party. During a 1946 protest against food shortages in front of the Imperial Palace, during which the protesters demanded entry into the palace kitchens which were said to be stocked with staple foods, Matsushima wielded a placard reading, on the one side, \"Imperial Edict: The Emperor system has been preserved. I, the Emperor, have eaten to my heart's content, but you, my subjects, should starve to death! Signed, (Imperial Seal)\". The other side demanded that the Emperor give a public accounting of the food shortages. Matsushima was arrested and charged with impairing the dignity of the Emperor. The Allied occupation authorities intervened and had the charges reduced to libel. Matsushima was convicted and sentenced to eight months in prison, but was pardoned immediately under an Imperial amnesty commemorating the new Constitution.\n\nFollowing the 2005 Penal Code (introduced in 2015), lèse majesté is no longer considered a criminal offense.\n\nThe 1902 Penal Code, article 101, provided a fine or up to five years of prison for lèse majesté. According to article 103, prosecution had to be ordered or accepted by the King. Article 101 stated: \"If any defamation is exercised against the King or the Regent, the guilty is punished with a fine or up to five years of prison.\"\n\nSection 51 of the Criminal Justice and Licensing (Scotland) Act 2010 abolished the common law criminal offences of sedition and \"leasing-making\". The latter offence, also known as \"lease making\", was considered an offence of lèse-majesté or making remarks critical of the monarch of the United Kingdom. The final prosecution for this offence had occurred in 1715.\n\n"}
{"id": "54139490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54139490", "title": "Media pluralism", "text": "Media pluralism\n\nMedia pluralism defines the state of having a plurality of voices, opinions and analyses on media system (internal pluralism) or the coexistence of different and diverse types of medias and media support (external pluralism).\n\nMedia pluralism is often recognized by international organizations and non-governmental organizations as being an essential part of a democratic state, Reporters Without Borders considers \"access to a plurality of editorial lines and analyses [as] essential for citizens to be able to confront ideas, to make their own informed choices and to conduct their life freely\".\n\nExpanded access to the Internet and the digital switch-over has enabled an increased availability of media content, largely through sharing and user-generated content on social media, in addition to the digital channels to which individuals have access across television and radio. The diversity of content is however accompanied by what Hallin and Mancini call polarized pluralism in a media system.\n\nAccording to the World Trends Report, a sharper division in the way we use news is coming up due to the interaction between consumption habits, changing economic models and technical systems. This signifies that even if multiple kinds of information and programming are available, each segmented group may only ingest one branch of the whole. The increase of Internet penetration and reliance on online sources for news is thought of to producing siloed debates.\n\nAt the infrastructural level, ‘zero rating’— in which Internet or mobile service providers allow users to access specific content or applications without counting towards the user’s data ‘cap’— expands in parallel to mobile uptakes, particularly in emerging countries. Traditional business models for the news media continue to be disrupted, leading to vertical and horizontal concentration and introduction of new types of ownership. Challenges to media funding introduce new types of economic models such as pay-walls and crowd-funding initiatives.\n\nGender is a part of media pluralism and is characterized by the under-representation of women in the media workforce, in decision-making and in media content. People with disabilities are also under-represented in the media system.\n\n\nJakubowicz focuses on \"provisions\" or \"supply\" of media content and the impact of available information in a society. Evaluations of media pluralism have commonly explored the number of media outlets available; how comprehensively media outlets represent different groups and interests in society; and who owns or is able to influence the media. The explosion of access to media through the Internet, the increasingly common practice for users to consume information across a variety of platforms, and the rise of algorithmic profiling bring to the fore questions about users and how they access—or are shielded from accessing—a plurality of sources.\n\nAccess to information, as the ability for an individual to seek, receive and impart information effectively, is an aspect of media pluralism. It can include or allow \"scientific, indigenous, and traditional knowledge; freedom of information, building of open knowledge resources, including open Internet and open standards, and open access and availability of data; preservation of digital heritage; respect for cultural and linguistic diversity, such as fostering access to local content in accessible languages; quality education for all, including lifelong and e-learning; diffusion of new media and information literacy and skills, and social inclusion online, including addressing inequalities based on skills, education, gender, age, race, ethnicity, and accessibility by those with disabilities; and the development of connectivity and affordable ICTs, including mobile, the Internet, and broadband infrastructures\".\n\nMichael Buckland defines six types of barriers that have to be overcome in order for access to information to be achieved: identification of the source, availability of the source, price of the user, cost to the provider, cognitive access, acceptability. While “access to information”, “right to information”, “right to know” and “freedom of information” are sometimes used as synonyms, the diverse terminology does highlight particular (albeit related) dimensions of the issue.\nAccording to the World Trends Report, access to all types of media has increased between 2012 and 2017, but this is especially true for access to the Internet. International commitments such as the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the work of the Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development and the Internet Governance Forum’s intersessional work on ‘Connecting the Next Billion’ testify of this.\n\nAccording to the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), by the end of 2017, an estimated 48 per cent of individuals regularly connect to the internet, up from 34 per cent in 2012. Despite the significant increase in absolute numbers, however, in the same period the annual growth rate of Internet users has slowed down, with five per cent annual growth in 2017, dropping from a 10 per cent growth rate in 2012.\n\nMobile Internet connectivity has an impact in expanding access. The number of unique mobile cellular subscriptions increased from 3.89 billion in 2012 to 4.83 billion in 2016, two-thirds of the world’s population, with more than half of subscriptions located in Asia and the Pacific. The number of subscriptions is predicted to rise to 5.69 billion users in 2020. As of 2016, almost 60 per cent of the world’s population had access to a 4G broadband cellular network, up from almost 50 per cent in 2015 and 11 per cent in 2012. Unlike the open web affords explorations beyond a user’s immediate range of interests, Mobile Internet has the singularity of creating siloed information spaces predisposing mobile users to access only a limited portion of the available information. Censorship and surveillance are also factors of media pluralism as they cause different experiences for users accessing the Internet in different States.\n\nThe limits that users face on accessing information via mobile applications coincide with a broader process of fragmentation of the Internet. Zero-rating, the practice of internet providers allowing users free connectivity to access specific content or applications for free, has offered some opportunities for individuals to surmount economic hurdles, but has also been accused by its critics as creating a ‘two-tiered’ internet. To address the issues with zero-rating, an alternative model has emerged in the concept of ‘equal rating’ and is being tested in experiments by Mozilla and Orange in Africa. Equal rating prevents prioritization of one type of content and zero-rates all content up to a specified data cap. Some countries in the region had a handful of plans to choose from (across all mobile network operators) while others, such as Colombia, offered as many as 30 pre-paid and 34 post-paid plans.\n\nA study led by the Alliance for Affordable Internet (A4AI) of eight countries in the Global South found that zero-rated data plans exist in every country, although there is a great range in the frequency with which they are offered and actually used in each. Across the 181 plans examined, 13 per cent were offering zero-rated services. Another study, covering Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa, found Facebook’s Free Basics and Wikipedia Zero to be the most commonly zero-rated content.\n\nIn Western Europe and North America, the primacy of television as a main source of information is being challenged by the internet, while in other regions, such as Africa, television is gaining greater audience share than radio, which has historically been the most widely accessed media platform. In the Arab region, geopolitical interests has contributed to the growing reach of state-owned global news broadcasters and has determined the launching of Arabic-language channels.\n\nAge plays a profound role in determining the balance between radio, television and the Internet as the leading source of news. According to the 2017 Reuters Institute Digital News Report, in 36 countries and territories surveyed, 51 per cent of adults 55 years and older consider television as their main news source, compared to only 24 per cent of respondents between 18 and 24. The pattern is reversed when it comes to online media, chosen by 64 per cent of users between 18 and 24 as their primary source, but only by 28 per cent of users 55 and older. According to the Arab Youth Survey, in 2016, 45 per cent of the young people interviewed considered social media as a major source of news.\n\nDigital transition is the process in which older analog television broadcasting is converted to and replaced by digital television.The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) has been mapping the progress in digital switchovers across the globe. According to them, the switch from analogue television to digital television has been completed in 56 countries in 2017, and was ongoing in 68, steadily increasing the range of channels to which individuals have access.\n\n\n\n\nThe Internet has challenged the press as an alternative source of information and opinion but has also provided a new platform for newspaper organizations to reach new audiences. Between 2012 and 2016, print newspaper circulation continued to fall in almost all regions, with the exception of Asia and the Pacific, where the dramatic increase in sales in a few select countries has offset falls in historically strong Asian markets such as Japan and the Republic of Korea. Between 2012 and 2016, India’s print circulation grew by 89 per cent. As many newspapers make the transition to online platforms, revenues from digital subscriptions and digital advertising have been growing significantly. How to capture more of this growth remains a pressing challenge for newspapers.\n\nPrint media is continuously affected by changing trends in advertising: in 2012 its share of total news media revenues globally dropped below 50 per cent and continued falling to 38 per cent in 2016. Newspapers transition to online platforms increase the volume of revenues from digital subscriptions and digital advertising. The main challenge that newspapers face, according to Cecilia Campbell, is how to capture more of the digital subscriptions and advertising growth.\n\nMedia systems are built from a variety of economic models including mixes of market, public service, community and state entities. A plurality of media owners and economic models serves as an essential element of external pluralism, guaranteed by competition in the market. Nonprofit public service and community media can help achieve internal pluralism by incorporating social and cultural diversity in the content they produce. Community media, drawing especially on volunteers, can be a unique source of local dialogue and information exchange. The lack of adaption and of efficient economic strategies from traditional media has led to proliferation of privately owned media. This involves a diversification of newspapers but may also affects quality journalism and media independence, especially with the financial contributions from \"backers\".\n\nIn 2012, the Arab States Broadcasting Union (ASBU) counted 1,230 television stations broadcasting via Arab and international satellites, of which 133 were state-owned and 1,097 private. The reduction of government owned channels in the media sector is paralleled by a growth in outlets with a sectarian agenda. In some countries, private media outlets often maintain close ties to governments or individual politicians , while media houses owned by politically non-aligned individuals have struggled to survive, often in the face of advertising boycotts by state agencies. According to the European Broadcasting Union (EBU), public service broadcasting tend to struggle with fundings and to decline since 2012.\n\nMedia privatization and the lessening of the State dominance over media content is a global trend, according to the World Trends Report.\n\n\nCross-ownership is a method of reinforcing business relationships by owning stock in the companies with which a given company does business. Drawing the line between the media and other industries is a challenge for new types of cross-ownership. The acquisition of the Washington Post by the founder of online retailer Amazon raised concerns about the newspaper independence, the newspaper has significantly increased its standing in the online media—and print—and introduced significant innovations.\n\nMost common in isolated, rural or disadvantaged areas community-centered media ownership is also mostly pertaining to radio. Through this model, not-for-profit media outlets are run and managed by the communities. They are also characterized as \"independent and governed by and in the service of the communities they serve\" and represent what UNESCO calls the \"third pillar\" of the media with commercial and public broadcasters.\n\nOne of the challenges to traditional media is advertisement, which has evolved since 2010. According to the World Trends Report, between 2012 and 2016, revenues from advertisement in print have decreased by 27 percent In 2012, print advertising’s share of total news advertising revenue was 48 per cent, falling to 38 per cent by 2016. Circulation of digital versions of traditional newspapers and digital advertisements have grown significantly, but have not been sufficient to offset losses in print. Once the transitioning phase from old media to digital media is over, revenues from digital advertisement tend to increase. This phenomenon pushed advertisers to pay premium prices to quality publications.\n\nTauel Harper considers that with the rise of big data, media have been seen to lose the \"advertising subsidy\" for journalistic content, through which \"private\" advertising paid for \"public journalism\". Big data analytics place their ads in front of individual media consumers regardless of the particular content they are consuming. This includes political advertising, which sometimes serves to bypass the significance of news in election contexts.\n\nThe New York Times in the United States, or the Mail & Guardian in South Africa use extensions or variations of existing schemes such as pay-walls created by publications considered to be of particularly high quality or addressing a particular niche.\n\nThe Guardian uses Wikipedia's borrowed strategy of frequently asking readers for donations in support to quality journalism or free content.\n\nIn various sectors, the number of crowdfunded journalism projects has increased significantly. While in 2012, 88 projects received funding through the platform, in 2015, the number of projects rose to 173, scattered across 60 countries (even if North America continues to register the majority of funded projects). The funds collected grew from $1.1 million in 2012 to $1.9 million in 2015.\n\nEconomic models also depend on larger structural reconfiguration of the market. While in 2012 advertising revenues from mobile represented a tiny portion of the market in the United States, in 2016 they surpassed revenues from all other platforms.\n\nMedia actors have also started testing new formats and technologies of journalism, experimenting with how virtual reality or gaming can facilitate immersive experiences of relatively distant events. In 2015 for example, the New York Times opened its Virtual Reality Lab, seeking to provide original perspectives on issues ranging from the war in Iraq, to the conflict in South Sudan, to the thinning of the ice cap in Antarctica. The Virtual Reality app proved the most downloaded in the history of interactive applications launched by the paper. Awareness raising video games have also been developed such as Games for Social Change, which involve students.\n\nAccording to Cisco Systems, in 2016 an average of 96,000 petabytes was transferred monthly over the Internet, more than twice as many as in 2012. In 2016, the number of active websites surpassed 1 billion, up from approximately 700 million in 2012.\n\nReaching two billion daily active users in June 2017, Facebook has emerged as the most popular social media platform globally. Other social media platforms are also dominant at the regional level such as: Twitter in Japan, Naver in the Republic of Korea, Instagram (owned by Facebook) and LinkedIn (owned by Microsoft) in Africa, VKontakte (VK) and Odnoklassniki in Russia and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, WeChat and QQ in China.\n\nHowever, a concentration phenomenon is occurring globally giving the dominance to a few online platforms that become popular for some unique features they provide, most commonly for the added privacy they offer users through disappearing messages or end-to-end encryption (e.g. WhatsApp, Snapchat, Signal, and Telegram), but they have tended to occupy niches and to facilitate the exchanges of information that remain rather invisible to larger audiences.\n\nProduction of freely accessible information has been increasing since 2012. In January 2017, Wikipedia had more than 43 million articles, almost twice as many as in January 2012. This corresponded to a progressive diversification of content and increase in contributions in languages other than English. In 2017, less than 12 per cent of Wikipedia content was in English, down from 18 per cent in 2012. Graham, Straumann, and Hogan say that increase in the availability and diversity of content has not radically changed the structures and processes for the production of knowledge. For example, while content on Africa has dramatically increased, a significant portion of this content has continued to be produced by contributors operating from North America and Europe, rather than from Africa itself.\n\nThe proliferation of online sources represents a vector leading to an increase in pluralism but algorithms used by social networking platforms and search engines to provide users with a personalized experience based on their individual preferences represent a challenge to pluralism, restricting exposure to differing viewpoints and news feed. This is commonly referred to as \"eco-chambers\" and \"filter-bubbles\".\n\nWith the help of algorithms, filter bubbles influence users choices and perception of reality by giving the impression that a particular point of view or representation is widely shared. Following the 2016 referendum of membership of the European Union in the United Kingdom and the United States presidential elections, this gained attention as many individuals confessed their surprise at results that seemed very distant from their expectations. The range of pluralism is influenced by the personalized individualization of the services and the way it diminishes choice.\n\nResearch on echo chambers from Flaxman, Goel, and Rao, Pariser, and Grömping suggest that use of social media and search engines tends to increase ideological distance among individuals.\n\nComparisons between online and off-line segregation have indicated how segregation tends to be higher in face-to-face interactions with neighbors, co-workers, or family members, and reviews of existing research have indicated how available empirical evidence does not support the most pessimistic views about polarization. A study conducted by researchers from Facebook and the University of Michigan, for example, has suggested that individuals’ own choices drive algorithmic filtering, limiting exposure to a range of content. While algorithms may not be causing polarization, they could amplify it, representing a significant component of the new information landscape.\n\nThe term \"fake news\" gained importance with the electoral context in Western Europe and North America. It is determined by fraudulent content in news format and its velocity. According to Bounegru, Gray, Venturini and Mauri, fake news is when a deliberate lie \"is picked up by dozens of other blogs, retransmitted by hundreds of websites, cross-posted over thousands of social media accounts and read by hundreds of thousands\" that it then effectively becomes \"fake news\".\n\nThe evolving nature of online business models encourages the production of information that is \"click-worthy\" independently of its accuracy.\n\nThe nature of trust depends on the assumptions that non-institutional forms of communication are freer from power and more able to report information that mainstream media are perceived as unable or unwilling to reveal. Declines in confidence in much traditional media and expert knowledge have created fertile grounds for alternative, and often obscure sources of information to appear as authoritative and credible. This ultimately leaves users confused about basic facts.\n\nInternet companies with threatened credibility tend to develop new responses to limit fake news and reduce financial incentives for its proliferation.\n\nThe media covering of marginalized groups such as refugees tend to be influenced by and influence the political and social perceptions. While a large proportion of the European press initially articulated a sympathetic and empathetic response towards the humanitarian crisis caused by the conflict in Syria, according to Georgiou and Zaborowski, this sentiment was gradually replaced by suspicion and, in some cases, hostility towards refugees and migrants. Both the quality and tabloid press tended to employ ‘established, stereotyped narratives’ of security threats and economic costs. Gábor and Messing consider that a portion of the press, especially in Central and Eastern Europe, turned to systematic hostility towards migrants and refugees.\n\nGate-keeping mechanisms continue to influence not only what is being communicated, but also who is given the opportunity to frame events. Citizens’ voices have indeed increased in new stories, individuals included in these stories tend to be treated, not as agents capable of asserting their world views and their interpretation of events, but rather as vox-pol, employed to add color to a narrative. Harlow and Johnson consider that in the case of protests, demonstrations or conflicts, established institutions and elites tend to prevail as news sources. Although novel media operations and actors have had a smaller impact on mainstream reporting, they have been instrumental in animating intermediate spaces, which aggregate content in ways that can reach broader audiences.\n\nAs users increasingly move from broadcast to online media to access information, the same large media institutions tend to predominate online spaces, even if filtered and mediated in much of their social media presence. A decade later, the majority of the most visited and viewed news websites remain traditional media outlets (CNN, New York Times, the Guardian, Washington Post, BBC), although news aggregation websites such as Reddit and Google News have emerged among the top five sites with the highest web traffic.\n\nAuthors Frau-Meigs, Velez, and Michel (2017) and Frau-Meigs and Torrent (2009) consider diversity in media can also be enhanced by media and information literacy (MIL). They argue that it can be useful in understanding the consequences of algorithms on modes of diffusion. Many types of MIL exist from information literacy, media literacy, news literacy, advertising literacy, digital literacy, media education, to digital and media literacy. A few initiatives already exist in the field:\n\n\n\nTuchman, Daniels, and Benoit (1978) use the term \"symbolic annihilation\" (originally credited to George Gerbner) to describe women's relationship to and visibility in mass media. According to the Global Media Monitoring Project, women’s visibility in newspaper, television and radio increased by only seven percentage points between 1995 (17 per cent) and 2015 (24 per cent).\n\nRegional and international organizations also recognize gender and media pluralism as often being problematic:\n\n\nAccording to Byerly, in many countries, as many women as men are graduating from media, journalism and communication degree programmes and entering the industry. In 1995, when the first substantial analysis of women media professionals across 43 nations was produced, women constituted around 40 per cent of the media workforce. A Global Media Monitoring Project (GMMP) 2015 report found that 31 per cent of stories on politics and 39 per cent of stories about the economy have female by-lines. Researchers from the US, Harp, Bachmann, and Loke, show that while women journalists are writing on a wider range of topics, they are still a minority of columnist at the major dailies. In terms of presenting on broadcast news, the 2015 GMMP found that the global proportion of women was 49 per cent, the same as in 2000 and two percentage points below the 1995 finding. Since 2005, the number of women working as reporters in broadcast news has dropped by four percentage points in television and radio.\n\nCloser analysis shows that women were more numerous on television (57 per cent), for example, and less numerous on radio (41 per cent), where ‘looks’ are obviously far less important. The majority of younger presenters were women, but that trend reversed for older presenters, nearly all of whom were men. There were almost no women reporters recorded as older than 65. Part of this is likely due to recent improvements that have allowed more young women to enter the field, but it could also relate to the differences in how aging is perceived between men and women, as well as limitations in career advancement.\n\nThe Women’s Media Center (WMC) 2017 report on women and the media in the USA shows that at 20 of the nation’s top news outlets, women produced 37.7 per cent of news reports, an increase of 0.4 percentage points compared to 2016. In broadcast news, women’s presence as anchors, reporters and field journalists actually declined by nearly seven percentage points between 2015 and 2016.\n\nThe Global Report on the Status of Women in the News Media found that women in media occupied just over a quarter of the jobs in top management (27 per cent) and governance (26 per cent) positions. The regions that fared best for women representation were Central (33 per cent) and Eastern Europe (43 per cent) and the Nordic countries (36 per cent). Elsewhere, women comprised only about a fifth of governance positions and held less than 10 per cent of top management jobs in Asia and the Pacific region. A major European project funded by the European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE) found very similar findings: men held most of the senior management positions and board membership in 99 media houses across the European Union.\n\nIn the Asia and Pacific region, a joint report by the UNESCO Office in Bangkok, UN Women and the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) Asia Pacific found women were significantly under-represented in decision-making roles. In Southern Africa, a Gender Links study found that women constitute 40 per cent of media employees and 34 per cent of media managers. The study also revealed that sexual harassment remains a key issue for women: just under 20 per cent of women media professionals said that they had personal experience of sexual harassment and the majority of those women said that the perpetrator was a senior colleague.\n\nThe 2015 GMMP made a comparison across 20 years of women's representation in the media and assessed that between 1995 (17 percent) and 2015 (24 percent), female appearances in television, radio and print rose by only seven percentage points. Sarah Macharia highlights the fact that where women most often appear in media, it is when they speak from personal experience (representing 38 per cent), while only 20 per cent of spokespersons and 19 per cent of experts featured in stories are women. Women featured in stories as 32 per cent of experts interviewed in North America, followed by the Caribbean (29 per cent) and Latin America (27 per cent). In the southern African region, Gender Links’ 2016 Gender and Media Progress Study covered 14 countries and found that women’s views and voices accounted for a mere 20 per cent of news sources across Southern Africa media.\n\n"}
{"id": "58112566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58112566", "title": "Mothers of Invention (podcast)", "text": "Mothers of Invention (podcast)\n\nMothers of Invention is a podcast hosted by former President of Ireland Mary Robinson, and comedian Maeve Higgins. It is produced by Doc Society.\n\nThe six-episode podcast focuses on the intersection between climate change and feminism, exploring the idea that climate change is a man-made problem with a feminist solution. Each episode of the podcast features a female guest who has been fighting for climate justice. The first guest was Tessa Khan, a Bangladeshi-Australian lawyer who specialises in climate change litigation. Subsequent guests include Yvette Abrahams, a former anti-apartheid activist who now works as a Commissioner for Gender Equality in South Africa; Sara Tekola, a Black Lives Matter activist undertaking a PhD in climate science, and Rachelle Strauss, founder of Zero Waste Week.\n\nThe podcast debuted on 23 July 2018. \n"}
{"id": "19529589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19529589", "title": "Not In Our Town", "text": "Not In Our Town\n\nNot In Our Town is a project that uses documentary film, new media, and organizing to stop hate, address bullying, and build safe, inclusive communities. Not In Our Town is the primary program of The Working Group, an Oakland, California-based nonprofit media production company founded in 1988.\n\nThe Not In Our Town project began in 1995 with a national PBS special that told the story of how citizens of Billings, Montana joined forces to respond to hate crimes in their town. The program set a new standard for television impact, launching screenings and town hall meetings in hundreds of communities nationwide. The first campaign mobilized faith-based organizations, non-profits, law enforcement agencies, educators, public TV stations, labor representatives and many other stakeholders to organize anti-hate actions in local communities.\n\nThe project laid the groundwork for many subsequent films. For the past 20 years, Not In Our Town has documented hundreds of community response and proactive efforts to prevent hate and address intolerance. In addition to film making, Not In Our Town plays a direct role with schools and communities by providing hands-on support, tools, training, and coaching.\n\nThe original Not In Our Town website was hosted by PBS. In 2010, Not In Our Town expanded online offerings at NIOT.org, including over 100 short community films, crowd-sourced lessons from local communities, tools and resources, as well as an interactive map. The site is also the digital home of Not In Our School, which has more than 50 streaming school films. Many of the films have guides and lesson plans that are aligned to the Common Core State Standards. NIOT.org also features a portal for law enforcement at NIOT.org/COPS.\n\nPBS and public media stations for key partners for Not In Our Town. Not In Our Town has collaborated with other organizations, including the U.S. Department of Justice Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office), the National Parent Teacher Association and Facing History and Ourselves. Their work is used overseas in Russia, Ukraine, Hungary, South Africa, and Northern Ireland.\n\nOver the past two decades, Not In Our Town produced five PBS documentaries, held thousands of community screenings nationwide. In an engagement effort sponsored by PBS and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, Light In the Darkness involved partnerships with 17 public media stations, nearly 20 national organizations and more than 300 community screenings nationwide. Public media stations created local content and Not In Our School resources around the film, including WDET, WUSF-TV Tampa, KQED San Francisco, WQED Pittsburgh, KCPT Kansas City, Cleveland Ideastream, NPR, Nashville Public Television, and KPBS San Diego of the Fronteras network.\n\nPBS and public television films, in reverse chronological order:\n\n‘’Waking in Oak Creek’’ (2014) follows residents in Oak Creek, Wisconsin after six Sikh worshippers are killed by a white supremacist and the local community finds inspiration in the Sikh tradition of forgiveness and faith. Lt. Brian Murphy, shot 15 times in the attack, joins the mayor and police chief as they forge new bonds with the Sikh community. Young temple members, still grieving, emerge as leaders in the quest to end the violence. In the year following the tragedy, thousands gather for vigils and community events to honor the victims and seek connection. Together, a community rocked by hate is awakened and transformed by the Sikh spirit of relentless optimism.\n\n‘’Not In Our Town: Class Actions’’ (2012, 30 min) profiles students and community members who are creating change in the wake of racism, anti-Semitism, and the traumatic consequences of bullying. University of Mississippi students peacefully confront old divisions and the Ku Klux Klan by turning their backs on hate, hundreds gather on the Indiana University campus to light menorah candles after anti-Semitic attacks on campus, and a massive circle of Southern California high school students break the silence about bullying at school with a loud and united chant, \"Not In Our Town.\"\n\n‘’Not In Our Town: Light in the Darkness’’ (2011, 60 min and 27 min versions), follows a community in crisis after the fatal attack of local immigrant resident Marcelo Lucero in Patchogue, New York. Stunned by the violence, diverse community stakeholders openly confront the crime and the divisive \natmosphere, and commit to ongoing actions to prevent future hate crimes and intolerance.\n\n‘’Not In Our Town Northern California: When Hate Happens Here’’ (2005, 60 min), a co-production with [KQED], looks at five Northern California communities dealing with deadly hate violence over a five-year period. Together, the stories reveal that whether the motivation is racism, anti-Semitism, or crimes motivated by gender or sexual orientation, hate requires a joint response. Californians find innovative ways to respond to hate and build community.\n\nNot In Our Town II (1996, 60 min) briefly recaps the Billings story and tells six new stories about people working to create hate-free towns, cities, workplaces and schools. A Klan rally is countered with a diversity celebration; citizens work with police to address hate crimes; young people discuss how hate crimes affect their lives; office workers discover that improved communication skills can ease racial tensions and create a more harmonious workplace; people come together to rebuild burnt churches in the South; and a town finds that preventing hate before it starts is the best solution.\n\n‘’Not In Our Town’’ I (1995, 30 min) is the film that launched the movement. Not In Our Town follows the citizens of Billings, Montana as they join together to respond to a series of hate crimes in their town. White supremacist activities had been on the rise. Racist literature was found around town, skinheads disrupted the services of an African-American church, the home of a Native American family was spray painted with swastikas and racist slurs, and a brick was thrown through the window of a Jewish family's home. The film follows a powerful local force—law enforcement, civic leaders, faith groups, citizen activists and local media outlets—that sent a simple and powerful message to white supremacists, \"Not In Our Town.\" after the film was broadcast in 1995, viewers around the country began to apply this model to their own communities.\n\nMinister and musician Fred Small wrote a song of the same name, published in 1994, telling the same story in a different format. Psychotherapist Janice Cohn wrote a book, Christmas Menorahs, and play, Paper Candles, detailing the Billings story.\n\nMany communities use Not In Our Town campaigns to bring together stakeholders from different aspects of civic life—school, community, law enforcement, media and faith leaders—to address or prevent hate incidents. Bloomington, Illinois was the first Not In Our Town city. Many other cities have passed Not In Our Town proclamations and pledges and sponsored Not In Our Town days or weeks in order to raise the issue of hate and create safe environments for their citizens, including Las Vegas, Nevada, San Francisco, California and San Antonio, Texas. In 2012, Marshalltown, Iowa launched a proactive Not In Our Town Anti-Bullying Campaign.\n\nThe model rests on several core assumptions, namely that cross-constituency engagement gives everyone a voice and leads to great inclusion; bystander behavior must be addressed and that any single person can become an \"upstander\" to support victims; and that positive stories can offer solutions and help shift community norms.\n\nTo help equip communities, the project provides specific films, resources and training for these key stakeholders. Not In Our Town serves educators and parents through the Not In Our School program and law enforcement—including police chiefs and prosecuting attorneys—through a collaboration with the U.S. Department of Justice Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office).\n\nNot In Our School grew from the lessons of Not In Our Town. An initial campaign was launched by a middle school teacher in Auburn, Maine in 1996. A hallmark of Not In Our School campaigns is that students are supported in defining the problems and identifying solutions. These solutions incorporate peer-to-peer actions to make schools safe and help bystanders gather the courage to become upstanders.\n\nMany innovative Not In Our School ideas were piloted in the Palo Alto Unified School District in Palo Alto, California starting in 2005. Today, Not In Our School supports efforts that not only address bullying, but all forms of intolerance. The program combines film, resources and coaching that help educators develop student-led programs that create safe and inclusive schools.\n\nLancaster, California, Marshalltown, Iowa and Paducah, Kentucky, among others, have launched citywide anti-bullying programs under the Not In Our School banner. Facing History and Ourselves co-authored curriculum on five Not In Our School films. The BULLY DVD Educator Toolkit features several Not In Our School films and materials.\n\nThe Not In Our School short film, “Gunn High School Sings Away the Hate,\" spread across the internet after it was tweeted by celebrity Ellen DeGeneres. More than 50 short school films are available online including \"Students Map Bully Zones to Create a Safer School,\" \"Students Take on Cyberbullying,\" \"Lancaster, CA: A City Unites to End School Bullying,\" and \"New Immigrants Share Their Stories.\"\n\nLike Not In Our School, the original Not In Our Town story sparked a number of college campus campaigns. Scottsdale Community College in Arizona took a Not On Our Campus pledge, UC Santa Barbara created a Not In Our Hall campaign and guide for resident assistants, and Bowling Green State University as well as Skidmore College created Not On Our Campus pledge cards.\n\nNot On Our Campus films also feature efforts at the University of Mississippi, University of San Diego and Indiana University.\n\nThe Not In Our Town project has sparked anti-intolerance activity in hundreds of communities in the United States and in other countries including South Africa, Ireland, Czech Republic and Ukraine. Women groups through Project Kesher started 20 Not In Our Town campaigns across the former Soviet Union starting in 2011. Not In Our Town was introduced in three cities in Hungary in Spring 2013, and was presented to six U.S. Embassies in Central Europe by the State Department. In Fall 2013, concerned Hungarian citizens launched [Nalunknem.org Nalunknem.org], modeled after NIOT.org.\n\nNot In Our Town films document community responses to hate incidents and crimes. Some notable incidents include:\n\n\nNot In Our Town films have featured creative community responses to hate group rallies and protests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19418707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19418707", "title": "Paul Humphreys (philosopher)", "text": "Paul Humphreys (philosopher)\n\nPaul Humphreys is a significant contributor to the philosophy of emergent properties, as well as other areas in the Philosophy of science and Philosophy of probability. He is a Professor of Philosophy at the University of Virginia, specialising in philosophy of science, metaphysics, and epistemology. His current interests include the metaphysics and epistemology of emergence, computational science, empiricism and realism, and strategy.\n\nHumphreys has published a substantial number of books and scholarly articles. He is Series Editor for the Oxford Studies in the Philosophy of Science. He serves on the editorial Boards of the \"American Philosophical Quarterly\", \"Philosophy of Science\", and \"Foundations of Science.\n\n"}
{"id": "10388705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10388705", "title": "Philosophy of Max Stirner", "text": "Philosophy of Max Stirner\n\nThe philosophy of Max Stirner is credited as a major influence in the development of individualism, nihilism, existentialism, post-modernism and anarchism (especially of egoist anarchism, individualist anarchism, postanarchism and post-left anarchy). Max Stirner's main philosophical work was \"The Ego and Its Own\", also known as \"The Ego and His Own\" (\"Der Einzige und sein Eigentum\" in German, or more accurately \"The Individual and his Property\"). Stirner's philosophy has been cited as an influence on both his contemporaries, most notably Karl Marx (who was strongly opposed to Stirner's views) as well as subsequent thinkers such as Friedrich Nietzsche, Enrico Arrigoni, Steven T. Byington, Benjamin R. Tucker, Emile Armand, Albert Camus and Saul Newman.\n\nStirner argues that the concept of the self is something impossible to fully comprehend; a so-called \"creative nothing\" he described as an \"end-point of language\": \n\nIn order to understand this creative nothing, Stirner uses poetry and vivid imagery. The creative nothing by its dialectical shortcomings creates the need for a description, for meaning: \n\nStirner elaborated this attempt to describe the indescribable in the essay \"Stirner's Critics\", written by Stirner in response to Feuerbach and others (in custom with the time, he refers to himself in the third person): \n\n\"The Ego and Its Own\" opens and closes with a quotation from Johann Wolfgang von Goethe that reads \"I have taken up my cause without foundation\", with the unstated next line of the poem being \"and all the world is mine\". One of Stirner's central ideas is that in realizing the self is \"nothing\" one is said to \"own the world\" because—as the book states in its last line—\"all things are nothing to me\" [\"Ibidem\", p. 324]: \n\nStirner describes this world view in brief as \"enjoyment\" and claims that the \"nothingness\" of the non-self is \"unutterable\" (p. 314) or \"unnameable\" (p. 132), \"unspeakable\" yet \"a mere word\" (p. 164; cf. Stirner's comments on the skeptic concepts ataraxia and aphasia, p. 26).\n\nStirner has been broadly understood as a proponent of both psychological egoism and ethical egoism, although the latter position can be disputed as there is no claim in Stirner's writing in which one ought to pursue one's own interest and further claiming any \"ought\" could be seen as a new \"fixed idea\". Therefore, he may be understood as a rational egoist in the sense that he considered it irrational not to act in one's self-interest. However, how this self-interest is defined is necessarily subjective, allowing both selfish and altruistic normative claims to be included. Further, rationality as an end in and of itself is another fixed idea.\n\nIndividual self-realization rests on each individual's desire to fulfill their egoism. The difference between an unwilling and a willing egoist is that the former will be 'possessed' by an empty idea and believe that they are fulfilling a higher cause, but usually being unaware that they are only fulfilling their own desires to be happy or secure; and the latter, in contrast, will be a person that is able to freely choose its actions, fully aware that they are only fulfilling individual desires: \n\nThe contrast is also expressed in terms of the difference between the voluntary egoist being the possessor of his concepts as opposed to being possessed. Only when one realizes that all sacred truths such as law, right, morality, religion and so on are nothing other than artificial concepts and not to be obeyed can one act freely. For Stirner, to be free is to be both one's own \"creature\" (in the sense of 'creation') and one's own \"creator\" (dislocating the traditional role assigned to the gods). To Stirner, power is the method of egoism. It is the only justified method of gaining 'property'. Even love is explained as \"consciously egoistic\": \n\nHowever, Stirner cautioned against any reification of the egoist or subject: \n\nStirner proposes that most commonly accepted social institutions—including the notion of state, property as a right, natural rights in general and the very notion of society—were mere illusions or \"ghosts\" in the mind, saying of society that \"the individuals are its reality\". Stirner wants to \"abolish not only the state but also society as an institution responsible for its members\".\n\nHe advocated egoism and a form of amoralism in which individuals would unite in \"Union of egoists\" only when it was in their self-interest to do so. For him, property simply comes about through might: \"Whoever knows how to take, to defend, the thing, to him belongs property. [...] \"What I have in my power, that is my own. So long as I assert myself as holder, I am the proprietor of the thing\". He says: \"I do not step shyly back from your property, but look upon it always as my property, in which I respect nothing. Pray do the like with what you call my property!\". Stirner considers the world and everything in it, including other persons, available to one's taking or use without moral constraint—that rights do not exist in regard to objects and people at all. He sees no rationality in taking the interests of others into account unless doing so furthers one's self-interest, which he believes is the only legitimate reason for acting. He denies society as being an actual entity: \"The conquerors form a society which one may imagine so great that it by degrees embraces all humanity; but so-called humanity too is as such only a thought (spook); the individuals are its reality\" (\"The Ego and Its Own\", Tucker ed., p. 329).\n\nStirner never referred to markets and his philosophy on property causes problems for a market system because—according to proponents of markets—property is not considered to be legitimate if taken by force. Stirner was opposed to communism, seeing it as a form of authority over the individual. He said in \"The Ego and Its Own\": \n\nStirner has a concept of \"egoistic property\" in which he is referring to the absence of moral restrictions on how the individual uses everything in the world, including other people. For Stirner, property come about through might: \"Whoever knows how to take, to defend, the thing, to him belongs property. [...] What I have in my power, that is my own. So long as I assert myself as holder, I am the proprietor of the thing\". He says: \"I do not step shyly back from your property, but look upon it always as my property, in which I respect nothing. Pray do the like with what you call my property!\". This position on property is much different from the then prevalent form of individualist anarchism, which defended the inviolability of the private property that has been earned through labour. However, American individualist anarchist Benjamin Tucker rejected the natural rights philosophy and adopted Stirner's egoism in 1886, with several others joining with him. Since he was a radical anarchist, he preferred a political-economic social condition that was anti-statist, anti-capitalist and anti-authoritarian completely void of authoritarian monopolies (whether they positioned themselves as property or sovereignty) which were the enemies of individual liberation. Stirner's egoist anarchism is all about freeing the individual from the domination of property monopolists such as monarchs, governments, or industrialists while at the same time it positions itself against the anti-individualist nature of the traditional political left. Stirner had no concrete dogma on the issue of property and simply urged individuals to stop being ruled by others regardless of the authorities' moral claims about political sovereignty or property rights.\n\nStirner's idea of the \"Union of egoists\" was first expounded in \"The Ego and Its Own\". The Union is understood as a non-systematic association, which Stirner proposed in contradistinction to the state. The Union is understood as a relation between egoists which is continually renewed by all parties' support through an act of will. The Union requires that all parties participate out of a conscious egoism. If one party silently finds themselves to be suffering, but puts up and keeps the appearance, the union has degenerated into something else. This Union is not seen as an authority above a person's own will.\n\nStirner criticizes conventional notions of revolution, arguing that social movements aimed at overturning the state are tacitly statist because they are implicitly aimed at the establishment of a new state thereafter. To illustrate this argument, he compares his own social and moral role with that of Jesus Christ: \n\nAs Stirner specifies in a footnote (p. 280), he was here using the word insurgent \"in its etymological sense\", therefore to rise above the religion and government of one's own times and to take control of one's life with no consideration of them, but not necessarily to overthrow them. This contrasts with the method of the revolutionary who brings about a change of conditions by displacing one government with another: \n\nStirner was writing about people liberating themselves from their own limits and rising above limiting social, political and ideological conditions and for each to walk their own way. The passages quoted above are clearly incompatible with David Leopold's conclusion (in his introduction to the Cambridge University Press edition) that Stirner \"saw humankind as 'fretted in dark superstition' but denied that he sought their enlightenment and welfare\" (\"Ibidem\", p. xxxii). Stirner refused to describe himself as directly liberating others, but his stated purpose in these quotations seems to be to achieve the \"enlightenment and welfare\" of others by way of demonstration and \"insurrection\" as he defines it.\n\nThe passages quoted above show the few points of contact between Stirner's philosophy and early Christianity. It is merely Jesus as an \"annihilator\" of the established biases and preconceptions of Rome that Stirner can relate to. His reason for \"citing\" the cultural change sparked by Jesus is that he wants the Christian ideologies of 19th century Europe to collapse, much as the ideology of heathen Rome did before it (e.g. \"[the Christian era] will end with the casting off of the ideal, with 'contempt for the spirit'\", p. 320). As with the classical skeptics before him, Stirner's method of self-liberation is opposed to faith or belief and he envisions a life free from \"dogmatic presuppositions\" (p. 135, 309) or any \"fixed standpoint\" (p. 295). It is not merely Christian dogma that his thought repudiates, but also a wide variety of European atheist ideologies that are condemned as crypto-Christian for putting ideas in an equivalent role: \nWhat Stirner proposes is not that concepts should rule people, but that people should rule concepts. The \"nothingness\" of all truth is rooted in the \"nothingness\" of the self because the ego is the criterion of (dogmatic) truth. Again, Stirner seems closely comparable to the skeptics in that his radical epistemology directs us to emphasise empirical experience (the \"unmediated\" relationship of mind as world and world as mind), but it leaves only a very limited validity to the category of \"truth\". When we regard the impressions of the senses with detachment, simply for what they are (e.g. neither good nor evil), we may still correctly assign truth to them: \nIn place of such systems of beliefs, Stirner presents a detached life of non-dogmatic, open-minded engagement with the world \"as it is\" (unpolluted by \"faith\" of any kind, Christian or humanist), coupled with the awareness that there is no soul, no personal essence of any kind, but that the individual's uniqueness consists solely in its \"creative nothingness\" prior to all concepts.\n\nScholar Lawrence Stepelevich argues that Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel was a major influence on \"The Ego and Its Own\". While the latter has an \"un-Hegelian structure and tone\" on the whole and is hostile to Hegel's conclusions about the self and the world, Stepelevich argues that Stirner's work is best understood as answering Hegel's question of the role of consciousness after it has contemplated \"untrue knowledge\" and become \"absolute knowledge\". Stirner, Stepelevich concludes, presents the consequences of the rediscovering one's self-consciousness after realizing self-determination.\n\nHowever, Widukind De Ridder has argued that scholars who take Stirner's references to Hegel and the Young Hegelians as expressions of his own alleged Hegelianism are highly mistaken. De Ridder argues that \"The Ego and Its Own\" is in part a carefully constructed parody of Hegelianism, deliberately exposing its outwornness as a system of thought; and that Stirner's notions of \"ownness\" and \"egoism\" were part of his radical criticism of the implicit teleology of Hegelian dialectics.\n\nStirner was a philosopher whose \"name appears with familiar regularity in historically-orientated surveys of anarchist thought as one of the earliest and best-known exponents of individualist anarchism\". In 1844, his \"The Ego and Its Own\" (\"Der Einzige und sein Eigentum\" which may literally be translated as \"The Unique Individual and His Property\") was published and it is considered to be \"a founding text in the tradition of individualist anarchism\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55666665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55666665", "title": "Power Politics (Wight book)", "text": "Power Politics (Wight book)\n\nPower politics is a book by International Relations scholar Martin Wight, first published in 1946 as a 68-page essay. After 1959 Wight added twelve further chapters. Other works of Wight's were added by his former students, Hedley Bull and Carsten Holbraad, and a combined volume was published in 1978, six years after Wight's death. The book provides an overview of international politics featuring many elements of \"Realpolitik\" analysis.\n\nWight, a pacifist and devout Christian, was appalled by World War II. He favoured a revival of the biblical term Antichrist to describe recurrent warlike situations in history - Antichrist in this context meaning a \"demonic concentration of power\" rather than a person. In chapter one he observes that the modern state has become \"the ultimate loyalty for which men will fight. The mediaeval world of 'rights and wrongs' has been replaced by a modern one of 'powers, forces, dynasties and ideas\".\n\nWight begins: \"Power politics is a colloquial phrase for international politics.\" He explains that states exploit power to achieve expansion and dominance; \"every dominant power aspires... to become a universal empire.\" For diplomatic reasons, \"dominant powers\" are euphemized as \"Great Powers ... who wish to monopolise (sic) the right to create international conflict\". Great Powers win and lose their status through violence, and are defined by their ability to wage war; they are decreasing in number, but those remaining are increasing in size.\n\nHe argues that War and revolution go together: communism provoked fascist and Nazi responses; and both ideologies were led by \"gangsters\" seeking to rule the world. To suppose that revolutionary ideologies have now been discarded is to show ignorance of human nature, says Wight.\n\nAccording to Wight, though states are few in number, they are widely diverse and atypical in character. States are more or less immortal, and are therefore unindictable in law. International law is weak, unclear, decentralized, unpoliced, and therefore unenforceable; there is no sovereign power above states.\n\nTherefore, he concludes \"domestically, power is constrained by law; but internationally, law is governed and constrained by the struggle for power ... There is no international society, only \"international anarchy\". International politics is really \"power politics\", and the causes of war are inherent therein\". And, furthermore, '\"diplomacy is a 'European invention imposed on the world,'\" which \"consists in information, negotiation, and communication, but also, covertly, in espionage, subversion and propaganda\".\n\nLater chapters examine alliances, the \"balance of power\", arms races, disarmament, and the supra-national authority of the League of Nations and the United Nations. Wight concludes that \"security\" is inseparable from moral behavior and cites Gladstone and Franklin Roosevelt as examples of the latter.\n\nAccording to Charles Manning, Hedley Bull, Sir Michael Howard, and Hans Morgenthau Martin Wight is one of the finest international thinkers of the 20th century. M. Nicholson says: \"Within the 'English school' of International Relations, the work of Martin Wight is placed in particularly high esteem. More perhaps than anyone else, he is the scholar who did IR as it ought to be done.\" Reviewing \"Power Politic\", F.P. King calls it a delightful book \"to browse through, contemplate, refute and enjoy more than once ... Resplendent history, allusions, wit and reasoning.\" Ian Hall has written a detailed resumé of Wight's work: \"The International Thought of Martin Wight\", Palgrave Macmillan, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "39712136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39712136", "title": "Prioritised Petri net", "text": "Prioritised Petri net\n\nA Prioritised Petri net is a structure (PN, Π) where PN is a Petri net and Π is a priority function that maps transitions into non-negative natural numbers representing their priority level \n\nThe enabled transitions with a given priority k always fire before any other enabled transition with priority j<k.\n\n"}
{"id": "17870536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17870536", "title": "Pure type system", "text": "Pure type system\n\nIn the branches of mathematical logic known as proof theory and type theory, a pure type system (PTS), previously known as a generalized type system (GTS), is a form of typed lambda calculus that allows an arbitrary number of sorts and dependencies between any of these. The framework can be seen as a generalisation of Barendregt's lambda cube, in the sense that all corners of the cube can be represented as instances of a PTS with just two sorts. In fact Barendregt (1991) framed his cube in this setting. Pure type systems may obscure the distinction between \"types\" and \"terms\" and collapse the type hierarchy, as is the case with the calculus of constructions, but this is not generally the case, e.g. the simply typed lambda calculus allows only terms to depend on terms.\n\nPure type systems were independently introduced by Stefano Berardi (1988) and Jan Terlouw (1989). Barendregt discussed them at length in his subsequent papers. In his PhD thesis, Berardi defined a cube of constructive logics akin to the lambda cube (these specifications are non-dependent). A modification of this cube was later called the L-cube by Geuvers, who in his PhD thesis extended the Curry–Howard correspondence to this setting. Based on these ideas, Barthe and others defined classical pure type systems (CPTS) by adding a double negation operator. \nSimilarly, in 1998, Tijn Borghuis introduced modal pure type systems (MPTS). Roorda has discussed the application of pure type systems to functional programming; and Roorda and Jeuring have proposed a programming language based on pure type systems.\n\nThe systems from the lambda cube are all known to be strongly normalizing. Pure type systems in general need not be, for example System U from Girard's paradox is not. (Roughly speaking, Girard found pure systems in which one can express the sentence \"the types form a type\".) Furthermore, all known examples of pure type systems that are not strongly normalizing are not even (weakly) normalizing: they contain expressions that do not have normal forms, just like the untyped lambda calculus. It is a major open problem in the field whether this is always the case, i.e. whether a (weakly) normalizing PTS always has the strong normalization property. This is known as the Barendregt–Geuvers–Klop conjecture (named after Henk Barendregt, Herman Geuvers, and Jan Willem Klop).\n\nThe following programming languages have pure type systems:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "89484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89484", "title": "Reaction wheel", "text": "Reaction wheel\n\nA reaction wheel (RW) is a type of flywheel used primarily by spacecraft for three axis attitude control, which doesn't require rockets or external applicators of torque. They provide a high pointing accuracy, and are particularly useful when the spacecraft must be rotated by very small amounts, such as keeping a telescope pointed at a star.\n\nA reaction wheel is sometimes operated as (and referred to as) a momentum wheel, by operating it at a constant (or near-constant) rotation speed, in order to imbue a satellite with a large amount of stored angular momentum. Doing so alters the spacecraft's rotational dynamics so that disturbance torques perpendicular to one axis of the satellite (the axis parallel to the wheel's spin axis) do not result directly in spacecraft angular motion about the same axis as the disturbance torque; instead, they result in (generally smaller) angular motion (precession) of that spacecraft axis about a perpendicular axis. This has the effect of tending to stabilize that spacecraft axis to point in a nearly-fixed direction, allowing for a less-complicated attitude control system. Satellites using this \"momentum-bias\" stabilization approach include SCISAT-1; by orienting the momentum wheel's axis to be parallel to the orbit-normal vector, this satellite is in a \"pitch momentum bias\" configuration.\n\nA control moment gyroscope (CMG) is a related but different type of attitude actuator, generally consisting of a momentum wheel mounted in a one-axis or two-axis gimbal. When mounted to a rigid spacecraft, applying a constant torque to the wheel using one of the gimbal motors causes the spacecraft to develop a constant angular velocity about a perpendicular axis, thus allowing control of the spacecraft's pointing direction. CMGs are generally able to produce larger sustained torques than RWs with less motor heating, and are preferentially used in larger and/or more-agile spacecraft, including Skylab, Mir, and the International Space Station.\n\nReaction wheels are used to control the attitude of a satellite without the use of thrusters, which reduces the mass fraction needed for fuel. \n\nThey work by equipping the spacecraft with an electric motor attached to a flywheel which, when its rotation speed is changed, causes the spacecraft to begin to counter-rotate proportionately through conservation of angular momentum. Reaction wheels can rotate a spacecraft only around its center of mass (see torque); they are not capable of moving the spacecraft from one place to another (see translational force).\n\nFor three axis control, reaction wheels must be mounted along at least three directions, with extra wheels providing additional redundancy to the attitude control system. A redundant mounting configuration could consist of four wheels along tetrahedral axes, or a spare wheel carried in addition to a three axis configuration. Changes in speed (in either direction) are controlled electronically by computer. The strength of the materials used in a reaction wheel determine the speed at which the wheel would come apart, and therefore how much angular momentum it can store.\n\nSince the reaction wheel is a small fraction of the spacecraft's total mass, easily controlled, temporary changes in its speed result in small changes in angle. The wheels therefore permit very precise changes in a spacecraft's attitude. For this reason, reaction wheels are often used to aim spacecraft carrying cameras or telescopes.\n\nOver time, reaction wheels may build up enough stored momentum to exceed the maximum speed of the wheel, called saturation, which will need to be cancelled. Designers therefore supplement reaction wheel systems with other attitude control mechanisms. In the presence of a magnetic field (as in low Earth orbit), a spacecraft can employ magnetorquers (better known as torque rods) to transfer angular momentum to the Earth through its planetary magnetic field. In the absence of a magnetic field, the most efficient practice is to use either high-efficiency attitude jets such as ion thrusters, or small, lightweight solar sails placed in locations away from the spacecraft's center of mass, such as on solar cell arrays or projecting masts. Most spacecraft, however, also need fast pointing, and cannot afford the extra mass of three attitude control systems. Designers therefore usually use conventional monopropellant vernier engines for all these purposes.\n\nThe failure of one or more reaction wheels can cause a spacecraft to lose its ability to maintain attitude (orientation) and thus potentially cause a mission failure. Recent studies conclude that these failures can be correlated with space weather effects.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13567757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13567757", "title": "Red hartebeest", "text": "Red hartebeest\n\nThe red hartebeest (\"Alcelaphus buselaphus caama\" or \"A. caama\") is a species of even-toed ungulate in the family Bovidae found in Southern Africa. More than 130,000 individuals live in the wild. The red hartebeest is closely related to the tsessebe and the topi.\n\n\"Alcelaphus buselaphus caama\" is a large African antelope of the family Bovidae, one of ten subspecies; it is sometimes treated as a separate species, \"A. caama\". Commonly known as the red hartebeest, it is the most colorful hartbeest, with black markings contrasting against its white abdomen and behind. It has a longer face that other subspecies, with complex curving horns joined at the base. The average weight of a male is about 150 kg, and female is 120 kg. Their average shoulder height is 135 cm, and horns are 60 cm long. The life expectancy of a red hartebeest is around 19 years. Little sexual dimorphism is noted between males and females, showing no distinct identifiable physical features, but body size is slightly affected. Horn size, however, expresses more dimorphism between males and females, as males fight and defend themselves for sexual selection. Thus, male skull weight and circumference is slightly greater than that of the female.\nHartebeests have an excellent sense of hearing and smell, although their sense of sight is poor. When alarmed, hartebeests elude confusion before running, by which they can reach a maximum speed of 55 km/h. Their evasion tactic is to run in a zigzag pattern, making it difficult for predators to catch them.\n\n\"A. buselaphus\" subspecies have a gestation period of eight months, and they give birth to single calves. They typically give birth in a seasonal pattern before the summer rain begins. After birth, calves are hidden in dense vegetation before joining a group to increase their chances of survival from predators, since they are weak.\nMost females begin breeding after the age of two, and can conceive again 9 or 10 months after giving birth.\n\nRed hartebeests are grass feeders, which is evidenced by their long snouts, which give the advantage of an improved cropping ability to acquire and masticate grasses more efficiently. During the rainy season in southern Africa, the grass species \"Andropogon\" is in abundance and is the main source of dietary consumption. As grazers, their diets fluctuate seasonally, as they consume higher-quality, green primary production in wet seasons, and lower-quality sheath material in the dry seasons. Hartebeests are considered less water-dependent than most alcelaphines, only needing to drink water when melons and tubers are inaccessible.\n\nThe few carnivores preying on hartebeests in southern Africa include lions, spotted hyenas, leopards, and cheetahs. However, hartebeests are not the primary food source of any of these species, particularly spotted hyenas. Lions only consume hartebeests for about 7% of their diets, hyenas consume hartebeests in 3.5%, cheetahs consume hartebeests in 1.75%, and leopards consume hartebeests in 6.25% of their diets. Lions typically prey on adult males, while both spotted hyenas and leopards tend to prey on young calves. These predatory habits are likely attributed to the difficulty of catching nomadic hartebeests, as well as the better success hyenas and leopards have with catching calves.\n\nHunting is always an issue to consider in rural areas, since little enforcement of animal protection laws is possible, or there can be no established regulations at all. Hunting hartebeests for survival is an ancient practice: persistence hunting in the hottest part of the day was most common, when hunters could catch the animal at its weakest point. Over the past 20 years, however, one of the only places where persistence hunting still occurs is in central Kalahari.\n\nThe red hartebeest is primarily found in southwestern Africa. Southern Africa's dissected topography, geologic diversity, climate oscillations, and mosaic of distinct vegetation types has been the primary means for radiation and diversification amidst hartebeest species, which has led red hartebeests to vary slightly in their capacity to consume the diets they do. Most ungulates in Africa are nomadic, as they are dependent on food sources that become depleted if they stay in one place. \"A. buselaphus\" lives in herds in open plains and scrublands in the sub-Saharan African climate.\n\nIn the early 1900s, \"antelope\" was a very broad, ambiguous name given to most hollow-horned ruminants besides oxen, sheep, and goats. Of these antelopes found in Africa, Asia, and Europe, Africa has the most diverse populations of antelopes, with horn lengths ranging from six feet long, to a quarter of an inch. \"A. b. caama\", from the family Bovidae, used to be categorized as the subfamily of Bubalinae, but are now classified under the subfamily Alcelaphini. This youngest of all African bovid subfamilies dates back 5 million years ago, and has exhibited great diversification. The oldest fossil of \"Alcelaphus\" has been dated to 740,000 years ago. Besides \"Alcelaphus\", the three other genera from the Alcelaphini are \"Beatragus\", \"Connochaetes\", and \"Damaliscus\".\nOver millions of years, the Alcelaphini have diversified to fill certain niches and have spread to different habitats across the continent of Africa. The genus \"Alcelaphus\" is suggested to have evolved and diversified due to climate variability over a range of habitats in the Pleistocene era. About 500,000 years ago, the Alcelaphini diverged into northern and southern clades, while the northern clade diverged once more into eastern and western lineages 400,000 years ago. The species \"Alcelaphus caama\" originated from the southern clade, also including \"lichtensteinii\", in Namibia. The northern clade comprises the rest of the hartebeest complex.\n\nDiversification of these species has been solely attributed to environmental and habitat changes due to global warming around 250 to 195 thousand years ago, and global cooling 175 to 125 thousand years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "2160901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2160901", "title": "Resentment", "text": "Resentment\n\nResentment (also called ranklement or bitterness) is a mixture of disappointment, anger and fear. It comprises the three basic emotions of disgust, sadness and surprise—the perception of injustice. As the surprise of injustice becomes less frequent, so too fades anger and fear, leaving disappointment as the predominant emotion. So, to the extent perceived disgust and sadness remain, the level of disappointment also remains. Resentment can be triggered by an emotionally disturbing experience felt again or relived in the mind. When the person feeling resentment is directing the emotion at himself or herself, it appears as remorse.\n\nRobert C. Solomon, a professor of philosophy at the University of Texas at Austin, places resentment on the same continuum as anger and contempt, and he argues that the differences between the three are that resentment is anger directed toward a higher-status individual; anger is directed toward an equal-status individual; and contempt is anger directed toward a lower-status individual.\n\nResentment is not one of Paul Ekman's six basic emotions (surprise, disgust, happiness, sadness, anger, and fear). \n\nThe word originates from French \"ressentir\", re-, intensive prefix, and \"sentir\" \"to feel\"; from the Latin \"sentire\". The English word has become synonymous with anger and spite.\n\nResentment can result from a variety of situations, involving a perceived wrongdoing from an individual, which are often sparked by expressions of injustice or humiliation. Common sources of resentment include publicly humiliating incidents such as accepting negative treatment without voicing any protest, an object of regular discrimination or prejudice, envy/jealousy, feeling used or taken advantage of by others, and having achievements go unrecognized, while others succeed without working as hard. Resentment can also be generated by dyadic interactions, such as emotional rejection or denial by another person, deliberate embarrassment or belittling by another person, or ignorance, putting down, or scorn by another person.\n\nUnlike many emotions, resentment does not have physical tags exclusively related to it that telegraph when a person is feeling this emotion. However, physical expressions associated with related emotions such as anger and envy may be exhibited, such as furrowed brows or bared teeth.\n\nResentment can be self-diagnosed by looking for signs such as the need for emotion regulation, such as faking happiness while with a person to cover true feelings toward him or speaking in a sarcastic or demeaning way to or about the person. It can also be diagnosed through the appearance of agitation- or dejection-related emotions, such as feeling inexplicably depressed or despondent, becoming angry for no apparent reason, or having nightmares or disturbing daydreams about a person.\n\nResentment is most powerful when it is felt toward someone whom the individual is close to or intimate with. To have an injury resulting in resentful feelings inflicted by a friend or loved one leaves the individual feeling betrayed as well as resentful, and these feelings can have deep effects.\n\nResentment is an emotionally debilitating condition that, when unresolved, can have a variety of negative results on the person experiencing it, including touchiness or edginess when thinking of the person resented, denial of anger or hatred against this person, and provocation or anger arousal when this person is recognized positively. It can also have more long-term effects, such as the development of a hostile, cynical, sarcastic attitude that may become a barrier against other healthy relationships, lack of personal and emotional growth, difficulty in self-disclosure, trouble trusting others, loss of self-confidence, and overcompensation.\n\nTo further compound these negative effects, resentment often functions in a downward spiral. Resentful feelings cut off communication between the resentful person and the person he or she feels committed the wrong, and can result in future miscommunications and the development of further resentful feelings. Because of the consequences they carry, resentful feelings are dangerous to live with and need to be dealt with. Resentment is an obstacle to the restoration of equal moral relations among persons, and must be handled and expunged via introspection and forgiveness.\n\nPsychologist James J. Messina recommends five steps to facing and resolving resentful feelings. (1) Identify the source of the resentful feelings and what it is the person did to evoke these feelings, (2) develop a new way of looking at past, present and future life, including how resentment has affected life and how letting go of resentment can improve the future, (3) write a letter to the source of the resentment, listing offenses and explaining the circumstances, then forgive and let go of the offenses (but do not send the letter), (4) visualize a future without the negative impact of resentment, and (5) if resentful feelings still linger, return to Step 1 and begin again.\n\nResentment is considered to be synonymous with anger, spite, and other similar emotions. However, while it may incorporate elements of these emotions, resentment is distinct from them in several ways. Aside from sharing similar facial expressions, resentment and anger differ primarily in the way they are externally expressed. Anger results in aggressive behavior, used to avert or deal with a threat, while resentment occurs once the injury has been dealt and is not expressed as aggressively or as openly.\n\nResentment and spite also differ primarily in the way they are expressed. Resentment is unique in that it is almost exclusively internalized, where it can do further emotional and psychological damage but does not strongly impact the person resented. By contrast, spite is exclusively externalized, involving vindictive actions against a (perceived or actual) source of wrong. Spiteful actions can stem from resentful feelings, however.\n\nPhilosopher Robert C. Solomon wrote extensively on the emotion of resentment and its negative effects on those who experience it. Solomon describes resentment as the means by which man clings to his self-respect. He wrote that it is in this moment when humanity is at its lowest ebb.\n\nThe Alcoholics Anonymous organization cites resentment as the number one offender, and one of the greatest threats to an alcoholic. Several of the Twelve Steps of AA involve identifying and dealing with resentment as part of the path toward recovery, including acknowledging one's own role in resentment and praying for the resentment to be taken away.\n\nResentment can also play a role in racial and ethnic conflicts. Resentment is cited as having infected the structure of social value, and is thus a regular catalyst in conflicts sparked by inequality. It can also be one of the emotions experienced during class conflict, particularly by the oppressed social class.\n\n"}
{"id": "26313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26313", "title": "Roget's Thesaurus", "text": "Roget's Thesaurus\n\nRoget's Thesaurus is a widely used English-language thesaurus, created in 1805 by Peter Mark Roget (1779–1869), British physician, natural theologian and lexicographer. It was released to the public on 29 April 1852. The original edition had 15,000 words, and each new edition has been larger. Roget was inspired by the Utilitarian teachings of Jeremy Bentham and wished to help \"those who are painfully groping their way and struggling with the difficulties of composition [...] this work processes to hold out a helping hand\" The Karpeles Library Museum houses the original manuscript in its collection.\n\nThe name \"Roget\" is trademarked in parts of the world, such as the United Kingdom. By itself, it is not protected in the United States, where use of the name \"Roget\" in the title of a thesaurus does not necessarily indicate any relationship to Roget directly; it has come to be seen as a generic thesaurus name. With it's hegemonic status, it became \"a mark of civility\". J.M. Barrie stated \"[Captain Hook] is not wholly evil [h]e has a Thesaurus in his cabin\" . Indeed, Sylvia Plath considered it her desert islandbook over the Bible. \n\nRoget described his thesaurus in the foreword to the first edition:\n\nIt is now nearly fifty years since I first projected a system of verbal classification similar to that on which the present work is founded. Conceiving that such a compilation might help to supply my own deficiencies, I had, in the year 1805, completed a classed catalogue of words on a small scale, but on the same principle, and nearly in the same form, as the Thesaurus now published.\n\"Roget's Thesaurus\" is composed of six primary classes. Each class is composed of multiple divisions and then sections. This may be conceptualized as a tree containing over a thousand branches for individual \"meaning clusters\" or semantically linked words. Although these words are not strictly synonyms, they can be viewed as colours or connotations of a meaning or as a spectrum of a concept. One of the most general words is chosen to typify the spectrum as its headword, which labels the whole group.\n\nRoget's schema of classes and their subdivisions is based on the philosophical work of Leibniz (see Leibniz—Symbolic thought), itself following a long tradition of epistemological work starting with Aristotle. Some of Aristotle's Categories are included in Roget's first class \"abstract relations\". \n\nThe book is updated regularly and each edition is heralded as a gauge to contemporary terms; but each edition keeps true to the original classifications established by Roget. \n\nNaturally, it has critics calling it a book for the 'lexically lazy'. Simon Winchester believes it has allowed a \"state of linguistic and intellectual mediocrity\". Whilst Robert McNeil used the Thesaurus to rewrite, satirically for The Scotsman, Shakespeare, the 'nunnery scene': \"To vegetate or not to exist, that is the knotty point. Whether 'tis haughtier in the cerebellum to grin and bear the pea-shooters and harpoons of unmentionable serendipity ...\" thus highlighting the book's lost art form. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11972862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11972862", "title": "Roving wiretap", "text": "Roving wiretap\n\nIn United States law, a roving wiretap is a wiretap that follows the surveillance target. For instance, if a target attempts to defeat a regular wiretap by throwing away a phone and acquiring a new one, another surveillance order would usually need to be applied for to tap the new one. A \"roving wiretap\", once authorised, follows the target rather than a specific phone device, and would give the surveilling body permission to tap second and subsequent phones without applying for new surveillance orders.\n\nIn the US, it is allowed under amendments made to Title III of the \"Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968\" (the \"Wiretap Statute\") in 1988 by the \"Electronic Communications Privacy Act\", and was later expanded by section 604 of the \"Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999\". On May 26, 2011, the U.S. Senate voted to extend the provisions of the 2001 USA PATRIOT Act to search business records and allow for roving wiretaps. The roving wiretap provision of the Patriot Act briefly expired on Jun 1, 2015, but was restored the next day by enactment of the USA Freedom Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "16924525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16924525", "title": "Saṃsāra (Jainism)", "text": "Saṃsāra (Jainism)\n\nSaṃsāra (transmigration) in Jain philosophy, refers to the worldly life characterized by continuous rebirths and reincarnations in various realms of existence. is described as mundane existence, full of suffering and misery and hence is considered undesirable and worth renunciation. The \"Saṃsāra\" is without any beginning and the soul finds itself in bondage with its karma since the beginning-less time. \"Moksha\" is the only way to be liberated from \"saṃsāra\".\n\nAccording to the Jain text, Tattvartha sutra:\n\nActivities that lead to the influx of karmas (\"asrava\") which extends transmigration are:\n\n\nJain texts prescribe meditation on twelve forms of reflection (\"bhāvanā\") for those who wish to stop the above described \"asrava\". One such reflection is \"Saṃsāra bhavanā\".\nIt has been described in one of the Jain text, \"Sarvārthasiddhi\" as:\n\nChampat Rai Jain, a 20th century Jain writer in his book \"The Practical Dharma\" wrote:\n\n"}
{"id": "4133427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4133427", "title": "Specific strength", "text": "Specific strength\n\nThe specific strength is a material's strength (force per unit area at failure) divided by its density. It is also known as the strength-to-weight ratio or strength/weight ratio. In fiber or textile applications, tenacity is the usual measure of specific strength. The SI unit for specific strength is Pa m/kg, or N·m/kg, which is dimensionally equivalent to m/s, though the latter form is rarely used.\n\nAnother way to describe specific strength is breaking length, also known as self support length: the maximum length of a vertical column of the material (assuming a fixed cross-section) that could suspend its own weight when supported only at the top. For this measurement, the definition of weight is the force of gravity at the Earth's surface (standard gravity, 9.80665 m/s) applying to the entire length of the material, not diminishing with height. This usage is more common with certain specialty fiber or textile applications.\n\nThe materials with the highest specific strengths are typically fibers such as carbon fiber, glass fiber and various polymers, and these are frequently used to make composite materials (e.g. carbon fiber-epoxy). These materials and others such as titanium, aluminium, magnesium and high strength steel alloys are widely used in aerospace and other applications where weight savings are worth the higher material cost.\n\nNote that strength and stiffness are distinct. Both are important in design of efficient and safe structures.\n\nThe data of this table is from best cases, and has been established for giving a rough figure.\n\nThe International Space Elevator Consortium has proposed the \"Yuri\" as a name for the SI units describing specific strength. Specific strength is of fundamental importance in the description of space elevator cable materials. One Yuri is conceived to be the SI unit for yield stress (or breaking stress) per unit of density of a material under tension. So, the units for one Yuri are \"Pa m / kg\". This unit is equivalent to one N m / kg, which is the breaking/yielding \"force\" per \"linear\" density of the cable under tension. A functional space elevator would require a tether of 30-80 MegaYuri (corresponding to 3100–8200 km of breaking length).\n\nThe null energy condition places a fundamental limit on the specific strength of any material. The specific strength is bounded to be no greater than c ~ kN·m/kg, where c is the speed of light. This limit is achieved by electric and magnetic field lines, QCD flux tubes, and the fundamental strings hypothesized by string theory.\n\nTenacity is the customary measure of strength of a fiber or yarn. In the U.S. it is usually defined as the ultimate (breaking) force of the fiber (in gram-force units) divided by the denier.\nBecause denier is a measure of the linear density, the tenacity works out to be not a measure of force per unit area, but rather a quasi-dimensionless measure analogous to specific strength. A tenacity of formula_1 corresponds to: formula_2\n\n\n"}
{"id": "832188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=832188", "title": "Structural violence", "text": "Structural violence\n\nStructural violence is a term commonly ascribed to Johan Galtung, which he introduced in the article \"Violence, Peace, and Peace Research\" (1969). It refers to a form of violence wherein some social structure or social institution may harm people by preventing them from meeting their basic needs. Institutionalized adultism, ageism, classism, elitism, ethnocentrism, nationalism, speciesism, racism, and sexism are some examples of structural violence as proposed by Galtung. According to Galtung, rather than conveying a physical image, structural violence is an \"avoidable impairment of fundamental human needs\". As it is avoidable, structural violence is a high cause of premature death and unnecessary disability. Because structural violence affects people differently in various social structures, it is very closely linked to social injustice. Structural violence and direct violence are said to be highly interdependent, including family violence, gender violence, hate crimes, racial violence, police violence, state violence, terrorism, and war.\n\nIn his book \"Violence: Reflections on a National Epidemic\", James Gilligan defines structural violence as \"the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted with the relatively lower death rates experienced by those who are above them\". Gilligan largely describes these \"excess deaths\" as \"non-natural\" and attributes them to the stress, shame, discrimination, and denigration that results from lower status. He draws on Sennett and Cobb, who examine the \"contest for dignity\" in a context of dramatic inequality.\n\nBandy X Lee wrote in her article \"Causes and cures VII: Structural violence,\" \"It refers to the avoidable limitations society places on groups of people that constrain them from achieving the quality of life that would have otherwise been possible. These limitations could be political, economic, religious, cultural, or legal in nature and usually originate in institutions that have authority over particular subjects.\" She goes on to say that it \"directly illustrates a power system wherein social structures or institutions cause harm to people in a way that results in maldevelopment or deprivation\". Rather than the term being called social injustice or oppression, there is an advocacy for it to be called violence because this phenomenon comes from, and can be corrected by human decisions, rather than just natural causes.\n\nIn \"The Sources of Social Power\", Michael Mann makes the argument that within state formation, \"increased organizational power is a trade-off, whereby the individual obtains more security and food in exchange for his or her freedom.\" Siniša Malešević elaborates on Mann's argument by saying, \"Mann's point needs extending to cover all social organizations, not just the state. The early chiefdoms were not states, obviously; still, they were established on a similar basis—an inversely proportional relationship between security and resources, on the one hand, and liberty, on the other.\" This means that although those who live in organized, centralized social systems are not likely subject to hunger or to die in an animal attack, they are likely to engage in organized violence, which could include war. These structures make for opportunities and advances that humans could not create for themselves, including the development of agriculture, technology, philosophy, science, and art; however, these structures take tolls elsewhere, meaning that these structures are both productive and detrimental. In our early history, hunter-gather groups used organizational power to acquire more resources and produce more food, but at the same time, this power was also used to dominate, kill, and enslave other groups in order to expand territory and supplies.\n\nAlthough structural violence is said to be invisible, it has a number of influences which shape it. These include identifiable institutions, relationships, force fields, and ideologies, including discriminatory laws, gender inequality, and racism. Moreover, this does not only exist for those of the lower class, although the effects are much heavier on them, including the highest rate of disease and death, unemployment, homelessness, lack of education, powerlessness, and shared fate of miseries. The whole social order is effected by social power, but these other groups have much more indirect effects on them, with the acts generally being less violent.\n\nDue to the social and economic structure in place today, specifically the division into rich and poor, powerful and weak, and superior and inferior, the death rate is between 10 and 20 million per year, which is about ten times the death rates from suicide, homicide, and warfare combined.\n\n\"Cultural violence\" refers to aspects of a culture that can be used to justify or legitimize direct or structural violence, and may be exemplified by religion and ideology, language and art, empirical science and formal science.\n\nCultural violence makes direct and structural violence look or feel \"right\", or at least not wrong, according to Galtung. The study of cultural violence highlights the ways the act of direct violence and the fact of structural violence are legitimized and thus made acceptable in society. One mechanism of cultural violence is to change the \"moral color\" of an act from \"red/wrong\" to \"green/right\", or at least to \"yellow/acceptable\".\n\nPetra Kelly wrote in her first book, \"Fighting for Hope\" (1984):\n\nThe violence in structural violence is attributed to the specific organizations of society that injure or harm individuals or masses of individuals. In explaining his point of view on how structural violence affects the health of subaltern or marginalized people, medical anthropologist Paul Farmer writes:\n\nThis perspective has been continually discussed by Paul Farmer, as well as by Philippe Bourgois and Nancy Scheper-Hughes.\n\nTheorists argue that structural violence is embedded in the current world system; this form of violence, which is centered on apparently inequitable social arrangements, is not inevitable. Ending the global problem of structural violence will require actions that may seem unfeasible in the short term. To some, this indicates that it may be easier to devote resources to minimizing the harmful impacts of structural violence. Others, such as futurist Wendell Bell, see a need for long-term vision to guide projects for social justice. Many structural violences, such as racism and sexism, have become such a common occurrence in society that they appear almost invisible. Despite this fact, sexism and racism have been the focus of intense cultural and political resistance for many decades. Significant reform has been accomplished, though the project remains incomplete.\n\nPaul Farmer notes that there are three reasons why structural violence is hard to see. \n\n1. Suffering is exoticized--that is, when something/someone is distant or far away, individuals tend to not be affected by it. When suffering lacks proximity, it's easy to exoticise. \n2. The weight of suffering is also impossible to comprehend. There is simply no way that many individuals are able to comprehend what suffering is like. \n3. Lastly, the dynamics and distribution of suffering are still poorly understood. \n\nStructural violence affects the availability of health care in the sense that physicians often need to pay attention to broad social forces (racism, gender inequality, classism, etc.) to determine who falls ill and who will be given access to care. It is more likely for structural violence to occur in areas where biosocial methods are neglected in a country's health care system. Since structurally violent situations are viewed primarily as biological consequences, it neglects environmentally stimulated problems, such as negative social behaviours or inequality prominence. If biosocial understandings are forsaken when considering communicable diseases such as HIV, for example, prevention methods and treatment practices become inadequate and unsustainable for populations. However, the challenge is obvious: many countries cannot afford to stop the harmful cycle of structural violence. Paul Farmer argues that the major flaw in the dominant model of medical care is that medical services are sold as a commodity, remaining only available to those who can afford them. The concept of structural violence is used to show how medical professionals are not trained to understand the social forces behind disease, nor are they trained to deal with or alter them. Medical professionals have to ignore the social determinants that alter access to care, and as a result, medical interventions are significantly less effective in low-income countries. Structural violence is an issue not only in developing countries, but also in North America. For example, it has had a significant impact on diagnosis and treatment of AIDS in the United States. A 1990 study by Moore et al. found that blacks had a significantly lesser chance of receiving treatment than whites. Findings from another study suggest that the increased rate of workplace injury among undocumented Latino immigrants in the United States can be understood as an example of structural violence. Structural violence is the result of policy and social structures, and change can only be a product of altering the processes that encourage structural violence in the first place. Paul Farmer claims that \"structural interventions\" are one possible solution.\n\nCountries such as Haiti and Rwanda have implemented these interventions with positive outcomes. Examples include prohibiting the commodification of the citizen needs, such as health care, ensuring equitable access to effective therapies, and developing social safety nets. These initiatives increase citizen's social and economic rights, thus decreasing structural violence. However, for these structural interventions to be successful, medical professionals need to be capable of executing such tasks. Unfortunately, many of these professionals are not trained to perform structural interventions. Moreover, medical professionals continue to operate under conventional clinical intervention because physicians can rightly note that structural interventions are not their job. Therefore, the onus falls more on political and other experts to implement such structural changes. As noted, structural forces account for most if not all epidemic diseases (e.g., HIV). Medical professionals still continue to operate under the downstream phenomenon, with a focus is on individual lifestyle factors rather than general socio-economic, cultural, and environmental conditions. This paradigm obscures the structural impediments to changes because it tends to avoid the root causes that should be focused on. One response is to incorporate medical professionals and to acknowledge that such active structural interventions are necessary to address real public health issues.\n\nThe lessons that have been learned from successful examples of structural interventions in these countries are fundamental. Although health disparities resulting from social inequalities are possible to reduce, as long as health care is exchanged as a commodity, those without the power to purchase it will have less access to it. Biosocial research should be the main focus. Sociology can better explain the origin and spread of infectious diseases, such as HIV or AIDS. Research shows that the risk of HIV is highly affected by one's behavior and habits. Although some structural interventions can decrease premature morbidity and mortality, the social and historical determinants of the structural violence cannot be omitted. Although the interventions have enormous influence on economical and political aspects of international bodies, more interventions are needed to improve access.\n\nStructural violence also exists in the area of mental health, where systems are designed to ignore the lived experiences of people with mental illnesses when making decisions about services and funding without consulting with the ill, including those who are illiterate, cannot access computers, do not speak the dominant language, are homeless, are too unwell to fill out long formal surveys, or are in locked psychiatric and forensic wards. Online-only consultation may be inappropriate for people with a lived experience of mental illness. Structural violence is also apparent when consumers in developed countries die from preventable diseases 15–25 years earlier than do people without a lived experience of mental health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43742835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43742835", "title": "Tame abstract elementary class", "text": "Tame abstract elementary class\n\nIn model theory, a discipline within the field of mathematical logic, a tame abstract elementary class is an abstract elementary class (AEC) which satisfies a locality property for types called tameness. Even though it appears implicitly in earlier work of Shelah, tameness as a property of AEC was first isolated by Grossberg and VanDieren, who observed that tame AECs were much easier to handle than general AECs.\n\nLet \"K\" be an AEC with joint embedding, amalgamation, and no maximal models. Just like in first-order model theory, this implies \"K\" has a universal model-homogeneous monster model formula_1. Working inside formula_1, we can define a semantic notion of types by specifying that two elements \"a\" and \"b\" have the same type over some base model formula_3 if there is an automorphism of the monster model sending \"a\" to \"b\" fixing formula_3 pointwise (note that types can be defined in a similar manner without using a monster model). Such types are called Galois types.\n\nOne can ask for such types to be determined by their restriction on a small domain. This gives rise to the notion of tameness:\n\n\nTame AECs are usually also assumed to satisfy amalgamation.\n\nWhile (without the existence of large cardinals) there are examples of non-tame AECs, most of the known natural examples are tame. In addition, the following sufficient conditions for a class to be tame are known:\n\n\nMany results in the model theory of (general) AECs assume weak forms of the Generalized continuum hypothesis and rely on sophisticated combinatorial set-theoretic arguments. On the other hand, the model theory of tame AECs is much easier to develop, as evidenced by the results presented below.\n\nThe following are some important results about tame AECs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34648174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34648174", "title": "The Principle of Hope", "text": "The Principle of Hope\n\nThe Principle of Hope () is a book by the Marxist philosopher Ernst Bloch, published in three volumes in 1954, 1955, and 1959, in which the author explores utopianism, studying the utopian impulses present in art, literature, religion and other forms of cultural expression, and envisages a future state of absolute perfection. \"The Principle of Hope\" has become fundamental to dialogue between Christians and Marxists. \n\nOriginally written between 1938 and 1947 in the United States, an enlarged and revised version of \"The Principle of Hope\" was published successively in three volumes in 1954, 1955, and 1959. Bloch, who had emigrated to the United States in 1938, returned to Europe in 1949 and became a Professor of Philosophy in East Germany. Despite having initially supported the regime, Bloch came under attack for his philosophical unorthodoxy and support for greater cultural freedom in East Germany, and publication of \"The Principle of Hope\" was delayed for political reasons.\n\nThe philosopher Leszek Kołakowski calls \"The Principle of Hope\" Bloch's \"magnum opus\", writing that it contains all his important ideas. The work has been described as \"monumental\" by the philosopher Robert S. Corrington and the psychoanalyst Joel Kovel.\n"}
{"id": "41356490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41356490", "title": "Thermal time hypothesis", "text": "Thermal time hypothesis\n\nThe thermal time hypothesis is a possible solution to the problem of time in classical and quantum theory as has been put forward by Carlo Rovelli and Alain Connes. Physical time flow is modeled as a fundamental property of the theory, a macroscopic feature of thermodynamical origin.\n\nGenerally covariant theories do not have a notion of a distinguished physical time with respect to which everything evolves. However, it is not needed for the full formulation and interpretation of the theory. The dynamical laws are determined by correlations which are sufficient to make predictions. But then a mechanism is needed which explains how the familiar notion of time eventually emerges from the timeless structure to become such an important ingredient of the macroscopic world we live in as well as of our conscious experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "54479442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54479442", "title": "Thomas Brewer (activist)", "text": "Thomas Brewer (activist)\n\nThomas Hency Brewer, Sr. (1894-1956) was an African-American physician, born on November 19, 1894, in Saco, Alabama, who was instrumental in the civil rights movement in Columbus, Georgia during the early- to mid-20th century, before he was assassinated in 1956.\n\nDr. Thomas Brewer was born in Saco, Alabama, graduated from Selma University in Selma, Alabama, then from Meharry Medical College in Nashville, Tennessee, and moved to Columbus, Georgia in 1920. He became a respected physician and one of Columbus' most prominent civil rights activists, succeeding in the desegregation of the Columbus Police Department, being one of the founders of the city's NAACP chapter, and as a supporter of Primus King, among other advocacies. He was active in the Republican Party, serving as a delegate to the GOP National Convention in Philadelphia.\n\nOn July 4, 1944, Primus E. King, an African-American registered voter, went to the Muscogee County Courthouse in Columbus to cast his vote in the Democratic Party’s primary election. He was turned away by law enforcement. Dr. Brewer encouraged and financially supported Mr. King in his lawsuit filed in federal court, styled \"King v. Chapman\". In a landmark ruling, the court found in Mr. King's favor, deciding that the exclusion of black voters was unconstitutional. The U.S. Court of Appeals agreed, which ended the State of Georgia's \"whites only\" primaries.\n\nDr. Brewer shared an office building on First Street in Columbus with the F&B Department store, owned by Luico Flowers. In 1956, the two men witnessed a beating of a black man by police outside of the building. Dr. Brewer and Mr. Flowers argued about the incident: Dr. Brewer believed the police officer used excessive force and Mr. Flowers disagreed. About a week later, on February 18, 1956, Mr. Flowers shot Dr. Brewer seven times and killed him, claiming self-defense. The grand jury believed Mr. Flowers' account of the incident and he was not charged. A year later, Mr. Flowers was found shot dead, in what authorities determined was a suicide.\n\nApproximately 2,500 mourners showed up for Dr. Brewer's funeral at the First African Baptist Church on Fifth Avenue.\n\nLillian \"Bunky\" McClung, the daughter of the first African-American mayor of Columbus, A.J. McClung, recalled the death of Dr. Brewer in a 2015 interview with the Columbus Ledger-Enquirer newspaper: \"Dr. Brewer had been the person behind motivating the people in this community to want more. ... I remember that day he was shot. I remember when my daddy got that phone call and he ran out the door. ... There were several dentists, several doctors in the community ... they all left when Dr Brewer was shot.\" Brewer's wife and daughter left the city, as did Brewer's attorney and several other prominent physicians and businessmen, including Dr. W.G. McCoo, his spouse, Dr. Mary McCoo and their children, including their young daughter Marilyn McCoo.\n\nA historical marker placed at the site of his assassination reads \"Dr. Thomas H. Brewer - A Pike County, Alabama native of African-American descent, Dr. Brewer was born November 16, 1894. His office was located at 1025½ First Avenue. Brewer emerged as a chief spokesman for the civil rights of the Negro and was described by Roy Wilkins of the NAACP as a 'fearless champion of the rights of his people.' His goal to guarantee the Negro the right to vote throughout the State of Georgia and the South was achieved in the Primus King case in 1945. He was a leader of the local chapter of the NAACP and worked tirelessly for racial equality. Brewer was killed by gunshots February 18, 1956 near this site.\"\n\nBrewer Elementary School in Columbus is named in honor of Dr. Brewer.\n\nBy Proclamation issued by the Mayor of Columbus and the Governor of Georgia in 1989, November 19 is designated as \"Dr. Thomas H. Brewer, Sr. Day\" in the State of Georgia.\n"}
{"id": "3893690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3893690", "title": "Trait (computer programming)", "text": "Trait (computer programming)\n\nIn computer programming, a trait is a concept used in object-oriented programming, which represents a set of methods that can be used to extend the functionality of a class.\n\nTraits both provide a set of methods that implement behaviour to a class, and require that the class implement a set of methods that parameterize the provided behaviour.\n\nFor inter-object communication, traits are somewhat between an object-oriented protocol (interface) and a mixin. An interface may define one or more behaviors via method signatures, while a trait defines behaviors via full method definitions: i.e., it includes the body of the methods. In contrast, mixins include full method definitions and may also carry state through member variable, while traits usually don't.\n\nHence an object defined as a trait is created as the composition of methods, which can be used by other classes without requiring multiple inheritance. In case of a naming collision, when more than one trait to be used by a class has a method with the same name, the programmer must explicitly disambiguate which one of those methods will be used in the class; thus manually solving the \"diamond problem\" of multiple inheritance. This is different from other composition methods in object-oriented programming, where conflicting names are automatically resolved by scoping rules.\n\nWhereas mixins can be composed only using the inheritance operation, traits offer a much wider selection of operations, including:\n\nTraits are composed in the following ways:\n\nTraits come originally from the programming language Self and are supported by the following programming languages:\n\n\nThis example uses a trait to enhance other classes:\nThis allows simulating aspects of multiple inheritance:\nA trait in Rust declares a set of methods that a type must implement. Rust compilers require traits to be explicated, which ensures the safety of generics in Rust. It also helps to avoid major problems of template in C++. \n// type T must have the \"Ord\" trait\n// so that \">\" and \"<\" operations can be done\nfn get_max<T: Ord>(a: &[T]) -> Option<&T> {\n\nTo simplify tedious and repeated implementation of traits like codice_3 and codice_4, codice_5 can be used to request compilers to generate certain codes automatically. Derivable traits include: codice_6, codice_7, codice_3, codice_9, codice_10, codice_11, codice_12, codice_4 and codice_14.\n\n"}
{"id": "25392861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25392861", "title": "Tribe (Internet)", "text": "Tribe (Internet)\n\nThe term tribe or digital tribe is used as a slang term for an unofficial community of people who share a common interest, and usually who are loosely affiliated with each other through social media or other Internet mechanisms. The term is related to \"tribe\", which traditionally refers to people closely associated in both geography and genealogy. Nowadays, it looks more like a virtual community or a personal network and it is often called global digital tribe. Most anthropologists agree that a tribe is a (small) society that practices its own customs and culture, and that these define the tribe. The tribes are divided into clans, with their own customs and cultural values that differentiate them from activities that occur in 'real life' contexts. People feel more inclined to share and defend their ideas on social networks than they would dare to say to someone face to face. For example, it would be ridiculous to 'poke' someone in real life.\n\nThe term \"tribe\" originated around the time of the Greek city-states and the early formation of the Roman Empire. The Latin term \"tribus\" has since been transformed to mean \"\"A group of persons forming a community and claiming descent from a common ancestor\" (Oxford English Dictionary, IX, 1933, p. 339, as cited in Fried, 1975, p. 7). As years passed by, the range of meanings have grown greater, for example, \"Any of various systems of social organization comprising several local villages, bands, districts, lineages, or other groups and sharing a common ancestry, language, culture, and name\" (Morris, 1980, p. 1369). Morris (1980) also notes that a tribe is a \"group of persons with a common occupation, interest, or habit,\" and \"a large family.\"\" Vestiges of ancient tribe communities were preserved in both large gatherings (like football matches) and in small ones (like church communities). Even though nowadays the range of groups referred to as tribal is truly enormous, it wasn't until the industrial society eroded the tribal gatherings of more primitive societies and redefined community. However, the existence of social media as we know it today is due to the post-industrial society that has seen the rapid growth of personal computers, mobile phones and the Internet. People now can collaborate, communicate, celebrate, commemorate, give their advice and share their ideas around these virtual clans that have once again redefined the social behaviour.\n\nThe first attempt of such social communities dates back to at least 2003, when tribe.net was launched.\n\nTribe Networks is the driving force behind tribe.net, which is a website similar to other social networking sites. Users can create their own profiles and join networks, called 'tribes', based on common interests. Moreover, members can post job offers and event recommendations. Tribe serves 50 metropolitan markets, its largest being the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., and New York City. The firm was found in July 2003 by Mark Pincus, Paul Martino and Valerie Syme, with the goal of connecting local people for what Pincus described as \"an online cocktail party where people are getting leads through their friends. So people are there to have fun and connect and meet new people.\" Soon the site caught the attention of Knight Ridder, The Washington Post Company and blue chip venture firm Mayfield, which both totally invested around $6.3 million in venture capital. After three months of activity, Tribe brought together 48,000 registered users and 6,900 distinct tribes, earning revenue from job postings and class fields.\n\nNot only do Twitter tribes have mutual interests, but they also share potentially subconscious language features as found in the 2013 study by researchers from Royal Holloway University of London and Princeton. Dr. John Bryden from the School of Biological Sciences at Royal Holloway states that it is possible to anticipate which community somebody is likely to belong to, with up to 80 percent accuracy. This research shows that people try to join societies based on the same interests and hobbies. In order to achieve this, publicly available messages were sent via Twitter to record conversations between two or more participants. As a result, each community can be characterised by their most used words. This approach can enrich new communities detection based on word analysis in order to automatically classify people inside social networks. The methods of identification of tribes relied heavily on algorithms and techniques from statistical physics, computational biology and network science.\n\nA different approach is taken by Tribefinder. The system is able to identify tribal affiliations of Twitter users using deep learning and machine learning. The system establishes to which tribes individuals belong through the analysis of their tweets and the comparison of their vocabulary. These tribal vocabularies are previously generated based on the vocabulary of tribal influencers and leaders using keywords expressing concepts, ideas and beliefs. \n\nThe final step to make the system learn on how to associate random individuals with specific tribes consists of the analysis of the language these influential tribal leaders use through deep learning. In so doing, classifiers are created using embedding and LSTM (long short-term memory) models. Specifically, these classifiers work by collecting the Twitter feeds of all the users from the tribes that Tribefinder is training on. On these, embedding is applied to map words into vectors, which are then used as input for the following LSTM models. Tribefinder analyzes the individual’s word usage in their tweets and then assigns the corresponding alternative realities, lifestyle, and recreation tribal affiliation based on the similarities with the specific tribal vocabularies. \n\nThe research had four main stages on which it focused: background, results, conclusions and methods.\n\nThe language is a system of communication consisting of sounds, words, and grammar, or the system of communication used by people in a particular country or type of work. Language is perhaps the most important characteristic that distinguishes human beings from other animals. In addition, it has a wide range of social implications that can be associated with social or cultural groups. People usually group in communities with the same interests. This will result in a variation of the words they use because of the differentiation of terms from each domain. Therefore, the hypothesis of this study would be that this variation should closely match the community structure of the network. To test this theory, around 250,000 users from the social networking and microblogging site Twitter were monitored in order to analyse whether the groups identified had the same language features or not. As Twitter uses unstructured data and users can send messages to any other users, the study had to be based on complex algorithms. These algorithms had to determine the word frequency inside messages between people and make a link to the groups they usually visited.\n\nThe problem of detecting the community features is one of the main issues in the study of networking systems. Social networks naturally tend to divide themselves into communities or modules. However, some world networks are too big so they must be simplified before information can be extracted. As a result, an effective way of dealing with this drawback for smaller communities is by using \"modularity\" algorithms in order to partition users into even smaller groups. For larger ones, a more efficient algorithm called 'map equation' decomposes a network into modules by optimally compressing a description of information flows on the network. Each community was therefore characterised according to the words they used the most, based on a ranking algorithm. To determine the significance of word usage differences, word endings and word lengths were also measured and showed that the pattern found was the correct one. Moreover, these studies also helped in predicting community membership of users, by comparing their own word frequencies with community word usage. This helped in forecasting which community a certain user is going to access based on the words that they are using.\n\nThe aim of this research was to study the bond between community structure in a social network environment and language use within the community . The striking pattern that was found suggests that people from different clans tend to use different words based on their own interests and hobbies. This study can show how people make friends based on the same vocabulary range that they use. Even though this approach didn't manage to cover all people inside Twitter, it has several advantages over ordinary surveys that cover a smaller scale of groups: it is systematic, it is non-intrusive and it easily produces large volumes of rich data. Moreover, other cultural characteristics can be found out when extending this study. For example, whether individuals that belong to multiple communities use different word sets in each of them.\n\nA process called snowball-sampling helped forming the sample network. Each user's tweets and messages were recorded and any new users referenced were added to a list from where they were picked to be sampled. Messages that were copies have been ignored. In order to find out the words that characterise each clan, the fraction of people that use a certain word was compared with the fraction of people that use that word globally. The difference between communities has also been measured by comparing the relative word usage frequency. Last but not least, individual word usage was compared with each community word usage to pick the best matching clan for individual users.\n\nWords, and the way we spell them are in a continuous change, as we find new ways to communicate. Despite the fact that traditional dictionaries don't take into account the changes, online ones have adopted many of them. An interesting fact outlined in the research above is that communities tend to use their own misspelt words. According to Professor Vincent Jansen from Royal Holloway communities would misspell words in different ways, just as people have different regional accents. For example, Justin Bieber fans tend to end words in \"ee\" as in \"pleasee\", while school teachers tend to use long words. Moreover, the largest group found in the study was composed of African Americans who were using the words \"nigga\", \"poppin\", and \"chillin\". Members of this community also had the common habit of shortening the ends of the words, replacing \"ing\" with \"in\" and \"er\" with \"a\".\n\nEach tribe has an online-platform (such as Flickr or Tumblr), called campfire around which they gather. These campfires tend to enable one or more of the following three tribal activities:\nHowever, some brands are building their own tribes around platforms outside of these.\n\nCooperation is the action of working together to the same end. Cooperation developed naturally over time, as it helped companies to streamline their research costs and to better answer to users' requirements. As a result, nowadays organisations are looking for flexible structures that can easily adapt to this rapidly changing environment. Groupware systems perfectly cater to these needs of companies. Informal communication predominates and specialists in certain domains exchange their experience with other people within the groupware environment. Collaboration and cooperation are available through instant messages; people can discuss, chat and swap ideas. Moreover, people can work together while they are located remotely from each other. Groupware can be split into three categories: communication, collaboration and coordination, depending on the level of cooperation and technology involved in the process. One of the biggest and well-known cooperation software is Wikipedia.\nWikipedia is a collaborative software because anyone can edit it. You can edit articles, view past revisions and discuss through a forum the current state of each article. Due to the fact that anyone can change it and find information very quickly, it has become one of the 10 most accessed sites on the Internet.\n\nWikipedia has many advantages over other encyclopedias:\n\nHowever, there are also some drawbacks:\n\nCommunication is the act or an instance of communicating; the imparting or exchange of information, ideas, or feelings. Communication has drastically changed over time and social networks have changed the way people communicate. Even though people]can interact with each other 24/7, there is a new wave of barriers and threats. In the workplace environment, electronic Communication has overtaken face-to-face and voice-to-voice Communication by far. This major shift has been done in advantage of Generation Y, who prefer instant messaging than talking directly to someone. It is often said that it could become an ironic twist, but social media has the real potential of making us less social. However, there are studies that confirm that people are becoming more social, but the style in which they interact with each other has changed a lot. One of the major drawbacks of social networks is privacy, as people tend to trust others more rapidly and send more open messages about themselves. As a result, personal information can be easily exposed to other persons. Twitter and Facebook are two of the biggest social networks in the world.\n\nFacebook is currently the largest social network in the world with more than 1 billion people using this website. This actually means that one in seven people on Earth use Facebook. Facebook users share their stories, images and videos in order to celebrate and commemorate events together. They can also play social games and like other Facebook pages. Moreover, there is also a section called \"News Feed\" where users can see social information from their friends or from the pages that they liked or shared. Each user has their own profile page that is called 'wall', where they can post all the above-mentioned materials (their friends can do this as well). The biggest advantage of Facebook is that you can make new friends, as well as find old acquaintances and restart socialising with them. One of the most useful feature of Facebook is the existence of groups. Users with the same interests can create a new group or take part in already existing ones to debate information and exchange their ideas. However, there are also groups that are created to declare an affiliation, such as an obsession for different subjects.\n\nTwitter is another social network that allows users to send and read short messages called 'tweets'. Even though messages can contain only 140 characters, this is the perfect length for sending status updates to followers. The main advantage of Twitter is that people can gain followers quickly and share ideas and links very fast. There are networks of influential people who can be connected via Twitter. On Twitter, tribes manifest themselves as followers of either a person, a company or an institution. As a result, it can be used as a marketing tool to make someone's product visible, on condition that a big tribe of followers is created. In order to do this, the right community must be built, as finding the right people can be a challenge. There are some steps that users could take into account in order to make connections and therefore make people follow them: search using Twitter search, follow the followers of other users, look at Twitter Lists, use #Hashtags and find third-party programs.\n\nCognition is the mental action or process of acquiring knowledge and understanding through thought, experience and senses. People like to share their ideas and gather together via blogs. A blog is an online journal where people express themselves and want to get their voice heard. People tend to frequent blog communities due to the fact that they offer specific information in which the reader is interested. There are also business blogs that can be used to share information within a company. These can be used as a flexible medium, where employees can be informed about topics that can range from the use of new technology to the company policies. On blogs, people tend to gather in tribes or clans if they find information that can satisfy their interests. In order to accomplish this goal, bloggers title their postings in such way that they can catch people's attention. The biggest advantage of blogs is that bloggers tend to help each other when someone feels at a loss due to the fact that some bonds might have been created inside the community.\n\nAs Seth Godin states, \"The Internet eliminated geography\". People join tribes or clans because they find and share the same ideas and interests with other people. The main disadvantage of old tribes is that they couldn't influence group behaviour. On the other hand, new tribes are self-sustaining and can survive without a leader, they are not necessarily dialogue based and they are long lasting. As it has been demonstrated within this article, tribes have influenced the way languages, organisations and cultures work. They have redefined old concepts with the help of social media and have changed the way people will interact in the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33827415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33827415", "title": "Unconscious cognition", "text": "Unconscious cognition\n\nUnconscious cognition is the processing of perception, memory, learning, thought, and language without being aware of it.\n\nThe role of the unconscious mind on decision making is a topic greatly debated by neuroscientists, linguists and psychologists around the world. Though the actual level of involvement of the unconscious brain during a cognitive process might still be a matter of differential opinion, the fact that the unconscious brain does play a role in cognitive activity is undeniable. Several experiments and well recorded phenomena attest to this fact, for example the illusion-of-truth effect. There have also been several experiments suggesting that the unconscious mind might actually be better at decision making than the conscious mind when there are multiple variables to take into consideration.\n\nThe attitude of the scientific community towards the unconscious mind has undergone a drastic change from being viewed as a lazy reservoir of memories and non-task oriented behavior to being regarded as an active and essential component in the processes of decision making.\n\nHistorically, the unconscious mind has been viewed as the source of dreams, implicit memory (which allows people to walk or ride a bicycle without consciously thinking about the activity), and the storing place for memories. But new insight revealing that the unconscious brain might also be an active player in decision making, problem solving, creative writing and critical thinking have revolutionized the predominant view of the importance of the unconscious on cognitive processes. One familiar example of the operation of the unconscious in problem solving is a well-known phenomenon of having a \"Eureka!\" moment when a solution to a problem in the past presents itself without the involvement of active thinking.\n\nCurrently, several experiments are being performed to measure the extent of unconscious' influence on conscious thought.\n\nSigmund Freud is perhaps the most well-known psychologist and his theories laid the foundation for the serious scientific investigation of the unconscious brain. Consciousness, according to Freud, was the center for perception whereas the unconscious was the storehouse of memories, desires, and needs. According to Freud past thoughts and memories which are deleted from conscious thought are stored by the unconscious and these thoughts help direct the thoughts and feelings of an individual and influence their decision making processes. Freud believed that the Unconscious' influence on thoughts can be accessed by training one’s mind through meditation, or by random association, dream analysis and paying attention to Freudian slips.\n\nCarl Jung further expounded Freud’s view of the unconscious and categorized the unconscious into the personal unconscious and the collective unconscious. He believed that the personal unconscious held memories and experiences specific to every individual and the collective unconscious held memories, predispositions and experiences of a species which are passed on from generation to generation and are shared among all the individuals of a species.\n\nJacques Lacan in his psychoanalytical theory compared the structuring of the unconscious to the way a language is structured. According to his theory there is no reference to self thus making the unconscious a dynamic structure. This suggests that unconscious influence on thought processes could be altered after traumatic brain injury. This theory could explain the cases of altered personality, like Phineas Gage, due to trauma or traumatic brain injury.\n\nTo establish unconscious perception a demonstration of the absence of some critical stimulus is established and the effect of the same stimulus on behavior is tested. To establish the absence of the stimulus, the degree to which a critical stimulus reaches conscious awareness is assessed, by testing whether a subject can acknowledge or perceive the presence of the stimulus. This is called a direct measure (D) of processing, as the task requires some type of direct report on the perception of the critical stimulus from the subject. Also, one must assess the degree to which the stimulus affects a certain behavior. This process is the indirect measure (I) as responses of something other than the critical stimulus is measured.\n\nThese measurements are associated to the dissociation logic, a foundational assumption that has dictated research into unconscious cognition for over a century now, according to which a cognitive phenomenon is strictly either conscious or unconscious. In fact, it has now the status of a scientific paradigm, but criticism has started to fall upon it, with calls for a paradigm shift in the field.\n\nIt has been well established that the unconscious plays a vital role in perception and data analysis. The numerous examples of optical illusions, hallucinations and other tricks that the unconscious brain plays on the conscious brain provide ample evidence of the active role of the unconscious mind during data gathering and analysis. Several experiments have been performed to show that the unconscious brain is able to gather data at a much faster rate than the conscious brain and also that the unconscious brain filters out a great amount of information and can use this information to influence cognitive decision making processes.\n\nVilayanur S. Ramachandran in his research proved that the unconscious brain not only screens certain data from the conscious brain, rendering visual data inaccurate, but also is responsible for filling in false data in place of missing data in certain circumstances. In his paper on \"Perceptual filling in of artificially induced scotomas in human vision\" he records the effect of the unconscious brain filling in the blind spots in the human visual field.\n\nSubliminal messages also utilize the phenomenon of the unconscious brain processing messages faster than the conscious brain and also noticing data in a visual or auditory field that remain below the threshold of the conscious brain. come in various forms. They can be quick clips inserted within another video or barely perceptible text inscribed in a picture.\nThese messages flutter on the edge of perception and are almost impossible to notice unless and until one's conscious brain is called to pay attention to these minute details. Modern day ads, posters and even shows and movies which are broadcast around the world use subliminal messages to unconsciously attract an individual or manipulate an individual to unconscious like a product or a show.\n\nStudies that test the way in which humans acquire language skills and learn how to apply the rules of grammar show that a large amount of language and grammar learning takes place unconsciously. Experiments were performed in which participants were asked to identify whether certain nonsensical and made up words belong to a group of words which they had been previously shown. Some participants were not informed that the word sets were based on rules. An analysis of their responses showed that the participants were more likely to associate words which were not shown previously as a part of the group if they followed the preset grammatical rules. This shows that it might not be necessary to be consciously aware of grammatical rules to know proper grammar. This theory might explain the feeling we undergo when we feel that a certain sentence structure is awkward or wrong even though we might not be able to clearly define the reason why the sentence is incorrect.\n\nImplicit egotism refers to the unconscious tendency of people to prefer things that resemble the self. In studies performed to test the effect of implicit egotism it has been shown that implicit egotism does in fact play a significant role in processes that influence major life decisions. Studies show that inexplicably people choose partners whose name is phonetically or structurally similar to their own names. This effect of implicit egotism is not only limited to relationship decisions but can also be seen in decisions regarding place or city of residence and arguable in almost every other aspect of life.\n\nThe unconscious mind's tendency to make associations can have a significant effect on decision making processes. For example, we generally associate a green traffic light as a sign to keep proceeding while we associate a red traffic light as a sign to come to a halt. If in an experimental setting a person attuned to these associations was asked to come to a halt when shown a green light and keep moving when shown a red light, the individual would have to make a conscious effort to follow these new set of rules.The associations of the unconscious mind lead to the creation of implicit attitudes. An implicit attitude manifests itself as an action or judgment that is under the control of automatically activated evaluation, without the performer's awareness of that causation. Implicit attitudes can have a profound effect on decision making when automatic implicit associations are made in socially significant ways. Based on unconscious racial prejudice, sexist attitudes and nepotism might have a huge bearing in the real world as one might unconsciously show favoritism due to implicit attitudes.\n\nExperiments were performed to measure the decision making prowess of the unconscious mind and they showed that when there are multiple variables to be considered in a given decision making situation, the unconscious mind can actually be a better decision maker than the conscious mind.\n\nAp Dijksterhuis in his experiments to measure the effectiveness of the unconscious brain in its decision making abilities performed 3 experiments that involved choosing or evaluating different alternatives based on positive and negative attributes. Participants were divided in 3 groups and different groups were allowed come to a conclusion about the alternatives in different ways. The first group was asked to come up with instantaneous evaluations, the second group was asked to come up with an evaluation after careful consideration (consciously) and the third group was asked to come with an evaluation after a period of time in which they were distracted by another task, which occupied their consciousness, unconsciously. It was proven in all three experiments that the group which was allowed to think about the different alternatives unconsciously stumbled upon the right evaluations and picked the alternatives with the most positive attributes more often than the other 2 groups.\n\nAxel Cleeremans, a professor of cognitive science with the Department of Psychology of the Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, in his paper \"The radical plasticity thesis: how the brain learns to be conscious\", proposed the idea that conscious brain is a product of unconscious brain's attempts at predicting the consequences of its actions on the external world. The paper also states that the activity of one cerebral region and its effect on the other regions of the brain. According to \"radical plasticity\" thesis, thinking and reasoning are the products of the unconscious mind's ability to decipher and process countless possibilities and predict the consequences of taking a certain course of action. In contrast, the conscious mind is only able to process the outcomes of no more than a couple of courses of action during decision making.\n\nThe brain unconsciously learns to re-describe its own activity to itself in terms of possibilities and probabilities and generates a method to allow activate certain parts of its anatomy to help engender the most profitable outcome. These learned re-descriptions, enriched by the emotional value associated with them, form the basis of conscious experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "170634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170634", "title": "Wabi-sabi", "text": "Wabi-sabi\n\nIn traditional Japanese aesthetics, is a world view centered on the acceptance of transience and imperfection. The aesthetic is sometimes described as one of beauty that is \"imperfect, impermanent, and incomplete\". It is a concept derived from the Buddhist teaching of the , specifically , and .\n\nCharacteristics of the \"wabi-sabi\" aesthetic include asymmetry, roughness, simplicity, economy, austerity, modesty, intimacy, and appreciation of the ingenuous integrity of natural objects and processes.\n\nAccording to Leonard Koren, \"wabi-sabi\" can be defined as \"the most conspicuous and characteristic feature of traditional Japanese beauty and it occupies roughly the same position in the Japanese pantheon of aesthetic values as do the Greek ideals of beauty and perfection in the far West.\" Whereas Andrew Juniper notes that \"If an object or expression can bring about, within us, a sense of serene melancholy and a spiritual longing, then that object could be said to be wabi-sabi.\" For Richard Powell, \"Wabi-sabi nurtures all that is authentic by acknowledging three simple realities: nothing lasts, nothing is finished, and nothing is perfect.\"\n\nThe words \"wabi\" and \"sabi\" do not translate easily. \"Wabi\" originally referred to the loneliness of living in nature, remote from society; \"sabi\" meant \"chill\", \"lean\" or \"withered\". Around the 14th century these meanings began to change, taking on more positive connotations. \"Wabi\" now connotes rustic simplicity, freshness or quietness, and can be applied to both natural and human-made objects, or understated elegance. It can also refer to quirks and anomalies arising from the process of construction, which add uniqueness and elegance to the object. \"Sabi\" is beauty or serenity that comes with age, when the life of the object and its impermanence are evidenced in its patina and wear, or in any visible repairs.\n\nAfter centuries of incorporating artistic and Buddhist influences from China, wabi-sabi eventually evolved into a distinctly Japanese ideal. Over time, the meanings of \"wabi\" and \"sabi\" shifted to become more lighthearted and hopeful. Around 700 years ago, particularly among the Japanese nobility, understanding emptiness and imperfection was honored as tantamount to the first step to satori, or enlightenment. In today's Japan, the meaning of wabi-sabi is often condensed to \"wisdom in natural simplicity\". In art books, it is typically defined as \"flawed beauty\".\n\nFrom an engineering or design point of view, \"wabi\" may be interpreted as the imperfect quality of any object, due to inevitable limitations in design and construction/manufacture especially with respect to unpredictable or changing usage conditions; then \"sabi\" could be interpreted as the aspect of imperfect reliability, or limited mortality of any object, hence the phonological and etymological connection with the Japanese word sabi, . Although the kanji characters for \"rust\" is not the same in \"wabi-sabi\", the original spoken word (pre-kanji, \"yamato-kotoba\") is believed to be one and the same.\n\nA good example of this embodiment may be seen in certain styles of Japanese pottery. In the Japanese tea ceremony, the pottery items used are often rustic and simple-looking, e.g. Hagi ware, with shapes that are not quite symmetrical, and colors or textures that appear to emphasize an unrefined or simple style. In fact, it is up to the knowledge and observational ability of the participant to notice and discern the hidden signs of a truly excellent design or glaze (akin to the appearance of a diamond in the rough). This may be interpreted as a kind of wabi-sabi aesthetic, further confirmed by the way the colour of glazed items is known to change over time as hot water is repeatedly poured into them (\"sabi\") and the fact that tea bowls are often deliberately chipped or nicked at the bottom (\"wabi\"), which serves as a kind of signature of the \"Hagi-yaki\" style.\n\n\"Wabi\" and \"sabi\" both suggest sentiments of desolation and solitude. In the Mahayana Buddhist view of the universe, these may be viewed as positive characteristics, representing liberation from a material world and transcendence to a simpler life. Mahayana philosophy itself, however, warns that genuine understanding cannot be achieved through words or language, so accepting wabi-sabi on nonverbal terms may be the most appropriate approach. Simon Brown notes that wabi-sabi describes a means whereby students can learn to live life through the senses and better engage in life as it happens, rather than be caught up in unnecessary thoughts. In this sense wabi-sabi is the material representation of Zen Buddhism. The idea is that being surrounded by natural, changing, unique objects helps us connect to our real world and escape potentially stressful distractions.\n\nIn one sense wabi-sabi is a training whereby the student of wabi-sabi learns to find the most basic, natural objects interesting, fascinating and beautiful. Fading autumn leaves would be an example. Wabi-sabi can change our perception of the world to the extent that a chip or crack in a vase makes it more interesting and gives the object greater meditative value. Similarly materials that age such as bare wood, paper and fabric become more interesting as they exhibit changes that can be observed over time.\n\nThe \"wabi\" and \"sabi\" concepts are religious in origin, but actual usage of the words in Japanese is often quite casual because of the syncretic nature of Japanese belief.\n\nMany Japanese arts over the past thousand years have been influenced by Zen and Mahayana philosophy, particularly acceptance and contemplation of the imperfection, constant flux and impermanence of all things. Such arts can exemplify a wabi-sabi aesthetic. Examples include:\n\nA contemporary Japanese appraisal of this concept is found in the influential essay \"In Praise of Shadows\" by Jun'ichirō Tanizaki.\n\nDesigner Leonard Koren (born 1948) in 1994 published \"Wabi-Sabi for Artists, Designers, Poets & Philosophers\" as an examination of wabi-sabi, contrasting it with Western ideals of beauty. According to Penelope Green, Koren's book subsequently \"became a talking point for a wasteful culture intent on penitence and a touchstone for designers of all stripes.\"\n\nPotter Bernard Leach (1887–1979) was deeply influenced by Japanese aesthetics and techniques and founded an influential European aesthetic movement which also included Dame Lucy Rie and Hans Coper.\n\nSome haiku in English adapt the wabi-sabi aesthetic, with spare, minimalist poems that evoke loneliness and transience, such as Nick Virgilio's \"autumn twilight:/ the wreath on the door/ lifts in the wind\".\n\nThe work of American artist John Connell (born 1940) is centered on the idea of wabi.\n\nFormer Stuckist artist and remodernist filmmaker Jesse Richards (born 1975) employs it in nearly all of his work, along with mono no aware.\n\nDuring the 1990s the concept was borrowed by computer software developers and employed in Agile programming and Wiki to describe acceptance of the state of ongoing imperfection that is the product of these methods.\n\nOn 16 March 2009, Marcel Theroux presented \"In Search of Wabi Sabi\" on BBC Four as part of the channel's \"Hidden Japan\" season of programming. Theroux traveled throughout Japan trying to understand the aesthetic tastes of its people, beginning by comically enacting a challenge from the book \"Living Wabi Sabi\" by Taro Gold to \"ask people on a Tokyo street to describe Wabi Sabi.\" Theroux showed that, just as Gold predicted, \"they will likely give you a polite shrug and explain that Wabi Sabi is simply unexplainable.\" \n\nJack Dorsey, the billionaire founder of Twitter and Square, promotes the Wabi-sabi philosophy of design.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "727594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=727594", "title": "Yun Posun", "text": "Yun Posun\n\nYun Posun (; or ; August 26, 1897 – July 18, 1990) was a Korean independence activist and politician, who served as President of South Korea from 1960 to 1962 before being replaced by the long-serving Park Chung-hee as a result of the May 16 coup in 1961.\n\nHaving entered politics after World War II, Yun served as Secretary to Korea's Chief of Staff in 1947; and was Mayor of Seoul in 1948. He served as Commerce Minister for the newly liberated Korea from 1949–1950. In 1955 Yun helped establish the South Korean Democratic Party.\n\nYun Posun was born in Dunpo-myeon, Asan, South Chungcheong Province in 1897. He was a son of Yun Chiso (윤치소, 1871–1944) and Lady Yi Beomsuk (이범숙, 1876–1969). Yun studied in the United Kingdom, graduating with a Master of Arts from the University of Edinburgh in 1930. He returned to Korea in 1932.\n\nYun entered politics in 1945 following Gwangbokjeol (Liberation Day). The first Doctor of Philosophy from Princeton University in Korea, as well as first President of South Korea, Dr. Syngman Rhee, was his mentor. By 1947, Yun was serving as Secretary to the Korean Chief of Staff. In 1948, Rhee appointed Yun to the position of mayor of Seoul. A year later, he was made Minister of Commerce and Industry. However, Yun soon began to disagree with Rhee's authoritarian policies.\n\nWhile serving as president of the Red Cross Society, he was elected to the National Assembly in 1954. A year later, he co-founded the opposition South Korean Democratic Party. In 1959, he became a representative to the Supreme Council of the Democratic Party.\n\nRhee's government was ousted by a student-led, pro-democracy uprising in 1960; and Yun was elected president on August 13, and appointed Chang Myon as First Minister. In response to the authoritarian excesses of Rhee's regime, South Korea had switched to a parliamentary system; so in fact Yun served merely as a figurehead.\n\nFollowing Park Chung Hee's coup in 1961, Yun stayed in his post in order to provide some legitimacy to the new regime, but resigned on March 22, 1962. In the following years, Yun received suspended sentences several times for anti-government activities. He opposed Park's authoritarian rule and ran for president twice, in 1963 and 1967, losing each time.\n\nYun retired from active politics in 1980 and focused his life on cultural activities until his death on July 18, 1990.\n\n\n\n\n"}
