{"id": "51942624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51942624", "title": "2016 California Proposition 57", "text": "2016 California Proposition 57\n\nProposition 57 was a initiated California ballot proposition, approved on the November 8, 2016 ballot. The Proposition allows parole consideration for nonviolent felons, changes policies on juvenile prosecution, and authorizes sentence credits for rehabilitation, good behavior, and education. The passage and implementation of the proposition may allow the state to save tens of millions of dollars each year. Due to the approval of the proposition, the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation will begin to implement these new parole and sentencing provisions.\n\nProposition 57 allows the parole board to release nonviolent prisoners once they have served the full sentence for their primary criminal offense. Previously, prisoners were often required to serve extra time by a sentence enhancement, such as those for repeated offenders. In addition, Proposition 57 requires the Department of Corrections to develop uniform parole credits, which reward prisoners' good behavior with reduced sentences.\n\nThis proposition allows juvenile court judges to determine whether or not juveniles aged fourteen and older should be prosecuted and sentenced as an adult, repealing California Proposition 21, which was passed in March 2000. Proposition 21 gave prosecutors the sole authority to decide whether to try a young offender as a juvenile or adult.\n\nProposition 57’s proponents sought to restore juvenile court judges’ authority over juvenile offenders. The California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation has been under federal court supervision since the Supreme Court of the United States found that California’s prison overcrowding constitutes cruel and unusual punishment (\"Brown v. Plata, 2011).\" Governor Brown added to Proposition 57, amending the Constitution of California to reduce this overcrowding.\n\nProponents of the measure spent $11.75 million. The top contribution was $4.14 million raised by Governor Brown. Other proponents responsible for significant contributions included the California Democratic Party, Tom Steyer, Reed Hastings, and the Open Philanthropy Project. The measure was also supported by the editorial boards of the \"Los Angeles Times\", the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", and \"The Sacramento Bee\".\n\nOpponents of the Proposition argued that it would release potentially dangerous criminals due to improper classification of crimes as non-violent. \n\nOpponents of the Proposition spent $641,326 fighting against the measure. Opponents that made high contributions included Los Angeles County police unions and a prosecutor lobbying group.\n\nProposition 57 was approved by voters in the November General Election, with 64.46% voting in favor.\n\n"}
{"id": "37970718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37970718", "title": "Alix Pasquet", "text": "Alix Pasquet\n\nAlix Pasquet (unknown–1958) was a World War II fighter pilot, one of only five Haitian members of the Tuskegee Airmen, a soccer star, and a political revolutionary. He was killed while leading a coup attempt against Haitian President François Duvalier in 1958. \n\nIn 1942, Haitian President Élie Lescot implemented an aviation corps program. and chose 3 men out of 42 corps members to receive pilot training in Tuskegee, Alabama. Alix Pasquet, a law graduate of École Millitaire d'Haiti and an officer in the Haitian army at the time, was one of these three chosen officers.\n\nThe U.S. government needed the Haitians to organize a patrol of the Caribbean Sea during World War II and gave the Haitian government six airplanes. These airplanes could carry bombs and could be used to attack German submarines within that area. In February 1943, Pasquet, along with Raymond Cassagnol and Philippe Célestin, traveled from Port-au-Prince to Alabama to begin training at the famed Tuskegee Flight School. The Tuskegee Airmen were renowned for their unmatched record of more than 200 combat missions with few losses. Pasquet's training went through three stages—primary, basic, and advanced—and was extremely rigorous. He was trained by Jimmy Plinton, Jr., who was reputed as one of the best trainers in the Tuskegee Air Force program, over the course of a 7-month program.\n\n\"The Afro-American Newspaper\", one of the most widely circulated black newspapers at that time, ran a feature story on Pasquet, Cassagnol, and Célestin in April 1943, and the trio was noted for their aptitude with the English language. Additionally since Pasquet and his compatriots were from Haiti, they were unfamiliar with the pervasive racial segregation and racism in the American South at that time and were forced ride on Blacks-Only transportation or sit in the back of trains. As a result, they rarely ventured off-campus. Pasquet had a bad case of the flu and lost a month of his training, but ultimately graduated in August 1943 as a member of class 43G.\n\nAfter his distinguished service in World War II, Pasquet returned to Haiti. However, he was exiled in 1957 for supporting Louis Déjoie in the May 1957 Haitian Civil War. From exile in Miami, Pasquet led a political movement to restore stability in his native country and overthrow current ruler François Duvalier. In 1958, he returned to Haiti with Henri Perpignan and Phillipe Dominique as well as five Americans—Arthur Payne, Dany Jones, Levant Kersten, Robert F. Hickey and Joe D. Walker—with the intention of overpowering the capital's army barracks and capturing the ammunition depot within. He gained entry through the barracks' gate by convincing the sentry that he was an officer delivering prisoners, and then quickly seized control of the barracks. However the plot was foiled when an accomplice, Henri Perpignan, sent a prisoner to acquire Haitian-blend cigarettes, who then revealed crucial details to the incumbent government about Pasquet's position.\n\nPasquet was killed during the attempted coup and buried in Port-au-Prince.\n\nPasquet married Denise Etheart and had three sons: Gilbert Pasquet, Alix Pasquet Jr., and Bernard Pasquet.In 1973 his son, Alix, married Michèle Bennett, who later married Francois Duvalier's son, Jean-Claude 'Baby Doc' Duvalier.\n"}
{"id": "48994314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48994314", "title": "Arakan Liberation Party", "text": "Arakan Liberation Party\n\nThe Arakan Liberation Party (; ALP) is a Rakhine political party in Myanmar (Burma). The party has an armed wing, the Arakan Liberation Army (ALA), which has 60–100 personnel. The ALA signed a ceasefire agreement with the government of Myanmar on 5 April 2012 and became a signatory of the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) on 15 October 2015.\n\nThe Arakan Liberation Party was founded on 9 April 1967, along with its armed wing, the Arakan Liberation Army, with the help of the Karen National Union (KNU). On 26 November 1968, Khai Ray Khai, a member of the party's central committee, along with nine other associates, were arrested at Sittwe, the capital of Rakhine State, by Burmese authorities. On 20 December 1968 Khaing Soe Naing, the party's General Secretary, was arrested by Burmese authorities at Rathedaung Township, in Rakhine State. Following those arrests, several more ALP members were also arrested on different charges, and the party dissolved. The party has accused the government of torturing its imprisoned members.\n\nBetween 1971 and 1972, former political prisoners from the ALP were released on amnesty. As soon as Khaing Moe Lunn, a former ALP member, was released, he departed to Komura to meet with KNU leaders in order to re-establish the ALP and ALA. From 1973 to 1974, the ALP was re-established with help from the KNU, and 300 fighters were recruited and trained by the ALA, with Khaing as the President of the ALP and Commander in Chief of the ALA.\n\nBetween April and May 1977, 120 insurgents led by Khiang Moe Lunn engaged with Indian government forces and Burmese forces at the Indian-Myanmar border. 10 ALA insurgents were killed, including Khaing Moe Lunn, over 70 were arrested by Indian and Burmese authorities, and 40 were disarmed and arrested by the Burmese Army. An additional 20 went missing during retreats from government forces. 30 of the arrested were executed, and 55 others were charged with treason under Article 122 of the then constitution. 11 of those charged with treason were sentenced to death, and the rest to life imprisonment. The party ceased once again after the ALA's defeat.\n\nIn 1980, all ALP and ALA prisoners were released on amnesty. In 1981, the ALP and ALA were once again established, now under the leadership of Khai Ray Khai, and was once again assisted by the KNU. The ALP is presently allied with the KNU, along with the National Democratic Front (NDF), the Democratic Alliance of Burma (DAB), and the National Council of the Union of Burma (NCUB).\n\nThe ALP signed the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) on 15 October 2015, along with seven other insurgent groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "8560657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8560657", "title": "Association of Christian Democratic Students", "text": "Association of Christian Democratic Students\n\nThe Association of Christian Democratic Students (, RCDS) is a German student organisation founded in 1951 and based in Berlin. It contains more than 100 groups at universities with 8,000 members in total. The RCDS is the largest and oldest existing political student association in Germany. It sees himself as a liberal and conservative student association. The national chairman of the RCDS is editor of the magazine \"Civis mit Sonde\".\n\nThe organisation stands politically near the Christian Democratic Union and Christian Social Union, two conservative German political parties. It is one of five founding members of the European Democrat Students, which arose from cooperation between RCDS and Swedish students that started in 1958 at RCDS's annual meeting in West Berlin.\n\nThe RCDS is institutionally independent CDU / CSU, but has the status of a \"friendly organization\". Most RCDS chairmen are co-opted members on the boards of the CDU and CSU at each organizational level.\n\nThe RCDS contains 14 regional associations (see, e.g., the Association of Christian Democratic Students in Bavaria) and groups at universities. The groups at the universities are organized autonomously.\n\nThe alumni of the RCDS are organized in the Association of Christian Democratic Academics (RCDA). The RCDA Federal Association was founded in 1991 on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the RCDS.\n\nThe RCDS was founded on the first assembly on 25 to 27 August 1951 in Bonn; however, some regional groups had been founded before.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11295077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11295077", "title": "Building control body", "text": "Building control body\n\nA building control body is an organisation authorised to control building work that is subject to the Building Regulations in England and Wales (similar systems are provided in Northern Ireland, and in Scotland where the term 'building standards' is used). Building control roles are exercised by officers in local authorities and by private sector Approved Inspectors.\n\nThe title \"Building control officer\" (BCO) (also known as a \"building inspector\" or a \"building control surveyor\") is used predominantly by local authorities, which confer the title of \"officer\" to many staff who have regulatory, supervision or enforcement roles. Private sector \"Approved Inspectors\" generally do not refer to themselves as \"officers\".\n\nBuilding control professionals practice in the public sector with local authorities or in the private sector as companies or individuals who are recognised as Approved Inspectors. Many individuals are members of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and chartered building surveyors or chartered building control surveyors, and are members of that RICS Faculty; alternatively, they may be chartered members of the Chartered Institute of Building or the Chartered Association of Building Engineers. \n\nApproved Inspectors are bodies or individuals who must be appointed by an organisation designated by the Secretary of State for Housing, Communities and Local Government or the equivalent Welsh Government Minister as having the authority to control building work. CICAIR Limited, a specially created wholly owned subsidiary of the Construction Industry Council, is the sole body authorised to approve Approved Inspectors to undertake building control work in England and Wales.\n\nThe main function of building control is to ensure that the requirements of the building regulations are met in all types of non-exempt development. Generally they examine plans, specifications and other documents submitted for approval, and survey work as it proceeds. Most building control surveyors are now actively involved at design stage for many schemes and are acknowledged to provide valuable input at all stages of development.\n\nMany building control surveyors who work for local authorities are involved with other legislation such as safety at sports grounds, dealing with dangerous structures and demolitions, and various development and building matters.\n\nLocal authorities have powers under the Building Act 1984 to enforce the building regulations and have work altered or removed that does not comply. These powers have not been conferred on approved inspectors.\n\nLocal Authority Building Control (LABC) is a membership association for around 3,000 members of local authority building control teams in England and Wales. LABSS (Local Authority Building Standards Scotland) is a not-for-profit membership organisation representing all local authority building standards verifiers in Scotland.\n\nFormed in 1996, the Association of Consultant Approved Inspectors (ACAI) promotes private sector building control as a commercial, professional and cost-effective alternative to local authority inspectors.\n\nThe ACAI and LABC joined with the CABE, CIOB and RICS to form the Building Control Alliance, incorporated in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30725828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30725828", "title": "Catherine Mayer", "text": "Catherine Mayer\n\nCatherine Mayer is an American-born British author and journalist, and the co-founder of the Women's Equality Party (WE) in the UK.\n\nMayer was born in the US and later became naturalised as British. Mayer moved to Britain as a child when her father, theatre historian David Mayer, came to research a book and later secured tenure at Manchester University teaching Ben Elton and the late Rik Mayall. Her mother, Anne, is prominent within theatre PR.\n\nMayer attended Manchester High School for Girls, and studied English Literature at the University of Sussex (1978–82). One of her sisters is \"The Young Ones\" co-writer (with Mayall) Lise Mayer, another is the theatre agent Cassie Mayer.\n\nMayer was president of the Foreign Press Association in London from June 2003 until June 2005.\n\nShe worked at \"Time\" from 2004 to April 2015, serving as \"Time\"'s Editor at Large, Europe Editor, London Bureau Chief and Senior Editor. Mayer began legal action against \"Time\" in July 2017 on the grounds of age and gender discrimination.\n\nIn 2011 Mayer wrote \"Amortality: The Pleasures and Perils of Living Agelessly\" about the pros and cons of people living longer.\n\nHer 2015 biography of Prince Charles, published as, \"Charles: The Heart of a King\" and \"Born to Be King\", generated worldwide headlines with its claims of dysfunction in the royal courts. Clarence House, which had facilitated access to the Prince, distanced itself from the book. Mayer stood by the content. The book was a \"Sunday Times\" Top Ten bestseller.\n\nMayer's non-fiction, \"Attack of the 50ft. Women\", was published in 2017. The book covers the benefits of gender equality and how it is being promoted in various countries, and has been described as \"a compelling feminist call to arms\".\n\nMayer has worked as a foreign correspondent at the German news weekly \"Focus\" and started her career at \"The Economist\".\nMayer co-founded the Women's Equality Party with Sandi Toksvig in March 2015. The party's policy commitments were launched by the party's leader, Sophie Walker, at Conway Hall on 20 October 2015. In February 2018 Mayer stated: \"The party also welcomed all genders. Everyone is born with a sex, usually, though not always, male or female. Gender is the product of social and cultural factors that can be changed. The very first policy document made clear that WE supported “the right of all to define their sex or gender or to reject gendered divisions as they choose.\"\n\nMayer is married to Andy Gill of Gang of Four.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27296602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27296602", "title": "Chief Agricultural Negotiator", "text": "Chief Agricultural Negotiator\n\nThe Chief Agricultural Negotiator is an ambassador of the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) responsible for conducting and overseeing international negotiations related to trade in agricultural products. The Chief Agricultural Negotiator is compensated at the rate payable for Level III of the Executive Schedule.\n\nThe position has its origins in the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act of 1934, which stipulated that the Secretary of Agriculture must be consulted when the Department of State conducted negotiations on agricultural trade. At that time the head of Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Leslie A. Wheeler, began to lead agricultural negotiations. His successors as heads of the Office of Foreign Agricultural Relations and the Foreign Agricultural Service continued this work until creation of the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative in 1962.\n\nInitially, USTR's agricultural negotiations were closely coordinated with the Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service, and in fact during the Kennedy Round of GATT negotiations FAS Administrator Raymond A. Ioanes served as the principal agricultural negotiator. By the late 1970s, however, such matters were handled by an Assistant United States Trade Representative for Agricultural Affairs and Commodity Policy who after 1978 was a career member of the Senior Executive Service. Over time this position evolved into a politically appointed Special Trade Negotiator for Agricultural and Food Policy who did not enjoy ambassadorial rank.\n\nDuring negotiation of the Uruguay Round of GATT talks that led ultimately to creation of the World Trade Organization, Charles J. O'Mara, a Senior Foreign Service officer of the Foreign Agricultural Service, was appointed Counsel for International Affairs to the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture and Special Trade Negotiator for Agriculture. According to Congressional testimony,\nIn January 1990, U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills and former Secretary of Agriculture Clayton Yeutter appointed Mr. O'Mara as their negotiator for agriculture in the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations. In August 1991, he was named Special Trade Negotiator in the Department's International Affairs and Commodity Programs Office, where he has maintained his responsibilities for the Uruguay Round and spearheaded negotiations on agriculture in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).\n\nThough not employed by USTR, O'Mara thus effectively functioned as USTR's lead agricultural negotiator from 1990 until conclusion of the Uruguay Round.\n\nIn 1997, Peter L. Scher was nominated and confirmed to the rank of ambassador while serving as Special Trade Negotiator for Agriculture, the first time the position was elevated to that status. The Chief Agricultural Negotiator ambassadorship was formally created by the Trade and Development Act of 2000 while Scher was in the position, making him the first to bear the title. However, according to Senate records, the first formal nominee to the new ambassadorship was Scher's successor, Gregory M. Frazier, who was nominated to it October 19, 2000. Frazier was not confirmed by the Senate and was elevated to the ambassadorship from his position as Special Negotiator for Agriculture and Food Policy in a recess appointment on December 21, 2000. He was succeeded in turn by Allen F. Johnson and Dr. Richard T. Crowder. In March 2008, President George W. Bush nominated A. Ellen Terpstra to the post, but she was not confirmed.\n\nDr. Islam A. Siddiqui was given a recess appointment in March 2010, and confirmed by the Senate on October 20, 2011. Dr. Siddiqui submitted his resignation December 12, 2013.\n\nOn December 17, 2013, President Barack Obama nominated Darci Vetter to succeed Dr. Siddiqui. She was confirmed to that position by voice vote on July 9, 2014.\n"}
{"id": "53935211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53935211", "title": "Conscientious objection in the United States", "text": "Conscientious objection in the United States\n\nConscientious objection in the United States is based on the Military Selective Service Act, which delegates its implementation to the Selective Service System. Conscientious objection is also recognized by the Department of Defense.\n\nThe Department of Defense defines conscientious objection as a \"firm, fixed, and sincere objection to participation in war in any form or the bearing of arms, by reason of religious training and/or belief.\" It defines \"religious training and/or belief\" as: \n\nConscientious objection must be \"sincere and meaningful\" and occupy \"a place in the life of its possessor parallel to that filled by an orthodox belief in God.\" Any mixture of sincere religious, moral, or ethical beliefs can qualify as conscientious objection. The term \"religious training and belief\" does not include essentially political, sociological, or philosophical views, or a merely personal moral code. A conscientious objector may have political, sociological, and philosophical views, but such views are not a replacement for religious and/or moral beliefs.\n\nA conscientious objector may still be willing to use force to defend themselves or others, and may even support a state's right to go to war, as long as the individual objects to personal participation in such armed conflict between states or groups.\n\nDuring the American Revolutionary War, exemptions varied by state. Pennsylvania required conscientious objectors who would not join companies of voluntary soldiers, called Associations, to pay a fine roughly equal to the time they would have spent in military drill. Quakers who refused this extra tax had their property confiscated.\n\nConscription in the United States began in the Civil War. Although conscientious objection was not part of the draft law, individuals could provide a substitute or pay $300 ($4,674.34 in 2017) to hire one. By 1864 the draft act allowed the $300 to be paid for the benefit of sick and wounded soldiers. Conscientious objectors in Confederate States initially had few options. Responses included moving to northern states, hiding in the mountains, joining the army but refusing to use a weapon, or being imprisoned. Between late 1862 and 1864 a payment of $500 ($7,790.56 in 2017) into the public treasury exempted conscientious objectors from Confederate military duty.\n\nIn the United States during World War I, conscientious objectors were permitted to serve in noncombatant military roles. About 2000 absolute conscientious objectors refused to cooperate in any way with the military. These men were imprisoned in military facilities such as Fort Lewis (Washington), Alcatraz Island (California) and Fort Leavenworth (Kansas). Some were subjected to treatment such as short rations, solitary confinement and physical abuse severe enough as to cause the deaths of two Hutterite draftees.\n\nEventually, because of the shortage of farm labor, the conscientious objectors were granted furloughs either for farm service or relief work in France under the American Friends Service Committee. A limited number performed alternative service as fire fighters in the Cascade Range in the vicinity of Camp Lewis, Washington and in a Virginia psychiatric hospital.\n\nDuring World War II, all registrants were sent a questionnaire covering basic facts about their identification, physical condition, history and also provided a checkoff to indicate opposition to military service because of religious training or belief. Men marking the latter option received a detailed form in which they had to explain the basis for their objection.\nCivilian Public Service (CPS) provided conscientious objectors in the United States an alternative to military service during World War II. From 1941 to 1947 nearly 12,000 draftees, unwilling to do any type of military service, performed \"work of national importance\" in 152 CPS camps throughout the United States and Puerto Rico.\n\nAlternatives to war bonds and war savings stamps were provided for those who would not fund the war for conscientious reasons. The National Service Board for Religious Objectors offered \"civilian bonds\" and the Mennonite Central Committee offered \"Civilian Public Service stamps\" and \"War Sufferers' Relief stamps\".\n\nCivilian Public Service was disbanded in 1947. By the early 1950s a replacement program, 1-W service, was in place for conscientious objectors classified as 1-W by Selective Service. The new program eliminated the base camps of CPS and provided wages for the men.\n\n1-W service was divided into several categories. The \"Earning Service\" involved working in institutions such as hospitals for fairly good wages. \"Voluntary Service\" was nonpaying work done in similar institutions, mostly within North America. \"Pax Service\" was a nonpaying alternative with assignments overseas. \"1-W Mission Supporting Service\" was like the Earning Service but the wages were used for the support of mission, relief or service projects of the draftees choice. The nonpaying services were promoted by church agencies as a sacrifice to enhance the peace witness of conscientious objectors.\n\nDesmond T. Doss, a Virginia native and Seventh-day Adventist, desired to perform military service after the start of World War II. While enlisting with the intention of becoming a combat medic, Doss tried to claim noncombatant status but was told that the military did not recognize the designation. He was informed that he should register as a conscientious objector. Doss personally preferred to be called a \"conscientious cooperator\" because he would willingly serve his country, wear a uniform, salute the flag, and help with the war effort. Nevertheless, Doss accepted the designation \"conscientious objector\" in order to join the army and avoid a Section 8 discharge on account of his religious convictions.\n\nOn October 12, 1945, Desmond Doss received the Medal of Honor from President Harry S. Truman. This medal is the highest award for valor in action against an enemy force. By helping to support and maintain the war, Desmond was the first non-combatant to receive the Medal of Honor. A dramatized account of Doss's life and war experience, as well as testimony from his peers, is portrayed in Mel Gibson's 2016 film \"Hacksaw Ridge\", starring Andrew Garfield as Doss.\n\nOther conscientious objectors who have been awarded the Medal of Honor are Thomas W. Bennett and Joseph G. LaPointe, both medics who served during the Vietnam War. Both Bennett and LaPointe were killed in combat within four months of each other in 1969 and were awarded their medals posthumously.\n\n\"The individual's objections must be to all wars rather than a specific war.\" Objection to participation in a specific war is called selective conscientious objection, which the United States does not recognize. A conscientious objector may still be willing to participate \"in a theocratic or spiritual war between the powers of good and evil.\"\n\nDuring a draft, the Selective Service System assigns classifications to draftees. A person classified as 1-A is considered available for military service. Conscientious objectors available for noncombatant military service are classified as 1-A-O, while those who oppose all military service are classified as 1-O and available for civilian work.\n\nDuring a draft, as part of the Alternative Service Program, the Selective Service System will consider 1-O (civilian) conscientious objectors to be Alternative Service Workers (ASWs), required to work for members of the Alternative Service Employer Network (ASEN).\n\nThe Department of Defense also implements the classification of conscientious objectors into its own system. The Navy, the Marine Corps, the Army, the Air Force, and the Coast Guard each provide their own policies on conscientious objection.\n\nWhen the draft is not in effect, only those who have enlisted themselves can apply for or receive formal conscientious objector status. Such a person is only eligible for classification as a conscientious objector only if their beliefs are determined to have \"crystallized\" after receipt of an induction notice. The Selective Service System does not accept requests for classification as a conscientious objector when the draft is not in effect. If the draft is reinstated, a draftee will have a short period of time after enlistment to request classification as a conscientious objector.\n\nA person who is already enlisted can file for classification as a 1-A-O conscientious objector to be assigned to two years of noncombatant service or civilian work \"contributing to the maintenance of the national health, safety, or interest.\"\n\nNoncombatant service is any military service that is unarmed at all times and does not require weapons training. Service aboard an armed ship or aircraft or in a combat zone is considered to be noncombatant unless the service requires personal and direct involvement in the operation of weapons.\n\nFor serving personnel of the United States military, conscientious objection applications are \"subject to an investigative process by a senior officer not in the applicant's chain of command,\" as well as \"an interview of the applicant by a military chaplain as well as a psychiatrist or medical officer.\" The officer conducts an informal hearing at which the sincerity of the applicant's convictions is examined. By whom the decision is made varies by military branch.\n\nConscientious objector applications for enlisted soldiers are reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the individual's respective branch of the military. Between 2001 and 2007, Army acceptance rates for conscientious objector applications varied. Of the few applications the Army received (between 18 and 39 per year) between 49% and 78% were accepted per year.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57132848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57132848", "title": "Control Arms Foundation of India", "text": "Control Arms Foundation of India\n\nControl Arms Foundation of India is a New Delhi-based gun control organisation co-founded in 2004 by activist Binalakshmi Nepram to curb armed violence caused by the proliferation of small arms and improvised explosive devices.\n\nThe organisation was formerly known as India Working Group on Arms Control (IWGAC).\n"}
{"id": "29434819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29434819", "title": "Corruption in Pakistan", "text": "Corruption in Pakistan\n\nCorruption in Pakistan is widespread, particularly in the government and lower levels of police forces. Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 117th place out of 180 countries Pakistan saw a significant improvement in its statistics in 2013 when its ranking improved by 12 indices compared to its previous rankings – 139 out of 174 in 2012, 134 out of 182 in 2011, 143 out of 178 in 2010, and 139 out of 180 in 2009.\n\nPakistan has had a problem of corruption since it came into being. The change in regimes between military and civilian institutions due to three different successful coups have also weakened the anti-corruption institutions. This may also be noted that a significant improvement in corruption in Pakistan has not occurred either in civilian government or in military government. In 2017, Pakistan's prime minister Nawaz Sharif was declared ineligible to hold office for life by Supreme Court of Pakistan after charges of corruption were filed against him. The decision became controversial when no clear evidence of corruption was found. Cases pertaining to his corruption are still ongoing in the superior court. \n\nThere is a growing need to reform accountability and anti-corruption policies at higher levels within the state government.\n\nThe Dominion of Pakistan was created as a result of the Pakistan Movement in 1947. Upon gaining independence, Pakistan inherited a strong bureaucracy and army from the British Raj. There has since been no major change in this bureaucratic set up since it was first implemented by British, albeit reforms were proposed by the Musharraf regime in 2007. This has led many to speculate that \"corruption has seeped into the higher echelons of bureaucracy\" where \"corruption cases are [mostly] reported against irregular and ex-cadre appointments\". It was by the late 1960s that the bureaucracy started being portrayed as an \"instrument of oppression\". In multiple reports published by the World Bank, the Pakistani bureaucracy was seen as being rife with corruption, inefficient and bloated in size with an absence of accountability and resistant to change.\n\nThe bureaucratic influence was strong in the western provinces of Pakistan while the eastern province retained a majority of the population. On 22 November 1954, bureaucratic administrators moved a resolution to merge the four western provinces into a single unit called West Pakistan. This led to public outcry in East Pakistan who felt that they were being misrepresented and systematically marginalised by the land-owning Punjabi Muslim elites who enjoyed higher bureaucratic positions at the time. This led to the secession of East Pakistan into the separate nation state of Bangladesh and lay witness to the corrupt malpractices of the Punjabi elite in West Pakistan. Punjabis argued that East Pakistan's majority was a consequence of the high percentage of Bengali Hindus in the province who were not involved in the state's decision-making processes. Thus, the Punjabi landowners remained largely unrepentant of their desires to \"[secure] their own hegemony\" leading to the loss of the eastern province in 1971.\n\nAfter Zulfikar Ali Bhutto came into power in 1973, he introduced a planned economic system to revitalise the stagnant economy. This led to the introduction of the nationalisation programme bringing entire private industrial corporations under the government ownership. In 1974, Bhutto cancelled the fourth five-year plans bypassing the recommendations of the Planning Commission, focusing entirely on broadening government control over private business enterprises. In doing so, Bhutto's government began the politicisation of economic planning.\n\nPolitical interference opened doors for corrupt political practices to seep into the nation's economic planning processes. The nationalisation programme badly affected the reputation of the Pakistan Peoples Party. Accumulated losses of up to Rs 254 million were reported with several instances of over-staffing and inefficient productivity in heavy mechanical industries. By 1976, the state had been hijacked by group and individuals trying to accumulate wealth by redistributing resources from public enterprises to private individuals. Public enterprises \"became a device to extend political patronage to those that the regime favoured, to pay political debts, or to accumulate power\".\n\nBhutto's nationalisation programme lost its appeal towards the end of his government's term and the demand for denationalisation gained more currency. The successive government of military chief and president Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq released a whitepaper that led to the creation of a commission under Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC) to reverse earlier nationalisation efforts. Not much was achieved in this regard and only three industries, including future prime minister Nawaz Sharif's conglomerate Ittefaq Group of Industries, were ever denationalised and returned to their owners. Many argue that Sharif was favoured in this process because he was a political protégé of the military dictator at the helm.\n\nIn 2012, Transparency International (TI) calculated that Pakistan had lost more than Rs 8.5 trillion (US$ 94 billion) in corruption, tax evasion and bad governance in the PPP-led coalition government from 2008 to 2013. However, from 2013 to 2017 while Nawaz Sharif was in power Transparency International indicated a significant drop in corruption as Pakistan improved from a score of 28 to 32 in the TI index, even though serious allegations of corruption were leveled against him during that time. Adil Gillani, an advisor for TI Pakistan observed that if Pakistan checks the menace of corruption and ensures good governance, it would not require a single penny from the outside world. The 2008–2013 PPP-led coalition government is criticised as being the most corrupt in the country's history. The free and powerful local media in Pakistan exposed various cases of corruption during the government's tenure including cases of bribery and corruption in government-owned enterprises like Pakistan International Airlines and Pakistan Railways.\n\nOn 29 March 2012, a civilian resident of Johar Town Lahore, Tariq Ahmed, filed a court petition in the Lahore High Court, seeking to hear the case of disqualification of prime minister Yousaf Raza Gillani. The plea was filed in the High Court in which the petitioner took the stance that \"Fauzia Gillani— spouse of prime minister Gillani received loans of millions of rupees from the Agriculture Development Bank Ltd (ADB) and the National Bank of Pakistan for the two mega-corporations owned by the Gillani family of which Fauzia Gillani served both megacorporations as executive director. None of the loans of millions of rupees were paid back to the banks. When the disqualification petition was put to rest by the ruling of the Speaker of the National Assembly Dr Fehmida Mirza citing that the petition did not hold ground, Gillani was convicted on the charges of Contempt of Court. Gillani became Pakistan's first prime minister to be convicted while holding office and was later sentenced and disqualified. Gillani is prudently criticised for a prolonged era of stagflation, in which fundamental economic problems were ignored, government was mismanaged and corruption was endemic.\n\nThe \"Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947\" implemented in the Dominion of Pakistan was enacted to make effective provisions for the prevention of bribery and corruption of public servants, particularly in the bureaucratic administration. The autonomous Princely State of Bahawalpur adopted its own version of the act, namely the \"Bahawalpur Prevention of Corruption Act, 1950\".\n\nIn 1955, an accord was signed between Nawab Sadeq Mohammad Khan V and Lt Gen Ghulam Muhammad Malik which made the state of Bahawalpur a part of the province of West Pakistan. This geopolitical change meant that the original act needed amendments to include Bahawalpur and other regions which were originally left out of the act. Subsequently, in October 1958, an ordinance was passed to extend the act to the whole of the province of West Pakistan – this is known as the \"Prevention of Corruption Act (West Pakistan Extension) Ordinance, 1958\". This ordinance extended the scope of the original to the districts of Karat, Kharan, Makran and Lasbela and also repealed the \"Bahawalpur Prevention of Corruption Act, 1950\".\n\nOn 16 November 1999, \"Ordinance XIX\" was passed which later came to be known as the \"National Accountability Bureau Ordinance\". It called for the establishment of the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) as an autonomous federal institution building efforts to combat cases of corruption, financial crimes and economic terrorism in Pakistan. According to the ordinance, NAB was granted authority to launch investigations,conduct inquiries, and issue arrest warrants against individuals suspected in financial mismanagement, terrorism, corruption in private, state, defence and corporate sectors), and direct such cases to accountability courts. Individuals convicted under the \"National Accountability Bureau Ordinance\" are prohibited from holding political office for ten years.\n\nThe provincial governments of Pakistan are responsible for legislations in their respective provinces and since 2013, there has been several legislative efforts against corruption, primarily in the provinces of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab. Following is a list of recent anti-corruption legislations:\n\nThe \"Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Right to Information Bill\" was passed in the provincial assembly on 31 October 2013. It was enacted throughout the province by the Governor of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa on 4 November 2013 as the \"Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Right to Information Act, 2013\". The legislation makes way for provisions that add transparency to the various functions and departments of the government. It gives the citizens of the province the right to access any information or record held by a public body, except for the information that is sensitive to the security of the state.\n\nBefore 2002, the electronic media was entirely dominated by state-owned institutions like Pakistan Television Corporation and Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation. This monopoly was thwarted, when the Musharraf regime regulated the electronic media allowing for private television channels to be operated independently. Since the liberalisation of the electronic media in 2002, it has served as a major force in exposing corruption-related cases and scams.\n\nFollowing are a few of the major corruption scams and scandals reported and exposed in the mainstream Pakistani media:\n\nIn the wake of 2013 elections, massive electoral rigging was alleged through first-hand accounts of several members of the public via social networking websites. Specialised websites were set up to publish and archive material exposing corrupt malpractices throughout the many polling stations serving several constituencies, e.g., dhandli.com. Several leaked videos of persons supposed to be caught in the act of rigging the polls went viral and caught the eye of the mainstream media becoming topics of discussion in days to follow. However, a judicial probe found these allegations to be unsubstantiated. Even before the elections, social media served as an effective tool to hold the nation's to-be-leaders \"accountable\" for various issues like corruption and education.\n\nCitizen journalism is emerging as a growing phenomenon and social media is being touted in Pakistan as an important tool that can be used to strengthen democracy. Adding to the mix, several prominent politicians have moved to the likes of Twitter to gather support and get prospective voters on board and analysts think that this can lead to a better and direct accountability of political leaders. Social media has also proved effective in identifying corruption in mainstream media, particularly in the case of the mediagate scandal.\n\nA lot of positives can be derived from social media and its effects on Pakistan. But it is not without its problems. Lack of legislation and implementation of defamation laws has allowed propaganda against certain people particularly politicians to go unchecked. How to prevent such elements in social media without infringing on freedom of expression should be a topic of debate for legislators in the future.\n\nIn 2002, in a report titled \"Nature and Extent of Corruption in the Public Sector\", Transparency International (TI) Pakistan reported that the highest amounts of bribery were spent on people affiliated with the judiciary. Later in 2010, TI Pakistan presented a breakdown of the various actors in the judicial system involved in corruption. A majority of the participants reported that they, or someone in their household, has been subjected to an act of corruption while interacting with someone from the judiciary. When asked of the actors involved, 33.62% people said court employees, 23.73% said public prosecutors, 14.12% said witnesses, 12.43% said judges, 8.19% said opponent lawyer, 4.52% said magistrates while 3.39% mentioned others.\n\nIn a 2011 survey, TI Pakistan identified judiciary as the most corrupt institution in Pakistan alongside police. Nevertheless, with the proceedings of some high-impact corruption cases against government officials, including the prime minister, the Supreme Court demonstrated its positive role in tackling corruption. Where the apex court was being hailed for its anti-corruption efforts in 2013, Mehmoodul Hassan, a member of the Sindh Bar Council, alleged that nepotism and corruption were still \"rampant\" in the lower judiciary, particularly high courts and the lower courts, where people were unlawfully promoted within the judiciary.\n\nIn the 2010, TI Pakistan reported that about 23.7% of those surveyed received admission in educational institutions through non-normal and alternate procedures. One of the biggest problems identified in the country is the presence of a non-uniform educational system. The private sector actively encourages western educational models such as the General Certificate of Secondary Education using this to justify unaffordable fees they charge ordinary citizens. Finding gain in such enterprises, the elite class amongst politicians, technocrats, bureaucrats and businessmen usually capitalise in this venture. These attitudes can also explain the deteriorating standards in the public sector educational institutes. On the other hand, state-owned public schools face several challenges including poor management and governance, and incompetence of consecutive governments in the education sector. Further factors for failing standards in state-run institutions include lack of funding, non-utilisation by elite classes, appointments of under-qualified faculty.\n\nFor a brief time during the regime of Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan received unprecedented investments in its higher-education sector – this funding faltered with the arrival of Zardari's government after 2008. In 2011, Dr Syed Abdul Aziz, director of Hamdard Institute of Education and Social Sciences declared education as one of the most corrupt sectors in Pakistan. According to 2013 findings by Transparency International, factor that contribute to this corrupt culture in the sector include embezzlement of development funds allocated by the government, thousands of \"ghost schools\" that appear only on paper, bribes taken to sell confidential material to candidates, poor or under-utilisation of funds and an inertia to change on the behalf of the education ministry.\n\nIn 2010, 42% of surveyed individuals reported gaining access to hospital services by a method other than standard admission, and 48% reported either having to pay additional costs for essential services or being forced to utilize the services of a designated affiliate. Of the respondents who were asked to identify which parties orchestrated the corrupt acts, 61% reported hospital staff, 25% reported doctors, and 13% reported nurses.\n\nCorruption is found to be commonplace in the lower levels of police. Police was observed as the most corrupt sector in a 2013 survey by Transparency International (TI). This situation has persisted since the graft watchdog's July 2010 survey, in which it was noted that the major cause for corruption in this sector was due to a lack of accountability and merit, and low salaries. Payment of bribes in order to escape and avoid charges was also commonplace; 31% of 4,224 respondents reported paying bribes to the police. Citizen journalists upload instances of police officials taking bribes on social networking and video sharing websites like YouTube.\n\nOrdinary citizens face challenges in reporting instances of corruption they encounter with the police. In 2005, Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz ordered an investigation into claims by a 23-year-old woman who alleged that, in retaliation for attempting to reveal police corruption, police falsely detained her for fifteen days and raped her.\n\nAs of 2002, 96% of surveyed individuals reported corruption issues with electrical utility officials during the past year. The most common types of corruption were billing related. Some consumers admitted to illegally reducing their utility bills, while others reported being harassed with inflated bills intended to solicit bribes. Out of the pool of corruption-affirmative respondents, 71% reported that money was \"demanded directly by the actor\".\n\nIn August 2010, reporters from \"News of the World\" orchestrated a sting operation which was able to identify three Pakistani cricket players – Salman Butt, Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Amir – and a bookmaker Mazhar Majeed of being complicit in a row over spot-fixing in the fourth England-Pakistan test match at Lord's. The cricketers each received 30 months, one year and six months jail term respectively while the bookmaker received two years and eight months jail term in a verdict issued by the Southwark Crown Court on November 3, 2011. Following these events, on 15 November 2011, the chairman of the Pakistan Cricket Board, Zaka Ashraf established an anti-corruption unit to prevent players from becoming involved in illegal betting practices.\n\nAccording to the 2002 study, 99% of 256 respondents reported facing corruption of taxation. Furthermore, 32% of respondents reported paying bribes to have their tax assessment lowered, and nearly 14% reported receiving fictitious tax assessments until a bribe was paid.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7879905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7879905", "title": "Cultural safety", "text": "Cultural safety\n\nIn New Zealand, cultural safety is the effective nursing practice of a person or family from another culture that is determined by that person or family. Its origins are in nursing education and a culture can range anywhere from age or generation, gender, sexual orientation, occupation, religious beliefs, or even disabilities. An unsafe cultural practice is an action that demeans the cultural identity of a particular person or family. Cultural safety also has four different principles. The first one aims to improve health status and well-being of New Zealanders because the concept originated in New Zealand; on the other hand, the second one improves the delivery of health services. The third one focuses on the differences among the people who are being treated and accepting those differences. The fourth principle focuses on understanding the power of health services and how health care impacts individuals and families.\n\nCultural Safety has its origins in the field of nursing education. The concept originated at a nursing leadership hui in 1989 after concerns were raised by Māori nursing students about the safety of Māori students in monocultural nursing schools and of Māori intellectual property when taught by tauiwi.\n\nCultural safety is met through actions which recognise, respect, and nurture the unique cultural identity of a patient. Effective practice for a person from another culture is determined by that person or family. Culture includes, but is not restricted to, age or generation; gender; sexual orientation; occupation and socio-economic status; ethnic origin or migrant experience; religious or spiritual beliefs; and disability. Unsafe cultural practice comprises any action which diminishes, demeans or disempowers the cultural identity and wellbeing of an individual.\n\nCultural safety aims to improve the health status and wellbeing of New Zealanders and applies to all relationships through:\n1) an emphasis on health gains and positive health and wellbeing outcomes;\n2) acknowledging the beliefs and practices of those who differ from them. For example, this may be by: age or generation, gender, sexual orientation, occupation and socio-economic status, ethnic origin or migrant experience, religious or spiritual belief, disability \n\nCultural safety aims to enhance the delivery of health services through a culturally safe workforce by:\n1) identifying the power relationship between the service provider and the people who use the service. The health care provider accepts and works alongside others after undergoing a careful process of institutional and personal analysis of power relationships;\n2) empowering the users of the service. People should be able to express degrees of perceived risk or safety. For example, someone who feels unsafe may not be able to take full advantage of a service offered and may subsequently require more intrusive and serious intervention;\n3) preparing health care providers to understand the diversity within their own cultural reality and the impact of that on any person who differs in any way from themselves;\n4) applying social science concepts that underpin the practice of health care. Health care practice is more than carrying out tasks. It is about relating and responding effectively to people with diverse needs and strengths in a way that the people who use the service can define as safe\n\nCultural safety is broad in its application:\n1) recognising inequalities within health care, education, employment and societal interactions that represent the microcosm of inequalities in health, education, employment and society that have prevailed within our nation;\n2) addressing the cause and effect relationship of history, political, social, and employment status, housing, education, gender and personal experience upon people who use psychological services;\n3) accepting the legitimacy of difference and diversity in human behaviour and social structure;\n4) accepting that the attitudes and beliefs, policies and practices of psychological service providers can act as barriers to service access;\n5) concerning quality improvement in service delivery and consumer rights.\n\nCultural safety has a close focus on:\n1) understanding the impact of the health care provided as a bearer of his/her own culture, history, attitudes and life experiences and the response other people make to these factors;\n2) challenging health care providers to examine their practice carefully, recognising the power relationship in health care institutions is biased toward the provider of the service;\n3) balancing the power relationships in the practices of health care so that every consumer receives an effective service;\n4) preparing health care providers to resolve any tension between the culture of the health care institution, the culture on which health care theory and practice has traditionally been based, and the people using the services;\n5) understanding that such power imbalances can be examined, negotiated and changed to provide equitable, effective, efficient and acceptable service delivery, which minimises risk to people who might otherwise be alienated from the service;\n6) an understanding of self, the rights of others and legitimacy of difference should provide the psychologists with the skills to work with all people who are different from them.\n\nStandards for the registration of nurses in all scopes of practice require the content of theory and practice related experience in nursing programmes to include cultural safety, the Treaty of Waitangi and Maori health. Irihapete Ramsden said the woeful state of Maori health was a driving force for cultural safety's introduction into New Zealand's nursing schools. Maori had higher rates of asthma, heart disease, diabetes, obesity, cot death, ear infection leading to deafness and traffic accident injury involving alcohol and leading to death. Also, they had lower rates of immunisation, earned less and lived five to seven years less than non-Maori.\n\nThe concept developed in New Zealand by nurses working with Māori that moves beyond the traditional concept of cultural sensitivity (being acceptable to difference) to analysing power imbalances, institutional discrimination, colonisation and relationships with colonisers. It develops the idea that to provide quality care for people from different ethnicities than the mainstream, health care providers must embraces the skill of self-reflection as a means to advancing a therapeutic encounter and provide care congruent with the knowledge that cultural values and norms of the patient are different from his/her own.\n\nAccording to Brascoupé (2009) \"the long-term value of the concept of cultural safety as a tool for cultural regeneration is hard to assess and depends on the integrity of the processes that underlie the concept of cultural safety\". Most cultural safety research has been completed in New Zealand and Australia's health-care field, but the statistical evidence of the benefits of cultural safety is lacking, and other evidence is largely qualitative and anecdotal. \n\nIrihapeti Ramsden, the architect of cultural safety, stated that cultural safety training is too skewed toward Maori studies in many nursing courses and ignores the cultures of other minorities.\n\nA number of controversies during the mid 1990s affected the concept of cultural safety in New Zealand. Critics claimed that nursing students were afraid to speak out about the excesses of cultural safety on their nursing degrees, presumably for concerns about failing their course after not meeting cultural safety requirements. Student nurse Anna Penn said she had been \"bounced out\" of her nursing course for being branded culturally unsafe by the polytechnic's kaumatua, the late Hohua Tutengaehe, after she questioned the denial of her right as a women to speak on a Marae. She also challenged a tutor's claim that pre-European Maori had printing presses which were thrown into the sea by white colonials. Penn subsequently attended a nursing course in Queensland, Australia, and is now a registered nurse in New Zealand. In addition, Ex Waikato Polytechnic nursing tutor Brian Stabb said he had been sacked for being \"culturally unsafe\". Mr Stabb wrote that \"I have\nexperienced it as a racial judgement which carries all the stigmas of the most rabid forms of racism. Further. it seems this label can be handed out willy nilly with little or no accounability. The rationale I have been offered is that, as tangata whenua, Maori have the\nunassailable right to make such judgements and are accountable only to other tangata whenua\".\n\nAdditionally, former students and a former tutor on the Wanganui Polytechnic social work course have alleged intimidation and threats by tutors and students if they attempted to question the course's promotion of \"radical\" Maori views. They have claimed, among other things, that separate classes were held for Maori and \"tauiwi\" (foreigners); that Maori students who failed last year were accepted into the second year; that Maori students were allowed to start the course one week before pakeha students because, in the words of a tutor, they had been disadvantaged all their lives and needed that extra week; that students were made to wear signs saying \"Pakaitore (Moutoa Gardens) is Maori land\" during the course's selection process and risked exclusion if they refused; and that a tutor who had no teaching qualifications spent most of the class time sitting outside smoking and reading the newspaper.\n\nCritics have claimed that cultural safety is based on airy-fairy quasi-psychological subjects which has resulted in an abandonment of rigorous and theoretical task-based nursing. Public opposition to cultural safety during the 1990s led to a Parliamentary Select Committee inquiry into its teaching, whilst a simultaneous review was carried out by the NZ Nursing Council. After the review the NZ Nursing Council revised the guidelines for cultural safety in Nursing and Midwifery Education to placate public concern that cultural safety privileged Maori.\n\nCultural safety has been criticized for lacking a clear and comprehensive practice framework that is easily translated by, and responsive to, both culturally diverse health care providers and equally diverse health care recipients.\n\nDominion Post [Wellington, New Zealand] 23 Aug 1997. 2nd ed. Cultural Safety.\n\nNew Zealand Nursing Council, 2011. Guidelines for cultural safety, the Treaty of Waitangi and maori health in nursing education and practice...\n\nTRC, 2009. Kawa Whakaruruhau: Cultural Safety. Retrieved from http://www.library.auckland.ac.nz/subject-guides/med/docs/cultural-safety.pdf\n\nWepa, D (ed) 2005 Cultural safety in Aotearoa New Zealand. Auckland. Pearson Education\n"}
{"id": "31038334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31038334", "title": "Doug Phillips", "text": "Doug Phillips\n\nDouglas Winston Phillips (born 1965) is a Christian author, speaker, attorney, and homeschooling advocate who was once president of the now-defunct Vision Forum Ministries until he resigned due to an inappropriate relationship. He advocates biblical patriarchy, creationism, homeschooling, the Quiverfull movement, and the family integrated church.\n\nPhillips was born into a Christian family with Jewish heritage. His father was Constitution Party founder Howard Phillips. Phillips and his wife Beall have eight children.\n\nPhillips is the founder of the defunct San Antonio Independent Christian Film Festival.\nPhillips produced a documentary \"The League of Grateful Sons\" in 2004 about the soldiers who fought in the Battle of Iwo Jima. In 2009, Phillips led \"a team of scientists and investigators, including John D. Morris, president of the Institute for Creation Research\" to the Galápagos Islands for the 200th anniversary of Charles Darwin's life, and produced a documentary entitled \"The Mysterious Islands\".\n\nPhillips resigned as president of Vision Forum on October 30, 2013 after acknowledging a \"lengthy ... relationship with a woman\" which was \"inappropriately affectionate and romantic.\" On November 11, 2013, Vision Forum Ministries' board of directors discontinued operations citing \"serious sins\" which prompted Phillips' resignation. According to The Christian Post, Vision Forum, Inc., Phillips' for-profit business, \"appeared to have a liquidation sale\" in December 2013.\nOn April 15, 2014, the Phillips family's ex-nanny filed a lawsuit against Phillips and Vision Forum, alleging that she had suffered years of sexual abuse at the hands of Doug Phillips. Phillips denied the abuse charges, according to Julie Ingersoll, \"calling them sensationalist and suggesting that they are motivated by a desire for financial gain.\"\n\nOn November 17, 2014, Phillips was excommunicated from Boerne Christian Assembly, the church that he founded. Phillips had left the church in July.\nHe has written or edited the following books (published by his own company Vision Forum):\n\n"}
{"id": "21975154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21975154", "title": "Electronic Privacy Information Center v. Department of Justice", "text": "Electronic Privacy Information Center v. Department of Justice\n\nEPIC v. Department of Justice is a 2014 case in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia between the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) where EPIC seeks court action to enforce their Freedom of Information Act request for documents that the Department of Justice has withheld pertaining to George W. Bush's authorization of NSA warrantless surveillance.\n\nIn December 16, 2005, the \"New York Times\" published an article revealing that President Bush authorized the National Security Agency to \"eavesdrop on Americans and others inside the US to search for evidence of terrorist activity without the court-approved warrants ordinarily required for domestic spying.\" Foreshadowing the secrecy at issue in this case, the White House asked the New York Times to not publish the article as it could \"[jeopardize] continuing investigations and alert would-be terrorists that they might be under scrutiny.\" The New York Times agreed to delay publication for a year in order to conduct additional reporting, which resulted in the omission of information that \"administration officials argued could be useful to terrorists\" from the final article.\n\nJust four hours after the publication of this article, EPIC submitted a FOIA request to the Department of Justice for the legal justification behind the \"Warrantless Wiretapping\" program of President Bush.\n\nOn October 3, 2013, by way of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), EPIC requested copies of the following documents:\n\nEPIC also requested a fee waiver as well as an expedited process because, they argued, it is urgent to inform the public \"about an actual or alleged federal government activity\" that concerns all Americans and is potentially illegal.\n\nFourteen days following the initial filing of the FOIA request, the Department of Justice approved EPIC's fee waiver and expedited processing requests.\n\nDespite receiving approval notices from all of the agencies, the DOJ did not follow-up or send any materials to EPIC. In January 2006, EPIC responded to the DOJ's inaction by filing a suit.\n\nEPIC's lawsuit made the following claims: \n\nEPIC asked for the court to require the Department of Justice to immediately process the request, disclose all of the requested records, and award the EPIC its cost and attorneys' fees, as well as any other relief the Court deems just and proper.\n\nSimultaneously, EPIC requested a preliminary injunction that would require the Department of Justice to immediately process the request and disclose all of the requested records.\n\nAt the same time, the DOJ requested a summary judgment to dismiss the case. The DOJ argued that it legally withheld the requested documents under the first and third FOIA exemptions. The first exemption of the FOIA concerns national defense and foreign policy, exempting material that is \"specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.\" The third exemption of FOIA concerns material that has been \"specifically exempted from disclosure by statute\"; these statutes are commonly referred to as FOIA Exemption 3 Statutes.\n\nAfter conducting an \"in camera review,\" where the judge reviews the documents privately without their incorporation into the legal record, the judge determined that the documents in question did in fact qualify for exemption under the first and third exemptions (national defense and statute-based exemption, respectively). \n\nIn his analysis, the judge cited a former case in which the Electronic Frontier Foundation sued the Department of Justice over its failure to respond to EFF’s FOIA request concerning the US government’s engagement in telephone surveillance. The EFF v. DOJ court cited Exemption Five as an acceptable justification for the DOJ’s withholding of the documents on the grounds of Exemption 5. Exemption Five exempts documents that include \"confidential, pre-decisional legal advice\" that are protected as part of the “deliberative-process and attorney-client communications privileges.\" Finding no reason to distinguish the EFF case from the case at issue, the judge applied the EFF case analysis and held that some of the documents requested by EPIC qualified for withholding under Exemption Five.\n\nAs a result, given that no un-exempted documents remained to be disclosed, the court granted DOJ's motion for summary judgment and dismissed the case with prejudice. In other words, EPIC was not granted copies of the documents for which they had submitted a Freedom of Information Act request.\n\nEight years after the initial FOIA request, through an ACLU lawsuit (which EPIC joined as plaintiff) concerning a similar FOIA request, EPIC obtained a mostly unredacted version of two key memos written by former Justice Department official Jack Goldsmith. The Stellar Wind program is described in the memos as containing four components, all of which are types of information the NSA has been authorized to collect without a court order: telephone content (i.e., warrantless wiretapping), Internet content, telephone metadata (i.e., the massive call records database), and Internet metadata. Providing legal justification for the Stellar Wind program, Goldsmith's memos argue that the president has \"inherent constitutional power to monitor Americans' communications without a warrant.\"\n\nWhile the memos are at times cited as justifying surveillance specifically in times of war, Goldsmith's memos cite the Federalist Papers to argue that \"the president can conduct warrantless searches for foreign intelligence 'even in peacetime.' \"\n\nMany argue that these legal justifications are retroactive and anti-democratic, in that the argument, as it stands, insulates the Executive Branch's surveillance efforts from Congressional disapproval.\n\nThe portions redacted are believed to include dissenting arguments, as well as the arguments that explicitly lay out justifications for undermining the American peoples' civil liberties.\n\n"}
{"id": "6229781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6229781", "title": "Equity stripping", "text": "Equity stripping\n\nEquity stripping, also known as equity skimming, is a type of foreclosure rescue scheme. Often considered a form of predatory lending, equity stripping became increasingly widespread in the early 2000s. In an equity stripping scheme an investor buys the property from a homeowner facing foreclosure and agrees to lease the home to the homeowner who may remain in the home as a tenant. Often, these transactions take advantage of uninformed, low-income homeowners; because of the complexity of the transaction, victims are often unaware that they are giving away their property and equity. Several states have taken steps to confront the more unscrupulous practices of equity stripping. Although \"foreclosure re-conveyance\" schemes can be beneficial and ethically conducted in some circumstances, many times the practice relies on fraud and egregious or unmeetable terms.\n\nThe term \"equity stripping\" has sometimes referred to lending refinance practices that charge excessive fees thereby \"stripping the equity\" out of the home. The practice more often describes foreclosure rescue scams. While most do not consider equity stripping a form of predatory lending per se, equity stripping is related to traditional forms of that practice. Subprime loans targeted at vulnerable and unsophisticated homeowners often lead to foreclosure, and those victims more often fall to equity stripping scams. Additionally, some do consider equity stripping, in essence, a form of predatory lending since the scam works essentially like a high-cost and risky refinancing. Equity stripping, however, is conducted almost always by local agents and investors, while traditional predatory lending is carried out by large banks or national companies.\n\nIn addition to the fraudulent uses described here, the term \"equity stripping\" also refers to the asset protection concept whereby the equity of an asset is encumbered, or stripped, to frustrate collection efforts by unsecured creditors. This can be done to protect the assets of individuals or organizations in high-risk businesses (e.g. doctors) from losing equity in lawsuit actions.\n\nTrends in the United States economy have led to the growing market for foreclosure services and equity stripping. Property values have increased dramatically from 2000-2005. However, with an increase in values, foreclosure rates also peaked in 2001 and remained high, leaving numerous foreclosed homeowners with substantial equity. With these trends, a market emerged to tap into this equity.\n\nA homeowner falls behind on his mortgage payments and enters foreclosure. Foreclosure notices are published in newspapers or distributed by reporting services to investors and rescue artists. Foreclosed homeowners also contact lenders to inquire about refinancing options.\n\nRescue artists obtain contact information for foreclosed homeowners and make contacts personally, by phone, or through direct mail. Some lenders and brokers will also refer foreclosed homeowners that do not qualify for new loans to rescue artists for a commission. Rescue Artists offer the foreclosed homeowner a \"miracle refinancing\" and/or say they can \"save the home\" from foreclosure.\n\nRescue artists arrange the closing (often delaying the date until shortly before the homeowner's removal to create urgency). At the closing, the homeowner transfers title (possibly unwittingly) to the rescue artist or an arranged investor. The rescue artist or arranged investor pays off the amount owed in foreclosure to acquire the deed, and inherits or is paid any portion of the homeowner's remaining equity. The rescue artist will reconvey the property back to the homeowner in the form of a lease or a contract for deed.\n\nThe homeowners remain in the home and pay rent or contract-for-deed payments (often higher than their previous mortgage payments). They inevitably fall behind, and are evicted from their homes with very little of their equity.\n\nSeveral states have passed laws to prevent and/or regulate equity stripping schemes. Minnesota passed a comprehensive law aimed at \"foreclosure re-conveyance\" practices in 2004, and Maryland in 2005 was the first of at least 14 other states to adopt the Minnesota model for regulating these transactions. These state laws require adequate disclosures, capped fees, and an ability to pay on behalf of the consumer. The statutes also ban certain deceptive and unfair practices associated with equity stripping.\n\nOther laws regulating the activity of \"foreclosure consultants\" have been passed in California, Georgia, and Missouri.\n\nAdditionally, state fraud and unfair and deceptive trade practices laws may be applicable. The Truth in Lending Act may also govern some transactions.\n\nIn certain circumstances, foreclosure rescue services can be beneficial to the consumer. When refinancing options are exhausted and foreclosure proceedings have led to near eviction, a foreclosure rescue transaction with moderate fees and full disclosures can be legally and ethically executed. \n\nA consumer can face removal from the property and the loss of their entire equity following a foreclosure auction. As an alternative, foreclosure rescuers have the ability to redeem the home from foreclosure with a new mortgage of their own. For a moderate fee or portion of the existing equity, this can keep the former homeowner in the home as a tenant while they repair their credit or increase their income. After a given time period, the homeowner can then repurchase the property from the rescuer.\n\nIf done with full verbal and written disclosure, terms the consumer is capable of fulfilling, and moderate total fees, foreclosure rescue can be suitable to consumers in dire situations.\nThis mechanism is often used by family members or friends in order to prevent the loss of a home. In effect, the investor \"lends\" their good credit to the foreclosed homeowner by paying off the foreclosed mortgage and obtaining the title to the home temporarily.\n"}
{"id": "1271173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271173", "title": "Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act", "text": "Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act\n\nThe United States Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (abbreviated as FFDCA, FDCA, or FD&C), is a set of laws passed by Congress in 1938 giving authority to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to oversee the safety of food, drugs, medical devices, and cosmetics. A principal author of this law was Royal S. Copeland, a three-term U.S. Senator from New York. In 1968, the Electronic Product Radiation Control provisions were added to the FD&C. Also in that year the FDA formed the Drug Efficacy Study Implementation (DESI) to incorporate into FD&C regulations the recommendations from a National Academy of Sciences investigation of effectiveness of previously marketed drugs. The act has been amended many times, most recently to add requirements about bioterrorism preparations.\n\nThe introduction of this act was influenced by the death of more than 100 patients due to a sulfanilamide medication where diethylene glycol was used to dissolve the drug and make a liquid form(see elixir sulfanilamide disaster). It replaced the earlier Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906.\n\nThe FDC Act has ten chapters:\n\nThe FD&C is perhaps best known by the consumer because of its use in the naming of food coloring additives, such as \"FD&C Yellow No. 6.\" The Act made the certification of some food color additives mandatory. Some food colorings are generally recognized as safe (GRAS) by the FDA and do not require certification.\n\nThe FDA lists nine FD&C (Food, Drugs & Cosmetics) certified color additives for use in foods in the United States, and numerous D&C (Drugs & Cosmetics) colorings allowed only in drugs for external application or cosmetics. Color additives derived from natural sources, such as vegetables, minerals or animals, and artificial counterparts of natural derivatives, are exempt from certification. Both artificial and naturally derived color additives are subject to rigorous standards of safety before their approval for use in foods.\n\nThere are also \"D&C\" colors that are only approved for use in pharmaceuticals for external application and cosmetics.\n\nThe FFDCA requires producers of food additives to demonstrate to a reasonable certainty that no harm will result from the intended use of an additive. If the FDA finds an additive to be safe the agency issues a regulation specifying the conditions under which the additive may be safely used.\n\nA shortened definition of \"food additive\" is defined by the FDA as \"any substance the intended use of which results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in its becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristic of any food (including any substance intended for use in producing, manufacturing, packing, processing, preparing, treating, packaging, transporting, or holding food; and including any source of radiation intended for any such use); if such substance is not GRAS or sanctioned prior to 1958 or otherwise excluded from the definition of food additives.\" The full definition can be found in Section 201(s) of the FD&C Act, which provides for any additional exclusions.\n\nHomeopathic preparations are regulated and protected under Sections 201(g) and 201(j), provided that such medications are formulated from substances listed in the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States, which the Act recognizes as an official drug compendium.\n\nHowever, under separate authority of FTC Act, the Federal Trade Commission declared in November 2016 that homeopathic products cannot include claims of effectiveness without \"competent and reliable scientific evidence.\" If no such evidence exists, they must state this fact clearly on their labeling, and state that the product's claims are based only on 18th-century theories that have been discarded by modern science.\n\nBottled water is regulated by the FDA as a food. The Agency has published identity standards for types of water (mineral water, spring water), and regulations covering water processing and bottling, water quality and product labeling.\nThis Act defines cosmetics as \"articles intended to be rubbed, poured, sprinkled, or sprayed on, introduced into, or otherwise applied to the human body...for cleansing, beautifying, promoting attractiveness, or altering the appearance.\" Under the Act, the FDA does not approve cosmetic products, but because the Act prohibits the marketing of adulterated or misbranded cosmetics in interstate commerce, it can remove cosmetics from the market that contain unsafe ingredients or that are mislabeled. The FDA can and does inspect cosmetics manufacturing facilities to ensure that cosmetics are not adulterated.\n\nOn May 28, 1976, the FD&C Act was amended to include regulation for medical devices. The amendment required that all medical devices be classified into one of three classes:\n\n\nFor devices that were marketed prior to the amendment (Preamendment devices) and were classified as Class III, the amendment obligated the FDA to review the device to either reclassify it as a Class II device subject to premarket notification, or to require the device manufacturer to undergo the premarket authorization process and prove the safety and efficacy of the device in order to continue marketing it. Notable examples of such preamendment devices are those used for electroconvulsive therapy, which the FDA started reviewing in 2011.\n\nSection 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act requires those device manufacturers who must register to notify FDA, at least 90 days in advance, of their intent to market a medical device.\n\nThis is known as Premarket Notification, PMN, or 510(k). It allows FDA to determine whether the device is equivalent to a device already placed into one of the three classification categories. Thus, \"new\" devices (not in commercial distribution prior to May 28, 1976) that have not been classified can be properly identified.\n\nAny device that reaches market via a 510(k) notification must be \"substantially equivalent\" to a device on the market prior to May 28, 1976 (a \"predicate device\"). If a device being submitted is significantly different, relative to a pre-1976 device, in terms of design, material, chemical composition, energy source, manufacturing process, or intended use, the device nominally must go through a premarket approval, or PMA. This does not always happen.\n\nA device that reaches market via the 510(k) process is not considered to be \"approved\" by the FDA. Nevertheless, it can be marketed and sold in the United States. They are generally referred to as \"cleared\" or \"510(k) cleared\" devices.\n\nA 2011 study by Dr. Diana Zuckerman and Paul Brown of the National Research Center for Women and Families, and Dr. Steven Nissen of the Cleveland Clinic, published in the Archives of Internal Medicine, showed that most medical devices recalled in the last five years for \"serious health problems or death\" had been previously cleared by the FDA using the less stringent, and cheaper, 510(k) process. In a few cases the devices had been deemed so low-risk that they did not need FDA regulation. Of the 113 devices recalled, 35 were for cardiovascular issues. This may lead to a reevaluation of FDA procedures and better oversight.\n\nPremarket approval (PMA) is the most stringent type of device marketing application required by FDA. Unlike the 510(k) pathway, the maker of the medical device must submit an application to the FDA and must receive approval prior to marketing the device.\n\nThe PMA application contains information about how the medical device was designed and how it is manufactured, as well as preclinical and clinical studies of the device, demonstrating that it is safe and effective for its intended use. Because the PMA requires a clinical trial it is significantly more expensive than a 510(k).\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997 created section 513(f)(2) of the FD&C Act, which obligated the FDA to establish a risk-based regulatory system for medical devices. As a result, the FDA established a \"de novo\" pathway for devices that would automatically be classified as Class III because there was no already-existing device that could be used a predicate for a 510k submission, but for which general controls or general and special controls could provide a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness.\n\nThe Wheeler-Lea Act, passed in 1938, granted the Federal Trade Commission the authority to oversee advertising of all products regulated by FDA, other than prescription drugs.\n\nDescriptions of these can be found at the FDA's web site.\n\nAmendments:\n\nOther laws:\n\nSome US states have adopted the FD&C Act as an equivalent state law and will by default adopt any changes to the Federal law as changes to the state law as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29045033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29045033", "title": "Finca", "text": "Finca\n\nIn English usage, a finca (; ) refers to a piece of rural or agricultural land, typically with a cottage, farmhouse or estate buildings present, and often adjacent to a woodland or plantation.\n\nEspecially in tourism, the term has recently gained the colloquial meaning of a holiday home in a rural setting, situated on the Spanish mainland, the Balearics, and the Canary Islands, and throughout the countries of Spanish-speaking Latin America. Similar rural properties can be found in Italy, despite having a different name. \n\nFincas can typically look back on an extensive development history, and are often older than 300 years. In some regions, however, especially on the Balearics, new buildings are erected.\n"}
{"id": "7480106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7480106", "title": "Forced labour camps in Communist Bulgaria", "text": "Forced labour camps in Communist Bulgaria\n\nAs in other Eastern Bloc states, Communist Bulgaria operated a network of forced labour camps between 1944 and 1989, with particular intensity until 1962. Tens of thousands of prisoners were sent to these institutions, often without trial.\n\nThe Red Army entered Bulgaria in September 1944 and immediately, partisans exacted reprisals. Tens of thousands were executed, including active fascists and members of the political police, but also people who were simply of the non-Communist intelligentsia, members of the professional and bourgeois classes. Merely displeasing a Communist cadre could lead to execution. These massacres were actively encouraged by Georgi Dimitrov, who sent a telegram from Moscow a week after the Soviets' arrival in Sofia calling for the \"torching of all signs of Bulgarian jingoism, nationalism, or anti-Communism\". On 20 September, the Central Committee called for \"anti-Communist resistance\" and \"counterrevolutionaries\" to be exterminated.\n\nA People's Tribunal was created in October 1944. This special court pronounced 12,000 death sentences, with over 2,700 eventually being executed. (In contrast, in 1941-1944, the years of active Communist resistance, 357 people were executed for all crimes.) In early 1945, a government decree allowed for the creation of Work Education Centers (TVO in Bulgarian). These were in fact concentration camps. The decision was approved by all parties in the Fatherland Front, including those whose members soon found themselves in the centers. One category of inmate included pimps, blackmailers, beggars and idlers, while the other comprised all those judged as political threats to the state's stability and security. The power to execute this decree fell to the Office of State Security within the Ministry of the Interior. Over the next decade, a series of laws and decrees strengthened the state police's powers.\n\nNot all people the regime found undesirable were put in forced labour camps. Deportation – forced resettlement in distant provincial areas – was another method employed. Between 1948 and 1953 some 25,000 were deported.\n\nForced labour camps operated at numerous sites across Bulgaria. The camps were set up near dams under construction, coal mines, and in certain agricultural areas. Some of the most infamous were Bobov Dol, Bogdanov Dol, Rositsa, Kutsian, Bosna, Nozharevo and Chernevo.\n\nPolitical prisoners from other camps were gathered and regrouped in the Belene labour camp, located on Persin (Belene), an island in the Danube near Romania.\n\nDeportations to the camps fell dramatically, perhaps ceasing altogether. However, Belene remained in operation.\n\nA number of new inmates arrived at Belene after the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and a crime wave in Sofia early in 1958. Among the figures held at Belene during this period included Konstantin Muraviev, the last Prime Minister of Bulgaria to hold office before the Fatherland Front coup of 9 September 1944.\n\nA prisoners' hunger strike forced the closure of Belene in 1959. Those not freed (some documents indicate 166 in number) were transferred to a new camp at Lovech that bordered a rock quarry. Several thousand eventually joined this original group. In September 1961, around a hundred female prisoners were sent to a neighbouring camp in Skravena. That November, conditions noticeably improved at Lovech. In spring 1962, the Politburo created a commission, led by Boris Velchev, to inspect Lovech, which was closed in April as a result of his delegation's visit.\n\nAt Lovech and Skravena, 149 inmates died from abuse during this period.\n\nLovech, a city in north-central Bulgaria, lies at the edge of the Balkan Mountains. The last and harshest of the major Communist labour camps was set up near an abandoned rock quarry outside the city. Until 1959, the camps had been spread across Bulgaria, but most were closed following Chervenkov's fall and the inmates transferred to Lovech. The Ministry of the Interior, not the regional authorities, had direct control over the camp. Most Bulgarians were unaware of its existence, but it had a reputation among those who had incurred the state's displeasure as a place from where one might never emerge alive.\n\nThe intensity of state repression varied during these years. A Politburo decision in 1962 said that an individual could be imprisoned and assigned to forced labour without a court trial. Repression in this period was of an administrative rather than political nature, targeting those accused of \"social parasitism\" or \"loose morals\", often with information given by \"people's organisations\" such as the Fatherland Front's neighbourhood sections. In the 1980s, numerous Turkish Bulgarians were sent to Belene.\n\nDuring the Lovech/Skravena period (1959–1962), Bulgarian state repression in the form of the camps happened along the following tiers (though the list of political and bureaucratic actors is not comprehensive):\n\n\nIn 1990, the Bulgarian Communist Party set up an inquiry commission into the camps. It found that between 1944 and 1962 there were approximately 100 forced labour camps in a country of 8 million inhabitants. Between 1944 and 1953, some 12,000 men and women passed through these camps, with an additional 5,000 between 1956 and 1962. According to one witness, Belene alone held 7,000 in 1952. Another estimates a total of 186,000 prisoners during this period. Definitive figures remain elusive.\n"}
{"id": "391581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=391581", "title": "Gerontocracy", "text": "Gerontocracy\n\nA gerontocracy is a form of oligarchical rule in which an entity is ruled by leaders who are significantly older than most of the adult population. The ancient Greeks were among the first to believe in this idea of gerontocracies; as famously stated by Plato, \"it is for the elder man to rule and for the younger to submit\". However, these beliefs are not unique to ancient Greece, as many cultures still subscribe to this way of thinking. Often these political structures are such that political power within the ruling class accumulates with age, making the oldest the holders of the most power. Those holding the most power may not be in formal leadership positions, but often dominate those who are. In a simplified definition, a gerontocracy is a society where leadership is reserved for elders. The best example of this can be seen in the ancient Greek city state of Sparta, which was ruled by a Gerousia. A Gerousia was a council made up of members who were at least 60 years old and served for life.\n\nIn the time of the Eight Immortals of Communist Party of China, it was quipped, \"the 80-year-olds are calling meetings of 70-year-olds to decide which 60-year-olds should retire\". For instance, Party leader Mao Zedong was 82 when he died, while Deng Xiaoping retained a powerful influence until he was nearly 90.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, gerontocracy became increasingly entrenched starting in the 1970s, at least until March 1985, when a more dynamic and younger, ambitious leadership headed by Mikhail Gorbachev took power. Leonid Brezhnev, its foremost representative, died in 1982 aged 75, but had suffered a heart attack in 1975, after which generalized arteriosclerosis set in, so that he was progressively infirm and had trouble speaking. During his last two years he was essentially a figurehead.\n\nIn 1980, the average Politburo member was 70 years old (as opposed to 55 in 1952 and 61 in 1964), and by 1982, Brezhnev's Minister of Foreign Affairs Andrei Gromyko, his Minister of Defense Dmitriy Ustinov and his Premier Nikolai Tikhonov were all in their mid-to-late seventies. Yuri Andropov, Brezhnev's 68-year-old successor, was seriously ill with kidney disease when he took over, and after his death fifteen months later, he was succeeded by Konstantin Chernenko, then 72, who lasted thirteen months before his death and replacement with Gorbachev. Chernenko became the third Soviet leader to die in less than three years, and, upon being informed in the middle of the night of his death, U.S. President Ronald Reagan, who was seven months older than Chernenko and just over three years older than his predecessor Andropov, is reported to have remarked \"How am I supposed to get anyplace with the Russians if they keep dying on me?\"\n\nOther Communist countries with leaders in their 70s or 80s have included Albania (First Secretary Enver Hoxha was 76 at death), Czechoslovakia (President Gustáv Husák was 76 at his resignation), East Germany (General Secretary and head of state Erich Honecker was 77 when forced out), Hungary (General Secretary János Kádár was 75 when forced out), Laos (President Nouhak Phoumsavanh was 83 at retirement), North Korea (President Kim Il-sung was 82 at death), Romania (General Secretary and President Nicolae Ceauşescu was 71 when he was killed), Vietnam (President Trường Chinh was 80 at retirement), Yugoslavia (President Josip Broz Tito was 87 at death). On the sub-national level, Georgia's Party head Vasil Mzhavanadze was 70 when forced out, and his Lithuanian counterpart Antanas Sniečkus was 71 at death. Nowadays, Cuba has been characterized as a gerontocracy: \"Although the population is now mainly black or mulatto and young, its rulers form a mainly white gerontocracy.\"\n\nGerontocracy is also common in religious theocratic states and organizations such as Iran, Saudi Arabia, the Vatican and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in which leadership is concentrated in the hands of religious elders. Despite the age of the senior religious leaders, however, parliamentary candidates in Iran must be under 75. Saudi Arabia is a theocratic monarchy with a gerontocratic system reminiscent of various late communist countries. Power is held by the Saudi family; the King and many of his most powerful relatives, alongside many senior clerics, are in their eighties. Recently, however, power has become concentrated by Mohammad bin Salman–31 years old when he was appointed Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia–who has sidelined powerful, older members of the Saudi family.\n\nIn Kenya, Samburu society is said to be a gerontocracy. The power of elders is linked to the belief in their curse, underpinning their monopoly over arranging marriages and taking on further wives. This is at the expense of unmarried younger men, whose development up to the age of thirty is in a state of social suspension, prolonging their adolescent status. The paradox of Samburu gerontocracy is that popular attention focuses on the glamour and deviant activities of these footloose bachelors, which extend to a form of gang warfare, widespread suspicions of adultery with the wives of older men, and theft of their stock.\n\nAfrican tribes such as this are known for their gerontocratic hierarchies. The Yoruba people, for example, are led by titled elders known as Obas and Oloyes. Although not an explicit requirement, most of them are decidedly elderly due to a variety of factors.\n\nThe Roman Republic was originally an example; the word \"senate\" is related to the Latin word \"senex\", meaning \"old man\". Cicero wrote:\n\nSome U.S. senators are very old, and positions of power within the legislatures - such as chairmanships of various committees - are usually bestowed upon the more experienced, that is, older, members of the legislature. Strom Thurmond, a U.S. senator from South Carolina, left office at age 100 after almost half a century in the body, while Robert Byrd of West Virginia was born in 1917 and served in the Senate from 1959 to his death in 2010. Senators under the age of 40 are virtually unknown.\n\nIn the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, the government headed by M. Karunanidhi the state's chief minister who is 87 years old, is another real-world example of gerontocracy. In another Indian state, West Bengal, Shri Jyoti Basu, was 86 years old when he stepped down from the office of chief minister of the state. But he continued to remain a member of the Politburo of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) until a few months before his death in January 2010 and was consulted on all matters related to governance by the Chief Minister and his Cabinet as well as his other party colleagues.\n\nPresent-day Italy is often considered a gerontocracy, even in the internal Italian debate. The Monti government had the highest average age in the western world (64 years), with its youngest members being 57. Former Italian prime minister Mario Monti was 70 when he left office, his immediate predecessor Silvio Berlusconi was 75 at the time of resignation (2011), the previous head of the government Romano Prodi was 70 when he stepped down (2008). The Italian president Sergio Mattarella is 75, while his predecessors Giorgio Napolitano and Carlo Azeglio Ciampi were 89 and 86 respectively. In 2013, the youngest among the candidates for prime minister (Pier Luigi Bersani) was 62, the others being 70 and 78. The current average age of Italian university professors is 63, of bank directors and CEOs 67, of members of parliament 56, of labor union representatives 59.\n\nOutside the political sphere, gerontocracy may be observed in other institutional hierarchies of various kinds. Generally the mark of a gerontocracy is the presence of a substantial number of septuagenarian or octogenarian leaders—those younger than this are too young for the label to be appropriate, while those older than this have generally been too few to dominate the leadership in numbers. The rare centenarian who has retained a position of power is generally by far the oldest in the hierarchy.\n\nGerontocracy generally occurs as a phase in the development of an entity, rather than being part of it throughout its existence. Opposition to gerontocracy may cause weakening or elimination of this characteristic by instituting things like term limits or mandatory retirement ages.\n\nJudges of the United States courts, for example, serve for life, but a system of incentives to retire at full pay after a given age and disqualification from leadership has been instituted. The International Olympic Committee instituted a mandatory retirement age in 1965, and Pope Paul VI removed the right of cardinals to vote for a new pope once they reached the age of 80, which was to limit the number of cardinals that would vote for the new Pope, due to the proliferation of cardinals that was occurring at the time and is continuing to occur.\n\nOn the other hand, gerontocracy may emerge in an institution not initially known for it, for instance the Latter Day Saint movement founded by Joseph Smith, a 24-year-old man, who in 1835 constituted the first Quorum of the Twelve Apostles with members ranging in age from 23 to 35: After the death of Smith, it was established in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) that succession to the church presidency derived from longest tenure in an office held for life, the hierarchy aged markedly, and with the growth of the church the age at which officials were named to the highest bodies continued to rise. Eight church presidents have held office past the age of 90 (two not succeeding to that office until age 93).\n\n"}
{"id": "38084318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38084318", "title": "Glebelization", "text": "Glebelization\n\nThe concept of Glebelization comes from interdisciplinary studies according to which the process of the worldwide impoverishment is intended as the direct consequence of the phenomena of the present economic globalization. The process of economy mundialization is almost an unquestionable reality for a long time. This process, which according to some authors began even with the Italian Maritime Republics in the Mediterranean Sea and then consolidated with the discover of the New World, has been considered from different point of view by scholars of different social disciplines. The “Globalization” – as it is intended today this reality – has entailed well-known undoubted advantages, but entailing also non-trivial difficulties and contraindications. First of all the huge and apparently inexorable influence that the worldwide finance – which has been left free and without rules – performs in the economic world, so much that it had to be defined as “independent variable” of the economic system. That is, according to other scholars, we find us to operate in a “financiarized economy”. With the existence of an uncontrolled and global finance, together with unprecedented means of communication and innovation processes more and more rapid, the frameworks and the paradigms – which up until now have featured the approaches of the economic sciences, the politics, the sociology and the law – have the necessity of a deep reconsideration that could highlight the systemic interconnections amongst the different method of analysis. These analysis of interdisciplinary origin sometimes have obtained results which lead to make the conclusion that the mundialization process won’t represent a mere “globalization” with a positive amount as difference in terms of growing and development. On the contrary, it will entail the concentration of the worldwide richness in the hands of few groups, with a contextual generalized impoverishment of the middle classes, over all the Western’s ones, until today rich and powerful. Here, the consequent neologism “Glebelization” which conveys the return to the villeinage’s generalized poorness in the Middle Age or to the sceneries masterfully described in Charles Dickens’ novels narrating the miserable conditions of the poorer classes of the previous centuries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27046810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27046810", "title": "Government revenue", "text": "Government revenue\n\nGovernment revenue is money received by a government. It is an important tool of the fiscal policy of the government and is the opposite factor of government spending. Revenues earned by the government are received from sources such as taxes levied on the incomes and wealth accumulation of individuals and corporations and on the goods and services produced, exports and imports, non-taxable sources such as government-owned corporations' incomes, central bank revenue and capital receipts in the form of external loans and debts from international financial institutions. It is used to benefit the country. Governments use revenue to better develop the country, to fix roads, build homes, fix schools etc. The money that government collects pays for the services that is provided for the people.\nThe sources of finance used by the central government are mainly taxes paid by the public.\n\nSeignorage is one of the ways a government can increase revenue, by deflating the value of its currency in exchange for surplus revenue, by saving money this way Governments can increase the price of goods too far. \n\nGovernments across the world earn \"public revenue\" from the following main sources:\n\n"}
{"id": "6025205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6025205", "title": "Groundwater recharge", "text": "Groundwater recharge\n\nGroundwater recharge or deep drainage or deep percolation is a hydrologic process where water moves downward from surface water to groundwater. Recharge is the primary method through which water enters an aquifer. This process usually occurs in the vadose zone below plant roots and is often expressed as a flux to the water table surface. Recharge occurs both naturally (through the water cycle) and through anthropogenic processes (i.e., \"artificial groundwater recharge\"), where rainwater and or reclaimed water is routed to the subsurface.\n\nGroundwater is recharged naturally by rain and snow melt and to a smaller extent by surface water (rivers and lakes). Recharge may be impeded somewhat by human activities including paving, development, or logging. These activities can result in loss of topsoil resulting in reduced water infiltration, enhanced surface runoff and reduction in recharge. Use of groundwaters, especially for irrigation, may also lower the water tables. Groundwater recharge is an important process for sustainable groundwater management, since the volume-rate abstracted from an aquifer in the long term should be less than or equal to the volume-rate that is recharged.\n\nRecharge can help move excess salts that accumulate in the root zone to deeper soil layers, or into the groundwater system. Tree roots increase water saturation into groundwater reducing water runoff.\nFlooding temporarily increases river bed permeability by moving clay soils downstream, and this increases aquifer recharge.\n\nArtificial groundwater recharge is becoming increasingly important in India, where over-pumping of groundwater by farmers has led to underground resources becoming depleted. In 2007, on the recommendations of the International Water Management Institute, the Indian government allocated to fund dug-well recharge projects (a dug-well is a wide, shallow well, often lined with concrete) in 100 districts within seven states where water stored in hard-rock aquifers had been over-exploited. Another environmental issue is the disposal of waste through the water flux such as dairy farms, industrial, and urban runoff.\n\nWetlands help maintain the level of the water table and exert control on the hydraulic head (O'Brien 1988; Winter 1988). This provides force for groundwater recharge and discharge to other waters as well. The extent of groundwater recharge by a wetland is dependent upon soil, vegetation, site, perimeter to volume ratio, and water table gradient (Carter and Novitzki 1988; Weller 1981). Groundwater recharge occurs through mineral soils found primarily around the edges of wetlands (Verry and Timmons 1982) The soil under most wetlands is relatively impermeable. A high perimeter to volume ratio, such as in small wetlands, means that the surface area through which water can infiltrate into the groundwater is high (Weller 1981). Groundwater recharge is typical in small wetlands such as prairie potholes, which can contribute significantly to recharge of regional groundwater resources (Weller 1981). Researchers have discovered groundwater recharge of up to 20% of wetland volume per season (Weller 1981).\n\nIf water falls uniformly over a field such that field capacity of the soil is not exceeded, then negligible water percolates to groundwater. If instead water puddles in low-lying areas, the same water volume concentrated over a smaller area may exceed field capacity resulting in water that percolates down to recharge groundwater. The larger the relative contributing runoff area is, the more focused infiltration is. The recurring process of water that falls relatively uniformly over an area, flowing to groundwater selectively under surface depressions is depression focused recharge. Water tables rise under such depressions.\n\nDepression focused groundwater recharge can be very important in arid regions. More rain events are capable of contributing to groundwater supply.\n\nDepression focused groundwater recharge also profoundly effects contaminant transport into groundwater. This is of great concern in regions with karst geological formations because water can eventually dissolve tunnels all the way to aquifers, or otherwise disconnected streams. This extreme form of preferential flow, accelerates the transport of contaminants and the erosion of such tunnels. In this way depressions intended to trap runoff water—before it flows to vulnerable water resources—can connect underground over time. Cavitation of surfaces above into the tunnels, results in potholes or caves.\n\nDeeper ponding exerts pressure that forces water into the ground faster. Faster flow dislodges contaminants otherwise adsorbed on soil and carries them along. This can carry pollution directly to the raised water table below and into the groundwater supply. Thus the quality of water collecting in infiltration basins is of special concern.\n\nPollution in stormwater runoff collects in retention basins. Concentrating degradable contaminants can accelerate biodegradation. However, where and when water tables are high this affects appropriate design of detention ponds, retention ponds and rain gardens.\n\nRates of groundwater recharge are difficult to quantify since other related processes, such as evaporation, transpiration (or evapotranspiration) and infiltration processes must first be measured or estimated to determine the balance.\n\nPhysical methods use the principles of soil physics to estimate recharge. The \"direct\" physical methods are those that attempt to actually measure the volume of water passing below the root zone. \"Indirect\" physical methods rely on the measurement or estimation of soil physical parameters, which along with soil physical principles, can be used to estimate the potential or actual recharge. After months without rain the level of the rivers under humid climate is low and represents solely drained groundwater. Thus, the recharge can be calculated from this base flow if the catchment area is already known.\n\nChemical methods use the presence of relatively inert water-soluble substances, such as an isotopic tracer or chloride, moving through the soil, as deep drainage occurs.\n\nRecharge can be estimated using numerical methods, using such codes as Hydrologic Evaluation of Landfill Performance, UNSAT-H, SHAW, WEAP, and MIKE SHE. The 1D-program HYDRUS1D is available online. The codes generally use climate and soil data to arrive at a recharge estimate and use the Richards equation in some form to model groundwater flow in the vadose zone.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43612602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43612602", "title": "HM Advocate v Coulson", "text": "HM Advocate v Coulson\n\nHer Majesty's Advocate v Andrew Coulson was the trial of Andy Coulson, a former editor of the \"News of the World\" and former Director of Communications for David Cameron, on charges of perjury.\n\nHe was detained by Strathclyde Police on 30 May 2012 in London, and taken to Helen Street police station in Glasgow. He was later charged with having committed perjury in 2010 during \"HM Advocate v Sheridan and Sheridan\"\nHe appeared at Glasgow Sheriff Court on 13 June 2013 in private, represented by Richard Keen QC; no plea or declaration was made and he was given bail. There was a ban on reporting this at the time, but it was challenged by some media outlets and lifted a few days later.\n\nOn 6 August a preliminary hearing took place at Glasgow High Court, he was not present, but the indictment was made public. \n\nThe trial was scheduled to begin on 21 April 2015, and to last 6 weeks. It was postponed because of the general election, and eventually started on 15 May 2015 at the Edinburgh High Court, with a jury of nine men and six women, presided over by judge David Burns, Lord Burns, Coulson was represented by Murdo MacLeod QC.\n\nOn 1 June 2015, the judge acquitted Coulson. However, the acquittal was suspended while the Crown considered whether to appeal the decision and was therefore not announced until 3 June. Explaining his ruling, Lord Burns said that for Coulson to be found guilty it was necessary for the Crown to prove that the allegedly untrue evidence he had given at the 2010 Sheridan trial had been relevant to the issues in it. The judge added that it was for him, and not the jury, to decide on this aspect of the case and that the Crown’s legal submissions had failed to satisfy him that Coulson’s evidence had been sufficiently relevant to the Sheridan trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "8823880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8823880", "title": "Henry Martin (socialist)", "text": "Henry Martin (socialist)\n\nHenry Martin (c. 1864–1951), also known as Harry Martin, was a British socialist.\n\nMartin was one of the most notable of the impossibilists in the Social Democratic Federation (being expelled in April 1904), and helped found the Socialist Party of Great Britain later that year. A member of its first Executive Committee (1904–1905), Martin was expelled on 8 April 1905 owing to his joining an unemployed rights association. He rejoined the Party on 6 November 1906 and left again, only to rejoin on 19 June 1908. He was then a speaker for the Party (1909–1911), an Executive Committee member (1911) and briefly Lambeth branch secretary (1911) before finally resigning over the WB of Upton Park affair in 1911. The issue at stake was essentially whether socialist MPs should vote for reforms, the dissidents taking the stance that they never should. He was a member of the anti-reform Provisional Committee of 1911 and subsequently long-term organiser of the Socialist Propaganda League (an SPGB split-off). He died early in 1951, aged 87.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23145755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23145755", "title": "Homelessness in Iraq", "text": "Homelessness in Iraq\n\nThe causes of homelessness in Iraq are diverse. Forced evictions of internally displaced persons from public land and buildings have contributed heavily to the homeless population of the country. In 2007, the United Nations estimated that 16% of the Iraqi population have fled their homes because of the conflict, and half of these have left the country, leaving some of the remaining in the country homeless, though some rent housing or stay with family and friends.\n"}
{"id": "13002869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13002869", "title": "Labor–Green Accord", "text": "Labor–Green Accord\n\nThe Labor–Green Accord was a 1989 political agreement between the Labor Party and the Tasmanian Greens (then called the Green Independents) to form government in the Australian state of Tasmania after the 1989 general election had resulted in a hung parliament.\n\nThe election took place on 13 May 1989. Tasmanian elections use the Hare-Clark Proportional method of Single Transferable Votes, and in 1989 the Tasmanian House of Assembly (the lower house of the Parliament of Tasmania) consisted of 35 seats—seven members from each of Tasmania's five electorates.\n\nThe Liberal Party led by Premier Robin Gray suffered a two-seat swing, leaving them with 17 seats, one short of a majority. Labor (led by Michael Field) won 13. The Green Independents won 5 seats, giving them the balance of power in the parliament.\n\nThe five Green MPs and their electorates were Dr Bob Brown (Denison), Christine Milne (Lyons), Dr Gerry Bates (Franklin), Lance Armstrong (Bass) and Di Hollister (Braddon).\n\nGray refused to concede defeat, and announced his intention to form a minority government, exercising his right to stay on as Premier until defeated on the floor of the House of Assembly. He also stated that if Labor and the Greens attempted to do a deal to form government, he would advise the Governor of Tasmania, Sir Phillip Bennett, to dissolve parliament and call a fresh election.\n\nThe accord was signed on 29 May. Governor Bennett considered Gray's request to call another election but declined, as constitutionally the Gray government was still in caretaker mode, and he had assurances from the Greens that they would support a Field government. He therefore concluded that Gray no longer had enough support to govern, and was therefore not in a position to ask for a new election. When the new House rejected Gray's choice for Speaker, Gray took this as evidence that he had indeed lost the support of the chamber and resigned. Bennett then commissioned Field as Premier.\n\nThe formation of the Labor–Green alliance resulted in one of the biggest scandals in Tasmanian political history. Launceston businessman Edmund Rouse was the managing director of ENT Limited, Tasmania's largest media company. Returning to Tasmania from an overseas trip shortly after the election, Rouse was dismayed to find the Greens in a position of power in government, and was determined to take on what he saw as a grave threat to the Tasmanian and Australian economies. In particular, Rouse was concerned with the effect on the Tasmanian timber company Gunns, of which he was chairman, and which he thought stood to lose between $10 million and $15 million as a result of the Greens' environmental policies.\n\nUsing a former employee, Tony Aloi, as an intermediary, Rouse offered Labor MP Jim Cox A$110,000 to cross the floor and vote with the Liberals to defeat the presumed motion of no confidence against Gray when parliament resumed. Cox informed Field of the offer, and the call was dismissed as a hoax until an instalment of $5,000 arrived at Cox's home. Cox reported the bribery attempt to Tasmania Police, who placed a tap on his phone and arrested Aloi on 23 June as he called Cox from a telephone box.\n\nRouse was arrested several days later, after Aloi revealed his role in the affair. Rouse was charged with attempted bribery, and sentenced to three years in prison, of which he served eighteen months. Aloi was sentenced to twelve months prison, with eight months suspended sentence.\n\nA Royal Commission (\"Royal Commission into an Attempt to Bribe a Member of the House of Assembly\") was held in 1991, which attempted to determine the involvement of Robin Gray in the affair. Gray was cleared of involvement in the bribe attempt, as no connection between him and Rouse was established, although he had met with Rouse shortly before the bribe was offered and discussed a possible Labor defector. Gray's conduct was criticised by the Commission, however, and his political career and reputation were tarnished.\n\nIn return for the promise of stable government, the Parliamentary Accord committed both parties to work towards common objectives, balancing broad changes to environmental management policies with Tasmania's economic and employment concerns. Several environmental and social policies requested by the Greens were implemented, including:\n\nThe Greens terminated the accord after 409 days on 1 October 1990, when the state cabinet announced its adoption of the Federal Government's Forests and Forest Industry Strategy (FFIS), however an election was not required until 1992. The accord was never considered a coalition government, as the Green MPs had no ministerial responsibilities, and as such had no say in the adoption of the forestry policy.\n\nMichael Field and Christine Milne spoke about the breakdown of the accord to the ABC program \"Stateline\" in 2006. Field compared the relationship between Labor and the Greens to a \"forced marriage\" which ended in a \"very acrimonious divorce\". Milne stated:\n\"What destroyed the Labor-Green Accord was the betrayal of the Greens by the Labor Party over resource security legislation.\"\n\nAfter the breakdown of the accord, an election was called for 1 February 1992. Although the Greens retained all of their five seats, Labor lost two seats to the Liberals, led by Ray Groom, who now had a majority.\n\nThe next election in 1996 saw Labor regain three seats and the Greens lose one. Ray Groom, who had promised before the election to only govern with a majority, resigned and handed the leadership to Tony Rundle, who formed a loose alliance with the Greens to govern in a minority until 1998, when the major parties voted to restructure the House of Assembly (from 35 to 25 seats) in an (ultimately, unsuccessful) attempt to make it more difficult for minor parties to be elected. Rundle immediately called an election, which Labor won comfortably, leaving the Greens with only one seat.\n\nChristine Milne led the Tasmanian Greens from 1993, when Bob Brown left to make an unsuccessful bid for the Federal House of Representatives. He was elected as a Senator in 1996, and Milne followed him to become a Senator in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "57934089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57934089", "title": "LeadNow", "text": "LeadNow\n\nLeadNow (French: ) is a Canadian non-profit, multi-partisan citizens' advocacy organization formed in 2010. It campaigns for changes to environmental policy, workers rights, education, and proportional representation.\n\nThe organization has been a vocal opponent to the Trans Mountain Pipeline.\n\nDuring elections, LeadNow has advocated for its members to vote strategically as a tool to advance its advocacy. \"Vote Together\" campaigns have targeted swing ridings. LeadNow's strategic voting efforts have been criticized by CUPE, the New Democratic Party, Elizabeth May and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "46190913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46190913", "title": "Liberty Bell (Portland, Oregon)", "text": "Liberty Bell (Portland, Oregon)\n\nLiberty Bell refers to one of two replicas in Portland, Oregon, United States, of the original Liberty Bell in Philadelphia. The first replica was purchased in 1962, and installed in the rotunda of City Hall in 1964. On November 21, 1970, it was destroyed in a bomb blast that also damaged the building's east portico. The second replica was installed outside of City Hall soon after the blast (c. 1972) with funds from private donations. It was constructed at the McShane Bell Foundry in Baltimore and dedicated on November 6, 1975. The bell is listed as a state veterans memorial by the Oregon Department of Veterans' Affairs.\n\nPortland has had two replicas of Philadelphia's original Liberty Bell. The first replica was purchased in 1962 for $8,000. It arrived in Portland in June 1963, with a damaged base and beam since the sculpture had slipped off its supports. Repairs were made before the replica was paraded through the city on a flatbed truck, then put into storage until Independence Day. The bell was publicly rung for the first time during holiday celebrations and installed in City Hall's rotunda on May 5, 1964.\n\nOn November 21, 1970, a dynamite bomb that had been placed beneath the bell detonated, damaging City Hall's east portico columns, shattering windows, and destroying the replica. No one was injured, but \"shards of bell went everywhere through the main portico\". The crime remains unsolved; no one claimed responsibility or was prosecuted for the blast. In 1993, \"The Oregonian\" said: \"Wild, highly vocal speculation blamed the blast on either left-wing or right-wing terrorists, depending, of course, on the accusers' own political persuasions. Others guessed it was a monumental prank that careened out of control.\"\n\nPortland's second replica is located outside of City Hall's east portico, near the intersection of Southwest Fourth and Madison streets and across from Terry Schrunk Plaza. Private donations totaling $8,000 allowed a new bell to be purchased for $6,000 and installed not long after the blast (c. 1972). The bell has also been attributed as a gift from Philadelphia residents to Portland school children. It was constructed at the McShane Bell Foundry in Baltimore and received a 25-year guarantee against breakage. The replica was dedicated on November 6, 1975. It was surveyed and considered \"treatment needed\" by the Smithsonian Institution's \"Save Outdoor Sculpture!\" program in October 1993. The Oregon Department of Veterans' Affairs lists the bell as one of the state's veterans memorials.\n\nThe sculpture is made of Best Genuine Bell Metal, a sixteen percent min-copper alloy, and measures approximately . It is attached to a horizontal beam that is supported by two V-shaped beams. The base is made of brick, metal (steel) and wood (mahogany covering) that measures approximately . The west side displays the inscription . Raised lettering along the top of the bell reads . The founder's mark also appears. Smithsonian categorizes the sculpture as allegorical for symbolizing liberty.\n\nThe bell has been included in published walking tours of Portland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3114745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3114745", "title": "List of national capitals in East, South, and Southeast Asia", "text": "List of national capitals in East, South, and Southeast Asia\n\nThis is a list of East, South, and Southeast Asian capitals.\n"}
{"id": "23024785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23024785", "title": "Merkén", "text": "Merkén\n\nMerkén or merquén (from the Mapuche \"mezkeñ\") is a smoked chili pepper (or in Spanish, \"ají\") used as a condiment that is often combined with other ingredients when in ground form. Merkén is a traditional condiment in Mapuche cuisine in Chile.\nThe base ingredient of merkén is the smoked pepper \"cacho de cabra\" (\"Capsicum annuum\" var. \"lungum\") a dried, smoked, red pepper that is sometimes ground with toasted coriander seed and salt. The peppers are dried naturally in the sun and are then smoked over a wood fire. They are then stored by being hung to dry prior to grinding. Once reduced to powder or flakes, the peppers are often mixed with salt and roasted ground coriander seed.\nMerkén originates primarily from the cuisine of the Mapuches of the Araucanía Region of Chile, but is also used in the Chilean cuisine as a replacement for fresh chili. Since the beginning of the 21st century, merkén has drawn the attention of professional chefs and has begun to find an international market, at the same time, having a widespread use in Chilean cuisine. \n\nMerkén is most commonly used as:\n\n"}
{"id": "38157231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38157231", "title": "Natives on Private Estates Ordinance 1928", "text": "Natives on Private Estates Ordinance 1928\n\nNatives on Private Estates Ordinance, 1928 was a colonial ordinance passed by the Legislative council of the Nyasaland protectorate, now Malawi, (a body mainly of senior colonial officials, with a minority of nominated members representing European residents) to regulate the conditions under which African tenants who farmed land on estates owned by European settlers within that protectorate. The legislation corrected some of the worst abuses of the system of thangata, under which tenants were required to work in lieu of paying rent. However, it failed in its intention of encouraging these tenants to increase production on the undeveloped land in those estates because of the world-wide economic downturn in the Great Depression of the 1930s. Tensions between estate owners and tenants continued in the 1940s and early 1950s over evictions and the tenants’ desire to market their produce freely. The legislation was modified in 1952 to meet some of these problems, but only the colonial government's purchase of estate lands to resettle former tenants after 1952 and final abolition of thangata by the Africans on Private Estates Ordinance, 1962, passed shortly before independence, created an African peasantry with free access to farming land.\n\nIn the three decades after 1860, southern Malawi was transformed by a combination of warfare and raiding for slaves and ivory from a region where farming supported a reasonable population to one where the lack of security led to the widespread abandonment of agriculture land. Local chiefs attempted to gain protection from European settlers by granting them the right to cultivate land which, although fertile, was insecure and therefore vacant. Once the British Central Africa Protectorate had been proclaimed in 1891, these settlers gained legal ownership of this land from the protectorate administration. Although many of the grants contained “non-disturbance” clauses allowing resident Africans to continue to cultivate their existing fields rent-free, most owners claimed the right to demand labour in exchange for allowing them farm part of their land. The Nyasaland settlers adopted the term “thangata” for this from the Chewa language, where it meant freely-given help with agricultural work, but its colonial meaning was performing labour in lieu of rent.\n\nIn the early years of the Nyasaland protectorate, the estates needed workers to establish plantations. Many estates were established in areas where few Africans lived because of insecurity and, when the owners introduced labour rents, some of those who did moved to rent-free land that their community retained. New workers, often migrants escaping harsh conditions in Mozambique, were encouraged to move onto estates and grow their own crops, but were required to pay rent and Hut tax, at first usually satisfied by two months’ labour a year. These migrants did not belong to any local community, so had no claim to farm communal land. Before 1905, relatively little estate land was planted as the owners searched for economically viable crops. However, cotton was grown commercially from 1905. This needs much labour during its 5 or 6 month growing season for successful results. Between 1910 and 1925, tobacco was also grown in plantations and like cotton, it required a great deal of labour. On several estates, labour tenants’ obligations were now extended, sometimes to a total of four to six months of thangata for rent and Hut tax, leaving tenants with little time to grow food. A number of abuses grew up, including under-recording days worked, not making cash payments if tenants performed more than the required thangata and requiring 30 days work (five weeks of six days) for each month of thangata obligation. The wives of absent migrant workers, widows and single women were also forced to do thangata work, in breach of custom. In 1903, the Nyasaland High Court declared the original inhabitants of estates granted subject to “non-disturbance” clauses were exempt from thangata and had security of tenure. Legislation regulating some aspects of thangata was enacted in 1908, but not implemented. The harshness of thangata was one reasons for the 1915 uprising led by John Chilembwe. \n\nFollowing this rising, a radical new government ordinance was made in 1917 that attempted to abolish thangata in favour if cash rents by making it illegal for landowners to require labour services in lieu of rent. If this measure had taken effect, thangata would have ended, but it failed to be implemented because the estate owners threatened to evict large numbers of tenants who were in excess of their basic requirements. Those evicted would become a pool of landless casual labour that the estates need only call on when they required. Even though the government acceded to the owners' threats, the latter still chose to expel significant numbers of tenants unable to work or considered to be troublesome in favour of tractable migrants from Mozambique.\n\nOf the estate crops grown by direct labour, coffee had failed by 1905, cotton by 1918, and tobacco by 1925: only tea continued as a profitable estate crop. Some estates in the lower Shire River valley were abandoned and, on other estates, cultivation was scaled back. \nMost tobacco was now grown by smallholders on Crown land. As the demand for estate labour declined in the 1920s, the owners had insufficient work for their tenants to meet their thangata obligations and claimed that they had become rent-free squatters who should be evicted if they refused to grow economic crops. Larger estates were saved from collapse by replacing direct labour with the scheme of tenants growing cotton and tobacco and selling these to the planters at low prices. This system was formalised in legislation, the 1928 Natives on Private Estates Ordinance, which modified thangata by allowing rents to be paid in cash, by a fixed quantity of acceptable crops or by direct labour. The estates now acted largely as brokers for their tenants’ produce, although the name thangata was now also applied to rent in kind. The older form of labour thangata persisted where owners wished to grow crops through direct labour. It was estimated that about 9% of Malawi’s Africans lived on estates in 1911. In 1945, it was about 10%, or 173,000 residents in 49,000 families. By 1962, this had been reduced to 9,000 families \n\nFollowing the First World War, a Land Commission was set up in 1920 to determine how much of the land in Nyasaland should be made available for future European settlement and what existing rights of estate tenants should be preserved and what new ones given. The Commission recommended that all permanent rent-free tenancies under non-disturbance clauses should end, but that tenants-at-will should be given some security of tenure. Apart from the elderly or widows, all should pay rents in cash, in kind or by providing labour. The owners should also have the right to evict surplus tenants to stop their estates becoming overcrowded. The Colonial Office opposed abolishing rights under non-disturbance clauses without a long fixed tenancies, and a five-year term was agreed. By the time legislation was prepared in 1928, there was little demand for more plantations, as the existing estates were ending direct production in favour of marketing tenants’ produce. The legislation enacted in 1928 therefore emphasised that rents could be satisfied by delivering a fixed quantity of acceptable crops to the owner as well as by direct labour or in cash. It met some of the estate owners’ demands but also gave some protection to tenants from the worst excesses of thangata.\n\nThe full title of the legislation was “An Ordinance to Regulate the Position of Natives residing on Private Estates, (No 14 of 1928)” and it was normally called the Natives on Private Estates Ordinance, 1928. The Ordinance created a class of registered “Resident Natives”, who had entered into tenancy agreements: only these and their families had the right to live on the private estate of their tenancy for the term of their lease. Male children of residents lost the right to live on estates at 16 years old, and owners could refuse to allow the husband of a resident’s daughter to settle. Every registered tenant, except the elderly or widows, had to pay a rent which could be satisfied in cash, by labour or by giving produce to the owner. From 1928, District Rent Boards fixed maximum cash rents: most chose a rate of £1 for an 8 acre tenant’s plot although some estates charged less. The Boards also designated acceptable crops (mainly tobacco or cotton, sometimes maize) and fixed the amounts equivalent to rents. The required value of crops was between 30 and 50 shillings instead of £1 cash, particularly penalising maize to discourage tenants from this option. A Land Commission of 1903 reported that normal annual rent and Hut tax burden of tenants was six shillings, and from 1911 there was the option of providing fixed amounts of tobacco or cotton. However, estate owners expected that there tenants would work for at least two months rather than pay rent in cash or kind. As the demand for labour increased, owners refused to accept cash so the rent of six shillings, which remained virtually unchanged for other two decades before 1928, was purely nominal. By 1928, the value of the several months’ labour actually provided was roughly £1. The owners of estates over 10,000 acres would be allowed to expel up to 10% of their tenants in 1933 (and every five years thereafter) without showing any cause: those expelled were to be re-settled on Crown Lands. There was provision for future compulsory purchase of up to 10% of estates over 10,000 acres as a last resort, if no Crown Lands were available.\n\nThe Natives on Private Estates Ordinance was intended to encourage African tenants to increase production on the vast amounts of undeveloped estate land within Nyasaland. It failed because, in the world-wide economic depression of the early 1930s, estate owners could not buy all the crops offered in lieu of rent or employ much labour. It did not provide a permanent solution to the land question, as it did not deal with the problem of estate land that was under-utilised but not freely available to African farmers nor with the owners' ability to evict tenants. The first evictions allowed under the Ordinance were due in 1933, but no large-scale evictions took place then. There were few evictions in 1938 either, because District Commissioners refused to enforce them when no re-settlement land was available.\n\nEvictions in 1943 were also limited, as hundreds of Africans told to leave in the Blantyre District refused to leave as there was no land for them to go to, and the colonial authorities declined to use force. The Governor expected that more would take place in 1948 and also anticipated considerable trouble as in 1943. However, eviction notices were suspended because of the serious famine in 1949 until 1950. By September 1950, enough land had been obtained for resettlement and the evictions proceeded’ although they were resisted. The Governor of Nyasaland therefore set up a committee to review the 1928 ordinance and to suggest amendments. The committee proposed to end 5-yearly evictions and growing economic crops in lieu of rent, but to increase rents to an economic level, but with reductions for unmarried and other single women.\n\nThere remained tensions between estate owners and tenants in the 1940s and early 1950s over evictions and the tenants’ wish to sell produce of their choice in local markets, not through the company. New legislation was introduced in 1952, and the tensions were lessened by government land purchases, mainly of former tobacco estates, after 1952. However, in the overcrowded Cholo district, the main area of tea estates, which retained thangata, grievances over thangata in 1953 led to major disturbances in which eleven people died. In 1962, the 1928 Ordinance was replaced by a 1962 Africans on Private Estates Ordinance that granted tenants security of tenure and abolished all forms of thangata requiring labour or the production of designated crops, replacing them with cash rents.\n\n"}
{"id": "38760615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38760615", "title": "Nepal Zone of Peace Proposition", "text": "Nepal Zone of Peace Proposition\n\nNEPAL-Zone of Peace (ZoP) (Nepali:नेपाल शान्तिक्षेत्र प्रस्ताव) was a proposition made by King Birendra during his coronation ceremony in 1975. King Birendra formally asked the international community to endorse his proposal that the United Nations should declare Nepal a ZoP, so as to give a new dimension to the Nepalese non-alignment.\n\n\"As it's one of the most ancient civilizations in Asia, our natural concern is to preserve our independence, a legacy handed down by history. We need peace for our security, independence and for development. And if today, peace is an overriding concern for us, it is only because our people genuinely desire peace in the country, in our region and elsewhere in the world. It is with this earnest desire to institutionalize peace that I stand to make a proposition—a proposition that my country, Nepal, be declared a Zone of Peace. As heirs to a country that has always lived in independence, we wish to see that our freedom and independence shall not be thwarted by the changing flux of time, when understanding is replaced by misunderstanding, when conciliation is replaced by belligerency and war.\"\n\nThe proposal has been endorsed by over 130 nations, but has since become moribund with the fall of the Panchayat System in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "13518960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13518960", "title": "Ottoman Public Debt Administration", "text": "Ottoman Public Debt Administration\n\nThe Ottoman Public Debt Administration (OPDA) (Ottoman Turkish: \"Düyun-u Umumiye-i Osmaniye Varidat-ı Muhassasa İdaresi\", or simply \"Düyun-u Umumiye\" as it was popularly known), was a European-controlled organization that was established in 1881 to collect the payments which the Ottoman Empire owed to European companies in the Ottoman public debt. The OPDA became a vast, essentially independent bureaucracy within the Ottoman bureaucracy, run by the creditors and its governing council was packed with European government officials. It employed 5,000 officials who collected taxes that were then turned over to the European creditors. At its peak it had 9,000 employees, more than the empire’s finance ministry.\n\nThe OPDA played an important role in Ottoman financial affairs. Also, it was an intermediary with European companies seeking investment opportunities in the Ottoman Empire. In 1900, the OPDA was financing many railways and other industrial projects. The financial and commercial privileges of the non-Muslim foreigners were protected with the capitulations of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, between 1918 and 1924 Ottoman revenue stamps overprinted O.P.D.A. or A.D.P.O., or stamps printed with those inscriptions, were issued for use in Palestine, Transjordan, Syria and Lebanon.\n\n"}
{"id": "50891853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50891853", "title": "Peasants' revolt of 996 in Normandy", "text": "Peasants' revolt of 996 in Normandy\n\nThe Norman peasants' revolt in 996 was a revolt against Norman conquerors. The revolt was defeated by nobility under early reign and minority of Richard II, Duke of Normandy. His uncle Rodulf of Ivry was the regent of Normandy during the revolt.\n\nThe revolt was started in 996 after the peasants had met in local assemblies (\"conventicula\") of throughout Normandy. The revolt was coordinated by a central assembly (\"conventus\") that was formed by members of the local assemblies. Each \"conventicula\" sent two representatives to the central assembly. \n\nThe peasants wanted concessions on various economic grievances. These included Barons harassing the peasants with vexatious services, the main reason however was the removal of hunting rights, lest a deer be killed. Medieval sources claim that the revolt was caused by demands of free hunting and fishing rights.\n\nThe revolt probably did affect only Seine valley rather than whole Normandy. Dating of the revolt in 996 has been also disputed.\n\nThe revolt may have been a reaction to rise of serfdom in Normandy. It has been suggested that the revolt resulted in abolishing serfdom in Normandy. Lack of serfdom in Normandy has been also linked to depopulation of coastal France brought by warfare. However, evidence for existence and extent of serfdom has been difficult to obtain.\n\nPeasant leaders who brought complaints to the regent Rodulf of Ivry had their hands and feet cut off, after they were captured. Others were blinded, impaled, or burnt alive, land owners forfeited their land.\n\nDespite the revolt at start of his reign, rest of the Richard II's reign was very peaceful. In May 1023 he did not implement the Peace of God due to calm situation in his lands. However, Normandian culture returned to its Frankish characteristics and lost Scandinavian influences such as Norman language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25380421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25380421", "title": "People's Liberation Army of Manipur", "text": "People's Liberation Army of Manipur\n\nThe People's Liberation Army of Manipur, often shortened to just People's Liberation Army (PLA) was founded by N. Bisheshwar Singh on 25 September 1978, is a separatist armed revolutionary group fighting for a separate independent socialist state of Manipur, a state in northeastern India. Though it claims to fight for the entire state, the Nagas, Kukis and the tribals in the state are virtually not part of the group. The cadres are drawn from the Meitei people who predominantly follow Vaishnavism.\n\nSince its founding, it has been waging a guerrilla based warfare against the Indian Armed Forces and has targeted the Indian Army, Indian Paramilitary Forces and the State Police Force. However, during the late nineties, it declared a unilateral decision not to target the Manipur Police.\n\nThe death of some top leaders in combat (like President Thoudam Kunjabehari in 1982), and the arrest of others (like N. Bisheshwar, arrested in 1981) decreased its military activity in the eighties. In 1989, a political wing called the Revolutionary People's Front (RPF) was formed. The RPF formed a government in exile in Bangladesh, led by Irengbam Chaoren, and began a restructuring of the organisation. The Organisation become very active. Its operation was divided into four sections: Sadar Valley West Hill areas of Manipur, Sadar Hill areas in the east Valley, Hill areas of Manipur and Imphal valley, each with a commander, and other ranks.\n\nThe organisation has an estimated strength of some 3800 as of 2008.\n\nPLA is also a member of the Manipur Peoples Liberation Front, an umbrella organisation of three separatist organisation of Manipur namely UNLF and PREPAK\n\nTheir flag is red with the emblem on the centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "8821513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8821513", "title": "Platform for Transparency", "text": "Platform for Transparency\n\nPlatform for Transparency was a loose unofficial grouping within the European Parliament, established in 2005, for three MEPs who are not affiliated to an official European political party.\n\nThe grouping does not appear to have an official leader or organisational structure and, instead, appears to work as a means through which its members can collectively draw attention to what it believes are irregularities within the European Union.\n\nThe members of Platform for Transparency were:\n\nOn 8 January 2007 it was reported that Ashley Mote will become a member of the new Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty group in the European Parliament, which includes far-right and nationalist elements.] It is not known if this will affect the continued operation of Platform for Transparency.\n"}
{"id": "53642969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53642969", "title": "Policy learning", "text": "Policy learning\n\nPolicy learning is the increased understanding that occurs when policymakers compare one set of policy problems to others within their own or in other jurisdictions. It can aid in understanding why a policy was implemented, the policy's effects, and how the policy could apply to the policymakers' jurisdiction. Before a policy is adopted it goes through a process that involves various combinations of elected official(s), political parties, civil servants, advocacy groups, policy experts or consultants, corporations, think tanks, and multiple levels of government. Policies can be challenged in various ways, including questioning its legality. Ideally policymakers develop complete knowledge about the policy; the policy should achieve its intent and efficiently use resources.\n\nPolicy learning through globalization has helped government organizations become more competitive. Policymakers have easy access to global policy knowledge through the internet, access to think tanks, international institutions such as the United Nations, International Monetary Fund (IMF) or the World Bank and individual experts.\n\nIn the 1960s academics started to study how policymakers learn about policies. During that time countries were experiencing social, political, economic and technological change. Researchers discovered that governments in different countries faced similar problems in policies and programs amidst uncertainty on how to handle problems in financing its welfare programs. Policymakers start to learn about policy through facts, first-hand experiences or from the experiences of others.\n\nPolicy instruments and policy implementation are the steps to policy learning. Policymakers review policy objectives, tools and implementation strategies. When implementations fail, reviews look for the cause(s). Adjustments in objectives, tools and implementation are considered.\n\nInstrumental policy learning is the acquisition of knowledge about the effectiveness of various policy instruments and implementatiions, Policymakers must make choices about the appropriate policy intervention tool(s) to use. The intent is to discover the most effective tool(s) that consume the least resources.\n\nPolicymakers can employ seven major policy instrument types. \n\n\nAfter choosing a policy instrument, the details for employing the instrument must be arranged. Implementation carries risks of failing in various ways, such as ineffectiveness, unacceptable delays and excessive costs. Practices that improve success rates include setting reasonable expectations, allowing adequate time and sufficient resources, having clear communication and u nderstanding policy objectives, minimizing the number of approvals, simplifying management structures and aligning all relevant groups around the implementation, along with mechanisms to adapt the implementation in accord with subsequent experience to correct problems and take advantage of new opportunities.\n\nThe top-down approach involves allowing high-level policymakers set objectives and define implementation strategies. Lower level implementers carry out the policy. Objectives must be clearly defined and the implementation tools must be selected based on the implementation strategy. Policy designers need to assess the commitment of policy implementers who could be teachers, police officers, social workers or private sector workers.\n\nOne example of the top-down approach was in 1973 when the US Congress passed a policy limiting the driving speed to 55 mph on America’s freeways under the National Maximum Speed Law. The policy objective was to reduce gasoline consumption. In addition to increased travel times, a side effect was the reduction of freeway fatalities. \n\nThe bottom-up approach helps policymakers to evaluate whether policy goals are open to more than one interpretation. Does the policy implement a statute, or reflect rules, practices and/or norms such as energy policy or criminal procedure? Are the policy goals internally consistent? How will the policy affect the activities of workers who directly provide services? Bottom-up approaches require policymakers to involve both service providers and service recipients in refining goals, strategies and activities. This bottom-up approach starts from consumer-facing bureaucrats and moves up to the top policymakers. Should the policy face pushback, policymakers must be open to negotiations for a compromise approach. The bottom-up approach emphasizes low level policy implementers, but policy learners must not attempt to frustrate the goals of top policymakers.\n\nIn America, the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) adopted policyies that would have benefited from bottom-up perspectives. When NCLB was passed, many states struggled to figure out what was required. All states had to get their education plans approved by U.S. Department of Education. Once the education plan was approved, each state had to incorporate NCLB into the state's framework of educational governance and to use the legislation to achieve the state's own goals. If the U.S. federal government had consulted with each state about its education policies, performances, and future goals, teachers and the government would have had a better understanding on what policy objectives were achievable.\n\nPolicy learning has not been embraced in some countries. Some countries that were once colonized fear that embracing policies recommended by outsiders will allow other countries to exploit their resources. Rockefeller (1966) claimed that in Latin America in the early 1960s free-market policies were in competition with communist propaganda in Latin American countries. At the time American business were claimed to be exploiting the people and their resources. However, companies such as Chase Manhattan Bank launched a program in Panama to improve cattle raising by training ranchersr to follow the scientific advances of seeding, feeding and breeding cattle more effectively. This process improved the quality of beef, which encouraged higher meat consumption, improved dietary standards and made Panama a beef exporter.\n\nEuropean countries created the Euro to simplify trading between European Union countries. Adopting the Euro would remove currency risk and the cost of currency conversion, and provide a common monetary policy among members. Policy learning took places as more European countries learned that joining the Eurozone would give them access to other markets. Citizens of EU member countries could travel to other EU countries within the Schengen area without transiting a border checkpoint. The learning did not reach all policy sectors. Some EU countries kept their budgets in near balance amid strong growth and employment, while others' budgets were so far out of balance that their overall debt created fears about their ability to make their payments. \n"}
{"id": "22734451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22734451", "title": "Report on the Construction of Situations", "text": "Report on the Construction of Situations\n\nReport on the Construction of Situations is the founding Manifesto of the Situationist International revolutionary organization. The pamphlet was published by Guy Debord in June 1957, and the following month the organization was founded, at Cosio d'Arroscia, Italy. \n\nThe organization was founded by the fusion of three organizations: the Lettrist International, the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus, and the London Psychogeographical Association.\n\nThe complete title is Report on the Construction of Situations and on the International Situationist Tendency’s Conditions of Organization and Action.\n\nExpressing the view of the national leaders of the previous organizations, particularly Jorn, Debord, Gallizio and Korun, this report defines the main political aim of the movement as revolutionary:\nFirst, we believe that the world must be changed. We desire the most liberatory possible change of the society and the life in which we find ourselves confined. We know that such change is possible by means of pertinent actions.\n\nDuring the May 1968 general strike, the Situationists, against the unions and the Communist Party that were starting to side with the de Gaulle government to contain the revolt, called for the formation of workers' councils to take control of the factories, expelling union leaders and left-wing bureaucrats, in order to keep the power in the hands of the workers with direct democracy.\n\nThe imbecilization that young people undergo within their families and schools, has then a natural continuation in the \"deliberately anticultural production\" of novels, films, et cetera, conducted with the means of large-scale industry.\n\nIn his 1961 film \"Critique of Separation\", Debord returned on this topic adding:\n\nIn contrast, the sense of the \"Report on the Construction of Situations\" is to fulfill human primitive desires and pursue a superior passional quality. The main goal of the \"Situationist International\" is precisely the setting up of environments that favor such fulfillments.\n\nFor Debord, official culture is a \"rigged game\", where conservative powers forbid subversive ideas to have direct access to the public discourse, and where such ideas are integrated only after being trivialized and sterilized.\n\nDebord discusses the close link between revolution and culture and everyday life, and the reason why conservative powers are interested in forbidding them \"any direct access to the rigged game of official culture.\" Debord recalls that worldwide revolutionary movements that emerged during the 1920s were followed by \"an ebbing of the movements that had tried to advance a liberatory new attitude in culture and everyday life,\" and that such movements were brought to a \"complete social isolation.\"\n\nHistorically, revolutionary ideas have emerged first among artists and intellectuals. For this reason, artists and intellectuals are relegated into specialized, compartmentalized disciplines, defusing their revolutionary potential and imposing unnatural dichotomies such as the \"separation of art from politics\". Once artistic-intellectual works are separated from current events and from a comprehensive critique of society, they are sterilized and can be safely integrated into the official culture and the public discourse, where they can add new flavors to old dominant ideas and play the role of a gear wheel in the mechanism of the society of the spectacle.\n\nOne of the contradictions of the bourgeoisie [...] is that while it respects the abstract principle of intellectual and artistic creation, it resists actual creations when they first appear, then eventually exploits them. This is because it needs to maintain a certain sense of criticality and experimental research among a minority, but must take care to channel this activity into narrowly compartmentalized utilitarian disciplines, dismissing all comprehensive critique and research. In the domain of culture, the bourgeoisie strives to divert the taste for the new, which has become dangerous for it, toward certain degraded forms of novelty that are harmless and confused. [...] The people within avant-garde tendencies who distinguished themselves are generally accepted on an individual basis, at the price of vital renunciations: the fundamental point of debate is always the renunciation of comprehensive demands, and the acceptance of a fragmentary work, susceptible to multiple interpretations. This is what makes the very term \"avant-garde\", which in the end is always defined and manipulated by the bourgeoisie, somewhat suspicious and ridiculous. ( pp.2-3 )\n\nIn his 1959 film \"On the Passage of a Few Persons Through a Rather Brief Unity of Time\", Debord returned on this topic adding:Knowledge of empirical facts remains abstract and superficial as long as it is not concretized by being related to the whole situation. This is the only method that enables us to supersede partial and abstract problems and get to their \"concrete essence\", and thus implicitly to their meaning. [...] We can never really challenge any form of social organization without challenging all of that organization’s forms of language. [...] When freedom is practiced in a closed circle, it fades into a dream, becomes a mere image of itself.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2510531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2510531", "title": "Sami People's Party", "text": "Sami People's Party\n\nThe Sami People's Party (, ) is a Norwegian political party, founded on 15 October 1999, without parliamentary representation, that refers to the Sami ethnic minority in Northern Norway.\n\n"}
{"id": "1814505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1814505", "title": "Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei", "text": "Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei\n\nThe Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei (SVT), occasionally known in English as Fijian Political Party, was a party which dominated politics in the 1990s and was the mainstay of coalition governments from 1992 to 1999.\n\nThe party was founded in 1990 as the political vehicle of the Great Council of Chiefs, with the declared goal of uniting all indigenous Fijians. A new constitution promulgated in 1990, following two military coups in 1987, abolished the \"national\" parliamentary seats elected by universal suffrage (which had comprised almost half the House of Representatives); all members henceforth were to be elected by enrolled voters on \"communal\" electoral roles that were limited to specific ethnic communities, each of which had an allocated number of seats in the House (37 indigenous Fijians, 27 Indo-Fijians, 1 Rotuman, and 5 General Electors (Europeans, Chinese, Banaban Islanders, and other minorities). The end to multiracial voting resulted in a trend towards intracommunal politics, and multiracial parties like the old Alliance Party of longtime Prime Minister Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara were therefore dissolved and replaced by parties representing principally a single ethnic group.\n\nRatu Mara had announced his intention not to contest the election that was to be held in 1992, but his wife, Ro Lady Lala Mara, a chief in her own right as the \"Roko Tui Dreketi\", or Paramount Chief of Burebasaga, one of three hierarchies to which all Fijian chiefs belong in the House of Chiefs, seemed a natural choice to lead a new party as the successor to his. In addition to the Great Council of Chiefs, the powerful Methodist Church also endorsed the party.\n\nMajor General Sitiveni Rabuka, who had led the 1987 coups, joined the new party also, along with his supporters, and he soon outmaneuvered Ro Lala for the leadership and her family subsequently distanced themselves from the party. The SVT won the general election of 1992, but the subsequent defection of six parliamentarians left it without a workable majority. Internal strife weakened the party, and many influential members of the Great Council of Chiefs grew disillusioned with it, as did the Methodist Church. Despite this, it won a plurality in the parliamentary election that was called three years early, in 1994. Allegations of corruption eroded the popularity of the SVT-led government, which was heavily defeated in the general election of 1999 by the People's Coalition, taking just 8 of the 71 seats in the House of Representatives. Rabuka quit as leader of the party, and was followed by several short-lived leaders.\n\nFollowing the coup d'état of 2000, Taufa Vakatale resigned as president of the SVT and former Foreign Minister Filipe Bole assumed leadership of the party. It contested the election held to restore democracy in 2001 on a platform of supporting the 1997 constitution with amendments, free public transport for school children, an increase in government spending to alleviate poverty, and promotion of community initiatives to end domestic violence. It also called for a return to first past the post voting. These policies failed to stem the tide, and the SVT's share of the vote sank to just 5.5 percent, and it failed to win any seats. Much of the support it had previously enjoyed went to the new Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua of Laisenia Qarase.\n\nIn June 2002, many members of the party merged with a number of other parties to form the Fiji Democratic Party, under Bole's leadership. This party dissolved itself in April 2005 to join the new National Alliance Party of Fiji, under the leadership of Ratu Epeli Ganilau.\n\nA rump of the SVT resisted the merger, and continues (as of 2005) to exist under the presidency of Rabuka. In May 2005, divisions appeared in the leadership of the party over the government's controversial proposal to establish a Reconciliation and Unity Commission with the power to recommend amnesty to perpetrators of the 2000 coup and compensation to its victims. Rabuka endorsed the proposal, as did executive member Militoni Leweniqila, but Ema Druavesi, General Secretary of the SVT, spoke out against it, calling it a political ploy to retain the support of the Conservative Alliance (CAMV), on whose six parliamentary votes the government depends for its majority. She also expressed concern that the bill interfered with the judicial system. Leweniqila, however, said that not only was the proposal nothing new, it was in fact one that Rabuka, on behalf of the SVT, had proposed as long ago as 2002. He added, however, that acknowledging the government of deposed Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry as the lawful government of the land would be the right place to start.\n\nTowards the end of 2005, the SVT found itself fending off allegations relating to the 2000 coup. In interviews with the Fiji Sun, a daily newspaper, Josaia Waqabaca and Maciu Navakasuasua (who served a three-year prison term for coup-related offences) implicated some senior members of the SVT in the planning of the coup. Druavesi strongly denied that the party had been involved in any way whatsoever, and that if any SVT officials had participated in the plot, they must have done so as individuals, not as representatives of the party. She called on the police to interrogate those identified by Waqabaca and Navakasuasua, however, to determine the truth of the allegations.\n\nOn 26 June 2005, Druavesi made a stinging attack on the ruling Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua (SDL), accusing it of racism, corruption, and incompetence. Policies enacted supposedly for the benefit of indigenous Fijians had benefited only a few people with family or business ties to government leaders, she said. \"Top posts and lucrative contracts were awarded to people who support the party,\" she alleged. Druavesi said she believed that the Fijian people, disappointed by the SDL-CAMV coalition, would return to the SVT in the 2006 election.\n\nDruavesi's attacks notwithstanding, Rabuka pursued negotiations with the SDL, and on 25 November Prime Minister Qarase confirmed that his own party would definitely be working with the SVT in the forthcoming election. He expected that one expression of cooperation between the SDL and the SVT, as members of the Grand Coalition, would be to exchange electoral preferences between themselves before going outside the group. Under Fiji's voting system, votes cast for low-polling candidates may be transferred to higher-polling candidates as agreed prior to the election.\n\nDruavesi said on 23 February 2006 that the door was open for former members of the Conservative Alliance, which was dissolved on the 18th, to join the SVT. Not all CAMV members had supported the merger of their party with the SDL, she told the Fiji Village news service. She also revealed that the party had received more than a hundred written applications from persons willing to contest the 2006 election for the SVT.\n\nThe Fiji Sun reported on 2 March that party officials had met the previous weekend and had decided to continue working as part of the Grand Coalition. The party would not disband or merge with another party, and would retain its identity, Druavesi said. This was because the party was an original one, not a breakaway from another party.\n\nThe party won at the Fiji election of 2006 no seats.\n\nLike many other political parties, the SVT was disbanded some time after the military coup of 2006.\n"}
{"id": "2721492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2721492", "title": "Special vote", "text": "Special vote\n\nIn New Zealand, a special vote or special declaration vote is a vote made by an elector who is unable to cast an ordinary vote because they are unable to visit a polling place in their own electorate or, the elector is not on the electoral roll.\n\nSpecial votes can be made by anyone who: \n\nAdvance ordinary voting became available at the 2011 election, so people who cannot attend a polling booth on election day can cast their vote early without having to cast a special vote.\n\nThose in another electorate can cast a special vote at any polling place, after filling in a form explaining their reason for needing a special vote. Special polling places are set up in hospitals, maternity homes and rest homes and voting can take place in these places on election day. Voters who are overseas or otherwise unable to vote on election day, and do not have access to a hospital polling place, can vote by mail. Some New Zealand High Commissions and Embassies provide polling places.\n\n"}
{"id": "21224627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21224627", "title": "Strategic leadership", "text": "Strategic leadership\n\nStrategic Leadership is the ability to influence others to voluntarily make decisions that enhance the prospects for the organisation's long-term success while maintaining short-term financial stability. Different leadership approaches impact the vision and direction of growth and the potential success of an organization. To successfully deal with change, all executives need the skills and tools for both strategy formulation and implementation. \nManaging change and ambiguity requires strategic leaders who not only provide a sense of direction, but who can also build ownership and alignment within their workgroups to implement change.\n\nStrategic leadership provides techniques that focus organizations when they are deciding on their purpose and best business practices that are critical for remaining competitive and relevant. Being able to learn and adapt has become vital for sustainability. Failure to be able to adapt to changing technology, climate change, and economic factors risks the organization becoming obsolete.\n\nRemaining successful requires a different way of thinking about how to marshal the resources and deliver services. Strategic leadership balances a focused analytical perspective with the human dimension of strategy making (as documented by the Park Li Group). It is important to engage the entire business in a strategy dialogue in order to lay the foundation for building winning organizations that can define, commit, adjust and adapt their strategy quickly as needed.\n\nThe analytical dimension and the human dimension\n\nLeaders face the continuing challenge of how they can meet the expectations of those who placed them there. Addressing these expectations usually takes the form of strategic decisions and actions. For a strategy to succeed, the leader must be able to adjust it as conditions require. But leaders cannot learn enough, fast enough, and do enough on their own to effectively adapt the strategy and then define, shape and execute the organizational response. If leaders are to win they must rely on the prepared minds of employees throughout the organization to understand the strategic intent and then both carry out the current strategy and adapt it in real time. The challenge is not only producing a winning strategy at a point in time but getting employees smart enough and motivated enough to execute the strategy and change it as conditions change. This requires the leader to focus as much on the process used to develop the strategy – the human dimension, as the content of the strategy – the analytical dimension.\n\nLeaders recognize the need to incorporate aspects of both the analytical and human dimensions to effectively drive the organization forward but how this insight translates into action varies significantly from leader to leader.\n\nThese differences are largely driven by the bias leaders have for how they divide their time between the two dimensions. This bias is reflected in how leaders answer questions such as the following:\n\n\nHow leaders answer these questions will ultimately impact their ability to deliver a winning strategy because their responses indicate whether and how they build and lead an organization that is aligned and committed to a particular agenda.\n\nQuestion 1: What is their primary role as chief strategist?\n\nShould the focus be on being the architect of the strategy product or being the architect of the strategy process? Is their primary job to come up with the right strategy or is it to manage a process to achieve this outcome?\n\n\"Analytical:\" From an analytical perspective the chief strategist’s job is to be the “architect of the perfect strategy product.” Leaders holding this perspective see the strategy itself as the outcome and managing the process is either ignored or delegated, frequently to individuals who lack line of sight to the senior person. Their concerns center on organizing and mastering the data, developing the arguments and looking for that burst of insight that will drive the organization’s competitive advantage and provide the foundation for future success.\n\n\"Human:\" Answering the same question from the perspective of the human dimension, the chief strategist’s job is to be the “architect of the perfect strategy process.” Leaders holding this perspective see the process as the primary outcome and the product, while important, can and should be built by others. There is a recognition that the product will necessarily evolve so the more important endpoint is to build the capacity for strategic thinking across the group so that change, when it occurs, can be absorbed more quickly and more completely.\n\nQuestion 2: What is their job as a leader during ongoing strategy making?\n\nLinked to the first question, this second question focuses on how leaders conceptualize their role as they participate in the ongoing strategy process. Is it to provide bold, clear leadership that elicits confidence in their personal capabilities as “hero”, or is it to serve as a “coach and guide” who enables others to perform and stand in the limelight?\n\n\"Analytical:\" Analytical leaders feel the need to personally come up with the right answer. If they are to be the leader, they must be the one with the solutions. They feel obligated to lead from the front on strategic issues, demonstrating expertise through business insights and customer knowledge, skillfully outsmarting the competition and outguessing the marketplace. These leaders are seen as visionary, smart leaders comfortably assuming star status as they fill the role of a Homeric hero.\n\n\"Human:\" These leaders view themselves as coaches or guides, believing that the organization’s strategy is only as good as the breadth and depth of the understanding and commitment that it attracts. Responsibility for developing the strategy is widely dispersed but carefully coordinated. These leaders focus on guiding and responding while building commitment and empowerment among those building the strategy.\n\nQuestion 3: What type of team should their strategy making create?\n\nThis third question recognizes that every strategy process defines a community and creates a team. This is true whether the leader is aware of it or not and whether the leader manages it or not. The question being asked is, “Does the strategy making create an exclusive club of capable thinkers, or create a broad base of ownership and commitment leading to a sense of citizenship across a much larger group?”\n\n\"Analytical:\" The analytical approach to strategy creates an exclusive “inner circle” of thinkers who are in the know and make most of the decisions. Being part of this group feels good because it is similar to being part of a private society. The common element that binds society members together is their close knit exclusiveness and the extraordinary access and understanding of the data and thinking that leads to the strategy. This smaller group is well versed in the views of the leader and the data, and knows how the different pieces of the strategy fit together.\n\n\"Human:\" A leader focusing on the human dimension is concerned about building a sense of citizenship among a much larger group of people. It is built around a process that invites much broader participation and relies on input from many others outside of the top team. The aim is to create a sense of belonging and ownership across the organization. In this situation many more people feel they can have an informed opinion about the overall strategy. They believe they have been part of its development, and that they can influence the outcome. In that sense, it is their strategy.\n\nQuestion 4: When is strategy making finished?\n\nMost leaders have an idea of how strategy making and time are related. The question being asked is, “Is strategy making as a discrete set of sequential activities with a defined start and stop? Or, is strategy something that is continually reforming itself, never quite complete or perfected but always in a state of evolution?” At its essence, the question is, “In the organization, is the strategy process fundamentally linear with a defined beginning and end or is it fundamentally iterative with no defined endpoint?”\n\n\"Analytical:\" From the analytical view good strategy making follows a linear process with each task being “checked off” as it is completed. As set out in many strategy texts, it is a set of reasonably well defined steps leading to a fully formed plan of execution. Effectively, the strategy is set for a defined time period and executed.\n\n\"Human: \" Leaders who lean to the human dimension see strategy as a continuing work in process, something that is more free-flowing, never truly complete but continuously being shaped as interactions occur with customers and competitors and as new issues and knowledge emerge from the people throughout the organization. They are comfortable circling back on key ideas and frequently will drive the strategy process to re-visit critical assumptions and, based on the insights gained, alter course. For these individuals, changes in strategy are markers of leadership success, not leadership failure.\n\nTo integrate both dimensions into strategy making in a way that creates a winning outcome and gets the whole organization understanding and committed to this common agenda requires leaders who are clear about the strategic capacity of each of their internal stakeholder groups and who have the perspective and insights to lead in a way that incorporates both dimensions as the strategy is developed. The steps described below are intended to provide the leader with techniques to do that. Taken collectively, they define a process that incorporates both the analytical and human dimensions, while challenging individuals throughout the organization to raise the quality and quantity of their strategic thinking and their strategic leadership.\n\nStrategy making that enlists large groups of employees needs a common vocabulary and a common set of tools in order to be effective. Deciding on a vocabulary is not difficult but it does need to be done with intent and with a sense of discipline. The number of terms that get used during strategy making seems at times almost endless and includes such words as Vision, Mission, Fact Base, KPI, Goal, Objective, Scorecard, Driver, Strategic Action Plan, Strategic Issue Analysis, Governing Principle, and Metric to name a few. Establishing a common vocabulary begins and ends by getting alignment around three questions, “What does X mean? Why and when is it used?” and “Is X necessary in developing the strategy and building understanding and ownership for it over time?”\n\nClosely linked to the need for a common vocabulary is the need for a common set of frameworks or tools to build your strategy. In many cases, toolsets come with their own embedded vocabulary. Some leaders use relatively more elaborate tools such as shareholder value add (SVA), computer modeling, and scenario planning.\n\nOther leaders tend toward simplicity. Jack Welch described his toolset as a series of 5 questions with the answers ultimately leading up to what he called “the Big Aha.” His 5 questions included:\n\n\nThere is a great deal of useful vocabulary and many fine toolsets in the strategy marketplace and no shortage of advocates for one or another of these. The important outcome is that the leader, as the executive leading the strategy process, needs to select a vocabulary and a toolset, use it consistently over time and require others in the senior and middle ranks of the organization to do the same.\n\nFinally, when deciding what vocabulary and toolset is best to use while working across large populations, simpler is usually better. The simpler the language and the fewer the tools, the more accessible the strategy becomes to larger groups of people and the more people can understand it, know how they should think and talk about it, and identify how they can contribute. Some situations require more sophisticated (i.e. more complicated) tools because there is a need for much more thorough analytics. Many do not. The right balance point between comprehensiveness and simplicity will provide enough analytical complexity to adequately describe the marketplace, the customers, what you do and how you will compete, but nothing more than that. Simplicity, where it can be found, makes a significant difference when working across a large population.\n\nBroadening and strengthening the team at the senior levels of the organization begins with an honest assessment of whether there actually is a working strategy currently in place and if there is, the state of understanding and ownership for it in the organization.\n\nThe lack of clarity and ownership deeper in the organization leads to 1) misallocated resources because people are working at cross purposes, 2) excessive leadership time spent correcting and clarifying the direction because others are not convinced or they fail to understand it, and 3) poor execution of the strategy due to diffuse and differing priorities. Perhaps most importantly it directly impacts organizational agility because there is no broad understanding and agreement on the current strategy, so subsequent changes to the strategy make no more sense than the original agenda.\n\nLeaders can address these dynamics by broadening out the understanding and ownership of the strategy to a much larger group without sacrificing the sense of commitment at the top of the organization. Having this larger group of managers accountable for successfully defining and executing a strategy is not only critical to building winning strategies but if done in a way that includes both the analytical and the human dimensions, it is incredibly energizing for the organization. This is especially true in those cultures and organizations where the decision making is traditionally held more closely by a relatively small group of senior people.\n\nThe mechanics of how to broaden the senior team will vary depending on cultural and organizational considerations. The key is to create a common context for both the “what” and the “why” of the strategy that serves as a critical touchstone for the broader leadership team. In most cases, the process creates a group of 50–100 or more people who recognize that they are collectively accountable for the success of the entire strategy and not just their piece of it. These steps lay the foundation for partnering with the middle of the organization by setting the stage for the senior team to speak with one voice to the middle managers.\n\nWith varying degrees of success, many leaders get their strategy making to this point and either stop or their process stalls. A major reason is the lack of understanding and commitment to the steps required to build more effective strategic leadership practices and a strategy dialogue in the operating groups below the senior managers. These groups and especially their leadership teams frequently do not know how to proceed and there is no consistent in-house resource to assist them. The net effect is the sense of excitement and momentum that was generated at the top of the house in the earlier stages of the strategy process is lost and the strategy team of employees is derailed before it is even gets started. One of the best ways to address this is to identify and train a cadre of high potential line managers in the middle of the organization that can serve as champions of the strategy process to those both above and below them. In this sense they serve both as a catalyst for the process and as a bridge between formulation and implementation. They do not replace the leadership role of the senior teams in each of these operating group but they do serve as a critical additional resource that is dedicated to creating momentum and fostering consistency. This can be especially important if the strategy defined requires changes in the organizational culture as well as the business model. This resource also helps to ensure that the day-to-day running the business is not neglected as the demands of building a large scale strategy dialogue come into play.\n\nThe make-up of this strategy support team (SST) generally includes 1 or more people from each of the operating groups, usually 2–3 downs from the senior person. The skills and behaviors required of these individuals are a blend of both the analytical and the human dimensions. Too much emphasis on one dimension over the other undermines the effectiveness of the role. In partnership with the senior team from their operating group, the members of the SST serve as a coach and guide for the strategy process as it unfolds. In this capacity, they reinforce expectations and teach methods for building and sustaining a strategy dialogue in their respective groups, ensure that the local strategy product being produced is of a uniform quality (including vocabulary and tools), and foster behavioral and organizational alignment over time. Additional roles for these individuals might also include facilitator, tracker and chaser, success and failure transfer agent across the businesses and writer when required.\n\nIn addition to serving as a resource to those around them, it is unique opportunity of the SST members to participate in the strategy discussion 2–3 levels above their normal level of discourse. It is also an excellent training ground for those involved and it gives the senior executive direct access to the middle of the organization while observing the performance of these high potential line managers.\n\nFor many middle managers, participating effectively in the strategy development process is as much a question of training as it is doing. Building understanding and skills on topics such as the vocabulary and toolset, marketplace dynamics and the associated ambiguity, strategy story telling and their own individual strategic leadership strengths and weaknesses are all aspects of a process that can ignite a sense of understanding and commitment across the middle of the organization in a way that leverages the human fabric.\n\nA key insight that drives this outcome is the recognition that most middle managers regardless of cultural background want to commit to something and belong to something that is more than who they are as individuals. It is the leader’s job to give managers the opportunities in which they can make such commitments. In all instances, providing the settings for these individuals includes asking them to be story tellers of the organizational strategy to those around them. Doing this requires these middle managers to understand and embrace both the analytical and human dimensions of the strategy making. It also creates a much smarter and more prepared middle manager that has publicly committed to the strategy and is in a much stronger position to make local decisions as the strategy evolves.\n\nLocalize the strategy story at the lower levels of the organization and engage these levels with the question, “What does this mean for me and my team?”\n\nWhile front line supervisors and their teams in most instances are the largest portion of the population, the strategy making work to be done with this group is relatively simple. Their needs center largely on context, community and clarity. Engaging this group in a discussion of the basic business model and the organizational strategy provides critical context and gives meaning to their work. Their participation in shaping the local strategy builds understanding and ownership and a sense of partnership with the larger organization.\n\nStrategy making with this group begins with the organization’s strategy story. Using middle managers in this role allows these individuals to raise their own strategic leadership bar. And it is through these middle managers that the organizational story becomes more accessible in those settings and situations that they know much more intimately than senior managers.\n\nUltimately, the strategy only comes alive and communities are built when it is used to set the broad context and is followed by a much more detailed local discussion addressing the question, “What does this mean for me and my team?” The combination of the analytical and human dimensions applied to this group provides a platform of understanding among the rank and file for what the strategy is, what it means to them and why it needs to continue to evolve over time. This in turn increases the willingness of this critically important but difficult to reach population to recognize the inevitable changes in strategy as markers of leadership success rather than leadership failure and in the process it builds and strengthens organizational agility.\n\nIn every organization, there is a line that can be drawn. Above the line, generally at the more senior levels of the organization, people use the word “we” to imply collective responsibility for success and failure. People in this group say things like, “We did this well.” “We should have done this better.” “We need to discuss this more.” “We should have planned this out more carefully.” Below the line, generally at lower levels of the organization, people use the word “they” to imply that things are being done to them by others and frequently these things are not good. People in this group say things like, “They messed up.” “They should have done that better.” “They should have planned this more carefully.”\n\nEffective strategy processes move the “we/they” line down in the organization so that more people use the word “we” and take ownership for making things happen and making things better. Good strategic leadership practices, with the right balance of the analytic dimension and the human dimension and the discipline and commitment to see the process through during strategy formulation and implementation can be a strong driver to take the “we/they” line much deeper into the organization. A deep “we” line produces winning strategies because those in the “we” are much more willing and able to meet the demands of perpetual change.\n\nBuilding prepared minds on a large scale begins and ends with the senior person focusing on being the architect of the strategy process as much as the product. The focus is on working the middle ground between the analytical and the human dimensions, not giving up on the clarity that comes from the analytical rigor nor the broad-based commitment and organizational agility that comes from addressing the human dimension. Ultimately a deep “we” line is a signal that employees are developing, evolving, modulating, fine-tuning and executing a strategy concurrently.\n\nDefinition of Leadership \n\nThe Role of Strategic Leadership in Organization\n\nThere are various strategic leadership styles. With strategic leadership being such a broad topic Rowe differentiates between strategic, visionary and managerial leaders. (Rowe, 2001). Strategic leadership presumes a shared vision of what an organization is to be, so that the day-to-day decision making or emergent strategy process is consistent with this vision. Managerial leaders influence only the actions and decisions of those with whom they work. They are involved in situations and contexts characteristic of day-to-day activities and are concerned with and more comfortable in functional areas of responsibilities. In contrast visionary leadership is future oriented and concerned with risk taking and visionary leaders are not dependent on their organizations for their sense of who they are. Visionary leaders work from high risk positions, and seek out risky ventures, especially when the rewards are high (Rowe, 2001). \nStrategic Leadership in Education System\n\nStrategic leadership is defined by Barron, 1995 as practicing existing abilities and skills and influencing others to train in new formats for new leadership models. Specifically, to obtain successful educational management within the organizational, leaders should think strategically about where changes are needed and why. For instance, new leaders should be in possession of three fundamental skills: problem-solving, decision-making and creative/critical thinking. Also, educators, administrators, and other practitioners should be trained in educational management and continually activate this training in new leadership roles. As a result, the outcome of the educational environment will be influenced by the total quality leadership. Therefore, in Barron’s 1995 definition of strategic leadership, he concludes that “Strategic leadership is demonstrated by individuals in all areas of the educational environment who possess skills to create and communicate vision and effect change through interactive leadership.”\n\nStrategic Leadership in Non-Profit Sector\n\nVery little research in the field of strategic leadership has considered the sector in which leadership occurs. As a result, most of the theory development in strategic leadership has assumed that it occurs in the for profit sector. There have been several theoretical articles published on the role and influence of nonprofit executives generally. In Phipps & Burbach (2010) study they determined the role of a public executive is different from the role of a business executive. The difference between public and private executive roles included different informational, interpersonal, and decisional roles. According to Phipps & Burbach (2010) a study by Taliento & Silverman in 2005 shows the difference between the role of a corporate CEO and the nonprofit CEO. Their conclusions were based on interviews with crossover leaders who had led both for profit and nonprofit organizations. The study identified five areas in which nonprofit strategic leaders adapt the practices of for profit strategic leaders:\n• Smaller scope of authority\n• A wider range of stakeholders who expect consensus\n• The need for innovative metrics to monitor performance\n• The requirement that nonprofit CEO’s pay more attention to communications\n• The challenge of building an effective organization with limited resources and training.\n\nLeadership remains one of the most relevant aspects of the organizational context. However, defining leadership is challenging. “The difficulty of arriving at a simple, cut-and-dried definition of strategic leadership is underscored in the literature on the subject.” (Beatty and Quinn, 2010, p. 3). The definition of leadership varies from situation to situation. Strategic leadership filters the applicable information, creating and environment where learning can take place. Strategic leadership is a combined responsibility of the leader, the follower and the organization. Leadership presents challenges that call forth the best in people, and bring them together around a shared sense of purpose. With intentionality, alignment, and a higher purpose; the work between the leader and the followers create a synergy. Despite what style of leadership, the various styles can support one another to achieve the goals of the organization. Strategic leadership can only be achieved when the leader is strategic in their approach to the matters of the organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "55608037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55608037", "title": "Synod of Bishops for the Pan-Amazon region", "text": "Synod of Bishops for the Pan-Amazon region\n\nThe Synod of Bishops for the Pan-Amazon region is scheduled to meet in Rome in October 2019. Pope Francis announced on 15 October 2017 that it would work \"to identify new paths for the evangelization of God's people in that region\", specifically the indigenous peoples who are experiencing the destruction and exploitation of their natural environment and live \"often forgotten and without the prospect of a serene future\".\n\nThe obstacles to evangelization include the difficult terrain that makes native populations hard to reach, the great variety of languages spoken, and the resistance of landowners and business interests. The Amazon, according to one Vatican report, covers six million sq.km. with a population of 2.8 million organized into 400 tribes that \"speak some 240 languages belonging to 49 linguistic families\". The Synod defines the region to include all or part of Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Peru, Venezuela, and Surinam, all countries where most of the population is Catholic.\n\nPope John Paul II called similar synods for the Netherlands in 1980 and for Lebanon in 1995.\n\nAs early as 1912, in the encyclical \"Lacrimabili statu\", Pope Pius X denounced the owners of the rubber plantations in Peru for mistreating the native population and condemned Capuchin missionaries for failing to protect them.\n\nVisiting Brazil in July 2013, Pope Francis said: \"The Church's presence in the Amazon Basin is not that of someone with bags packed and ready to leave after having exploited everything possible. The Church has been present in the Amazon Basin from the beginning, in her missionaries, religious congregations, priests, laity and bishops, and she is still present and critical to the area's future.\" Pope Francis' encyclical, \"Laudato si\" (2015), focused on the need to defend of the poor and their natural environment.\n\nSince March 2015, the Pan-Amazon Ecclesial Network (REPAM) has coordinated the work of the Catholic Church in the Amazon region, marshaling the work of priests and missionaries, national representatives of Caritas and lay advocates to protect the both indigenous peoples of the Amazon and the natural resources of the region from exploitation. Archbishop Salvador Pineiro García-Calderón of Ayacucho, President of the Peruvian Bishops' Conference, reported that Pope Francis proposed a synod devoted to the Amazon region in a meeting with the bishops of Peru in May 2017. He mentioned it to the bishops of Ecuador in September 2017.\n\nFrancis visited Peru in January 2018 and was met by 4,000 members of the indigenous communities from the Amazon rainforest. He said that the people of the Amazon were threatened now more than ever, and questioned the conservationist policies that affect the Peruvian rainforest. In Puerto Maldonado, he asked for the indigenous communities to be recognized as partners instead of minorities. He said that \"all the efforts we make in order to regain the life of the peoples of the Amazon will always be too few\". He called on the Peruvian people to put an end to practices that degrade women and criticized the sterilization of indigenous women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42713391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42713391", "title": "Techialoyan Codex of Cuajimalpa", "text": "Techialoyan Codex of Cuajimalpa\n\nThe Techialoyan Codex of Cuajimalpa was created around 1685–1703, in order to document the history of indigenous communities to make legal claims to land in the area of Cuajimalpa, today one of the 16 boroughs of Mexico City.\n\nThe codex, written in Nahuatl, describes a solemn meeting of authorities to confirm the extension and political organization of the area. It remained a valid legal document until 1865, when then Emperor Maximilian I had it translated into Spanish.\n\nToday the original document is part of the Mexican Federal Archives. In 1997, the document was named as part of the “Memory of the World” by UNESCO.\n\nIt is one of fifty examples of \"Techialoyan\" codexes that exist. \"Many of these documents are written with ink of European origin, in the Náhuatl language, using the Latin alphabet in capital letters and rough script, and often on amate (bark) paper.\" These codexes established indigenous land claims by documenting the founding and history of a town.\n"}
{"id": "14333666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14333666", "title": "The Erased", "text": "The Erased\n\nThe Erased () is the name used in the media for a group of people in Slovenia that remained without a legal status after the declaration of the country's independence in 1991.\n\nThe “erased” were mainly people from other former Yugoslav republics, who had been living in Slovenia. They are mostly of non-Slovene or mixed ethnicity, and they include a significant number of members of Romani communities.\n\nSome of those affected by the “erasure” included former Yugoslav People's Army officers who did not apply for or were refused Slovenian citizenship, often on the grounds that they participated in the war against Slovenia or were otherwise deemed disloyal to Slovenia.\n\nSome of the “erased” were born in Slovenia but, on the basis of the republican citizenship and birthplace of their parents, had remained SFRY citizens of other Yugoslav republics. Others had moved to Slovenia from other parts of Yugoslavia before the country’s dissolution, and remained there after 1991.\n\nIn 1991, immediately after the declaration of independence by Slovenia, the approximately 200,000 residents of Slovenia who had citizenship of other republics of former Yugoslavia were granted the possibility to obtain, through an application, the citizenship of the new independent state. For those who would have chosen not to avail themselves of this possibility, the law required to register as \"foreign\" (a term denoting legal permanent residents without citizenship). Approximately 170,000 individuals presented the application, obtaining citizenship before the national elections in 1992. Some thousands chose the second option.\n\nThe majority of those who, contrary to legal provisions, did not register themselves as \"foreigners\" were removed from the registry of Permanent Residence in February 1992, losing all social, civil, and political rights. This action was of purely administrative nature (and thus excluded any possibility of appeal) and struck, according to unofficial estimates, over 18,000 people, including some who had actually left the country, while others were simply unaware of the existence of the law that required them to confirm their status through a new application.\n\nIn 1999 the Constitutional Court declared the act of \"erasing\" illegal and unconstitutional, and annulled its legal consequences. In the same year the Slovenian Parliament promulgated a law that offered the \"erased\" the opportunity to regain residence, but only to those who lived permanently in Slovenian territory. The Constitutional Court abrogated this law as another attempt in the same direction.\n\nIn 2003 the Court declared unconstitutional the 1992 Law that required residents with Slovenian citizenship of other Yugoslav republics to explicitly ask to obtain the status of \"alien\", and ordered the return of the status of residents at all \"erased\" with retroactive function (regardless of whether they actually did not live in Slovenia after 1992). Many lawyers (among others some former members of the Constitutional Court and several authors of the Constitution) harshly criticized this decision, since it annulled a legal provision included in the country's constitutional laws and thus, according to them, beyond the Court's jurisdiction.\n\nThe decision was followed by a harsh and lasting controversy, in which the LDS-led government gradually accepted the decisions taken by the Constitutional Court, while the opposition (SDS, N.Si, SLS and SNS) continued to criticize it. In February 2004, the parliamentary majority passed a law in accordance with the decision of the Court (which provided for the retroactivity only for those who were already in possession of residence); two months later, however, this law (called \"Technical Law on the erased\") was annulled by a referendum (supported by the centre-right opposition). This referendum was strongly contested by some institutions of the European Union.\n\nAs of 2007 the number of the \"erased\" was imprecise, with the group fragmented into different legal categories: some have regained residency and citizenship, some only residence, some were expelled, many of them are living in Slovenia illegally. According to some estimates there are still 6,000 people without legal status, while many of those who managed to get the right to permanent residency had to pay heavily for the consequences of years of irregularities.\n\nThe issue was brought before the European Commission, but said he does not have jurisdiction. Some of the deleted made a collective appeal to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, claiming that \"The cancellation is a European problem, because it violates fundamental human rights provided by the EU Convention.\" In 2012 the Grand Chamber of the ECHR decided the case (Kurić and Others v. Slovenia) in favour of the applicants (several of the \"erased\").\n\nIn 2005, and again in 2007, the SDS-led government proposed the regulation of the status of the \"erased\" by a Constitutional law that would treat each case individually. On both occasions, this compromise was rejected by the centre-left opposition.\n\nAn article from 2013 published by B92 stated that over 26,000 people had their residence rights taken away in February 1992, ending up in a situation \"worse than refugees\", since they had no possibilities for work and social protection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3238993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3238993", "title": "Thorgeir Ljosvetningagodi", "text": "Thorgeir Ljosvetningagodi\n\nThorgeir Ljosvetningagodi Thorkelsson () (born ca. 940) was a lawspeaker in Iceland's Althing from 985 to 1001.\n\nIn the year 999 or 1000, Iceland's legislative assembly was debating which religion they should practice: Norse paganism or Christianity. Thorgeir, himself a pagan priest and chieftain (a \"gothi\"), decided in favour of Christianity after a day and a night of silent meditation under a fur blanket, thus averting potentially disastrous civil conflict. Under the compromise, pagans could still practice their religion in private and several of the old customs were retained. After his decision, Thorgeir himself converted to Christianity. Upon returning to his farm Ljósavatn, he is said to have thrown the idols of his gods into a nearby waterfall, for which it is now known in Icelandic as \"Godafoss\", the \"waterfall of the gods\". Thorgeir's story is preserved in Ari Thorgilsson's \"Íslendingabók\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27360234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27360234", "title": "Transgender rights in Brazil", "text": "Transgender rights in Brazil\n\nChanging legal gender assignment in Brazil is legal according to the Superior Court of Justice of Brazil, as stated in a decision rendered on October 17, 2009.\n\nUnanimously, the 3rd Class of the Superior Court of Justice approved allowing the option of name and gender change on the birth certificate of a transgender person who has undergone gender reassignment surgery.\n\nThe understanding of the ministers was that it made no sense to allow people to have such surgery performed in the free federal health system, Sistema Único de Saúde, and not allow them to change their name and gender in the civil registry.\n\nThe ministers followed the vote of the rapporteur, Nancy Andrighi. \"If Brazil consents to the possibility of surgery, it should also provide the means for the individual to have a decent life in society,\" she said. In the opinion of the rapporteur, preventing the record change for a trans person who has gone through sex reassignment surgery could constitute a new form of social prejudice, and cause more psychological instability.\n\n\"The issue is delicate. At the beginning of compulsory civil registry, distinction between the two sexes was determined according to the genitalia. Today there are other influential factors, and that identification can no longer be limited to the apparent sex. There is a set of social, psychological problems that must be considered. Vetoing this exchange would be putting the person in an untenable position, subject to anxieties, uncertainty, and more conflict,\" she said.\n\nAccording to Minister João Otávio Noronha of the Superior Court of Justice, transgender people should have their social integration ensured with respect to their dignity, autonomy, intimacy and privacy, which must therefore incorporate their civil registry.\n\nIn 2008, Brazil's public health system started providing free sex reassignment surgery in compliance with a court order. Federal prosecutors had argued that sex reassignment surgery was covered under a constitutional clause guaranteeing medical care as a basic right.\n\nThe Regional Federal Court agreed, saying in its ruling that \"from the biomedical perspective, transsexuality can be described as a sexual identity disturbance where individuals need to change their sexual designation or face serious consequences in their lives, including intense suffering, mutilation and suicide.\"\n\nPatients must be at least 18 years old and diagnosed as transgender with no other personality disorders, and must undergo psychological evaluation with a multidisciplinary team for at least two years, begins with 16 years old. The national average is of 100 surgeries per year, according to the Ministry of Health of Brazil.\n\n"}
{"id": "39270200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39270200", "title": "Women In Prison Advocacy Network", "text": "Women In Prison Advocacy Network\n\nThe Women in Prison Advocacy Network (abbreviated as WIPAN) is an incorporated not-for-profit charity based in Sydney, Australia. WIPAN is a volunteer-based organisation and focuses on advocacy around issues affecting female prisoners, providing support to women exiting prison through its mentoring program, with the aim to reduce rates of female incarceration and recidivism.\nThe organisation's work involves undertaking research and systemic advocacy around the needs of women prisoners and ex-prisoners at an institutional level, whilst also assisting ex-prisoners at an individual level through its mentoring program, the only such non-government service in New South Wales (NSW).\n\nWIPAN was founded in 2008 by Kat Armstrong, Carol Berry, Marissa Sandler and Nicki Petrou, and is managed by a volunteer Management Committee, (The Board). WIPAN's co-founder Kat Armstrong, was the organisation’s volunteer Director/CEO from early 2008 to Jan 2016. The organisation expanded in 2014, thanks to a grant from the Department of Family and Community Services (NSW) and from early 2016, a new CEO, Mentoring Coordinator and Housing and Family Coordinator were all able to be employed. WIPAN has also received small, one off charity grants and funding grants of the NSW Government, such as the three years of one-off funding grants from, the NSW Government, Office of Women, used to establish WIPAN’s mentoring service in 2009. Women in Prison maintains 84% of women sent to prison in 2917 had committed non violent offenses. \n\nIn consultation with other community groups, as well as partner peak body organisations such as the New South Wales Council of Social Services (NCOSS), WIPAN undertakes a broad range of research and advocacy activities including the production of resources guides, policy and research papers on issues such as the housing and support needs of women leaving prison and prisoner health. The organisation makes submissions to government on policy matters affecting female prisoners and their families such as sentencing, Apprehended Violence Orders (AVO) and prison privatisation.\n\nIn 2011, with funding from the Myer Foundation and working with the Public Interest Advocacy Centre (PIAC), WIPAN produced a self-help guide for women prisoners in NSW. The guide was designed to be distributed to female prisoners before release, and assist them to meet their own financial, housing, health, and legal needs, once in the community.\n\nIn 2012, with funding from the NSW Office for Women, WIPAN produced \"The Long Road to Freedom: A guide for women to escape the cycle of domestic violence and jail.\", a guide designed to assist women experiencing domestic violence who are also affected by the criminal justice system.\n\nWIPAN attends and presents at conferences nationally on issues affecting female prisoners; participating in the 2009 and 2011 Sisters Inside Conferences on Prisons; and in 2012 at the Complex Needs Conference hosted by the University of Sydney.\n\nWIPAN operates a volunteer-based mentoring program for women exiting the NSW criminal justice system which aims to reduce rates of recidivism amongst female inmates by providing women leaving prison with a meaningful support network, and to assist ex-prisoners to build connections with the broader community. The role of the mentor in the program is to assist the mentee to access necessary services, and to build a relationship of mutual trust and respect through regular face-to-face meetings, and the provision of social and emotional support. The program was developed and accredited by NSW TAFE up until 2015, and was responsible for training 50 community volunteers to act as mentors in an initial 18-month pilot program from May 2010 until November 2011.\n\nIn 2012, after two years of the program 82 per cent of the programs 85 participants had not re-offended, despite 92 percent of participants having served between five and seven prior custodial sentences before entering the program.\n\nIn 2011, The Law and Justice Foundation of NSW's Justice Award was awarded to WIPAN Director Kat Armstrong. In 2012, The Australian Centre For Leadership For Women's Gold Sustaining Women’s Empowerment in Communities and Organisations (SWECO) Award was given to Kat Armstrong for her work in founding WIPAN.\n\nIn 2012 WIPAN was awarded by the Australian Government and Australian Institute of Criminology (AIC) the 2012 Australian Crime & Violence Prevention Award for outstanding work in crime prevention, and for the success of its women’s mentoring program.\n\n"}
{"id": "1952158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1952158", "title": "Yox!", "text": "Yox!\n\nYOX! (full name:“YOX” MOVEMENT- AZERBAIJAN) is a nonviolent pro-democracy youth movement in Azerbaijan, which models itself after other colour revolutional youth groups Otpor!, Kmara, Pora (black), Zubr, and KelKel. It means No! in Azeri. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "38211533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38211533", "title": "Yuri Schmidt", "text": "Yuri Schmidt\n\nYuri Markovich Schmidt (; 10 May 1937 – 12 January 2013) was a Russian human rights lawyer known for defending dissidents since the 1970s.\n\nSchmidt was born in Leningrad. He was a member of the Mikhail Khodorkovsky defense team from 2004, and headed the legal team for several years before his death in 2013, following a long battle with cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "3609533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3609533", "title": "Évolué", "text": "Évolué\n\nÉvolué (, \"evolved\" or \"developed\") is a French label used during the colonial era to refer to a native African or Asian who had \"evolved\" by becoming Europeanised through education or assimilation and had accepted European values and patterns of behavior. It is most commonly used to refer to individuals within the Belgian and French colonial empires. \"Évolués\" spoke French, followed European (rather than customary) laws, usually held white-collar jobs (although rarely higher than clerks), and lived primarily in urban areas of the colony.\n\nThe term was also used to describe the growing native middle class in the Belgian Congo (the modern-day Democratic Republic of the Congo) between the latter part of World War II and the independence of the colony in 1960. Most \"évolué\"s emerged from the Congolese who filled skilled positions (such as clerks and nurses) made available by the economic boom in the country following the war. Colonial administrators defined an \"évolué\" as \"a man having broken social ties with his group, [and] having entered another system of motivations, another system of values.\" While there were no universal criteria for determining \"évolué\" status, it was generally accepted that one would have \"a good knowledge of French, adhere to Christianity, and have some form of post-primary education.\" Early on in their history, most \"évolué\"s sought to use their unique status to earn special privileges in the Congo. They asked that the colonial administration recognize their role as mediators between the Belgians and the native \"savages.\" \nSince opportunities for upward mobility through the colonial structure were limited, the \"évolué\" class institutionally manifested itself through clubs and associations. Through these groups they could enjoy trivial privileges that made them feel distinct from the Congolese \"masses\". In 1947, there were 110 social clubs consisting of 5,609 members throughout the Congo's cities. From 1952 to 1956, the number of clubs rose from 131 to 317, with their membership increasing from 7,661 to 15,345. Most of these associations were rather small, but some eventually grew in size to encompass entire regions and ethnic groups, such as the \"Alliance des Bakongo\".\n\nBy 1958, colonial officials estimated that there were 175,000 people who could be classed as \"évolués\" in the colony. In the final years leading up to independence, \"évolués\" played a major role in colonial propaganda as they were felt to exemplify the success of the Belgian civilizing mission begun under King Leopold II. In particular, it was felt that after independence, the assimilation of European values by the \"évolués\" meant that Belgian civilian inhabitants of the Congo could continue to live in the Congo as part of a culturally European multiracial state.\n\nIn 1954, the colonial government opened Lovanium University in Léopoldville in order to provide university education to Congolese \"évolués\".\n\nMany of the leaders of the African nationalist parties in the Belgian Congo were members of the \"évolué\" class. In the 1970s, the Congolese dictator Mobutu Sese Seko launched a policy known as \"Authenticité\" in which he called for Congolese people to renounce all the cultural legacies of the colonial period by dressing and speaking in an \"authentic\" Congolese manner.\n\nIn the French colonial empire, \"évolués\" were seen as individuals who were the desired end product of France's assimilation policy. \"Évolués\" were treated as an élite and a privileged group by the colonial administrators.\n\n\n"}
