{"id": "3399831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3399831", "title": "Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad", "text": "Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad\n\nAkhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) (translation: \"All Indian Student Council\") is a right-wing all India student organisation affiliated to the Hindu nationalist Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). It participates in joint activities with BJP's official youth wing, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. It is said to be India's largest student organisation with more than three million members.\n\nThe ABVP, founded in 1948 with the initiative of the RSS activist Balraj Madhok, was formally registered on 9 July 1949. Its primary purpose was reportedly to counter communist influences on university campuses. Professor Yeshwantrao Kelkar, a lecturer in Bombay, became its main organizer in 1958. According to the ABVP website, he built the organisation into what it is now and is considered to be 'the real architect of the ABVP'.\n\nVarious branches of the ABVP have been involved in Hindu-Muslim communal riots since 1961. However, in the 1970s, the ABVP also increasingly took on issues concerning the lower middle classes like corruption and government inertia that were also being taken on by communist student groups. The ABVP played a leading role in the agitational politics of the 1970s during the JP movement. This led to collaboration among student activists in Gujarat and Bihar. The ABVP gained significantly from such efforts after the Emergency and experienced a growth in membership.\n\nBy 1974, the ABVP had 160,000 members across 790 campuses and had gained control over several prominent universities, including University of Delhi via student elections. By 1983, the organisation had 250,000 members and 1,100 branches. ABVP grew during the 1990s, receiving more support as a result of the Babri Masjid demolition and the economic liberalisation pursued by the P. V. Narasimharao government. It continued to grow after the United Progressive Alliance came to power in 2003, trebling in membership to 3.175 million members as of 2016. It claims to be India's largest student organisation.\n\nThe ABVP spokesmen insist that the ABVP is not affiliated to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). They describe it the \"student wing\" of the RSS. However, both the BJP and the ABVP are members of the Sangh Parivar, the RSS's \"family of (affiliated) organisations\". The BJP is said to gain handsomely from the ABVP's support base and several politicians of the BJP, including the Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, had their ideological foundation in the ABVP.\nSeveral scholars make no distinction between the RSS and the BJP, and regard the ABVP as a student wing of both of them or either of them.\n\nIn 2017, the ABVP faced a string of losses in student body elections. They included not only Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University and Delhi University, but also the Allahabad University and Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth in Uttar Pradesh, the Gujarat University and the Gauhati University. The loss in the Kashi Vidyapeeth was considered especially significant since it is in Varanasi, the prime minister Narendra Modi's home constituency. This is said to have caused alarm in the BJP, which set up a committee to study the issues causing the ABVP's decline.\n\nThe ABVP's manifesto includes agendas such as educational and university reforms. It competes in student-body elections in colleges and universities. Students for Development (SFD) is an initiative by the ABVP to promote \"right perspective towards the need of holistic and sustainable development\" in students. The official ABVP magazine is \"Rashtriya Chhatrashakti\", which is published monthly in Hindi in New Delhi.\n\nABVP has been in the news due to violent incidents on university and college campuses:\n\n"}
{"id": "2773226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2773226", "title": "Anthony Cekada", "text": "Anthony Cekada\n\nAnthony J. Cekada is a Sedevacantist Catholic priest and author. Once a month during the academic year Cekada travels to Brooksville, Florida where he teaches Canon Law, Liturgy, and Scripture at Most Holy Trinity Seminary.\n\nBorn on July 18, 1951, in San Diego, California, the son of the late Frank J. and Eleanor (Nardi) Cekada, Cekada studied at St. Francis Roman Catholic Seminary College in Milwaukee, graduating with a bachelor's degree in Theology in 1973; he studied organ and musical composition at the Wisconsin Conservatory of Music. In 1975, after two years as a Cistercian monk, he entered St. Pius X Seminary in Écône, Switzerland, joined the Society of St. Pius X, completed his studies, and was ordained to the SSPX priesthood by Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre in 1977.\n\nFollowing his sacerdotal ordination, Cekada taught seminarians at St. Joseph's House of Studies, Armada, Michigan, and St. Thomas Aquinas Seminary, Ridgefield, Connecticut.\n\nFrom 1979 to 1989 he resided in Oyster Bay Cove, New York, where he did pastoral and administrative work, and edited the traditionalist publication \"The Roman Catholic\". In 1983 Cekada, along with eight other priests, broke with the Society of St. Pius X (SSPX) over various theological issues and several years later formed the Society of St. Pius V (SSPV), headed by then Fr. Clarence Kelly. In 1989 Cekada left the SSPV and he moved to West Chester, where he assists with pastoral work at St. Gertrude the Great Traditional Roman Catholic Church. Cekada is a well-known and convinced sedevacantist, believing the popes of the Second Vatican Council to have been illegitimate pontiffs.\n\nHe has since devoted a considerable amount of time to research and writing. TAN Books published two of his works criticizing the post-Vatican II liturgical reform. One was a commentary and new translation for \"The Ottaviani Intervention\", a key document in the history of the traditional movement. The other, \"The Problems with the Prayers of the Modern Mass\", discusses the systematic omission of certain doctrines (hell, the soul, miracles, the true Church, etc.) from the \"1969 Missal of Paul VI\"; it has sold nearly 15,000 copies at last count, and has been published in French, Italian, German and Dutch.\n\nCekada has written two introductory booklets for newcomers to the Traditional Mass which were published by St. Gertrude the Great Church: \"Welcome to the Traditional Latin Mass\" and \"Traditionalists, Infallibility and the Pope\".\n\nCekada's bibliography includes apologetic, analytical and controversial articles on a great variety of topics: the errors of Vatican II and the post-Conciliar popes, canon law, seminary formation, the Feeney case, the Mass of Paul VI, the pre-Vatican II liturgical changes, the validity of post Vatican II sacramental rites, questions in moral and pastoral theology, and the case for sedevacantism, the Schiavo case, the Society of St. Pius X, intramural traditionalist disputes, and rubrical matters.\n\nIn 2010 Cekada completed \"Work of Human Hands: A Theological Critique of the Mass of Paul VI,\" a 468-page work published by Philothea Press. It is a systematic study of the post-Vatican II rite of Mass which maintains that the new rite \"a) destroys Catholic doctrine in the minds of the faithful, and in particular, Catholic doctrine concerning the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass, the priesthood, and the Real Presence; and b) permits or prescribes grave irreverence.\"\n"}
{"id": "17535050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17535050", "title": "Asanbibi", "text": "Asanbibi\n\nAsanbibi () is a folk deity, mostly worshipped in southern Bengal, in conjunction with her six sisters, namely, Olabibi (the Goddess of Cholera), Ajgaibibi, Chandbibi, Bahadabibi, Jhetunebibi and Jholabibi. It is believed by some modern scholars that these seven deities, together known as the \"Satbibi\"s (seven ladies) are transmogrifications of the \"Saptamatrikas\" (Brahmi, Maheshvari, Vaisnavi, Varahi, Indrani and others), but almost no similarity exists between the \"Saptamatrikas\" and the \"Satbibi\"s. The collective worship of seven goddesses is even evidenced in prehistoric India by a terracotta seal found at Mohenjodaro, a major urban centre of the Indus Valley Civilisation located in Sindh, which depicts the image of seven women standing together.\n"}
{"id": "204592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204592", "title": "Atropa", "text": "Atropa\n\nAtropa is a genus of flowering plants in the nightshade family, Solanaceae : tall, calcicole, herbaceous perennials (rhizomatous hemicryptophytes), bearing large leaves and glossy berries particularly dangerous to children, due to their combination of an attractive, cherry-like appearance with a high toxicity. Atropa species favour temperate climates and alkaline soils, often growing in light shade in woodland environments associated with limestone hills and mountains. Their seeds can remain viable in the soil for long periods, germinating when the soil of sites in which plants once grew (but from which plants have long been absent) is disturbed by human activity or by natural causes, e.g. the windthrow of trees (a property shared by the seeds of other Solanaceae in tribe Hyoscyameae e.g. those of Hyoscyamus spp., the henbanes). The best-known member of the genus Atropa is Deadly Nightshade (\"A. belladonna\") - the poisonous plant \"par excellence\" in the minds of many. The pharmacologically active ingredients of Atropa species include atropine, scopolamine, and hyoscyamine, all tropane alkaloids having anticholinergic, deliriant, antispasmodic and mydriatic properties. The genus is named for Άτροπος (\"Atropos\") - lit. 'she who may not be turned (aside)' - one of the Three Fates and cutter of the thread of life / bringer of death - in reference to the extreme toxicity of \"A.belladonna\" and its fellow species - of which three others are currently accepted.\n\nIn some older classifications, the mandrake (\"Mandragora officinarum\") has been placed in the genus \"Atropa\", under the binomial \"Atropa mandragora\".\n\n\nThe genus \"Atropa\" is currently under review, so changes in nomenclature are likely, once said review is complete. It will be seen from the above that there is an overlap in the respective distributions of \"A. acuminata\", \"A. komarovii\" and \"A. pallidiflora\" in the lush Hyrcanian forests of Northern Iran, and it is possible that some or all of these species may yet be subsumed in the concept \"Atropa belladonna\". \"A. belladonna\" itself (including its variety \"caucasica\") is also present in the Hyrcanian forests and vol. 100 of Flora Iranica includes a useful key with which to distinguish the four species occurring in northern Iran. Data on \"A. pallidiflora\" and \"A. acuminata\" Royle ex Miers are neither abundant nor readily accessible on the Internet at present. The reported presence of an Atropa species in Mongolia is intriguing, given that country's relative remoteness from Kashmir and its (Kashmir's) well-attested population of \"Atropa acuminata\" Royle ex Lindl. The unequivocal presence of Atropa in the Eastern Himalaya would go at least some way to bridging the gap between Kashmiri and Mongolian populations of this genus. Some light might be cast upon this problem by the gaining of a better knowledge of the rare and poorly-known monotypic genus \"Pauia\", found in Arunachal Pradesh and adjoining areas of Assam. The single species \"Pauia belladonna\" Deb and Dutta is described as bearing a marked similarity to \"Atropa acuminata\" Royle ex Lindl. and may yet prove to be referable to the genus Atropa, after all.\n"}
{"id": "25688985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25688985", "title": "Bishop of Mayo", "text": "Bishop of Mayo\n\nThe Bishop of Mayo was an episcopal title which took its name after Mayo in Ireland. After the Reformation, the title was briefly used by the Church of Ireland until 1559 and by the Roman Catholic Church until 1631. With each denomination, the bishopric was united to the archbishopric of Tuam.\n\nThe diocese of Mayo was not established at the Synod of Rathbreasail in 1111, but was recognised at the Synod of Kells in 1152. A bishop of Mayo, probably Gille Ísa Ua Maílín, took the oath of fealty to King Henry II of England in 1172.\n\nIn 1202, the papal legate, Cardinal John, had the see of Mayo united to the archbishopric of Tuam. In 1216, Pope Innocent III heard the case in Rome, and gave sentence in favour of Tuam. His sentence was maintained by papal legate James in 1221, and was finally confirmed by Pope Gregory IX on 3 July 1240. However, in the first half of the fifteenth century, Mayo appears to have gained independence with further bishops of Mayo being appointed, although their position is unclear and may have been assistant or suffragan bishops.\n\nFollowing the Reformation, there were parallel successions in the Church of Ireland and the Roman Catholic Church. Circa 1559, the see was united to the archbishopric of Tuam in the Church of Ireland. The Roman Catholic see continued until the early seventeenth century, when, after a long vacancy, it was united to the archdiocese of Tuam in 1631.\n"}
{"id": "13175512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13175512", "title": "Buddhism in the Maldives", "text": "Buddhism in the Maldives\n\nBuddhism in the Maldives was the predominant religion at least until the 12th century CE. It is not clear how Buddhism was introduced into the islands.\n\nWestern interest in the archaeological remains of early cultures on the Maldives began with the work of H. C. P. Bell, a British commissioner of the Ceylon Civil Service. Bell was shipwrecked on the islands in 1879, and returned several times to investigate ancient Buddhist ruins. He studied the ancient mounds, called \"havitta\" or \"ustubu\" (these names are derived from chaitiya or stupa) () by the Maldivians, which are found on many of the atolls.\n\nAlthough Bell claimed that the ancient Maldivians followed Theravada Buddhism in the same manner as the Sinhalese people from neighboring Sri Lanka, Maldivian Buddhist archaeological remains that were preserved in the Malé Museum display in fact Mahayana and Vajrayana iconography.\n\nAccording to a legend of the Maldivian Folklore, a prince named Koimala from India or Sri Lanka entered the Maldives from the North (Ihavandhu) and became the first king from the House of Theemuge. Prior to that the Maldives had been settled by people of Dravidian origin from the nearest coasts, like the group today known as the Giravaaru who claim ancestry from ancient Tamils. It is unlikely that the Giraavaru islanders were the only early settlers in the Maldives. The importance they have been given is because they are mentioned in the legend about the establishment of the capital and kingly rule in Malé. The Giraavaru people were just one of the island communities predating Buddhism and the arrival of a Northern Kingly dynasty and the establishment of centralized political and administrative institutions.\n\nThe ancient Maldivian Kings promoted Buddhism and the first Maldive writings and artistic achievements in the form of highly developed sculpture and architecture are from that period. The conversion to Islam is mentioned in the ancient edicts written in copper plates from the end of the 12th century AD. There is also a locally well-known legend about a foreign saint (Persian or Moroccan according to the versions) who subdued a demon known as Rannamaari.\n\nOver the centuries, the islands have been visited and their development influenced by sailors and traders from countries on the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. Until relatively recent times, Mappila pirates from the Malabar Coast harassed the islands.\n\nIn February 2012, a group of Islamic extremists forced their way into the National Museum in Malé and attacked the museum's collection of pre-Islamic sculptures, destroying or severely damaging nearly the entire collection about thirty Buddhist sculptures dating from the 6th to 12th centuries. Museum staff indicated that as the sculptures were made from very brittle coral or limestone it would be impossible to repair most of them, and only two or three pieces were in a repairable condition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174148", "title": "Conventicle Act 1664", "text": "Conventicle Act 1664\n\nThe Conventicle Act of 1664 was an Act of the Parliament of England (16 Charles II c. 4) that forbade conventicles, defined as religious assemblies of more than five people other than an immediate family, outside the auspices of the Church of England. \n\nThis law was a part of the Clarendon Code, named after Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon, which aimed to discourage nonconformism and to strengthen the position of the Established Church. However the Clarendon Code was not actually the work of Clarendon himself, who favoured a policy of greater tolerance towards dissenters. These prohibitions led many, such as the Covenanters, to vacate their parishes rather than submit to the new Episcopal authorities. Just as the ministers left so too did the congregations, following their old pastors to sermons on the hillside. From small beginnings these field assemblies—or conventicles—were to grow into major problems of public order for the government.\n\nThe operation of the Clarendon Code at least as far as Protestants were concerned was mitigated somewhat by Charles II's Royal Declaration of Indulgence in 1672, which suspended the execution of the Penal Laws and allowed a certain number of non-conformist chapels to be staffed and constructed, with the pastors subject to royal approval.\n\nThe Conventicle Act was repealed in 1689.\n\nAlthough aimed at Nonconformists, when the Conventicle Act was passed, the Jews led by their new rabbi, Jacob Sasportas, took their anxieties to Charles II, who told them, \"laughing and spitting\", not to worry; later the Privy Council put it in writing that Jews could \"promise themselves the effects of the same favour as formerly they have had, so long as they demean themselves peaceably and quietly, with due obedience to His Majesty's laws and without scandal to his government\". Thus the English Jews, by an act of omission, as it were, became full citizens, subject to no more disabilities than those inherent in their own unwillingness, like Catholics and Nonconformists, to belong to the Church of England or, in their particular case, to swear Christian oaths.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "32581021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32581021", "title": "Counter-jihad", "text": "Counter-jihad\n\nCounter-jihad or counterjihad or counter-jihad movement is a political current loosely consisting of authors, bloggers, think tanks, street movements and campaign organisations all linked by a common belief that the Western world is being subjected to takeover by Muslims. Several academic accounts have presented conspiracy theory as a key component of the counter-jihad movement. On a day-to-day level, it seeks to generate outrage at perceived Muslim crimes.\n\nWhile the roots of the movement go back to the 1980s, it did not gain significant momentum until after the September 11 attacks in 2001 and the 7 July 2005 London bombings. As far back as 2006, online commentators such as Fjordman were identified as playing a key role in forwarding the nascent counter-jihad ideology. The movement received considerable attention following the 2011 Norway attacks whose manifesto extensively reproduced the writings of prominent counter-jihad bloggers, and following the emergence of prominent street movements such as the English Defence League (EDL). The movement has been variously described as pro-Israel, anti-Islamic, Islamophobic, inciting hatred against Muslims, or far-right.\n\nThe movement has adherents both in Europe and in North America. The European wing is more focused on the alleged cultural threat to European traditions stemming from immigrant Muslim populations, while the American wing emphasizes an alleged external threat, essentially terrorist in nature.\n\nCounter-jihad is a transatlantic \"radical right\" wing movement that, via \"the sharing of ideas between Europeans and Americans and daily linking between blogs and websites on both sides of the Atlantic\", \"calls for a counterjihad against the supposed Islamisation of Europe\".\nWhile the roots of the movement go back to the 1980s, it did not gain significant momentum until after the September 11 attacks in 2001.\n\nThe authors of \"Right-Wing Populism in Europe: Politics and Discourse\" describe the movement as heavily relying on two key tactics. \"The first is arguing that the most radical Muslims – men like Osama bin Laden – are properly interpreting the Quran, while peaceful moderate Muslims either do not understand their own holy book or are strategically faking their moderation. The second key tactic is to relentlessly attack individuals and organizations that purport to represent moderate Islam...painting them as secret operatives in a grand Muslim scheme to destroy the West.\"\n\nBenjamin Lee describes the \"counter-jihad scene\" as one where \"Europe and the United States are under threat from an aggressive and politicized Islamic world that is attempting to take over Europe through a process of \"Islamification\" with the eventual aim of imposing Sharia law. In this process, the threat is characterized by the perceived removal of Christian or Jewish symbols, the imposition of Islamic traditions, and the creation of no-go areas for non-Muslims. The construction of mosques in particular is seen as continued reinforcement of the separation of the Muslim population from the wider populous. As strong as the threatening practices of Muslims in descriptions of the counter jihad are images of a powerless Europe in decline and sliding into decadence, unable to resist Islamic takeover. The idea that European culture in particular is in a state of decline, while a spiritually vigorous East represented by Islam is in the ascendancy in civil society, is a common sentiment in some circles.\"\n\nTwo central counter-jihad themes have been identified: \n\nOne of the first organizations of the Counter-jihad movement [CJM], the \"910 Group\" was founded in 2006 and announced on \"Gates of Vienna\", “a principal blog of the CJM since 2004.” Its stated purpose was to defend “liberties, human rights, and religious and political freedoms [that] are under assault from extremist groups who believe in Islamist supremacy.” By April 2007, the counter-jihad current became visible as a movement operating in northwestern Europe after a \"counter-jihad summit\", organised by a transatlantic network of anti-Islam bloggers, was held in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\nIn October 2007 a second summit \"Counterjihad Brussels 2007\", was hosted by the Belgian, Flemish-nationalist party Vlaams Belang in the European Parliament building in Brussels, Belgium. This conference has been regarded as a crucial event in the movement's history and featured \"keynote speakers\" Bat Ye'or and David Littman followed by \"country reports\" from \"delegates\" Paul Beliën and Filip Dewinter (Vlaams Belang, Belgium), Stefan Herre (PI blog, Germany), Nidra Poller (Pajamas Media blog, France), Gerard Batten (UK Independence Party, UK), Ted Ekeroth (Swedish Democrats, Sweden), Lars Hedegaard (International Free Press Society, Denmark), Jens Tomas Anfindsen (HonestThinking blog, Norway), Kenneth Sikorski (Tundra Tabloids blog, Finland), Johannes Jansen (Holland), Adriana Bolchini Gaigher, (Lisistrata blog, Italy), Traian Ungureanu (Romania), Elisabeth Sabaditsch-Wolff (Austria), Matyas Zmo (Czech Republic), with further speeches by Arieh Eldad (Moledet, Israel). Patrick Sookhdeo, (Institute for the Study of Islam and Christianity, Barnabas Fund, UK), Dr Marc Cogen (Professor of International Law, Vesalius College, Belgium), Sam Solomon (Islamic Affairs Consultant, Christian Concern), Robert Spencer (Jihad Watch, David Horowitz Freedom Center), Andrew Bostom, and Laurent Artur du Plessis\n\nA March 2012 Counter-jihad conference in Denmark drew 200-300 supporters from throughout Europe. Ten times the number of left-wing protesters staged a counter-demonstration. The 2012 conference in Denmark, was alleged by its organisers, the English Defence League to mark the starting point of a pan-European movement. There have been no CJM conferences since 2013, pointing to a decline in the movement.\n\nBlogs such as \"Gates of Vienna\", \"Jihad Watch\", \"Atlas Shrugs\", \"Politically Incorrect\", \"The Brussels Journal\" are central to the transatlantic Counter-jihad movement (TCJM). Notable figures include: the editors of these blogs, respectively Edward 'Ned' May (pseudonym Baron Bodissey), Robert Spencer; Pamela Geller; Stefan Herre; and Paul Beliën. Notable writers in the Counter-jihad movement are Bat Ye'or, David Horowitz and Fjordman.\n\nThink tanks such as the International Free Press Society and the David Horowitz Freedom Center have had an important role in providing funds and establishing international links. In time, a network of formal organisations has been established, with its main centres in Europe and the United States. A transatlantic umbrella organisation SION was established in 2012.\nThe International Free Press Society lists representatives from many parts of the counter-jihad spectrum on its board of advisors. Eurabia theorist Bat Ye'Or is on the board of advisors, while owner of the blog \"Gates of Vienna\", Edward S. May, serves as outreach co-ordinator on its board of directors.\n\nThe U.S.-based Stop Islamization of America (SIOA) is led by Pamela Geller and Robert Spencer, as a programme under their American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI). According to the AFDI website, the initiative aims, among other activities, to:\n\nSIOA has been accused by the Anti-Defamation League of\npromot[ing] a conspiratorial anti-Muslim agenda under the guise of fighting radical Islam. The group seeks to rouse public fears by consistently vilifying the Islamic faith and asserting the existence of an Islamic conspiracy to destroy \"American\" values.\n\nIn 2010, a group dubbed \"Team B II\", patterned after the anti-communist 1970s Team B, published a report titled \"Shariah: The Threat to America\" which has been cited as influencing the movement's discourse and the public's perception.\n\nWith the election of Donald Trump to the United States presidency in 2017, some have claimed that the American wing has achieved some influence in the US administration.\n\nThe umbrella organization, Stop Islamisation of Europe, was founded by Anders Gravers Pedersen, who also sits on the board of the Stop Islamisation of Nations. There are numerous affiliated \"Stop the islamisation of...\" and \"Defense Leagues\" in several European countries, among them Stop Islamisation of Denmark, Stop Islamisation of Norway, and the English Defence League.\n\nIn the words of Toby Archer, a scholar of political extremism and terrorism, \"Counter-jihad discourse mixes valid concerns about jihad-inspired terrorism with far more complex political issues about immigration to Europe from predominantly Muslim countries. It suggests that there is a threat not just from terrorism carried out by Islamic extremists but from Islam itself. Therefore, by extension, all European Muslims are a threat.\" Arun Kundnani, in a report published by the International Centre for Counter-terrorism, writes that the counter-jihad movement has evolved from earlier European far-right movements through a shift from race to values as identity markers: \"In moving from neo‐Nazism to counter‐jihadism, the underlying structure of the narrative remains the same.\" Continuing on this note, he writes that comparing the counter-jihadist worldview to the older, neo-nazi one, \"Muslims have taken the place of blacks and multiculturalists are the new Jews.\"\n\nAccording to prominent counter-jihadist Edward S. May, writing under the pseudonym Baron Bodissey, the counter-jihadist movement is based on the belief that \"Islam is above all a totalitarian political ideology, sugar-coated with the trappings of a primitive desert religion to help veil its true nature. The publicly stated goal of Islamic theology and political ideology is to impose the rule of Islam over the entire world, and make it part of Dar al-Islam, the 'House of Submission'.\" Cas Mudde argues that various conspiracy theories with roots in Bat Ye'Or's Eurabia are important to the movement. The main theme of these theories is an allegation that European leaders allow a Muslim dominance of Europe, whether by intention or not, through multicultural policies and lax immigration laws. According to Hope not Hate, counter-jihad discourse has replaced the racist discourse of rightwing, populist and nationalist politics in America and Europe \"with the language of cultural and identity wars\".\n\nToby Archer detects a difference between the European and American wings of the movement. The American wing emphasizes an external threat, essentially terrorist in nature. The European wing sees a cultural threat to European traditions stemming from immigrant Muslim populations. While Archer notes that the perceived failure of multi-culturalism is shared across much of the political spectrum, he argues the counter-jihad movement is a particular conservative manifestation of this trend. He acknowledges the movement’s conservative defense of human rights and the rule of law but he believes by rejecting progressive policy it rejects much of what Europe is today.\n\nThe views of the counter-jihad movement have been criticized as a source of support for the anti-Muslim views of individuals inspired to take violent direct action. Anders Behring Breivik, responsible for the 2011 Norway attacks, published a manifesto explaining his views which drew heavily on the work of counter-jihad bloggers such as Fjordman. Daniel Pipes argues that a “close reading of his manifesto suggests” that Breivik wanted to discredit and undermine the movement's dedication to democratic change to further Breivik’s “dreamed-for revolution” as the only alternative. Bruce Bawer argues that the association of criticism of Islam with violence implies that \"to be opposed to jihad is, by definition, not only a bad but a downright dangerous thing.\" Breivik has later identified himself as a fascist and voiced support for neo-Nazis, stating that he had exploited counter-jihad rhetoric in order to protect \"ethno-nationalists\", and instead start a media drive against what he deemed \"anti-nationalist counterjihad\"-supporters.\n\nExecutive director of the Institute of Race Relations, Liz Fekete, has argued that although most of the counter-jihad movement \"stops short of advocating violence to achieve their goals\", the most extreme parts share much of Breivik's discursive frameworks and vocabulary. She counterposits this with more mainstream counter-jihadists, that warn of Islamisation as a result of naïvety or indecisiveness, whom she identifies as a source of legitimacy for the former.\n\nTheologist and philosopher Marius Timmann Mjaaland has described the role given to Christianity in some parts of the counter-jihad movement and has identified some aspects of the movement's ideology that he says links it to fascism-like conspiracy theories: \n\nCounter-jihad has sought to portray Western Muslims as a \"fifth column\", collectively seeking to destabilize Western nations' identity and values for the benefit of an international Islamic movement intent on the establishment of a caliphate in Western countries. Much of the Eurabia literature and Counter Jihad forums describe \"taqiyya\" as a manipulative strategy used by moderate Muslims to infiltrate and eventually overthrow society.\n\nSupporters are often fiercely pro-Israel.\n\nThe movement has been compared to the anti-communism of the Cold War. Geert Wilders, Dutch politician and speaker at counter-jihad events, argues that Islam is a political ideology that, like communism, is a totalitarian threat to a liberal social order. The Southern Poverty Law Center compares both as similar exaggerated threats. “Like the communists that an earlier generation believed to be hiding behind every rock, infiltrated “Islamist” operatives today are said to be diabolically preparing for a forcible takeover.”\n\nThe Cold War parallel is taken further by social commentator Bruce Bawer, who not only compares counter-jihad with anti-communism, but also compares those who criticize the counter-jihad movement with anti-anti-communists. The latter damned anti-Communists as “fanatical, paranoid conspiracy theorists” while “remaining all but silent about the evils of Communism itself.” Today it is fashionable to hold that “the good guys are the counter-counterjihadists – the journalists, activists, and others who make a career of slamming” counter-jihadists. Author Roger Kimball agrees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35549978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35549978", "title": "Dawn goddess", "text": "Dawn goddess\n\nA dawn goddess is a deity in a polytheistic religious tradition who is in some sense associated with the dawn.\n\nOccidental examples of dawn goddesses include the reconstructed Indo-European dawn goddess, see Hausos and her reflections in historical daughter traditions:\nIn Japan, the non-Indo-European dawn goddess Ame-no-Uzume-no-Mikoto (Uzume) is a Shinto spirit with a temperament very similar to Ushas and Eos.\n\nIn Sioux mythology, Anpao, the spirit of the dawn, has two faces.\n\n"}
{"id": "4688852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4688852", "title": "Deuki", "text": "Deuki\n\nDeuki is an ancient custom practiced in the far western regions of Nepal where a young girl is offered to the local temple. The practice is in decline.\n\nGirls become deukis either because their parents offer them in hopes of gaining protection and good favor from the Gods or because their parents sell them to wealthier couples seeking the same holy approval. Poor families who offer up their daughters gain status and approval from their communities from the perceived sacrifice they have made. They are also relieved of the burden of finding husbands for their daughters. \n\nAfter offering the girls to the temples, neither parents nor couples who bought them provide any financial assistance or have additional contact with deukis.\nBecause they are considered unfit for marriage and receive no money from those that dedicated them to their temples, deukis have to depend on worshipers’ monetary offerings to the temple. Left with insufficient income, no skills or education, and pressure brought on by the folkloric conviction that sex with a deuki can cleanse sins and bring good luck, many deukis are driven to survival sex, a form of prostitution in which sex is traded for basic necessities such as food or shelter.\n\nDue to the existing law stating that Nepalese citizenship falls along the father’s line, daughters born to deukis, known as devis, frequently cannot become citizens of Nepal. Denied access to education and other social services, many devis become deukis. Though a legislative change in 2006 makes it slightly easier for deukis to get citizenship for their children if they can prove that the father is Nepalese, matrilineal descent remains unrecognized.\n\nTraditionally, deuki girls were offered to temples at the age of five or six–while they were still “pure”–as sacred temple slaves or temple dancers. They performed various services for the temple to which they had been offered until they reached puberty, at which point they were expected to provide sexual services for male priests and worshippers.\n\nThe role of deukis in society was once quite different from its current stigmatized reality. In his dissertation, Robynne A. Locke describes the ancient deukis' status:\nAs time went on, however, the patronage of the temples fell and this version of the system disappeared. Though deukis still receive some respect for their holy status, it is rarely expressed monetarily.\nToday, deukis are frequently raped by a priest immediately after dedication- still when they are between five and seven years old. Abandoned by their parents and all other support systems, these girls grow up largely on their own with no education or learned skills.\nIn recent scholarship, some authors have asserted that the sex trafficking problem in Nepal has roots in traditions like deuki, which created the precedent of women being viewed more like objects and symbols than like people. Others assert that the presence of deuki in communities simply leaves their populations predisposed to accept such practices.\n\nThe practice of deuki has been formally abolished by the Nepalese government. Despite this fact, girls continue to become deukis. The Nepal Constitution of 1990 deemed the practice to be human trafficking and exploitation in the name of religion and culture, and several pieces of legislation have passed that should have curtailed the number of Deukis. According to a UN report, however, the number of deukis increased between 1992 and 2010.\nThe actual number of deukis today is contestable, as the exact statistics are unavailable. Estimates range between under 2,000 and over 30,000, leaving a great deal of uncertainty.\n\nNevertheless, the government seems determined to crack down on deuki and other trafficking practices that have been prevalent in Western Nepal for so long. According to Sher Jung Karki, undersecretary at the Ministry of Women, Children, and Social Welfare, a new bill aimed at protecting women from various types of abuse would help with these measures as “each and every act that promotes discrimination and violence against women in the name of religion and customs will be considered a punishable offense.” This bill, implemented earlier this year, creates greater responsibility for perpetrators of such offenses, including the sale and dedication of young girls, by broadening the definition of abuse and by making its consequences more severe with mandatory compensation (including treatment expenses for physical and psychological abuse) to the victim and jail time.\n\nNGOs such as Jandesh have worked to successfully rehabilitate many Deukis by teaching them “skills in the sewing, stitching, cattle farming, cottage and beauty industries, as well as [providing] literacy classes” and getting their children into schools. For older deukis, however, change is more difficult. Government programs and NGOs are less invested in their rehabilitation, so they receive less assistance. Such women also find it harder to transition into a different lifestyle after an entire lifetime of being a deuki.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9053027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9053027", "title": "Disputation of Barcelona", "text": "Disputation of Barcelona\n\nThe Disputation of Barcelona (July 20–24, 1263) was a formal ordered medieval debate between representatives of Christianity and Judaism regarding whether or not Jesus was the Messiah. It was held at the royal palace of King James I of Aragon in the presence of the King, his court, and many prominent ecclesiastical dignitaries and knights, between Dominican Friar Pablo Christiani, a convert from Judaism to Christianity, and Nachmanides (Moshe Ben Nachman), a leading medieval Jewish scholar, philosopher, physician, kabbalist, and biblical commentator.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, there were numerous ordered disputations between Christians and Jews. They were connected with burnings of the Talmud at the stake and violence against Jews. At Barcelona, Jews as well as Christians were given absolute freedom to speak their arguments how they wanted, making this unique among disputations.\n\nThe ordered disputation was organized by Raymond de Penyafort, the superior of Christiani and the confessor of James I. Christiani had been preaching to the Jews of Provence. Relying upon the reserve his adversary would be forced to maintain through fear of incurring the wrath of the Christian dignitaries, Christiani assured the King that he could prove the truth of Christianity from the Talmud and other rabbinical writings. Nachmanides complied with the order of the King, but stipulated that complete freedom of speech should be granted.\n\nThe disputation took place in front of the royal court of King James of Aragon (1263), who guaranteed and asserted freedom of speech for the Jewish spokesperson Nachmanides. This led to a genuine confrontation between Christianity and Judaism in which the true fundamental differences between the two religions could be brought to light.\n\nThe debate turned on the following questions:\n\nBased upon several aggadic passages, Christiani argued that Pharisaic sages believed that the Messiah had lived during the Talmudic period, and that they must therefore have believed that the Messiah was Jesus.\n\nNachmanides argued that Jews were not required to believe the aggadic materials found in the Talmud. He countered that Christiani's interpretations of Talmudic passages were per-se distortions; the rabbis would not hint that Jesus was the Messiah while, at the same time, explicitly opposing him as such:\n\n\"Does he mean to say that the sages of the Talmud believed in Jesus as the messiah and believed that he is both human and divine, as held by the Christians? However, it is well known that the incident of Jesus took place during the period of the Second Temple. He was born and killed prior to the destruction of the Temple, while the sages of the Talmud, like R. Akiba and his associates, followed this destruction. Those who compiled the Mishnah, Rabbi and R. Nathan, lived many years after the destruction. All the more so R. Ashi who compiled the Talmud, who lived about four hundred years after the destruction. If these sages believed that Jesus was the messiah and that his faith and religion were true and if they wrote these things from which Friar Paul intends to prove this, then how did they remain in the Jewish faith and in their former practice? For they were Jews, remained in the Jewish faith all their lives, and died Jews - they and their children and their students who heard their teachings. Why did they not convert and turn to the faith of Jesus, as Friar Paul did? ... If these sages believed in Jesus and in his faith, how is it that they did not do as Friar Paul, who understands their teachings better than they themselves do?\"\nNachmanides noted that prophetic promises of the Messianic Age, a reign of universal peace and justice had not yet been fulfilled. Nachmanides also argued that since the appearance of Jesus of Nazareth, the world had still been filled with violence and injustice, and among all religions, he claimed that the Christians were the most warlike. He asserted that questions of the Messiah are of less dogmatic importance to Jews than most Christians imagine, because it is more meritorious for the Jews to observe the precepts of the Torah under a Christian ruler, while in exile and suffering humiliation and abuse, than under the rule of the Messiah, when every one would perforce act in accordance with the Law.\n\nNachmanides demonstrated from numerous biblical and Talmudic sources that traditional (rabbinic) Jewish belief ran contrary to Christiani's postulates, and showed that the Biblical prophets regarded the future messiah as a human, a person of flesh and blood, without ascribing him divine attributes.\n\"[... it seems most strange that... ] the Creator of Heaven and Earth resorted to the womb of a certain Jewish lady, grew there for nine months and was born as an infant, and afterwards grew up and was betrayed into the hands of his enemies who sentenced him to death and executed him, and that afterwards... he came to life and returned to his original place. The mind of a Jew, or any other person, simply cannot tolerate these assertions. If you have listened all your life to the priests who have filled your brain and the marrow of your bones with this doctrine, and it has settled into you because of that accustomed habit. [I would argue that if you were hearing these ideas for the first time, now, as a grown adult], you would never have accepted them.\"\nAccording to a report by Nachmanides,\n\nFriar Paul claimed: \"Behold the passage in Isaiah, chapter 53, tells of the death of the messiah and how he was to fall into the hands of his enemies and how he was placed alongside the wicked, as happened to Jesus. Do you believe that this section speaks of the messiah?\n\nI said to him: \"In terms of the true meaning of the section, it speaks only of the people of Israel, which the prophets regularly call 'Israel My servant' or 'Jacob My servant.'\"\n\nThe Jewish residents of Barcelona, fearing the resentment of the Dominicans, entreated him to discontinue; but the King, whom Nachmanides had acquainted with the apprehensions of the Jews, desired him to proceed. At the end of the disputation, James I awarded Nachmanides a prize of 300 gold coins and declared that never before had he heard \"an unjust cause so nobly defended.\" On the Shabbat after the debate, the king also attended the Sinagoga Major de Barcelona, arguably one of the oldest synagogues in Europe, and addressed the Jewish congregants there, \"a thing unheard of during the Middle Ages\".\n\nSince the Dominicans claimed victory, Nachmanides left Aragon never to return again and in 1267 he settled in Palestine. There he founded a synagogue in the Old City of Jerusalem, the Ramban Synagogue: it is the oldest synagogue in Jerusalem.\n\nIn August 1263, James I ordered the removal of passages deemed offensive from the Talmud. The committee assigned to carry out this censorship consisted of Bishop of Barcelona Arnoldo de Guerbo, Raymond de Penyafort, and the Dominicans Arnoldo de Legarra, Pedro de Janua and Ramón Martí (author of \"Pugio Fidei\").\n\nThe event was the inspiration for Hyam Maccoby's play, \"The Disputation\". This was dramatized for television in 1986 by Channel 4, starring Christopher Lee, Bob Peck and Alan Dobie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16148340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16148340", "title": "Freedom of religion in Azerbaijan", "text": "Freedom of religion in Azerbaijan\n\nAzerbaijan is a multicultural and multi-religious country and a secular country. People of many religions coexist in Azerbaijan. The article 48 of The Constitution of Azerbaijan ensures the right to liberty and people of all faiths may choose and practice their religion without restriction. Article 18 of the Constitution of Azerbaijan states that religion acts separately from the state affairs and the government. People of all beliefs are equal before the law and the propaganda of any religion, including Islam, while majority of the population is Muslim, is still prohibited strictly as a case of contradicting humanism.\n\nThe country has an area of and a population of 9.8 million (2017). There were no reliable statistics on membership in specific religious groups; however, according to official figures approximately 96 percent of the population is Muslim. The remainder of the population consists mostly of Russian Orthodox, Armenian Apostolic (Almost all of which live in the break-away region of Nagorno-Karabakh), Jews, and nonbelievers. Among the Muslim majority, religious observance is relatively low, and Muslim identity tends to be based more on culture and ethnicity than religion. According to the State Committee on Work with Religious Associations (SCWRA), the Muslim population is approximately 85 percent Shi'a and 15 percent Sunni; traditionally, differences are not defined sharply. In a 2016 report, the U.S. Department of State puts the number as 65 percent Shia and 35 percent Sunni for the year 2011.\n\nThe vast majority of Christians are Russian Orthodox. According to the U.S. Department of State, their \"identity, like that of Muslims, tends to be based as much on culture and ethnicity as religion\". Christians were concentrated in the urban areas of Baku, which is the nation's capital, and Sumgayit, its third-largest city.\n\nOf a total Jewish population of approximately 15,000, the vast majority live in Baku. Much smaller communities exist in Guba in village and municipality named Red Town and elsewhere. There are five to six rabbis and six synagogues in the country.\n\nShi'a, Sunni, Russian Orthodox, and Jews are considered to be the country's \"traditional\" religious groups. Small congregations of Lutherans, Roman Catholics, Baptists, Molokans (Old Believers), Seventh-day Adventists, and Baha'is have been present for over 100 years.\n\nIn the last decade, a number of religious groups considered foreign or \"nontraditional\" have established a presence, including \"Wahhabi\" and Salafist Muslims, Pentecostal and evangelical Christians, Jehovah's Witnesses, and Hare Krishnas.\n\nThere were significant expatriate Christian and Muslim communities in Baku; authorities generally permitted these groups to worship freely.\n\nThe Constitution provides that persons of all faiths may choose and practice their religion without restriction. Under the Constitution each person has the right to choose and change his or her own religious affiliation and belief (including atheism), to join or establish the religious group of his or her choice, and to practice his or her religion. The law on religious freedom expressly prohibits the Government from interfering in the religious activities of any individual or group; however, there are exceptions, including cases where the activity of a religious group \"threatens public order and stability\".\n\nA number of legal provisions enable the Government to regulate religious groups, The requirement for religious organizations in Azerbaijan to register through SCWRA is according to the law accepted on June 21, 2001. After Amendments to the Law on Freedom of Religion was adopted (8 May 2009), registration process was modified and already registered organizations had to register again through SCWRA this time. This process enables SCWRA to monitor the registration process; and if necessary, appeal to the courts to discontinue activities of religions groups. Registration is processed based on the location as mentioned in the application. When there is any change in the location of the organization, it should be reported to SCWRA and appropriate modifications should be made in registration process. After registering through SCWRA, religious groups obtain rights to function as a legal entity, have a bank account and rent a possession. The organizations, which were unsuccessful to register may be proclaimed as illegal and prohibited to function.\n\nSince 2001 religious groups must register with the SCWRA. The SCWRA has broad powers over registration and the publication, import, and distribution of religious literature, and it may suspend the activities of religious groups who violate the law.\n\nSome religious groups experienced difficulties with disapproval of registration according to the \"International Religious Freedom Report 2015\", applications are denied according to the legislation. When all necessary documents organized appropriately are presented to the responsible entity, registration is accomplished. If the actions, objects or instructions of the religious groups oppose the legislation of Azerbaijan, or its charter and other documents are in contrast with the laws, or they contain false information, then registration of those groups can be refused by responsible authorities. Religious groups have rights to appeal the disapproval of registration to the courts.\n\nAccording to the SCWRA, it registered 48 new groups from May 2006 through June 2007 and did not reject any applications. All of the newly registered groups were Muslim communities. The SCWRA reported 392 total registered religious communities in the country.\n\nUnder the law on religious freedom, political parties cannot engage in religious activity, and religious leaders are forbidden from seeking public office. Religious facilities may not be used for political purposes.\n\nThe law on religious freedom, which the Government enforces, prohibits foreigners from proselytizing.\n\nRegistered Muslim organizations are subordinate to the Caucasian Muslim Board (CMB), a Soviet-era muftiate that appoints Muslim clerics to mosques, periodically monitors sermons, and organizes annual pilgrimages to Mecca. Muslim religious groups must receive a letter of approval from the CMB before they can be registered by the SCWRA. Some Muslim religious leaders objected to interference from both the CMB and the SCWRA.\n\nReligious instruction is not mandatory, and there is no religious curriculum for public elementary and high schools; however, there is no restriction on teaching religion in public schools.\n\nOf the five main Baptist churches, three have successfully registered; however, during the reporting period the SCWRA again rejected the applications of the Baptist churches in Aliabad (which has sought registration for 15 years) and Neftchala. Baptists stated the Aliabad notary refused to review the community's registration documents.\n\nIn December 2006 SCWRA officials reportedly told the Assembly of God community in Baku that it would have to give the SCWRA advance notice of meetings in order to be registered. The Assemblies of God reported that they tried to register their churches in Baku and Sumgayit several times—most recently in January 2007—but did not receive a response from the SCWRA. An Assembly of God representative met with SCWRA officials in May and June 2007 to advance the registration process, but the SCWRA said that it was still examining the application. In June police also interfered in one of the church's gatherings in Baku.\n\nThe Juma Mosque has remained closed since June 2004; the mosque's imam was still not allowed to travel abroad at the end of the reporting period.\n\nIn May 2007 SCWRA head Hidayat Orujov stated that only 9 of 49 mosques in Guba were registered. Local commentators reported that Salafists were particularly active in the country's northern regions of Guba and Kachmaz.\n\nThe law on religious freedom expressly prohibits religious proselytizing by foreigners, and the Government strictly enforced this. The Government was concerned about Islamic missionary groups (predominantly Iranian and Wahhabi) operating in the country and, as in previous years, restricted their activities.\n\nSome Muslims complained about the SCWRA's allegedly indiscriminate use of the term \"Wahhabi\" to cast a shadow on devout Muslims. Local Protestant Christians also claimed that SCWRA Chairman Orujov derogatorily referred to their organizations as \"sects.\"\n\nIn May 2007 a Baku court sentenced a journalist and the editor of the Sanat newspaper on charges of \"inciting religious hatred.\" The journalist was given a 3-year prison term, and the editor was given a 4-year term. The journalist had written an article, published in November 2006, arguing Islamic values retarded the country's development.\n\nThe law permits the production and dissemination of religious literature with the approval of the SCWRA; only religious literature, which promote religious intolerance, discrimination and radical religious ideas are restricted to import to the country by SCWRA.\n\nThe Government regulates travel for the purpose of religious training. Prospective travelers must obtain permission from, or register with, the SCWRA or the Ministry of Education to go abroad for religious studies.\n\nNo religious identification is required in passports or other identity documents. However, the Center for the Protection of Conscience and Religious Freedom reported that authorities prohibited Muslim women from wearing headscarves in passport photos and other official identity documents.\n\nSome local officials continued to discourage Muslim women from wearing headscarves in schools.\n\nThe official website of Jehovah's Witnesses reported on March 23, 2015 that \"religious intolerance is escalating in Azerbaijan as law-enforcement authorities impose heavy fines on Jehovah’s Witnesses and imprison them.\" It added: \"Authorities are criminally prosecuting the Witnesses for meeting together for worship and for talking to others about their beliefs.\"\n\nPress reports indicated that the Armenian Apostolic Church enjoyed a special status in the Nagorno-Karabakh region. The largely Muslim, ethnic Azerbaijani population in Nagorno-Karabakh and the seven occupied territories had fled the region during the conflict with Armenia in the 1990s and remained unable to return to these areas.\n\nDuring the reporting period, there were several incidents of police arresting Wahhabis and sometimes confiscating weapons and literature, particularly in the northern regions of Guba, Khachmaz, Gax, and Zaqatala, according to local contacts and the press. In April 2007, for example, police detained 16 alleged radical Salafists in Khachmaz.\n\nAntisemitism is one of the forms of national intolerance, expressed in a hostile attitude towards Jews as an ethnic or religious group. Antisemitism is not observed in Azerbaijan. Over the centuries, different ethnic and linguistic groups of Jews lived on the territory of Azerbaijan: Mountain Jews, Ashkenazi, Krymchaks, Kurdish Jews, Georgian Jews. In the 19th century majority of the Jewish population of Azerbaijan were mountain Jews, in the 20th century the majority were Ashkenazi.\nThe main Jewish center was the city of Guba, where in 1835 were 5492 Jews (of whom 2718 people concentrated in the Jewish quarter); In 1866 in the city lived 6282 Jews. Comparatively large communities of Mountain Jews were also present in the villages of Vartashen and Mudji. In 1864, in the village of Vartashen (since 1990 - Oguz), the majority of the population were Jews. In 1886 there lived 1400 Jews, there were three prayer houses, two Talmud-Huns with 40 pupils. It is known that the total number of literate who can read the Torah, was 70 people, among them there were five Jews who were called rabbis. In 1917 the weekly \"Kavkazer Vochenblat\" (in Yiddish) was published in Baku, in 1917-1918 - the weekly \"Caucasian Jewish Herald\" with the application \"Palestine\". In 1919 the newspaper \"Tobushi sabhi\" (in the Hebrew-Tatar language) was issued for some time. With the final establishment of Soviet power (April 1920), the independent Jewish press ceased to exist. Since 1922, the newspaper Korsokh was published in the capital of Azerbaijan in the Hebrew-Tatar language - the organ of the Caucasian Committee of the Jewish Communist Party and its youth organization. In the 1990s, there were two synagogues in Baku (mountain Jews and Ashkenazi), as well as synagogues of mountain Jews in Guba and Oguz and a synagogue of gays in Privolnoye. In September 1993, a seminar of rabbis of Azerbaijan, Georgia and Dagestan was held in Baku. In 1994, a yeshiva was opened there. In 1997, a synagogue of Georgian Jews was opened in Baku. In the early 2000s. In the suburbs of Guba, the Red Sloboda, there were three synagogues of Mountain Jews, and the yeshiva operated. Since 1999, a religious Jewish high school has been working in Baku. According to 1994 data, Hebrew was taught at the university and in two high schools in the capital. Hebrew courses were conducted in Baku, Guba and Oguz. Representatives of the Jewish Agency and teachers from Israel provided great assistance in organizing classes; Among the students of the courses there were also non-Jews. In front of the audience were a Jewish ensemble of chamber music, a children's choir, a dance ensemble. Local radio and television regularly broadcast records of Israeli pop music.\nThe leadership of Azerbaijan seeks to establish political and economic ties with Israel. Diplomatic relations were established in 1993. On 11 May 1994, the Chargé d'Affaires of the State of Israel in Azerbaijan, Eliezer Yotvat, presented his credentials to President Heydar Aliyev. In August 1999, the Israeli parliamentary delegation paid an official visit to Azerbaijan. The volume of exports from Israel to Azerbaijan in 1993 amounted to 545 thousand dollars, imports - twelve thousand; In 1994, exports and imports increased significantly.\n\nSome religious groups in the country reported improvements in their ability to function freely. Several churches indicated that they received or expected to receive their registration, were able to import religious literature, and met without government interference.\n\nThe Government promotes interfaith understanding. The SCWRA convened leaders of various religious communities on several occasions to resolve disputes in private and provided forums for visiting officials to discuss religious issues with religious figures. The SCWRA organizes several seminars, conferences, and regional meetings on religious freedom and tolerance regularly. On 26–27 April 2007 Azerbaijan hosted the international conference on the “Role of Media in Development of Tolerance and Mutual Understanding\" as a member of the Organization of the Islamic Conference.\n\nIn May 2007 construction began on a new Jewish educational complex. Authorities also reserved one wing of a Baku school for secular and religious classes for 200 Jewish students.\n\nAzerbaijani Government allocates financial support to different religious groups continuously. The latest allocation was determined among Caucasian Muslims Office, Archbishop of Baku and Azerbaijan of the Russian Orthodox Church, Community of Mountain Jews in Baku, Community of European Jews in Baku, Apostolic Prefecture of the Roman Catholic Church in Azerbaijan and Alban-Udi Christian Community from the 2018 Presidential Reserve Fund according to Presidential Decree dated 11 June 2018.\n\nThe Government of Azerbaijan promotes religious tolerance by organizing inter-religious events, financially supporting workshops relating to this issue. A number of regional conferences have been organized by the government in order to stimulated religious tolerance and fight against religious radicalism. Azerbaijan hosted 7th Global Forum of the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations.\n\nPope Francis visited Azerbaijan in October 2016 and expressed his positive opinions publicly on interfaith dialogue and religious tolerance in the country.\n\nSCWRA organizes conferences, dialogues, public events, trainings and seminars relating to religious issues with the participation of representatives of different faiths. The Eurasian Regional Center of Islamic Conference Youth Forum is one of the organizations that support these kinds of activities along with SCWRA.\n\nAn international conference on ‘Islamic Solidarity – A Challenge of Time’ organized by Caucasus Muslim Board, SCWRA, Baku International Center of Multiculturalism and National Academy of Science of Azerbaijan took place on March 15, 2017 in Baku.\n\nThe seminar on “Multiculturalism and Inter-religious Tolerance: The Experience of Azerbaijan and its Significance for Europe” was organized by ISDP, the Baku International Multiculturalism Center and the Embassy of Azerbaijan in Sweden on November 18, 2015.\n\nNo matter there is an ongoing conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, religious and ethnic tolerance is promoted in Azerbaijan. Therefore, Catholicos of all Armenians Karekin II visited Baku to take part at the World religious Leaders Summit. He has also been to Armenian Church in the center of Baku during his visit. This event has a historic significance, as it was the first time an Armenian religious leader visited Baku after territories of Azerbaijan was occupied.\n\nSummit of World Religious Leaders was held in Baku on June 1, 2010 initiated by the Board of Caucasus Muslims and organized by Inter-Religious Council of the CIS. Representatives of Buddhist, Christian, Jewish and Muslim groups, as well as international organizations took part in the event, including Kirill I, Patriarch of Moscow and all Rus’, and Karekin II, the Catholicos of All Armenians. In the end of the conference, a final declaration was signed inviting religious leaders to broaden their activities in promoting peace and discarding radicalism, extremist ideologies, aggressive separatism, and terrorism.\n\nThere were some reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice. There was popular prejudice against Muslims who convert to other faiths and hostility toward groups that proselytize, particularly evangelical Christian and other missionary groups. This was accentuated by the unresolved conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh.\n\nHostility between Armenians and Azerbaijanis, intensified by the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, remained strong. In those areas of the country controlled by Armenians, all ethnic Azerbaijanis have fled, and the mosques that had not been destroyed remained inactive. Animosity toward ethnic Armenians elsewhere in the country forced most of them to flee between 1988 and 1990, and all Armenian churches, many of which were damaged in ethnic riots that took place more than a decade ago, remained closed. As a consequence, the estimated 10,000 to 30,000 ethnic Armenians who briefly remained were unable to attend services in their traditional places of worship and had to hide their identity. Due to the lack of physical safety, almost all of the remaining Armenians also later fled.\n\nAt the end of the reporting period, Jehovah's Witnesses in Baku reported being unable to use a building they had rented for the purpose of religious meetings since signing a rental agreement in September 2006. According to Jehovah's Witnesses, local residents hired private security guards to prevent their access to the property on September 21, 2006, and local police informed the group on September 24 that they would not be able to hold meetings in the space due to residents' complaints. On April 17, 2007, four men reportedly broke into the building and attacked two Jehovah's Witnesses and property inside. The group reported that local police refused to investigate the incident despite the attackers being identified.\n\nAs in previous reporting periods, newspapers and television broadcasts depicted \"nontraditional\" religious groups as threats to the identity of the nation and as undermining the country's traditions of interfaith harmony, which led to local harassment.\n\nDuring the reporting period, articles critical of Wahhabism and of Christian missionaries appeared in newspapers, and one television channel aired \"exposes\" of Christian church services.\n\nHostility also existed toward foreign (mostly Iranian and Wahhabi) Muslim missionary activity, which many viewed as attempts to spread political Islam, and therefore as a threat to stability and peace. The media targeted some Muslim communities that the Government claimed were involved in illegal activities.\n\nOn April 11, 2007, unidentified individuals threw a burning object through the window of a newly constructed Roman Catholic church in Baku. The church's priest publicly stated that the incident was almost certainly criminal and thanked local authorities for investigating the matter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47486915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47486915", "title": "Gosekku", "text": "Gosekku\n\nThe Gosekku (五節句), also known as \"sekku\" (節句), are the five annual ceremonies that were traditionally held at the Japanese imperial court. The origins were adapted from Chinese practices and celebrated in Japan since the Nara period in the 8-10th century CE. The festivals were held until the beginning of the Meiji era. Some of them are still celebrated by the public today.\n\n\nThe artist Ikeda Koson (1801-1866) painted five hanging scrolls in around 1830, which depict the festivals.\n\n"}
{"id": "33189221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33189221", "title": "International Spiritualist Federation", "text": "International Spiritualist Federation\n\nThe International Spiritualist Federation is a society dedicated to supporting spiritualist churches around the globe, with particular emphasis on those based in countries which do not support spiritualism as a religion. The federation was first proposed at an 1888 conference held in Barcelona, but was officially established in 1923. Every year since then they have run courses and held lectures for one week which attempt to raise awareness of spiritualism. Particularly notable was the 1925 conference attended by then head of the organisation, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who blamed ectoplasm for his faulty slides during his presentation.\n"}
{"id": "52182209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52182209", "title": "Jocotitlán (volcano)", "text": "Jocotitlán (volcano)\n\nJocotitlán, also known as Xocotépetl (), is a volcano in the Jocotitlán and Atlacomulco municipalities, in the State of Mexico. At above sea level, its summit is the 12th highest peak of Mexico.\n\nJocotitlán volcano lies in the northern part of the Toluca Valley. It is part of the Eje Neovolcánico, a volcanic belt that traverses south-central Mexico. It is a stratovolcano formed by tephra and solidified lava flows. The volcano lies within the Isidro Fabela state park, a protected area of 3701 ha established in 1975.\n\nJocotitlán was considered holy by the Mazahua and Otomi peoples. The former called it \"Nguemore\" (\"sacred mountain\"), while the latter called it \"Gumidi\" (\"he who sits facing straight forward\"). In Pre-Columbian Mexico, the volcano held a sanctuary for Otontecuhtli, the Otomi king of the gods, also known to the Nahua people as fire god Xiuhtecuhtli. The volcano has also held a Catholic chapel since the 1980s. At , it is probably one of the highest chapels in Mexico.\n\nJocotitlán is a potentially active volcano, having erupted at least twice in the last 10,000 years. A series of cinder cones lying just north of the Jocotitlán volcano shows how intense the volcanic activity in the region is. If it erupts, the volcano could pose a serious threat to Greater Toluca and even Greater Mexico City.\n\nThe volcano can be easily climbed from the town of Jocotitlán. A winding 19 km country lane leads up to the microwave antenna located near the summit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1718653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718653", "title": "John Henrik Clarke", "text": "John Henrik Clarke\n\nJohn Henrik Clarke (born John Henry Clarke, January 1, 1915 – July 16, 1998), was an American historian, professor, and a pioneer in the creation of Pan-African and Africana studies, and professional institutions in academia starting in the late 1960s.\n\nHe was born John Henry Clarke on January 1, 1915, in Union Springs, Alabama, the youngest child of John (a sharecropper) and Willie Ella (Mays) Clarke (a washer woman), (who died in 1922). With the hopes of earning enough money to buy land rather than sharecrop, his family moved to the closest milltown, Columbus, Georgia.\n\nCounter to his mother's wishes for him to become a farmer, Clarke left Georgia in 1933 by freight train and went to Harlem, New York as part of the Great Migration of rural blacks out of the South to northern cities. There he pursued scholarship and activism. He renamed himself as John Henrik (after rebel Norwegian playwright Henrik Ibsen) and added an \"e\" to his surname, spelling it as \"Clarke.\"\n\nClarke was a professor of Black and Puerto Rican Studies at Hunter College of the City University of New York from 1969 to 1986, where he served as founding chairman of the department. He also was the Carter G. Woodson Distinguished Visiting Professor of African History at Cornell University’s Africana Studies and Research Center. Additionally, in 1968 he founded the African Heritage Studies Association and the Black Caucus of the African Studies Association.\n\nIn its obituary of Clarke, \"The New York Times\" noted that the activist's ascension to professor emeritus at Hunter College was \"unusual... without benefit of a high school diploma, let alone a Ph.D.\" It acknowledged that \"nobody said Professor Clarke wasn't an academic original.\" In 1994, Clarke earned a doctorate from the non-accredited Pacific Western University (now California Miramar University) in Los Angeles, having earned a bachelor's degree there in 1992.\n\nBy the 1920s, the Great Migration and demographic changes had led to a concentration of African Americans living in Harlem. A synergy developed among the artists, writers and musicians and many figured in the Harlem Renaissance. They began to develop supporting structures of study groups and informal workshops to develop newcomers and young people.\n\nArriving in Harlem at the age of 18 in 1933, Clarke developed as a writer and lecturer during the Great Depression years. He joined study circles such as the Harlem History Club and the Harlem Writers' Workshop. He studied intermittently at New York University, Columbia University, Hunter College, the New School of Social Research and the League for Professional Writers. He was an autodidact whose mentors included the scholar Arturo Alfonso Schomburg. From 1941 to 1945, Clarke served as a non-commissioned officer in the United States Army Air Forces, ultimately attaining the rank of master sergeant.\n\nIn the post-World War II era, there was new artistic development, with small presses and magazines being founded and surviving for brief times. Writers and publishers continued to start new enterprises: Clarke was co-founder of the \"Harlem Quarterly\" (1949–51), book review editor of the \"Negro History Bulletin\" (1948–52), associate editor of the magazine, \"Freedomways,\" and a feature writer for the black-owned \"Pittsburgh Courier\".\n\nClarke taught at the New School for Social Research from 1956 to 1958. Traveling in West Africa in 1958–59, he met Kwame Nkrumah, whom he had mentored as a student in the US, and was offered a job working as a journalist for the \"Ghana Evening News\". He also lectured at the University of Ghana and elsewhere in Africa, including in Nigeria at the University of Ibadan.\n\nBecoming prominent during the Black Power movement in the 1960s, which began to advocate a kind of black nationalism, Clarke advocated for studies of the African-American experience and the place of Africans in world history. He challenged the views of academic historians and helped shift the way African history was studied and taught. Clarke was \"a scholar devoted to redressing what he saw as a systematic and racist suppression and distortion of African history by traditional scholars.\" He accused his detractors of having Eurocentric views. His writing included six scholarly books and many scholarly articles. He also edited anthologies of writing by African Americans, as well as collections of his own short stories. In addition, Clarke published general interest articles. In one especially heated controversy, he edited and contributed to an anthology of essays by African Americans attacking the white writer William Styron and his novel, \"The Confessions of Nat Turner,\" for his fictional portrayal of the African-American slave known for leading a rebellion in Virginia.\n\nBesides teaching at Hunter College and Cornell University, Clarke founded professional associations to support the study of black culture. He was a founder with Leonard Jeffries and first president of the African Heritage Studies Association, which supported scholars in areas of history, culture, literature and the arts. He was a founding member of other organizations to support work in black culture: the Black Academy of Arts and Letters and the African-American Scholars' Council.\n\nClarke's first marriage was to the mother of his daughter Lillie (who died before her father). They divorced.\n\nIn 1961, Clarke married Eugenia Evans in New York, and together they had a son and daughter: Nzingha Marie and Sonni Kojo. The marriage ended in divorce.\n\nIn 1997, John Henrik Clarke married his longtime companion, Sybil Williams. He died of a heart attack on July 12, 1998, at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was buried in Green Acres Cemetery, Columbus, Georgia.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31320562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31320562", "title": "Juan Diego", "text": "Juan Diego\n\nSaint Juan Diego Cuauhtlatoatzin, also known as Juan Diego (1474–1548), a native of Mexico, is the first Roman Catholic indigenous saint from the Americas. He is said to have been granted an apparition of the Virgin Mary on four separate occasions in December 1531 at the hill of Tepeyac, then outside but now well within metropolitan Mexico City.\n\nThe Basilica of Guadalupe, located at the foot of the hill of Tepeyac, claims to possess Juan Diego's mantle or cloak (known as a tilma) on which an image of the Virgin is said to have been impressed by a miracle as a pledge of the authenticity of the apparitions. These apparitions and the imparting of the miraculous image (together known as the Guadalupe event, in Spanish \"el acontecimiento Guadalupano\") are the basis of the veneration of Our Lady of Guadalupe, which is ubiquitous in Mexico, prevalent throughout the Spanish-speaking Americas, and increasingly widespread beyond. As a result, the Basilica of Guadalupe is now the world's major centre of pilgrimage for Roman Catholics, receiving 22 million visitors in 2010. Juan Diego was beatified in 1990 and canonized in 2002.\n\nAccording to the sources identified below, Juan Diego was an Indian born in 1474 in Cuauhtitlan, and at the time of the apparitions he lived there or in Tolpetlac. Although not destitute, he was neither rich nor influential. His religious fervor, his artlessness, his respectful but gracious demeanour towards the Virgin Mary and the initially skeptical Bishop Juan de Zumárraga, as well as his devotion to his sick uncle and, subsequently, to the Virgin at her shrine – all of which are central to the tradition – are among his defining characteristics and testify to the sanctity of life which is the indispensable criterion for canonization. He and his wife, María Lucía, were among the first to be baptized after the arrival of the main group of twelve Franciscan missionaries in Mexico in 1524. His wife died two years before the apparitions, although one source (Luis Becerra Tanco, possibly through inadvertence) claims she died two years after them. There is no firm tradition as to their marital relations. It is variously reported (a) that after their baptism he and his wife were inspired by a sermon on chastity to live celibately; alternatively (b) that they lived celibately throughout their marriage; and in the further alternative (c) that both of them lived and died as virgins. Alternatives (a) and (b) may not necessarily conflict with other reports that Juan Diego (possibly by another wife) had a son. Intrinsic to the narrative is Juan Diego's uncle, Juan Bernardino; but beyond him, María Lucía, and Juan Diego's putative son, no other family members are mentioned in the tradition. At least two 18th-century nuns claimed to be descended from Juan Diego. After the apparitions, Juan Diego was permitted to live next to the hermitage erected at the foot of the hill of Tepeyac, and he dedicated the rest of his life to serving the Virgin Mary at the shrine erected in accordance with her wishes. The date of death (in his 74th year) is given as 1548.\n\nThe earliest notices of an apparition of the Virgin Mary at Tepeyac to an Indian are to be found in various annals which are regarded by Dr. Miguel León-Portilla, one of the leading Mexican scholars in this field, as demonstrating \"that effectively many people were already flocking to the chapel of Tepeyac long before 1556, and that the tradition of Juan Diego and the apparitions of Tonantzin (Guadalupe) had already spread.\" Others (including leading Nahuatl and Guadalupe scholars in the USA) go only as far as saying that such notices \"are few, brief, ambiguous and themselves posterior by many years\". If correctly dated to the 16th century, the Codex Escalada – which portrays one of the apparitions and states that Juan Diego (identified by his indigenous name) died \"worthily\" in 1548 – must be accounted among the earliest and clearest of such notices.\nAfter the annals, a number of publications arose:\n\nThe following account is based on that given in the \"Nican Mopohua\" which was first published in Nahuatl in 1649 as part of a compendious work known as the \"Huei tlamahuiçoltica\". No part of that work was available in Spanish until 1895 when, as part of the celebrations for the coronation of the image of the Virgin of Guadalupe in that year, there was published a translation of the \"Nican Mopohua\" dating from the 18th century. This translation, however, was made from an incomplete copy of the original. Nor was any part of the \"Huei tlamahuiçoltica\" republished until 1929, when a facsimile of the original was published by Primo Feliciano Velásquez together with a full translation into Spanish (including the first full translation of the \"Nican Mopohua\"), since when the \"Nican Mopohua\", in its various translations and redactions, has supplanted all other versions as the narrative of preference. The precise dates in December 1531 (as given below) were not recorded in the Nican Mopohua, but are taken from the chronology first established by Mateo de la Cruz in 1660.\n\nJuan Diego, as a devout neophyte, was in the habit of regularly walking from his home to the Franciscan mission station at Tlatelolco for religious instruction and to perform his religious duties. His route passed by the hill at Tepeyac. First apparition: at dawn on Saturday December 9, 1531 while on his usual journey, he encountered the Virgin Mary who revealed herself as the ever-virgin Mother of God and instructed him to request the bishop to erect a chapel in her honour so that she might relieve the distress of all those who call on her in their need. He delivered the request, but was told by the bishop (Fray Juan Zumárraga) to come back another day after he had had time to reflect upon what Juan Diego had told him. Second apparition, later the same day: returning to Tepeyac, Juan Diego encountered the Virgin again and announced the failure of his mission, suggesting that because he was \"a back-frame, a tail, a wing, a man of no importance\" she would do better to recruit someone of greater standing, but she insisted that it was he whom she wanted for the task. Juan Diego agreed to return to the bishop to repeat his request. This he did on the morning of Sunday, December 10 when he found the bishop more compliant. The bishop, however, asked for a sign to prove that the apparition was truly of heaven. Third apparition: Juan Diego returned immediately to Tepeyac and, encountering the Virgin Mary reported the bishop's request for a sign; she condescended to provide one on the following day (December 11).\n\nBy Monday, December 11, however, Juan Diego's uncle Juan Bernardino had fallen sick and Juan Diego was obliged to attend to him. In the very early hours of Tuesday, December 12, Juan Bernardino's condition having deteriorated overnight, Juan Diego set out to Tlatelolco to get a priest to hear Juan Bernardino's confession and minister to him on his death-bed. \nFourth apparition: in order to avoid being delayed by the Virgin and embarrassed at having failed to meet her on the Monday as agreed, Juan Diego chose another route around the hill, but the Virgin intercepted him and asked where he was going; Juan Diego explained what had happened and the Virgin gently chided him for not having had recourse to her. In the words which have become the most famous phrase of the Guadalupe event and are inscribed over the main entrance to the Basilica of Guadalupe, she asked: \"No estoy yo aqui que soy tu madre?\" (Am I not here, I who am your mother?). She assured him that Juan Bernardino had now recovered and she told him to climb the hill and collect flowers growing there. Obeying her, Juan Diego found an abundance of flowers unseasonably in bloom on the rocky outcrop where only cactus and scrub normally grew. Using his open mantle as a sack (with the ends still tied around his neck) he returned to the Virgin; she re-arranged the flowers and told him to take them to the bishop. On gaining admission to the bishop in Mexico City later that day, Juan Diego opened his mantle, the flowers poured to the floor, and the bishop saw they had left on the mantle an imprint of the Virgin's image which he immediately venerated.\n\nFifth apparition: the next day Juan Diego found his uncle fully recovered, as the Virgin had assured him, and Juan Bernardino recounted that he too had seen her, at his bed-side; that she had instructed him to inform the bishop of this apparition and of his miraculous cure; and that she had told him she desired to be known under the title of Guadalupe. The bishop kept Juan Diego's mantle first in his private chapel and then in the church on public display where it attracted great attention. On December 26, 1531 a procession formed for taking the miraculous image back to Tepeyac where it was installed in a small hastily erected chapel. In course of this procession, the first miracle was allegedly performed when an Indian was mortally wounded in the neck by an arrow shot by accident during some stylized martial displays executed in honour of the Virgin. In great distress, the Indians carried him before the Virgin's image and pleaded for his life. Upon the arrow being withdrawn, the victim made a full and immediate recovery.\n\nThe modern movement for the canonization of Juan Diego (to be distinguished from the process for gaining official approval for the Guadalupe cult, which had begun in 1663 and was realized in 1754) can be said to have arisen in earnest in 1974 during celebrations marking the five hundredth anniversary of the traditional date of his birth, but it was not until January 1984 that the then Archbishop of Mexico, Cardinal Ernesto Corripio Ahumada, named a Postulator to supervise and coordinate the inquiry, and initiated the formal process for canonization. The procedure for this first, or diocesan, stage of the canonization process had recently been reformed and simplified by order of Pope John Paul II.\n\nThe diocesan inquiry was formally concluded in March 1986, and the decree opening the Roman stage of the process was obtained on April 7, 1986. When the decree of validity of the diocesan inquiry was given on January 9, 1987 (permitting the cause to proceed), the candidate became officially \"venerable\". The documentation (known as the \"Positio\" or \"position paper\") was published in 1989, in which year all the bishops of Mexico petitioned the Holy See in support of the cause. Thereafter, there was a scrutiny of the \"Positio\" by consultors expert in history (concluded in January 1990) and by consultors expert in theology (concluded in March 1990), following which the Congregation for the Causes of Saints formally approved the \"Positio\" and Pope John Paul II signed the relative decree on April 9, 1990. The process of beatification was completed in a ceremony presided over by Pope John Paul II at the Basilica of Guadalupe on May 6, 1990 when December 9 was declared as the feast day to be held annually in honor of the candidate for sainthood thereafter known as \"Blessed Juan Diego Cuauthlatoatzin\". In accordance with the exceptional cases provided for by Urban VIII (1625, 1634) when regulating the procedures for beatification and canonization, the requirement for an authenticating miracle prior to beatification was dispensed with, on the grounds of the antiquity of the cult.\n\nNotwithstanding the fact that the beatification was \"equipollent\", the normal requirement is that at least one miracle must be attributable to the intercession of the candidate before the cause for canonization can be brought to completion. The events accepted as fulfilling this requirement occurred between May 3 and 9, 1990 in Querétaro, Mexico (precisely during the period of the beatification) when a 20-year-old drug addict named Juan José Barragán Silva fell 10 meters head first from an apartment balcony on to a cement area in an apparent suicide bid. His mother Esperanza, who witnessed the fall, invoked Juan Diego to save her son who had sustained severe injuries to his spinal column, neck and cranium (including intra-cranial haemorrhage). Barragán was taken to hospital where he went into coma from which he suddenly emerged on May 6, 1990. A week later he was sufficiently recovered to be discharged. The reputed miracle was investigated according to the usual procedure of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints: first the facts of the case (including medical records and six eye-witness testimonies including those of Barragán and his mother) were gathered in Mexico and forwarded to Rome for approval as to sufficiency, which was granted in November 1994. Next, the unanimous report of five medical consultors (as to the gravity of the injuries, the likelihood of their proving fatal, the impracticability of any medical intervention to save the patient, his complete and lasting recovery, and their inability to ascribe it to any known process of healing) was received, and approved by the Congregation in February 1998. From there the case was passed to theological consultors who examined the nexus between (i) the fall and the injuries, (ii) the mother's faith in and invocation of Blessed Juan Diego, and (iii) the recovery, inexplicable in medical terms. Their unanimous approval was signified in May 2001. Finally, in September 2001, the Congregation for the Causes of Saints voted to approve the miracle, and the relative decree formally acknowledging the events as miraculous was signed by Pope John Paul II on December 20, 2001. The Catholic Church considers an approved miracle to be a Divinely-granted validation of the results achieved by the human process of inquiry which constitutes a cause for canonization.\n\nAs not infrequently happens, the process for canonization in this case was subject to delays and obstacles of various kinds. In the instant case, certain interventions were initiated through unorthodox routes in early 1998 by a small group of ecclesiastics in Mexico (then or formerly attached to the Basilica of Guadalupe) pressing for a review of the sufficiency of the historical investigation. This review, which not infrequently occurs in cases of equipollent beatifications, was entrusted by the Congregation for the Causes of Saints (acting in concert with the Archdiocese of Mexico) to a special Historical Commission headed by the Mexican ecclesiastical historians Fidel González, Eduardo Chávez Sánchez, and José Guerrero. The results of the review were presented to the Congregation for the Causes of Saints on October 28, 1998 which unanimously approved them. In the following year, the fruit of the Commission's work was published in book form by González, Chávez Sánchez and Guerrero under the title \"Encuentro de la Virgen de Guadalupe y Juan Diego\". This served, however, only to intensify the protests of those who were attempting to delay or prevent the canonization, and the arguments over the quality of the scholarship displayed by the \"Encuentro\" were conducted first in private and then in public. The main objection against the \"Encuentro\" was that it failed adequately to distinguish between the antiquity of the cult and the antiquity of the tradition of the apparitions; the argument on the other side was that every tradition has an initial oral stage where documentation will be lacking. The authenticity of the Codex Escalada and the dating of the \"Nican Mopohua\" to the 16th or 17th century have a material bearing on the duration of the oral stage. Final approbation of the decree of canonization was signified in a Consistory held on February 26, 2002 at which Pope John Paul II announced that the rite of canonization would take place in Mexico at the Basilica of Guadalupe on July 31, 2002, as indeed occurred.\n\nThe debate over the historicity of St. Juan Diego and, by extension, of the apparitions and the miraculous image, begins with a contemporary to Juan Diego, named Antonio Valeriano. Valeriano was one of the best Indian scholars at the College of Santiago de Tlatelolco at the time that Juan Diego was alive; he was proficient in Spanish as well as Latin, and a native speaker of Nahuatl. He knew Juan Diego personally\nSome objections to the historicity of the Guadalupe event, grounded in the silence of the very sources which – so it is argued – are those most likely to have referred to it, were raised as long ago as 1794 by Juan Bautista Muñoz and were expounded in detail by Mexican historian Joaquín García Icazbalceta in a confidential report dated 1883 commissioned by the then Archbishop of Mexico and first published in 1896. The silence of the sources is discussed in a separate section, below. The most prolific contemporary protagonist in the debate is Stafford Poole, a historian and Vincentian priest in the United States of America, who questioned the integrity and rigor of the historical investigation conducted by the Catholic Church in the interval between Juan Diego's beatification and his canonization.\n\nFor a brief period in mid-1996 a vigorous debate was ignited in Mexico when it emerged that Guillermo Schulenburg, who at that time was 80 years of age, did not believe that Juan Diego was a historical person or (which follows from it) that it is his mantle which is conserved and venerated at the Basilica. That debate, however, was focused not so much on the weight to be accorded to the historical sources which attest to Juan Diego's existence as on the propriety of Abbot Schulenburg retaining an official position which – so it was objected – his advanced age, allegedly extravagant life-style and heterodox views disqualified him from holding. Abbot Schulenburg's resignation (announced on September 6, 1996) terminated that debate. The scandal, however, re-erupted in January 2002 when the Italian journalist Andrea Tornielli published in the Italian newspaper \"Il Giornale\" a confidential letter dated December 4, 2001 which Schulenburg (among others) had sent to Cardinal Sodano, the then Secretary of State at the Vatican, reprising reservations over the historicity of Juan Diego.\n\nPartly in response to these and other issues, the Congregation for the Causes of Saints (the body within the Catholic Church with oversight of the process of approving candidates for sainthood) reopened the historical phase of the investigation in 1998, and in November of that year declared itself satisfied with the results. Following the canonization in 2002, the Catholic Church considers the question closed.\n\nThe first written account to be published of the Guadalupe event was a theological exegesis hailing Mexico as the New Jerusalem and correlating Juan Diego with Moses at Mount Horeb and the Virgin with the mysterious Woman of the Apocalypse in chapter 12 of the Book of Revelation. Entitled \"Imagen de la Virgen Maria, Madre de Dios de Guadalupe, Milagrosamente aparecida en la Ciudad de México\" (Image of the Virgin Mary, Mother of God of Guadalupe, who miraculously appeared in the City of Mexico), it was published in Spanish in Mexico City in 1648 after a prolonged gestation. The author was a Mexican-born Spanish priest, Miguel Sánchez, who asserted in his introduction (\"Fundamento de la historia\") that his account of the apparitions was based on documentary sources (few, and only vaguely alluded to) and on an oral tradition which he calls \"antigua, uniforme y general\" (ancient, consistent and widespread). The book is structured as a theological examination of the meaning of the apparitions to which is added a description of the tilma and of the sanctuary, accompanied by a description of seven miracles associated with the cult, the last of which related to a devastating inundation of Mexico City in the years 1629–1634. Although the work inspired panegyrical sermons preached in honour of the Virgin of Guadalupe between 1661 and 1766, it was not popular and was rarely reprinted. Shorn of its devotional and scriptural matter and with a few additions, Sánchez' account was republished in 1660 by a Jesuit priest from Puebla named Mateo de la Cruz, whose book, entitled \"Relación de la milagrosa aparición de la Santa Virgen de Guadalupe de México\" (\"Account of the miraculous apparition of the Holy Image of the Virgin of Guadalupe of Mexico\"), was soon reprinted in Spain (1662), and served greatly to spread knowledge of the cult.\n\nThe second-oldest published account is known by the opening words of its long title: \"Huei tlamahuiçoltica\" (\"The great event\"). It was published in Nahuatl by the then vicar of the hermitage at Guadalupe, Luis Lasso de la Vega, in 1649. In four places in the introduction, he announced his authorship of all or part of the text, a claim long received with varying degrees of incredulity because of the text's consummate grasp of a form of classical Nahuatl dating from the mid-16th century, the command of which Lasso de la Vega neither before nor after left any sign. The complete work comprises several elements including a brief biography of Juan Diego and, most famously, a highly wrought and ceremonious account of the apparitions known from its opening words as the \"Nican Mopohua\" (\"Here it is told\"). Despite the variations in style and content which mark the various elements, an exclusively textual analysis by three American investigators published in 1998 provisionally (a) assigned the entire work to the same author or authors, (b) saw no good reason to strip de la Vega of the authorship role he had claimed, and (c) of the three possible explanations for the close link between Sánchez's work and the \"Huei tlamahuiçoltica\", opted for a dependence of the latter upon the former which, however, was said to be indicated rather than proved. Whether the role to be attributed to Lasso de la Vega was creative, editorial or redactional remains an open question. Nevertheless, the broad consensus among Mexican historians (both ecclesiastical and secular) has long been, and remains, that the \"Nican Mopohua\" dates from as early as the mid-16th century and (so far as it is attributed to any author) that the likeliest hypothesis as to authorship is that Antonio Valeriano wrote it, or at least had a hand in it.The \"Nican Mopohua\" was not reprinted or translated in full into Spanish until 1929, although an incomplete translation had been published in 1895 and Becerra Tanco's 1675 account (see next entry) has close affinities with it.\n\nThe third work to be published was written by Luis Becerra Tanco who professed to correct some errors in the two previous accounts. Like Sánchez a Mexican-born Spanish diocesan priest, Becerra Tanco ended his career as professor of astrology and mathematics at the Royal and Pontifical University of Mexico. As first published in Mexico City in 1666, Becerra Tanco's work was entitled \"Origen milagroso del Santuario de Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe\" (\"Miraculous origin of the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Guadalupe\") and it gave an account of the apparitions mainly taken from de la Cruz' summary (see entry [1], above). The text of the pamphlet was incorporated into the evidence given to a canonical inquiry conducted in 1666, the proceedings of which are known as the \"Informaciones Jurídicas de 1666\" (see next entry). A revised and expanded edition of the pamphlet (drawing more obviously on the \"Nican Mopohua\") was published posthumously in 1675 as \"Felicidad de Mexico\" and again in 1685 (in Seville, Spain). Republished in Mexico in 1780 and (as part of a collection of texts) republished in Spain in 1785, it became the preferred source for the apparition narrative until displaced by the \"Nican Mopohua\" which gained a new readership from the Spanish translation published by Primo Velázquez in Mexico in 1929 (becoming thereafter the narrative of choice). Becerra Tanco, as Sánchez before him, confirms the absence of any documentary source for the Guadalupe event in the official diocesan records, and asserts that knowledge of it depends on the oral tradition handed on by the natives and recorded by them first in paintings and later in an alphabetized Nahuatl. More precisely, Becerra Tanco claimed that before 1629 he had himself heard \"cantares\" (or memory songs) sung by the natives at Guadalupe celebrating the apparitions, and that he had seen among the papers of Fernando de Alva Ixtlilxochitl (1578?–1650) (i) a \"mapa\" (or pictographic codex) which covered three centuries of native history, ending with the apparition at Tepeyac, and (ii) a manuscript book written in alphabetized Nahuatl by an Indian which described all five apparitions. In a separate section entitled \"Testificación\" he names five illustrious members of the ecclesiastical and secular elite from whom he personally had received an account of the tradition – quite apart from his Indian sources (whom he does not name).\n\nThe fourth in time (but not in date of publication) is the \"Informaciones Jurídicas de 1666\" already mentioned. As its name indicates, it is a collection of sworn testimonies. These were taken down in order to support an application to Rome for liturgical recognition of the Guadalupe event. The collection includes reminiscences in the form of sworn statements by informants (many of them of advanced age, including eight Indians from Cuauhtitlán) who claimed to be transmitting accounts of the life and experiences of Juan Diego which they had received from parents, grandparents or others who had known or met him. The substance of the testimonies was reported by Florencia in chapter 13 of his work \"Estrella de el Norte de México\" (see next entry). Until very recently the only source for the text was a copy dating from 1737 of the translation made into Spanish which itself was first published in 1889. An original copy of the translation (dated April 14, 1666) was discovered by Eduardo Chávez Sánchex in July 2001 as part of his researches in the archives of the Basilica de Guadalupe.\n\nThe last to be published was \"Estrella de el Norte de México\" by Francisco de Florencia, a Jesuit priest. This was published in Mexico in 1688 and then in Barcelona and Madrid, Spain, in 1741 and 1785, respectively. Florencia, while applauding Sánchez's theological meditations in themselves, considered that they broke the thread of the story. Accordingly, his account of the apparitions follows that of Mateo de la Cruz's abridgement. Although he identified various Indian documentary sources as corroborating his account (including materials used and discussed by Becerra Tanco, as to which see the preceding entry), Florencia considered that the cult's authenticity was amply proved by the tilma itself, and by what he called a \"constant tradition from fathers to sons . . so firm as to be an irrefutable argument\". Florencia had on loan from the famous scholar and polymath Carlos de Sigüenza y Góngora two such documentary sources, one of which – the \"antigua relación\" (or, old account) – he discussed in sufficient detail to reveal that it was parallel to but not identical with any of the materials in the \"Huei tlamahuiçoltica\". So far as concerns the life of Juan Diego (and of Juan Bernardino) after the apparitions, the \"antigua relación\" reported circumstantial details which embellish rather than add to what was already known. The other documentary source of Indian origin in Florencia's temporary possession was the text of a memory song said to have been composed by Don Placido, lord of Azcapotzalco, on the occasion of the solemn transfer of the Virgin's image to Tepeyac in 1531 – this he promised to insert later on in his history, but never did.\n\nLeaving aside any question as to the reality of supernatural events as such, the primary doubts about the historicity of Juan Diego (and the Guadalupe event itself) arise from the silence of those major sources who would be expected to have mentioned him, including, in particular, Bishop Juan de Zumárraga and the earliest ecclesiastical historians who reported the spread of the Catholic faith among the Indians in the early decades after the capture of Tenochtítlan in 1521. Despite references in near-contemporary sources which do attest a mid-16th-century Marian cult attached to a miraculous image of the Virgin at a shrine at Tepeyac under the title of Our Lady of Guadalupe, and despite the weight of oral tradition concerning Juan Diego and the apparitions (which, at the most, spans less than four generations before being reduced to writing), the fundamental objection of this silence of core 16th-century sources remains a perplexing feature of the history of the cult which has, nevertheless, continued to grow outside Mexico and the Americas. The first writer to address this problem of the silence of the sources was Francisco de Florencia in chapter 12 of his book \"Estrella de el norte de Mexico\" (see previous section). However, it was not until 1794 that the argument from silence was presented to the public in detail by someone – Juan Bautista Muñoz – who clearly did not believe in the historicity of Juan Diego or of the apparitions. Substantially the same argument was publicized in updated form at the end of the 19th and 20th centuries in reaction to renewed steps taken by the ecclesiastical authorities to defend and promote the cult through the coronation of the Virgin in 1895 and the beatification of Juan Diego in 1990.\n\nThe silence of the sources can be examined by reference to two main periods: (i) 1531–1556 and (ii) 1556–1606 which, for convenience, may loosely be termed (i) Zumárraga's silence, and (ii) the Franciscan silence. Despite the accumulation of evidence by the start of the 17th century (including allusions to the apparitions and the miraculous origin of the image), the phenomenon of silence in the sources persists well into the second decade of that century, by which time the silence ceases to be prima facie evidence that there was no tradition of the Guadalupe event before the publication of the first narrative account of it in 1648. For example, Bernardo de Balbuena wrote a poem while in Mexico City in 1602 entitled \"La Grandeza Mexicana\" in which he mentions all the cults and sanctuaries of any importance in Mexico City except Guadalupe, and Antonio de Remesal published in 1620 a general history of the New World which devoted space to Zumárraga but was silent about Guadalupe.\n\nPeriod (i) extends from the date of the alleged apparitions down to 1556, by which date there first emerges clear evidence of a Marian cult (a) located in an already existing ermita or oratory at Tepeyac, (b) known under the name Guadalupe, (c) focussed on a painting, and (d) believed to be productive of miracles (especially miracles of healing). This first period itself divides into two unequal sub-periods either side of the year 1548 when Bishop Zumárraga died.\n\nThe later sub-period can be summarily disposed of, for it is almost entirely accounted for by the delay between Zumárraga's death on June 3, 1548 and the arrival in Mexico of his successor, Archbishop Alonso de Montúfar, on June 23, 1554. During this interval there was lacking not only a bishop in Mexico City (the only local source of authority over the cult of the Virgin Mary and over the cult of the saints), but also an officially approved resident at the ermita – Juan Diego having died in the same month as Zumárraga, and no resident priest having been appointed until the time of Montúfar. In the circumstances, it is not surprising that a cult at Tepeyac (whatever its nature) should have fallen into abeyance. Nor is it a matter for surprise that a cult failed to spring up around Juan Diego's tomb at this time. The tomb of the saintly fray Martín de Valencia (the leader of the twelve pioneering Franciscan priests who had arrived in New Spain in 1524) was opened for veneration many times for more than thirty years after his death in 1534 until it was found, on the last occasion, to be empty. But, dead or alive, fray Martín had failed to acquire a reputation as a miracle-worker.\n\nTurning to the years before Zumárraga's death, there is no known document securely dated to the period 1531 to 1548 which mentions Juan Diego, a cult to the Virgin Mary at Tepeyac, or the Guadalupe event. The lack of any contemporary evidence linking Zumárraga with the Guadalupe event is particularly noteworthy, but, of the surviving documents attributable to him, only his will can be said to be just such a document as might have been expected to mention an ermita or the cult. In this will Zumárraga left certain movable and personal items to the cathedral, to the infirmary of the monastery of St. Francis, and to the Conceptionist convent (all in Mexico City); divided his books between the library of the monastery of St Francis in Mexico City and the guesthouse of a monastery in his home-town of Durango, Spain; freed his slaves and disposed of his horses and mules; made some small bequests of corn and money; and gave substantial bequests in favour of two charitable institutions founded by him, one in Mexico City and one in Veracruz. Even without any testamentary notice, Zumárraga's lack of concern for the ermita at Tepeyac is amply demonstrated by the fact that the building said to have been erected there in 1531 was, at best, a simple adobe structure, built in two weeks and not replaced until 1556 (by Archbishop Montúfar, who built another adobe structure on the same site). Among the factors which might explain a change of attitude by Zumárraga to a cult which he seemingly ignored after his return from Spain in October 1534, the most prominent is a vigorous inquisition conducted by him between 1536 and 1539 specifically to root out covert devotion among Indians to pre-Christian deities. The climax of the sixteen trials in this period (involving 27 mostly high-ranking Indians) was the burning at the stake of Don Carlos Ometochtli, lord of the wealthy and important city of Texcoco, in 1539 – an event so fraught with potential for social and political unrest that Zumárraga was officially reprimanded by the Council of the Indies in Spain and subsequently relieved of his inquisitorial functions (in 1543). In such a climate and at such a time as that he can hardly have shown favour to a cult which had been launched without any prior investigation, had never been subjected to a canonical inquiry, and was focussed on a cult object with particular appeal to Indians at a site arguably connected with popular devotion to a pre-Christian female deity. Leading Franciscans were notoriously hostile to – or at best suspicious of – Guadalupe throughout the second half of the 16th century precisely on the grounds of practices arguably syncretic or worse. This is evident in the strong reaction evinced in 1556 when Zumárraga's successor signified his official support for the cult by rebuilding the ermita, endowing the sanctuary, and establishing a priest there the previous year (see next sub-section). It is reasonable to conjecture that had Zumárraga shown any similar partiality for the cult from 1534 onwards (in itself unlikely, given his role as Inquisitor from 1535), he would have provoked a similar public rebuke.\n\nThe second main period during which the sources are silent extends for the half century after 1556 when the then Franciscan provincial, fray Francisco de Bustamante, publicly rebuked Archbishop Montúfar for promoting the Guadalupe cult. In this period, three Franciscan friars (among others) were writing histories of New Spain and of the peoples (and their cultures) who either submitted to or were defeated by the Spanish Conquistadores. A fourth Franciscan friar, Toribio de Benevente (known as Motolinía), who had completed his history as early as 1541, falls outside this period, but his work was primarily in the Tlaxcala-Puebla area. One explanation for the Franciscans' particular antagonism to the Marian cult at Tepeyac is that (as Torquemada asserts in his \"Monarquía indiana\", Bk.X, cap.28) it was they who had initiated it in the first place, before realising the risks involved. In due course this attitude was gradually relaxed, but not until some time after a change in spiritual direction in New Spain attributed to a confluence of factors including (i) the passing away of the first Franciscan pioneers with their distinct brand of evangelical millennarianism compounded of the ideas of Joachim de Fiore and Desiderius Erasmus (the last to die were Motolinía in 1569 and Andrés de Olmos in 1571), (ii) the arrival of Jesuits in 1572 (founded by Ignatius Loyola and approved as a religious order in 1540), and (iii) the assertion of the supremacy of the bishops over the Franciscans and the other mendicant Orders by the Third Mexican Council of 1585, thus signalling the end of jurisdictional arguments dating from the arrival of Zumárraga in Mexico in December 1528. Other events largely affecting society and the life of the Church in New Spain in the second half of the 16th century cannot be ignored in this context: depopulation of the Indians through excessive forced labour and the great epidemics of 1545, 1576–1579 and 1595, and the Council of Trent, summoned in response to the pressure for reform, which sat in twenty-five sessions between 1545 and 1563 and which reasserted the basic elements of the Catholic faith and confirmed the continuing validity of certain forms of popular religiosity (including the cult of the saints). Conflict over an evangelical style of Catholicism promoted by Desiderius Erasmus, which Zumárraga and the Franciscan pioneers favoured, was terminated by the Catholic Church's condemnation of Erasmus' works in the 1550s. The themes of Counter-reformation Catholicism were strenuously promoted by the Jesuits, who enthusiastically took up the cult of Guadalupe in Mexico.\n\nThe basis of the Franciscans' disquiet and even hostility to Guadalupe was their fear that the evangelization of the Indians had been superficial, that the Indians had retained some of their pre-Christian beliefs, and, in the worst case, that Christian baptism was a cloak for persisting in pre-Christian devotions. These concerns are to be found in what was said or written by leading Franciscans such as fray Francisco de Bustamante (involved in a dispute on this topic with Archbishop Montúfar in 1556, as mentioned above); fray Bernardino de Sahagún (whose \"Historia general de las cosas de Nueva España\" was completed in 1576/7 with an appendix on surviving superstitions in which he singles out Guadalupe as a prime focus of suspect devotions); fray Jerónimo de Mendieta (whose \"Historia eclesiástica indiana\" was written in the 1590s); and fray Juan de Torquemada who drew heavily on Mendieta's unpublished history in his own work known as the \"Monarquía indiana\" (completed in 1615 and published in Seville, Spain, that same year). There was no uniform approach to the problem and some Franciscans were less reticent than others. Bustamante publicly condemned the cult of Our Lady of Guadalupe outright precisely because it was centred on a painting (allegedly said to have been painted \"yesterday\" by an Indian) to which miraculous powers were attributed, whereas Sahagún expressed deep reservations as to the Marian cult at Tepeyac without mentioning the cult image at all. Mendieta made no reference to the Guadalupe event although he paid particular attention to Marian and other apparitions and miraculous occurrences in Book IV of his history – none of which, however, had evolved into established cults centred on a cult object. Mendieta also drew attention to the Indians' subterfuge of concealing pre-Christian cult objects inside or behind Christian statues and crucifixes in order to mask the true focus of their devotion. Torquemada repeated, with variations, an established idea that churches had been deliberately erected to Christian saints at certain locations (Tepeyac among them) in order to channel pre-Christian devotions towards Christian cults.\n\nOnly when very particular conditions obtain can legitimate inferences be drawn from silence in contemporary sources. The doubtful relevance of silence as to the Guadalupe event in certain documents from the time of Zumárraga has already been noted under section 6.2.2 above, and Miguel Sánchez himself preached a sermon in 1653 on the Immaculate Conception in which he cites chapter 12 of the Book of Revelation but makes no mention of Guadalupe.\n\nBoth the author of the \"Nican Mopectana\" and Miguel Sánchez explain that the Virgin's immediate purpose in appearing to Juan Diego (and to don Juan, the seer of the cult of los Remedios) was evangelical – to draw the peoples of the New World to faith in Jesus Christ:\n\nIn the beginning when the Christian faith had just arrived here in the land that today is called New Spain, in many ways the heavenly lady, the consummate Virgin Saint Mary, cherished, aided and defended the local people so that they might entirely give themselves and adhere to the faith . . in order that they might invoke her fervently and trust in her fully, she saw fit to reveal herself for the first time to two [Indian] people here.\nThe continuing importance of this theme was emphasised in the years leading up to the canonization of Juan Diego. It received further impetus in the Pastoral Letter issued by Cardinal Rivera in February 2002 on the eve of the canonization, and was asserted by John Paul II in his homily at the canonization ceremony itself when he called Juan Diego \"a model of evangelization perfectly inculturated\" – an allusion to the implantation of the Catholic Church within indigenous culture through the medium of the Guadalupe event.\n\nIn the 17th century, Miguel Sánchez interpreted the Virgin as addressing herself specifically to the Indians, while noting that Juan Diego himself regarded all the residents of New Spain as his spiritual heirs, the inheritors of the holy image. The Virgin's own words to Juan Diego as reported by Sánchez were equivocal: she wanted a place at Tepeyac where she can show herself:\n\nas a compassionate mother to you and yours, to my devotees, to those who should seek me for the relief of their necessities.\n\nBy contrast, the words of the Virgin's initial message as reported in \"Nican Mopohua\" are, in terms, specific to all residents of New Spain without distinction, while including others, too:\n\nI am the compassionate mother of you and of all you people here in this land, and of the other various peoples who love me, who cry out to me . .\n\nThe special but not exclusive favour of the Virgin to the indigenous peoples is highlighted in Lasso de la Vega's introduction:\n\nyou wish us your children to cry out to [you], especially the local people, the humble commoners to whom you revealed yourself \n\nAt the conclusion of the miracle cycle in the \"Nican Mopectana\", there is a broad summary which embraces the different elements in the emergent new society \"the local people and the Spaniards [Caxtilteca] and all the different peoples who called on and followed her\".\n\nThe role of Juan Diego as both representing and confirming the human dignity of the indigenous Indian populations and of asserting their right to claim a place of honour in the New World is therefore embedded in the earliest narratives, nor did it thereafter become dormant awaiting rediscovery in the 20th century. Archbishop Lorenzana, in a sermon of 1770, applauded the evident fact that the Virgin signified honour to the Spaniards (by stipulating for the title \"Guadalupe\"), to the Indians (by choosing Juan Diego), and to those of mixed race (by the colour of her face). In another place in the sermon he noted a figure of eight on the Virgin's robe and said it represented the two worlds that she was protecting (the old and the new). This aim of harmonising and giving due recognition to the different cultures in Mexico rather than homogenizing them was also evident in the iconography of Guadalupe in the 18th century as well as in the celebrations attending the coronation of the image of Guadalupe in 1895 at which a place was given to 28 Indians from Cuautitlán (Juan Diego's birthplace) wearing traditional costume. The prominent role accorded indigenous participants in the actual canonization ceremony (not without criticism by liturgical purists) constituted one of the most striking features of those proceedings.\n\nTo the spiritual and social significance of Juan Diego within the Guadalupe event, there can be added a third aspect which has only recently begun to receive explicit recognition, although it is implicit in the two aspects already discussed: namely, the rights of indigenous people to have their cultural traditions and way of life honoured and protected against encroachment. All three themes were fully present in the homily of Pope John Paul II at the canonization of Juan Diego on July 31, 2002, but it was the third which found its most striking expression in his rallying call: \"¡México necesita a sus indígenas y los indígenas necesitan a México!\" (Mexico needs the indigenous people, the indigenous people need Mexico). In this regard, Juan Diego had previously been acclaimed at the beatification ceremony in 1990 as the representative of an entire people – all the indigenous who accepted the Christian Gospel in New Spain – and, indeed, as the \"protector and advocate of the indigenous people\".\n\nIn the process of industrial and economic development that was observable in many regions of the world after the Second World War, the rights of indigenous peoples to their land and to the unobstructed expression of their language, culture and traditions came under pressure or were, at best, ignored. Industrialization (led by the petroleum industry) made the problem as acute in Mexico as elsewhere. The Church had begun to warn about the erosion of indigenous cultures in the 1960s, but this was generally in the context of \"the poor\", \"the under-privileged\", and \"ethnic minorities\", often being tied to land reform. The Latin American episcopate, at its Second and Third General Conferences held at Medellin, Colombia (November 1968) and at Puebla, Mexico (January 1979) respectively, made the transition from treating indigenous populations as people in need of special care and attention to recognising a duty to promote, and defend the dignity of, indigenous cultures. Against this background, it was Pope John Paul II, starting with an address to the indigenous peoples of Mexico in 1979, who raised the recognition of indigenous rights to the level of a major theme distinct from poverty and land reform. The first time he linked Juan Diego to this theme, however, was not on his first Apostolic journey to Mexico in 1979, but in a homily at a Mass in Popayán, Colombia, on July 4, 1986. Numerous Papal journeys to Latin America in this period were marked by meetings with indigenous peoples at which this theme was presented and developed.\n\nAlso at about this time, the attention of the world community (as manifested in the UN) began to focus on the same theme, similarly re-calibrating its concern for minorities into concern for the rights of indigenous peoples. In 1982 the Working Group on Indigenous Populations of the Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights (then called Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities) was established by a decision of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, and in 1985 work began on drafting a declaration of rights (a process which lasted 22 years). In due course, 1993 was proclaimed the International Year of the World's Indigenous People. The following year, the United Nations General Assembly launched the International Decade of the World's Indigenous Peoples (1995–2004) and then, on September 13, 2007, it adopted a Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.\n\n"}
{"id": "21415063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21415063", "title": "Justitia civilis", "text": "Justitia civilis\n\nJustitia civilis or \"things external\" is defined by Christian theologians as the class of acts in which fallen man retains his ability to perform both good and evil moral acts. This means that he can be kind and just, and fulfill his social duties in a manner to secure the approbation of his fellow-men. It is not meant that the state of mind in which these acts are performed, or the motives by which they are determined, are such as to meet the approbation of an infinitely God; but simply that these acts, as to the matter of them, are prescribed by the moral law.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096598", "title": "Kalimayai", "text": "Kalimayai\n\nKalimayai is the illusion caused by the evil spirit of Kali Yukam, (\"not the Hindu deity kali\") according to Akilattirattu Ammanai the source of Ayyavazhi mythology.\n\n"}
{"id": "7144080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7144080", "title": "Kindeva", "text": "Kindeva\n\nKindevas are a race of human-like beings mentioned in the Hindu Puranas. They are said to have a human-like appearance, but also deva-like qualities, hence the term kindeva.\n\nKindevas look human but they require no sleep, no food, they have no body odor, no sweat, no fatigue. Upon seeing one of these beings one may ask \"is it a deva?\", but they are actually a race of human beings existing on another world or loka.\n\n"}
{"id": "18448016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18448016", "title": "Kshullak", "text": "Kshullak\n\nA kshullak (or kshullaka, lit. small or junior) is a junior Digambar Jain monk. A kshullak wears two garments as opposed to a full monk who wears no clothes. Specifically a Kshullaka is a Shravaka of the highest degree at 11th Pratima.\n\nA kshullak is sometimes referred to by the earlier title Varni, even though Varni corresponds to the seventh Pratima. \n\nWell known kshullakas include:\n\n\nA Digambara Jain shravaka at the highest rank of 11th pratima is either a kshullaka or an ailaka. He is just one step below a full muni. His conduct is prescribed in Vasunandi Sravakachara and Lati Samhita.\n\nA kshullaka wears a loin cloth (kaupina) and a white rectangular cloth as a wrap. An ailak uses only a loin cloth.\n\nA kshullaka may live in a house or may be a wanderer. He may eat food placed in his palms, or from a container. He eats once a day. He may beg from a single house or from multiple ones.\n\nA kshullaka may keep a yajnopavita and a shikha. In Jain tradition, Narada muni is assumed to be a Kshullak Jain monk.\n\nKolhapur in Maharashtra was also once known as Kshullakapur because of the presence of a large number of Jain monks during the Shilahara rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "5358353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5358353", "title": "Kurozumikyō", "text": "Kurozumikyō\n\nKurozumikyō (黒住教), literally \"the Teachings of Kurozumi,\" is a Japanese religion largely derived from Shinto roots and founded in 1846. The founder, a Shinto priest by the name of Kurozumi, had a Divine union with Amaterasu, Goddess of the sun and chief \"Kami\" in the Shinto pantheon, in 1814.\n\nThe core beliefs of the sect center around this idea, and the assertion that Amaterasu is the source of all light and life, and creator of all the universe. Mankind is believed to be able to tap into the divine power of Amaterasu in order to heal the sick and perform other miracles. The sect is based in Okayama, and focuses on the virtues of sincerity, selflessness, hard work, and affirmation of the established social order.\n\nThough Kurozumi's divine experience occurred in 1814, the sect was not formally organized until 1846, when the priest and senior disciples assembled the \"Osadamegaki\", putting into writing all the beliefs, values, and laws of the sect. Originally, their religious and missionary activity was tolerated by the feudal Okayama lord, as it did not threaten his power or conflict greatly with the religious beliefs already practiced in the area.\n\nBy the time of the Meiji Restoration in 1868, the sect had gained followers in Kyushu and western and southwestern Honshū, all the way up to Tokyo. It gained independence from the Board of Shinto Affairs in 1876, and established its own Shinto shrine, the Munetada Shrine, in Okayama in 1885. However, the Kurozumikyō sect failed to adapt as the nation modernized, and so it stagnated. As of 1978, the group claimed 218,000 followers.\n\nMuneharu Kurozumi, the Sixth Chief Patriarch of Kurozumikyō, is affiliated to the openly revisionist lobby Nippon Kaigi. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "27145134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27145134", "title": "List of Coptic New Testament manuscripts", "text": "List of Coptic New Testament manuscripts\n\nThe Coptic version is one of the earliest and the most important version of the New Testament. To the present day survived almost 1000 Coptic manuscripts of the New Testament. Majority of them represent Sahidic and Bohairic dialects. Only very few manuscripts represent the dialects of the Middle Egypt.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27533721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27533721", "title": "List of countries by Zoroastrian population", "text": "List of countries by Zoroastrian population\n\nA 2004 estimate gives a range of 124,000 to 190,000, \nroughly half of them are in India (made up of the Parsi and Irani subgroups) and Iran.\n\nThe figures below are based on ethnographic research on the number of Parsis and other Zoroastrian ethnoreligious communities.\n\nThere are also minorities of converted Zoroastrians in the following countries: \n\nIn 2012, the \"FEZANA Journal\", a quarterly publication of the Federation of Zoroastrian Associations of North America (FEZANA), published a demographic picture of Zorastrians around the world and a comparison with a similar study done in the year, 2004.\n\nBecause of the religion's strong ties to Kurdish culture, there has been a recent rebirth of Zoroastrianism. It's been estimated that as many as 100,000 to 200,000 people in Iraqi Kurdistan have converted to Zoroastrianism in 2015. Millions of Yezidis, Shabakis and Yarsanis live in Iraq and Iran who follow preislamic Mithraic and syncretic religions similar to and influenced by Zoroastrianism as well, and have been included as Zoroastrian under some research methods and population studies due to their similarities.\n\n"}
{"id": "20761741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20761741", "title": "List of oldest synagogues", "text": "List of oldest synagogues\n\nThe designation oldest synagogue in the world requires careful definition. Many very old synagogues have been discovered in archaeological digs. Some synagogues have been destroyed and rebuilt several times on the same site, so, while the site or congregation may be ancient, the building may be modern. Still other very old synagogue buildings exist, but have been used for many centuries as churches, mosques, or for other purposes. And some very old synagogues have been in continuous use as synagogues for many centuries.\n\n\nAccording to legend, El Ghriba synagogue in Djerba, Tunisia, the building was first built in 586 BCE or 70 BCE, which would make it the oldest synagogue still standing and in continuous use in the World. Two of the claimants to be the oldest structures still standing which were built as synagogues are the Old Synagogue in Erfurt, Germany, which was built c.1100 (see below), and Santa María la Blanca, built in Toledo, Spain in 1190. However neither has been used as a synagogue for centuries. The oldest still active synagogue in the world is the Old New Synagogue of Prague, Czech Republic, built in 1270s. The Ben Ezra Synagogue of Cairo has the honor of being the longest serving synagogue in the world, having continuously served as one from 1025 AD until the mid 20th century. Owing to the migration of nearly all of Egypt's Jews to Israel, today the monument functions as a museum.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe oldest of India's synagogue buildings can be found in the state of Kerala, where synagogue construction began during the medieval period. Whereas Kerala’s first Jewish houses of prayer said to be from the eleventh through the 13th centuries perished long ago as a consequence of natural disasters, enemy attacks, or the abandonment of buildings when congregations shifted, as did the earliest confirmed synagogue in Kochangadi authenticated to 1344 by a surviving building inscription now found in the courtyard of the Paradesi synagogue in Kochi's Jew Town, those originating from the 16th and 17th centuries subsist. These extant synagogues, though altered over time, include not only the oldest found on the Indian subcontinent but in the British Commonwealth.\n\nThe consensus among historians based on a compilation of limited recorded history and a mélange of oral narratives is that first synagogues in Kerala were not built until the medieval period. Various Kerala Jews and the scholars who have studied the community believe that the earliest synagogues in the region date to the early 11th century. According to a narrative, a Kerala Jew by the name of Joseph Rabban who accepted on behalf of his community copper plates granting the local Jews a set of privileges by the Hindu King Bhaskara Ravi Varman was also given wood by his Highness for the erection of a synagogue around 1000. While no physical evidence of this and any other similar period building survives, study of the literature, Jewish folksongs, and narratives supports the notion that synagogues likely stood in Malabar Coast towns, places now within the modern-day State of Kerala, from this epoch. A portion of these medieval-period buildings perished when the Kerala Jews had to leave them behind under the threat of persecution by the Moors and the Portuguese or as a result of natural disasters. The balance was rebuilt as a consequence of naturally occurring or intentionally set fires, modernization efforts, or assorted other variables.\n\n\nIn Israel, archaeologists have uncovered many ruins of synagogues from 2000 or more years ago, placing them in the time before the 70 CE destruction of the Second Temple in Jerusalem.\nOther ancient post-70 CE synagogues are:\n\n\n\nThe Musmeah Yeshua Synagogue in Rangoon (Yangon) was originally built in 1854.\n\nLocated between shops and traders, the synagogue is still operating for the small community of Burmese Jews who live in Rangoon.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome 100 meters NE of the town square, the Rossmuehl Synagogue served Korneuburg's Jewish community until the Expulsion of 1420. The property was converted to storage and various plans have been put forth to renovate the structure. Unfortunately, the Austrian Jewish Community (IKG) has shown no interest in assisting local groups and government agencies in the preservation of the structure, which is one of the oldest synagogues in Europe.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Great Synagogue in Copenhagen, Denmark was built in 1833.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Touro Synagogue in Newport, Rhode Island, is the oldest Jewish house of worship in North America that is still standing. It was built in 1759 for the Jeshuat Israel congregation, which was established in 1658.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31932530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31932530", "title": "M. B. Patil", "text": "M. B. Patil\n\nMallanagouda Basanagouda Patil (born 7 October 1964) popularly known as M. B. Patil is an Indian politician from Vijayapur who was Minister for Water Resources in the Government of Karnataka headed by Shri. Siddaramaiah. He is former member of the Lok Sabha and is being elected for the fifth time as a member of Karnataka Legislative Assembly. He is also currently the president of BLDE Association which provides education to the rural masses. He has led various water and development projects. He is the elder son of Shri B.M.Patil, a politician and an educationist.\n\nM. B Patil graduated in Bachelors in Engineering, Civil Engineering at the BLDEA's Vachana Pitamaha P G Halakatti College of Engineering, Vijayapur.\n\nM. B. Patil is the President of BLDEA Autonomous University, Vijayapur. He is also the President of BLDEA Association, which offers education from primary education to higher education in various streams, including medical and engineering. BLDEA owns and runs 75 institutions in all. M. B. Patil held the position of General Secretary of BLDEA institution between 1990 and 2005 and has been the president of BLDEA since 2005.\n\nM. B. Patil made his foray into politics in the year 1991 after the demise of his father. He has been elected as a member of legislative assembly four times and once as a member of parliament. He is a member of AICC, KPCC and a member of coordination and executive committees of KPCC.\n\nIn 2013, when Congress Party formed the government in Karnataka, M. B. Patil was sworn in as the Irrigation Minister. When beneficiary states filed an appeal in the higher court questioning Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal verdict, the irrigation ministry helmed by M. B. Patil, took necessary technical and legal measures required for presenting an effective argument before the tribunal and as a result Karnataka was granted permission to increase the height of Almatti dam from the present 519.6 metres to 524.26 metres. M. B. Patil has taken initiative to implement the world’s biggest micro irrigation project in the State . He is growing as a popular leader among Lingayat community only after Shri. B. S. Yeddyurappa at current times. He is considered to be one of the contenders for the post of Chief Minister of Karnataka in future.\n\nM. B. Patil is married to Asha Patil and has two sons, Basanagouda Patil and Dhruv Patil. He is a regular practitioner of yoga. He is known for his interest in reading history and philosophy. He is a passionate reader on Buddhism, Basava Philosophy and those ideologies that are well known propagators of peace and equality. He is a follower of Lingayatism and believes it should be declared its own religion, distinct from Hinduism.\n\n"}
{"id": "41121292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41121292", "title": "Margaret Mary Vojtko", "text": "Margaret Mary Vojtko\n\nMargaret Mary Vojtko (January 15, 1930 – September 1, 2013) was an American adjunct professor of French at Duquesne University. Her death caused controversy at Duquesne and prompted conversations about unions and the role of adjunct faculty at American universities.\n\nMargaret Mary Paula Vojtko was born on January 15, 1930 to Catholic Slovak parents. She had five older siblings. Her father worked at Homestead Steel Works, a large steel mill once owned by Andrew Carnegie. Her father belonged to a labor union that would later become the United Steelworkers. Her mother died when she was seven, and her older sister Anne helped raise her. Growing up, Margaret spoke mostly Slovak at home. She attended a high school run by the Vincentian Sisters of Charity and became a secretary at the University of Pittsburgh after graduation; at the time, she wanted to be a nun, although she later abandoned this plan. She remained a traditionalist Catholic throughout her life, however, and opposed the reforms of the Second Vatican Council.\n\nAfter her father's death in 1957, Vojtko attended the University of Pittsburgh, earning a bachelor's degree in 1967 and a master's in 1970. In the mid-1970s, she began working on a doctoral degree from The Catholic University of America. She never completed her dissertation, which focused on the history of Homestead. She received a nursing degree in 1987. \n\nVojtko taught courses in French and medieval literature at Carnegie Mellon University and Indiana University – Purdue University Fort Wayne before being hired at Duquesne in 1988. She taught at Duquesne for 25 years as an adjunct faculty member. She voted with a majority of other liberal-arts adjunct faculty members to unionize under the purview of the United Steelworkers, who had also represented her father. Duquesne has not recognized the adjunct faculty members' union, arguing that the university's religious nature exempts it from the oversight of the National Labor Relations Board.\n\nOn April 2, 2013, Vojtko learned her teaching contract would not be renewed; she was instead offered a tutoring job that would have paid two thirds of what she made as an adjunct faculty member. Daniel Kovalik, an attorney for the United Steelworkers, was assisting Vojtko with a complaint to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission that the university had not rehired her because of her age or disability. In addition to her work as an academic, Vojtko did translation work on a freelance basis, including in Slovak. She spoke five languages besides English, having majored in French and Italian as an undergraduate and having gained familiarity with German and Latin.\n\nOn August 16, 2013, Vojtko suffered a large heart attack; she died two weeks later, on September 1, aged 83. She had previously been receiving treatment for cancer, and a reaction to pills she had been prescribed had caused her to have an earlier heart attack the previous year.\n\nAt the time of her death, she had recently become unemployed after Duquesne declined to extend her contract. Particular attention has been paid to the university's labor practices following her death. She was removed from campus by police and dismissed from her work after sleeping in her university office; she was unable to heat her home due to medical bills incurred through taking chemotherapy to treat her ovarian cancer; lack of pension benefits had forced her to continue working until the age of 83 on a full or nearly full-time basis. Vice President for University Advancement John Plante described reports that the university did nothing to help Ms. Vojtko as 'reckless' and 'mischaracterizations': \"Our defense is the truth. Mr. Kovalik has tried to frame this as an issue of human resources policy, but he is wrong...The support provided and offered to Margaret Mary Vojtko was broad, involving the Spiritan community, student housing, EAP, campus police, facilities management, and her faculty and staff colleagues.\" Rev. Daniel Walsh, a university chaplain, described reports of Vojtko's death as attempts to promote an 'alternative agenda' and said that she was provided with emergency housing on campus for a few weeks.\n\nKansas State University English professor Philip Nel was among those who faulted Duquesne for treating Vojtko unfairly, suggesting that the university's not providing her with health insurance contributed to her death. Representatives of the university defended their treatment of Vojtko, indicating that she had refused repeated offers of assistance from members of the university community. For a time, Vojtko lived in Laval House, a campus residence for priests. Her funeral mass was held at Epiphany Church in Pittsburgh.\n\n"}
{"id": "53663667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53663667", "title": "Marja'", "text": "Marja'\n\nIn Shia Islam, marjaʿ (; plural: \"marājiʿ\"), also known as a \"marjaʿ taqlīd\" or \"marjaʿ dīnī\" (), literally meaning \"source to imitate/follow\" or \"religious reference\", is a title given to the highest level Shia authority, a \"Grand Ayatollah\" with the authority to make legal decisions within the confines of Islamic law for followers and less-credentialed clerics. After the Qur'an and the prophets and imams, \"marājiʿ\" are the highest authority on religious laws in Usuli Shia Islam.\n\nCurrently, \"marājiʿ\" are accorded the title Grand Ayatollah ( \"Āyatullāh al-Uẓmà\"; \"Ayatollah Ozma\"), however when referring to one, the use of \"Ayatollah\" is not acceptable. Previously, the titles of Allamah (such as Allameh Tabatabaei, Allameh Majlesi, Allameh Hilli) and Imam (such as Imam Khomeini, Imam Rohani, Imam Shirazi and Imam Sadr) have also been used.\n\nFrom the perspective of jurisprudence, during the occultation of Muhammad al-Mahdi, Shiite clerics are his representatives, with responsibility for understanding and explaining Islamic religious jurisprudence.\n\nShiite authorities in the history of Shi'ism have an important role in the religious, political and social thought of their communities. One example is the fatwa of Mirza Mohammed Hassan Husseini Shirazi imposing sanctions on the use of tobacco during Qajar rule, which led to the abolition of the tobacco concession.\n\nThe \"shi\" of an ayatollah transpires when he becomes a celebrated figure in the \"hawza\" and his students and followers trust him in answering their questions, and ask him to publish a juristic book, the risālah ʿamalīyah—a manual of practical rulings arranged according to topics dealing with ritual purity, worship, social issues, business, and political affairs. The \"risālah\" contains an ayatollah's \"fatwas\" on different topics, according to his knowledge of the most authentic Islamic sources and their application to current life. Traditionally only the most renowned ayatollahs of the given time published a \"risālah\". Today, however, many ayatollahs of varying degrees of illustriousness have published one, while some of the renowned ones have refused to do so.\n\nWhere a difference in opinion exists between the \"marājiʿ\", each of them provides their own opinion and the \"Muqallid\" will follow his/her own \"marjaʿ's\" opinion on that subject. A mujtahid, i.e. someone who has completed advanced training (\"dars kharij\") in the hawza and has acquired the license to engage in ijtihad (\"ʾijāz al-ʾijtihād\") from one or several ayatollahs, is exempted from the requirement to follow a marjaʿ. However ijtihad is not always comprehensive and so a mujtahid may be an expert in one particular area of Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh) and exercise ijtihad therein, but follow a marjaʿ in other areas of fiqh.\n\nSeveral senior Grand Ayatollahs preside over \"hawza\"s, religious seminaries. The \"hawza\"s of Qom and Najaf are the preeminent seminary centers for the training of Shia clergymen. However, there are other smaller \"hawza\"s in other cities around the world, such as Karbala in Iraq, and Isfahan and Mashhad in Iran. \n\nThere are 86 Maraji living worldwide as of 2017, mainly in Najaf and Qom. The most prominent and popular of these include Ali Khamenai in Tehran, Ali al-Sistani, Muhammad al-Fayadh, Muhammad Saeed al-Hakim and Bashir al-Najafi in Najaf; and Hossein Vahid Khorasani, Mousa Shubairi Zanjani, Sayyid Sadeq Rohani, Lotfollah Safi Golpaygani, Naser Makarem Shirazi, Sadiq Hussaini Shirazi, Hossein Noori Hamedani and Abdollah Javadi-Amoli in Qom.\n\n"}
{"id": "599212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599212", "title": "Merv Griffin", "text": "Merv Griffin\n\nMervyn Edward Griffin Jr. (July 6, 1925 – August 12, 2007) was an American television host and media mogul. He began his career as a radio and big band singer who went on to appear in film and on Broadway. From 1965 to 1986, Griffin hosted his own talk show, \"The Merv Griffin Show\". He also created the internationally popular game shows \"Jeopardy!\" and \"Wheel of Fortune\" through his television production companies, Merv Griffin Enterprises and Merv Griffin Entertainment.\n\nGriffin was born July 6, 1925, in San Mateo, California, to Mervyn Edward Griffin, Sr., a stockbroker, and Rita Elizabeth Griffin (née Robinson), a homemaker. The family was Irish American. Raised as a Roman Catholic, Griffin started singing in his church choir as a boy, and by his teens was earning extra money as a church organist. His abilities as a pianist played a part in his early entry into show business.\n\nHe attended San Mateo High School, graduating in 1942, and continued to aid in financing the school. He attended San Mateo Junior College and then the University of San Francisco. He was a member of the international fraternity Tau Kappa Epsilon.\n\nDuring World War II, Griffin was declared 4F after failing several military physical examinations due to having a slight heart murmur. During the Korean War several years later, he was examined and deemed healthy enough to serve, but by that time was above age 26 and therefore exempt from the draft.\n\nGriffin started as a singer on radio at age 19, appearing on \"San Francisco Sketchbook\", a nationally syndicated program based at KFRC. Griffin was overweight as an adolescent and a young man, which disappointed some radio fans when they saw him in person. He wrote years later in his autobiography that originally there was a deliberate effort to keep the public from finding out how he looked. Embarrassed by the weight issue, Griffin resolved to change his appearance, losing 80 pounds in four months.\n\nFreddy Martin heard him on the radio show and asked Griffin to tour with his orchestra, which he did for four years.\n\nGriffin had an uncredited role as a radio announcer in the 1953 horror/science fiction classic \"The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms\".\n\nBy 1945, Griffin had earned enough money to form his own record label, Panda Records, which produced \"Songs by Merv Griffin\", the first U.S. album ever recorded on magnetic tape. In 1947, he had a 15-minute Monday–Friday singing program on KFRC in San Francisco.\n\nHe became increasingly popular with nightclub audiences, and his fame soared among the general public with his 1950 hit \"I've Got a Lovely Bunch of Coconuts\". The song reached the number one spot on the Hit Parade and sold three million copies.\n\nAt one of his nightclub performances, Griffin was discovered by Doris Day. Day arranged for a screen test at the Warner Bros. Studios for a role in \"\"By the Light of the Silvery Moon\". Griffin did not get the part, but the screen test led to supporting roles in other musical films such as \"So This Is Love\" in 1953. The film caused a minor controversy when Griffin shared an open mouthed kiss with Kathryn Grayson. The kiss was a first in Hollywood film history since the introduction of the Production Code in 1934.\n\nGriffin would go on to film more pictures (\"The Boy from Oklahoma\" and \"Phantom of the Rue Morgue\"), but soon became disillusioned with movie-making. Griffin bought his contract back from Warner Bros. and decided to devote his attention to a new medium: television.\n\nIn the summer of 1954, Merv Griffin and Betty Ann Grove sang & danced for a show called \"Summer Holiday\" (and \"Song Snapshots from a Summer Holiday\"). The premise of the show was a \"Live musical show with two singers simulating a trip to various places in the world.\" The show name had alternating titles for the same show, different nights, but were filled with the patter of songs and feet by the two hosts. Merv and Betty were brought together by Byron Paul, producer of \"The Jane Froman Show\", and Irving Mansfield, the show's creator. Mansfield remembered Merv for his singing in the Grace Moore picture and for his hit song, \"I've Got a Lovely Bunch of Coconuts.\" The producer of the show (Byron Paul) had already considered Miss Grove for the summer replacement show, but \"it was just a matter of finding a boy,\" Byron said. \"I'm quite excited. They're both young, fresh, work well together, work well independently. And I've never met two people who are easier to get along with.\" The show ran for one summer.\n\nIn March 2001, Griffin returned to singing with the release of the album \"It's Like a Dream\".\n\nFrom 1958 to 1962, Griffin hosted a game show produced by Mark Goodson and Bill Todman called \"Play Your Hunch\". The show appeared on all three networks, but primarily on NBC. He also hosted a prime time game show for ABC called \"Keep Talking\". Additionally, he substituted for a week for the vacationing Bill Cullen on \"The Price Is Right\", and also for Bud Collyer on \"To Tell the Truth\". In 1963, NBC offered him the opportunity to host a new game show, \"Word for Word\", which Griffin produced. He also produced \"Let's Play Post Office\" for NBC in 1965; \"Reach for the Stars\" for NBC in 1967; and \"One in a Million\" for ABC in 1967.\n\nGriffin scored a coup when \"Tonight Show\" host Jack Paar accidentally emerged onto the set of \"Play Your Hunch\" during a live broadcast, and Griffin got him to stay for a spontaneous interview. After Paar left \"The Tonight Show\", but before Johnny Carson took over (Carson was still hosting \"Who Do You Trust?\" for ABC), Griffin was one of the many guest hosts who presided over \"Tonight\" in the interim. Griffin was considered the most successful of the guest hosts, and was rewarded with his own daytime talk show on NBC in 1962. This live, 55-minute program was not successful however, and was cancelled in 1963.\nIn 1965, Griffin launched a syndicated talk show for Group W (Westinghouse Broadcasting) titled \"The Merv Griffin Show\". The show aired in a variety of time slots throughout North America; many stations ran it in the daytime, others aired it in prime-time and a few broadcast it opposite Johnny Carson's \"The Tonight Show\". Griffin's announcer/sidekick was the veteran British character actor Arthur Treacher, who had been his mentor. After Treacher left the show in 1970, Griffin would do the announcing himself, and walk on stage with the phrase: \"And now..., here I come!\" According to an obituary article on August 24, 2007 in \"Entertainment Weekly\", \"The Merv Griffin Show\" was on the air for 21 years and won eleven Emmy Awards during its run.\n\nGriffin was not shy about tackling controversial subjects, especially the Vietnam War. The guests on the Westinghouse show were an eclectic mix of entertainers, authors, politicians, and \"personality\" performers like Zsa Zsa Gabor. Griffin also booked controversial guests like George Carlin, Dick Gregory, Richard Pryor, Norman Mailer, and Bertrand Russell. Griffin received critical acclaim for booking such guests, but was also widely criticized for it. When philosopher and anti-war activist Bertrand Russell used Griffin's show to condemn the war in Vietnam, Griffin was criticized for letting Russell have his say. Arnold Schwarzenegger, later the 38th Governor of California, made his talk show debut in the United States on Griffin's talk show in 1974 after moving from Austria.\n\nGriffin dedicated two shows to the topic of Transcendental Meditation and its founder Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, one in 1975, the other in 1977; the 1977 edition aired separate from the main series as a standalone special in some regions such as Canada. Griffin himself was an enthusiastic student of the practice.\n\nGriffin would also frequently chat with audience members. One regular audience member, Lillian Miller, would become a fixture on Griffin's program throughout its run.\n\nGriffin's best friend since the sixth grade, Robert (Bob) Murphy, was the producer of \"The Merv Griffin Show,\" and eventually became president of Merv Griffin Enterprises.\n\nCBS gave Griffin a late-night show opposite Carson in 1969, a move which proved disastrous. The network was uncomfortable with the guests Griffin wanted, who often spoke out against the Vietnam War and on other taboo topics. When political activist Abbie Hoffman was Griffin's guest in April 1970, CBS blurred the video of Hoffman so viewers at home would not see his trademark American flag pattern shirt even though other guests had worn the same shirt in the past, uncensored. Griffin disliked the censorship imposed by CBS and complained.\n\nSensing that his time at CBS was ending, and tired of the restrictions imposed by the network, Griffin secretly signed a contract with rival company Metromedia. The contract with Metromedia would give him a syndicated daytime talk show deal as soon as CBS canceled Griffin's show. Within a few months, Griffin was fired by CBS. His new show began the following Monday and ran until the mid-1980s. By 1986, Griffin was ready to retire and ended his talk show run. Thanks to profits from his highly successful game shows, Griffin had become one of the world's wealthiest entertainers.\n\nGriffin created and produced the successful television game show \"Jeopardy!\" in 1964; in an Associated Press profile released right before the show premiered, Griffin talked about the show's origins:\nThe show, originally titled \"What's the Question?\", premiered on NBC on March 30, 1964, hosted by Art Fleming, and lasted for 11 years. Griffin wrote the 30-second piece of music heard during the show's Final Jeopardy! Round, and which later became the iconic melody of the theme for the syndicated version of the show hosted by Alex Trebek.\n\nIn 1975, NBC canceled \"Jeopardy!\" after moving it twice on its daytime schedule, despite having an additional year on its network contract left to fulfill. Griffin produced the show's successor, \"Wheel of Fortune\", which premiered on January 6, 1975. \"Wheel\", with Chuck Woolery as host and Susan Stafford as the hostess, had successful ratings throughout its network run. From December 1975 to January 1976, the show expanded to an hour, in response to the successful 60-minute version of \"The Price Is Right\" on CBS.\n\n\"Wheel\" barely escaped cancellation in 1980, when NBC replaced three of its other game shows with a daytime talk show starring David Letterman; NBC finally cancelled it in 1989, when CBS picked it up for a year (only to return to NBC, when the daytime version was finally cancelled for good in 1991). The show became a phenomenon, when on September 19, 1983, a nighttime version hit the syndication market with Pat Sajak and Vanna White as host and hostess, respectively. Around the same time, Griffin composed the show's best-known theme song, \"Changing Keys\", which was used in several variants from then until 2002.\n\nAs for \"Jeopardy!\", two different revivals of the show would be produced: one on NBC that ran for five months in late 1978/early 1979 with Art Fleming returning as host, and the other airing in first-run syndication beginning on September 10, 1984, starring Alex Trebek. The syndicated versions of both \"Jeopardy!\" and \"Wheel\" remain on the air today.\n\nIn 1990, Griffin had an ambitious but unsuccessful attempt at adapting the venerable board game \"Monopoly\" into a game show of the same name. His last game show was a wild game show called \"Ruckus,\" which emanated from the Resorts International Hotel & Casino in Atlantic City, which he owned at the time. Involving slapstick stunts and a somewhat truncated version of his old \"Reach for the Stars,\" the show initially aired locally in New York, with the intent of national syndication early the following year. The Amazing Johnathan left the show after 65 episodes because of a contract dispute and the show was scrapped before it was to be nationally syndicated. A national audience did get a look at it, via reruns that aired for a time on GSN.\n\nUpon his retirement, Griffin sold his production company, Merv Griffin Enterprises, to Columbia Pictures Television (now known as Sony Pictures Television), at the time a unit of The Coca-Cola Company, for US$250 million on May 6, 1986, the largest acquisition of an entertainment company owned by a single individual at that time. Following the sale, \"Forbes\" named him the richest Hollywood performer in history. He retained the title of creator of both his game shows.\n\nThe two powerhouses spun off numerous programs, and Griffin often would sign on as a creative consultant. The spin-offs included \"Wheel 2000\" on CBS in 1997 and the short lived \"Jep!\" on GSN in 1998, both for children; \"Rock & Roll Jeopardy!\" on VH1 in 1998 for purveyors of pop music trivia; a teen-oriented game called \"Click!\", which introduced Ryan Seacrest as its host, and – in association with Wink Martindale – \"Headline Chasers\" in 1985.\n\nOn May 14, 2003, Griffin was honored with the Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI) President's Award at its annual Film and Television Awards ceremony, for having created some of America's best-known game show melodies.\n\nIn 2007, Griffin's production company, Merv Griffin Entertainment, began production on a new syndicated game show \"Merv Griffin's Crosswords\" (originally titled \"Let's Play Crosswords\" and \"Let's Do Crosswords\"). The show taped in Los Angeles after initial reports that it would be produced at WMAQ-TV in Chicago. The show was produced in association with Program Partners and the William Morris Agency and began airing September 10, 2007. NBC-owned-and-operated stations in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco and Dallas carried the show, with many stations airing two episodes per day. The show lasted only one season, ending on May 16, 2008 in first-run and September 5, 2008 in reruns.\n\nGriffin ventured into real estate, purchasing the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills. In 1988 Griffin purchased Resorts International and two of their hotels, in Atlantic City, NJ and Paradise Island in The Bahamas from Donald Trump and other investors. Part of the deal was that Trump would buy Resorts' interest in the yet to be constructed Taj Mahal project for $273 million. Griffin subsequently sought bankruptcy court protection on Dec. 23, 1989 for Resorts International Inc., his troubled hotel and casino operator.\n\nThe background to this was on Nov. 12, when Resorts reached a tentative agreement with certain bondholders, several bondholders petitioned the United States Bankruptcy Court in Camden, New Jersey, to put the company into involuntary bankruptcy to protect legal claims they might have against Trump, the real estate investor Griffin outbid for Resorts the prior year. As a result, this literally wiped out or greatly reduced the investments of the bondholders, so that Mr. Griffin could sue Trump and yet still retain a significant portion for himself.\n\nBesides Resorts International, the holding company for casinos in Atlantic City and the Bahamas, three company affiliates also filed for Chapter 11 protection: Griffin Resorts Inc., Resorts International Financing Inc. and Griffin Resorts Holding Inc.\n\nAn active desert resident, he was a supporter of the La Quinta Arts Festival and the owner of the Merv Griffin Givenchy Resort & Spa in Palm Springs, now The Parker. He owned a ranch near La Quinta, California where he raised thoroughbred racehorses, as well as St. Clerans Manor, a boutique hotel, set in an eighteenth-century estate once owned by director John Huston, near Craughwell, in County Galway, Ireland. In the 1980s, Griffin purchased the Paradise Island Resort and Casino in the Bahamas for US$400 million from Trump, but he later sold it for just US$125 million. Griffin sold his empire to The Coca-Cola Company for $250 million in 1986, then went on a buying spree of hotels, so that his wealth in 2003 was said to be around $1.2 billion.\n\nGriffin kept many details of his personal and business life private. In 1991, he was sued by Deney Terrio, the host of \"Dance Fever\", another show Griffin created, alleging sexual harassment. The same year, Brent Plott, a longtime employee who worked as a bodyguard, horse trainer and driver, filed a $200 million palimony lawsuit. Griffin characterized both lawsuits as extortion.\n\nGriffin's \"Los Angeles Times\" obituary repeated a 1991 statement he had made regarding Plott's lawsuit: \"This is a shameless attempt to extort money from me. This former bodyguard and horse trainer was paid $250 a week, lived in one of two apartments underneath my former house as part of his security function, and left my payroll six or seven years ago. His charges are ridiculous and untrue.\"\n\nUltimately, both suits were dismissed. He consistently evaded answering questions about his sexuality with a characteristic quip. In an interview with \"The New York Times\" published on May 26, 2005, Griffin said: \"I tell everybody that I'm a quarter-sexual. I will do anything with anybody for a quarter.\"\n\nUntil his death, Griffin remained friends with his ex-wife Julann Griffin, whom he credited with creating the premise of \"Jeopardy!\"\n\nOn being wealthy, he said that \"if people know you're rich, they don't talk with you when you walk down the street.\" He kept his wealth an open secret, amassing media outlets, hotels and casinos with a net worth widely estimated at more than a billion dollars. Griffin stated he did not really know his worth because it \"would keep me from sleeping at night\". Former First Lady Nancy Reagan and he exchanged birthday greetings each July 6 for their shared birthday. Griffin was also an honorary pallbearer at the funeral of President Ronald Reagan in 2004, having been friends with both of the Reagans for many years.\n\nIn 1974, Griffin was inducted to the Hollywood Walk of Fame. In 1998, a Golden Palm Star on the Walk of Stars was dedicated to him. In 2005, he accepted the degree Doctor of Laws (honoris causa) from the National University of Ireland, Galway, and in 2008, he was posthumously inducted into the Television Hall of Fame.\n\nGriffin's prostate cancer, treated originally in 1996, returned and he was admitted to Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, where his condition deteriorated, leading to his death on August 12, 2007, at the age of 82. Griffin is survived by his son, Tony, born in 1959 during Griffin's marriage to Julann Wright from 1958 to 1976, as well as two grandchildren.\n\nFuneral services were held for Griffin on August 17, 2007, at the Church of the Good Shepherd in Beverly Hills. The well-attended service included Nancy Reagan; Arnold Schwarzenegger (who gave the eulogy along with Tony Griffin); Maria Shriver; and various actors, television stars, employees, and friends including Pat Sajak, Vanna White, Alex Trebek, Dick Van Dyke, Jack Klugman, Dick Van Patten, Ellen DeGeneres, Portia de Rossi, Ryan Seacrest, Catherine Oxenberg and Casper Van Dien. Pallbearers included Griffin Group vice-chairman Ron Ward, President Robert Pritchard, and Vice President Michael Eyre, as well as Tony Griffin. His 7-year-old grandson Donovan Mervyn was an honorary pallbearer as was Nancy Reagan. His 12-year-old granddaughter Farah gave a reading. A post-burial reception was held at the Beverly Hilton, a property owned by Griffin from 1987 to 2003. He was buried in Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery and his headstone epitaph (even though in his book \"Merv\", written with David Bender in 2003, states it would be \"Stay Tuned\") reads \"I will not be right back after this message\", an epitaph Griffin announced on \"The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson\".\n\nGSN honored Griffin by airing ten-episode marathons of \"Wheel\" and \"Jeopardy!\" during the weekend of August 18–19, 2007. The \"Wheel\" marathon included two episodes with cameo appearances by Griffin: Sajak's departure from the daytime version in 1989 and a 1992–93 episode that ended with Griffin, his band \"The MervTones,\" and White singing at a dinner club in Orlando, Florida. The \"Jeopardy!\" marathon consisted of a rerun of the Jeopardy! Million Dollar Masters Tournament from 2002. His estate was recently sold for $7 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39003322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39003322", "title": "Najahid dynasty", "text": "Najahid dynasty\n\nNajahid dynasty (; Banū Najāḥ) was a slave dynasty of Abyssinian origin founded in Zabid in the Tihama (lowlands) region of Yemen around 1050 AD. \nThey faced hostilities from the Highlands dynasties of the time, chiefly the Sulayhids. Their last sovereign was killed by the Mahdids in 1158.\n\nThe last Ziyadid king died in 1018, leaving a child behind. The guardianship of the child was assumed by an Abyssinian eunuch named al-Hussien ibn Salama. Al-Hussein ibn Salamah saved the Ziyadid Dynasty from total collapse after a devastating attack led by a highland emir named Abdullah ibn Qahtan in 989. Ibn Salama recovered the original limits of the Ziyadid kingdom from Haly (present day Saudi Arabia) to Aden, As vizier, he had two Abyssinian slaves named Nafis and Najah appointed as administrators. Najah would become the founder of what is now called the Najahid Dynasty. Nafis killed the child king of the Ziyadid dynasty. The murdered king was the last of his race. With him the Arab dynasty of Banu Ziyad came to an end in Tihama, and their power passed into the hands of their slaves. Najah, on hearing of the treatment his master had undergone at the hands of Nafis, marched toward Zabid and killed Nafis by immuring him in a wall in 1050. He adopted the use of royal umbrella and struck the coinage in his name. Najah lost Aden to the Banu Ma'an Dynasty, only Zabid remained under his possession. Being of an Abyssinian slave origin, Najah was not recognized as a sovereign by the tribal elements in the Yemeni highlands. He belonged to an ancient Abyssinian tribe called \"Jazal\".\n\nA decade later, Ali al-Sulayhi founded an Ismaili Shia dynasty in the highlands. He marched toward Zabid and killed Najah, forcing his sons to flee to Dahlak in 1060. Najah had four sons, two of them committed suicide while in Dahlak.\n\nAli al-Sulayhi had visited Zabid before his career of conquests. Tihama's inhabitants are of mixed Arab and African ancestry contrary to the Yemeni population in the highlands. The former Ziyadid Dynasty of Zabid brought shiploads of Abyssinian slaves to the city. Ali al-Sulayhi was invited to a meal by a black notable from the city but Ali rejected him and replied by citing a poem of Al-Mutanabbi:\n\nAl-Sulayhi returned to Sana'a after conquering Zabid. Ali al-Sulayhi headed a pilgrimage caravan to Mecca in 1066 but was ambushed by Said al-Ahwal, one of Najah's sons who previously fled Zabid. Said al-Ahwal and his men were mistaken for servants by the Sulayhids. Ali al-Sulayhi was killed and al-Ahwal imprisoned his wife Asma bint Shihab. Asma bint Shihab wrote to her son Ahmed al-Mukarram from Zabid :\nAl-Mukarram assembled an army of 3,000 horsemen from his own tribe and marhced toward Zabid to free his mother from captivity. The Najahid slave army was defeated and immense numbers were slain. Said al-Ahwal fled the battle field again to Dahlak. Ahmed al-Mukaram found out later that his mother was not pregnant, she thought to excite and stimulate her son to vindication of his honor. Ahmed al-Mukarram appointed his uncle As'ad ibn Shihab to govern Zabid and its dependencies in Tihama and returned to Sana'a. In 1087, Said al-Ahwal returned to Zabid but was killed that same year by Ahmed al-Mukkaram. Jayyash, another son of Najah, fled to India. Jayyash returned to Zabid in 1089 disguised as an Indian. Being a Sunni, he enjoyed the support of Zabid population and easily gained power in the city. A dispute between two Sulayhids officials in Zabid played into his hands, Jayyash overheard one of them tell the other:\nJayyash did not kill the Sulayhid governor of Zabid, but sent him with his family to Sana'a. Jayyash continued to rule securely with no hardship from the Highalnds until his demise in 1104. He was succeeded by his son al-Fatik, who however was opposed by his brothers Ibrahim and Abdulwahed. al-Fatik died in 1106 and his successor Mansur was installed as a vassal of the Sulayhids in Zabid.\n\nIn 1130, Mansur (Sulayhids vassal) died peacefully and his son al-Fatik II succeeded him. He died after 3 years. With him the dynasty came to an end. A vizier named Anis al-Fatiki, held power and struck coinage in his name in Zabid while keeping al-fatik III as a figurehead. Queen Arwa al-Sulayhi, the last Sulayhid sovereign died in 1138. After her demise, Yemen was split between several contenders. Zaydi Immamte was revived in Najran, Sa'dah,and Jawf after 72 years of absence. The Hamdanid sultans were sovereign of Sana'a and Najahid viziers were ruling Zabid independently. Anis al-Fatiki was slain by another vizier named Manallah al-Fatiki. An Arab named Ali ibn Mahdi al-Himyari, native of the Yemeni Highlands, founded the Mahdid dynasty in Tihama. Ibn Mahdi and his followers burned down several districts north of Zabid. He had sworn to bring the Abyssinians back to slavery and ordered his men to kill everyone including the handicapped. Out of desperation, the people of Zabid sought assistance from the Zaydi imam Ahmed ibn Sulayman against al-Himyari. The Zaydi imam ordered Fatiq III to be executed. Fatiq III was either killed by the Imam, the Mahdids, or his own soldiers. With this event, the slave dynasty came an end and the Mahdids took over Zabid in 1158.\n\nThe Najahids can be considered a Neo-Aksumite state, but this opinion becomes weak because the Semitic & Semitized Aksumite elite evaded enslavement & managed to retain a high social status within the Yemeni society (The ruling class Al Nagashi clan that remained autonomous till present time, the military Al-Saidi Clan that occupies many valleys in Yemen, the sea-faring Al-Aksum clan that eventually expanded to the Persian Gulf). However, a large part of the Aksumite & their descendants became enslaved by the Ziyadids, those enslaved Aksumites were of diverse East African origins, joined later by waves of new slaves. The lack of a common tribal origin might have helped the Najahids develop a strong political identity that helped them stay unified vs the influence of the Highlanders. They were relied upon for the army, administration and \nagricultural labour. The Najahid were the first and only hereditary black slave ruling house established in Yemen. Once they had lost their sovereignty, these \"slaves\" retained a separate ethnic identity, and simply have become just another social group within Yemeni society. It is difficult to establish some link between them and al-Akhdam (servants) or \"Hujur\" in southern Yemen however, Yemenis believe them to be of Abyssinian or other African origin. They were still described as 'abid (slaves) in the Yemeni chronicles as late as the 16th century. But it is not clear whether they were real slaves or this was just a term used to define their ethnic and social position. These \"slaves\" are not segregated from the rest of society in Zabid as they are in the highlands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23254641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23254641", "title": "Nangzhik Gompa", "text": "Nangzhik Gompa\n\nNangzhik Monastery (, , locally pronounced \"Narshi\" or \"Nogi\"), formerly known by several other names (), is a monastery of the Bon religion in Amdo, modern Ngawa Town, Sichuan, China. It is about a walk up a shortcut to reach the monastery on a hill to the north of the town. On a hill to the east is another Bon monastery named Togden or Topgyel which has a large stupa nearby.\n\nFounded in 1108 as Gyelten Püntsok Monastery () by Nyimadzin (), it was moved to its present site in 1754. It is a large monastery with about 800-1000 monks, and it is said to be the biggest Bon monastery in Tibet. Nangzhik is a branch of Nogi (Duiansi) at Changla in Songpan County.\n\nA history of the monastery was published in 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33266276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33266276", "title": "Our Lady of Itatí", "text": "Our Lady of Itatí\n\nOur Lady of Itatí (), also known as the Virgin of Itatí, is a Roman Catholic title of the Virgin Mary, whose principal shrine is in the city of Itatí, Corrientes Province, Argentina. Her feast day is celebrated on July 9, with an anniversary celebration on July 16.\n\nAccording to legend, the wooden representation of the Virgin Mary saved the life of 17th-century Jesuit missionary, Luis de Bolaños, known for his attempts to convert the natives to Catholicism. It is also said that the Virgin intervened in a battle between two native tribes, resulting in the victory of the tribe with the conquerors' aid. \n\nOn July 16, 1900, the statue of Our Lady was granted a Canonical Coronation under the pontificate of Pope Leo XIII, who proclaimed the statue as the patron saint of Corrientes. In 1950, a basilica to enshrine the image was built with one of the tallest domes in South America, now known as one of the largest Catholic pilgrimage sites in Argentina, where draws about 300,000 pilgrims annually. \n"}
{"id": "2005691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005691", "title": "Prophecy of Neferti", "text": "Prophecy of Neferti\n\nThe Prophecy of Neferti is one of the few surviving literary texts from ancient Egypt. The story is set in the Old Kingdom, under the reign of King Snefru. However, the text should be attributed to an individual named Neferyt, who most likely composed it at the beginning of the Twelfth Dynasty. The nature of the literary text is argued upon. There are a number of different theories stating that the literature is a historical romance in pseudo-prophetic form, political literature, religious motivation as well as a literary text created to change and improve the situation in Egypt during the Twelfth Dynasty.\n\nThe Prophecies of Neferti is set in the fictional court of King Snefru (c. 2575–2551 BC), who ruled Egypt during the Fourth Dynasty. The sage Neferti is summoned to the court so that he can entertain the King with fine speeches. He is asked to speak of the future rather than the past, the sage prophesies the downfall of the Egyptian nation by civil war, leading to the eventual atonement of the nation through the rise of a great king. According to Neferti this king, “Ameny”, will redeem the chaos, banish enemies, and set all right.\n\n“The transliteration follows Helck 1970b, using the copy on Papyrus Hermitage 1116B as principal source. The section divisions are those of Helck 1970b: after each section number are given the corresponding line-numbers in Papyrus Hermitage 1116B.” \n\n13 (Papyrus Hermitage 1116B, lines 57 to 61)\n\n“nswt pw r iyt n rsy\nimny mAa xrw rn.f\nsA Hmt pw n tA sty\nms pw n Xn nxn\niw.f r Ssp HDt\niw.f r wTs dSrt\niw.f smA sxmty\niw.f r sHtp nbwy\nm mrt.sn\npXr iHy m xfa wsr m nwd\n\nThere is a king who will come from the south\nAmeny true of voice is his name.\nHe is the son of a woman of the Land of the Bow,\nhe is a child of the Heartland of Nekhen.\nHe will take up the White Crown,\nhe will raise up the Red Crown,\nhe will unite the Two Mighty Goddesses,\nhe will appease the Two Lord Gods,\nwith what they desire.\nThe field circuit is in his grasp, the oar in the jump.”\n\nAmenemhat I, who is theorized to be “Ameny” in “The Prophecies of Neferti”, was the first ruler of the Twelfth Dynasty. He “inherited territorial unification, but faced a formidable political task. Kingship had become discredited and locally independent power had become strong. Internal reorganization around a strong central government was the task” (Wilson 275). The history of the Twelfth Dynasty leads scholars to believe that “The Prophecy of Neferti” was written as political propaganda, in order to show Amenemhat I’s claim to kingship. \n\n“What survives of the secular literature of ancient Egypt is a small number of texts. It is impossible to establish conclusively whether they are indicative of the scope of the literary production or whether they are the incidental survivors of the adversaries of the time and men. Among the surviving literary texts from ancient Egypt is, “The Prophecy of Neferti”. It has only one complete version, which is portrayed on two writing tablets (Cairo 25224 and BM 5647) from the Eighteenth Dynasty. This complete version is held at the Hermitage Museum in Saint-Petersburg. Although there is only one complete version, there are numerous Ramesside partial copies of the work, over twenty, which is much higher than other well-known Egyptian literature works. The work is theorized to originally date to the Twelfth Dynasty under the reign of King Amenemhat I. Hans Goedicke argues that this literary work was undoubtedly written for contemporaries, who were fully familiar with the current events and in no way for readers of the distant future.\n\nThere is not one interpretation of the prophecy that is widely agreed upon. Rather, there are numerous supported theories based on the interpretations of respected scholars, ranging from simplistic explanations to in-depth critical analyses. The most widely accepted interpretation revolves around the theory that it was produced as propagandistic literature for the newly established Twelfth Dynasty under the rule of King Amenemhat I. This was an early interpretation and numerous others are now considered.\nHans Goedicke in his book, “The Protocol of Neferyt”, argues that “the text does not contain a prophecy of future events but is an elaboration of existing conditions in the Eastern border region and potential dangers resulting therefrom”. This, much like all Egyptian history, is a debated idea. It is important to note though, being that it places “The Prophecy of Neferty” in a new light; it takes away the possible glorification of Amenemhat I and instead places the purpose of the literary text, as one used to change and improve the situation in Egypt.\n\nLudwig Morenz added to the debate in 2003 with his book, “Literature as a construction of the past in the Middle Kingdom”. He believes that the only reason historical royal names appear in the text, “is to give the text a flavor of historicity and as being proto-mythical” (107). Morenz goes on to say, the author of the literature text lived several centuries after King Snofru, most likely during the Twelfth Dynasty and concrete historical memory was being re-cast as proto-myth. He also argues that the “prophetic genre of text probably derives from this notion of the possibility of knowing history” (111). A significant point that Morenz makes is that, the literary text could have been composed for the coronation of the King but gradually lost its concrete links with it. There is one key point that both Goedicke and Morenz seem to agree on, that the literature text unarguably laments the decline of Egypt as a country with the beginning of the Twelfth Dynasty.\n\nThe third argument presented is by Jose Perez-Accino. \n“Description of the land in chaos and turmoil shows clear primeval overtones. Several phrases can be understood as referring to a time before the creation of the world. The vision of Neferty thus seems to present a metaphor in which the time of trouble is related to a time in which creation has reverted into an original chaos and so the process of creation needs to start again” (1498).\nPerez-Accino compares the rise of Ameny with the creation of the world. His views differ greatly from most scholars; he believes the literary text discusses the mythological founder, Menes, as the king and not Amenemhat I directly, although the description given in the text is valid for both of them. This argument is supported by puns, as well as the idea that the literature is written in primeval and mythological context. If this is true, then from this literary text, Amenemhat I is a new Menes, “who will perform the Gods’ wishes and put an end to a condition which has afflicted the land” (Perez-Accino 1499). With this idea, the Twelfth Dynasty would be comparable to the original creation of the country.\n\n\nGoedicke, Hans. The Protocol of Neferyt: The Prophecy of Neferti. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1977. Print, pg. 14.\n\nMorenz, Ludwig D. 2003. Literature as a construction of the past in the Middle Kingdom. Translated by Martin Worthington. In Tait, John (ed.), Never had the like occurred; Egypt’s view of the Past, 101-117. London: UCL Press, pg. 111.\n\nLichtheim, Miriam. Ancient Egyptian Literature; a Book of Readings. Vol. 1. Berkeley: U of California, 1973. N. pag. Print. The Old and Middle Kingdoms, pg. 139.\n\nParkinson, R. B. \"The Words of Neferti.\" The Tale of Sinuhe and Other Ancient Egyptian Poems, 1940-1640 BC. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1998. N. pag. Print, pg 132.\n\nPerez-Accino, J.R. 2015. Who is the sage talking about? Neferty and the Egyptian sense of history. In Kousoulis, P. and N. Lazaridis (eds.) Proceedings of the Tenth International Congress of Egyptologists: University of the Ageean, 2. 1495-1502. Leuven: Peeters, pg. 1495.\n\nQuirke, Stephen 2004. Egyptian literature 1800 BC: questions and readings. Egyptology 2. London: Golden House.\n\nWilson, John A. “Review: Littérature et politique dans l'Égypte de la XIIe Dynastie. G. Posener.” Journal of Near Eastern Studies, vol. 16, no. 4, 1957, pp. 275–277.\n"}
{"id": "17073453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17073453", "title": "Sarav viāpak", "text": "Sarav viāpak\n\nIn Sikhism, Sarav viāpak (literally \"all-prevading god\") is the omnipresence of God; since Sikhs hold God to be without form, shape, colour, etc., they see God as present in every living being in the Universe.\n\nSikhism holds that creation is neither \"ex nihilo\" nor from materials lying outside God; it is the result of divine self-revelation by God. God has revealed or manifested himself in the form of the world. But God's being is not exhausted in this world alone, it goes beyond this world.\n\nIn Sikhism, creation is fully real. Because God is real, and the world is the expression of God, it follows that the world is also fully real.\n"}
{"id": "5401382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5401382", "title": "Sarbala", "text": "Sarbala\n\nA sarbala, in certain wedding customs from the Indian subcontinent, is a nephew or cousin of the groom who accompanies the groom during the ceremony as his protector. The sarbala can also be the \"future groom's\" brother in law. \n\nThe word \"sarbala\" (Punjabi), \"shahbala\" (Urdu) is derived from Sanskrit which means associate groom. \nThe sarbala often wears a similar outfit to the groom and rides a horse.\n\nThe tradition is most common in Hindu weddings but may also be part of Muslim or Sikh ceremonies.\n\nIn past a baraat or a marriage procession would go to the bride's village for the marriage ceremony carrying gold and valuable gifts. An attack of robbers on the baraat or the marriage procession was a common occurrence at those times where the robbers would kill everyone in the procession and rob the valuables. The Sarbala was usually the younger brother or a cousin of the groom who assured the safety of the Groom. And during this process if anything was to happen to the groom the sarbala would take his place and continue the wedding. \n"}
{"id": "10540900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10540900", "title": "Scientology Finance", "text": "Scientology Finance\n\nScientology Finance are the policies employed in Church of Scientology organizations related to financial management, the purpose of which is defined by L. Ron Hubbard in HCOPL 1 May 1958 Issue II, titled \"Financial Management\": \"\"Purpose\": Makes certain the org makes money and continues in good credit.\"\n\nFrom HCOPL 28 January 1965 \"How to Maintain Credit Standing and Solvency\" on page 5, Hubbard states:\n\"\"Only\" pay by this system: PAY EVERYTHING UP TO A DATE ALWAYS and no further.\"\n\nHubbard states in this policy that collection actions by creditors accompanied by threat are only paid when threats are made in the future: \"Government tax bills, water bills, occasionally rent or phone are sometimes accompanied by threats of vast action unless the whole bill is paid instantly. Still try to use the above system. But if you can't, pay it and retard other bills accordingly. And thereafter, don't pay that outfit's bill on any other terms than threatened trouble.\"\n\nIn situations of dealing with a contractor, Hubbard gives special advice: \"If a tradesman, despite the use of the above system, demands further payment or threatens suit, caution him that if he carries on this way you'll deal elsewhere. And carry out the threat. \"Never\" continue to use a private business firm after they become obnoxious about bills. Trade elsewhere. And say why.\"\n\nHubbard asserts that if a creditor gets upset with non-payment by a Scientology organization, then the creditor is \"gypping\" the organization or is unwilling to do financing: \"If you're using the above dateline system and a tradesman gets upset, then he is gypping you or he has too little finance to handle your account, so stop trading with him. Always make that an ironbound policy. Be very proud and haughty about bills. \"Never\" propitiate.\"\n\nUse of this policy has resulted in lawsuits brought against Scientology organizations for non-payment of bills.\n\nIn contrast to Hubbard's policy on creditors, his policy on payment for services mandates prepayment. From HCOPL 27 November 1971 Issue III, \"FREE SERVICES = FREE FALL\" (all text in this policy letter is in capital letters):\n\"An Auditor or Course Supervisor delivering a service to an individual without having to hand a fully paid invoice for that service and who does not send the person back to the registrar to be signed up for that service is: A. Covertly robbing his fellow staff members of their pay, and B. In a condition of Treason to his org, and is so assigned.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "195127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195127", "title": "Supplication", "text": "Supplication\n\nSupplication (also known as petitioning) is a form of prayer, wherein one party humbly or earnestly asks another party to provide something, either for the party who is doing the supplicating (e.g., \"Please spare my life.\") or on behalf of someone else. \n\nSupplication is a theme of earliest antiquity, embodied in the \"Iliad\" as the prayers of Chryses for the return of his daughter, and of Priam for the dead body of his son, Hector. Richard Martin notes repeated references to suppliants throughout the poem, including warriors begging to be spared by the Greeks on the battlefield.\n\nIn Christianity, the prayer of supplication for health by and on behalf of the sick is referenced in early Christian writings in the New Testament, especially James 5:13-16.\n\nOne example of supplication is the Catholic ritual of novena (from \"novem\", the Latin word for \"nine\") wherein one repeatedly asks for the same favor over a period of nine days. This ritual began in Spain during the Middle Ages when a nine-day period of hymns and prayers led up to a Christmas feast, a period which ended with gift giving. A contemporary Christian example of supplication is the practice of the Daily Prayer for Peace by the Community of Christ where a member prays for peace each day at a specified time. Philippians 4:6 says, \"Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God.\"\n\nIn Islam, the Arabic word \"duʻā\" (plural \"du'aat\" or \"ʾadʿiyah\") is used to refer to supplications. \"Adʻiya\" may be made in any language, although there are many traditional Islamic supplications in Arabic, Persian and Turkish. In Islam, \"duʻā\" tends to mean personal prayer. The supplications (Duaas) of Prophets are given in the Quran.\n\nThe word Ardâs ( ਅਰਦਾਸ ) is derived from the Persian word 'Arazdashat', meaning a request, a supplication, a prayer, a petition or an address to a superior authority. It is a Sikh prayer that is done before performing or after undertaking any significant task; after reciting the daily Banis (prayers); or completion of a service like the Paath, kirtan (hymn-singing) program or any other religious program. In Sikhism, these prayers are also said before and after eating. The prayer is a plea to God to support and help the devotee with whatever he or she is about to undertake or has done.\n\n"}
{"id": "24137317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24137317", "title": "Tahnik", "text": "Tahnik\n\nTaḥnīk (تَحْنِيكِ) is an Islamic ceremony of touching the lips of a newborn baby with honey, sweet juice or pressed dates. Originally the date was softened by mastication by the pious person and rubbed on the infant's palate. The Arabic word \"ḥanak\" (حنك), pl. \"aḥnāk\" (احناك), means 'palate', from which the word \"taḥnīk\" (تَحْنِيكِ) is derived. \nDuring the lifetime of the Prophet Muhammad, Muslims would bring their newborns for him to perform \"taḥnīk\" upon them.\n\nIn the collected Ḥadīth books, Sahih Muslim, by Muslim ibn al-Hajjaj, \"Kitab al-Adab\" (كتاب الآداب) \"Book of Etiquette\", contains the account of the origin of the ceremonial ritual performed by the newborn's mother or father: \nAnas b. Malik reports this account:\n"}
{"id": "7040454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7040454", "title": "Temptation", "text": "Temptation\n\nTemptation is a desire to engage in short-term urges for enjoyment, that threatens long-term goals. \nIn the context of some religions, temptation is the inclination to sin. Temptation also describes the coaxing or inducing a person into committing such an act, by manipulation or otherwise of curiosity, desire or fear of loss.\n\nIn the context of self-control and ego depletion, temptation is described as an immediate, pleasurable urge and/or impulse that disrupts an individuals ability to wait for the long-term goals, in which that individual hopes to attain.\n\nMore informally, temptation may be used to mean \"the state of being attracted and enticed\" without anything to do with moral, ethical, or ideological valuation; for example, one may say that a piece of food looks \"tempting\" even though eating it would result in no negative consequences.\n\nResearch suggests that there are paradoxical effects associated with temptation. Implicit in all the forms in which temptation can present itself there is a set of options that may facilitate high moral standards in decision-making. \n\nTemptations can have effects on long-term goal attainment, it has been found that individuals who experienced temptation and the effects of it found there were benefits to their experiences.\n\nA research article was written by Vanchai Ariyabuddhiphongs, a professor at Bangkok University, about the motivational and persuasive negative effects of such temptations such as money, that can push one to disregard religious beliefs whether it be Buddhism, Christianity etc.. He says that when given an opportunity at a large amount of money we have a greater chance of harming, stealing, partaking in sexual misconduct, or abusing substances. This idea of money as a negative persuasion tactic in regards to the religions mentioned above, is psychologically proven to affect our cognitive ability to make decisions. Vanchai's article talked solely on Buddhist practices but it is believed that it could be broadened to all beliefs. Our religious beliefs may define who we are as spiritual people, but this article described how an outside source can push those thoughts away and look to benefit us in a way that may include disregarding religion .\n\nTemptation is usually used in a loose sense to describe actions which indicate a lack of self control. Temptation is something that allures, excites, and seduces someone. Successful endeavors of goal-driven activity is threatened by the tempting nature of immediate pleasure Infatuation can also lead to temptation as someone might do something for \"love\" in spite of one's better judgement.\nIn advertising, temptation is a theme common to many of the marketing and advertising techniques used to make products more attractive.\n\nTemptation is measured through indirect and implicit methods. \nTemptation could be measured using experimental constructs of undesirable situations or through a 'self-report' outcome measure of problem behaviors, which leads to the full extent and process of the underlying conflict and the implications that are oftentimes overlooked.\n\nResearch has found that components of an assessment that would allow for an individual to precisely understand the influence of self-control and other potential or protective variables on the process, experience, and resolution of temptation.\n\nGenerally individuals experience temptations in both positive and negative terms. For example, there is an individual who may experience temptation in the form of fearing the potential negative implications and consequences that can arise, whether it is in the context of standards or accountability related to the self, society, and/or the transcendent, including condemnation from one's conception of deity, higher power, or sense of responsibility to the universe or nature.\n\nAnother example, an individual may view their experience of temptation as an opportunity for growth, it could be intrapersonal growth, interpersonal growth, and/or transcendent growth, which includes recognizing constructive and/or collaborative interactions with the transcendent.\n\nIn regards to Spiritual struggle, research argues that the struggle can be looked upon as a gift, as an opportunity for growth, and as a means to improve one's life.\n\nThere are valenced effects on a variety of outcomes from temptation. Such as the health and well-being of an individual. There is also the relief of stress that an individual may be experiencing. For example, undesirable, \"illicit, and/or transcendent conflicts underlying the successful or failed resolution of the experience of temptation will likely have facilitative or debilitative effects on myriad aspects of physical health, mental health, and well-being\".\nAn individuals experience with temptation may influence a person's future experiences, predict future possibilities, and outcomes.\n\nWhen an individual is attempting to address or resolve a complex experience of temptation, including transcendent levels and potential negative and positive expressions. For example, \"mindfulness, humility, prayer, meditation, reframing, resoluteness, determination,other spiritual and/or positive psychological variables may be facilitators or, or perhaps alternatives to, self-control as the primary arbiter of temptation\".\n\nSelf-control is commonly used by an individual to resist temptation. B. F. Skinner stated 9 methods for achieving this.\nSelf-control is considered by some to be a limited resource, which is depleted by use. Some believe that self-control can be replenished and thus that the immediate effects of an individual's depleted self-control can be overcome, and that an individual must be able to identify the presence of a temptation (i.e., short-term desire) before self-control can affect an outcome.\n\n"}
{"id": "4311863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4311863", "title": "The End of Faith", "text": "The End of Faith\n\nThe End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason is a 2004 book by Sam Harris, concerning organized religion, the clash between religious faith and rational thought, and the problems of tolerance towards religious fundamentalism.\n\nHarris began writing the book in what he described as a period of \"collective grief and stupefaction\" following the September 11, 2001 attacks. The book comprises a wide-ranging criticism of all styles of religious belief.\n\nThe book was first published August 11, 2004, and it was awarded the PEN/Martha Albrand Award for First Nonfiction the following year. The paperback edition was published in October 2005. In the same month it entered \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list at number four, and remained on the list for a total of 33 weeks.\n\nIn response to criticism and feedback regarding \"The End of Faith\", Harris wrote \"Letter to a Christian Nation\" two years later.\n\n\"The End of Faith\" opens with a literary account of a day in the life of a suicide bomber – his last day. In an introductory chapter, Harris calls for an end to respect and tolerance for the competing belief systems of religion, which he describes as being \"all equally uncontaminated by evidence\". While focusing on the dangers posed by religious extremist groups now armed with weapons of mass destruction, Harris is equally critical of religious moderation, which he describes as \"the context in which religious violence can never be adequately opposed.\"\n\nHarris continues by examining the nature of belief itself, challenging the notion that we can in any sense enjoy \"freedom\" of belief, and arguing that \"belief is a fount of action \"in potentia\".\" Instead he posits that in order to be useful, beliefs must be both logically coherent, and truly representative of the real world. Insofar as \"religious\" belief fails to ground itself in empirical evidence, Harris likens religion to a form of mental illness which, he says, \"allows otherwise normal human beings to reap the fruits of madness and consider them \"holy\".\" He argues that there may be \"sanity in numbers\", but that it is \"merely an accident of history that it is considered normal in our society to believe that the Creator of the universe can hear your prayers, while it is demonstrative of mental illness to believe that he is communicating with you by having the rain tap in Morse code on your bedroom window.\"\n\nHarris follows this with a brief survey of Christianity down the ages, examining the Inquisition and persecutions of witches and Jews. He contends that, far from being an aberration, the torture of heretics was a logical expression of Christian doctrine – one which, he says, was clearly justified by men such as Saint Augustine. Going still further, Harris sees the Holocaust as essentially drawing its inspiration from historical Christian anti-Semitism. \"Knowingly or not,\" he says, \"the Nazis were agents of religion.\"\n\nAmong the controversial aspects of \"The End of Faith\" is an uncompromising assessment and criticism of Islamism, which Harris describes as being a \"cult of death.\" He infers a clear link between Islamic teaching and terrorist atrocities such as 9/11, a notion he supports with quotations from the Koran that call for the use of violence.\n\nHe also presents data from the Pew Research Center, purporting to show that significant percentages of Muslims worldwide would justify suicide bombing as a legitimate tactic. In an attack on what he terms \"leftist unreason,\" Harris criticises Noam Chomsky among others for, in his view, displaying an illogical willingness to lay the entire blame for such attitudes upon U.S. foreign policy.\n\nHowever, Harris also critiques the role of the Christian right in the United States, in influencing such areas as drug policies, embryonic stem cell research, and AIDS prevention in the developing world. In what he sees as a steady drift towards theocracy, Harris strongly criticises leading figures from both the legislature and the judiciary for what he perceives as an unabashed \"failure\" to separate church and state in their various domains. \"Not only do we still eat the offal of the ancient world,\" he asserts, \"we are positively smug about it.\"\n\nNext, Harris goes on to outline what he terms a \"science of good and evil\" – a rational approach to ethics, which he claims must necessarily be predicated upon questions of human happiness and suffering. He talks about the need to sustain \"moral communities,\" a venture in which he feels that the separate religious moral identities of the \"saved\" and the \"damned\" can play no part. But Harris is critical of the stance of moral relativism, and also of what he calls \"the false choice of pacifism.\" In another controversial passage, he compares the ethical questions raised by collateral damage and judicial torture during war. He concludes that collateral damage is more ethically troublesome. \"If we are unwilling to torture, we should be unwilling to wage modern war,\" Harris concludes.\n\nFinally, Harris turns to spirituality, where he especially takes his inspiration from the practices of Eastern religion. He writes that there have been mystics in the west and calls some of these \"extraordinary men and women\", such as Meister Eckhart, Saint John of the Cross, Saint Teresa of Avila, Saint Seraphim of Sarov, but that, as far as \"Western\" spirituality is concerned, \"we appear to have been standing on the shoulders of dwarfs.\" He discusses the nature of consciousness, and how our sense of \"self\" can be made to vanish by employing the techniques of meditation. Harris quotes from Eastern mystics such as Padmasambhava and Nisargadatta Maharaj, but he does not admit any supernatural element into his argument – \"mysticism is a rational enterprise,\" he contends, \"religion is not.\" He later elaborates: \"The mystic has reasons for what he believes, and these reasons are empirical.\" He states that it is possible for one's experience of the world to be \"radically transformed\", but that we must speak about the possibility in \"rational terms\".\n\nWriting for \"The Independent\", Johann Hari was largely positive, describing the book as \"a brave, pugilistic attempt to demolish the walls that currently insulate religious people from criticism.\"\n\nOther broadly positive reviews have come from Natalie Angier, Daniel Blue, and Stephanie Merritt.\n\nRichard Dawkins has also endorsed the book.\n\nIn a review for \"Free Inquiry\", the editor Thomas W. Flynn alleged that Harris had allowed his argument to become clouded by his personal politics and by his use of spiritual language. Harris later described Flynn's review as \"mixed, misleading, and ultimately exasperating.\"\n\nAnother review by David Boulton for \"New Humanist\", also stopped short of a ringing endorsement, describing the book as containing \"startling oversimplifications, exaggerations and elisions.\"\n\nCritical reviews from Christians have included those by R. Albert Mohler, Jr. for \"The Christian Post\", and Matthew Simpson for \"Christianity Today\". Madeleine Bunting, writing in \"The Guardian\", quotes Harris as saying \"some propositions are so dangerous that it may even be ethical to kill people for believing them.\" Bunting comments, \"[t]his sounds like exactly the kind of argument put forward by those who ran the Inquisition.\"\n\nQuoting the same passage, theologian Catherine Keller asks, \"[c]ould there be a more dangerous proposition than \"that\"?\" and argues that the \"anti-tolerance\" it represents would \"dismantle\" the Jeffersonian wall between church and state.\n\nThe paperback edition of \"The End of Faith\", published in 2005, contained a new afterword in which Harris responded to some of the more popular criticisms he has received since publication. His essay \"Response to Controversy\" also clarified the context of the apparently troubling passage, which was that he was referring to very specific cases like that of the religiously motivated terrorist, where the attempt to kill a murderous terrorist would essentially constitute killing someone for a belief they hold, namely the belief that unbelievers of their particular faith should be killed.\n\n"}
{"id": "29738775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29738775", "title": "Theobald of Étampes", "text": "Theobald of Étampes\n\nTheobald of Étampes (; ; born before 1080, died after 1120) was a medieval schoolmaster and theologian hostile to priestly celibacy. He is the first scholar known to have lectured at Oxford and is considered a forerunner of Oxford University.\n\nTheobald's biography has been reconstructed by Bernard Gineste. Theobald was a canon and the son of a canon from Étampes. As a child he knew many married priests around Étampes, at a time when the Gregorian reform was seeking to enforce clerical celibacy. He was probably educated in the Chartres Cathedral School, and became master (in Latin \"scholaster\") of the school of the parish of Saint-Martin at Étampes and a private tutor to the young viscount of Chartres, Hugh III of Le Puiset. After King Philip I of France annexed Étampes to the royal domain he began to favour the monks of Morigny over the local priests. In 1113, after Hugh of Le Puiset was captured and imprisoned by royal forces, Theobald left Étampes for the Duchy of Normandy. There he became schoolmaster at Caen and planned to leave France for Denmark, but in the end he crossed the Channel to England, where the Duke of Normandy, Henry \"Beauclerc\", was king. At Oxford he gave public lectures to audiences of between 60 and 100 clerics.\n\nSix letters of Theobald of Étampes have been preserved.\n\nTwo are written in Caen. The first is a letter written to a certain Philipp, who had committed an undetermined sexual deviation and sustained harassment accordingly; consoling him Theobald develops the idea that the faults of this kind are not the most serious, and that pride is a far more dangerous sin; he very clearly suggests that those who make profession of chastity often fall into pedophilia. The second letter is sent to a Queen \"Margarita\", thought until recently to be Saint Margaret of Scotland, died in 1093, but Gineste has shown she is Margaret Fredkulla, Queen of Denmark, still alive in 1116. He thanked the Queen of liberality of the Abbey of Saint-Étienne of Caen and seems to make service offerings.\n\nFour are written from Oxford. It seems impossible to give them a chronological order. One is addressed to Faritius, Abbot of Abingdon, to defend himself from a charge of heresy. He has defended and shows that his teaching is Orthodox: dead children who have not been baptized go to hell. The second letter is sent to the Bishop of Lincoln, England; it is the longest and is proving by the authority of Scripture and the Fathers of the Church that even the greatest sinners can access the salvation if he repents up to his final hour. The third is addressed to the heretical Roscellinus of Compiègne. However, the doctrine of Roscellinus about Trinity does not interest Theobald. He accuses him of criticizing the sons of priests, and defends them by pointing out that Saint John the Baptist was one. He also expresses an extremely rare opinion on this subject: the Virgin Mary was also a daughter of a priest. The last of these four letters of Oxford deals with the monks and denies them the right to take the place of the clerics, and to collect tithes and benefits which were until then the monopoly of the clerics and the canons.\n\nThis last quite short letter has subjected to an anonymous monk an endless answer, partly written in verses which strongly supports the clerics and the canons of the time, and praise in return for the monks, trimmed of all virtues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45296320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45296320", "title": "Thepphanom", "text": "Thepphanom\n\nThepphanom or thephanom (, ) is a Thai term referring to the depiction in paintings or traditional Thai patterns of a \"devata\" performing the \"Añjali Mudrā\" hand gesture. The term is also the name of moves in \"muay Thai\" and traditional Thai dance.\n\nThephanom also refers to an angel or deity who is a temple protector and guardian. They are often represented as a pair, a brother and a sister, kneeling on both knees with hands at the wai position, praying or offering respect. The Thepanom first came to earth when Buddha reached enlightenment. They became Buddha's protector, then guardian of religious temples and artifacts such as scrolls.\nThe definition of Thepanom was arrived at by reading descriptions of Thepanom statues and communicating with Thai people.\n"}
{"id": "7923200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7923200", "title": "Umar at Fatimah's house", "text": "Umar at Fatimah's house\n\nUmar at Fatimah's house refers to the event where Umar and his supporters went to the house of Fatimah, the daughter of the prophet Muhammad, in order to get the allegiance of Ali and his followers. This event has been recorded in both Shia and Sunni books and is said to be the cause of Fatimah's miscarriage of Muhsin ibn Ali, as well as Fatimah's death shortly after.\n\nA few months prior to his death, at a place known as Ghadir Khumm, the Islamic prophet Muhammad gathered all the Muslims who were with him and delivered a long sermon. The sermon included the famous statement, \"to whomsoever I am Mawla, Ali is also their Mawla.\" After the end of the sermon, the Muslims were commanded to pledge allegiance to Ali. According to both Shia and Sunni sources, Abu Bakr, Umar, and Uthman were all among the many who pledged allegiance to Ali at the event of Ghadir Khumm.\n\nMuhammad passed away a few months after the event of Ghadir Khumm. As Ali buried Muhammad and led his funeral prayer, a group of Muslims gathered at Saqifa. At Saqifa, Umar pledged allegiance to Abu Bakr, despite the sermon that the Prophet had delivered at Ghadir Khumm, and despite Umar's pledge of allegiance to Ali. A group of Muslims supported Abu Bakr, and became known as the Sunni; another group of Muslims kept their allegiance to Ali and became known as the Shia.\nFadak was a garden oasis in Khaybar, a tract of land in northern Arabia; it is now part of Saudi Arabia. Situated approximately 140 km (87 mi) from Medina, Fadak was known for its water wells, dates, and handicrafts. The Prophet Mohammed had found out that the People of Fadak had collected in order to fight the Muslims alongside the Khaybar Jews. Therefore, he sent Ali to them.\n\nThe people of Fadak surrendered without a fight, and pleaded for a peace treaty in exchange for giving away half their land and wealth to Mohammed.\n\nFadak became Mohammad’s private property (a Fai), as there was no Muslim fighters involved in Fadak to share the booty with. Mohammed gave the wealth away to orphans and also used it to finance the marriage of needy young men.\nAfter Muhammad's death, Abu Bakr confiscated Fatima's share in Fadak that this confiscation continued in Umar up era, the reason for this work, was that Fadak had been assigned to needs and emergencies of Muhammad and now it was just accessible for the ruler of Muslims.\nAccording to Madelung, Umar's saying about the communal property of Muslims in Fadak may be challenging since Abu Bakr made a gift from his share to his daughter Aiesha.\n\nAfter the gathering at Saqifa, Umar and his supporters went to the house of Fatimah; Ali, his family (including Fatimah), and some of his supporters (such as Ammar ibn Yasir, Abu Dhar al-Ghifari, Miqdad ibn Aswad, Salman al-Farsi, Ibn Abbas, al-Abbas, Utbah ibn Abi Lahab, Bara Ibn Azib, Ubay ibn Ka'b, Sa`d ibn Abi Waqqas, Talha and Zubayr ibn al-Awam) were in the house. Umar went to the door of Fatimah's house and said, \"By Allah, I shall burn down (the house) over you unless you come out and give the oath of allegiance (to Abu Bakr).\" Zubayr ibn al-Awam, who had been in Ali's house, came out of the house with his sword drawn but reportedly tripped on something, after which Umar's supporters attacked him.\n\nUmar, who was then in front of the door to Fatimah's house, said to Fatimah, \"I know that the Prophet of God did not love anyone more than you, but this will not stop me from carrying out my decision. If these people stay in your house, I will burn the door in front of you.\" According to another narration, Umar asked for wood, and then told those inside the house, \"I swear by Allah who has my soul in his hand, that if you do not come out, I will burn the house.\" Umar was then informed that Fatimah was inside the house, to which he responded, \"So what! It doesn’t matter to me who is in the house.\"\n\nIt is reported that when Fatimah heard the voices of Umar and his supporters threatening to attack the house, she cried out, \"O father, O Messenger of Allah, how are Umar Ibn al-Khattab and Abu Bakr Ibn Abi Quhafah treating us after you and how do they meet us.\"\n\nThe house was then attacked. Umar and his supporters burned the door of the house; they crushed Fatimah between the door and the wall of the house, they killed Moshin, the baby in her stomach, and they forced Ali out of the house against his will. According to some narrations, a rope was tied around Ali's neck.\n\nThe famous historian Abul Hasan Ali Ibn al-Husayn al-Mas’udi wrote the following in his book \"Isbaat al-Wasiyyah\":\nThe Sunni historian Salahuddin Khalil al-Safadi wrote in his book \"Waafi al- Wafiyyaat\" that \"Umar hit Fatimah (sa) on the stomach such that child in her womb died.\"\n\nUmar and his companions dragged Ali away. Fatimah urged them to stop, saying, \"I will not permit Ali (a.s.) to be dragged with such cruelty and injustice. Woe be upon you, O people! How soon did you usurp our rights in relation to Allah and His Prophet (s.a.w.).\" Umar then ordered Qunfuz to whip Fatimah. According to some narrations, Qunfuz whipped her back and her arms; according to another, he struck her face; according to another, he pushed her so hard that he smashed her ribs. According to another report, Khalid bin Walid struck Fatimah with his sword; another report states that Moghayrah Ibne’ Sho’bah struck her with his sword.\n\nThe Sunni historian Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari, in his Tarikh writes:\n\nAl-Shahrastani writes in his book \"Al-Milal wa al-Nihal\":\n\nIbn Abed Rabboh, in his book \"Al-Iqd ul-Fareed\", writes:\n\nAs for Ali, Abbas and Zubair, they stayed in the house of Fatima until Abu Bakr sent Umar to get them out of Fatima's house and told him: if they refuse, fight them. He took a torch to burn the house and Fatima met him and told him: are you here to burn our house? He said: yes, or you enter what the Ummah has entered (i.e swear allegiance).\n\n“..When Abu Bakr and Umar heard the news that a party of the Ansar and the Muhajirin have gathered with ‘Ali at the house of the daughter of the Prophet, they went with a group of people and attacked the house…” \nBoth Shia and Sunni sources agree that, on a number of occasions, Muhammad had said, \"Fatimah is a part of me. Whoever makes her angry, makes me angry.\" This has been recorded in both Sahih Bukhari (Arabic-English, Volume 5, Traditions 61 and 111) and Sahih Muslim (in the section on the virtues of Fatimah, Volume 4, pages 1904-1905), two of the most important Hadith books to Sunnis. It is also recorded in Sahih Bukhari Chapter of \"The battle of Khaibar\", Arabic-English, v5, tradition #546, pp 381–383, also v4, Tradition #325) that Fatimah was angry with Abu Bakr and did not speak to him before she died.\n\nFatimah is also reported to have said, according to Sunni sources, about Abu Bakr and Umar, \"I take Allah and the angels to be my witness that you have not pleased me; on the other hand, you have angered me. When I shall meet the Prophet (S) I will complain about you two.\"\n\nAccording to a number of sources, Fatimah was killed as a result of injuries sustained when her house was attacked and burned by Umar. She died between 75 and 95 days after the death of Muhammad. Jafar Shahidi confirmed the burning house event. According to many Muslim historians and scholars, including the likes of the Sunni Tabari and the Shia Morteza Motahhari, Fatimah asked Ali to bury her at night to ensure none of her enemies participated in her funeral.\n\n"}
{"id": "36639643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36639643", "title": "Upadesamrta", "text": "Upadesamrta\n\nThe Upadesamrta, or Nectar of Instruction, is an important Gaudiya Vaishnava spiritual text, composed by Rupa Goswami. The Upadesamrta was translated into English in its entirety by A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, founder acarya of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness. Prabhupada also gives extensive commentaries on each translated verse within the Upadesamrita.\n\nIn the Nectar of Instruction, Prabhupada writes \"The Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement is conducted under the supervision of Śrīla Rūpa Gosvāmī. The Gauḍīya Vaiṣṇavas, or Bengali Vaiṣṇavas, are mostly followers of Śrī Caitanya Mahāprabhu, of whom the six Gosvāmīs of Vṛndāvana are direct disciples. Therefore Śrīla Narottama dāsa Ṭhākura has sung:\n\nrūpa-raghunātha-pade ha-ibe ākuti\nkabe hāma bujhaba se yugala-pīriti\n\n'When I am eager to understand the literature given by the Gosvāmīs, then I shall be able to understand the transcendental loving affairs of Rādhā and Kṛṣṇa.'\"\n"}
{"id": "45216752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45216752", "title": "Valabhi University", "text": "Valabhi University\n\nThe University of Valabhi was an important centre of Buddhist learning and championed the cause of Hinayana Buddhism between 600 CE and 1200 CE. Valabhi was the capital of the Maitraka empire during the period 480-775 CE. It was an important port for international trade located in Saurashtra, present day it is called Vallabhipur located in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat in western India, identical with the old state of Vala. For some time, the university was considered to be a rival to Nalanda, in Bihar, in the field of education. In September 2017, the Indian central government started to consider a proposal to revive the ancient university.\n\nThough Valabhi is known to have championed the cause of Hinayana Buddhism, it was neither exclusive nor insular. Brahmanical sciences were also taught here along with the doctrines of Buddhism. References have been found to Brahmanic students who came to learn at this university from the Gangetic plains. Apart from religious sciences, courses offered include:\n\nStudents graduating from Valabhi were usually employed by kings to assist in the government of their kingdoms.\n\nThe prominence of Valabhi was known over the whole of Northern India. Kathasaritsagara narrates the story of a Brahmana, who was determined that he would rather send his son to Valabhi, than to Nalanda or Banaras. Gunamati and Sthiramati were two of its Panditas; very little is known about the other famous teachers and scholars who lived here. It is quite certain that a stamp of approval of doctrines preached by various scholars by the Panditas of Valabhi, who were of authority, was valued highly in learned assemblies of many kingdoms.\nValabhi was visited by Xuanzang, a Chinese pilgrim, in the 7th century and by Yijing towards the end of the century. Yijing described the university as at par with the Buddhist monastic center Nalanda.\n\nWhen Xuanzang visited the university in the middle of the 7th century, there were more than 6000 monks studying in the place. Some 100 monasteries were provided for their accommodation. The citizens of Valabhi, many of whom were rich and generous, made available the funds necessary for running the institution. The Maitraka kings, who ruled over the country, acted as patrons to the university. They provided enormous grants for the working of the institution and equipping its libraries.\n\nIn 775 CE, the patron kings succumbed to an attack by the Arabs. This gave the university a temporary set-back. Even afterwards, the work of the university continued incessantly, as the successors of the Maitraka dynasty continued to patronize it with bountiful donations. Not much information has been retrieved regarding the university during and after this period. The defeat of its patron kings had definitely led way to the slow death of all its educational activities in the 12th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "30965887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30965887", "title": "Visistacaritra", "text": "Visistacaritra\n\nViśiṣṭacāritra or Bodhisattva Superior Practices (Skt; , Japanese: \"Jōgyō\"), is a bodhisattva mentioned in the 15th, 21st, and 22nd chapters of the \"Lotus Sutra\". He is one of the four great perfected bodhisattvas who attends Gautama Buddha and protects the \"Lotus Sutra\" and its devotees. The other three are Anantacaritra, Visuddhacaritra, and Supratisthitacaritra; together they make up the four great primarily evolved bodhisattvas. Viśiṣṭacāritra is also believed to represent the \"true self\" characteristic of buddhahood, which is the selflessness of Nirvana.\n\nIn most schools of Nichiren Buddhism, Nichiren is believed to have fulfilled the vow of Viśiṣṭacāritra during his lifetime. This is because he revealed what he held to be the Superior Practice of chanting the title (\"daimoku\") of the \"Lotus Sutra\", Namu Myōhō Renge Kyō, which would quickly allow all beings to attain enlightenment in their present lifetime, no matter what their capacities. According to Anesaki, from the time of his exile to Sado Island Nichiren deemed himself as the reincarnation of Viśiṣṭacāritra. \n\nIn Nichiren Shōshū, Soka Gakkai and the Kempon Hokke schools, Nichiren is revered as the reincarnation of Viśiṣṭacāritra because he revealed the \"cause\" of Buddhahood: chanting \"Namu Myōhō Renge Kyō\", a practice called \"daimoku\", whereas Gautama is seen as the \"Buddha of True Effect\" as he only revealed the \"effect\" of Buddhahood. This is based on the passage in Chapter 16 of the \"Lotus Sutra\" that reads, \"Originally I [Shakyamuni Buddha] practiced the bodhisattva way, and the life that I acquired then has yet to come to an end\" Nichiren Shōshū and Soka Gakkai interpret the passage to mean that Gautama Buddha must have practiced something to attain Buddhahood, but in the \"Lotus Sutra\" he did not reveal what that practice was, whereas Nichiren taught the daimoku, which leads all beings to Buddhahood.\n\nThese groups conclude Shakyamuni Buddha attained buddhahood in the remote past through the daimoku. \"The Object of Devotion for Observing the Mind\" states, \"Showing profound compassion for those unable to comprehend the gem of the doctrine of three thousand realms in a single moment of life, the Buddha wrapped it within the five characters [of Myōhō Renge Kyō], with which he then adorned the necks of the ignorant people of the latter age.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33276979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33276979", "title": "Visual arts in Israel", "text": "Visual arts in Israel\n\nVisual arts in Israel refers to plastic art created in the Land of Israel/Palestine region, from the later part of the 19th century until today, or art created by Israeli artists. Visual art in Israel encompasses a wide spectrum of techniques, styles and themes reflecting a dialogue with Jewish art throughout the ages and attempts to formulate a national identity.\n\nEarly art in the Land of Israel was mainly decorative art of a religious nature (primarily Jewish or Christian), produced for religious pilgrims, but also for export and local consumption. These objects included decorated tablets, embossed soaps, rubber stamps, etc., most of which were decorated with motifs from graphic arts. In the Jewish settlements artists worked at gold smithing, silver smithing, and embroidery, producing their works in small crafts workshops. A portion of these works were intended to be amulets. One of the best known of these artists, Moshe Ben Yitzhak Mizrachi of Jerusalem made Shiviti (or Shivisi, in the Ashkenazic pronunciation, meditative plaques used in some Jewish communities for contemplation over God's name) on glass and amulets on parchments, with motifs such as the Sacrifice of Isaac, the Book of Esther, and views of the Temple Mount and the Western Wall. Objects of applied art were produced also at the \"Torah ve-Melakhah\" (\"Torah and Work\") school founded in 1882 by the Alliance Israélite Universelle. This school opened departments for the production of art objects in Neo-Classical and Baroque styles, produced by combining manual labor with modern machines.\n\nA large body of artistic work was produced by European artists, primarily Christian painters, who came to document the sites and landscapes of the \"Holy Land\". The motive behind these works was orientalist and religious and focused on documentation – first of the painting and later of the photography – of the holy sites and the way of life in the Orient, and on the presentation of exotic people. Photographs of the Holy Land, which also served as the basis for paintings, focused on documenting structures and people in full daylight, due to the limitations of photography at that time. Therefore an ethnographic approach is in evidence in the photographs, which present a static and stereotypical image of the figures they depict. In the photographs of the French photographer Felix Bonfils such as, for example in his prominent photographs of the Holy Land in the last decades of the 19th century, we even see an artificial desert background, in front of which his figures are posed At the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, local photographers began to appear, the most important of whom is Khalil Raad, who focused on an ethnographic description of the reality of the Holy Land, in large part colonialistic. In addition there were other photographers, many of them Armenian, who worked as commercial photographers in the Land of Israel and neighboring countries.\n\nIn the 1920s, many Jewish painters fleeing pogroms in Europe settled in Tel Aviv.\n\nUntil the beginning of the 20th century no tradition of fine arts existed in the Land of Israel although European artists came as visitors and painted the \"Holy Land\". Artists and craftsmen of Judaica objects and other applied arts made up the majority of artists working in the Land of Israel. Although the “Bezalel School of Arts and Crafts,” known as \"Bezalel\", was not the first art school established in the Jewish settlement, its importance in setting the boundaries of the tradition of modern art in the Land of Israel was very great indeed, and it is customary to view its establishment as the beginning of Israeli art. The school was founded in 1906 by Boris Schatz with the support of heads of Jewish and Zionist institutions. At Bezalel emphasis was placed on objects of applied art with a metaphysical dimension.\n\nAt the art school the influence of European Art Nouveau was in evidence, in addition to other social movements such as the British \"Arts and Crafts\" movement. In the logo of the quarterly magazine \"Yalkut Bezalel\", designed by Ze'ev Raban, we see within the ornate frame cherubs with a painter and a sculptor on each side and a lamp maker and a rug weaver next to them. Under the illustration is the caption \"Work is the fruit; art is the bud; art without a soul is like prayer without conviction\".\n\nAlongside the art school, within its different tracks, studios opened for the production of jewelry, tapestries, paintings and Jewish ceremonial objects that were sold in Jerusalem shops. Schatz's vision included the idea of cross pollination between the various parts of the institution. \"There is a practical side to the study of art\", Schatz wrote, \"The school always needs new drawings for the rugs and silver artifacts. Thus we need a series of artists who have absorbed the prevailing spirit of the school within their art, having studied with the expert teacher who embodies this spirit\".\n\nIn the art created in Bezalel during this period Jewish and religious motifs dominate, for example, descriptions of the holy places, scenes from the Diaspora, etc. The works are decorative and heavily engraved in the \"Eastern\" style. The descriptions sought a connection between the Biblical period, the Return to Zion [from the Babylonian exile] and the Hasmonean Kingdom of Israel [140-37 BC], and the Zionist aspirations for the development of a Jewish settlement, driven by ideological and Zionist sentiments. The artists did this by borrowing historical motifs they perceived as \"Jewish\" motifs and designs they perceived as \"Eastern\". Typography occupied a central place in their designs. Sometimes the text even became the main element in their compositions.\n\nThe work of Schatz himself consisted mostly of small-scale sculptures of Jewish subjects, as well as reliefs and memorial plaques in honor of various Zionist leaders. His most famous sculpture is Mattathias (1894), which was influenced by Renaissance sculpture and in particular by the sculpture of Donatello. A different spirit entirely brought Samuel Hirszenberg (1865–1908), to the institution to join the Bezalel teaching staff. Hirszenberg brought European academic painting to Bezalel, and painted Jewish subjects within this framework. The artist Ze'ev Raban created many graphic works in the spirit of Art Nouveau, also known as \"Jugendstil\" [\"Youth Style\" in German]. The subjects of these works were \"Orientalist\" landscapes of the Holy Land and figures from the Bible drawn in the Neoclassical style. Among other well-known artists who taught at Bezalel were Ephraim Moses Lilien, Meir Gur-Arieh, Arnold (Aaron) Lachovsky, Erich (Arie) Goldberg, Adolph (Avraham) Berman, Shmuel Levi (Ophel), and others.\n\nDue to financial difficulties and political infighting the school closed in 1929. The museum, which housed many works of art, remained in the Bezalel building. This collection eventually served as the basis for the Art Wing of the Israel Museum in Jerusalem.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century some of the Bezalel students began to rebel against the rigid artistic tradition that was followed in the institution and turned to more \"subjective\" art. this Period often called The \"Tower of David Period\". One of the most prominent of these artists was the sculptor Avraham Melnikov. Melnikov suggested a different formal approach, culled from within the art of the Ancient East. This approach was offered as a replacement for the European art forms that dominated Bezalel during the reign of Schatz and Lilien.\n\nThe monument \"The Roaring Lion\" which Melnikov erected at Tel Hai, designed in the \"Assyrian-Mesopotamian\" style, reflected Melnikov's aesthetic ideal. \"For many generations\", Melnikov asserted, \"the Jews were cut off from the figurative tradition in art; there are many ways to express artistic taste, but the taste that was in fashion was European art based on Greek and Roman culture, and as long as Athens was the inspiration for art in Europe, the Jew was instinctively excluded from it\".\n\nOther young artists offered alternative artistic approaches, turning to modern art, of which Schatz and Melnikov strongly disapproved. This showed up also in the exhibitions they organized. In 1920, for example, the \"Hebrew Artists Association\" was formed; it organized the annual exhibition, and during the years 1923 to 1928 held an \"Exhibition of Land of Israel Artists\" in the Tower of David in Jerusalem's Old City, organized by Joseph Zaritsky, Shmuel (Ophel) Levy, Melnikov, and others. In these exhibitions art in the \"Bezalel Art\" style were exhibited next to art influenced by the European Post-Impressionist and Expressionist styles. Other exhibitions of Modern Art were held in the hut attached to the Ohel theater in Tel Aviv between 1926 and 1929.\n\nAnother organization of Israel artists was called \"Egged\" (The Amalgamation) and included artists such as Arieh (Leo) Lubin, Pinchas Litvinovsky, Sionah Tagger, Chana Orloff, Yossef Zaritsky, Haim Gliksberg, Reuven Rubin, Arieh Allweil, and Nachum Gutman. Some of its members, like Orloff and Tagger, displayed influences from French Cubism in their works. The group held an exhibition in 1929 in an apartment on Allenby Street in Tel Aviv, opposite the Mograbi Theater. Another exhibition of modern art was held in 1930 in the Tel Aviv Museum and was called \"The Beginnings of Modernism in Israeli Painting, 1920-1930\".\n\nTo a significant extent the modern painters began to create a \"Hebrew\" version of Post-Impressionist painting using a palette of light colors, an attraction to expressive brushstrokes, and a tendency toward naïve, flat painting. In addition to traditional subjects such as portraits, many artists depicted the Land of Israel in landscapes that added a romantic perspective to their subjects. This style of these works is sometimes called the \"Land of Israel School\".\n\nAmong the artists identified with this style, the artist Nachum Gutman stands out. Gutman painted many depictions of the city of Tel Aviv, but also of the Land of Israel's Arab citizens, many of whom he met with in Jaffa. His famous painting \"Resting at Noon\" (1926) depicts Fellahin (Arab farmers) resting in the field from their day's labor. An examination of Gutman's style in these years shows a tendency toward the simplification of forms, in the tradition of expressive painting, and toward the use of strong colors. Some critics feel that this naïve style of painting reveals Gutman's romantic approach towards the landscapes of the Land of Israel and its Arab inhabitants.\n\nThis approach is also typical of other artists of this period. Sionah Tagger, for example, created a description of the \"Railway Crossing at Herzl Street\" (1920) in an expressive style that emphasized the modernity of the new Hebrew city. Israel Paldi (Feldman) depicted scenes of the half-empty country in a palette of bright shades and colors. Another artist, Abel Pann, expressed this romantic approach by focusing on subjects from the Bible depicted in illustrations that were fantastic in style.\n\nReuven Rubin also frequently depicted the Jewish existence in the Land of Israel. For example in \"Sophie, Bukharin Jewess\" (1924) and \"Dancers from Miron\" (1926) his tendency towards flatness and a decorative style stand out, showing the influence of modern art and even of Art Nouveau. In \"First Fruits\" (1923) Rubin presents figures typical of the 1920s, interwoven with a powerful and fantastic element. As in other works of his from this period, in \"First Fruits\" he shows a worldview that combines Zionism and Orientalism in one basket; thus, he depicts Jews and Arabs, pioneer couples and immigrants from Yemen and Bedouin shepherds in their native dress holding round fruit: a pomegranate, oranges, a watermelon, and bunch of bananas. And next to them local animals: goats and a camel.\n\nIn spite of his distance from the center of artistic activity in the Land of Israel, the works of Hermann Struck, who immigrated to Israel in 1922, when he was already a mature artist with a worldwide reputation, also display some of the iconographic characteristics of visual art in the young Land of Israel. Palm trees and empty landscapes are central themes of his work. Along with paintings of the city of Jerusalem and its residents the special Land of Israel light, which so preoccupied its young artists, is translated in his prints into a sharp contrast which emphasizes the dark images on the light background.\n\nIn 1919 the British Mandate government extended an invitation to a group of Armenian artists, survivors of the Armenian genocide, to renovate the tiles of the Dome of the Rock. This experiment reflected the British interest in traditional art in the spirit of the Arts and Crafts Movement. Armenian ceramic art began in the 15th century in the Turkish cities of Iznik and Kutahya, but the encounter with ancient Land of Israel art and with Christian motifs gave rise to a unique artistic synthesis.\n\nThe central artist during these first years was David Ohannessian (1884–1953), who specialized in decorative ceramics for structures and monuments, many of them at the invitation of the British government. Among the principal works Ohannessian created in Jerusalem were: tiles for the American Colony Hotel (1923), the fountain base for St. John's Ophthalmic Hospital, the domed entry of the Rockefeller Museum, etc. Among the motifs appearing in his decorations are cypress trees, tulips, and grapevines, all of which are typical of traditional Ottoman art. As he transplanted his art to Jerusalem and continued to develop it, he added images inspired by the local traditions and Armenian illuminated manuscripts—frequently using the Bird Mosaic in objects and tile panels.\n\nThe artists Megherdich Karakashian and Neshan Balian, who in 1922 left Ohannessian's studio and founded a joint workshop, developed an independent style in which figurative images foreign to traditional Turkish art appeared. For example the two of them used imagery from ancient mosaics found in the Land of Israel, such as the Bird Mosaic from a 6th-century Armenian chapel or the mosaic from Khirbat al Mafjar. Often these images were imbued with a Christian theological interpretation. Their joint workshop remained active until 1964, when Stepan Karakashian and Marie Balian, the heirs of the founding artists, set up two independent workshops that both used designs that had been developed in the past and created some new ones of their own.\n\nThe return of Jewish artists from Europe in the 1930s to Mandatory Palestine gave rise to a variety of influences from modern art on art in the Land of Israel. At the same time it should be noted that these influences did not motivate the artists toward Avant garde and abstract art in their painting and sculpture. Two of the strongest influences were French art and German art. Gideon Efrat claimed that these influences created two different trends in the plastic arts. While the \"Parisian\" influence was expressed in a \"dynamic softness that melts heavy structures\", German art and the \"New Objectivity\" (Neue Sachlichkeit) which brought with it a static and sculptured monumentality.\n\nThe most typical influence of the European avant garde is evident in international architectural styles in the Land of Israel, brought by architects who were graduates of the \"Bauhaus\". The considerable influence of French realism can also be found in the works of a group of artists who were influenced by the trend towards realism of French sculptors of the beginning of the 20th century, such as Auguste Rodin, Aristide Maillol, and others. This symbolic message in content and form appears also in the works of artists of the Land of Israel group, such as Moses Sternschuss, Rafael Chamizer, Moshe Ziffer, Joseph Constant (Constantinovsky), and Dov Feigin, most of whom studied at some point in France.\n\nOne sculptor who was influenced by Cubism was Zeev Ben Zvi who, in 1928, after completing his studies at Bezalel, went to study in France. Upon his return he served for a short period as a teacher of sculptor at Bezalel, and at the \"New Bezalel\". In 1932 Ben Zvi had his first exhibit at the national antiquities museum, \"Bezalel\", and a year later he had an exhibit at the Tel Aviv Museum. Instead of making use of Cubism as a means of subverting the artistic object, Ben Zvi's sculptures use Cubism as a means of intensifying the feeling of monumentality of the image. In the work of artists such as Chana Orloff and Shalom Sebba as well, the Cubist language in which they shaped their works did not lead them to abandon the realism and the boundaries of traditional representation. In his well-known work, \"The Fleece\" (1947), for example, Sebba used the Cubist language to intensify the monumentality of his images, while using angles of observation inspired by photography.\n\nEven more striking avant garde trends began to appear in the work of the Jewish photographers, most of whom were influenced by the German avant garde and the expressionists of the 1920s and 1930s. Photography in the land of Israel developed under the encouragement and guidance of the Zionist establishment, under the auspices of groups such as the Jewish National Fund, which commissioned photographs that would spread the Zionist message. Artists such as , Yaakov (Jack) Rosner, and others, documented the Zionist enterprise and the Jewish settlement, sometimes using photographic angles, compositions, and views which took their inspiration from Soviet Communism in Russia. Other photographers sought to use these techniques for artistic or commercial photography.\n\nHelmar Lerski created photographic portraits in typical expressionist style, expressed in his use of light and in the angle of the photograph. In 1936 Larski created 175 photographs of man, which attempted to encompass his personality in its entirety, using a technique called \"metamorphosis by means of light\"; this technique made use of mirrors, and he even taught it in workshops on the roof of his home in Tel Aviv.\nAnother artist, Alfons Himmelreich, created advertising photographs which emphasized industrial commercialism by using a distortion of the usual standards, close ups, and light for emphasis, as a designer of commercialism. Among the photographers who worked in a more artistic tradition were Richard Levy (Ereel), who created photomontages of semi-abstract figures; Tim (Nahum) Gidal, and the sisters Charlotte and Gerda Meyer, who specialized in architectural photography.\n\nThe intensification of the Israeli-Palestinian dispute influenced the works of Arab photographers with a developed political consciousness, such as Ali Zaarur, Chalil Rissas, and others. They acted on their own or as agents of various information agencies, and created photographs in journalistic style. Only from the 1990s did researchers begin to investigate these works as part of historiography, and as the visual representation of the past, with political, ideological, and nationalistic goals in mind.\n\nIn 1943 the poet Yonatan Ratosh (1908–1981) published \"Epistle to Hebrew Youth\", the proclamation, the manifesto, the first written communication of \"The Caananites\", a literary and artistic movement that had been active for some time. In this essay Ratosh called on Hebrew speaking youth to become a buffer against Judaism. He declared that between the youth that had settled in the Land of Israel and the Jews of the Diaspora there was no true connection. This became the characteristic cry of the Caananites, whose members proposed a return to the mythological past, in order to create a Hebrew–speaking nation with an independent identity.\n\nThe visual expression of this aspiration was the use of archaic forms and styles, under the influence of Fertile Crescent art. This tendency reflected, to a significant degree, the interest in primitive art and sculpture that was prevalent in Europe at the beginning of the 20th century. Often this pro-Archaic style was an expression of symbolism.\n\nOne of the most significant artists of the \"Canaanite\" movement was the sculptor Itzhak Danziger. He returned to the Land of Israel in 1938 after studying in Britain, and demonstrated a new national outlook in his work which, in contrast to what was acceptable in Europe, was full of sensuality and Eastern exoticism. This art fit the feelings and sense of identity of much of the population of the Jewish settlement in the Land of Israel. The dream of Danziger's contemporaries, writes Amos Keinan after Danziger's death, was \"to unite with the land of Israel and the earth of which it is composed, to create a specific image with recognizable signs, something that is from here and is us, and to embed in history the mark of that something special that is us\". In addition to nationalism, his sculptures demonstrated an expressionist-symbolist style similar in spirit to British sculpture of the same period.\n\nDanziger opened a sculpture studio in the yard of his father's hospital in Tel Aviv, and there he critiqued and taught young sculptors such as Benjamin Tammuz, Kosso Eloul, Yechiel Shemi, Mordechai Gumpel, etc. In addition to his students, his studio became a popular meeting place for artists from other fields as well. In this studio Danziger created his first significant works, the sculptures \"Nimrod\" (1939) and \"Shabazia\" (1939). When \"Nimrod\" was unveiled it became the focus of an important dispute in Land of Israel cultural circles; the sculpture depicts the figure of Nimrod, the Biblical hunter according to Jewish religious literature, as a lean youth, naked and uncircumcised, a sword clutched in his hand and a falcon on his shoulder. The sculpture harked back to the earlier cultures of the Assyrians, the Egyptians, and the Greeks, while at the same time it showed similarities to the European sculpture of the time. The sculpture expressed a combination of homoerotic beauty and pagan idolatry. This combination was at the center of criticism in religious circles in the Jewish settlement. The criticism against \"Nimrod\" and the Canaanites was heard not only in religious circles, which objected to the pagan and idolatrous aspects of the work, but also in secular circles among those who objected to the rejection of \"Jewishness\". To a significant extent \"Nimrod\" intensified a dispute that had existed prior to its appearance. At the same time other voices called it the new model for the \"New Jewish Man\". The newspaper Boker [Morning] wrote in 1942 that \"Nimrod is not just a sculpture. It is flesh of our flesh, spirit of our spirit. It is a milestone and it is a monument. It is the apotheosis of the vision and daring and youthful rebellion that distinguishes an entire generation…Nimrod will be young forever\".\n\nIn spite of the fact that Danziger later had his reservations about \"Nimrod\" as a model for Israeli culture, many artists adopted the \"Canaanite\" style and point of view in their sculpture. Figures resembling idols and images in \"primitive\" style appeared in Israeli art until the 1970s. Furthermore the influence of the Canaanite movement was evident in the art of the \"New Horizons\" group.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s Israeli artists began exploring the idiom of the Avant-garde current in Europe and the United States. Immigrant artists brought trends to Israel, and influential Israeli artists spent stints in Europe, especially in France. Some of these artists sought a universal style, while others sought to develop a uniquely Israeli avant-garde, in the spirit of nationalistic socialism and Zionism.\n\nThe germination of the \"New Horizons\" (\"Ofakim Hadashim\") movement can be found in a group of artists who mounted an exhibition in Tel Aviv's Habima national theater in December 1942, under the name \"the Group of Eight\", But the group crystallized into the dominant artistic movement only after the founding of the state in 1948. Members of the school included Arie Aroch, Zvi Meirowitch, Avraham Naton (Natanson), Avigdor Stematsky and Yehezkel Streichman. The work of sculptor Dov Feigin also appeared in the catalog of the 1942 exhibition, though it was not displayed. In February 1947 five of the original members of the group joined Joseph Zaritsky for an exhibit called \"The Group of Seven\" at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art. Members of the group stated that \"The group is based in modernism, especially French, yet seeks a unique style that expresses our own reality\".\n\nFor these artists, this was not only a statement of philosophy, but a practical work plan. Zaritsky, who served as chairman of the League of Painters and Sculptors in the Land of Israel, opposed the league's philosophy of equality among artists. In 1948, at the time of the opening of the artists' house that was to become the League's permanent home, he was delegated to select works for the Bienniale in Venice. His selections caused such an outrage among the members that he was ousted from his position. He walked out with a group of artists, and founded an alternative movement, the \"New Horizons\". On 9 November 1948, the Tel Aviv Museum of Art opened the first exhibit bearing the movement's name. Among the artists showing were Pinchas Abramovich, Marcel Janco, Aharon Kahana, Yohanan Simon, Avshalom Okashi and Moshe Castel, as well as movement founders Zaritsky, Streichman and Feigin.\n\nThe group sought a style that reflected the striving for Zionism and Modernism. This style was largely dictated by the leading artists of the group – Zaritsky, Stematsky Mairovich and Streichman. In practice, this style was a variant of European modernism. The style has been called \"lyrical abstract\", but in fact, there was little purely abstract art, but rather works rooted in the local visual landscape. This essentially figurative style was pushed toward the abstract by bold brush strokes, and a strong use of bright colors typical of the \"Land of Israel\" style, reflecting the strong Mediterranean light. Formats were generally rather small, and the style was similar to European abstract art before the second World War, akin to the art of Wassily Kandinsky, and unlike the abstract art prevalent in the United States at the time.\n\nFor example, in his series \"Yehiam\" (1949–1952), Zaritsky depicts scenes from the establishment of Kibbutz Yehiam in northern Israel. The early paintings in this series (mostly watercolors) depict the natural landscapes of the region, while the later paintings are (mostly oil) abstractions of these earlier scenes. This progression, contends art critic and curator Mordecai Omer, reflects Zaritsky's belief that external visual reality is the basis of artistic originality.\n\nZvi Mairovich, a prominent members of Okakim Hadashim he painted in the abstract lyric style but unlike his colleagues Mairovich was more inclined to a German rather than a French pallette. Hs bold use of black and reds particularly in the gouaches. The big breakthrough was in oil pastels, that only he made in large format. Using a deep space photo surface rather than a flat paper was pioneering moment.\n\nOthers in the group, however, deviated from this style. Marcel Janco, of international fame for his involvement in the Dada movement in Europe in the 1930s, did not adopt this approach to abstraction; rather his art uses European Cubist and Expressionist styles to create a Jewish-Zionist narrative. Moshe Castel, also, went through a transformation during the 1950s from abstraction to expressionism characteristic of the Canaanist movement.\n\nIn the field of sculpture, the group introduced new media. Yechiel Shemi, Dov Feigin, and, after a sojourn in Britain, Itzhak Danziger, introduced welded steel as a new medium. This new form freed these artists from the figurative character of stone and wood carving, for a more purely abstract oeuvre. Here, too, however, there is frequent reference to the Canaanite figurativeness and symbolism.\n\nIndeed, during the 1950s, the \"New Horizons\" group tended more and more toward the abstract, and away from reliance on the figurative. Zaritsky led this shift, which was rooted in what he saw as a guiding ideology. Some members of the group, however, rejected this ideology, and eventually quit the movement. These included Janco, Alexander Bogen, Aharon Kahana and Yehiel Simon.\n\nWhile the abstract and secular works of the New Horizons group had profound influence on the course of art in Israel, they were nonetheless considered at the time to be on the fringes of mainstream art, which was mostly figurative and often bearing explicit Jewish and Zionist messages. This explicitly nationalist trend in Israeli art was denounced by its opponents as \"regionalism\". New Horizon critics, who maintained that art was international and universal, were opposed by the ideology of the Bezalel School at the time. Mordechai Ardon, head of Bezalel, wrote in 1954, \"Every artist, like every citizen, must serve his country in heart and in soul\". Artists like Simon Zabar, Moshe Gat, and Ruth Schloss created works that reflected national social tensions, a clearly socialist political slant, and glorification of the worker. Others, like Naftali Bezem and Miron Sima, Moshe Bromberg (Bar-Am) depicted the dramatic events of the period – World War II and the Holocaust. Their works were explicitly Jewish, while adopting the styles of the European avant-garde of the early 20th century.\n\nThe quest for a connection between the artist and society is reflected also in the monumental works on the walls of public buildings that were commissioned beginning in the 1950s. Examples include the mosaics of Mordechai Gumpel on the walls of public buildings in Petach Tikva, Holon and elsewhere, that depict Jewish settlers building the nation, in a style drawing much on the Canaanists; or Yohanan Simon's mural of kibbutz youth at Kibbutz Gan Shmuel, showing youth living the socialist dream.\n\nNew Horizons artists, too, despite their avowed adherence to a philosophy of universality, often expressed in their works sentiments of nationalism, Zionism, and socialism. For example, Zaritsky, one of the leading ideologues of the universalist school, produced series of paintings focusing on Israeli kibbutzim – his series \"Yehiam\", and a similar series on Naan (a kibbutz in central Israel), 1950–1952. Both these series include abstractions of the Israeli landscape. Zvi Mairovich one of the founders of New Horizons produced a series of large oil paintings called Mizpe Ramon focousing on the Israeli deseret. Sculptor Dov Feigin produced \"Wheat Sheaves\" in 1956, and Dadaist Janco painted \"Soldiers\", \"Air raid Alarms\" and \"Maabarot\" (jerry-built communities housing new Jewish immigrants in the 1950s). Some of the New Horizons artists belonged to the \"Center for Advanced Culture\" run by the Socialist-Zionist youth movement \"Hashomer Hatzair\". This activity culminated in the founding of the artists' village Ein Hod by a group of artists headed by Marcel Janco. There, Janco hoped to found a new socialist and artistic utopia.\n\nMordechai Ardon's work stands out from that of other New Horizons artists for dealing with the mystical and historical, rather than concentrating on the present. His canvases often depict episodes from Jewish history, from Biblical scenes to the Holocaust. For example, his painting \"Gate of Light\" (1953), shows the tree of life, a symbol of great Biblical and Kabbalistic meaning, within a surrealistic landscape reminiscent of the work of Paul Klee and others.\n\nEver since, surrealism has played a significant role in Israeli art, and some of its most gifted and influential proponents include artists like Zeev Kun, Samuel Bak, Baruch Elron, Joel Tal-Mor, as well as Yosl Bergner.\n\nDuring the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, the work of the New Horizons group influenced new artistic trends in Israel. Some artists, like Yechiel Shemi and Aviva Uri, continued the work of the group after it dissolved, mostly working in a non-objective abstract mode.\n\nNew Horizons' last exhibit was in 1963. A number of young artists joined the exhibit, including Raffi Lavie, Moshe Kupferman and Igael Tumarkin. In 1964, a new group of about 30 artists formed, called \"Tazpit\" (\"Outlook\"), This group carried the torch of abstract art into the 1960s and 1970s.\nOne of the artists on the fringe of the \"New Horizons\" group who developed a new style was Arie Aroch. In contrast to the ideal of the rest of the group, Aroch's works showed, in addition to lyric abstraction, a tendency toward substantive content. For example, \"Red House (How Are Things at Home?)\" (1960), \"Sarajevo Manuscript\" (1966), and others hinted at content of Jewish historical significance along with the influence of the Pop Art of the time. In his works \"The High Commissioner\" (1966) and \"Agripas Street\" (1964), for instance, the many interpretations these works received included widespread perception of them as historical paintings in which Judaism and Jewish tradition are given a place of prominence. These paintings in particular, and Aroch's work in general, are generally viewed as the antithesis of the \"Caananite\" approach seen, for example, in Itzhak Danziger's early works.\n\nAviva Uri created expressive abstract drawings with motifs and images that called to mind birds, circus images, and landscapes. Another artist, Lea Nikel, painted highly colored abstracts in the style of French art of that period. Avigdor Arikha also painted in Israel during those years according to the principles outlined by the \"New Horizons\" group. Arikha painted large works in dark colors until he emigrated to Europe, where he began to produce small figurative paintings.\nAbstract art merged with conceptual art in Israel in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nMoshe Kupferman, who had studied painting with Chaim Atar (Aptaker), Zaritsky, Alexander Bogen and others developed an identifiable style characterized by reduced use of color, and by a process of erasing and wiping the drawing over and over until it formed an expressive grid. For many years Kupferman refused to identify his works with any external themes, in spite of critics' attempts to label his paintings a reaction to the Holocaust. Alternatively, his works have been described as a phenomenological process: as layers constructed in a dialectical process which accrues \"life experience as the layers accumulate\".\n\nUntil the 1970s, mainstream Israeii art dealt with a broad artistic and personal spectrum but, for the most part, ignored political issues. Even artists who portrayed cultural or Jewish content in their works were considered anachronistic by the artistic establishment of the time.\n\nIn the 1960s American artistic influences began to reach Israel, especially abstract expressionism, pop art, and later, even the art pauvre of conceptual art. In addition to bringing new artistic forms, these influences also introduced a direct engagement with political and social issues. Events of The Six-Day War and The Yom Kippur War intensified these influences and led to a variety of politically charged artistic expressions which became the trademark of an entire generation of younger artists. Under the influence of American conceptual art, there even developed among Israeli artists a tendency to emphasize the dimension of artistic creativity, that is, the \"ars poetica\" discourse, and how it is perceived by the viewer of art within society. In this spirit, artistic activity in Israel was often seen to be part of the country's social-political reality.\n\nAmong the first artists who began to express these artistic influences in their works was the sculptor and painter Igael Tumarkin, whose art expressed engagement with burning political issues. At the encouragement of Yona Fischer and Sam Dubiner, Tumarkin returned to Israel in 1961 from East Berlin, where he had been the set manager of the Berliner Ensemble theater company, under the direction of Berthold Brecht. His early works, such as \"Panic Over Trousers\" (1961) were created as expressive assemblages. His sculpture \"Take Me Under Your Wings\"(1964–65) (the first line in the well-known poem by Hayyim Nahman Bialik), for example, Tumarkin created a sort of steel casing with rifle barrels sticking out of it. The sculpture's mixture of nationalism, lyricism, and even eroticism became Tumarkin's hallmark in the 1960s and 1970s. This technique can be seen also in his famous sculpture \"He Walked in the Fields\" (1967) (the same name as Moshe Shamir's famous story), which protested against the image of the \"mythological Sabra\"; Tumarkin strips off his \"skin\" and exposes his torn innards from which weapons and ammunition protrude and his stomach, which contains a round bomb that looks suspiciously like a uterus. During the 1970s Tumarkin's art evolved to include new materials influenced by \"Earth Art\", such as dirt, tree branches, and pieces of cloth. In this way Tumarkin sought to sharpen the focus of his political protest against what he saw as the one-sided approach of Israeli society toward the Arab-Israeli conflict.\n\nAfter the Six-Day War Israeli art started to gravitate away from describing war and its symbolic content. Tumarkin's sculpture still dealt with it, but began to express it in a variety of more abstract ways.\n\nIn the mid-1960s a group called \"10+\" appeared on the scene. This group, led by the artist Raffi Lavie, sought an alternative to the \"lyric abstraction\" of the New Horizons group. The most important innovations of this school were importing pop art and avant garde art into Israel, developing an unpolished style, and combining photography, Readymade, and collage. Among the many artists in the group were Buky Schwartz, Ziona Shimshi, Pinchas Eshet, Tuvia Beeri, Uri Lifschitz, and others. Since it ostensibly lacked a clear ideology, the group focused on organizing a series of exhibits in galleries that tried to emphasize the idea of the blurring of distinctions between different kinds of media in contemporary art. In addition, the group was a pioneering force in the introduction of video art into Israel. Although \"10+\" officially disbanded in 1970, the members of the group carried on its spirit and its style, taking their final form from a group that revolved around the art school \"The College\" (ha-Midrashah). The esthetic principle of this group came to be called \"The Want of Matter\".\n\nThe theoretical underpinning of this group was established by the curator Sara Breitberg-Semel, in the exhibit \"The Want of Matter: A Quality in Israeli Art\", which took place in March 1986 in the Tel Aviv Museum. The roots of this style could be found, according to her, in the wide acceptance of European and American art in Israel, especially Pop Art, Art pauvre, and Conceptual Art. These influences were expressed by the use of industrial materials, such as plywood, industrial paint, collages and assemblages, etc. Another element, which in Breitberg-Semel's opinion was no less central, was the \"non-aesthetic\" approach, the roots of which could allegedly be found in the Jewish tradition of talmudic studies, which places text, and not form, at the center of culture.\n\nAccording to Breitberg-Semel, \"The Want of Matter\" began with the painting of the \"New Horizons\" group. The members of this group developed a style that came to be called the \"lyrical abstract\", within the framework of which the painters created an abstracted form of reality with expressionistic overtones. The works of their followers, Aviva Uri and Arie Aroch, used a national aesthetic model called \"The Want of Matter\", utilizing materials in their art that were compatible with their ascetic outlook and combining abstraction with an implied iconography.\n\nVisually, \"Want of Matter\" style distilled its characteristics from these diverse influences, preferring painting to three-dimensional sculpture. Overall, this style can be summed up as focusing on the use of low-cost materials identified with the establishment of Israel, such as plywood, cardboard, collages photographs arranged as collages, industrial paints, and writing and scribbling within the work. The use of these materials gave an intentionally humble appearance to the surface of the paintings, a look which was meant to add a dimension of criticism by the artists toward Israeli society.\n\nIn an article accompanying \"The Want of Matter\" exhibition, Breitberg-Semel focuses on Raffi Lavie as a typical representative of this style. Lavie's work \"typifies the Tel Aviv spirit\", which is European-Zionist modernism mixed with neglect and abandonment. Over the years the image of Raffi Lavie himself, dressed in sloppy short pants and rubber flip-flops, intentionally \"native\" and \"Sabra\" in his appearance, was displayed as the expression of this problematic aesthetic approach. Lavie's paintings, which include \"childish\" scribble, collages of magazine pictures, posters advertising Tel Aviv cultural events, stickers with the words \"head\" or \"geranium\" printed on them, and most recognizably, sawed-off sheets of plywood painted chalky white, came to epitomize \"The Want of Matter\" style.\n\nIn addition to crystallizing a clear visual language, Lavie was careful to keep the discussion of his work on a formalist level. In interviews he consistently avoided all interpretation of his work outside the sphere of its \"artistic language\" in modernist form. In spite of clear iconographic imagery in his work, Lavie insisted that these images were of no historical importance. Furthermore, according to Lavie and Breitberg-Semel, the use of collages and other materials that lacked the \"halo\" of artistic approval, were meant to undercut and undermine the significance of the visual images. Lavie's students continued the formalist approach in their art, consistently relating to the modernist tradition, but in their works visual images began to appear which made it difficult to maintain Lavie's didactic separation of form and \"content\".\n\nYair Garbuz's connection with Lavie dates from the time he was a very young man. For a number of years Lavie was Garbuz's private teacher. [44] Later Garbuz went from being a pupil to being a senior teacher in \"The College\". Garbuz's work from these years combines characteristics of the Zionist ethos, as reflected in popular culture, with political and social criticism. His two-dimensional works from the 1970s include a mix of newspaper photos, documentary photographs, texts and other objects, combined in compositions that have no clear hierarchy. Some of his works, such as \"The Evenings (Arabs) Pass By Quietly\" (1979) and \"The Arab Village in Israel Very Much Resembles the Life of our Forefathers in Ancient Times\" (1981), criticized stereotypes rampant in Israeli society. In his installation \" If not a Giant Then at Least in His Garden\" (1981), Garbuz created an environment saturated with photographic images, some of which are enlarged and turned into sculptures in space. Between the images are photographs of new immigrant transit camps and development towns, of a father reading the newspaper Davar to his daughter, etc. In the background a recording of a toy whistle can be heard creating the noise of a \"toy forest\".\n\nMichal Na'aman's works of the 1970s used photography to create collages. In these works Na'aman created images which emphasized the inadequacy of descriptive language and vision, and in this way, showed the possibility for different and imaginative interpretations of visual representations. The practical implications of a debate or of an axiomatic phrase demonstrated for her the failure of descriptive language. Against the background of the visual dimension of \"The Want of Matter\" Style, texts written in commercial style or in handwriting appeared, reflecting the semiotic collapse of image presentation. Examples of this approach can be found in \"The Loyal Fish and the Bird\" (1977) or \"The Message According to the Bird\" (1977), in which Na'aman merges fish and bird images into hybrid monsters. In other works, such as her series \"The Blue Retouching\" (1975) we see a protest against society's accepted moral and esthetic principles.\n\nIn spite of clear feminist connections, in Yehudit Levin's works, we see a more personal and less intellectual approach than in the works of other students of Raffi Lavie. Many of Levin's works are made of plywood and were constructed at the end of the 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s. In these works Levin created compositions of sawed and painted plywood, often accompanied by photographs leaning up against the wall. The names of these works, such as \"Bicycle\" (1977) or \"The Princess in the Palace\" (1978), suggest a domestic connection. Even though these works are three-dimensional, their main interest lies in the complex connection between the drawing and the visible area of the work. The work \"bursts out \" of its frame and spreads out into space.\n\nConceptual Post-Minimalist Installation artists Avital Geva, Joshua Neustein, Micha Ullman, Buky Schwartz, Benni Efrat, Zvi Goldstein, Yochevet Weinfeld, Adina Baron, Nahum Tevet, Or Ner, Michael Gitlin, Pinhas Cohen Gan discarded the conventions of taste, the heroics of authenticity, and provincial narrative. By sheer force and power of evading ‘taste’ while yet remaining in the context of art, art could be redefined, its field expanded and the artist liberated to achieve unique existence and value. (see Clement Greenberg)\n\nThe axioms of that 1970s group were indifference to Zionist aesthetics; a general distaste for regionalism, national myths, and individual heroics. Avital Geva’s Exchange of Cultures brought Arab Villagers and Kibbutzniks to exchange books with one another. To define a purpose for art, he moved his activity into the Greenhouse to grow vegetables and fish ponds with resistant students, to make art an educational tool.\n\nUllman’s Berlin Library created a standard for memorial sculpture. His negative space sculptures were often made by digging under ground. Buky Schwartz made perspective correction and earliest video art in the country. Neustein (in collaboration with Marx and Batlle) made the first environmental work. The Jerusalem River Project 1971 was a sound river at the edge of the Judean desert. Boots at Bet Omanim Jerusalem was an agglomeration –five truck loads- of army boots left by various armies in the region, piled into random heaps.\nJoshua Neustein's five Ash Cities were geographic ambivalences realized in five museums in the USA, Germany, Poland and Israel. The Ash cities were on-the-floor relief maps made with tons of ashes and a chandelier.\n\nEfrat's \"Ararat Express\" 1986 is a procession of horses passed through the streets. Each horse carried a television set on its saddle. A documentary film projected on the television screens showed throngs of people displaced by disaster, famine or war, wandering.\n\nEfrat, Neustein and Gitlin also produced methodical, basic, severe graphics that re-defined the materials, tools and viewer's roles. Efrat's double silks and shadow pieces dealt with the concrete aspect of pictorial surfaces. Neustein's torn paper works, Erased Drawings, Magnetic Fields, Steel Wool, Carbon Copy Drawings adhered to unity and even uniformity of making objects or images. He transformed drawing into a three-dimensional practice Yigal Zalmona, Josef Maschek, Robert Pincus Witten and other international critics called that type of art \"epistemic abstraction\". Gitlin hacked plywood boards with the strategy devised by Neustein of removal and replacement. Gitlin's sculptures, however, were more architecturally oriented. Nahum Tevet's work summarized by James Trainor: The basic building blocks that comprise Tevet's formal vocabulary of sculptural units, for both his small wall works and the large, sprawling, encyclopedically heroic sculptural installations, are simple, verging on the Platonically archetypal—the table, the chair, the box, the boat hull, the rectilinear plane, the book-like block, the framework armature, etc. As Sarit Shapira wrote: In any possible context, they identify as mutants of a territory, or as agents of de-territorialization. The quasi-modeled arrangement of these works presents what is not a model of a given production mechanism of objects, or what will always distinguish itself from such a model; at most, this is a model-proposal for a mechanism of objects that does not yet exist. For this purpose, Tevet replicates his items in limited series (the number of items replicated in each work is also limited, as is the number of times that Tevet replicates entire works or major parts of them), thus distancing them from any automatic and motoric—that is, obedient and “blind”—reproductive mechanism.\n\nThese dozen artists were not an organized movement, there was no manifesto but rather there were strong opinions and an ideology, a timely kinship that found a common desire for a collective agenda. Sometimes they were referred to as Post Minimal, or Conceptual, to elaborate Israeli visual culture and escape hegemony by a single group. Their hallmark public exposures were in five shows: Concept + Information 1971 (Musag + Informazia), Beyond Drawing 1974, The Kibbutz Ashdod exhibition Mikum Kivun 1978, the 1970s Tel Aviv Museum 2008 \"Art and Language\", 2006 Tel Aviv Museum \"Eyes of the Nation\" by Ellen Ginton 2008.\nThe perception of \"The Want of Matter\" as the \"center\" of Israeli art that grew up in the wake of Breitberg-Semel's influence, pushed many artists to the side of that center. Gideon Ofrat, who in those years was not only an art critic and independent curator, but also a partner in various artistic initiatives, set up in opposition to the \"Tel Aviv School\", \"The New Jerusalem School\", a term whose origin lay in a Christian metaphysical interpretation of the city of Jerusalem. The central difference between the definition of this group and the \"Tel Aviv School\", according to Ariella Azoulay's interpretation, lay in the difference in the way they defined the status of art in relation to public space. While the Tel Aviv School tended to create its art within traditional definitions, the \"Jerusalem\" artists sought to establish an eruv (a ritual enclosure) between art and life. A different interpretation, formulated by Itamar Levy, saw in these two approaches two dialectical concepts which opposed \"conceptuality\" to \"picturesqueness\", universal abstraction to specific locality.\n\nAnother trait of this artistic school is the influence of conceptual art and innovative media such as the installation and the performance or display. It is worth noting that at this time the boundaries between all these types of media were blurred, and the use of terms like \"activity\" and \"concept\", instead of terms like \"installation\" and \"display\", which were coined only in 1976, referred more to the intentions of the artist than to the final artistic result. Photography as well, which from the 1970s also began to be a means of expression for artists, was seen as a tool for combining images in conceptual art, and as a means for documenting installations and displays. At the same time, and in distinction from American art of the time, only a small amount of the art created in Israel represented conceptual art that was entirely minimilistic or \"concrete, \" that is, art the entire reason for being of which was to negate the definition of art as representation or imitation. Among the artists whose work in part did represent this approach were Benni Efrat, Buky Schwartz, Michael Gitlin, and others.\n\nEllen Ginton, in her article \"The Eyes of the Nation: Visual Art in a Country Without Boundaries \" (1998) presented the art of the 1970s as a response to the political and social problems of Israel during that period. Artistic formalism is perceived not only as a framework for social and political content, but in addition, according to Itamar Levy's formulation, every element in an artistic work is perceived both as a design activity and an ideological concept. Ginton claimed that these political expressions, which increased in intensity after the political and social crisis that followed the Young Kippur War, continued until the 1980s, at which time most artists abandoned these subversive artistic practices and returned to more traditional artistic activity.\n\nOne of the first projects carried out in Israel under the banner of Conceptual Art was implemented by the sculptor Joshua Neustein. In 1970, Neustein was collaborated with Georgette Batlle and Gerard Marx to create \"The Jerusalem River Project\". In this installation, in East Jerusalem in the dry wadi in the Abu Tor neighborhood between the St. Clair Monastery and Nachal Kidron (the Kidron Brook), taped water sounds were projected out of speakers. The imaginary river not only created an artistic environment outside the boundaries of the museum, but also hinted ironically at the concept of messianic redemption that appeared after the Six-Day War in the spirit of the Book of Ezekiel (Chapter 47) and the Book of Zechariah (Chapter 14).\n\nThis work also can be viewed as an indication of the growing number of artists who could be found out in the middle of the Israeli landscape, under the influence of the American trend toward \"Land Art\". Many of these works expressed a dialectical and ambiguous relationship with the Iandscapes of the \"Land of Israel\" and the \"Orient\", which in turn expressed increasing political criticism. In many works that included metaphysical and ritual aspects, the development and influence of Caananite sculpture and the abstraction of the \"New Horizons\" school can be clearly seen.\n\nIn the art of Yitzhak Danziger, whose work had been dealing with local landscapes for years, the conceptual aspect of the Israeli variation of \"Land Art\" was expressed. Danziger felt that there was a need for reconciliation and improvement in the damaged relationship between man and his environment. This belief led him to plan projects which combined the rehabilitation of sites with ecology and culture. The \"repair\" of the landscape as an artistic event was developed by Danziger in his project \"The Rehabilitation of the Nesher Quarry\", on the northern slopes of the Carmel Mountains. This project was created as a collaboration between Danziger, Zeev Naveh the ecologist, and Joseph Morin the soil researcher, which attempted to create, using various technological and ecological means, a new environment among the fragments of stone left in the quarry. \"Nature should not be returned to its natural state\", Danziger contended. \"A system needs to be found to re-use the nature which has been created as material for an entirely new concept\". After the first stage of the project, the attempt at rehabilitation was put on display in 1972 in an exhibit at the Israel Museum.\n\nAnother example of this kind of experiment was created in 1977 at a ceremony in which 350 oak saplings were planted in the Golan Heights to create a space immortalizing the fallen soldiers of the Egoz Combat Unit. Danziger suggested that the emphasis of this monument be placed on the view itself and on the creation of a site that differed from the functional quality of a memorial. This concept was implemented by using the ideas behind Bedouin and Palestinian ritual sites throughout the Land of Israel, sites in which trees are used alongside the graves of revered leaders as a ritual focus and, in Danziger's words, \"bright swatches of cloth in blue and green are hung from the branches […] Driven by a spiritual need, people come to hang these pieces of fabric on the branches and to make a wish\"\n\nIn 1972 a group of young artists who were in touch with Danziger and influenced by his ideas created a group of activities that became known as \"Metzer-Messer\" in the area between Kibbutz Metzer and the Arab village Meiser in the north west section of the Shomron. Micha Ullman, with the help of youth from both the kibbutz and the village, dug a hole in each of the communities and implemented an exchange of symbolic red soil between them. Moshe Gershuni called a meeting of the kibbutz members and handed out the soil of Kibbutz Metzer to them there, and Avital Geva created in the area between the two communities an improvised library of books recycled from Amnir Recycling Industries. Another artist influenced by Danziger's ideas was Igael Tumarkin who, at the end of the 1970s, created a series of works entitled, \"Definitions of Olive Trees and Oaks\", in which he created temporary sculpture around trees. Like Danziger, Tumarkin also related in these works to the life forms of popular culture, particularly in Arab and Bedouin villages, and created from them a sort of artistic-morphological language, using \"impoverished\" bricolage methods. Some of the works related not only to coexistence and peace, but also to the larger Israeli political picture. In works such as \"Earth Crucifixion\" (1981) and \"Bedouin Crucifixion\" (1982), Tumarkin referred to the ejection of Palestinians and Bedouins from their lands, and created \"crucifixion pillars\" for these lands.\n\nAnother group that operated in a similar spirit, while at the same time emphasizing Jewish metaphysics, was the group known as the \"Leviathians\", presided over by Avraham Ofek, Michail Grobman, and Shmuel Ackerman. The group combined conceptual art and \"land art\" with Jewish symbolism. Of the three of them Avraham Ofek had the deepest interest in sculpture and its relationship to religious symbolism and images. In one series of his works Ofek used mirrors to project Hebrew letters, words with religious or cabbalistic significance, and other images onto soil or man-made structures. In his work \"Letters of Light\" (1979), for example, the letters were projected onto people and fabrics and the soil of the Judean Desert. In another work Ofek screened the words \"America\", \"Africa\", and \"Green card\" on the walls of the Tel Hai courtyard during a symposium on sculpture.\n\nThe landscape as a space for performance and expressions of gender, which occupied center stage in American art of this period, never caught on in Israel as it did in the United States. Ilana Tannenbaum claimed that, in contrast to artists worldwide, the works of Israeli artists were restrained in their artistic language and tended to be reductionist with regard to forms. In the works of many Israeli artists, such as Moshe Gershuni, Tamar Getter, and others, the relationship to the body was assimilated into sociopolitical significance. In her work \"Letter to Beuys\" (1974), for example, Getter wrote a fictitious letter to the artist Joseph Beuys. The letter included three different biographies and asked Beuys to make her a coat and shoes.\n\nIn his work \"Via Dolorosa\" (1973), Motti Mizrachi, who walked on crutches, created a series of photographs documenting his walking along the route of the Via Dolorosa on crutches while carrying a large portrait of himself on his back. The works of Gideon Gechtman during this period dealt with the complex relationship between art and the life of the artist, and with the dialectic between artistic representation and real life. In the exhibition \"Exposure\" (1975), Gechtman described the ritual of shaving his body hair in preparation for heart surgery he had undergone, and used photographed documentation like doctors' letters and x-rays which showed the artificial heart valve implanted in his body. In other works, such as \"Brushes\" (1974–1975), he uses hair from his head and the heads of family members and attaches it to different kinds of brushes, which he exhibits in wooden boxes, as a kind of box of ruins (a reliquary). These boxes were created according to strict minimalistic esthetic standards.\n\nAfter the Yom Kippur War there was a palpable intensifying of protest in Israeli art against everything that was perceived as Israeli militarism or its relationship with the Palestinians, the dominant medium for which was the performance.\n\nOne of the leading artists in this protest movement was Pinchas Cohen Gan, who created a number of works of a political nature during these years. In his work \"Touching the Border\" (7 January 1974), four iron missiles, with Israeli demographic information written on them, were sent to Israel's border. The missiles were buried at the spot where the Israelis carrying them were arrested. In \"Performance in a Political Camp in Jericho\", which took place on February 10, 1974 in the northeast section of the city of Jericho near Khirbat al-Mafjar (Hisham's Palace), Cohen created a link between his personal experience as an immigrant and the experience of the Palestinian immigrant, by building a tent and a structure that looked like the sail of a boat, which was also made of fabric. At the same time Cohen Gan set up a conversation about \"Israel 25 Years Hence\", in the year 2000, between two refugees, and accompanied by the declaration, \"A refugee is a person who cannot return to his homeland\".\n\nThe artists Gabi Klasmer and Sharon Keren (\"Gabi and Sharon\") gave a number of performances of a political nature and based on current events in public places in Jerusalem. On April 24, 1973 the two of them drew airplanes, tanks, and soldiers on the streets of Jerusalem, accompanied by the caption, \"Who needs a parade?\" On the same day the two of them showed up at the Medal of Courage and Medal of Valor ceremony at the Jerusalem Theater swathed in bandages and decked out in military medals.\n\nEfrat Natan created a number of performances dealing with the dissolution of the connection between the viewer and the work of art, at the same time criticizing Israeli militarism after the Six-Day War. Among her important works was \"Head Sculpture\", in which Natan consulted a sort of wooden sculpture which she wore as a kind of mask on her head. Natan wore the sculpture the day after the army's annual military parade in 1973, and walked with it to various central places in Tel Aviv. The form of the mask, in the shape of the letter \"T\", bore a resemblance to a cross or an airplane and restricted her field of vision\".\n\nA blend of political and artistic criticism with poetics can be seen in a number of paintings and installations that Moshe Gershuni created in the 1970s. For Gershuni, who began to be famous during these years as a conceptual sculptor, art and the definition of esthetics was perceived as parallel and inseparable from politics in Israel. Thus, in his work \"A Gentle Hand\" (1975–1978), Gershuni juxtaposed a newspaper article describing abuse of a Palestinian with a famous love song by Zalman Shneur (called: \"All Her Heart She Gave Him\" and the first words of which are \"A gentle hand\", sung to an Arab melody from the days of the Second Aliyah (1904–1914). Gershuni sang like a muezzin into a loudspeaker placed on the roof of the Tel Aviv Museum. In another work, \"Who Is a Zionist and Who Is Not?\" (1979) Gershuni wrote these words on the walls of a gallery with pinkish-red pastels. In these works the minimalist and conceptualist ethics served as a tool for criticizing Zionism and Israeli society.\nJoshua Neustein’s Still Life 1983 was a shape of a Phantom Jet made of burning car tires on the Lebanon Border.\n\nMost of the artists who worked in the 1970s as conceptualist artists in a variety of media changed their style in the 1980s and returned for the most part to the medium of painting. This, under the influence of European and American art, was characterized during those years by a mixture of styles all grouped under the accepted esthetic of minimalism, including the American \"Neo-Geo\" style, the \"Pop Art\" style of artists such as Jeff Koons, and the fashionable expressive style, also known as \"Bad Painting\", of artists such as George Baselitz and Julian Schnabel, which defined the post modernist spirit in art around the world.\n\nThese international trends filtered into Israeli art, which reflected the attempt to undercut the values of contemporary Israeli society. In the art of this decade, especially toward its end, a discourse of identities developed, a discourse that was incompatible with the institutional hegemony; narrative painting returned and regained its status among local artists, intentionally combining the post modernist use of \"the high\" and \"the low\" in all aspects of the implementation and themes of works of art.\n\nThe expressive style in painting was adopted in Israel by a great many artists. Michal Na'aman, who created collages and other conceptual art in the 1970s, moved to large scale paintings with psychological and psychoanalytic overtones. Moshe Gershuni moved from conceptual and minimalistic sculpture to painting full of Impasto (thickly laid on paint) in which he combined homoerotic symbolism with images of soldiers with Jewish associations, such as verses from the Bible and from other Judeo-Christian sources. Another prominent aspect of art in those years was the use of references to the Holocaust and to Jewish culture in Europe. Gershuni's painting techniques included applying paint with his hands, without using a brush, transforming the act of painting into a sort of solo performance.\n\nIn parallel to the expressionist approach, other artists worked in a more formalist approach. The painter Diti Almog exhibited large paintings with textile motifs, such as buttons, shirt fabrics, etc. The works are abstract and decorative in style. The gap between the calculated, formalist (formal) approach and the use of everyday themes was a result of the feminist approach that derived from it. In the works of painters such as Isaac Golombek and Nahum Tevet this preoccupation with deconstructing the personal narrative by dealing in a formalistic way with the relationship between form and content, is also very much in evidence.\n\nIf in the 1970s Israeli art is full of social and political messages, art in the 1980s is more concerned with \"protest\". This attribute is especially evident in the second half of the 1980s, under the influence of events such as the 1982 Lebanon War and the outbreak of First Intifada. The painter David Reeb, for example, painted works of a clear political nature, such as \"Green Line With Green Eyes\" (1987), which showed the borders of Israel without the land that was conquered in the Six-Day War, beyond the green line, combined with portraits of Arabs with their face covered and the coastline of the Tel Aviv beach. Another painter, Tsibi Geva, created oriental figures, drawn in an expressive-naïve style, combined with captions like \"Here is Arara\" or \"Umm Al-Fahm\".\n\nLarry Abramson presented a critical view of Israeli Zionism in his series of abstract paintings entitled \"Tsoba\". from which fragments of the Arab village that sat on the site of Kibbutz Tzuba until the War of Independence peek through. This series was created as a counterpoint to the abstract paintings of the same name by Jossef Zaritsky, in which he \"erased\", as it were, all remnants of the Arab village.\n\nArtistic photography gained status during this period, emerging from the place it had occupied for many years as a negligible area of art. A large number of artists returned from studying photography in the United States, among them Avi Ganor, Oded Yedaya, Yigal Shem Tov, Simcha Shirman, Deganit Berest, etc. At the Museum of Art Ein Harod in the mid-1980s, a Biennale of Israeli Photography was held, presenting Israeli photography for the first time in a museum setting on a large scale.\n\nIn the press as well photography sometimes acquired a new aspect, as staged photography, in the works of photographers such as Micha Kirshner. In his portraits, Kirshner used artistic devices such as makeup, lighting, and composition in an attempt to create the desired effect on the way his subjects would be socially perceived. In his portrait of the model Tami Ben-Ami (1982), Kirshner emphasized the artificiality of the public image of the model, and on the gap between this image and the private person.\n\nPerformance art also began to develop. The most important group functioning in this area was named \"Shelter 209\", after the number of the Tel Aviv bomb shelter in which they performed. Members of this group were Danny Zackheim, Tamar Raban, and Anat Shen. Another group, the \"Zik Group\", created images of large-scale cockroaches, which burned up in complex ceremonies that included ritual elements.\n\nThe 1990s brought an openness to contemporary trends in international art. Among the elements responsible for this were the monthly journal 'Studio', edited by Sara Breitberg-Semel, which exposed the Israeli public to contemporary international art; the opening of new galleries that displayed Israeli art of the times; the increase in exhibitions featuring collaboration between Israeli artists and foreign artists; and the strengthening of peripheral museums (such as the Herzliya Museum, which changed its policies during these years). This trend was echoed in the official art establishment with the founding of the \"Art Focus\" project (1994), which aspired to be a biennale of international art, and in other projects during the 2000s (decade).\n\nAs part of the international influence, there was a significant growth in the artistic and commercial importance of various types of media, such as photography, installations, and video performance art. New technologies like online video editing and image file processing in graphic programs, made the use of these media easier for Israeli artists. Another trend of the 1990s was a return to realistic figurative painting, that is, painting created by looking at the object being painted. The painter Israel Hershberg was the leader of this trend and even opened a painting school in order to train young artists in this kind of painting.\n\nIn the works of local sculptors of the 1990s can be seen a tendency towards large and detailed installations. Often they demonstrated a kind of protest against social values by using artistic symbols. Michal Rovner used the medium of video art to create rich and complex textures which were composed of images of people and which produced a primitive-primeval effect. Guy Ben-Ner created videos whose narratives dismantle the institution of family by using comic, ars poetica effects.\n\nIn works such as \"Temple Mount\" (1995) or \"Country\" (2002), Sigalit Landau created environments rich in objects with an expressive appearance that reflected her interest in transitional situations and in social-political criticism. Social criticism can be seen also in the works of Ohad Meromi, who exhibited works that combined \"primitive\" images with modernist values. In his work \"The Clinic\" (1999), Meromi presented traditional local architectures and confronted them with primitive or foreign images. In his work \"The Boy From South Tel Aviv\" (2001), for example, Meromi created a huge statue of a black figure standing in front of what looks like a road block.\n\nEven the older generation of sculptors turned to historical narrative of a more personal nature and to reflection on the nature of art. Philip Rantzer, for example, created sculptures and installations that recreated his childhood experience of being a new immigrant and a stranger in Israel. Penny Yassour created works that invoked the memory of the Holocaust, along with other personal experiences. Nahum Tevet created sculptural constructions that strove to reflect viewer perceptions, memory, the object, and the work of art. Gideon Gechtman emphasized this connection through a variety of means. In his exhibition \"Yotam\" (1999), Gechtman displayed a series of works connected to the death of his son, within a framework of works relating to post modernist means of replication and reproduction.\n\nIn the field of painting as well we see an attempt to criticize society using the language of art. Nurit David and Meira Shemesh, for example, created figurative paintings reflecting the failed attempt at family perfection and artistic perfection. The artist Tal Matzliach created decorative paintings the significance of which was to show the lack of sexual adequacy. Tsibi Geva continued his work from the 1980s with imagery such as \"Keffiyah\" and \"Biladi\", which juxtapose American abstract art with local images.\n\nThe tendency toward the preoccupation with central symbols can be seen primarily among the artists who thought of themselves as representatives of a minority group within Israeli society. The artist Assam Abu Shakra, for example, made use of the symbol the \"Sabra\" which Israelis thought of as a Zionist symbol, as part of a process for establishing an Israeli Arab identity. Another artist, Sharif Waked, created in his series \"Jericho First\" (2002) a metamorphosis of the image of the hunter in the floor mosaic in Khirbat al Mafjar, north of Jericho, as a means of political criticism.\n\nThe photographer Adi Nes used photographs of Israeli soldiers, posed in various existential situations, combining them with images of homoerotic significance and of death. In the untitled photograph (1999) that has come to be known as \"The Last Supper\", soldiers sit around a table in a tableau reminiscent of \"The Last Supper\" of Leonardo da Vinci.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27825757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27825757", "title": "Wrocław Walking Pilgrimage", "text": "Wrocław Walking Pilgrimage\n\nWrocław Walking Pilgrimage – an annual walking pilgrimage from Wrocław to Jasna Góra held in August. It leaves Wrocław on August 2 and after nine days of walking approximately 230 kilometers enters Częstochowa.\n\nWrocław's Archbishop Cardinal Henryk Gulbinowicz decided to create the Wrocław Walking Pilgrimage to Jasna Góra in 1981. Before this occurred, groups of pilgrims from Wrocław had already been walking to Jasna Góra since 1956. Between 1977 and 1980 many inhabitants of Wrocław participated in the Warsaw Pilgrimage to Jasna Góra. The Rev. Stanisław Orzechowski, who was responsible for pastoral ministry to university students of the Wawrzyny community, and the Rev. Andrzej Dziełak, minister of the CODA student ministry group, were formally invited to organize this \"walking retreat\" for the faithful of the Archdiocese of Wrocław. They organized the first \"pilgrimage bureaus\", which gathered people and necessary equipment as well as disseminated relevant information to parishes.\n\nThe first pilgrimages experienced huge difficulties because of a lack of experience as well as new laws and surveillance by the Communist government's intelligence agency, the Służba Bezpieczeństwa.\n\nThe first Wrocław Walking Pilgrimage modeled itself with regards to organizational issues after the Warsaw Walking Pilgrimage. Gradually, however, the Wrocław Walking Pilgrimage worked out its own style and organization, which allowed it greater independence.\n\nEach year, the pilgrimage begins on August 2. However, in 2010 the pilgrimage will begin on August 1 because of the 30th anniversary of the pilgrimage. Pilgrims sleep in tents. Only the sick and elderly are allowed to sleep indoors. \n\nThe pilgrims primarily travel across villages, forests, and rural roads.\nThe pilgrimage covers approximately 230 km. It is divided into nine phases. The 30th anniversary pilgrimage will be one phase longer. Below is a summary of the pilgrimage route:\n\nThe epilogue of the pilgrimage is an annual one-day autumn pilgrimage to Trzebnica to the Sanctuary of St. Hedwig of Andechs, the patron saint of Lower Silesia. The autumn pilgrimage also celebrates the election of John Paul II to the Papacy on October 16, 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "34257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34257", "title": "Yahweh", "text": "Yahweh\n\nYahweh was the national god of the Iron Age kingdoms of Israel (Samaria) and Judah. His exact origins are disputed, although they reach back to the early Iron Age and even the Late Bronze: his name may have begun as an epithet of El, head of the Bronze Age Canaanite pantheon, but the earliest plausible mentions of Yahweh are in Egyptian texts that refer to a similar-sounding place name associated with the Shasu nomads of the southern Transjordan.\n\nIn the oldest biblical literature, Yahweh is a typical ancient Near Eastern \"divine warrior\", who leads the heavenly army against Israel's enemies; he later became the main god of the Kingdom of Israel (Samaria) and of Judah, and over time the royal court and temple promoted Yahweh as the god of the entire cosmos, possessing all the positive qualities previously attributed to the other gods and goddesses. By the end of the Babylonian exile (6th century BCE), the very existence of foreign gods was denied, and Yahweh was proclaimed as the creator of the cosmos and the true god of all the world.\n\nThere is almost no agreement on the origins and meaning of Yahweh's name; it is not attested other than among the Israelites, and seems not to have any reasonable etymology (\"Ehyeh ašer ehyeh\", or \"I Am that I Am\", the explanation presented in Exodus 3:14, appears to be a late theological gloss invented to explain Yahweh's name at a time when the meaning had been lost).\n\nThe Israelites were originally Canaanites, but Yahweh does not appear to have been a Canaanite god. The head of the Canaanite pantheon was El, and one theory holds that the word Yahweh is based on the Hebrew root HYH/HWH, meaning \"cause to exist,\" as a shortened form of the phrase \"ˀel ḏū yahwī ṣabaˀôt\", () \"El who creates the hosts\", meaning the heavenly host accompanying El as he marched beside the earthly armies of Israel. The argument has numerous weaknesses, including, among others, the dissimilar characters of the two gods, and the fact that \"el dū yahwī ṣaba’ôt\" is nowhere attested either inside or outside the Bible.\n\nThe oldest plausible recorded occurrence of Yahweh is as a place-name, \"land of Shasu of yhw\", in an Egyptian inscription from the time of Amenhotep III (1402–1363 BCE), the Shasu being nomads from Midian and Edom in northern Arabia. In this case a plausible etymology for the name could be from the root \"HWY\", which would yield the meaning \"he blows\", appropriate to a weather divinity. There is considerable but not universal support for this view, but it raises the question of how he made his way to the north. The widely accepted Kenite hypothesis holds that traders brought Yahweh to Israel along the caravan routes between Egypt and Canaan. The strength of the Kenite hypothesis is that it ties together various points of data, such as the absence of Yahweh from Canaan, his links with Edom and Midian in the biblical stories, and the Kenite or Midianite ties of Moses. However, while it is entirely plausible that the Kenites and others may have introduced Yahweh to Israel, it is unlikely that they did so outside the borders of Israel or under the aegis of Moses, as the Exodus story has it.\n\nIsrael emerges into the historical record in the last decades of the 13th century BCE, at the very end of the Late Bronze Age when the Canaanite city-state system was ending. The milieu from which Israelite religion emerged was accordingly Canaanite. El, \"the kind, the compassionate,\" \"the creator of creatures,\" was the chief of the Canaanite gods, and he, not Yahweh, was the original \"God of Israel\"—the word \"Israel\" is based on the name El rather than Yahweh. He lived in a tent on a mountain from whose base originated all the fresh waters of the world, with the goddess Asherah as his consort. This pair made up the top tier of the Canaanite pantheon; the second tier was made up of their children, the \"seventy sons of Athirat\" (a variant of the name Asherah). Prominent in this group was Baal, who had his home on Mount Zaphon; over time Baal became the dominant Canaanite deity, so that El became the executive power and Baal the military power in the cosmos. Baal's sphere was the thunderstorm with its life-giving rains, so that he was also a fertility god, although not quite \"the\" fertility god. Below the seventy second-tier gods was a third tier made up of comparatively minor craftsman and trader deities, with a fourth and final tier of divine messengers and the like. El and his sons made up the Assembly of the Gods, each member of which had a human nation under his care, and a textual variant of Deuteronomy 32:8–9 describes El dividing the nations of the world among his sons, with Yahweh receiving Israel:\n\nWhen the Most High (\"’elyôn\") gave to the nations their inheritance,<br> when he separated humanity,<br>he fixed the boundaries of the peoples<br>according to the number of divine beings.<br>For Yahweh's portion is his people,<br>Jacob his allotted heritage.\n\nThe Israelites initially worshipped Yahweh alongside a variety of Canaanite gods and goddesses, including El, Asherah and Baal. In the period of the Judges and the first half of the monarchy, El and Yahweh became conflated in a process of religious syncretism. As a result, \"’el\" () became a generic term meaning \"god\", as opposed to the name of a worshipped deity, and epithets such as El Shaddai came to be applied to Yahweh alone, diminishing the worship of El and strengthening the position of Yahweh. Features of Baal, El and Asherah were absorbed into the Yahweh religion, Asherah possibly becoming embodied in the feminine aspects of the Shekinah or divine presence, and Baal's nature as a storm and weather god becoming assimilated into Yahweh's own identification with the storm. In the next stage the Yahweh religion separated itself from its Canaanite heritage, first by rejecting Baal-worship in the 9th century, then through the 8th to 6th centuries with prophetic condemnation of Baal, the \"asherim\", sun-worship, worship on the \"high places\", practices pertaining to the dead, and other matters.\n\nIn the earliest literature such as the Song of the Sea (Exodus 15:1–18, celebrating Yahweh's victory over Egypt at the exodus), Yahweh is a warrior for his people, a storm-god typical of ancient Near Eastern myths, marching out from a region to the south or south-east of Israel with the heavenly host of stars and planets that make up his army. Israel's battles are Yahweh's battles, Israel's victories are his victories, and while other peoples have other gods, Israel's god is Yahweh, who will procure a fertile resting-place for them:\n\nThere is none like God, O Jeshurun (i.e., Israel)<br>who rides through the heavens to your help ...<br>he subdues the ancient gods, shatters the forces of old ...<br>so Israel lives in safety, untroubled is Jacob's abode ...<br>Your enemies shall come fawning to you,<br>and you shall tread on their backs. (Deuteronomy 33:26–29)\n\nIron Age Yahweh was the national god of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah, and appears to have been worshipped only in these two kingdoms; this was unusual in the Ancient Near East but not unknown—the god Ashur, for example, was worshipped only by the Assyrians.\n\nAfter the 9th century BCE the tribes and chiefdoms of Iron Age I were replaced by ethnic nation states, Israel, Judah, Moab, Ammon and others, each with its national god, and all more or less equal. Thus Chemosh was the god of the Moabites, Milcom the god of the Ammonites, Qaus the god of the Edomites, and Yahweh the \"God of Israel\" (no \"God of Judah\" is mentioned anywhere in the Bible). In each kingdom the king was also the head of the national religion and thus the viceroy on Earth of the national god; in Jerusalem this was reflected each year when the king presided over a ceremony at which Yahweh was enthroned in the Temple.\n\nThe centre of Yahweh's worship lay in three great annual festivals coinciding with major events in rural life: Passover with the birthing of lambs, Shavuot with the cereal harvest, and Sukkot with the fruit harvest. These probably pre-dated the arrival of the Yahweh religion, but they became linked to events in the national mythos of Israel: Passover with the exodus from Egypt, Shavuot with the law-giving at Sinai, and Sukkot with the wilderness wanderings. The festivals thus celebrated Yahweh's salvation of Israel and Israel's status as his holy people, although the earlier agricultural meaning was not entirely lost. His worship presumably involved sacrifice, but many scholars have concluded that the rituals detailed in Leviticus 1–16, with their stress on purity and atonement, were introduced only after the Babylonian exile, and that in reality any head of a family was able to offer sacrifice as occasion demanded. (A number of scholars have also drawn the conclusion that infant sacrifice, whether to the underworld deity Molech or to Yahweh himself, was a part of Israelite/Judahite religion until the reforms of King Josiah in the late 7th century BCE). Sacrifice was presumably complemented by the singing or recital of psalms, but again the details are scant. Prayer played little role in official worship.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible gives the impression that the Jerusalem temple was always meant to be the central or even sole temple of Yahweh, but this was not the case: the earliest known Israelite place of worship is a 12th-century open-air altar in the hills of Samaria featuring a bronze bull reminiscent of Canaanite \"Bull-El\" (El in the form of a bull), and the archaeological remains of further temples have been found at Dan on Israel's northern border and at Arad in the Negev and Beersheba, both in the territory of Judah. Shiloh, Bethel, Gilgal, Mizpah, Ramah and Dan were also major sites for festivals, sacrifices, the making of vows, private rituals, and the adjudication of legal disputes.\n\nYahweh-worship was famously aniconic, meaning that the god was not depicted by a statue or other image. This is not to say that he was not represented in some symbolic form, and early Israelite worship probably focused on standing stones, but according to the Biblical texts the temple in Jerusalem featured Yahweh's throne in the form of two cherubim, their inner wings forming the seat and a box (the Ark of the Covenant) as a footstool, while the throne itself was empty. No satisfactory explanation of Israelite aniconism has been advanced, and a number of recent scholars have argued that Yahweh was in fact represented prior to the reforms of Hezekiah and Josiah late in the monarchic period: to quote one recent study, \"[a]n early aniconism, \"de facto\" or otherwise, is purely a projection of the post-exilic imagination\" (MacDonald, 2007).\n\nPre-exilic Israel, like its neighbours, was polytheistic, and Israelite monotheism was the result of unique historical circumstances. The original god of Israel was El, as the name demonstrates—its probable meaning is \"may El rule\" or some other sentence-form involving the name of El. In the early tribal period, each tribe would have had its own patron god; when kingship emerged, the state promoted Yahweh as the national god of Israel, supreme over the other gods, and gradually Yahweh absorbed all the positive traits of the other gods and goddesses. Yahweh and El merged at religious centres such as Shechem, Shiloh and Jerusalem, with El's name becoming a generic term for \"god\" and Yahweh, the national god, appropriating many of the older supreme god's titles such as El Shaddai (Almighty) and Elyon (Most High).\n\nAsherah, formerly the wife of El, was worshipped as Yahweh's consort or mother; potsherds discovered at Khirbet el-Kôm and Kuntillet Ajrûd make reference to \"Yahweh and his Asherah\", and various biblical passages indicate that her statues were kept in his temples in Jerusalem, Bethel, and Samaria. Yahweh may also have appropriated Anat, the wife of Baal, as his consort, as Anat-Yahu (\"Anat of Yahu,\" i.e., Yahweh) is mentioned in 5th century BCE records from the Jewish colony at Elephantine in Egypt. A goddess called the Queen of Heaven was also worshipped, probably a fusion of Astarte and the Mesopotamian goddess Ishtar, possibly a title of Asherah. Worship of Baal and Yahweh coexisted in the early period of Israel's history, but they were considered irreconcilable after the 9th century BCE, following the efforts of King Ahab and his queen Jezebel to elevate Baal to the status of national god, although the cult of Baal did continue for some time.\nThe worship of Yahweh alone began at the earliest with Elijah in the 9th century BCE, but more likely with the prophet Hosea in the 8th; even then it remained the concern of a small party before gaining ascendancy in the exilic and early post-exilic period. The early supporters of this faction are widely regarded as being monolatrists rather than true monotheists; they did not believe that Yahweh was the only god in existence, but instead believed that he was the only god the people of Israel should worship. Finally, in the national crisis of the exile, the followers of Yahweh went a step further and outright denied that the other deities aside from Yahweh even existed, thus marking the transition from monolatrism to true monotheism.\n\nIn 539 BCE Babylon itself fell to the Persian conqueror Cyrus, and in 538 BCE the exiles were permitted to return to Yehud medinata, as the Persian province of Judah was known. The Temple is commonly said to have been rebuilt in the period 520–515 BCE, but it seems probable that this is an artificial date chosen so that 70 years could be said to have passed between the destruction and the rebuilding, fulfilling a prophecy of Jeremiah.\n\nIn recent decades, it has become increasingly common among scholars to assume that much of the Hebrew bible was assembled, revised and edited in the 5th century BCE to reflect the realities and challenges of the Persian era. The returnees had a particular interest in the history of Israel: the written Torah (the books of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy), for example, may have existed in various forms during the Monarchy (the period of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah), but it was in the Second Temple that it was edited and revised into something like its current form, and the Chronicles, a new history written at this time, reflects the concerns of the Persian Yehud in its almost-exclusive focus on Judah and the Temple.\n\nProphetic works were also of particular interest to the Persian-era authors, with some works being composed at this time (the last ten chapters of Isaiah and the books of Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi and perhaps Joel) and the older prophets edited and reinterpreted. The corpus of Wisdom books saw the composition of Job, parts of Proverbs, and possibly Ecclesiastes, while the book of Psalms was possibly given its modern shape and division into five parts at this time (although the collection continued to be revised and expanded well into Hellenistic and even Roman times).\n\nSecond Temple Judaism was centered not on synagogues, which began to appear only in the 3rd century BCE, and the reading and study of scripture, but on the Temple itself, and on a cycle of continual blood sacrifice (meaning the sacrifice of live animals). Torah, or ritual law, was also important, and the Temple priests were responsible for teaching it, but the concept of scripture developed only slowly. While the written Torah (the Pentateuch) and the Prophets were accepted as authoritative by the 1st century CE, beyond this core the different Jewish groups continued to accept different groups of books as authoritative.\n\nDuring the Second Temple period, speaking the name of Yahweh in public became regarded as taboo. When reading from the scriptures, Jews began to substitute the divine name with the word \"adonai\" (אֲדֹנָי‬), meaning \"Lord\". The High Priest was permitted to speak the name once in the Temple during the Day of Atonement, but at no other time and in no other place. During the Hellenistic period, the scriptures were translated into Greek by the Jews of the Egyptian diaspora. Greek translations of the Hebrew scriptures render both the tetragrammaton and \"adonai\" as \"kyrios\" (κύριος), meaning \"the Lord\". After the Temple was destroyed in 70 CE, the original pronunciation of the tetragrammaton was forgotten.\n\nThe period of Persian rule saw the development of expectation in a future human king who would rule purified Israel as Yahweh's representative at the end of time–that is, a messiah. The first to mention this were Haggai and Zechariah, both prophets of the early Persian period. They saw the messiah in Zerubbabel, a descendant of the House of David who seemed, briefly, to be about to re-establish the ancient royal line, or in Zerubbabel and the first High Priest, Joshua (Zechariah writes of two messiahs, one royal and the other priestly). These early hopes were dashed (Zerubabbel disappeared from the historical record, although the High Priests continued to be descended from Joshua), and thereafter there are merely general references to a Messiah of (meaning descended from) David. From these ideas, Christianity, Rabbinic Judaism, and Islam would later emerge.\n\nYahweh is frequently invoked in Graeco-Roman magical texts dating from the second century BCE to the fifth century CE, most notably in the Greek Magical Papyri, under the names Iao, Adonai, Sabaoth, and Eloai. In these texts, he is often mentioned alongside traditional Graeco-Roman deities and also Egyptian deities. The archangels Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, and Ouriel and Jewish cultural heroes such as Abraham, Jacob, and Moses are also invoked frequently as well. The frequent occurrence of Yahweh's name is probably due to Greek and Roman folk magicians seeking to make their spells more powerful through the invocation of a prestigious foreign deity.\n\nTacitus, John the Lydian, and Cornelius Labeo all identify Yahweh with the Greek god Dionysus. Jews themselves frequently used symbols that were also associated with Dionysus such as kylixes, amphorae, leaves of ivy, and clusters of grapes. In his \"Quaestiones Convivales\", the Greek writer Plutarch of Chaeronea writes that the Jews hail their god with cries of \"Euoi\" and \"Sabi\", phrases associated with the worship of Dionysus. According to Sean M. McDonough, Greek-speakers may have confused Aramaic words such as Sabbath, Alleluia, or even possibly some variant of the name Yahweh itself for more familiar terms associated with Dionysus.\n\n"}
