{"id": "22861703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22861703", "title": "2009 World Series of Poker results", "text": "2009 World Series of Poker results\n\nThe 2009 World Series of Poker was the 40th annual World Series of Poker (WSOP). Held in Las Vegas at the Rio All Suite Hotel and Casino, the 2009 series began on May 27 and featured 57 poker championships in several variants. All events but the $10,000 World Championship No Limit Texas hold 'em Main Event, the most prestigious of the WSOP events, ended by July 15. The final table of the Main Event, known as the November Nine, was suspended until November, to allow for better television coverage. Following the WSOP custom since 1976, each of the event winners received a championship bracelet in addition to that event's prize money, which this year ranged from US$87,778 for the $500 Casino Employees No-Limit Hold'em to US$8,546,435 for the Main Event.\n\nMost of the tournaments played at the WSOP are variants of Texas Hold 'em. Hold 'em is a community card game where each player may use any combination of the five community cards and the player's own two hole cards to make a poker hand, in contrast to poker variants such as stud or draw in which each player holds a separate individual hand. Between 2000 and 2009, hold'em surpassed seven-card stud as the most common game in U.S. casinos. Seven-card stud is a poker variant wherein each player is dealt two hole cards and one face-up to start the hand, followed by three more face-up cards one at a time, and then another hidden card, with betting after each round. Another poker variant played is Omaha, a game in which each player is dealt four hole cards and must use exactly two of them in conjunction with three community cards to make the best possible five-card hand. Other games played at the 2008 tournament included Razz, HORSE, and Deuce-to-Seven.\n\nWithin each of these poker variants a myriad of options exist. For example, depending on the betting structure, a tournament might be described as no limit, limit or pot-limit. Games may also include other variations on the rules governing the execution of the specific game such as shootout, eight or better, or heads up.\n\nThere were 57 events, two more than in 2008. The main event had 6,494 buy-ins, 350 fewer than the previous year. Other changes for 2009 include the elimination of rebuy events and the introduction of triple starting chips.\n\nIn recognition that 2009 was the 40th WSOP, the tournament started with a special $40,000 No-Limit event. As one of the most expensive poker tournaments ever, the event attracted what considered to be one of the toughest poker fields ever assembled. Poker pro, Vitaly Lunkin, won his second bracelet in this event. Lunkin then finished in second place at the $10,000 pot-limit Omaha event and the $50,000 HORSE Championship, finishing the summer with over $2.7 million. David Bach, a player with several final table appearances, won his first bracelet in the $50,000 HORSE Championship. At 18 hours and 44 minutes the final table of the $50K HORSE event was the second longest final table in WSOP history.\n\nJeff Lisandro became the fifth player to ever win three bracelets in the same year, and the first ever to win bracelets in all three stud variants offered at the WSOP (stud high-only, stud high-low, and Razz) in the same year. Poker superstar Barry Greenstein, said that \"A lot of people might have said before this year, we may not ever see another guy win three bracelets because the fields are so big... Lisandro proved them wrong.\" He was the first player to do so since Phil Ivey did it in 2002. By winning two bracelets, Ivey, considered by many to be the best overall poker player in the world, became the youngest player to ever amass seven WSOP bracelets. The milestone means he is tied with Poker Hall of Famer Billy Baxter at sixth place on the most bracelets list.\n\nDue to capacity limitations, the 2009 WSOP turned away over 500 players from the Main Event. Patrik Antonius, T. J. Cloutier, Layne Flack, Ted Forrest, Brandon Adams, Richard Ashby, and Mickey Appleman were among the notable players turned away from the Main Event. 1996 WSOP champion Huck Seed would have been included in that list, if he had not won the National Heads-Up Poker Championship which meant he was guaranteed entry into the 2009 WSOP Main Event.\n\nAnother tournament which met its capacity limits was the \"$1,000 buy-in Stimulus Special.\" This event set a new record for a non-main event tournament with 6,012 participants.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe $7.7 million prize pool was the largest non-main event prize pool in WSOP history.\n\nThe 918 players set a record turnout for an Omaha event at the WSOP.\n\nEvent 5 was originally scheduled to end on June 2, but because of the size of the field the tournament was extended a day.\n\nEvent 4 had the lowest buy-in of all the open events since the 2006 WSOP. Dubbed the \"$1,000 buy-in Stimulus Special,\" it set a new record for a non-main event tournament with 6,012 participants. This number would have been larger, but the tournament was capped at 6,012 players.\n\nLike all the Pot Limit Omaha events, event 52 was a \"Triple Chance\" event. In these events players had access to three equal units of chips. For example, in a $2500 event, players have access to a total of 7500 in chips, but they had to option to start with either 2500, 5000 or all 7500. If they started with 2500, and lost those chips, they could access another 2500 or their remaining 5000. They were not eliminated until they had lost all 7500 of their possible starting chips. Thus the event was not a rebuy event(There were no rebuy events in 2009 WSOP.), but rather one where players could lose all their chips during the first three rounds but not be eliminated until they lost all 7500 chips. If a player started with less than the full 7500, at the end of three rounds any remaining available 2500 units were added to the player's stacks, and anyone losing all their chips after that point would be eliminated.\n\nThe final table of the Main Event is now known as the November Nine as the nine players have to wait until November to determine who the champion is.\n"}
{"id": "10075462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10075462", "title": "Albert Devèze", "text": "Albert Devèze\n\nAlbert Joseph Charles Devèze (; 6 June 1881 – 28 November 1959) was a Belgian liberal politician and minister. Devèze was a doctor in law and a lawyer. He was a liberal municipality Council member in Schaerbeek and in Ixelles and a member of parliament for the district of Brussels (1912–1939 and 1946–1958) and for the district of Verviers (1939–1946). Devèze was President of the Liberal Party in 1927-1932 and was a minister of defense (1920–1923, 1932–1936 and 1949–1950), vice prime-minister (1949–1950), minister of interior (1939–1940) and of economy (1946). In 1930, he became minister of state.\n\n"}
{"id": "35812512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35812512", "title": "Alexander Seton (Governor of Berwick)", "text": "Alexander Seton (Governor of Berwick)\n\nSir Alexander Seton, also known as Alexander de Seton (fl. 1311–c1348) was the Governor (sometimes referred to as the Keeper or the Captain) of Berwick.\n\nAlexander Seton took part in Edward Bruce's 1315 campaign in Ireland. He signed the Declaration of Arbroath of 1320 asserting the independence of Scotland.\n\nIn 1327 he was said to be appointed keeper of Berwick-upon-Tweed. For how long is unclear as on March 21 King Robert applied for a Safe-Conduct for him to go to England for negotiations. In 1331 Sir Robert de Lawedre of The Bass was Keeper of the Scottish Marches and Custodian of the Castle of Berwick-upon-Tweed, receiving a fee attributed to those positions, at Pentecost, of £33.6s.8p. He is also described as Sheriff of Berwick, for which he received a further payment. He was still holding those positions the following year as mentioned by the historian of the town.\n\nIn March 1333 Edward Balliol, son and heir of King John Balliol, and Henry Beaumont, 4th Earl of Buchan, along with their supporters and those of the late John Comyn invaded Scotland with the tacit support of Edward III of England. The army advanced quickly towards Berwick, which was placed under siege.\n\nIn 1333 Alexander Seton was again governor of the town of Berwick, while Patrick de Dunbar, Earl of March was entrusted with the defence of the castle. After a long siege, an agreement to surrender Berwick within a certain time unless it has been relieved was obtained. Alexander's son, Thomas Seton, was given as a hostage.\n\nA small party of Scots led by Sir William Keith managed with some difficulty to make their way across the charred ruins of the old bridge to the northern bank of the Tweed and were able to force their way through to the walled town, which sat below the castle. Guardian of the Realm Archibald Douglas, who had crossed the Border into England in order to draw Edward, viewed this as a technical relief and sent messages to Edward calling on him to depart.\n\nKing Edward III of England viewed it differently, and as the town had not surrendered by the agreed date, saw this as a breach of the agreement and hanged Thomas Seton within sight of the besieged and his parents. Another treaty was agreed to so as to protect the other hostages. Berwick was eventually surrendered after the defeat of the Scots at the Battle of Halidon Hill on 19 July 1333. In this month, in a double tragedy, Seton's son William drowned in an attack upon the English fleet at Berwick, again in sight of his father.\n\nAlexander was present in Edward Balliol's parliament on 10 February 1334 and witnessed the (temporary) cession of Berwick to the English. He had a Safe-conduct to go to England, 15 October 1337, and in August 1340 he was one of the hostages for John, Earl of Moray.\n\nHe entered the Order of Knights of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem, after 1341 and was styled Master of Torphichen in 1345 after being appointed to the charge of the Order of Knights of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem House of Torphichen by the Hélion de Villeneuve, Grand Master at Rhodes. Alexander obtained an temporary dispensation granted on 6 February 1346-47 by Pope Clement VI, permitting Alexander to choose a confessor. As a Knight of the Order he was granted safe-conduct dated 12 August 1348 to enable him to visit King David II of Scotland, who was imprisoned within the Tower of London. Alexander seems to have died shortly afterwards.\n\nHe married Christian, daughter of Francis le Cheyne of Straloch; they had issue:\n"}
{"id": "27504055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27504055", "title": "Angie Sanclemente Valencia", "text": "Angie Sanclemente Valencia\n\nAngie Sanselmente Valencia also known as Angie Sanclemente Valencia (born 25 May 1979) is a former Colombian beauty queen and lingerie model believed to be the ringleader of one of the world's largest drug syndicates.\n\nValencia is originally from Colombia. where she won the Reinado Nacional del Café, a national qualifying competition for the prestigious Reinado Internacional del Café (International Queen of Coffee) beauty pageant, in 2000 but was dethroned two days later when it was found she was married. The title was awarded to Ximena Andrea García Buitrago.\n\nValencia's operation is believed to be a \"rival empire\" to that of her former boyfriend, a Mexican drug baron known as \"The Monster\". She formed her own cartel after splitting with him. She is alleged to have recruited other models, whom she is quoted referring to as her \"unsuspicious, beautiful angels\" as drug traffickers, paying them up to around $5,000 (£3,200) per trip to transport cocaine from Argentina to England by way of Cancún.\n\nValencia's alleged syndicate was believed to have been exposed on 13 December 2009, when a 21-year-old woman, \"Ariel L\", was arrested with a suitcase containing 55 kg (121 pounds) of cocaine at Ezeiza International Airport, Buenos Aires, Argentina. \"L\" made no attempt to hide the drugs inside her bags, leading authorities to suspect the ring had help from employees. She is reported to have been told that no one at the airport would try to stop her, and an investigation was launched to find employees of the airport with possible links to the syndicate. After questioning \"L\", three additional arrests were made and a warrant was issued for Valencia's arrest. Authorities believed she was still in Argentina after she fled a hotel where she had been staying with her pomeranian. Investigators attempted to trace her location through the address under which the animal was registered, but it only led them to an abandoned warehouse. In March 2010 Interpol issued an international warrant for her arrest.\n\nValencia was finally arrested in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on May 26, 2010, while staying in a local hostel. Police reported that she had registered under a false name and had tried to alter her appearance by dyeing her hair blonde.\n\nShe was initially jailed on 27 May 2010 in the \"Centro Federal de Detención de Mujeres Unidad número 31\" in the city of Ezeiza, Province of Buenos Aires, Argentina. In October of the same year she was moved to the \"Instituto Correccional de Mujeres Unidad número 3\" also in Ezeiza after she suffered some violent attacks.\n\nShe was released from prison and deported back to Colombia on 27 September 2013 after serving only half of her original 6 year and 8-month prison sentence. She is banned from returning to Argentina.\n"}
{"id": "51730078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51730078", "title": "Anselme Selosse", "text": "Anselme Selosse\n\nAnselme Selosse is a Champagne producer and grower based in the Avize region of Champagne, France. He is the son of Jacques Selosse and is part of the fourth generation of his family to grow wine.\n\nAnselme produces Jacques Selosse champagne, named after his father. He took over the family vineyard in 1980 after attending enology school in Burgundy and working alongside the legendary vignerons at Domaine Coche-Dury, Domaine Leflaive, and Domaine des Comtes Lafon. As of 2006, the Selosse fields numbered 37 acres, in 42 different parcels, almost all chardonnay with some pinot noir.\n\nHis particular type of wine is known as Grower Champagne, where grapes used to produce the wines are grown in vineyards owned by the Selosse family, rather than being purchased from other growers. He was one of the first winemakers to show that small producers can make their own wine. Anselme is considered a pioneer of biodynamics in Champagne and grows his grapes in an organic way. Selosse wines are fermented in oak barrels, in contrast to the majority of Champagne producers who often use stainless steel tanks. Consequently, the wines are often described as artisnal.\n\nIn 1994, the Gault-Millau guide named him France’s best winemaker in every category.\n\nAnselme and his wife Corinne, own and operate Hôtel Les Avisés, a 10-room inn adjacent to the family winery. While his champagne house does not take many tasting appointments, staying at the hotel is one of the ways to meet this winemaker.\n"}
{"id": "30786643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30786643", "title": "Antonio Galloni", "text": "Antonio Galloni\n\nAntonio Galloni is an American wine critic and founder and CEO of Vinous, one of the world's most influential wine publications, for which he is also the lead critic covering the wines of Bordeaux, California, Italy, and Champagne. From 2006 to 2013 Galloni was a tasting staff member of Robert Parker's publication \"The Wine Advocate\". In May 2013, Galloni founded Vinous (http://vinousmedia.com).\n\nGalloni was born in Caracas, Venezuela to an Italian father and American mother. When he was 11 the family moved to Sarasota, Florida where his parents retailed Italian wines. This early exposure to wine began a lifelong fascination with wine. Galloni’s maternal grandmother introduced him to the wines of Burgundy, while his father instilled in him that “there are two great wines in the world: Barolo and Champage”.\n\nGalloni received a degree from Boston’s Berklee College of Music in jazz composition and guitar. After a stint as a musician and waiter, which led him to get to know many of the new California wineries of the time, he took a job with Putnam Investments and was soon after sent to Putnam’s Milan office. This opportunity was a total immersion in Italian wine and culture. Galloni returned to the U.S. to acquire a formal business education.\n\nIn 2004, while studying for an MBA at MIT's Sloan School of Management, Galloni began publication of the \"Piedmont Report\" newsletter profiling the wine of Piedmont. At the time the only critic who had been writing about the wines of Italy in English was James Suckling. Within weeks \"Piedmont Report\" had subscribers in more than 25 countries and quickly established itself as the premier guide in the world for Piedmont wines. Galloni turned down an offer to write for Robert Parker’s \"The Wine Advocate\" to work for a brief stint at Deutsche Bank in New York City. In 2006, he accepted Parker’s offer to join \"The Wine Advocate\" as a reviewer of Italian wine, and became a contributor to Parker's \"Wine Buyer’s Guide\". In January 2011, as Parker restructured the coverage of his staff of reviewers and announced he would no longer review California wine, Galloni's area of coverage was expanded to include California, Champagne, Chablis and the Côte d'Or.\n\nGalloni has stated in \"The Wine Advocate\" issue 186 that he will only review Champagne that provides a disgorgement date so he may accurately rate a Champagne by its release.\n\nIn 2013 Antonio left the \"TWA \"to start \"Vinous\". At the time of his departure, Galloni was the lead critic at \"The Wine Advocate\", and had authored 1/3rd of the reviews published by \"TWA\" in 2012. Galloni also ran the world’s most followed bulletin board on Italian wines and spearheaded \"TWA\"’s production of video content. He developed tailored public events & seminars such as the highly anticipated “La Festa del Barolo,” vertical tastings focused on the benchmark wines of Italy, and numerous charity dinners.\n\nIn February 2013, following the announcement by Parker that he was stepping down as editor-in-chief of \"The Wine Advocate\" and had sold a controlling stake to a Singapore investor, Galloni announced himself that he would leave the publication and establish his own internet publication, launched under the brand Vinous (http://vinousmedia.com). Aimed towards a broader demographic of wine consumers, Galloni has stated he would continue to report on the wines of Italy, Champagne, California and Burgundy and will cover wines from Bordeaux from the 2013 vintage, as well as craft spirits.\n\nVinous has since acquired Stephen Tanzer’s \"International Wine Cellar\" and the apps Delectable and Banquet.\n\nIn March 2013, it was reported that \"The Wine Advocate\" had filed a federal lawsuit against Galloni five weeks after his departure for breach of contract, fraud and defamation. \nThe lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Maryland, advancing the complaint, was never served.\nAll the articles cited in the case have subsequently appeared on Galloni's Vinous Media website.\n\nAccording to Robert Parker, \"The Wine Advocate’s\" efforts were “simply a matter of retrieving a service we paid for,” rather than “an attempt to stop Antonio from moving on; we continue to wish him our very best.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1774823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1774823", "title": "Arthur J. Finkelstein", "text": "Arthur J. Finkelstein\n\nArthur Jay Finkelstein (May 18, 1945 – August 18, 2017) was a New York State-based Republican Party (GOP) consultant who had worked for conservative and right-wing candidates in the United States, Canada, Israel, Central and Eastern Europe over the past four decades.\n\nWith his brother, Ronald, he ran a political consulting and survey-research firm based in Irvington, New York. Finkelstein's specialties were polling, strategy, message, media, ad placement, and advising on general campaign management. In 2013, he was honored by the American Association of Political Consultants, and named to its Hall of Fame, \"the highest honor that the working members of the profession can bestow upon a colleague.\"\n\nFinkelstein grew up in a lower-middle-class Jewish family, living in Brooklyn's East New York section until age 11, then in Levittown, New York, and later Queens. He and his two brothers attended local public schools; Finkelstein graduated from Forest Hills High School. Their parents were immigrants from Eastern Europe, and the father worked as a cabdriver and did various jobs in the garment trade. While a student at Columbia University, Finkelstein interviewed and helped produce radio programs for author/philosopher Ayn Rand, and was a volunteer at the New York headquarters of the Draft Goldwater Committee in 1963–64 (the famous \"Suite 3505\"). He eventually earned a bachelor's degree from Queens College in 1967 in economics and political science.\n\nIn 1968, Finkelstein did behind-the-scenes election analysis for NBC News, part of the network's team working under former Census director Richard M. Scammon and exit-polling pioneer Irwin A. \"Bud\" Lewis.\n\nIn 1969–70, he worked as a computer programmer in the Data Processing department of the New York Stock Exchange at its offices on 11 Wall Street in lower Manhattan. He was a familiar face in Greenwich Village, where he often argued politics from a street-corner soapbox. In his spare time, he aided State Senator John Marchi in his unsuccessful Republican-Conservative campaign for Mayor of New York City in 1969.\n\nF. Clifton White, mastermind of the Draft Goldwater Committee, was Finkelstein's political patron and consulting partner in the early 1970s in the firm, DirAction Services. The young pollster's first electoral success came at age 25 in 1970, with the independent Conservative campaign of James L. Buckley for senator from New York. This was one of several New York statewide contests where he was able to maneuver his clients to victory in three-way scenarios. Buckley won a plurality upset victory over GOP incumbent Charles Goodell and favored Democrat Richard Ottinger. Of that election night, Buckley later wrote, \"By 10 pm, ... Finkelstein (my volunteer analyst who called the final results within one-tenth of one percent based on a Sunday-night telephone survey) assured me that I had won.\" Finkelstein encapsulated Buckley's message in the catchphrase, \"Isn't it about time we had a Senator?\"\n\nFinkelstein's work in New York led to his serving in 1971-72 as one of several pollsters for President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign developing sophisticated demographic analysis.\n\nThe 1972 election also saw the first of his three victorious campaigns to elect Jesse Helms as U.S. senator from North Carolina. After the election, Finkelstein worked with Helms political aides Tom Ellis and Carter Wrenn to establish a permanent conservative organization, the National Congressional Club, which lasted until 1995.\n\nFinkelstein and White went their separate ways in the mid-1970s, and he founded his own firm, Arthur J. Finkelstein & Associates (often later shortened to AJF & Associates). In the 1976 presidential primaries, White supported Gerald Ford, while Finkelstein worked for Ronald Reagan's insurgent campaign.\n\nHe helped Helms's Congressional Club turn around the faltering Reagan effort with a victory in the April North Carolina primary. His work continued in the subsequent Texas primary. \"Finkelstein had been a key figure in 1976, when he helped orchestrate Reagan's campaign-saving comeback in North Carolina\" which was crucial in Reagan's further political advancement.\n\nAt Finkelstein's urging, Reagan made a major issue of the impending Panama Canal Treaties, which Gerald Ford was negotiating and which infuriated conservative voters. (This proved to be Reagan's signature issue throughout the late 1970s.) As Jules Witcover later reported, \"Tens of thousands of Wallace voters were gradually cut adrift during his slide [in the primaries] ... and Reagan media man Arthur Finkelstein recruited a Wallaceite from Fort Worth to radio and television spots for Reagan ... It was dynamite.\" The Associated Press's Mike Robinson wrote Finkelstein was \"viewed by many as instrumental in Gov. Reagan's 1976 primary successes in North Carolina and Texas.\"\n\nPassage of the post-Watergate Federal Election Campaign Act (FECA) amendments, and the subsequent 1976 Supreme Court decision in Buckley v. Valeo, drastically altered the rules by which Presidential and Congressional contests were waged. Finkelstein was among the first to sense an opportunity, and pioneered the concept and execution of independent expenditure campaigns, which would operate as a third force in an election beyond the control of candidate or party officials.\n\nBeginning in 1975, Finkelstein was the chief strategist behind the most successful IE operation of this period, the National Conservative Political Action Committee (NCPAC). Its Executive Director was Finkelstein protégé Terry Dolan. In 1981 New Right activist Richard Viguerie wrote, \"NCPAC relies heavily on research and polling, a reflection of one of its founders, conservative pollster Arthur Finkelstein.\"\n\nIn 1978, NCPAC was instrumental in the defeat of Democrats Dick Clark in Iowa and Thomas J. McIntyre in New Hampshire. Both liberal senators were replaced by committed conservatives. NCPAC ran hard-hitting ads for television, radio and newspapers, crafted by Finkelstein. A central idea behind the strategy was to expose the liberal words and actions in Washington of elected officials, usually senators, whose moderate or conservative public image at home was at odds with their actual voting record.\n\nNCPAC hit its peak in 1980, operating IEs in six states, its ads and organizing efforts helping to topple liberal Democrats in Iowa (John Culver), Indiana (Birch Bayh), Idaho (Frank Church) and South Dakota (George McGovern). Less well-known were NCPAC's TV ads in the presidential contest, both negative (one featuring Jimmy Carter in a 1976 debate, another with Edward Kennedy shouting \"And no more Jimmy Carter!\") and positive (footage of Ronald Reagan speaking on values); Finkelstein concentrated these ad buys in closely contested Southern states (e.g., Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama), all of which switched from Carter to Reagan in 1980.\n\nFinkelstein believed in the usefulness of third forces to help conservatives win elections, but not a conservative third party (a much-discussed option in the mid-1970s). At a February 1977 conference, he told activists, \"The development of a third party may very well hurt conservative options in the future by diluting them,\" warning that traditional and emotional ties to party labels would keep many conservatives in their present parties. He said the Watergate scandal had cost the GOP the one clear advantage it had over the Democrats - the perception by voters that it was the more honest of the two parties. Nevertheless, he counseled against third-party option, saying this would succeed only in drawing conservatives out of both parties, creating a weak satellite party and leaving the major parties more liberal.\n\nBesides NCPAC, Finkelstein found particular success during this period in guiding individual Senate and House campaigns. Reagan backer and political unknown Orrin Hatch won a resounding 56% victory in Utah in 1976 against a three-term Democratic incumbent. In 1978, he was consultant to the successful re-election campaigns of Jesse Helms in North Carolina and Strom Thurmond in South Carolina — the latter being Thurmond's last seriously contested race (he served until 2002, age 100). That same year, Finkelstein shepherded Carroll Campbell to his first win in South Carolina's Greenville-area 4th Congressional District.\n\nAfter a brief interlude early in 1979 as adviser to conservative Congressman Phil Crane, Finkelstein returned as one of the pollsters advising Ronald Reagan's primary campaign. His services were also reportedly sought by the George H.W. Bush campaign.\n\nIn 1980, he engineered the improbable Senate victory of Long Island supervisor Alfonse D'Amato over incumbent Jacob Javits, another three-way contest where the Democrat (Congresswoman Liz Holtzman) was favored. He advised the successful campaign of 31-year-old State Senator Don Nickles for U.S. Senate from Oklahoma. Most unlikely was the victory (aided by National Congressional Club allies) of John East in the North Carolina Senate contest; East was a little-known professor who used a wheelchair, recruited for the race by Jesse Helms and elected through the efforts of Ellis, Wrenn, Finkelstein and the Helms organization.\n\nBesides Campbell, House winners included Duncan Hunter in California and Denny Smith in Oregon (both 1980), the latter toppling House Ways and Means Committee chair Al Ullman. Finkelstein also had his share of Senate losses, including two by previous client James Buckley (1976, New York, and 1980, Connecticut), and with Avi Nelson (1978, Massachusetts). Finkelstein was also pollster-strategist for Maryland Congressman Robert Bauman, who narrowly lost his seat after he was charged in DC with homosexual solicitation, one month before the November election.\n\nDuring the 1980 campaign Finkelstein was a Reagan pollster and had been \"aboard the Reagan campaign\" since mid-1979. from the early primary days all the way through November. Having ridden (and driven) the Republican wave of 1977–80, he found the 1980s a period of consolidation, helping clients grow their base and win re-election.\n\nIn 1981, Finkelstein was one of four pollsters designated to do work on behalf of the Reagan White House, paid by the Republican National Committee. (The others were Richard Wirthlin, Robert Teeter and Tully Plesser). Newsweek reported in 1982 that \"each of the President's top three advisers has his own numbers man: \"Wirthlin became Edwin Meese's pollster, Teeter became James Baker's and now Finkelstein has become Michael Deaver's.\"\n\nThroughout Reagan's first term and into the 1984 re-election campaign, Finkelstein advised Deaver, conducting polls and planning events and visuals (e.g. Reagan's trip to France for the 40th anniversary of D-Day). As \"The Washington Post\" reported: \"For the White House, Finkelstein is more of an idea man than a pollster, specializing in media events such as the president's \"spontaneous\" drop-ins on disadvantaged individuals and institutions.\"\n\nHe also began dabbling in gubernatorial contests—in New Jersey (1981), for Jim Wallwork (defeated by Tom Kean in the GOP primary); and in New York (1982), for Paul Curran (defeated by Lewis Lehrman for the nomination).\n\nIn 1982, Finkelstein client Orrin Hatch sailed to re-election in Utah, while in Florida, banker Connie Mack III won his first campaign for the House. But his efforts on behalf of Democrat-turned-Republican Congressman Eugene Atkinson of Pennsylvania ended in defeat, as did the Congressional campaign in Westchester County of John Fossel, chairman of Oppenheimer Funds.\n\nThat year, NCPAC (with Finkelstein as pollster-strategist) was successful in only one targeted race (helping to oust Democrat Howard Cannon in Nevada), failed in several others (e.g. Maryland), and thereafter declined in influence. The pitfalls of running IEs and campaigns at the same time were illustrated when NCPAC was sued for running ads in early 1982 against New York Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan—around the same time as Finkelstein was working for GOP Senate candidate Bruce Caputo.\n\nIn 1986, a federal court ruled against NCPAC, and \"The Washington Post\" editorialized, \"Both NCPAC and the Caputo campaign used the same pollster, Arthur Finkelstein. They could hardly be said to be independent unless the Caputo side of Mr. Finkelstein's brain refrained from communicating with the NCPAC side.\" (Finkelstein himself was not sued or charged; ironically, Caputo's campaign had imploded after revelations he'd lied about serving in the military, and Moynihan was never seriously challenged.) As late as 1987, Finkelstein was doing surveys for NCPAC (e.g. in New Mexico).\n\nDuring the early 1980s, Finkelstein became involved in international polling, for groups such as Canada's National Citizens Coalition and (in 1986) the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario after losing their majority in the Ontario Legislature following the 1985 elections.\n\nThe 1984 election cycle saw him involved in three pitched battles for the Senate, the most heralded being the challenge of Democratic Governor Jim Hunt to Helms in North Carolina. The Ellis-Wrenn-Finkelstein team used the permanent assets of the National Congressional Club to wage a three-year campaign to undermine Hunt, including a groundbreaking opposition-research and advertising effort that redefined the popular governor as a tax-raising national Democrat. Helms won with 52%, in what was then the most expensive Senate race in history. However, this was the last Helms campaign on which Finkelstein would serve as pollster. Before Helms' 1990 re-election campaign, Finkelstein told the North Carolina team he couldn't work for the Senator any more. According to Carter Wrenn the New Yorker was polite about it, didn't offer a reason and recommended one of his proteges, John McLaughlin, handle the survey and strategy work. At the time, Helms was becoming one of the leading critics of the gay rights movement. \"I took it that Arthur wasn't comfortable with Jesse's stand on the social issues,\" Wrenn said, and chalked it up to Finkelstein's libertarian views.\n\nin November 1984, Finkelstein also found success in New Hampshire, as he aided freshman conservative Sen. Gordon Humphrey in overcoming a tough challenge from long-time Democratic Congressman Norman D'Amours. But in Massachusetts, after winning a contested primary against Elliot Richardson, businessman Ray Shamie lost a close uphill battle to Lt. Gov. John Kerry for the Senate seat vacated by Paul Tsongas. Another client, Congressman Tom Corcoran, failed to dislodge incumbent Charles Percy from the Senate nomination in Illinois, despite tough ads (attributed to Finkelstein) suggesting Percy was personally close to PLO leader Yasser Arafat.\n\nHis Congressional clients in 1984 included three New Yorkers -- Joseph DioGuardi (who won election in Westchester County), Robert Quinn (who lost in Nassau County) and Serphin Maltese (who lost a close race for Geraldine Ferraro's seat in Queens). He helped guide Bill Cobey to an upset victory for Congress in North Carolina against incumbent Ike Andrews.\n\nIn 1985, Finkelstein polled for the gubernatorial campaign of Virginia Attorney General Marshall Coleman, losing the nomination to Wyatt Durrette (who was then defeated by Democrat Gerald Baliles).\n\nRepublicans lost their Senate majority in the November 1986 midterm elections. Nevertheless, Finkelstein's leading clients won re-election — Alfonse D'Amato in New York, and Don Nickles in Oklahoma. However, his candidate to succeed John East in North Carolina, David Funderburk, lost his primary, and he fared no better in Ohio, where Congressman Tom Kindness made little headway against incumbent Sen. John Glenn as well as in Illinois, where state legislator Judy Koehler failed to dislodge Senator Alan Dixon. Finkelstein also steered Californian Elton Gallegly to his initial victory for Congress, but failed to push State Sen. Ed Davis to victory in the California U.S. Senate primary.\n\nIn 1985–87, Finkelstein was part of the team advising former U.N. Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick for a possible campaign for the Presidency. Kirkpatrick ultimately declined to run.\n\nThe Florida Senate contest of 1988 — closest in the country that year — was among Finkelstein's signature efforts. Congressman Connie Mack III won a tougher-than-expected primary, but his campaign did not wait for the results of the early-October Democratic runoff. Finkelstein determined (correctly) that Congressman Buddy MacKay would emerge from the bitter face-off, and began running TV and radio ads re-defining MacKay through his liberal voting record, with the tagline, \"Hey Buddy, You're a Liberal.\" MacKay's primary and runoff campaign had focused on ethics — appropriate for defeating Democrat Bill Gunter, but useless against Mack — and he failed to blunt the ideological attack. Still, the \"Hey Buddy\" ads were unpopular with the press, and 22 of 23 Florida daily newspapers endorsed MacKay.\n\nMack continued to press the liberal vs. conservative contrast in debates and ads, closing with endorsements by the highly popular Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, plus footage of MacKay endorsing various tax increases. A slight majority of voters casting ballots on Election Day backed MacKay, but an aggressive GOP absentee-voter program had already banked a margin of tens of thousands of votes, and Mack was elected senator by a total of 34,512 votes out of 4 million cast.\n\nFinkelstein also advised Joe Malone in his campaign against Massachusetts Sen. Edward Kennedy; Malone lost with 34%, but gained enough positive recognition that, in 1990, he was elected Treasurer in the overwhelmingly Democratic state. Another client, Joseph DioGuardi, lost his congressional re-election contest in New York, 47.5% to 50.3%, to Nita Lowey. But, in another tight contest decided by absentee voters, Denny Smith won re-election to Congress in Oregon.\n\nBrooklyn native Finkelstein had long advised local and state party organizations in New York (e.g., the powerful GOP committees of Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk Counties, then dominant in all three suburban areas).\n\nIn 1989, he dove into the contentious world of New York City politics. Rudolph Giuliani's initial candidacy for Mayor was met with a primary challenge by cosmetics billionaire Ronald Lauder, backed by Sen. D'Amato and guided by Finkelstein. The Giuliani-D'Amato feud had begun in 1988 over the selection of Rudy's successor as U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York; it colored Republican politics in the Empire State for the next several years. In this first skirmish, Lauder's millions of dollars' worth of hard-hitting advertising failed to prevent Giuliani's winning the GOP nomination. (Giuliani later blamed Lauder's primary ads for his narrow loss to David Dinkins that November.)\n\nA year later, in the disastrous 1990 gubernatorial election, GOP nominee Pierre Rinfret nearly finished in third place (behind Conservative Party of New York State upstart Herbert London). D'Amato, and by extension Finkelstein, assumed dominance over the moribund state party apparatus. Long-time Rensselaer County activist William Powers, a staunch D'Amato ally, was named chairman, and began the rebuilding process. (D'Amato allies had started their own state PAC in 1989, the Committee for New York, in order to aid Republicans independent of the decaying party team.)\n\nAt this time, the Reaganite Finkelstein was not a fan of the current Administration of George H.W. Bush. In a rare public appearance in February 1991, after the GOP's poor national showing in the November 1990 elections, he reminded a conservative audience that Reagan prospered through unabashed ideological appeals that drew crossover votes from sympathetic Democrats. But Bush and other GOP candidates \"kicked that away\" in 1990 by raising taxes, sidestepping abortion and other social issues, and soft-pedaling their anti-communism while rooting for Mikhail Gorbachev to succeed. \"We are going to have to go back to the things that got us here,\" Finkelstein said.\n\nMeanwhile, D'Amato faced mounting ethical problems, and these occupied much of Finkelstein's time in 1990 and 1991. Though the New York senator was ultimately cleared by the Senate Ethics Committee in 1991, he was the subject of ceaseless negative news stories and editorials.\n\nWhen CBS's \"60 Minutes\" ran a highly damaging story on D'Amato, Finkelstein produced a response program that refuted many of its charges and misstatements. All the while, D'Amato's aggressive casework program and advocacy for New York interests was emphasized in paid and earned media. Nevertheless, going into his 1992 re-election campaign, D'Amato was shown in surveys to be a near-certain loser to most prospective challengers. The indictment of his brother, Armand D'Amato, on two dozen counts of mail fraud in March 1992 darkened the clouds further.\n\nWhen the Democrats nominated Attorney General Robert Abrams in September, Finkelstein's polls showed D'Amato down 25 points, just seven weeks before the election. With the huge lead enjoyed by Democratic presidential nominee Bill Clinton in New York, the Bush-Quayle ticket was a positive drag on D'Amato. As with the Mack-MacKay race in 1988, Finkelstein moved to define Abrams by his liberal positions on issues. Support for a single-payer national health scheme was translated into \"a 6% tax on every job in America\"—a contention never challenged. His backing for other tax increases was documented and publicized in TV and radio ads, with the tagline, \"Bob Abrams: Hopelessly liberal\".\n\nThe D'Amato campaign was no less bold on the ethics issue, repeating pay-for-play charges made by ex-Rep. Geraldine Ferraro during the Democratic primary, with ads featuring excerpts from the Abrams-Ferraro debate. When news stories late in the campaign revealed the nominee's disallowed business-tax deductions, Finkelstein's closing ad ran: \"Bob Abrams never met a tax he didn't like ... except his own.\" On Election Day 1992, as Bill Clinton was winning New York State by 16 points, D'Amato won re-election by 1.2 points, a margin of 80,794 votes — with a wave of Clinton-D'Amato split-ticket voting in Brooklyn, Queens and Buffalo the deciding factor.\n\nFinkelstein had several other results that day. In North Carolina, he helped the Ellis-Wrenn-Congressional Club team guide businessman and former Democrat Lauch Faircloth to victory over incumbent Sen. Terry Sanford. Don Nickles easily won a third term as senator from Oklahoma. But in Illinois, the candidacy of Rich Williamson failed to defeat Democrat Carol Moseley Braun to replace Sen. Alan Dixon.\n\nD'Amato's comeback win had demonstrated the Republicans' window of opportunity in New York City's outer boroughs, among working-class Catholics and (especially) Jewish voters angered by Democratic leaders' handling of the Crown Heights violence and subsequent incidents.\n\nThe senator's ticket-splitting performance had the effect of shielding downticket candidates from the Bush debacle, and Republicans actually made Congressional gains in strong D'Amato areas — e.g., working-class Buffalo (Jack Quinn), and suburban Long Island (Rick Lazio) — while holding the majority in the powerful State Senate, which strengthened the hand of D'Amato, Finkelstein and Powers going into 1993 and 1994.\n\nGiuliani's second Mayoral campaign in 1993 benefited from the resurgent New York GOP. He had made a point of endorsing the Senator for re-election, and D'Amato and Finkelstein did not again back a primary challenger. This time, Giuliani ran a more effective race, riding to victory on a wave of discontent with incumbent David Dinkins, with even stronger turnout among ethnic Catholics and Jewish voters than in 1989, and in the same areas where D'Amato had done well a year earlier.\n\nIn New York City in November 1993, Finkelstein and Ronald Lauder also guided to victory a measure limiting the terms of elected city officials. \"The New York Times\" called this vote \"a terrific defeat for the city's mostly Democratic political establishment, which had fought in court throughout the summer to kill the referendum, only to have the state's highest court order it on the ballot just two weeks [before the election].\"\n\nFinkelstein had specialized in federal elections to this point, and it was uncertain how he would adapt to the localized issues and personal style of a gubernatorial contest. Reluctantly at first, and only after considering several alternative candidates, he and D'Amato settled on supporting little-known State Senator George Pataki of Peekskill for Governor in 1994. They guided him through the State Convention in May, and to a smashing 3-to-1 primary victory in September over Nelson Rockefeller's longtime political wheelhorse Richard Rosenbaum.\n\nThe main challenge was defining the race against Cuomo. Finkelstein's first ad radiated disappointment and sowed seeds of disbelief: \"Desperate candidates do desperate things ... Mario Cuomo could have been senator or President ...\" Subsequent spots, often as brief as 10 seconds, highlighted Cuomo-era failures (e.g. snarled traffic and record-high utility rates in Long Island), and especially the litany of tax increases over his 12 years. The persistent tagline: \"Mario Cuomo: Too liberal for too long.\"\n\nPataki introduced himself in ads first as a gentle reformer, then angry in responding to Cuomo attacks, and finally enthusiastic (in excerpts from rally speeches at campaign's close). Cuomo defended his record and played up D'Amato's sponsorship of Pataki's campaign (to the tune of Paul Simon's \"You Can Call Me Al\"), but had trouble overcoming the anti-incumbent tide. Pataki had a slight lead in public surveys when, on October 24, Giuliani endorsed Cuomo, with attacks on his fellow Republican quickly becoming a staple on evening news programs. Poll numbers fluctuated wildly, with Finkelstein's own tracking survey showing a Cuomo lead ballooning to 13 points within days. It required a swift response. He elected to attack Giuliani's endorsement as a corrupt deal with Cuomo, the ad using headlines citing suspiciously timed New York State grants to the City to suggest the Governor had used taxpayer money to buy the Mayor's backing. Pataki relentlessly pushed this argument in public appearances.\n\nThe pendulum swung back, with negative reaction to Giuliani especially strong Upstate and in the Metro North and Long Island suburbs. (GOP protestors even chased the Mayor's plane on an airport tarmac during a statewide flyaround for Cuomo.) Pataki closed the sale with an energetic tour of the state, appearing alone on a WCBS-TV Election Eve program when Cuomo refused a one-on-one debate. The final result: Pataki defeated Cuomo by 4 points. In an historic Republican landslide year, Mario Cuomo was the most prominent Democrat to fall. As Todd Purdum of \"The New York Times\" wrote that November, \"For good or ill, Mr. Pataki's campaign [wa]s almost entirely a creation of Mr. Finkelstein.\"\n\nDelaware provided another win for Finkelstein in November 1994, as longtime Senator Bill Roth coasted to victory for his fifth term, 56% to 44%.\n\nFollowing Election Day 1994, D'Amato and Finkelstein were handed new challenges and opportunities, as the 14-year incumbent was named by his Senate peers as chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee (NRSC), one of the four permanent GOP campaign operations in Washington. They had a tough act to follow — Phil Gramm of Texas had just piloted Republicans to a 7-seat gain and recaptured control of the Senate. For Finkelstein, it was his first bow as an inside player on a Washington campaign committee, his dealings previously being as representative of an individual candidate. Now he and D'Amato were responsible for helping to direct Senate campaigns in 33 states simultaneously.\n\nOne of their first moves was to break the cycle of hiring parochial-minded Senate aides to manage the sprawling committee; their choice for Executive Director was John Heubusch (later a top executive with Gateway Computers and head of the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation). Other key hires were Jo Anne B. Barnhart as Political Director, and Gordon Hensley as Communications Director. (Barnhart was a long-time aide and campaigner for Sen. William Roth, and later served as Commissioner of the Social Security Administration.) All three were singled out by \"Roll Call\" newspaper in 1996 as among national \"Politics' Fabulous Fifty.\"\n\nThe NRSC faced several challenges beyond their control, many emanating from the two dominant Republicans of 1995–96, House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole. The Oklahoma City bombing had given President Bill Clinton an opportunity to marginalize his opponents, and slowed the momentum of the reform-minded Republican Congress.\n\nBy late 1995, unrelenting Democratic/press attacks, and his own missteps, had turned Gingrich into a pariah through much of the country (2-to-1 unfav-fav ratio in surveys); meanwhile, Dole was running for President, and allowing ambition to overshadow his Senate work. In mid-1996, Dole resigned from the Senate to campaign full-time, but by then he was behind Clinton to stay, and eventually polled less than 41% nationwide.\n\nD'Amato remained personally devoted to Dole, but Finkelstein and the NRSC team urged Republican Senate candidates to cut loose from unpopular national leaders and carve their own individual profiles on issues. D'Amato remained a champion fundraiser and the committee found new legal ways to deliver assistance to Senate campaigns and local parties. The NRSC paid particular attention to blunting the wave of millionaire political unknowns (e.g., Tom Bruggere in Oregon, Elliott Close in South Carolina) recruited that year by the Democrats. It shored up many endangered incumbents, including Bob Smith (New Hampshire), John Warner (Virginia), 75-year-old Jesse Helms (North Carolina) and 94-year-old Strom Thurmond (South Carolina).\n\nOn Election Night, as Clinton defeated Dole by nearly 9 points and Gingrich's House Republicans lost a net 8 seats, Senate Republicans won open seats in Alabama, Arkansas and Nebraska, while losing South Dakota. In a poor GOP year, the D'Amato-Finkelstein NRSC had gained a net 2 seats (and narrowly missed another gain in the Max Cleland - Guy Millner race in Georgia).\n\nFinkelstein was not a consultant to the Dole Presidential campaign, despite his closeness to several of its top staffers. But, in the election's waning days, \"Time\" magazine reporter Erik Pooley detected the New Yorker's influence on strategy, writing: \n\nFor Arthur Finkelstein, this week might have been a vindication: Bob Dole finally started labeling Bill Clinton a \"spend-and-tax liberal,\" using a crude but often effective strategy known as \"Finkel-think\" by some Dole advisers, because the secretive Republican strategist has been deploying it on behalf of his clients for 20 years ... These days, Finkelstein is exercising a kind of remote control. The Senator's latest brain trust is dominated by \"Arthur's Boys\" ... And Dole is rushing around the country chanting the Finkelstein mantra. \"Liberal! Liberal! Liberal!\" he cried in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nHis own statewide clients in 1996 showed a mixed record, with Senator Larry Pressler (South Dakota) and ex-Senator Rudy Boschwitz (Minnesota) both losing, albeit in close races. Bob Smith survived with a 49% plurality win. New Jersey Congressman Dick Zimmer was defeated in his Senate bid against Robert Torricelli.\"\"\n\nEarlier in 1996, he also helped Benjamin Netanyahu oust Shimon Peres as Prime Minister of Israel in a close upset. According to \"The Jerusalem Post\", \"Finkelstein was largely responsible for the strategy that brought Netanyahu victory in the 1996 general elections.\"\n\nAccording to the \"Times of Israel\", \"Finkelstein was behind the \"Peres will divide Jerusalem\" slogan that helped Netanyahu overcome Shimon Peres who had been forecast to sweep to power in the wake of the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin the previous November. That election was credited with changing the tone of Israeli campaigns, bringing more American-style, aggressive and negative campaigning to Israel.\" But his expertise helped in subtler ways as well; biographer Neill Lochery wrote in 2016 that Finkelstein was behind such ideas as dyeing Netanyahu's salt-and-pepper hair gray to give him a more statesmanlike appearance.\n\nJeff Barak of the \"Jerusalem Post\", a harsh critic of Finkelstein and Netanyahu, called the strategist \"the brains behind Netanyahu's first election victory in 1996. Netanyahu's campaign back then, from which he has never wavered, was that you're either for him or an enemy of the people. His campaign slogan at the time, 'Netanyahu is good for the Jews,' encapsulated this. By implication, if you're not for Netanyahu then you're not good for the Jews, and therefore an enemy. And if Netanyahu is good for the Jews, then this also not-so-subtly hints that Netanyahu's bad for the Arabs, regardless of the fact that they are supposedly citizens of equal standing who comprise around 20% of the country's population.\"\n\nBut Finkelstein's greatest personal challenge that year came with the August issue of \"Boston magazine\", which revealed his private life as a homosexual; the ostensible excuse for the outing was that several Finkelstein clients had voted against gay-rights measures in Congress, and his work to elect them was therefore inconsistent and/or hypocritical. In September, D'Amato said, \"I don't think a person's sexual orientation, his private life — a person's private life should be brought up and I think the question is offensive, it's wrong. He's a wonderful, decent person and whatever his sexual orientation is, that's his business.\"\n\nFinkelstein's next two years anchored him again in New York, for the simultaneous re-election campaigns of Senator D'Amato and Governor Pataki in 1998. The contests were as different as the candidates themselves, with the calm, earnest Pataki winning high approval ratings and discouraging stronger Democrats from challenging him. New Yorkers' approval of Republican executives was signaled with the landslide re-election of Giuliani as Mayor in November 1997.\n\nFinkelstein crafted a highly positive campaign for Pataki, focusing on fulfillment of promises from 1994 (e.g., tax cuts) and policy innovations (the STAR tax program for seniors) Raising $21 million, Pataki defeated New York City Council President Peter Vallone by 21 percentage points, polling 54.3%, the largest share by a Republican for Governor since Nelson Rockefeller in 1958.\n\nD'Amato was another matter; since his narrow victory in 1992, his profile had grown more partisan Republican in this still-heavily Democratic state. Summoning First Lady Hillary Clinton to testify before his Senate committee in 1995, and aggressive campaigning for Dole in 1996, damaged D'Amato in a state where Bill Clinton crushed the Kansan by nearly 2-to-1 (59.5% to 30.6%), doubling his 1992 margin over Bush.\n\nD'Amato's decision to divorce his wife after a long separation and announce his engagement to a young socialite did not help his favorable ratings, while others recalled his mock-Japanese impression of O.J. Simpson case Judge Lance Ito in 1995 (for which he was forced to apologize on the Senate floor).\n\nD'Amato raised a record $26 million for the 1998 campaign, and Finkelstein went to work early shoring up his client's \"Senator Pothole\" image of close attention to local needs and the problems of individual New Yorkers (as he had done successfully in 1992). State polls showed a swing back to such issues as health care and social concerns, which needed to be addressed. The tagline of these ads: \"Al D'Amato Cares, Al D'Amato Makes a Difference, Al D'Amato Gets Things Done.\"\n\nThe Democratic primary was ultimately between Queens politician Geraldine Ferraro and U.S. Representative Charles Schumer of Brooklyn. Finkelstein prepared for both eventualities. When Schumer won by a surprisingly large margin, he immediately began ads that raised questions about the candidate's work ethic. (As Congressman, Schumer had missed an inordinate number of committee meetings.) The unexpected line of attack stymied the Democrat in late September and early October, and despite his weaknesses D'Amato gamely held onto a lead.\n\nAll this collapsed in late October, after a remarkable show of hubris and bad judgment at a closed-door meeting with Jewish supporters in Brooklyn. First, D'Amato did a waddling impression of then-obese Democratic U.S. Rep. Jerrold Nadler. Later in the meeting, he referred to Schumer as a \"putzhead\" (a mangling of the Yiddish vulgarism \"putz\"). He later denied using this characterization, during questions from reporters (but was swiftly contradicted by his own supporters, present at the meeting, including Ed Koch). Film of the denial was turned into a Schumer TV ad within days.\n\nFinkelstein's tracking survey the night of D'Amato's \"putzhead\" comment showed the senator leading Schumer by 10 points with two weeks to go. But the meltdown was quick and decisive, especially among Jewish voters, with Schumer's ads relentlessly driving the message of D'Amato's dishonesty and dislikeability. The Democrat's closing tagline was itself a homage to Finkelstein: \"D'Amato: Too many lies for too long.\" Schumer won, 54.6% to 44.1%—a 20-point turnaround.\n\nIn other races that year, Sen. Lauch Faircloth—who had earlier replaced Finkelstein for his 1998 reelection campaign in North Carolina — brought him back into the fold in the closing weeks of the race. (Faircloth ultimately lost a close contest to Democrat John Edwards.)\n\nIn the 2000s, Finkelstein spent more time working overseas than in previous decades, with clients in Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Kosovo, Ukraine and Azerbijan (the last, in coordination with George Birnbaum.) He continued to consult in Israeli elections, working again for Benjamin Netanyahu in 1999, Ariel Sharon (whom he helped become Prime Minister in 2001), and finally Avigdor Lieberman and his Yisrael Beytenu party.\n\nHaving twice steered Connie Mack III to Senate victories in 1988 and 1994, Finkelstein was in demand for the 2000 Florida contest upon Mack's retirement. His candidate was 10-term Congressman Bill McCollum, and he helped clear the Republican field early in anticipation of a tough general election against Insurance Commissioner Bill Nelson. It was a nail-biter with many echoes of the 1988 Senate campaign, but with a different outcome. As enthusiasm among Republican voters faltered in the final days (after revelations of George W. Bush's 1976 DUI conviction), GOP coattails and McCollum's slim lead disappeared, and Nelson was elected, 51% to 46%.\n\nMcCollum ran for the other Florida Senate seat on Democrat Bob Graham's retirement in 2004, but succumbed to eventual Senator Mel Martinez after low fundraising allowed the challenger to overcome his early lead. But McCollum was more successful in 2006, when he was the consensus GOP choice for Attorney General, and defeated Democrat Skip Campbell, 52.7% to 47.3%, polling well in a poor year for Republicans.\n\nIn 2009 and 2010, Finkelstein helmed McCollum's campaign for Florida Governor, where he was the favorite of the state's GOP Establishment. These plans were upended by the surprise candidacy of wealthy businessman Rick Scott, whose bottomless spending that year ($75 million from his personal coffers) led to a furious contest for the nomination. McCollum fought gamely, but lost the bid to Scott, 43.5% to 46.3%, who went on to win election to the Statehouse that November against Democrat Alex Sink.\n\nA 2004 open seat in Florida's 14th Congressional District allowed Finkelstein to help create a political dynasty, as he steered State Rep. Connie Mack IV to a narrow victory in a four-way primary, then general-election wins in 2004, 2006, 2008 and 2010.\n\nFinkelstein served as strategist for Mack's Senate campaign in 2012; a late entrant in the primary, the Congressman won the GOP nomination with 58%, but was defeated by incumbent Bill Nelson by a million votes in the Obama re-election year. (Mack IV later became a lobbyist, whose clients included the government of Hungary, whose leader Viktor Orbán was a leading Finkelstein client in the 2010s.)\n\nPataki's third gubernatorial campaign, in 2002, provided some fresh challenges to Finkelstein, including a contest for the Conservative Party of New York State nomination, a still-shrinking Republican base, and a strong third-party challenge from millionaire B. Thomas Golisano, running again on the Independence Party line. Finkelstein positioned Pataki as an economic conservative but far more moderate on social and spending issues than in previous campaigns. This shift won the endorsement of influential union leaders such as Dennis Rivera and Randi Weingarten. Pataki enjoyed a 15-point victory, polling 48.3% to 32.7% for state Comptroller H. Carl McCall, and 14% for Golisano.\n\nFinkelstein tried to make use of Pataki's likely coattails by helming the campaign of David Cornstein for the state Comptroller slot being vacated by McCall. Cornstein, a successful businessman and Giuliani's appointed chief of Off-Track Betting, brought personal resources and a strong finance team to the table. He was a longtime ally of both the Mayor and Governor, with a City/Long Island base and unusual appeal as a Jewish Republican running as a moderate-conservative. But party regulars instead fell in decisively behind former Upstate Assemblyman John Faso, a onetime legislative leader for the GOP minority, and Cornstein abandoned his run in 2001. (Faso further failed to expand his appeal beyond the limited Republican base, losing with 46.5% in November 2002; in his subsequent 2006 bid for Governor of New York, Eliot Spitzer crushed him, Faso polling just 29.2%.)\n\nBack in New York, Finkelstein in April 2005, Finkelstein announced the organization of Stop Her Now, a 527 committee dedicated to defeating then-Senator Hillary Clinton in the 2006 New York U.S. Senate race. Clinton sailed to an easy re-election, and the PAC was not a factor in the contest.\n\nIn the titanic struggle over new stadium construction on Manhattan's West Side, Finkelstein was hired to defeat the proposal by Cablevision, MSG and its allies; they ultimately prevailed, and the new Yankee Stadium was instead built in the Bronx, next to the old ballfield site, opening in 2009. It was the only time that the Finkelstein firm filed disclosure forms as a lobbyist (the filer was Ronald Finkelstein, not Arthur).\n\nFinkelstein advised former Congressman Rick Lazio during his campaign for the 2010 Republican nomination for New York Governor.: Lazio lost the GOP nomination contest to businessman Carl Paladino.\n\nFinkelstein continued to partner with Carter Wrenn on Tar Heel State races after the demise of the National Congressional Club. In 2000, former Charlotte mayor (and UNC basketball star) Richard Vinroot sought the Governorship, to succeed the term-limited Democrat Jim Hunt. Vinroot won a contested fight for the GOP nomination, but the drop in Republican-voter enthusiasm in the closing days (noted above in Florida) hurt here as well, and Vinroot was defeated by Mike Easley, 44.2% to 52.4%.\n\nIn one of Finkelstein's last major races before his death, he worked with Wrenn in 2016 to win a spirited primary fight between two sitting Congressmen -- George Holding and Renee Ellmers. Wrenn had helped Ellmers pull one of the shocking House upsets of the 2010 election, but she abandoned the veteran consultant after her swearing-in and allied herself closely with House GOP leaders. In this primary, Wrenn backed Holding (a former US Attorney he'd guided to victory in 2012 and 2014), after a court-ordered redistricting combined the constituencies of the two suburban-Raleigh members. Aided by Wrenn's management and Finkelstein's polling and advice, Holding crushed Ellmers, 53.4% to 23.6%, and went on to a 56% re-election in November against Democrat John P. McNeil.\n\nIn Delaware, Finkelstein continued as pollster in 2000 to Senator Bill Roth, but the 30-year lawmaker fell to a 56%-44% defeat that November to Thomas Carper.\n\nTexas businessman David Dewhurst first approached Finkelstein in 1993 about running for Governor; he advised Dewhurst against challenging George W. Bush, who stormed to victory a year later. In 1998, he shepherded the millionaire to victory for the post of state Land Commissioner, then to two successive wins in 2002 and 2006 for the job of Lieutenant Governor. In 2012, Finkelstein worked against Dewhurst in the U.S. Senate primary, polling for the campaign of former ESPN broadcaster Craig James.\n\nFinkelstein also served as pollster for the 2004 primary challenge by conservative Pennsylvania Congressman Pat Toomey against moderate incumbent Sen. Arlen Specter, pairing with strategist Jon Lerner. Specter averted defeat narrowly only after massive assistance from the NRSC and Bush White House (and then switched parties after the 2008 election); Toomey was elected to Specter's seat in 2010 and 2016.\n\nIn 2005, Finkelstein polled for the gubernatorial campaign of Doug Forrester in New Jersey; he was defeated by Jon Corzine.\n\nConnie Mack IV's 2007 marriage to Congresswoman Mary Bono led to Finkelstein's aiding her sharply contested (but successful) California campaign in November 2008, defeating Democrat Julie Bornstein in Obama's triumphant year. Bono finally lost in 2012, after her Riverside County seat was redistricted, falling to Raul Ruiz.\n\nFinkelstein returned to New Hampshire in 2009-10, taking on the insurgent campaign of Bill Binnie for the GOP Senate nomination. Binnie was defeated by former Attorney General Kelly Ayotte, who went on to election that November.\n\nIn May 2011, Finkelstein told an audience in Prague that three presidential candidates had asked him to serve as pollster on their campaign for the 2012 Republican nomination, and he had turned all three down. (He further noted that Ron Paul was not one of those three.)\n\nFinkelstein was known for his hard-edged political campaigns, which often focused on a single message with great repetition. He is credited with helping to make \"liberal\" a dirty word in the United States during the late 1980s and 1990s through the use of commercial messages such as this, intended to damage the image of Jack Reed:\n\nWhile often successful (as with NCPAC's attacks on seemingly moderate Democrats, or the D'Amato and Pataki campaigns in New York), Finkelstein's tactics sometimes backfired – in 1996, his repeated attacks against Minnesota U.S. Senator Paul Wellstone (calling him \"Embarrassingly liberal. Decades out of touch.\") may have helped galvanize Wellstone's liberal grass-roots base. Republican Sen. Rod Grams eventually condemned Finkelstein's negative ads against Wellstone as excessive; however, his client (former Sen. Rudy Boschwitz) came closer that year than any GOP challenger to defeating a Democratic incumbent.\n\nFinkelstein refused the notion he engaged in negative campaigning, a phrase he said connotes false accusations: \"It just means that you speak about the failings of your opponent as opposed to the virtues of your candidate\"—a strategy he called \"rejectionist voting\"—a formula based on slogans that disparaged adversaries.\n\nTime magazine in October 1996 reported the Liberal-branding strategy was dubbed \"Finkel-think\" by leading Bob Dole advisers, and the presidential nominee was (belatedly) employing it against President Bill Clinton.\n\nPolitical scientist Darrell M. West, in 1996 said \". . .He uses a sledgehammer in every race ... I've detected five phrases he uses — ultraliberal, superliberal, embarrassingly liberal, foolishly liberal and unbelievably liberal.\"\n\nPhilip Friedman, a Manhattan consultant who got his start working for Finkelstein's frequent Democratic rival David Garth, described the pollster as \"the ultimate sort of Dr. Strangelove, who believes you can largely disregard what the politicians are going to say and do, what the newspapers are going to do, and create a simple and clear and often negative message, which, repeated often enough, can bring you to victory\".\n\nRepublican strategist Roger Ailes, who worked with Finkelstein on numerous races in the 1980s, described \"Art\" as \"a polling guy with creative talents\",\n\nJohn Fossel, chairman of Oppenheimer Funds, characterized him as \"basically sort of a mad scientist\". Finkelstein polled in Fossel's unsuccessful Republican Congressional campaign in Westchester County in 1982. \"We had a knock-down, drag-out over whether busing was an issue in Westchester. His polls told him it was. I said, 'I don't think it is, but if it is, it isn't to me,' and we didn't use it.\"\n\nCarter Wrenn, who worked on Republican campaigns for 44 years with Finkelstein in North Carolina, called him \"one of the most creative people I have ever worked with ... He is brilliant in terms of analyzing polls and numbers. He has a unique combination of an analytical and creative mind ... This guy's a workaholic. He must work 18 hours a day ... If you need him, he comes.\"\n\nTom Ellis, cofounder of the National Congressional Club said \"Just knock on his head, and he'll give you an idea.\"\n\nIn 1990, Randall Rothenberg of \"The New York Times\" documented the rise of political and other ads intended to create controversy (in and of themselves), as well as to persuade. While Roger Ailes was credited by some as pioneering the tactic, \"other Washington political hands give credit to Finkelstein, another Republican consultant, who deployed numerous news-generating commercials in his 1982 work for the National Conservative Political Action Committee.\"\n\nFinkelstein's early style is described in an scholarly account of a Congressional primary race in Arizona, published in 1979 in the \"Quarterly Journal of Speech\".\n\nFinkelstein gave advice to political candidates or elected officials to perform the \"dance of the honest man\", a metaphor for responding to \"questions about transparency, honesty, or integrity\" by imagining oneself as a typical, honest voter.\n\nBritain's \"Daily Telegraph\" credited Finkelstein with using polling data to pinpoint the division of Jerusalem as an issue over which Israelis would reject a deal with the Palestinians, during the 1996 election in Israel. The newspaper attributed Benjamin Netanyahu's victory in part to Finkelstein's \"scare-mongering\".\n\nFinkelstein's office shared a small building with Diversified Research, a separate but related firm that executes telephone surveys and packages their results for political and business consultants (including some media pollsters). The firm, long based in Irvington, New York, had formerly been located in nearby Mount Kisco.\n\nFinkelstein also had interests in Murphy-Powers Media Inc. (whimsically named for two young campaign-manager proteges), and Multi-Media Services (a media-buying firm helmed for years by Tony Fabrizio).\n\nOver four decades, Finkelstein was responsible for the early hiring and training of many successful Republican consultants, operatives and managers—collectively called \"Arthur's Kids\" or \"Arthur's Boys\"—including Tony Fabrizio, Alex Castellanos, Craig Shirley, George Birnbaum, Beth Myers, Mitch Bainwol, Ari Fleischer, Carter Wrenn, Kieran Mahoney, Zenia Mucha, Jon Lerner, Rick Reed, Jim Murphy, the pollster brothers John and Jim McLaughlin, Rob Cole, and Adam Stoll. Others who worked with Finkelstein and have gone on to have successful independent careers include Frank Luntz, Larry Weitzner, Charles R. Black, Jr., Roger Stone, Chris Mottola,John Heubusch, Barney Keller, Gordon Hensley, and Gary Maloney.\n\nFinkelstein is also reportedly the author of the words inscribed on the cornerstone of One World Trade Center (otherwise called the Freedom Tower), completed in 2014. At the 2004 dedication, Gov. Pataki read aloud the inscription: \"To honor and remember those who lost their lives on September 11th, 2001 and as a tribute to the enduring spirit of freedom—July Fourth, 2004.\"\n\n\nFinkelstein's firm did non-political work for a number of organizations:\n\nIn 1988, Finkelstein was hired by the \"New York Post\" to do polling in the hotly contested Democratic presidential primary, and in the surprisingly close presidential race in the state that fall.\n\nIn 1996, \"Boston Magazine\" outed Finkelstein as a homosexual in a feature story. In April 2005, Finkelstein acknowledged that in December 2004, he had married his partner of forty years in a civil ceremony at his home in Massachusetts.\n\nFinkelstein was a self-identified libertarian conservative. (He once did polling work for the Free Libertarian Party.) In his final years he increasingly distanced himself personally from social conservative elements within the Republican Party (while nevertheless still working for many conservative candidates). In a 1979 interview, he denied he was \"a hard-core right-winger,\" but noted there was hardly \"a serious conservative over the last 10 years [i.e. 1969-79] whom I haven't been involved with.\"\n\nFinkelstein died of lung cancer on August 18, 2017, aged 72, in Ipswich, Massachusetts. Survivors included his husband, Donald Curiale, of Ipswich and Fort Lauderdale; two daughters, Jennifer Delgado of Danvers, Mass., Molly Finkelstein of Alpharetta, Ga.; two brothers; and a granddaughter Maryn BairdKelly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "198379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198379", "title": "Barbara Ehrenreich", "text": "Barbara Ehrenreich\n\nBarbara Ehrenreich (; born August 26, 1941) is an American author and political activist who describes herself as \"a myth buster by trade\" and has been called \"a veteran muckraker\" by \"The New Yorker\". During the 1980s and early 1990s she was a prominent figure in the Democratic Socialists of America. She is a widely read and award-winning columnist and essayist, and author of 21 books. Ehrenreich is perhaps best known for her 2001 book \"Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America\". A memoir of Ehrenreich's three-month experiment surviving on minimum wage as a waitress, hotel maid, house cleaner, nursing-home aide, and Wal-Mart clerk, it was described by \"Newsweek\" magazine as \"jarring\" and \"full of riveting grit,\" and by \"The New Yorker\" as an \"exposé\" putting \"human flesh on the bones of such abstractions as 'living wage' and 'affordable housing'.\"\n\nEhrenreich was born Barbara Alexander to Isabelle Oxley and Ben Howes Alexander in Butte, Montana, which she describes as then being \"a bustling, brawling, blue collar mining town.\" In an interview on C-SPAN, she characterized her parents as \"strong union people\" with two family rules: \"never cross a picket line and never vote Republican.\" In a talk she gave in 1999, Ehrenreich called herself a \"fourth-generation atheist.\"\n\n\"As a little girl,\" she told \"The New York Times\" in 1993, \"I would go to school and have to decide if my parents were the evil people they were talking about, part of the Red Menace we read about in the Weekly Reader, just because my mother was a liberal Democrat who would always talk about racial injustice.\" Her father was a copper miner who went to the Montana School of Mines (now Montana Tech), and then to Carnegie Mellon University. He eventually became a senior executive at the Gillette Corporation. Her parents later divorced.\n\nEhrenreich studied chemistry at Reed College, graduating in 1963. Her senior thesis was entitled \"Electrochemical oscillations of the silicon anode\". In 1968, she received a Ph.D in cellular immunology from Rockefeller University.\n\nIn 1970, Ehrenreich gave birth to her daughter Rosa Brooks in a public clinic in New York. \"I was the only white patient at the clinic,\" she told \"The Globe and Mail\" newspaper in 1987. \"They induced my labor because it was late in the evening and the doctor wanted to go home. I was enraged. The experience made me a feminist.\"\n\nAfter completing her doctorate, Ehrenreich did not pursue a career in science. Instead, she worked first as an analyst with the Bureau of the Budget in New York City and with the Health Policy Advisory Center, and later as an assistant professor at the State University of New York at Old Westbury. In 1972, Ehrenreich began co-teaching a course on women and health with feminist journalist and academic Deirdre English. Through the rest of the seventies, Ehrenreich worked mostly in health-related research, advocacy and activism, including co-writing, with English, several feminist books and pamphlets on the history and politics of women's health. During this period she began speaking frequently at conferences staged by women's health centers and women's groups, by universities, and by the United States government. She also spoke regularly about socialist feminism and about feminism in general.\n\nThroughout her career, Ehrenreich has worked as a freelance writer, and she is arguably best known for her non-fiction reportage, book reviews and social commentary. Her reviews have appeared in \"The New York Times Book Review\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Atlantic Monthly\", \"Mother Jones\", \"The Nation\", \"The New Republic\", the \"Los Angeles Times\" Book Review supplement, \"Vogue\", Salon.com, \"TV Guide\", \"Mirabella\" and \"American Film\". Her essays, op-eds and feature articles have appeared in \"Harper's Magazine\", \"The New York Times\", \"The New York Times Magazine\", \"Time\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Life\", \"Mother Jones\", \"Ms.\", \"The Nation\", \"The New Republic\", the \"New Statesman\", \"In These Times\", \"The Progressive\", \"Working Woman\", and \"Z magazine\".\n\nEhrenreich has served as founder, advisor or board member to a number of organizations including the U.S. National Women's Health Network, the National Abortion Rights Action League, the National Mental Health Consumers' Self-Help Clearinghouse, the Nationwide Women's Program of the American Friends Service Committee, the Brooklyn-based Association for Union Democracy, political activist Robert Boehm's Boehm Foundation, the anti-poverty group Women's Committee of 100, the National Writers Union, \"The Progressive\" magazine's Progressive Media Project, the Fairness and Accuracy In Reporting (FAIR) advisory committee on women in the media, the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, the Center for Popular Economics, and the Campaign for America's Future.\n\nBetween 1979 and 1981, she served as an adjunct associate professor at New York University and as a visiting professor at the University of Missouri at Columbia and at Sangamon State University. She lectured at the University of California, Santa Barbara, was a writer-in-residence at the Ohio State University, Wayne Morse chair at the University of Oregon, and a teaching fellow at the graduate school of journalism at the University of California, Berkeley. She has been a fellow at the New York Institute for the Humanities, the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, the Institute for Policy Studies, and the New York-based Society of American Historians.\n\nIn 2006, Ehrenreich founded United Professionals, an organization described as \"a nonprofit, non-partisan membership organization for white-collar workers, regardless of profession or employment status. We reach out to all unemployed, underemployed, and anxiously employed workers—people who bought the American dream that education and credentials could lead to a secure middle class life, but now find their lives disrupted by forces beyond their control.\"\n\nIn 1980, Ehrenreich shared the National Magazine Award for excellence in reporting with colleagues at Mother Jones magazine for the cover story \"The Corporate Crime of the Century\", about \"what happens after the U.S. government forces a dangerous drug, pesticide or other product off the domestic market, then the manufacturer sells that same product, frequently with the direct support of the State Department, throughout the rest of the world.\"\n\nIn 1998 the American Humanist Association named her \"Humanist of the Year.\"\n\nIn 2000, she received the Sidney Hillman Award for journalism for the Harper's article \"Nickel and Dimed,\" which was later published as a chapter in her book of the same title.\n\nIn 2002, she won a National Magazine Award for her essay \"Welcome to Cancerland: A mammogram leads to a cult of pink kitsch,\" which describes Ehrenreich's own experience of being diagnosed with breast cancer, and describes what she calls the \"breast cancer cult,\" which \"serves as an accomplice in global poisoning -- normalizing cancer, prettying it up, even presenting it, perversely, as a positive and enviable experience.\"\n\nIn 2004, she received the Puffin/Nation Prize for Creative Citizenship, awarded jointly by the Puffin Foundation of New Jersey and The Nation Institute to an American who challenges the status quo \"through distinctive, courageous, imaginative, socially responsible work of significance.\"\n\nIn 2007, she received the \"Freedom from Want\" Medal, awarded by the Roosevelt Institute in celebration of \"those whose life's work embodies FDR's Four Freedoms.\"\n\nEhrenreich has received a Ford Foundation award for humanistic perspectives on contemporary society (1982), a Guggenheim Fellowship (1987–88) and a grant for research and writing from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation (1995). She has received honorary degrees from Reed College, the State University of New York at Old Westbury, the College of Wooster in Ohio, John Jay College, UMass Lowell and La Trobe University in Melbourne, Australia.\n\nIn November 2018, Ehrenreich received the prestigious Erasmus Prize by King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands for her work in investigative journalism.\n\nEhrenreich has one brother, Ben Alexander Jr., and one sister, Diane Alexander.\n\nWhen Ehrenreich was 35, according to the book \"Always Too Soon: Voices of Support for Those Who Have Lost Both Parents\", her mother died \"from a likely suicide.\" Her father died years later from Alzheimer's disease.\n\nShe has been married and divorced twice. She met her first husband, John Ehrenreich, during an anti-war activism campaign in New York City, and they married in 1966. He is a clinical psychologist, and they co-wrote several books about health policy and labor issues before divorcing in 1977. In 1983, she married Gary Stevenson, a union organizer for the Teamsters. She divorced Stevenson in 1993.\n\nEhrenreich has two children. Born in 1970, her daughter Rosa was named after Rosa Parks, Rosa Luxemburg, and a great-grandmother. She is a Virginia-based law professor, national security and foreign policy expert and writer. Born in 1972, her son Ben is a journalist and novelist in Los Angeles.\n\nFilling in for a vacationing Thomas Friedman as a columnist with \"The New York Times\" in 2004, Ehrenreich wrote about how, in the fight for women's reproductive rights, \"it's the women who shrink from acknowledging their own abortions who really irk me,\" and said that she herself \"had two abortions during my all-too-fertile years.\" In her 1990 book of essays \"The Worst Years of Our Lives\", she wrote that \"the one regret I have about my own abortions is that they cost money that might otherwise have been spent on something more pleasurable, like taking the kids to movies and theme parks.\"\n\nEhrenreich was diagnosed with breast cancer shortly after the release of her book \"Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America\". This resulted in the award-winning article \"Welcome to Cancerland,\" published in the November 2001 issue of \"Harper's Magazine\". The article inspired the 2011 documentary \"Pink Ribbons, Inc.\".\n\nIn 2000, Ehrenreich endorsed the Presidential campaign of Ralph Nader; in 2004, she urged voters to support John Kerry in the swing states. In February 2008, Ehrenreich expressed support for Senator Barack Obama in the 2008 U.S. presidential campaign.\n\nEhrenreich lives in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "312102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312102", "title": "Bazilio Olara-Okello", "text": "Bazilio Olara-Okello\n\nLieutenant General Bazilio Olara-Okello (1929 – 9 January 1990) was a Ugandan military officer and one of the commanders of the Uganda National Liberation Army (UNLA) that together with the Tanzanian army overthrew Idi Amin in 1979. In 1985, he was briefly the chairman of the ruling Military Council and \"de facto\" head of state of Uganda, and later, Lieutenant General and chief of the armed forces.\n\nDuring the civil war in Uganda between the UNLA (which was now the national army) and Yoweri Museveni's National Resistance Army, president Milton Obote alienated much of the Acholi-dominated officer corps, including Olara-Okello and General Tito Okello, by appointing his fellow ethnic Lango, Brigadier Smith Opon Acak, as army Chief of Staff. On 27 July 1985, an army brigade of the UNLA commanded by Olara-Okello, and composed mostly of Acholi troops, staged a coup d'état against Milton Obote's government and seized power. The National Assembly was dissolved and a Military Council was established. Between 27 and 29 July 1985, Olara-Okello was Chairman of the Military Council, and \"de facto\" head of state.\n\nOn 29 July, General Tito Okello replaced Olara-Okello as Chairman of the Military Council, and Olara-Okello was promoted from the rank of Brigadier to that of Lieutenant General, and named chief of the armed forces. He commanded the army until Yoweri Museveni's National Resistance Army seized power on 26 January 1986. Olara-Okello fled to exile in Sudan, where he lived until he died in Omdurman Hospital in Khartoum on 9 January 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37976", "title": "Belarusians", "text": "Belarusians\n\nBelarusians () are an East Slavic ethnic group who are native to modern-day Belarus and the immediate region. There are over 9.5 million people who proclaim Belarusian ethnicity worldwide, with the majority residing either in Belarus or the adjacent countries where they are an autochthonous minority.\n\nBelarusians are an East Slavic ethnic group who populate the majority of the Belarus. Belarusian minority populations live in countries neighboring Belarus: in Ukraine, in Poland (especially in the Podlaskie Voivodeship), in the Russian Federation and in Lithuania. At the beginning of the 20th century Belarusians constituted a minority in the regions around the city of Smolensk in Russia.\n\nSignificant numbers of Belarusians emigrated to the United States, Brazil and Canada in the early 20th century. During Soviet times (1917–1991), many Belarusians were deported or migrated to various regions of the USSR, including Siberia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine.\n\nSince the breakup of the USSR in 1991 several hundred thousand have emigrated to the Baltic states, the United States, Canada, Russia, and EU countries.\n\nThe two official languages in Belarus are Belarusian and Russian. Russian is the most spoken language, principally by 72% of the population, while Belarusian is only used by 11.9% in everyday life. According to a study, in varying degrees, the vast majority of residents speak the Belarusian language: 29.4% are fluent, being able read and write it, 52.5% can speak and read the language, 8.3% can understand it but can't speak or read it, while a further 7% are able to understand the parts of Belarusian language that are similar to Russian. Belarusian is a language of the East Slavic group.\n\nThe name \"Belarus\" can be literally translated as \"White Ruthenia\" that is a historical region in the east of modern Republic of Belarus, known in Latin as \"Ruthenia Alba\" (). This name was in use in the West for some time in history, together with \"White Ruthenes\". Belarusians trace their name back to the people of Rus'.\n\nThe term Belarusians was promoted mostly during the 19th century by the Russian Empire. For instance, this can be traced by editions of folklorist researches by Ivan Sakharov, where in the edition of 1836 Belarusian customs are described as \"Litvin\", while in the edition of 1886 the words Литва (\"Lithuania\") are replaced by respectively Беларусь (\"Belarus\") and беларусы (\"Belarusians\").\n\nThe Belarusian people trace their distinct culture to the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, earlier Kievan Rus and the Principality of Polatsk. Most Belarusians are descendants of the East Slav tribes Dregovichs, Krivichs and Radimichs, as well as of a Baltic tribe of Yotvingians who lived in the west and north-west of today's Belarus.\n\nBelarusians began to emerge as a people during the thirteenth through fourteenth centuries in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Mostly on the lands of the upper basins of Neman River, Dnieper River and the Western Dvina River.\n\nIn 13th–18th centuries Belarusians were known as \"Ruthenians\" and spoke Ruthenian language, while being part of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, which conquered the lands of White Ruthenia, Black Ruthenia and Polesia. Casimir's Code of 1468 and all three editions of Statutes of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania (1529, 1566, and 1588) were written in the Ruthenian language. From the 1630s it was replaced by Polish, as a result of Polish high culture acquiring increasing prestige in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nBetween 1791 and 1917 much of Belarus, with its Christian and Jewish populations, was acquired by the Russian Empire in a series of military conquests and diplomatic maneuvers, and was made part of a region known as the Pale of Settlement.\n\nAfter World War I Belarusians created their own national state, with varying degrees of independence – first as the short-lived Belarusian National Republic under German occupation, then as the Belarusian SSR from 1919 until 1991, which merged with other republics to become a constituent member of the Soviet Union in 1922. Belarus gained full independence with the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nBelarusian cuisine shares the same roots with cuisines of other Eastern and Northern European countries, basing predominantly on meat and various vegetables typical for the region.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12758200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12758200", "title": "Beth Clement", "text": "Beth Clement\n\nBeth Clement is a fictional character from British Channel 4 soap opera, \"Hollyoaks\", played by Sinéad Moynihan. Beth first appeared as a student at Hollyoaks Community College, studying for a nursing degree and was later involved in an accidental incest storyline with her half-brother, Rhys Ashworth (Andrew Moss). Beth died in a car accident on 18 April 2008.\n\nThe character of Beth was introduced in November 2007, played by Sinéad Moynihan, as a love interest for established character Rhys Ashworth (Andrew Moss). It was revealed that the character would discover she is the half-sister of Rhys, starting an incestuous relationship.\n\nSpeaking of her character, Moynihan said: \"I'm thrilled to be joining the cast of \"Hollyoaks\" and to be playing the character of enigmatic rock chick Beth. She's a quick-witted and independent young woman who loves indie and rock music as well as having a real lust for life.\" She continued, \"Beth's got some great storylines lined up and I'm looking forward to the viewers' reactions as both her character and relationship with Rhys develops.\" A Channel 4 spokesperson also commented on Beth's upcoming storyline, saying: \"Beth's going to be central to a massive autumn storyline for Hollyoaks which will turn certain characters' worlds upside down.\"\n\nBeth first appears when she is run over by Rhys Ashworth whilst they are both on their way to purchase tickets to see a band. Beth is not injured, but discovers Rhys has bought the last tickets for himself. Rhys gives Beth a ticket, which belonged to his friend Gilly Roach. The pair swap numbers and begin to date. They quickly fall for each other. Rhys's family does not believe him when he tells them he has found a girlfriend. However, Beth begins to avoid Rhys. Unknown to Rhys, this is because her father has died. Rhys's father Noel Ashworth dies and Rhys attends the wake. Noel's brother Neville then introduces Rhys to Noel's daughter, Beth. Rhys and Beth avoid each other, and Rhys is angry, believing Beth had known all along that they were half siblings. He then tells her that he never wants to see her again. However, Beth soon begins at Hollyoaks Community College, despite applying for a transfer. Beth befriends fellow students, Zoe Carpenter and Kris Fisher, giving her a reason to stay in the village. Slowly, Rhys and Beth resolve their differences as Beth moves in with the Ashworths. The family throw her a birthday party to make her feel welcome. She becomes friends with her cousin Hannah Ashworth and they go on a double date with Gilly and Danny Valentine. Beth and Gilly eventually kiss and become a couple, which makes Rhys jealous. After months of hiding their feelings, Rhys and Beth give in. However, they both try to forget about it the next day. Gilly then takes Beth on a trip to Thailand. Before they leave, Beth and Rhys admit their love for each other, despite knowing it is illegal.\n\nBeth and Gilly return from Thailand and are surprised to see Rhys has a new girlfriend, Mercedes McQueen. The following day, Rhys warns Beth that Gilly is planning to propose marriage to her. When Gilly proposes, Beth reluctantly agrees, despite continuing an affair with Rhys. Rhys and Beth decide to run away together, but Rhys realises his family need him. Beth becomes even more jealous of Rhys and Mercedes' relationship. Eventually Beth breaks down in front of Rhys, telling him she wants to be with him. As they kiss, they are both unaware that Mercedes' sister, Michaela McQueen is watching. Michaela confronts them. However, they tell her it is due to her drug habit. Angered, Michaela tells Gilly what she saw. However, he refuses to believe her. Despite this, he returns home, only to find Rhys and Beth in bed together. As the rest of the Ashworths return home, Gilly attacks Rhys and informs his family of his affair. Neville, Suzanne, Josh and Hannah are disgusted. Rhys and Beth are then thrown out of their home, having to move into the student accommodation. Beth and Rhys are questioned by the police and a court date is set. Realising they face prison, the couple decide to flee Hollyoaks. Gilly confronts them, before giving them the keys to his campervan. Rhys and Beth drive off. However, as they kiss, Rhys unknowingly drives onto the wrong side of the road and ends up in a collision with a lorry. Rhys wakes up in hospital the next day. However, he is told Beth was killed in the crash.\n\n"}
{"id": "25260078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25260078", "title": "Buddhi Pradhan", "text": "Buddhi Pradhan\n\nBuddhi Bahadhur Pradhan () (born 15 December 1978 in Biratnagar, Nepal) is an international cricket umpire. He has umpired 24 One Day Internationals and 16 Twenty20 International matches, all involving the associate nations. He was the first umpire from Nepal to stand in a One Day International match.\n\nIn January 2018, he was named as one of the seventeen on-field umpires for the 2018 Under-19 Cricket World Cup.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44218415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44218415", "title": "Charles Burt", "text": "Charles Burt\n\nCharles Burt was a Scottish artist known for line engraving.\n\nHe was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, 8 Nov 1823(?) to Charles and Jessie (Kennedy) Burt. He showed a gift for drawing at a young age. At the age of 17 he won the student contest for best drawing of the Eddystone lighthouse, drawn from a verbal description: this work was apparently hanging in the halls of Edinburgh high school for many years. While still in Scotland, he was apprenticed to William Home Lizars. He emigrated to New York City in 1836, and went to work for Alexander L. Dick. Under his employ, Burt illustrated many books and engraved a number of portraits. Most of this work during this time is untraceable, as it was all published under Dick's name. It is widely assumed that the engraving of Leonardo's Last Supper is Burt's handiwork.\n\nAs a member of the American Art Union, Burt engraved several signed larger plates including: Sir Walter Raleigh Parting with his Wife (after Emanuel Leutze -1846); The Signing of the Death Warrant of Lady Jane Grey (after Daniel Huntington -1848); Anne Page, Slender, and Shallow (after Charles Robert Leslie -1850); Bargaining for a Horse (after William Sidney Mount -1851), and Marion Crossing the Pedee (after William Tylee Ranney -1851).\n\nHowever, it was as one of the principal engravers for the US Treasury Department, that Burt is most remembered. He engraved Lincoln's portrait for the $100 bill In 1869. (This image remained on other large notes until 1928 when currency was reduced to the smaller size in use today: Lincoln's portrait remained on the $5 bill until 2000). After 1850, Burt's focus was mainly on banknote engraving, which he was to do for over thirty years on behalf of the U.S. Treasury. He also engraved plates for postage stamps for Canada, Brazil, Italy, Russia and Chile, among others.\n\nCharles Burt was married on 3 June 1844 in Rockaway, NJ, to Margaret, daughter of Thomas Sargeant (of Parsipanny, NJ.). He lived most of his life in Brooklyn NY and died there on 25 March 1892. He was survived by his wife, one son and seven daughters.\n"}
{"id": "25911369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25911369", "title": "Copenhagen Suborbitals", "text": "Copenhagen Suborbitals\n\nCopenhagen Suborbitals is the world's only manned, amateur, crowd funded space programme. Since its beginning in 2008, Copenhagen Suborbitals has flown five home built rockets and two mock-up space capsules. Their stated goal is to have one of the members fly into space (above 100 km), on a sub-orbital spaceflight, in a space capsule on the Spica rocket. The company is planning to launch its Nexø II rocket in summer 2018.\n\nAs an amateur organisation, the 55 members use their spare time on the project, while at the same time having regular dayjobs. At the annual general assembly, they elect a chairman and boardmembers. Currently (2017), the chairman is Kristian Elof Sørensen, who also leads the Copenhagen Suborbitals maritime group.\n\nAs of 2017, three members are candidates for becoming the first astronaut to fly on the Spica rocket:\n\nFunding comes from people all over the world donating to the project, many of them on a monthly basis as members of Copenhagen Suborbitals Support. This is augmented by fees from speeches and lectures done by group members. Also, in 2015 Copenhagen Suborbitals taught students from the National Technical University of Singapore in basic rocket design, for which the group received a fee. All income goes directly to the group's project, with all members working completely for free.\n\nA unique aspect of the project is that all rockets are launched at sea. As a non-governmental, non-commercial organisation, flying rockets from land is virtually impossible anywhere in the world. Therefore, the group conducts all flights from a mobile launch platform, MLP Sputnik, in international waters on the Baltic Sea, east of the Danish island Bornholm. The port of Nexø becomes the Copenhagen Suborbitals fleet's homeport during the summer launch missions, affectionately dubbed Spaceport Nexø. The group operates 3 ships:\nDuring missions, the three vessels are augmented by multiple ships (often including the patrol vessel MHV903 Hjortø from the Danish Naval Home Guard), boats and aircraft. When not deployed, Vostok and Sputnik are based at Copenhagen Suborbitals HQ in the port of Copenhagen.\n\nCopenhagen Suborbitals was founded in 2008 by Kristian von Bengtson and now-disgraced Peter Madsen (who was later convicted of murdering Kim Wall) as a non-profit, crowd funded project where important aspects of the operation were described in detail on blogs and lectures.\n\nOn 23 February 2014 the board of Copenhagen Suborbitals announced that Kristian von Bengtson had left the group, after falling out with Madsen. In June 2014 Madsen also left the group, after years of disagreement with the other members of the group. Since then Madsen has had no connection with Copenhagen Suborbitals.\n\nFrom the launch site on the Baltic Sea, the Spica rocket will carry the Spica capsule and the astronaut into space above 100 km. The capsule will separate and fall back to earth, where it will be decelerated by a ballute and parachutes, and land back in the Baltic Sea.\n\nCS started on a barge called M/S Half Machine in Port of Copenhagen. On 1 August 2009 they relocated to its base and office on Refshaleøen, the old Burmeister & Wain shipyard, in Copenhagen. Their workshop is dubbed HAB 2 (\"Horizontal Assembly Building\" as a reference to NASA's VAB).\n\nIn 2014, Copenhagen Suborbitals settled on the basic design for their first crewed rocket and space capsule. The rocket will be named Spica, and will stand 12–14 m tall with a diameter of 950 mm. It will be powered by the BPM-100 engine class, using liquid oxygen as oxidizer and ethanol as fuel, producing 100 kilonewtons of thrust. It's likely to feature pressure blow down tanks, optimised by a dynamic pressure regulation (DPR) system, but turbo pumps are also a possibility, albeit they are very difficult to build. Flight control will be thrust vectoring via a gimbal engine. The rocket will be fully guided by homebuilt electronics and software. Most of the systems and technology will initially be tested on the smaller Nexø class rockets in 2016/18. The space capsule will be of a tubular design as its predecessor Tycho Brahe, but its greater diameter will allow the astronaut to assume a sitting position during launch and re-entry, in order to withstand the G-forces.\n\nIn 2014/2015 the group designed, built and tested a series of smaller engines with a nominal thrust of 2 and 5 kN.\nThe BPM-5 class will fly on the Nexø I and II rockets in 2016/2018, paving the way for the much bigger Spica rocket and engine. The purpose was to validate the performance and operation of the group's new engine design direction. The tests were highly successful, with results exceeding expectations. Different fuel additives (such as TEOS) as well as different jet vane material were also tested.\nThe BPM engines are bi-liquid rocket engines using LOX and ethanol, regeneratively cooled by the ethanol fuel. The spring/summer 2015 test firings used passive pressure blow-down, and in winter 2015/2016 will see the test firings continue with a dynamic pressure (DPR) regulation system, which then will fly on the Nexø II rocket in spring 2018.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2012, the group based the work on a hybrid rocket, using liquid oxygen (LOX) as oxidizer. Originally, the HEAT-1X rocket was to be fuelled by paraffin wax, but a ground test 28 February 2010 revealed that some of the paraffin wax had only partially melted, instead of evaporating. The result was that HEAT-1X had less power than expected. A ground test firing of HEAT-1X-P (P for polyurethane) was conducted 16 May 2010. It was positive, the polyurethane had the right power but showed heavy oscillation. Until 2011 the group had performed more than 30 tests of various engine types at their rocket engine test facility at Refshaleøen. In fall of 2012 a concept engine using white fuming nitric acid and furfuryl alcohol was tried using a static test setup. In 2012 it was decided to switch to bi-propellant, liquid fuelled engines running on liquid oxygen and ethanol.\n\nThe HATV (Hybrid Atmospheric Test Vehicle) was a 220 mm diameter hybrid booster, used for testing purposes, it is 1/3 the size of the HEAT rocket. It produces approximately 12 kN thrust within a combustion time of 20 seconds.\n\nHEAT 1X (\"Hybrid Exo Atmospheric Transporter\") was the rocket booster module, intended to launch the Space capsule \"Tycho Brahe\" into space, the combination being known as HEAT-1X TYCHO BRAHE.\nThe rocket design was the result of numerous static booster tests of the solid fuel epoxy and the liquid oxidizer nitrous oxide. A combination which was also used in the scale-down test rocket HATV (\"Hybrid Atmospheric Test Vehicle\") which was only 1/3 size of the HEAT.\nStabilization of the rocket was by rollerons, a mechanism also used to stabilize missiles. The rocket was successfully launched 3 June 2011 but the test was aborted at an altitude of 2.8 km.\n\nTM-65 and TM6-5 IIA/B were liquid propellant engines using 75% Ethanol and liquid oxygen (LOX) as oxidizer. These engines produced about 65 kN thrust. First static tests were conducted in May 2012. One TM65 II engine was for HEAT-2X and one was for HEAT-1600 LE. The TM-65 engine passed the test undamaged, and was fired at up to 50% of its rated thrust. The group planned to repeat the test with higher thrust levels, until the TM-65 class in 2014 was abandoned in favour of the BPM-100 engine concept.\n\nThe HEAT-2X was a rocket built for flight testing the TM-65 engine. It was planned to carry a 1:3 scale, 80 kg space capsule mock-up, TDS-80, into the stratosphere.\n\nThe rocket was not flown as it suffered an engine fire during a static test in the summer of 2014. The rocket nozzle imploded and a welding seam opened resulting in the expulsion of all the ethanol fuel (some 500 L) in just 3 seconds resulting in a large fire which damaged the part of the rocket.\nThe engine failure and subsequent fire was filmed up close with a high speed camera, which although burned on the outside, survived the inferno enough for the film to be recovered.\n\nThe HEAT-1600 LE and HEAT-1600 (after the 1600 mm diameter of the rockets), were the biggest rocket concept by the group, and was in pre-production in 2013. However, the 1600 mm diameter rocket and capsule concept was abandoned in 2014, in favour of the 950 mm diameter Spica rocket and capsule. HEAT-1600 LE was to be a full size version of the HEAT-1600 with only one TM-65 engine. The HEAT-1600 was planned to fly with a single 260 kN engine or a cluster of 4 x TM-65 engines fed by turbo pumps on a single stage.\n\nThe micro space craft (MSC), named Tycho Brahe after the Danish astronomer, has a steel pressure hull, with room for one passenger. The passenger would be able to view the outside through a Perspex dome. The occupant would fly in a half-standing/half-sitting position, in a specially designed seat, and wearing anti-G trousers to avoid blackout. Another compartment contains both the high-speed drogue parachute and the low-speed main parachutes for deceleration. The sheer volume of the MSC will provide the buoyancy in the water upon touchdown.\n\nThe first MSC was christened \"Tycho Brahe 1\" and its first flight was uncrewed using a crash test dummy. A new aluminium MSC called MAX-1 named after Maxime Faget is under development.\nAccording to the group development on this capsule has been abandoned due to the physiological problems associated with large acceleration of a human in standing position. The craft is now on display in the Tycho Brahe Planetarium in Copenhagen.\n\n\"Tycho Deep Space\" is a space capsule developed by von Bengtson. The first version officially named \"Beautiful Betty\" by Mikael Bertelsen, the capsule's protector. The uncrewed capsule was launched on 12 August 2012 at sea by a test Launch Escape System, off the coast of Bornholm. The launch did not provide enough height for the parachute to deploy and the capsule was partly damaged on impact with the sea. The capsule is 2 meters in diameter, allowing for an astronaut to be in a horizontal position relative to the acceleration during launch and landing.\n\nThe group originally focused on launching from a land based spaceport like Andøya, Kiruna or Iceland The focus however turned towards a sea launch, just outside the territorial waters of Denmark.\nA permission to launch was given by Danish authorities, but the first option, the North Sea, a possibility suggested by Danish Civil Aviation Administration (\"Statens Luftfartsvæsen\"), was rejected in 2009 by the Danish Maritime Authority (\"Søfartsstyrelsen\"). They preferred another area and then gave a formal and written permission to launch from the military firing range ESD138/ESD139, which is located on the position in the Baltic Sea.\nIt is just outside Nexø on the Danish island of Bornholm and is therefore nicknamed Spaceport Nexø. The CS then had to build a floating mobile launcher platform (MLP), called \"Sputnik\" after the Russian spacecraft which was the first artificial satellite to be put into orbit.\nTheir launch campaigns includes the following ships:\n\nThe first full-scale test-launch aimed at 30 km altitude was planned to be conducted off the coast of Bornholm between 30 August and 13 September 2010. The vehicle carried a crash test dummy \"Rescue Randy\" instead of a human pilot, with crewed flight not planned for some years. The success criteria were the completion of the sea voyage and countdown with launch and recovery planned as a bonus.\n\nOn Tuesday, 31 August 2010, the privately built Danish submarine UC3 Nautilus pushed the launch platform Sputnik carrying the rocket and spacecraft from Copenhagen towards the launch area near Nexø, Bornholm.\n\nA launch attempt was made on Sunday, 5 September 2010, 14:43 CEST, but the motor could not be started due to a failure of the LOX valve which is assumed to be caused by insufficient heating of the valve. The design famously included a consumer hair dryer for defrosting the LOX-valve; in effect it was not the blow-dryer but its power supply that failed.\n\nThe group promised to come back the year after to attempt the launch again.\n\nHaving done updates on the rocket, and the valve, and with MLP-Sputnik under her own power, and a support vessel, the group sailed again for Spaceport Nexø on May 28 at 4:50 a.m. They again met up with MHV Hjortø, a Naval Home Guard vessel that serves as mission control and recovery vessel.\nThe second launch attempt was more successful and the maiden flight took place 3 June 2011, at 16:32 local time (CEST) (14:32 GMT). The HEAT-1X rocket lifted off and ascended to an altitude of only 2.8 km, because Mission Control had to shut the engine off after 21 seconds. Although there were problems with the parachutes, the \"HEAT-1X Tycho Brahe\" was recovered and the flight produced useful data for subsequent development of the program.\n\nThe SMARAGD rocket (\"emerald\" in Danish) is a 5.7 meter two-stage rocket weighing 160 kg, intended to reach an altitude of 8 km, that was used for testing various technological aspects of the operation.\nOn July 27, 2012, the team set out from Nexø towards the launch site, intending to launch the SMARAGD rocket. After some initial problems with the remote launch control, the rocket launched successfully just after 1 pm and reached the maximum altitude of 8.2 km. It was evident shortly after take off that the nosecone, containing electronics, broke off during launch, possibly due to the large acceleration of estimated 20 g.\n\nOn 12 August 2012 at 09:18, the space capsule Tycho Deep Space, was launched to test a launch escape system. However the parachute did not deploy properly and the capsule was damaged on impact. Several media had misunderstood the schedule and proclaimed the launch to have been started prematurely due to an error. The test was considered partly successful by the team, due to the successful rocket launch and the unsuccessful parachute deployment. The launch could be followed live via live streaming from several video cameras, additionally high speed cameras were mounted on the MLP.\n\n\"SAPPHIRE-1\", a modification of the HATV, was a 4.5 m rocket whose main purpose was to test the active guidance system developed by Copenhagen Suborbitals. It was successfully launched on 23 June 2013.\n\nNexø I was launched Saturday, 23 July 2016, with inaugural BPM-5 engine. It was a partial success. The supply of liquid oxygen to the engine was insufficient due to partial premature evaporation.\n\nThe preparation of the launch of Nexø II is ongoing. However, as of April 2018, the rocket didn't get off the ground this year due to NoGo from the Swedish air traffic control. It launched on 04 August 2018, with slightly modified BPM-5 engine.\n\nSome of the things Copenhagen Suborbitals have achieved so far are:\nOn 3 October 2013, Copenhagen Suborbitals was awarded the \"Breitling Milestone Trophy\" award by Fédération Aéronautique Internationale at a ceremony in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nOn 5 October 2010 an independent group of space enthusiasts founded the Copenhagen Suborbitals Support group (CSS). The main purpose of this group is to \"support CS economically, morally and practically in their mission\". Within two days after its founding, CSS reached 100 members. November 15, 2011 marked a major milestone for CSS as 500 members was reached. As of early 2014, around 1000 members was recorded.\n\nBy paying a fixed monthly amount, the members of Copenhagen Suborbitals Support now covers most of the fixed costs for the project in addition to donating various forms of hardware. By 2015, CS was supported with per month.\n\n"}
{"id": "439578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=439578", "title": "Crank Yankers", "text": "Crank Yankers\n\nCrank Yankers is an American television show produced by Adam Carolla, Jimmy Kimmel and Daniel Kellison that featured actual crank calls made by show regulars and celebrity guests and re-enacted onscreen by puppets for a visual aid to show the viewer what is happening in the call. The show premiered in 2002 on Comedy Central and returned to MTV2 on February 9, 2007, running again until March 30, 2007. The show screened in Australia on SBS Television and The Comedy Channel between 2003 and 2008.\n\nIn 2011, there was a pilot for a traditionally-animated spinoff called \"Birchum\" featuring Dick Birchum as the main character. He was redesigned to look younger and had a mustache. The pilot was made for FOX but was not picked up as a series.\nThe performers are given a basic outline of a premise by the writers, and call telephone numbers from a list of selected targets (known as \"marks\"). Using the basic premises, the performers improvise most of their lines, playing off of the responses of their marks, with the intention to keep them on the phone as long as possible.\n\nWith the exception of a few outside sources (including previous material from Jim Florentine and the Touch-Tone Terrorists), all the calls are made from Nevada. The Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 makes it illegal in most states to record telephone calls without both parties' consent. Under Nevada law, only one of the parties has to give consent (i.e., the caller), so prank calls can be recorded without the consent of the prank victims. One result of this was the series' schedule of creating and airing new episodes was fairly sporadic due to most of the celebrities living in Los Angeles, having Los Angeles-based jobs, and so were only periodically able to go to Las Vegas to make calls. Adam Carolla, for example, took his radio program to Las Vegas once or twice a year, and while there would record new calls for the program.\n\nThe puppet designs were drawn by artist Todd James before being constructed based on the various marks' voices, and, along with a series of stock characters (such as \"Niles Standish\", \"Bobby Fletcher\", and \"Special Ed\") based on the performers' character voices, the calls are re-enacted for the skits. \n\nThe main character puppets for the first season were constructed by Bob Flanagan's company Den Design with additional puppets built by BJ Guyer, Carol Binion, Rick Lyon, Ron Binion, Jim Kroupa, and Artie Esposito. An in-house puppet shop was set up for the following seasons to accommodate the fast-paced schedule of the show and the sheer volume of puppet characters required for each episode.\n\nThe puppets are puppeteered by Ronald Binion, Rick Lyon, BJ Guyer, Victor Yerrid, Paul McGinnis, Alice Dinean Vernon, and Artie Esposito.\n\nOriginally, the show was titled \"Prank Puppets\"; it was renamed after Comedy Central lawyers deemed that it implied malice.\n\n\nChief artists working for the show include:\nThere are currently no plans for a DVD release for seasons 3 & 4\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13441970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13441970", "title": "Cross-dressing, gender identity, and sexuality of Joan of Arc", "text": "Cross-dressing, gender identity, and sexuality of Joan of Arc\n\nJoan of Arc (Fr: \"Jeanne d'Arc\"), a French historical figure executed by the English for heresy in 1431, is a national heroine of France and a Roman Catholic saint. Joan accompanied an army during the Hundred Years War, adopting the clothing of a soldier, which ultimately provided a pretense for her conviction and execution. Whether her crossdressing and lifestyle have implications for her sexuality or gender identity is debated.\n\nKelly DeVries notes that, \"No person of the Middle Ages, male or female, has been the subject of more study than Joan of Arc. She has been portrayed as saint, heretic, religious zealot, seer, demented teenager, proto-feminist, aristocratic wanna-be, savior of France, person who turned the tide of the Hundred Years War and even Marxist liberator.\"\n\nAfter her capture during the siege of Compiegne while retreating from a failed attack at Margny, Joan was sold to the English, imprisoned, and subsequently put on trial for heresy. Despite the attempts by the judges to induce her to repent for her wearing of male attire, Joan repeatedly defended the wearing of this clothing as a \"small matter\" that was \"the commandment of God and his angels.\" As Pernoud and Clin note, \"Other questions about her mode of dress provoked only repetitions of these answers: She had done nothing that was not by the commandment of God. Probably not even Cauchon could then have guessed the importance that her mode of dress would come to assume.\"\n\nJoan signed a cedula, possibly without understanding the text, indicating that she would no longer wear men's clothing, only to \"relapse\" later, giving the court justification to have her executed (\"Only those who had relapsed -- that is, those who having once adjured their errors returned to them -- could be condemned to death by a tribunal of the Inquisition and delivered for death.\") On May 30, 1431, Joan of Arc was burned at the stake.\n\nLife and society in the late Middle Ages was heavily dominated by the teachings of the church. Concerning crossdressing, Deuteronomy 22:5, which states, \"The woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto a man ...\" made crossdressing anathema. On the other hand, there were the guidelines of St. Thomas Aquinas, who wrote that \"... it is in itself sinful for a woman to wear man's clothes, or vice versa; especially since this may be a cause of sensuous pleasure ... Nevertheless this may be done sometimes without sin on account of some necessity, either in order to hide oneself from enemies, or through lack of other clothes, or for some similar motive.\",\n\nVern and Bonnie Bullough comment that despite the specific canons against it, one might search the church fathers in vain for overt and unconditional approbations on transvestism. On the contrary, Susan Schibanoff notes that \"one version of transvestism appears to have been both admired and encouraged, albeit indirectly, in the legends of female saints who disguised themselves as men to live as monks\". As a consequence, Joan's accusers were forced to carefully frame their accusations that Joan retained \"nothing about her to display and announce her sex, save Nature's own distinctive marks\". That is, unlike the holy transvestites, who totally disguised their sex, Joan had not concealed her anatomy or other \"marks\" of her biological femininity.\n\nThe \"holy transvestite\" - i.e., transvestite female saint - was a common medieval archetype, and one of the grounds used to defend Joan's attire. Saint Pelagia followed the classic story: fearing for her virginity on her wedding night, she cut off her hair, donned male attire, left her husband, joined a monastery, passing herself off as \"Brother Pelagius\". The devil tested her by framing her for the pregnancy of one of the nuns, and she was driven into exile. She clung to her identity until her deathbed, where she confessed and was absolved of guilt.\n\nWith regard to the holy transvestites, Gaunt argues that \"Sexuality is central to the construction of sanctity in the Middle Ages,\" and that holy men and women are not removed from sexuality, but continue to define themselves through reference to sexuality that has been reshaped and redirected. Gaunt agrees with Anson in the description of these stories as \"monastic fantasy\" that attempts to appease sexual longing by imagining a woman in the monastery who need not inspire guilt; however, the appeasing of the longing is complexly gendered by the apparent masculinity of the subject.\n\n15th-century Europe possessed a significant cultural lore of such saints extending back nearly as far as the history of Christianity. Saint Thecla, sourced from the New Testament Apocrypha The \"Acts of Paul and Thecla\", was so enraptured with the teachings of Paul that she left her fiance and followed him, dressing as a man part of the time while in his retinue. Thecla's story was very popular and widespread, with depictions of her and dedications ranging from Antioch to Iberia. According to Dekker and van de Pol, \"The transformation into a man was a very dominant theme with female saints from the fifth to the seventh century. Saint Margaret, for example, escaped on her wedding night in men's clothes. ... A saint especially popular among the common people in Europe from the eleventh century on ... was Saint Uncumber. She was a Portuguese princess who refused to be married to the heathen King of Sicily, and prayed to God to be saved from this fate. Her salvation was unusual; she suddenly grew a beard. Variations on this theme recur more often ... As always, myth and reality interact, and several medieval women took these saints as their models. The example that first comes to mind here is Joan of Arc.\" Likewise, numerous legends and tales from Medieval Europe (and, likewise, elsewhere in the world) discuss transvestism and sex change (often miraculous). Folklorist Stith Thompson documents only a few traditional \"sex tests\" for unmasking men dressed as women, but numerous tests for women, ranging from placing a spinning wheel nearby to scattering peas on the ground to cause women to slip but not men. The latter example is well known from Grimm's Fairy Tales, but can also be found in William Shakespeare's As You Like It, and the trick is even attributed to as far back as King Solomon.\n\nDespite these examples, female cross-dressers in Europe were little accepted. The only known case of accepted female gender inversion in Medieval Europe comes from the Balkans, and extends back as far as the 15th century, as noted by a mention in the \"Kanun\". These women could escape the very rigid social rules by declaring themselves sworn virgins, and would dress as men, live as men, and share the same status as them. Families without male heirs could even declare their infant daughters to be men and rear them as boys. Such a tradition did not exist elsewhere in Europe at the time. Dr. Carleton S. Coon noted the same custom among the mountaineers of Albania, and that under certain circumstances a woman dressing as a man becomes the head of the family and assumes a completely male role.\n\nBennett and Froide, in \"Single women in the European Past\", note: \"Other single women found emotional comfort and sexual pleasure with women. The history of same-sex relations between women in medieval and early modern Europe is exceedingly difficult to study, but there can be no doubt of its existence. Church leaders worried about lesbian sex; women expressed, practiced, and were sometimes imprisoned or even executed for same-sex love; and some women cross-dressed in order to live with other women as married couples.\" They go on to note that even the seemingly modern word \"lesbian\" has been traced back as far as 1732, and discuss lesbian subcultures, but add, \"Nevertheless, we certainly should not equate the single state with lesbian practices.\" While same-sex relationships among men were highly documented and condemned, \"Moral theologians did not pay much attention to the question of what we would today call lesbian sex, perhaps because anything that did not involve a phallus did not fall within the bounds of their understanding of the sexual ... Some legislation against lesbian relations can be adduced for the period ... mainly involving the use of \"instruments,\" in other words, dildoes.\" Crane agrees, commenting on a \"penitential doctrine that conceived homoerotic acts but not homosexual identity ... Discourses of sexuality such as \"fine amor\" and mystical marriage with God may be less visible now than penitential doctrine, but their effects on subjectivity deserve the greater efforts of recovery.\"\n\nIn the context of the time, Joan was familiar with a long line of female cross-dressers living fully male lives, often at what they saw as God's calling. However, while she may have been aware of the context, she knew that her transvestism, while potentially acceptable to a degree, still carried social risks.\n\nDuring and immediately following her life, perspectives on Joan varied widely, often (although not always) along factional lines. Rumors of a woman leading an opposing army was historically used to incite troops against the obvious heresy, sorcery, and immorality. Comments from English soldiers at the time concerning Joan range from referring to her as a \"bloody tart\" to asking \"whether she expected [her soldiers] to surrender to a woman\" and referring to her troops as \"unbelieving pimps\". The English author of \"The Brut\" claimed that her troops followed her by \"crafte of sorcerie\". After his defeat at Orleans, Bedford reported to the English crown that his men had been bewitched by a satanic agent in the form of a woman dressed as a man. Crane notes that she was referred to as \"femme monstrueuse,\" \"femme désordonnée et diffamée, estant en habit d'homme et de gouvernement disslut\" (\"monstrous woman, disorderly and notorious woman who dresses in men's clothes, whose conduct is dissolute\").\n\nOn the other side of the English channel, the situation was largely reversed. From the beginning, for whatever reason, there was surprisingly little hesitation on the side of the French. Of special note was the loyalty given to her by her soldiers, who were among the most skilled in France. The Bourgeois of Paris claimed that this was because, \"all who disobeyed her should be killed without mercy\", but the author of the \"Journal du siege d'Orleans\" noted that \"All regarded her with much affection, men and women, as well as small children.\" Jean de Macon, an eyewitness to the siege of Orleans, noted that there was only one act of derision, while the Cronique de Lorraine added that \"All the army promised to always obey her. Each victory motivated more loyalty and further victory. Even disobedience to her higher command seems to have invited loyalty; she brought action and victory, while the older, noble generals achieved nothing but inaction and defeat.\nThese viewpoints tended to extend to her trials : first the Condemnation trial in the hands of the English, and later the rehabilitation trial under a commission appointed by Pope Calixtus III and organized by Charles VII. As Pinzino notes, \"The pro-English (Burgundian) party into whose hands Joan fell in 1430, over a year after her role in the vital French victory at Orleans, worked to defame her self-asserted divine calling and executed her at age nineteen in the marketplace of Rouen in 1431. In the years following, however, political power in France permanently reverted to the pro-French (Armagnac) party of Joan's supporters. Promptly after Normandy and the city of Rouen itself had been restored to the French (1449) and the ecclesiastical archives there were retrieved and opened, the proceedings to nullify Joan of Arc's condemnation were undertaken by her supporters ... these proceedings were virtually unprecedented in ecclesiastical judicial history.\"\nCharles VII, who owed his crown to Joan and had followed her, believing her to be divinely inspired, found himself now having been brought to power by a convicted heretic. On February 15, 1450, Charles dispatched a letter ordering the creation of a Royal Commission to reexamine the Condemnation trial, under the leadership of Guillaume d'Estouteville, Charles's cousin. As Pernoud and Clin note, \"That trial was now a symbol of complex cultural fissures in search of closure: of the internal fractures of a riven France, of national splits enervated by English invasion, and of religious and civil power struggles sustained by the University of Paris.\" The rehabilitation trial focused strongly on the transvestism charge, which Pope Pius II noted was problematic. Individuals testifying during the trial stressed the necessity of her dress, both for means of keeping order in her troops in battle and for protecting her chastity. As the trial noted, she wore \"long, conjoined hosen, attached to the aforesaid doublet with twenty cords (aiguillettes)\" and \"tight leggings\", with the cords being used to securely tie the parts of the garment together so her clothing couldn't be pulled off by the English guards. Guillaume Manchon testified, \"And she was then dressed in male clothing, and was complaining that she could not give it up, fearing lest in the night her guards would inflict some act of [sexual] outrage upon her,\" a claim backed up by a number of other witnesses. The same justification was given for her relapse by a number of witnesses, such as Friar Martin Ladvenu, Pierre Cusquel, Giullaume Manchon, and Friar Isambart de la Pierre, although a number of others, such as Jean Massieu, Pierre Daron, and Guillaume Colles, alternatively claimed that she was entrapped into wearing male clothing by a guard who took away her female clothing). Jean Moreau testified that he had heard Joan reply to the preacher that she had adopted male clothing during her campaign because she had to live among soldiers, among whom it was more appropriate for her to be in male, rather than female clothing. The court ruled that \"nothing improper has been found in her, only good humility, chastity, piety, propriety, simplicity.\"\n\nThese viewpoints remained the dominant perspective on Joan's crossdressing up until the modern age. As Régine Pernoud comments in the foreword to \"Joan of Arc\", serious books about her in any language \"numbered only a few dozen\". Likewise, the lack of modern acceptance of and knowledge about gender identity and sexuality further limited discourse on the subject.\n\nOne of the first modern writers to raise issues of gender identity and sexuality was novelist Vita Sackville-West. In \"Saint Joan of Arc\", published in 1936, she indirectly suggests that Joan of Arc may have been a lesbian.\n\nRebuttals were forthcoming and are widely mentioned. The most prominent rebuttal refers to the common medieval practice of women sharing beds with one another; bed sharing had no connotations in regard to sexuality. Bonnie Wheeler of the International Joan of Arc Society called the book \"dead wrong but fun\".\n\nPernoud credits Joan's clothing to necessity and her belief that it was ordained by God. Among other things, Pernoud cites large amounts of testimony, including Guillaume Manchon from the Rehabilitation trial: \"... at that time, she was dressed in male clothing, and kept complaining that she could not do without it, fearing that the guards would violate her in the night; and once or twice she had complained to the Bishop of Beauvais, the Vice-Inquisitor, and Master Nicholas Loiseleur that one of the guards had attempted to rape her.\"\n\nWarner argues that in pre-industrial Europe, a link existed between transvestism and priestly functions, hence justifying the historical interpretation of her as both a witch and a saint. Warner further argues for Joan as not occupying either a male or female gender. \"Through her transvestism, she abrogated the destiny of womankind. She could thereby transcend her sex. ... At the same time, by never pretending to be other than a woman and a maid, she was usurping a man's function but shaking off the trammels of his sex altogether to occupy a different, third order, neither male nor female\". Warner categorizes Joan as an androgyne.\n\nUnder the direction of L’Académie française, the Centre Jeanne d'Arc in Orleans has been working on a re-edition of Jules Quicherat's \"Procès de Jeanne d'Arc\". According to Bouzy, Quicherat's work forms the basis of most modern scholarship on Joan, but has been discovered to contain a number of errors, selective editing, and use of \"originals\" that were often highly edited or manipulated versions of earlier documents. Relevant to Joan's crossdressing is Jacques Gelu's treatise, one of the theological treatise ordered by Charles VII for her rehabilitation. Quicherat criticized the text as \"uninstructive hodgepodge\", and, according to him, \"made it considerably shorter, taking out parts of the passages where points of religious dogma are discussed.\" As Bouzy, a member of the Centre working on the project notes, \"This text has hardly ever been consulted by historians, although it provides interesting evidence for the way the fifteenth-century church perceived Joan. The text stresses the problem of Joan's cross dressing — this shows that in 1429, even the prelates who supported Charles VII were reluctant to accept a young girl dressed as a man. Apparently, Charles VII decided in favor of Joan only because his confessor, Gérard Machet, was convinced that Joan was the girl whose coming had been announced in a prophecy by Marie Robine, a hermit from Avignon; and even then, Charles required that she be thoroughly examined. Several other treatises that have never been translated (apart from Gerson's tract) are likely to hold surprises for us as well.\"\n"}
{"id": "25577953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25577953", "title": "DC Pierson", "text": "DC Pierson\n\nDonald Charles \"DC\" Pierson IV (born December 27, 1984) is an American comedian, author, and actor. He is best known for his involvement in the sketch and improvisational comedy group Derrick Comedy.\n\nPierson was born in Phoenix, Arizona.\n\nPierson attended Mountain Pointe High School, where he started acting and performing in a short-form improv group. He went on to attend NYU, joining the sketch comedy group Hammerkatz NYU in the fall of 2003. He worked as both assistant director and director during his 3-year tenure with the group. Pierson graduated from NYU's Dramatic Writing Department in 2007 with a degree in writing for television. He also made three brief appearances on NBC's \"Community\", on which his Derrick Comedy co-star Donald Glover plays a main character, as a \"Greendale Gazette\" member.\n\nPierson, along with other Hammerkatz alumni Donald Glover, Dominic Dierkes and Dan Eckman, formed the group Derrick Comedy after meeting at NYU. Pierson is both one of the principal actors and writers for Derrick Comedy.\n\nDerrick Comedy has performed as an improvisational comedy group at the UCB Theatre in New York, but are best known for their sketches that appear on YouTube and CollegeHumor. Pierson has played roles including an emo teenager and a man making a plea to the Godfather. Pierson co-wrote Derrick Comedy's first feature-length film, \"Mystery Team\", in which he also plays a self-described boy genius named Duncan.\n\nOn January 21, 2010, Pierson's first novel, \"The Boy Who Couldn't Sleep and Never Had To\", was released on Random House. The story follows two high school students who are social outcasts. When one of the students, Eric, reveals that he never sleeps, the two boys end up on the run. His book came to a broad audience when he personally answered a high school students questions regarding the work on Yahoo! Answers on 13 August 2012. On the page, the student asked for help in reviewing the book, a task which had been assigned to her by her teacher. She stated that lack of time, among other things, caused her to be unable to read the book. The author's reply to the student was first recognized by Techcrunch, and this coverage helped encourage more users to buy and read his book. One of Pierson's primary influences for his novel was the late J.D. Salinger. He is currently working on turning the book into a film, which will be directed by Dan Eckman. Pierson's second novel, Crap Kingdom, was released in 2013.\n\nPierson was featured on both of Childish Gambino's \"I Am Just A Rapper\" mixtapes, contributing verses to three different songs, 49ers (Orange Shirt), The Truth (Goth Star), and Different (Feel It All Around). Pierson along with Nick Packard was also featured on Childish Gambino's \"Assassins\" from the 2008 Album \"Sick Boi\". He was also featured along with Amber Petty on Childish Gambino's \"Starlight\" from the 2009 album Poindexter. Childish Gambino is the rap moniker of his fellow Derrick Comedy member, Donald Glover. He is also credited with the story told during \"That Power\" on Childish Gambino's Camp.\n\nDC Pierson has made a mixtape called \"Something Has Survived: A Small Rap Mixtape.\"\n\nPierson writes short stories on his website as well.\n\nIn January 2012, Pierson appeared on the YouTube sketch-comedy show \"Let's Talk About Something More Interesting\".\n\nIn 2014, Pierson had a brief cameo in \"\" as Apple tech support.\n\n"}
{"id": "906145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=906145", "title": "Derek Taunt", "text": "Derek Taunt\n\nDerek Roy Taunt (16 November 1917 – 15 July 2004) was a British mathematician who worked as a codebreaker during World War II at Bletchley Park.\n\nTaunt attended Enfield Grammar, then the City of London School. He studied mathematics at Jesus College, Cambridge between 1936 and 1939. He was accepted as a research student by G. H. Hardy, but this was postponed by the outbreak of World War II. Taunt registered with the Joint Recruiting Board, and was initially allocated to work on ballistics at Kemnal Manor in Chislehurst, preparing range tables for new weapons. Finding that the task required only trivial mathematics (\"more like advanced arithmetic than real mathematics\"), he sought more appropriate work.\n\nIn August 1941 he was moved to Bletchley Park and assigned to Hut 6, the section in charge of decrypting German Army and Air Force Enigma signals. While there, he was best man at the marriage of co-workers Bob Roseveare and Ione Jay.\n\nAfter his wartime work, he returned to Cambridge, and worked on group theory. He was a research student (1945), wrote a doctoral dissertation under Philip Hall, won a Smith's Prize in 1949, and was a Lecturer from 1949 with the honorific title of 'Cayley Lecturer' from 1965 until retirement in 1982. As a Fellow of Jesus College he was at various times a director of studies, tutor, bursar, and from 1979 to 1982 was President. In 1982 he became Emeritus Fellow, \"with most of the privileges and none of the duties of a Fellow.\" His doctoral students include Roger Carter.\n\nOn 18 December 1952 Taunt was elected a member of the London Mathematical Society.\n\n1. The obituary published in the Telegraph gives his birth date as the 16th, while that in the 2004 Jesus College Annual Report incorrectly records it as the 17th. GRO death index gives it as the 16th.\n\n2. Derek Taunt gives an account of his war work in: \n\n"}
{"id": "28973689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28973689", "title": "Doug Frost (wine)", "text": "Doug Frost (wine)\n\nDoug Frost is an American Master of Wine, and Master Sommelier as well as an author and wine consultant based in Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nFrost is one of four individuals in the world to simultaneously hold the Master of Wine and Master Sommelier titles, along with Gerard Basset, Ronn Wiegand and Eric Hemer, achieving his MS in 1991 and MW in 1993.\n\nFrost is a wine and spirits consultant for United Airlines, and is published in several works and periodicals, including \"The Oxford Companion to Wine\", Tom Stevenson's \"Wine Report\", \"San Francisco Chronicle\" and \"Wine & Spirits\". His published books are \"Uncorking Wine\" (1996), \"On Wine\" (2001) and \"Far From Ordinary Spanish Wine Buying Guide\" (2005). Frost also hosts the show \"Check Please Kansas City\" for KC Public Television.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "477003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477003", "title": "Elisabeth Volkenrath", "text": "Elisabeth Volkenrath\n\nElisabeth Volkenrath (née Mühlau; 5 September 1919 – 13 December 1945) was a German supervisor at several Nazi concentration camps during World War II.\n\nVolkenrath, née Mühlau, was an \"ungelernte Hilfskraft\" (unskilled worker) when she volunteered for service in a concentration camp. She started in October 1941 at Ravensbrück concentration camp as a simple \"Aufseherin\". In March 1942, she went to Auschwitz Birkenau where she worked in the same function as at Ravensbrück. At Auschwitz, she met \"SS-Rottenführer\" Heinz Volkenrath, who had worked there since 1941 as \"SS-Blockführer\". They married in 1943. Elisabeth Volkenrath participated in the selection of prisoners for the gas chambers and in November 1944 was promoted to \"Oberaufseherin\" for all camp sections for female prisoners at Auschwitz.\n\nElisabeth Volkenrath was transferred to Bergen-Belsen when Auschwitz was closed. From February 1945, she was \"Oberaufseherin\" (supervising wardress) at Bergen-Belsen.\n\nIn April 1945, she was arrested by the British Army, and stood trial in the Belsen Trial. Found guilty, she was sentenced to death, and executed by hanging at Hamelin prison by Albert Pierrepoint on 13 December 1945.\n"}
{"id": "4095959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4095959", "title": "Elliott Yamin", "text": "Elliott Yamin\n\nEfraym Elliott Yamin (born July 20, 1978) is an American singer widely known for his hit single \"Wait for You\" and for placing third on the fifth season of \"American Idol\".\n\nHis self-titled album, released March 20, 2007, debuted at number one on the \"Billboard\" Independent Albums chart and at number three on the \"Billboard\" 200. The album was certified gold in the United States in October 2007. Retitled \"Wait for You\", the album was released in Japan in May 2008 and certified gold in that country in September 2008.\n\nYamin also released two Christmas collections: \"Sounds of the Season: The Elliott Yamin Holiday Collection\" in October 2007 and \"My Kind of Holiday\" in October 2008.\n\nYamin's second album, titled \"Fight for Love\", was released on May 5, 2009. The album's first single, \"Fight for Love\", premiered on AOL Music on February 13, 2009.\n\nHis third album, \"Gather 'Round\" was released in Japan in 2011. It was retitled in the United States as \"Let's Get to What's Real\" and released in 2012. The first single in Japan and the United States was \"3 Words.\"\n\nHis fourth album, \"As Time Goes By\", was released exclusively for the Japanese market on November 5, 2015. Previous to the album release, a video for the single \"Katy\" was released on late October, 2015. Yamin travelled to Japan to promote the album in early November. \n\nYamin was born in Los Angeles, California, to father Shaul Yamin, an Israeli Jew of Iraqi Jewish descent, and mother Claudette Goldberg Yamin (d. March 31, 2008, age 65), a Jewish American of Ashkenazi descent and former professional singer known for her \"fiery spirit\" and for receiving the \"Golden Idol for Proudest Family Moment Award\" from Ryan Seacrest during her son's \"American Idol\" competition. His family relocated to Richmond, Virginia when Yamin was 11, and his parents divorced when he was 14, his father returning to Los Angeles. Yamin went to school in Richmond at Tuckahoe Middle School, and later, Douglas S. Freeman High School. Dropping out of high school in his sophomore year, he later achieved a high school GED while working at Foot Locker (in their management program), a pharmacy, and as an on-air disc jockey for local R&B radio station WCDX/Power 92 FM, using the name E-Dub before auditioning for \"American Idol\".\nYamin has an older half-sister on his mother's side, Jodi Queen, a married mother of two children (Yamin's niece Sophia and nephew Jed) and a younger brother, Scott Yamin, in pharmacy school at Campbell University in Buies Creek, North Carolina.\n\nA history of ear infections as a child and eardrum replacement surgery at 13 left Yamin with 90% hearing loss in his right ear. He was diagnosed with Type I diabetes at the age of 16 and wears an insulin pump to help him manage his diabetes. Yamin is 5'6\" tall.\n\nYamin first discovered his vocal talent while singing karaoke in his late teens. Although he had not been musically trained, he sang in a local jazz band and in amateur performance forums emulating Stevie Wonder, Whitney Houston, and Donny Hathaway.\n\nYamin was in Viña Del Mar, Chile, during the 8.8 magnitude 2010 Chile earthquake on February 27, 2010.\n\nYamin auditioned in Boston, Massachusetts, singing Leon Russell's \"A Song for You\", but his audition was not aired (it was later aired on October 24, 2009, as part of the \"American Idol Rewind\" - season 5 show). He performed the song again in front of the judges during Hollywood rounds, as well as Rascal Flatts's \"Bless the Broken Road\". During the group auditions, Yamin and his group performed \"It's In Her Kiss\" (aka \"The Shoop Shoop Song\") from Betty Everett; Simon Cowell disliked the group performance, but Randy Jackson said Yamin was the best one in his group, and Paula Abdul said it was a good thing she could look past two left feet, in a way of saying he did not dance well but he could definitely sing. He was sent through by the judges and made it through to the finals of the competition.\n\nDuring one weekly rehearsal, guest coach Stevie Wonder told Yamin that he should definitely pursue a career in music. Simon Cowell stated that he thought Yamin was \"potentially the best male vocalist\" in five seasons on \"American Idol\" and later, after Yamin's \"A Song for You\" performance, he declared that it was a \"vocal masterclass\". His performance of \"A Song for You\" ranked third on \"Entertainment Weekly\"'s countdown of the 16 best American Idol performances in the series history.\n\nOn the May 10, 2006, results show Yamin, Taylor Hicks, and Katharine McPhee were announced as the top three finalists. All three returned to their respective hometowns for a day of festivities in their honor. Yamin's homecoming visit included radio and television interviews; performing \"Home\" for more than 4,000 fans, capped by Mayor Douglas Wilder presenting the key to the city; and meeting Governor Tim Kaine, whom Yamin greeted with a hug. Yamin threw out the first pitch before a sold-out crowd at The Diamond for a Richmond Braves game and sang a verse a cappella of \"A Song for You\". Video highlights were shown on the top three results show.\n\nYamin was eliminated from \"American Idol\" on May 17, 2006, after the tightest race; each of the three top contestants received an almost exactly equal percentage of the viewer votes necessary for advancement to the remaining two spots.\n\n\nSemi-finals:\nFinals:\nFinale:\nYamin performed a duet with Mary J. Blige and participated in the Top 12 Burt Bacharach's medley and the \"guys' medley\". \n\nYamin appeared on several talk shows, including \"The Tonight Show\", \"Live with Regis and Kelly\" and the Fox News Channel program, \"Dayside.\" On June 11, 2006, he performed the national anthem \"a cappella\" at Game 2 of the NBA finals.\n\nHe also appeared in the annual Pop Tart-sponsored national American Idols LIVE! Tour between July and September 2006. The tour included a sold-out show at the Richmond Coliseum in Yamin's hometown.\n\nOn October 8, 2006, Yamin performed at the Virginia State Fair as the closing act. He was the first contestant from Season 5 to have his own solo concert. His backup band was the Little Memphis Blues Orchestra. There was no new material featured in the concert; instead, he sang nine cover songs.\n\nSpecial Performances\nOn December 8, 2006, Yamin sang the national anthem, Marvin Gaye's \"What's Going On?\" and his newly released single, \"This Christmas\", as part of the 2006 Genworth Children's Advantage Classic (sponsored by the Genworth Foundation) at the Alltel Pavilion at the Virginia Commonwealth University's Stuart C. Siegel Center in Richmond. Proceeds from the tennis event, which featured James Blake, Andre Agassi, Lindsay Davenport, and Steffi Graf, benefited local programs for disadvantaged youth.\n\nIn 2005, Yamin was featured on three tracks (\"Sound Doctrine\", \"Song of Hope\", and \"Whatchacomeherefoe?\") of Richmond, Virginia gospel musical artist Big Planz's album \"Sound Doctrine\". Four renditions of another song he recorded with Big Planz, \"The Storm\", were released on iTunes.\n\nIn December 2006, Yamin announced a music publishing contract with Sony/ATV Music Publishing. On January 25, 2007, Yamin signed a record deal with Hickory Records, a Sony/ATV-owned imprint set up as a \"virtual label,\" and RED Distribution, a leading distributor for independent record labels in the United States. Yamin has stated that \"Sony invested in [him] as a partner\" as part of a 50/50 deal, which means that \"[they] both stand or fall.\"\n\nAs a teaser, Yamin released the song \"Movin' On\" from his self-titled debut album on AOL's First Listen and iTunes in February 2007. His first radio single, \"Wait For You\", was released on March 13, 2007.\n\n\"Elliott Yamin\" was released on March 20, 2007, debuting at number three on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart with sales of 90,000 copies in its first week. The album was the highest new artist debut on an independent label in SoundScan history. The album was certified gold status by the RIAA on October 12, 2007.\n\nTo promote his album, Yamin made TV appearances on \"Live with Regis and Kelly\", \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", \"Rachael Ray\", \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\", and \"TRL\", where the video for the song \"Wait For You\" was premiered on March 20, 2007. He also signed CDs at the New York Times Square Virgin Megastore across from the TRL studio and at Circuit City in his hometown, Richmond, Virginia, where the line went around the building.\n\nDuring April and May 2007, Yamin embarked on a radio tour which included interviews and acoustic in-studio performances, accompanied by guitarist Russel Ali.\nMark Gorlick (VP Artist Development & Marketing, Sony/BMG RED) emphasized the importance of this type of promotion: \"We put together a five-week promo tour across the country, and just worked it...When programmers saw that the Elliott in person was consistent with the Elliott they saw on television that was huge.\"\n\nOn May 16, 2007, Yamin performed his hit single, \"Wait for You\", on the American Idol Season 6 Top 3 results show. The song jumped 60 spots on iTunes in a few hours as well as from 80 to 31 on the Billboard Hot 100. Following the performance, sales of his self-titled album increased, jumping 47 spots on the Billboard 200, from 67 to 20.\n\nYamin toured North America during May and June 2007, with pop/R&B singer Josh Hoge opening for him. The tour continued in October and November 2007, again with Hoge opening and adding the rock band The Last Goodnight. Fellow American Idol 5 alumnus José \"Sway\" Penala was added to Yamin's band to provide backing vocals.\n\nYamin performed in Washington, DC, at the country's biggest Independence Day celebration, \"A Capitol Fourth\", televised live on PBS on July 4, 2007, singing \"In Love With You Forever\" and \"America the Beautiful\". During August 2007, Yamin visited several local television morning shows for interviews and acoustic performances. He also appeared as himself on the television soap opera The Bold and the Beautiful (aired August 24) and the television drama Lincoln Heights (aired September 20), performing \"Wait for You\".\n\nYamin visited the Philippines in September 2007 for a free mall concert tour of the Ayala Malls to promote his self-titled album. During his press conference at the Glorietta Activity Center, Yamin expressed his excitement at being a part of the \"warm and friendly...Filipino culture\" and his desire to return with his full band for a concert tour. Following his TriNoma show on September 21, members of his fan group Yaminoys presented him with a \"mini-me\" Elliott doll. During the last concert held at the Alabang Town Center, Yamin accidentally stepped on the cord of his microphone while performing \"Wait for You\", inadvertently unplugging his microphone from the cord. A video of this can be seen on YouTube.\n\nOn December 1, 2007, Yamin performed at the Live & Loud 07 Music Festival in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, where he was the opening act for one of his personal idols, Whitney Houston. However he did not meet Houston.\n\n\"Elliott Yamin\" placed on four year-end Billboard charts for 2007, ranking at number 3 on the Independent Albums chart and at number 114 on The Billboard 200 chart, as well as ranking at number 39 on the Independent Albums Decade End Chart (2009). \"Wait for You\" placed on six year-end Billboard charts for 2007, ranking at number 11 on the Pop 100 Airplay chart and at number 41 on the Billboard Hot 100 Songs chart. \"Wait for You\" was honored as one of the most performed songs in the ASCAP repertory during 2007; Yamin performed it at the 25th Annual ASCAP Pop Music Awards on April 9, 2008, at the Kodak Theatre in Los Angeles. The song was certified Platinum in digital sales on October 16, 2008.\n\nYamin traveled to the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany to\nentertain service members as part of a USO/Armed Forces Entertainment tour from February 12 to February 21, 2008.\n\nOn March 2, 2008, accompanied by Fantasia and a film crew, Yamin went on a four-day trip to Angola as a guest of Idol Gives Back sponsor ExxonMobil for the \"Idol Gives Back\" special. Footage of the pair distributing mosquito nets to villagers as part of the Malaria No More program was shown on the \"American Idol\" Season 7 Top 11 results show (March 19, 2008). Fantasia sang \"Amazing Grace\" and, following the local custom of naming a newborn after a visitor, a baby boy was named \"Elliott\", which reduced Yamin to tears. Yamin attended but did not perform on the \"Idol Gives Back\" show, broadcast on April 9, 2008.\n\nOn April 16, 2008, Yamin performed on the \"American Idol\" Season 7 Top 7 results show — dedicating the song \"Free\" to his late mother, Claudette Yamin (See \"Personal Life\").\n\nA Japan edition of Yamin's debut album was released on May 21, 2008, by Avex Trax. Retitled \"Wait for You\", the album included bonus tracks \"Believe\" and \"In Love With You Forever\", the latter song featured in a Toyota Vitz commercial airing in Japan. Yamin made several trips to Japan during 2008 for media interviews and appearances to promote the album and performed 10 shows at Billboard Live venues in Tokyo, Osaka, and Fukuoka in August. The album was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ) in September 2008. A Premium Edition was released on October 8, 2008, containing additional bonus tracks: \"A Whiter Shade of Pale\" and \"I'll Make You Dance\", plus Yamin's cover version of \"Home\", originally from Japanese singer Yusaku Kiyama, who recorded a Japanese version of the song \"Wait for You\" in return. Kiyama and Yamin performed together during Yamin's October visit to promote the release of the \"Wait for You\" Premium Edition. Yamin was named one of the Best 3 New Artists (International) by the 23rd Annual Japan Gold Disc Awards along with Leona Lewis and Flo Rida. A standard edition and a special edition of \"Wait for You\" with different bonus tracks were also released in Taiwan in July and September 2008, respectively.\n\n\"Fight for Love\", the title track and lead single from Yamin's second album, premiered on AOL Music on February 13, 2009. The song, co-written and co-produced by Johntá Austin, became available at iTunes and other digital outlets on March 10, 2009; and was officially released for Top 40 and Rhythm radio airplay the same day.\n\n\"Fight for Love\" was released on May 5, 2009. Yamin recorded 35 songs from which to choose the final track list and worked with various producers, including Jermaine Dupri, Eman, Harvey Mason, Jr., Steve Russell and Stargate.<ref name=\"USAToday_01/19/09\">Elliott Yamin has lots to choose from for new album - USA Today - 1/19/2009</ref> Yamin has described the album as more contemporary R&B pop than his debut with three or four more \"radio-friendly\" singles. Yamin co-wrote the majority of songs for the album, including “Someday”, a song about his feelings of loss following the death of his mother. His collaboration with Jermaine Dupri, \"When I'm Gone\", became a bonus track on the Japanese edition, which was released on May 20, 2009. A Premium Edition of the album was released in Japan on October 21, 2009.\n\nDuring March through early June 2009, Yamin promoted the new album with acoustic performances on air at radio stations and at radio-sponsored concerts, as well as a few club shows with his full band. Promotion in June 2009 included a 3-week visit to Japan with 14 shows at Billboard Live venues and other appearances.\n\nThe second single, \"Can't Keep on Loving You (From a Distance)\", was released to Adult Contemporary radio on August 10, 2009.\n\nYamin and his band began their second USO/Armed Forces Entertainment tour on October 7, 2009, performing four concerts for troops and their families over 10 days in Guam and Japan.\n\nOn January 2, 2010, Yamin kicked off a month-long \"Fight for Love\" tour, which he described as “acoustic with a cool twist”, in Alexandria, Virginia. The tour schedule included dates in the Northeastern and Southeastern United States, as well as Arizona and California, although the California dates were subsequently cancelled.\n\nIn February 2010, Yamin returned to Angola as a representative of \"Idol Gives Back\", this time accompanied by Kara DioGuardi. During his performance at the 1st Annual Washington Ideas Forum on October 2, 2009, Yamin had announced a $100,000 grant to the Saint Isabel Orphanage and School in Luanda, Angola, from ExxonMobil as part of their malaria prevention program. The grant was made to enable the school, which Yamin had visited in 2008 with Fantasia, to improve and expand their facility. Video of Yamin and DioGuardi visiting the ongoing construction of the school dormitory, as well as distributing bed nets, was shown on the \"American Idol\" Season 9 Top 9 (second week) results show (April 14, 2010). Sister Domingas Loureira, director of the orphanage, flew to Los Angeles as a guest of American Idol and ExxonMobil and sat next to Yamin at Idol Gives Back performance on April 21, 2010. Later that week, Yamin performed the National Anthem in honor of World Malaria Day at Washington Nationals and Chicago White Sox baseball games.\n\nFrom February 22 to February 27, 2010, Yamin represented the U.S. in the international competition of the LI Festival Internacional de la Canción de Viña del Mar (LI International Song Festival of Viña del Mar), in Chile, against interpreters from Argentina, Chile, Cuba, France, Italy, Mexico, Peru, Spain and U.K. The competition's theme was \"Songs with History\", and Yamin performed \"Rock Around the Clock\". On February 25, he was announced as one of the five semifinalists in the Festival, along with the representative artists of Argentina, Cuba, Italy and Chile. On February 26 the three finalists were announced: Argentina, Cuba and Italy; Chile and the USA were eliminated from the competition that night.\n\nDuring the early morning hours of February 27, as the festival entered its final day, Chile experienced a magnitude 8.8 earthquake. Yamin was uninjured — relaying his experience via multiple Twitter messages and phone interviews with American media the morning of the 27th.\n\nOn March 7, 2010, Yamin performed at the 11th Annual Children Uniting Nations Oscar Celebration, held at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills, California.\n\nIn June 2010, Yamin was invited by United Airlines to fly on its inaugural flight from Washington, DC, to Accra, Ghana. While in Ghana, he helped the non-profit organization Malaria No More deliver mosquito nets donated by ExxonMobil to a children's hospital in Accra.\n\nOn February 2, 2011, Yamin released, exclusively for the Japanese market, his third studio album, \"Gather 'Round\", which contains 12 tracks. The album's first single was \"3 Words\".\n\nA May, 2011 interview with American Idol blogger Rodney Ho of the Atlantic Journal Constitution indicated Yamin was no longer with Hickory Records and had not signed with another US label.\n\nIn January 2012, it was announced that his third studio album, \"Gather 'Round\", would be released in the United States under the title \"Let's Get To What's Real\" on April 10, 2012 on the E1/Purpose Music Group label. The album contains all but three of the tracks from the Japanese version, and includes two new songs: \"Enough Love\" and \"Up, Down, All Around\". The lead single is the song \"3 Words\" which was also released as the first Japanese single.\n\nOn November 5, 2015, Yamin released, again exclusively for the Japanese market, his fourth studio album, \"As Time Goes By\", which contains 12 tracks.\n\nA video for the single \"Katy\" was released in Japan on late October, 2015. Yamin travelled to Japan to promote the album in early November.\n\nOn October 14, 2007, Yamin released \"Sounds Of The Season: The Elliott Yamin Holiday Collection\", a Christmas album with 8 tracks, including two originals recorded specifically for the album. Distributed exclusively through Target stores during the 2007 holiday season, it sold 81,000 copies.\n\nOn October 7, 2008, Yamin released another holiday album titled \"My Kind of Holiday\". It includes the 8 tracks from \"\", plus 2 new tracks: \"Back Door Santa\" and \"Christmas Without Carol\", which he co-wrote.\nThe Japan Exclusive Edition of the album was released on December 10, 2008, and includes three bonus tracks: \"Sharing the Night Together\", an acoustic version of \"Home\", and \"Wait for You (The Standard Club Piano Dance Remix)\".\n\nOn March 11, 2008, producer Randy Jackson released his first studio album, in which Yamin features in a duet with American Idol co-contestant Katharine McPhee. The song, \"Real Love\", is a cover of a Lee Ryan song, using the male/female structure of the Trinity Stone featuring Ne-Yo cover. The song was released as a single for radio airplay on April 22, 2008.\n\nYamin covered Elton John's Academy Award-winning song in 1994, \"Can You Feel the Love Tonight\" from Disney's \"The Lion King\", for the compilation album \"DisneyMania 6\", released on May 20, 2008.\n\nOn October 27, 2008, Yamin performed in a concert as part of the celebration of the 10th anniversary of the Peres Center for Peace in Israel. The concert was titled \"Believe: Celebrating a Decade of Peacebuilding Activities\" and took place at the Tel Aviv Performing Arts Center. Yamin performed \"Can You Feel the Love Tonight\", and then closed the concert in a duet with singer Liel Kolet, performing \"I Wish That...\", a song written by Diane Warren. Other artists that were scheduled to perform include Andrea Bocelli, Slash and Dave Koz.\n\nYamin collaborated with fellow \"American Idol\" Taylor Hicks on Hicks' second album, \"The Distance\", released on March 10, 2009. They recorded a duet of a cover of Bobby Womack's \"Woman's Gotta Have It\".\n\nYamin collaborated with Bangladeshi American DJ Sanjoy in the fast-paced pop EDM \"OBVI,\" released on January 13, 2017. Yamin was selected as the singer after \"OBVI\" brought Sanjoy back memories of his first kiss in high school to Yamin's song \"Wait for You.\"\n\nYamin collaborated with jazz musician Phil Lassiter (leader of the funk group Philthy) in his second album \"Party Crashers\", released digitally on iTunes on July 6, 2018. The album contains 11 tracks featuring -besides Yamin- former member of Prince & The New Power Generation, Philip Lassiter, members of Snarky Puppy, Bobby Sparks, Mark Lettieri & Jason Thomas, and Mono Neon.\n\nSpecial Performances\n\nOn April 21st, 2018 Yamin performed the National Anthem for the Toyota Owners 400 Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series race at Richmond Raceway in Richmond, VA.\n\nAs a diabetic, Yamin supports and works as a spokesman for various organizations, including the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF). In October 2006, Yamin sang the national anthem at the Dodger Stadium (LA) and cut the ribbon during the JDRF International Walk to Cure Diabetes. In addition, a portion of the proceeds from his Virginia State Fair concert benefitted the JDRF. The Central Virginia Chapter of the JDRF honored Yamin for his commitment to diabetes awareness and research at its 8th Annual Spring Gala on March 1, 2008; more than $400,000 was raised at the event. He returned for the 9th Annual Spring Gala on April 4, 2009.\n\nIn August 2007, Yamin visited Capitol Hill as International Celebrity Advocate Co-chair of the Promise to Remember Me Campaign to petition Representatives for their support to extend the Special Diabetes Program, which provides federal funding for type 1 diabetes research.\n\nIn October 2007, Yamin was named Global Ambassador to promote the Inspired by Diabetes Creative Expression Competition, a global contest in which people with diabetes, as well as their friends and families, can share through art, music, or essay how the disease has impacted their lives.\n\nDuring his fall 2007 concert tour, Yamin announced that 100% of proceeds from the sale of designated T-shirts and pins would benefit the Life for a Child Program, which provides insulin, as well as diabetes-related care and supplies, for children in developing countries.\n\nOn World Diabetes Day, November 14, 2007, Yamin was joined by children with diabetes for a performance of the song \"Promise to Remember Me\" in the United Nation's Rose Garden. \nFollowing the World Diabetes Day ceremonies, Yamin taped a segment of the \"Montel Williams Show\" during which he shared his experiences learning to live with the disease and performed \"Wait for You.\" The 30-minute segment was aired on November 29, 2007.\n\nDuring October 2009, Yamin was a guest speaker at the World Diabetes Congress in Montreal, Canada, speaking at an open forum on \"Living with diabetes and its complications: perspective of someone with diabetes\".\n\nOn November 3, 2010, Yamin appeared on Don't Forget the Lyrics, contesting for two charities: JDRF and Malaria No More. He won $5,000 for them.\n\nOn November 5, 2010, Yamin was a guest performer at the 40th Anniversary of Africare.\n\nDuring October and November 2012, Yamin was an integral part of the Big Blue Test campaign organized by Diabetes Hands Foundation, to raise awareness of the importance of exercise and help people with diabetes in need.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10896", "title": "Felix Bloch", "text": "Felix Bloch\n\nFelix Bloch (23 October 1905 – 10 September 1983) was a Swiss physicist, working mainly in the U.S. He and Edward Mills Purcell were awarded the 1952 Nobel Prize for Physics for \"their development of new ways and methods for nuclear magnetic precision measurements.\" In 1954–1955, he served for one year as the first Director-General of CERN. Felix Bloch made fundamental theoretical contributions to the understanding of electron behavior in crystal lattices, ferromagnetism, and nuclear magnetic resonance.\n\nBloch was born in Zürich, Switzerland to Jewish parents Gustav and Agnes Bloch.\n\nHe was educated at the Cantonal Gymnasium in Zürich and at the Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule (ETHZ), also in Zürich. Initially studying engineering he soon changed to physics. During this time he attended lectures and seminars given by Peter Debye and Hermann Weyl at ETH Zürich and Erwin Schrödinger at the neighboring University of Zürich. A fellow student in these seminars was John von Neumann. Bloch graduated in 1927, and was encouraged by Debye to go to Leipzig to study with Werner Heisenberg. Bloch became Heisenberg's first graduate student, and gained his doctorate in 1928. His doctoral thesis established the quantum theory of solids, using Bloch waves to describe electrons in periodic lattices.\n\nHe remained in European academia, working on superconductivity with Wolfgang Pauli in Zürich; with Hans Kramers and Adriaan Fokker in Holland; with Heisenberg on ferromagnetism, where he developed a description of boundaries between magnetic domains, now known as \"Bloch walls\"; with Niels Bohr in Copenhagen, where he worked on a theoretical description of the stopping of charged particles traveling through matter; and with Enrico Fermi in Rome. In 1932, Bloch returned to Leipzig to assume a position as \"Privatdozent\" (lecturer). In 1933, immediately after Hitler came to power, he left Germany because he was Jewish, returning to Zürich, before traveling to Paris to lecture at the Institut Henri Poincaré.\n\nIn 1934, the chairman of Stanford Physics invited Bloch to join the faculty. Bloch accepted the offer and emigrated to the United States. In the fall of 1938, Bloch began working with the 37 inch cyclotron at the University of California at Berkeley to determine the magnetic moment of the neutron. Bloch went on to become the first professor for theoretical physics at Stanford. In 1939, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States.\n\nIn 1940 he married Lore Misch (1911–1996), a physicist working on X-ray crystallography, whom he had met at an American Physical Society meeting. The couple had four children.\n\nDuring WWII, Bloch briefly worked on the atomic bomb project at Los Alamos. Disliking the military atmosphere of the laboratory and uninterested in the theoretical work there, Bloch left to join the radar project at Harvard University.\n\nAfter the war, he concentrated on investigations into nuclear induction and nuclear magnetic resonance, which are the underlying principles of MRI.\n\nWhen CERN was being set up in the early 1950s, its founders were searching for someone of the stature and international prestige to head the fledgling international laboratory, and in 1954 Professor Bloch became CERN's first Director-General, at the time when construction was getting under way on the present Meyrin site and plans for the first machines were being drawn up. After leaving CERN, he returned to Stanford University, where he in 1961 was made Max Stein Professor of Physics.\n\nAt Stanford, he was the advisor of Carson D. Jeffries, who became a professor of Physics at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nIn 1964, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nFelix Bloch died in Zürich in 1983.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "764634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=764634", "title": "George Poindexter", "text": "George Poindexter\n\nGeorge Poindexter (1779September 5, 1853) was an American politician, lawyer and judge from Mississippi. Born in Virginia, he moved to the Mississippi Territory in 1802. He served as United States Representative from the newly admitted state, was elected as Governor (1820–1822), and served as a United States Senator.\n\nPoindexter was born in Louisa County, Virginia in 1779. He was the son of Thomas Poindexter and Lucy (Jones) Poindexter; the Poindexters were a large Virginia family of French Huguenot and English ancestry. Poindexter received a sporadic education, primarily from studying under the tutelage of two of his brothers. He was orphaned after his father died when Poindexter was 17; Poindexter inherited two slaves and a share of his father's land, and resided with an older brother until he came of age. The Poindexter family of Virginia made frequent use of the names George, Thomas, and John; as a result, their genealogy is difficult to trace. He may have been the uncle of Ohio abolitionist preacher James Preston Poindexter, whose father was Joseph Poindexter, a journalist at the Richmond Enquirer.\n\nThe exact details of Poindexter's legal studies are not known, but according to family tradition, Poindexter studied under practicing attorneys, first in Kentucky, and later in Richmond. He was admitted to the bar in 1800, and began to practice in Milton, an Albemarle County town along the Rivanna River which no longer exists.\n\nAfter moving to the Mississippi Territory in 1802, Poindexter set up his law practice in Natchez. He soon became a friend of Governor William C. C. Claiborne, and a leader in the local Democratic-Republican Party. As a result, in 1803, he was appointed Attorney General of the Territory; he served until 1807, when he took up his duties as a member of the Territorial House of Representatives, to which he had been elected in 1806. (He had been an unsuccessful candidate for the legislature in 1804.)\n\nDuring Mississippi's early years, nearby areas were under Spanish control. When tensions rose over Mississippi's expansion, and the Spanish threatened an attack, residents of Adams County formed a militia; Poindexter was one of the main organizers of a company in Natchez, the Mississippi Blues, and he was elected commander with the rank of captain. No attack from Spain materialized, and the militia soon disbanded.\n\nWhen former U.S. Vice President Aaron Burr appeared in Mississippi while traveling south as part of the Burr conspiracy in 1807, acting Governor Cowles Mead declared martial law, and appointed Poindexter and William B. Shields as aides-de-camp on his military staff, and sent them to interview Burr and determine his intentions. When Burr was arrested, Poindexter conducted the prosecution until Burr's escape from custody. After Burr escaped, Governor Robert Williams returned from vacation at his home in North Carolina to personally take control of the situation; he criticized Mead and fired the militia officers Mead had appointed, including Poindexter.\n\nPoindexter was elected as a delegate to the United States House of Representatives from the Mississippi Territory; he served in the 10th, 11th and 12th Congresses (1807 to 1813). As a delegate, Poindexter concentrated his efforts largely on questions germane to Mississippi, such as federal patronage, as well as advocating for Mississippi's admission to the Union. Poindexter also worked to resolve and standardize land titles in Mississippi, where residents possessed deeds and grants from Spain, France, England, and the United States, due to the number of times the area had changed hands. He also opposed those who claimed the Yazoo lands, but in 1810 the United States Supreme Court's ruling in \"Fletcher v. Peck\", resolved the claims in their favor.\n\nBefore leaving for Washington, DC to begin his duties, Mead informed Poindexter of disparaging comments Williams had made to Mead about Poindexter following Burr's escape. Poindexter responded by challenging Williams to a duel; Williams replied that he would admit to any comment Mead attributed to him, but that he would not \"involve either his public or private character with such a man.\" Poindexter responded by writing letters to the editor that made it appear that he had been wronged by Williams and was unable to obtain satisfaction, which had the effect of making Williams appear cowardly in the eyes of his constituents.\n\nPoindexter was in Richmond in October 1807 to testify at Burr's treason trial; his testimony suggested that Burr's arrest had been based on flimsy evidence, which probably played a part in Burr's acquittal.\n\nIn 1811, Poindexter's outspoken opposition to the Federalist Party resulted in a duel with wealthy merchant and planter Abijah Hunt. Poindexter killed Hunt, but afterwards Poindexter's political opponents alleged that he had broken the code duello by firing at Hunt prematurely.\n\nPoindexter did not run for reelection in 1812; after his final term in Congress ended he was appointed as federal Judge for the Mississippi Territory, and he served from 1813 to 1817. Poindexter also served as a volunteer aide to William Carroll as Carroll commanded a division of Tennessee militia at the War of 1812's decisive 1814 Battle of New Orleans.\n\nPoindexter was chairman of the committee that was appointed to draft a constitution for the new state of Mississippi. After its admission in 1817, he was elected to be the state's first representative in Congress. He served in the 15th Congress from 1817 to 1819, when he chaired the Committee on Public Lands.\n\nAfter that, he was an unsuccessful candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives in 1820 to the 17th Congress and in 1822 to the 18th Congress.\n\nIn 1819 Poindexter was elected the second Governor of Mississippi by a large margin, winning more than 60% of the vote. He served from 1820 to 1822. During his time in office he oversaw a reorganization of the militia, the state created its first free public schools, state courts were reorganized, and Jackson was selected as the site for the state capital.\n\nPoindexter was appointed to the United States Senate in 1830 to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Robert H. Adams, and served from 1830 to 1835. Soon after his appointment, he learned of the financial distress of Martha Jefferson Randolph, whose father Thomas Jefferson, the late president, had left an estate heavily encumbered by debt. Poindexter introduced a bill to grant Randolph 50,000 acres in Virginia, with the idea she could sell the land to raise money to live on. The bill failed to pass the Senate, and was rejected by the two Virginia senators in 1831.\n\nPoindexter served as chairman of the Committee on Private Land Claims in the 22nd Congress from 1831 to 1833, of the Committee on Public Lands in the 23rd Congress from 1833 to 1835 and was President pro tempore of the Senate from June to November 1834.\n\nPoindexter's tenure as chairman of the Committee on Private Land Claims had been considered moderately controversial at the time, as he had espoused some views that could be considered Socialist, regarding government repossession of land. Poindexter was thought to have made these claims to support President Andrew Jackson's fight with the Second Bank of the United States. He was a supporter of President Jackson, and had defended him against calls for censure stemming from the Arbuthnot and Ambrister incident, but had slowly become less happy with the President's policies.\n\nIn 1834 Poindexter had his home in Washington, D.C. painted by Richard Lawrence. A deranged man, Lawrence came to believe that he was the ruler of England and the United States, and that Jackson was a usurper. In January 1835 Lawrence made two attempts to shoot at Jackson using two separate pistols, both of which misfired. The assassination attempt occurred as President Andrew Jackson was attending a memorial service for a Congressman at the House of Representatives. It was the first attempt to assassinate a President. Jackson accused various political enemies as being behind Lawrence. Among them was Poindexter, who denied any connection except for having his house painted. Poindexter also took issue with Vice President Martin Van Buren's support of Jackson during the debate over the Bank, and made explicit threats that caused Van Buren to carry pistols for self-defense when presiding over the Senate. The accusations about Lawrence followed Poindexter back to Mississippi, and he was unsuccessful in running for a second term.\n\nHe became embittered by these political problems in Mississippi due to his opposition to Jackson.\n\nIn 1835, Poindexter moved to Kentucky, where he continued practicing law in Lexington. He later moved back to Jackson, Mississippi and continued his law practice until his death there on September 5, 1853. He was interred in Greenwood Cemetery in Jackson.\n\nIn 1804 Poindexter married Lydia Carter (1789–1824), the daughter of a prominent Natchez businessman and plantation owner. They had two sons, George Littleton (or Lytleton) and Albert Gallatin. They divorced after Poindexter publicly accused his wife of infidelity and claimed that their second child, whom he disavowed, was the product of an extramarital affair between his wife and their neighbor. In 1820 Lydia Carter Poindexter married Reverend Lewis Williams and moved to Brimfield, Massachusetts. Her sons remained with her; Poindexter provided for the support of George, but disavowed Albert and refused to provide for him.\n\nIn 1816 Poindexter married Agatha Ball Chinn (1794–1822). They had one son who died of yellow fever as a child while Poindexter was Governor, and Agatha Poindexter died soon afterwards.\n\nHe was said to have a serious liaison with a slave woman.\n\nWhen several years before, Representative Richard Mentor Johnson of Kentucky was criticized for his common-law marriage with his slave Julia Chinn, he said, \"Unlike Jefferson, Clay, Poindexter and others, I married my wife under the eyes of God, and apparently He has found no objections.\"\n\nHistorian Burke has written,\nDuring slavery times, there was no particular stigma attached to the fact that many southern plantation owners, along with their white overseers, often fathered mulatto children born of black slave women. As long as the white father denied the facts, the customs that created miscegenation were usually overlooked by Southern society.\n\nJohnson violated the norms by acknowledging Chinn as his wife and their daughters as his, plus trying to introduce his daughters to \"polite society\".\n\n"}
{"id": "55827208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55827208", "title": "Gregor Belkovsky", "text": "Gregor Belkovsky\n\nZvi Hirsch Gregor Belkovsky (RU: Григорий Александрович Белковский) (1865 Odessa Russian Empire - 1948 Tel Aviv) was a jurist, political economist, one of the leaders of the Bulgarian Zionists and an organizer for the first Zionist Congress.\n\nBelkovsky was born in 1865 in Odessa, in the Kherson Governorate of the Russian Empire (present-day Ukraine) to Saul Sender who was a poor laborer. He studied in Jewish elementary school and was a gifted student. He later studied Law at University of Odessa and specialized in Roman and Criminal law. During his student years he was active in Jewish National movement in Odessa. Belkovsky won a medal for his work and after graduation he was offered a professorship which he rejected because it was conditional on conversion to Christianity. He did not receive a license to practice Law because he remained Jewish.\n\nIn 1892 while he was in Germany, Belkovsky met one of his former professors from University of Odessa which accompanied him to meet Bulgarian minister of Education Georgi Zhivkov. Zhivkov offered Belkovsky a professorship in University of Sofia and Bulgarian government headed by Stefan Stambolov approved this position immediately. This was unprecedented because Belkovsky was both foreign and Jewish. Upon his arrival in Sofia, he started learning Bulgarian language. Belkovsky published several articles on Roman law in Bulgarian and at the same time he was promoting Zionism in Bulgarian. Belkovsky was the leader of the Zionist movement in Bulgaria and met with Joseph Marco Baruch several times.\n\nBelkovsky was very close to Ferdinand I of Bulgaria. In 1896 central Zionist Committee was established in Sofia and Belkovsky became its leader. On June 17, 1896 Theodore Herzl arrived in Bulgaria and met with Belkovsky.\n\nFrom 1891 even prior to establishment of World Zionist Organization Belkovsky was in contact with prominent Zionists. In September 1893 prominent European Zionists created a preliminary conference in Vienna which Belkovsky attended.\n\nHe was one of the extreme opponents of the Uganda plan and rejected any settlement of Jews outside Eretz Israel. After the October Revolution Belkovsky continued Zionist activities and was appointed chairman of Central Zionist Committee in Russia.\n\nIn 1924 Belkovsky was arrested in the Soviet Union and was sentenced to exile in Siberia. However his sentence was reduced to deportation and he was deported to Mandatory Palestine. In Palestine he continued to practice Law.\n\nBelkovsky died in Tel Aviv, in Mandatory Palestine on 11 January 1948 and was buried in a large funeral. He had one daughter.\n"}
{"id": "2706960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2706960", "title": "Henri de Talleyrand-Périgord, comte de Chalais", "text": "Henri de Talleyrand-Périgord, comte de Chalais\n\nHenri de Talleyrand-Périgord, comte de Chalais (1599–1626) was a favorite of Louis XIII of France.\n\nHe was born in 1599 as son to Daniel de Talleyrand-Périgord, Prince de Chalais and Françoise de Montluc, daughter of Maréchal de Montluc. He started to serve in the military early in his life. He was at the Siege of Montauban in 1621. He became Head of the King's Wardrobe to King Louis XIII.\n\nHe married Charlotte de Castille and fought and killed her lover in a duel.\n\nHe was accused of conspiracy against Richelieu, arrested at Nantes, and beheaded by an unskilled axeman who took over 30 blows to sever the head.\n\n"}
{"id": "13558797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13558797", "title": "Kamakahukilani", "text": "Kamakahukilani\n\nKamakahukilani Von Oelhoffen (1935–1999) was a Native Hawaiian educator, poet, and activist known for her repeated assertion of the rights of indigenous cultural practice. \"Walking, Talking Education\" was Kamaka's motto, along with other distinctive phrases, such as \"Long Live Life.\"\n\nKamakahukilani was a contemporary of and close friend to Kawaipuna Prejean. Both were students of the legendary Pilahi Paki. Kamaka, Kawaipuna, and their friend (songwriter) Liko Martin travelled extensively throughout the continental U.S. and beyond, sharing music and culture with other activists and indigenous peoples worldwide.\n\nBorn Elizabeth Kamakahukilani Von Oelhoffen, she grew up in the housing projects of Palolo Valley. Her childhood friends included singer Kui Lee. Her mother was an activist, though she had to do this in hiding. During the \"Red Scare\", her family hid haole socialists in their small home. Kamaka's schoolteacher, Gottfried Seitz, whom she described as an important mentor to the children of Palolo, was among those persecuted; his persecution was what inspired her to become an activist herself.\n\nHer genealogy came from an ancient navigational line; hence the name \"Kamakahukilani\" (eyes that pull the heavens\". Throughout her life, Kamaka was fascinated by archaeo-astronomy, star lore, navigation, geometry and indigenous physics. She also studied Arabian astronomy, ancient architecture, and the works of historical figures such as Pythagoras. She was known for instructing her students at night with the use of her \"kako'o\", or walking-stick, to visually demonstrate the alignment of constellations, stars, and planets.\n\nKamakahukilani was featured in a 1983 National Geographic article on activism, which highlighted her struggles on the island of Hawai'i. She was a strong figure in the struggles for Halawa Valley and Mauna Kea, among others.\n\nAt one time Kamakahukilani served as Sergeant-at-arms for Ka Lahui Hawai'i. However, she was always known for her \"free agency\" in working with all parts of the Hawaiian Sovereignty Movement.\n\nKamaka was at one time married to a former prisoner who died soon after they married. He gave her a copy of the book \"The Prophet\" by Khalil Gibran, which inspired her own writing. Because of her marriage, Kamaka's legal last name was Palakiko at the time of her death.\n\nKamakahukilani died of cancer at the age of 64.\n"}
{"id": "5291073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5291073", "title": "Levi Bellfield", "text": "Levi Bellfield\n\nYusuf Rahim (born Levi Rabetts; 17 May 1968), formerly known as Levi Bellfield, is an English serial killer. He was convicted on 25 February 2008 of the murders of Marsha McDonnell and Amélie Delagrange and the attempted murder of Kate Sheedy, and sentenced to life imprisonment. \n\nOn 23 June 2011, Bellfield was found guilty of the murder of Milly Dowler. On both occasions, the judge recommended that he should never be released. He converted to Islam in prison.\n\nBellfield was born at the West Middlesex Hospital, Isleworth, Greater London, to Jean and Joseph Rabetts (née Bellfield), and is of Romani descent.\n\nWhen Bellfield was 10 years old his father died, at the age of 52, from leukaemia. He has two brothers and two sisters and was brought up on a southwest London council estate. He attended Forge Lane Junior School then secondary school at Rectory Secondary School, Hampton later moving to Feltham Comprehensive School. He has fathered five children with three women, the three youngest with his most recent girlfriend, Emma Mills. His first conviction was for burglary in 1981.\n\nHe was convicted of assaulting a police officer in 1990. He also has convictions for theft and driving offences. By 2002, he had nine convictions and had spent almost one year in prison for them.\n\nIn an interview with the media, Detective Chief Inspector Colin Sutton of the Metropolitan Police, who led the murder hunt, said of him: \"When we started dealing with him he came across as very jokey, like he's your best mate. But he's a cunning individual, violent. He can switch from being nice to being nasty, instantly.\"\n\nBellfield searched for victims on streets he knew intimately. Detectives tracked down a number of ex-girlfriends, who all described a similar pattern of behaviour when they got involved with him. \"He was lovely at first, charming, then completely controlling and evil. They all said the same,\" said Detective Sergeant Jo Brunt.\n\nAt the time of the attacks, Bellfield ran a wheel-clamping business which operated in and around West Drayton in west London where he lived. Detective Chief Inspector Sutton speculated: \"[Bellfield] has a massive ego to feed, he thinks he's God's gift to everyone. He drives around in his car, feels a bit 'whatever' and sees some young blonde girl. Young blonde girl says 'go away' and he thinks 'you dare to turn down Levi Bellfield, you're worth nothing' and then she gets a whack over the head. It is shown in the case of Kate Sheedy. She was smart enough to think she didn't like the look of his car and crosses the road. He thinks 'You think you're so clever' and whoosh, he runs her over.\"\n\nBellfield was seen driving around in his van, talking to young girls at bus stops, while under police surveillance. Amélie Delagrange was seen by CCTV cameras which showed her walking towards Twickenham Green after she missed her stop on the bus home. She may have stopped and spoken to Bellfield between the last two sightings of her. She was attacked shortly afterwards.\n\nBellfield was arrested early on the morning of 22 November 2004 on suspicion of the murder of Amélie Delagrange. On 25 November, he was charged of three counts of rape in Surrey and West London. On 9 December 2004, he was charged with assaulting a woman in Twickenham between 1995 and 1997 and remanded in custody. Bellfield was rearrested and charged with Amélie Delagrange's murder on 2 March 2006, along with the attempted murder of Kate Sheedy and the attempted murder and causing grievous bodily harm to Irma Dragoshi. On 25 May 2006 Bellfield was charged with the murder of Marsha McDonnell.\n\nAmanda Jane \"Milly\" Dowler was a 13-year-old girl who went missing on leaving the railway station in Walton-on-Thames on 21 March 2002 and was found dead in Yateley Heath Woods, Yateley, six months later. In August 2009, Surrey Police submitted a dossier to the CPS containing evidence of Bellfield's involvement in the murder of Dowler. On 30 March 2010, Bellfield was charged with the kidnap and murder of Milly, as well as the attempted kidnap of then 12-year-old Rachel Cowles on 20 March 2002. Bellfield refused to give evidence at his trial and always denied any involvement in Dowler's death. A jury convicted Bellfield of Dowler's murder on 23 June 2011. \n\nMarsha Louise McDonnell, a 19-year-old woman, died in hospital, two days after being admitted, as a result of being beaten over the head with a blunt instrument near her home in Hampton, London, in February 2003. The wound was inflicted shortly after she got off the 111 bus from Kingston upon Thames at the stop on Percy Road. Bellfield sold his Vauxhall Corsa car for £1,500 six days after the murder, having bought it for £6,000 just five months earlier.\n\nKate Sheedy, then aged 18, was run over as she crossed the road near an entrance to an industrial estate in Isleworth on 28 May 2004. She survived, but suffered multiple injuries and spent several weeks in hospital. Nearly four years later, she gave evidence against Bellfield when he was tried with her attempted murder.\n\nAmélie Delagrange was a 22-year-old French student visiting the UK. She was found at Twickenham Green on the evening of 19 August 2004 with serious head injuries, and died in hospital the same night. Within 24 hours, the police established that she might have been killed by the same person who had killed Marsha McDonnell 18 months earlier. Bellfield reportedly confessed to the murder while on remand.\n\nBellfield was also charged with abduction and false imprisonment of Anna-Maria Rennie (then aged 17) at Whitton on 14 October 2001, after she identified him in a video identity parade four years later. He was also charged with the attempted murder of Irma Dragoshi (then aged 39) at Longford on 16 December 2003. The jury failed to reach verdicts on either of these charges.\n\nBellfield was found guilty of the murders of Marsha McDonnell and Amélie Delagrange (as well as the attempted murder of Kate Sheedy) on 25 February 2008 more than three years after the last of the three attacks. The following day, he was sentenced to life imprisonment with a recommendation that he should never be released. Bellfield was not in court to hear his sentence, as he had refused to attend court owing to \"unfair press coverage\" following his conviction.\n\nOn 30 March 2010, Bellfield was charged with Dowler's abduction and murder, pre-dating the earliest of the other three charges by almost a year. Milly was 13 years old when last seen alive on her way home from school in Walton-on-Thames on 21 March 2002; her body was found in woodland near Yateley, Hampshire, six months later. Bellfield was named as the prime suspect in connection with the murder in the immediate aftermath of his trial in 2008. As a result, the inquest into the death was adjourned. On 6 October 2010 he appeared in court via video link and was formally charged with one count each of attempted abduction, (actual) abduction, disposal of evidence and murder.\n\nBellfield's second trial began at the Old Bailey on 10 May 2011 and on 23 June 2011 the jury found Bellfield guilty. He was again sentenced to life imprisonment the following day and the trial judge recommended that his life sentence should mean life – just as the judge at his trial for the other crimes had done three years earlier. The trial of Bellfield on another charge of attempted abduction of Rachel Cowles, an 11-year-old girl offered a lift in the Walton area by a man in a red car on the day preceding this murder, was abandoned due to newspapers publishing prejudicial material, and the judge ordered that the charge should remain on file.\n\nOn 27 January 2016, Surrey Police announced that Bellfield had admitted, for the first time, abducting, raping and murdering Dowler, after being interviewed about whether he had an accomplice. Levi Bellfield later issued a denial that he made any such confession, but Surrey Police stood by their earlier statement.\n\nAfter his February 2008 convictions, Bellfield was named by police as a suspect in connection with numerous unsolved murders and attacks on women dating back to 1990 – as well as the murder of his childhood girlfriend, 14-year-old Patsy Morris in 1980.\n\nPolice were informed in early 2015 that Bellfield, in his cell at HM Prison Wakefield, had admitted to unsolved rape and murder cases. The Metropolitan Police co-ordinated the subsequent investigations of 10 police forces. On 9 November 2016, they issued a statement which said: \"All lines of inquiry have now been exhausted and the decision has been taken to close this investigation as there is no evidence to link the individual to any case for which he has not already been convicted\". It was later revealed by police that Bellfield may have lied about other murders so he could inflict pain on their families.\n\nMichael Stone, convicted for the 1996 murders of Lin Russell and her daughter Megan, has argued that Bellfield should be investigated for the killings. A 2017 BBC Two programme, \"The Chillenden Murders\", in which a team of independent experts re-examined the evidence, supported this view. On 29 November 2017, BBC Cymru Wales reported that Bellfield had allegedly confessed to the murders to a fellow prisoner, giving details that \"would only be known by the killer\". Bellfield denied the confession. In December 2017, \"The Sunday Times\" reported that his ex-wife had told the 2008 Metropolitan Police investigation into the Delagrange case that he was with her on the day for her 25th birthday, and had spent all day in Twickenham and Windsor, 100 miles away from the scene of the murders which occurred at around 4.30pm. It was an alibi which detectives found credible.\n"}
{"id": "763755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763755", "title": "Lim Kit Siang", "text": "Lim Kit Siang\n\nLim Kit Siang (; born 20 February 1941) is a Malaysian politician and party leader. He is a prominent leader of the Democratic Action Party (DAP), a component party of the current ruling Pakatan Harapan (PH) coalition in Malaysia. He had previously served as the Opposition Leader of Malaysia for 1 year (1973-1974), another 24 years (1975-1999) before assuming the role again for a four-year stint from 2004-2008.\n\nLim was educated from Lincoln's Inn in 1977. He is married with four children. Since 1978, he has authored 34 books. His son Lim Guan Eng is the current Finance Minister of Malaysia and a former Chief Minister of Penang.\n\nLim Kit Siang together with his son Lim Guan Eng first visited his ancestral home in China in Nov 2008 (reported in Chinapress). His ancestral village is located in Zhangzhou, Fujian province which makes him a Minnan native. He met his brother-in-law during the visit.\n\nHis birthplace was questioned by Pertubuhan Minda Sosial Prihatin (PMSP) president Ramesh Rao, who noticed Lim's Wikipedia page stated that he arrived in Malaya in 1957. Lim was infuriated when asked by the press, where he told the reporters to do their own research before asking him such question, adding that he felt sorry for the journalist.\n\nLim first emerged as a politician when he was National Organising Secretary of the DAP from 1966 to 1969. At the same time he was also entrusted to edit the party's newspaper, the \"Rocket\". The course of the political landscape changed when he was promoted to Secretary-General in 1969 after being acting Secretary-General for a short period during a turbulent period in the country's history. He considers himself a democratic socialist and is also a supporter of social democracy.\n\nLim was first elected as an MP for the Bandar Melaka seat in 1969. His election was initially held to be void, however, because the law prohibited an election agent who had previously failed to discharge his duties from standing for election in the future. The Prime Minister of Malaysia, Tun Abdul Razak, moved a motion in Parliament to prevent Lim from serving as an MP, granting him instead a period of time to request a royal pardon from the Yang di-Pertuan Agong (King). After receiving the royal pardon, Lim was allowed to retain his seat.\n\nApart from 1999 to 2004, during which time he lost his seat due to the Chinese disenchantment with DAP entering into a political pact with the Islamist PAS for the general elections, Lim represented various constituencies in five states:\n\nHe also served as a state assemblyman in Melaka and Penang during the following periods: Kubu, Melaka (1974–1982); Kampong Kolam, Penang (1986–1990); and Padang Kota, Penang (1990–1995).\n\nIn addition, Lim Kit Siang has also served as the Opposition Leader of Malaysia three times over a span of 29 years. He was first elected Opposition Leader for an 18-month stint from January 1973 to July 1974. Next, he assumed the position in November 1975 for the next 24 years before he lost his parliamentary seat in the 1999 general elections. He served in the post once more for a four-year stint following the 2004 general elections until 2008.\n\nHe led the party in the capacity of Secretary-General until 1999 when he was elected party chairman, succeeding Chen Man Hin. In 2004, he refused re-appointment as the chairman and Karpal Singh was elected to replace him. Lim was then elected to an advisory role as the leader of a newly created body called the \"Policy and Strategic Planning Commission\". His son, Lim Guan Eng, is currently the Secretary-General of the party and was the Finance Minister of Malaysia.\n\nAfter winning a parliamentary seat from Ipoh Timor during the 2004 general election, which also saw his party clinching the most seats of any opposition party, Lim became the Parliamentary Opposition Leader. In recent years the opposition have been campaigning for freer and fairer elections within Malaysia. On 10 November 2007, a mass rally, called the BERSIH Peaceful People's Gathering, took place in the Dataran Merdeka Kuala Lumpur at 3pm to demand for clean and fair elections. The gathering was organised by BERSIH, a coalition comprising political parties and civil society groups, and drew supporters from all over the country.\n\nIn the March 2008 general election, he was re-elected as the Member of Parliament for Ipoh Timor with a majority of 21,942 votes.\n\nLim contested and won in Gelang Patah against Barisan Nasional's heavyweight and former Menteri Besar of Johor Datuk Abdul Ghani in the 2013 general election. He called this election the \"dirtiest ever GE in Malaysian history\" and has called for a \"clean\" election.\n\nIn 1969 Kit Siang was detained under the Internal Security Act for 18 months. Ten years later, in 1979, he was convicted of five charges under Official Secrets Act for exposing an inappropriate arms deal between the government and a Swiss company.\n\nLim was one of the people arrested during \"Operation Lalang\" in 1987. He spent 17 months in prison under the Internal Security Act, which allows for two years of detention without trial at the pleasure of the Home Minister. The two-year sentence may, in practice, be extended indefinitely without any avenues for due process or appeal.\n\nLim is a controversial figure for his strongly held views about Malaysian politics; some, such as Malay Malaysian writer Bakri Musa, have labelled him and fellow DAP leader Karpal Singh as racial provocateurs.\n\nIn 2008, after winning 12th general election, Lim Kit Siang issued an instruction for all DAP representatives to stay away from the swearing-in ceremony for Perak Menteri Besar, claiming that there was no DAP CEC mandate for PAS Menteri Besar in Perak. This caused the Perak MB swearing-in ceremony to be cancelled and only took place after Lim Kit Siang apologised and retracted his instruction.\n\nIn 1992, Lim Kit Siang was suspended from Parliament for eight months for calling on the then Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad to present a White Paper in Parliament on the outcome of ACA re-opening of investigations into the MIC President and the Minister for Energy, Posts and Telecommunications, Datuk Seri S. Samy Vellu and the MAIKA Telekom shares hijacking scandal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16727839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16727839", "title": "List of People of the Year Award winners", "text": "List of People of the Year Award winners\n\nThe Rehab People of the Year Awards is an annual awards ceremony in Ireland organised by The Rehab Group, televised by RTÉ television.\n\nThe Awards are given to people who bring joy and light to the lives of others or have supported others in their darkest hours. These are individuals who have demonstrated their courage and energy in Ireland and throughout the world. The nominees are chosen by members of the public. The winners are then chosen by a panel of adjudicators, composed of leading members of the media, voluntary sector and business community.\n\nThe Awards had for many years been held in December of each year. The 2018 edition, awarded for nominations made in 2017, was held in April, having been postponed from February due to \"Beast from the East\" weather event.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUna gallagher\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPC John Myhill\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59031841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59031841", "title": "List of Queensland Australian of the Year award recipients", "text": "List of Queensland Australian of the Year award recipients\n\nThe Queensland Australian of the Year Award is given annually on Australia Day. The announcement of the award has become a major public event in Australia, and is televised nationwide. The award \"offers an insight into Australian identity, reflecting the nation's evolving relationship with world, the role of sport in Australian culture, the impact of multiculturalism, and the special status of Australia's Indigenous people\".\n\nThe national level awards, four in total, are chosen exclusively from the state and territory award recipients.\n\nThe following is a list of the recipients of the Queensland Australian of the Year award.\n\n"}
{"id": "17484359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17484359", "title": "Marina Silva", "text": "Marina Silva\n\nMaria Osmarina Marina Silva Vaz de Lima (born 8 February 1958) is a Brazilian politician and environmentalist. She is currently the spokeswoman for the Sustainability Party (REDE). During her political career, Silva served as a Senator of the state of Acre between 1995 and 2011 and Minister of the Environment from 2003 to 2008. She ran for president in 2010, 2014 and 2018.\n\nBorn in a rubber plantation in Acre, Marina moved to the state capital Rio Branco as a teenager, where she became literate. After graduating high school, she completed her undergraduate degree in History from the Federal University of Acre at 26. She developed an interest in politics and joined the Communist Revolutionary Party, a Marxist organization that was housed in the Workers Party (PT), later helping to found the Central Workers' Union of Acre. She helped Chico Mendes to lead the trade union movement, being elected as councillor of Rio Branco in 1988 for her first mandate in a public office. \n\nSilva was a member of the PT until 2009, and served as a Senator before becoming Minister of the Environment in 2003. She ran for president in the 2010 Brazilian elections as the candidate for the Green Party (PV), coming in 3rd with 19% of the first-round vote. In April 2014, Eduardo Campos announced his candidacy for the fall 2014 presidential election, naming Marina Silva as his vice presidential candidate. After Campos's death in a plane crash on August, she was selected to run as the Socialist Party's candidate for the Presidency. In the first round of the October 2014 election, she won 21% of the vote (less than many of the opinion polls had predicted), coming in 3rd and failing to advance to the run-off. In the second round, she supported PSDB candidate Aécio Neves over PT incumbent Dilma Rousseff. She is running for president again in the 2018 election, this time under the Sustainability Network.\n\nSilva has won a number of awards from US and international organizations in recognition of her environmental activism. In 1996, Silva won the Goldman Environmental Prize for South & Central America. In 2007, the United Nations Environment Program named her one of the Champions of the Earth and the 2009 Sophie Prize. In December 2014, Marina Silva was elected by the British \"Financial Times\" newspaper as one of its \"Women of the Year\". Silva is also a member of Washington, D.C.-based think tank, the Inter-American Dialogue. In 2010, she, along with Cécile Duflot, Monica Frassoni, Elizabeth May and Renate Künast, were named by \"Foreign Policy\" magazine to its list of top global thinkers, for taking Green mainstream. In 2012 she was one of eight people chosen to carry the flag for the opening ceremonies of the London Olympic Games.\n\nMarina Silva was born Maria Osmarina da Silva in the small village of Breu Velho, 70 km outside Rio Branco, Acre. Silva is a descendant of Portuguese and black African ancestors in both her maternal and paternal lines. She was one of eleven children in a community of rubber tappers on the \"Bagaço\" rubber tree plantation (Portuguese \"Seringal Bagaço\"), in the western state of Acre. Growing up, she survived five bouts of malaria in addition to cases of hepatitis and metal poisoning.\n\nOrphaned at age 16, young Marina moved to the state capital, Rio Branco, to study and receive treatment for hepatitis. She was taken in by nuns in a convent and received a Catholic education. There, she became the first person in her family to learn to read and write. After leaving the convent, she went to work as a housemaid in exchange for lodging. She completed her undergraduate degree in History from the Federal University of Acre at 26 and became increasingly politically active. In 1984 Silva helped create Acre's first workers' union.\n\nShe led demonstrations called \"empates\" with Chico Mendes to warn against deforestation and the outplacement of forest communities from their traditional locations.\n\nIn 1994, Ms. Silva was the first rubber tapper ever elected to the Federal Senate. As a native Amazonian and a senator, she built support for environmental protection of the reserves as well as for social justice and sustainable development in the Amazon region.\nDeforestation decreased by 59% from 2004 to 2007, during which she implemented an integrated government policy. It simultaneously fostered sustainable development, favored territorial zoning, and attached greater value to standing forests. It also incorporated elements from international conventions and documents. \"All of this demonstrates that, when there is integrated planning and effort, it is truly possible to change the picture,\" Silva said in a statement to the Embassy of Brazil in London.\n\nA member of the Workers' Party, Marina Silva was appointed Environment Minister by Lula in his first term (2003). She remained in office until 2008 and received several criticisms from entrepreneurs (mainly related to agribusiness) on account of delays in granting permits for projects with large environmental impact. In early 2005, however, she stated that she would not give up upon facing challenges even if imposed by the government to which she belonged, like the controversy over the São Francisco River Diversion Project, and the building of the BR-163 highway through the rainforest: \"I don't admit defeat, just challenges that must be overcome\".\n\nAlso in 2005, Silva established her main lines of action for the next two years: social participation, sustainable development, creation of a National Environmental System, and an Integrated Environmental Policy. As she said, \"Our ministry is new. It's only 13 years old, and it needs to be rebuilt\".\n\nIn the same year, Silva was confronted by Paulo Adário, coordinator of Greenpeace Brazil, over her environmental actions during her tenure in the ministry. Ever since her tenure began, Ms. Silva, together with the Federal Police, the Brazilian Army and the Federal Highway Police, performed 32 operations against illegal deforestation in the Amazon. But Adário claims that his organization monitors the Amazon region and that only one such operation was conducted in October 2004, in the town of Itaituba, Pará. According to him, even if the 32 operations had actually been carried out, it would represent only half of what was anticipated in the National Plan to Combat Deforestation.\n\nSilva resigned from the Lula government in May 2008. She was replaced by Carlos Minc. Silva cited \"the growing resistance found by our team in important sectors of the government and society\" as the reason for her resignation. Tension between her and the rest of the Lula administration increased when President Lula da Silva chose Minister of Strategic Affairs Roberto Mangabeira Unger to coordinate a sustainable development plan for the Amazon, instead of her. She had become increasingly isolated in Lula da Silva's government due to her views against hydroelectric dams, biofuels, and genetically modified crops.\n\nOn 19 August 2009, Silva announced her switch from the Workers' Party to the Green Party, primarily in protest against the environmental policies endorsed by the PT. Confirming the expectations, Marina Silva launched her candidacy to the 2010 election under the Green Party ticket on 16 May 2010 in the city of Nova Iguaçu, state of Rio de Janeiro. Silva said she wanted to be \"the first black woman of poor origin\" to become president of Brazil.\n\nShe has also become a Pentecostal Christian in the Assemblies of God, the second largest Christian denomination in Brazil after the declining but still mainstream Roman Catholic Church. Nevertheless, during her election campaign, she was criticized by one of the main leaders of the Brazilian Assemblies of God, Pastor Silas Malafaia, after having proposed a referendum on abortion and decriminalization of marijuana. According to Malafaia, Marina Silva should be \"more courageous and consistent\" in defense of her religious convictions.\n\nIn her campaign, Silva defended the \"exercise of citizen-based political principles and values\", \"education for the knowledge society\", \"economy applied to a sustainable society\", \"social protection, health, welfare and 3rd generation of social programs\", \"quality of life and safety for all Brazilians\", and \"strengthening of culture and diversity\".\n\nWith her speech against the endemic corruption in Brazil (see \"A Privataria Tucana\" and \"Mensalão scandal\"), and in favor of sustainable development (with a due consideration to environmental issues), Silva managed to attract the middle class sectors disillusioned with the government of the Fernando Henrique Cardoso's PSDB and dissatisfied with the compensatory social policies of Lula da Silva's administration. As a result, she came to be seen as an alternative.\n\nMarina Silva received strong support among young and highly educated voters. Running on a small party ticket, she had about 1/20th of the TV time compared to the other two biggest party coalitions. Opinion polls notwithstanding, she received 19.4% of the votes cast. This number far exceeded earlier estimates (more than double), but not enough to join the runoff against Dilma Rousseff or José Serra.\n\nThe participation of Marina Silva as one of the eight invited flag-bearers to carry the Olympic flag at the opening of the London Summer Games 2012, took by surprise the Brazilian government representatives present at the ceremony. In the Brazilian press headlines like \"Marina steals Dilma's attention\" appeared. Commenting on the event, Aldo Rebelo, Brazilian Sports Minister from the PT, which realised it would likely lose votes to Marina in a presidential contest, said that Silva \"always had good relations with the European aristocracy\" and that it was the responsibility of the Royal House to choose who would participate in the event. The Olympic Committee said it was aware of Silva's work as an activist in defense of the rainforest, but denied any political motivations regarding the choice. About her participation in the ceremony, Silva compared it to the feeling she got when passing, aged 16, her literacy course: \"it was the same kind of happiness.\"\n\nOn 16 February 2013 a new party, \"Rede Sustentabilidade\" (\"Sustainability Network\"), was officially launched in Brasilia. According to its founders, the name to be used at the polls would be simply REDE (\"NETWORK\").\n\nOn 4 October 2013, the Supreme Electoral Court blocked the party's creation, there being insufficient signatures to register it. The following day, Marina announced her affiliation to the Brazilian Socialist Party.\n\nIn April 2014, Eduardo Campos announced his name for the October 2014 presidential election, naming Marina Silva as his candidate for vice president.\n\nOn Wednesday, 13 August 2014, Campos' private jet, with six others on board, crashed in bad weather as it was preparing to land in the coastal city of Santos, just south of São Paulo. After his death, Silva became the Brazilian Socialist Party's candidate for President of Brazil. Soon after taking the place of Campos in the bid, Marina polled 20% of the votes, 10% more than Campos was polling. She enjoys strong support among young voters and evangelicals, but because of her pro-environmental stance she is largely distrusted by Brazil's powerful agribusiness sector. As an Evangelical Christian, she opposes abortion. On 30 August 2014, Silva generated considerable controversy when she renounced the party's support for same-sex marriage, which was supported by Campos and had been included in the party's manifesto, published a day earlier.\n\nOn Sunday, 5 October 2014, Silva received 21% of the vote in the first round of the election, to Rousseff's 41% and Neves's 34%. Although many observers had expected Silva to advance to a second round against Rousseff, Silva ultimately received a much lower share of the vote than most opinion polls had indicated in the lead-up to the election, and did not advance to the 26 October run-off. Some days after the election she endorsed Aecio Neves in the run-off against Dilma Rousseff.\nOn 4 August 2018, Marina Silva was officially nominated as the Sustainability Network's presidential candidate in the 2018 elections. Silva's running mate is Eduardo Jorge of the Green Party.\n\nUntil August 2018, Silva came in third in opinion polls for the presidency, behind Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (whose candidacy was later barred) and Jair Bolsonaro. However, she has later been overtaken by Ciro Gomes, Fernando Haddad, and Geraldo Alckmin, and was later polling fifth on average.\n\nIn the last few days before the election, her poll numbers dropped significantly, and in the end she polled around a single percentage point. She came out eight with 1.0% and 1,066,893 votes.\n\nMarina Silva is generally considered to be a centrist and an environmentalist. She is running on an anti-corruption platform. She opposes Brazil's nuclear energy program, and wants to redistribute the nuclear energy funds in order to allocate more money towards solar and wind power. Furthermore, she wants to initiate a national plebiscite on investments in nuclear energy. She is in favor of imposing presidential term limits.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199582", "title": "Mark Bright", "text": "Mark Bright\n\nMark Abraham Bright (born 6 June 1962) is an English former footballer who is now a sports pundit on BBC, British Eurosport and Al Jazeera, as well as a coach at Crystal Palace.\n\nHe made the move from non-league Leek Town to Port Vale in 1981, where he remained for three years before he signed with Leicester City. In 1986, he transferred to Crystal Palace, where he would score 92 league goals over the next six years. Joining Sheffield Wednesday in 1992, he stayed with the club for five years before moving to Swiss side FC Sion in 1997, following a short loan stay at Millwall. He returned to England later in 1997 to play for Charlton Athletic, before he announced his retirement in 1999. A forward, he scored 166 goals in 461 league games throughout an 18-year career in the Football League. He played in one League Cup and two FA Cup finals, all of which ended in defeat. He helped Crystal Palace and Charlton Athletic to win promotion to the top-flight via the play-offs.\n\nAfter a spell working in a factory and playing part-time at Cheshire County League outfit Leek Town, Bright moved to John McGrath's Port Vale in October 1981, a club that had previously released him from their youth team at the age of 16. He made his full debut on the last day of the 1981–82 season, in a 2–0 win over Torquay United at Vale Park, two weeks after coming on as a substitute in a goalless home draw with York City on 1 May 1982. He played just once in the 1982–83 Fourth Division promotion campaign, scoring Vale's second goal in a 2–0 home win over Hereford United on 9 October. Bright came to prominence for the \"Valiants\" under the stewardship of new boss John Rudge towards the end of the 1983–84 season, scoring ten goals in 31 games, though this was not enough to save the club from relegation out of the Third Division. Graham Barnett advised him to reject John Rudge's offer of a two-year contract, and in June 1984 Bright was sold to Leicester City for £33,333. This fee was later doubled due to a top-up clause.\n\nGordon Milne's \"Foxes\" struggled in the lower half of the First Division table in the 1984–85 and 1985–86 seasons. Bright scored six goals in 42 league games in his two seasons on Filbert Street. He was sold on by new manager Bryan Hamilton early in the 1986–87 season.\n\nBright was signed to Crystal Palace by manager Steve Coppell for a £75,000 fee in November 1986. The \"Eagles\" were pressing for promotion out of the Second Division, but finished two points outside the play-offs in 1986–87. He earned the Golden Boot for the highest scorer in the division in 1987–88 with 24 goals, though again the club finished one place and two points outside of the play-offs. A third-place finish in 1988–89 secured them a play-off place. In the play-offs, he scored in the semi-final victory over Swindon Town, which helped Palace to reach the play-off final; Palace then beat Blackburn Rovers 4–3 on aggregate, to win promotion to the top-flight.\n\nHis 12 goals in the First Division in 1989–90 were an important part of Palace's creditable showing, and it was Bright's crashing drive at the start of the second-half that began Palace's recovery against Liverpool in the FA Cup semi-final and ultimately helped them to get to the final at Wembley. Their victory over Liverpool was particularly remarkable as they had lost 9–0 at Anfield at the start of the season. After a 3–3 draw in the original tie, Palace lost 1–0 to Manchester United in the replay of the final.\n\nAs Palace impressed in the First Division throughout 1990–91, Bright proved his predatory skills at the highest level with a sequence of seven top-flight goals in just ten midwinter games as the \"Eagles\" secured their highest ever league finish of third. The potency of Bright and Ian Wright's partnership was demonstrated on 25 September 1990, when both players scored hat-tricks in an 8–0 win over Southend United at Selhurst Park in the League Cup. Even after Wright had left the club Bright continued his great form for Palace, and his 17 First Division goals in 1991–92 was, at the time, a record return for a Palace striker in the top-flight; he was also the division's seventh highest scorer.\n\nBright left Palace for Sheffield Wednesday in September 1992 in a cash plus player exchange deal involving fellow striker Paul Williams. He finished as the club's top-scorer for three consecutive seasons, taking pressure off club stalwart David Hirst. He eventually became the \"Owls\" highest goalscorer in the Premier League to date, scoring 48 goals between 1992 and 1996. After scoring six goals in the League Cup, Bright played in the League Cup Final, which ended in a 2–1 defeat to Arsenal. One of Bright's notable goals came in the All-Sheffield FA Cup semi-final in 1993, Bright's extra-time header sealing a place in the final. He fared far less well in the final itself, controversially elbowing Arsenal defender Andy Linighan in the face, causing a broken nose. Later, with the scores level in the last minute of extra time, a heavily bandaged Linighan out-jumped Bright from a corner to score the winning goal.\n\nWith 19 goals, he was Wednesday's highest scorer and the Premier League's seventh highest scorer in 1993–94. He then hit 13 goals in the 1994–95 season, in manager Trevor Francis's last season in charge. Bright played in the 1995 UEFA Intertoto Cup, scoring goals against Polish club Górnik Zabrze, German side Karlsruher SC, and Danish side AGF. The Hillsborough outfit then finished 15th in the league in 1995–96 under the stewardship of David Pleat. Bright then fell out of the first team picture in 1996–97, and was loaned to Second Division side Millwall, before joining Swiss club FC Sion in January 1997. He left soon after due to unpaid wages and issues with his transfer fee with Sheffield Wednesday.\n\nBright joined Alan Curbishley's Charlton Athletic towards the end of the 1996–97 season. He helped the \"Addicks\" to finish fourth in the second tier in 1997–98, and played in their dramatic win over Sunderland in the 1998 play off final, which was won 7–6 on penalties after a 4–4 draw. He left The Valley and retired from professional football at the end of the 1998–99 season.\n\nAfter retiring, Bright became a football correspondent on \"The Big Breakfast\". He currently works on the BBC show \"Football Focus\". He also commentates on some international matches, often alongside Jonathan Pearce and Steve Wilson on \"Match of the Day\". He is also the sports correspondent for BBC London News. He has also written for \"Match\" magazine, appeared on \"606\" phone-in show, \"Fighting Talk\" radio show, \"5 live Sport\" radio show, and on television programme \"Final Score\".\n\nIn 2013, Bright agreed to join the British Eurosport team to commentate on the live African Cup of Nations matches.\n\nBright featured as himself in a television advert for Prostate Cancer UK in January 2013 alongside impressionist Jon Culshaw, who featured as Tiziano Crudeli.\n\nFor the 2013/14 season, Bright joined Al Jazeera as a pundit on their Premier League coverage.\n\nIn summer 2009 he joined the Crystal Palace academy set-up, along with his former teammate John Salako.\n\nBright's father was Gambian and his mother was English, he was raised in his mother's hometown of Stoke-on-Trent. \n\nHe met British singer and actress Michelle Gayle in 1995, the couple later married in Las Vegas and in 2000 had a son they named Isaiah. They separated in 2007, though remain on good terms.\n\nIn his spare time he enjoys playing golf and riding motorbikes.\n\nBright has completed six half marathons since his retirement in 1999, all of them in the Great North Run. He is also a regular competitor in the London Marathon, raising funds for cancer research in 2000, the Willow Foundation in 2005 and The Rhys Daniels Trust in 2006. In 2006, he starred in Cirque de Celebrité, only to be the first person to be voted off. In March 2007, he scored the first goal at the new Wembley Stadium for a \"Geoff Thomas Foundation Charity XI\", in aid of his captain at Palace, Geoff Thomas; his team won 2–0 (Simon Jordan scoring the second goal).\n\nSource:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "796125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796125", "title": "Mary Edwards Walker", "text": "Mary Edwards Walker\n\nMary Edwards Walker (November 26, 1832 – February 21, 1919), commonly referred to as Dr. Mary Walker, was an American abolitionist, prohibitionist, prisoner of war and surgeon. She was the only woman to ever receive the Medal of Honor.\n\nIn 1855, she earned her medical degree at Syracuse Medical College in New York, married and started a medical practice. She volunteered with the Union Army at the outbreak of the American Civil War and served as a surgeon at a temporary hospital in Washington, D.C., even though at the time women and sectarian physicians were considered unfit for the Union Army Examining Board. She was captured by Confederate forces after crossing enemy lines to treat wounded civilians and arrested as a spy. She was sent as a prisoner of war to Richmond, Virginia until released in a prisoner exchange.\n\nAfter the war, she was approved for the Medal of Honor, for her efforts to treat the wounded during the Civil War. Notably, the award was not expressly given for gallantry in action at that time, and in fact was the only military decoration during the Civil War. Walker is the only woman to receive the medal and one of only eight civilians to receive it. Her name was deleted from the Army Medal of Honor Roll in 1917 (along with over 900 other male MOH recipients); however, it was restored in 1977. After the war, she was a writer and lecturer supporting the women's suffrage movement until her death in 1919.\n\nMary Edwards Walker was born in the Town of Oswego, New York, on November 26, 1832, the daughter of Alvah (father) and Vesta (mother) Walker. She was the youngest of seven children: she had five sisters and one brother. Alvah and Vesta raised both their son and their daughters in a progressive manner that was revolutionary for the time. Their nontraditional parenting nurtured Mary's spirit of independence and sense of justice that she actively demonstrated throughout her life. While they were devoted Christians, the Walkers were \"free thinkers\" who raised their children to question the regulations and restrictions of various denominations. The Walker parents also demonstrated non-traditional gender roles to their children regarding sharing work around the farm: Vesta often participated in heavy labor while Alvah took part in general household chores. Walker worked on her family farm as a child. She did not wear women's clothing during farm labor because she considered it too restricting. Her mother reinforced her views that corsets and tight lacings were unhealthy.\n\nHer elementary education consisted of attendance at the local school that her parents had started. The Walkers were determined that their daughters be as well-educated as their son, so they founded the first free schoolhouse in Oswego in the late 1830s. After finishing primary school, Mary and two of her older sisters attended Falley Seminary in Fulton, New York. Falley was not only an institution of higher learning, but a place that emphasized modern social reform in gender roles, education, and hygiene. Its ideologies and practices further cemented Mary's determination to defy traditional feminine standards on a principle of injustice. In her free time, Mary would pore over her father's medical texts on anatomy and physiology; her interest in medicine is attributable to her exposure to medical literature at an early age. As a young woman, she taught at a school in Minetto, New York, eventually earning enough money to pay her way through Syracuse Medical College, where she graduated with honors as a medical doctor in 1855, the only woman in her class.\n\nShe married a fellow medical school student, Albert Miller, on November 16, 1855, shortly before she turned 23. Walker wore a short skirt with trousers underneath, refused to include \"obey\" in her vows, and retained her last name, all characteristic of her obstinate nonconformity. They set up a joint practice in Rome, New York. The practice did not flourish, as female physicians were generally not trusted or respected at that time. They later divorced, on account of Miller's infidelity.\n\nWalker briefly attended Bowen Collegiate Institute (later named Lenox College) in Hopkinton, Iowa, in 1860, until she was suspended for refusing to resign from the school's debating society, which until she joined had been all male.\n\nInspired by her parents' novel standard of dressing for health purposes, Walker was infamous for contesting traditional female wardrobe. In 1871, she wrote, \"The greatest sorrows from which women suffer to-day are those physical, moral, and mental ones, that are caused by their unhygienic manner of dressing!\" She strongly opposed women's long skirts with numerous petticoats, not only for their discomfort and their inhibition to the wearer's mobility but for their collection and spread of dust and dirt. As a young woman, she began experimenting with various skirt-lengths and layers, all with men's trousers underneath. By 1861, her typical ensemble included trousers with suspenders under a knee-length dress with a tight waist and full skirt.\n\nWhile encouraged by her family, Walker's wardrobe choices were often met with criticism. Once, while a schoolteacher, she was assaulted on her way home by a neighboring farmer and a group of boys, who chased her and attacked her with eggs and other missiles. Female colleagues in medical school criticized her choices, and patients often gawked at her and teased her. She nevertheless persisted in her mission to reform women's dress. Her view that women's dress should \"protect the person, and allow freedom of motion and circulation, and not make the wearer a slave to it\" made her commitment to dress reform as great as her zeal for abolitionism. She famously wrote to the women's journal, \"The Sibyl: A Review of the Tastes, Errors, and Fashions of Society\", about her campaign against women's fashion, amongst other things, for its injuries to health, its expense, and its contribution to the dissolution of marriages. Her literature contributed to the spread of her ideas, and made her a popular figure amongst other feminists and woman physicians. \n\nIn 1870, Dr. Walker was arrested in New Orleans and mocked by men because she was dressed as a man. The arresting officer Mullahy twisted her arm and asked her if she had ever had sex with a man. Dr. Walker was released from custody when she was recognized at Police Court. New Orleans Republican February 22, 23, 1870.\n\nDespite having kept a private practice for many years, Walker volunteered at the outbreak of American Civil War as a surgeon - first for the Army, but was rejected because she was a woman. She was offered the role of a nurse but declined and chose to volunteer as a surgeon for the Union Army as a civilian. The U.S. Army had no female surgeons, and at first, she was allowed to practice only as a nurse. During this period, she served at the First Battle of Bull Run (Manassas), July 21, 1861, and at the Patent Office Hospital in Washington, D.C. She worked as an unpaid field surgeon near the Union front lines, including at the Battle of Fredericksburg and in Chattanooga after the Battle of Chickamauga. As a suffragist, she was happy to see women serving as soldiers, and alerted the press to the case of Frances Hook, in Ward 2 of the Chattanooga hospital, a woman who served in the Union forces disguised as a man. Walker was the first female surgeon of the Union army. She wore men's clothing during her work, claiming it to be easier for high demands of her work.\n\nIn September 1862, Walker wrote to the War Department requesting employment as a spy, but her proposal was declined. In September 1863, she was employed as a \"Contract Acting Assistant Surgeon (civilian)\" by the Army of the Cumberland, becoming the first female surgeon employed by the U.S. Army Surgeon. Walker was later appointed assistant surgeon of the 52nd Ohio Infantry. During her service, she frequently crossed battle lines and treated civilians.\n\nOn April 10, 1864, she was captured by Confederate troops, and arrested as a spy, just after she finished helping a Confederate doctor perform an amputation. She was sent to Castle Thunder in Richmond, Virginia, and remained there until August 12, 1864, when she was released as part of a prisoner exchange. While she was imprisoned, she refused to wear the clothes provided her, said to be more \"becoming of her sex\". Walker was exchanged for a Confederate surgeon from Tennessee on August 12, 1864.\n\nShe went on to serve as supervisor of a female prison in Louisville, Kentucky, and as the head of an orphanage in Tennessee.\n\nAfter the war, Walker was awarded a disability pension for partial muscular atrophy suffered while she was imprisoned by the enemy. She was given $8.50 a month, beginning June 13, 1865, but in 1899 that amount was raised to $20 per month.\n\nShe became a writer and lecturer, supporting such issues as health care, temperance, women's rights, and dress reform for women. She was frequently arrested for wearing men's clothing, and insisted on her right to wear clothing that she thought appropriate. She wrote two books that discussed women's rights and dress. She replied to criticism of her attire: \"I don't wear men's clothes, I wear my own clothes.\"\n\nWalker was a member of the central woman's suffrage Bureau in Washington, and solicited funds to endow a chair for a woman professor at Howard University medical school. She attempted to register to vote in 1871, but was turned away. The initial stance of the movement, following her lead, was to claim that women already had the right to vote, and Congress needed only to enact enabling legislation. After a number of fruitless years advocating this position, the movement promoted the adoption of a constitutional amendment. This was diametrically opposed to her position, and she fell out of favor with the movement. She continued to attend suffrage conventions and distribute her own literature, but was virtually ignored by the rest of the movement. Her penchant for wearing masculine clothing, including a top hat, only exacerbated the situation. She received a more favorable reception in England than in the United States.\n\nIn 1907, Walker published \"Crowning Constitutional Argument\", in which she argued that some States, as well as the federal Constitution, had already granted women the right to vote. She testified on women's suffrage before committees of the U.S. House of Representatives in 1912 and 1914.\n\nAfter a long illness, Walker died at home on February 21, 1919, at the age of eighty-six. She was buried at Rural Cemetery in Oswego, New York, in a plain funeral, with an American flag draped over her casket, and wearing a black suit instead of a dress. Her death in 1919 came one year before the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which guaranteed women the right to vote.\n\nAfter the war, Walker sought a retroactive brevet or commission to validate her service. President Johnson directed Secretary of War Edwin Stanton to study the legality of the issue, and he solicited an opinion from the Army's Judge Advocate General, who determined that there was no precedent for commissioning a female, but that a \"commendatory acknowledgment\" could be issued in lieu of the commission. This led Johnson to personally award the Medal of Honor as an alternative. Thus, Walker was not formally recommended for the Medal of Honor, and this unusual process may also explain why authorities overlooked her ineligibility, ironically on the grounds of lacking a commission.\n\nIn 1916, the U.S. Congress created a pension act for Medal of Honor recipients, and in doing so created separate Army and Navy Medal of Honor Rolls. The Army was directed to review eligibility of prior recipients in a separate bill not related to the pension rolls, but which had been requested by the Army in order to retroactively police undesirable awards. The undesirable awards resulted from the lack of regulations on the medal; the Army had published no regulations until 1897, and the law had very few requirements, meaning that recipients could earn a medal for virtually any reason, resulting in nearly 900 awards for enlistment extensions not in combat. The Army's Medal of Honor Board deliberated from 1916 to 1917, and struck 911 names from the Army Medal of Honor Roll, including those of Dr. Mary Edwards Walker and William F. \"Buffalo Bill\" Cody. The latter were considered ineligible for the Army Medal of Honor because the 1862, 1863, and 1904 laws strictly required recipients to be officers or enlisted members. In Walker's case, she was a civilian contract surgeon, and was not a commissioned officer. Nevertheless, the Medal of Honor Board most certainly discriminated against Walker because it declined to revoke the Medal of at least two other contract surgeons who were equally ineligible. One of these was Major General Leonard Wood, a former Chief of Staff of the Army who was a civilian contract surgeon in the same status as Walker when he was recommended for the award. This was known to the Medal of Honor Board, as board president General Nelson Miles had twice recommended Wood's medal and knew that he was ineligible. The disenrolled recipients were not ordered to return their medals per a recommendation from the Army Judge Advocate General, who noted that Congress did not grant the Army the jurisdiction to enforce this provision of the statute, rendering both the repossession and criminal penalties inoperative.\n\nAlthough several sources attribute President Jimmy Carter with restoring Walker's medal posthumously in 1977, this is probably incorrect, since the action was taken well below the Secretary of the Army, at the level of the Army's Assistant Secretary for Manpower and Reserve Affairs, which was acting on a recommendation from the Board for Correction of Military Records. In fact, both the Ford and Carter Administrations opposed the restoration; the Carter White House reacted with confusion to the announcement of the Board's decision. A recent historical work documented that the Board for Correction probably exceeded its authority in making a unilateral restoration of the medal, since the Board is merely a delegation of the authority of the Secretary of the Army, and thus cannot contradict a standing law much less a law that expressly required the revocation of Walker's medal. Therefore, the decision was controversial because it raised separation of powers issues; the Board's mandate was only to correct errors or injustices within its authority, not act against the authority of public law. This very point was illustrated by the awarding of Garlin Conner's Medal of Honor in early 2018, which also originated from the Board for Correction, but instead went through the President and required a statutory waiver from Congress-- seen to be a requirement because the Board lacked the authority to contravene a public law and the associated statutes of limitations.\n\nWalker felt that she had been awarded the Medal of Honor because she had gone into enemy territory to care for the suffering inhabitants, when no man had the courage to do so, for fear of being imprisoned.\n\nRank and organization: Contract Acting Assistant Surgeon (civilian), U. S. Army. Places and dates: Battle of Bull Run, July 21, 1861; Patent Office Hospital, Washington, D.C., October 1861; Chattanooga, Tenn., following Battle of Chickamauga, September 1863; Prisoner of War, April 10, 1864 – August 12, 1864, Richmond, Va.; Battle of Atlanta, September 1864. Entered service at: Louisville, Ky. Born: 26 November 1832, Oswego County, N.Y.\n\nCitation:\n<poem>Where as it appears from official reports that Dr. Mary E. Walker, a graduate of medicine, \"has rendered valuable service to the Government, and her efforts have been earnest and untiring in a variety of ways,\" and that she was assigned to duty and served as an assistant surgeon in charge of female prisoners at Louisville, Ky., upon the recommendation of Major-Generals Sherman and Thomas, and faithfully served as contract surgeon in the service of the United States, and has devoted herself with much patriotic zeal to the sick and wounded soldiers, both in the field and hospitals, to the detriment of her own health, and has also endured hardships as a prisoner of war four months in a Southern prison while acting as contract surgeon; and Whereas by reason of her not being a commissioned officer in the military service, a brevet or honorary rank cannot, under existing laws, be conferred upon her; and Whereas in the opinion of the President an honorable recognition of her services and sufferings should be made.\n\nIt is ordered, That a testimonial thereof shall be hereby made and given to the said Dr. Mary E. Walker, and that the usual medal of honor for meritorious services be given her.</poem>\n\nWalker was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame in 2000.\n\nDuring World War II, a Liberty ship, the SS \"Mary Walker\", was named for her.\n\nIn 1982, the U.S. Postal Service issued a twenty-cent stamp in her honor, marking the anniversary of her birth.\n\nThe medical facilities at SUNY Oswego are named in her honor (Mary Walker Health Center). On the same grounds a plaque explains her importance in the Oswego community.\n\nThere is a United States Army Reserve center named for her in Walker, Michigan.\n\nThe Whitman-Walker Clinic in Washington, D.C., is named in honor of Walker and the poet Walt Whitman, who was a nurse in D.C. during the Civil War.\n\nThe Mary Walker Clinic at Fort Irwin National Training Center in California is named in honor of Walker.\n\nThe Mary E. Walker House is a thirty-bed transitional residence run by the Philadelphia Veterans Multi-Service & Education Center for homeless women veterans.\n\nIn May 2012, a 900-pound bronze statue honoring Walker was unveiled in front of the Oswego, New York Town Hall.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "393836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393836", "title": "Mohamed Ghannouchi", "text": "Mohamed Ghannouchi\n\nMohamed Ghannouchi ( \"Muhammad Al-Ghannushi\"; born 18 August 1941) is a Tunisian politician who was Prime Minister of Tunisia from 1999 to 2011. Regarded as a technocrat, Ghannouchi was a long-standing figure in the Tunisian government under President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.\n\nAfter Ben Ali's ousting in the 2011 Tunisian Revolution, he remained Prime Minister for six weeks before stepping down.\n\nGhannouchi was a member of the Tunisian parliament for the Democratic Constitutional Rally. He was Minister of Finance from 1989 to 1992. From 1992 to 1999, he served as Minister of International Co-operation and Foreign Investment, and from 1999 to 2011 he was the Prime Minister of Tunisia, making him the longest serving prime minister since the proclamation of independence, surpassing his predecessor Hamed Karoui.\n\nAfter the fall of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on 14 January 2011 in the wake of the 2010–2011 Tunisian uprising, he was the self-proclaimed acting President of the country for a few hours starting on 14 January 2011, under Article 56 of the Constitution of Tunisia. He remained Prime Minister for six weeks before stepping down.\n\nIn a 2006 diplomatic cable from the United States that was leaked by WikiLeaks during the United States diplomatic cables leak, Ghannouchi was described as being generally popular among the population of Tunisia. Ghannouchi was seen as a respected technocrat by US diplomats in early 2010, with a cable stating, \"Prime Minister Ghannouchi, the respected, , pragmatic, and apolitical technocrat, has served in his post since 1999 and with his reappointment appears set to surpass longevity records for senior officials since Tunisia's independence in 1956. Tunis oddsmakers had expected Ghannouchi, reportedly tired after a decade on the job, to move on, but it appears Ben Ali has come to view him as indispensable.\" Passport, a blog by \"Foreign Policy\", gave a different view of Ghannouchi, saying he \"is not necessarily any more popular than Ben Ali, though he's not nearly as tainted by the lurid tales of corruption and excess that so damaged the ruling family. But Tunisians certainly don't respect the prime minister; they call him 'Mr. Oui Oui' because he's always saying yes to Ben Ali\".\n\nOn 14 January 2011, before Ben Ali had fled the country during the Tunisian Revolution, Ghannouchi announced that Ben Ali had called for parliamentary elections in six months, dismissed the government, and asked him to form a new government. During the evening, Ghannouchi announced that he was taking temporary control of the country on state television. Ghannouchi promised to begin discussing political and economic reforms the next day. Ghannouchi said he would hold new elections within sixty days, as required by the Tunisian Constitution. On January 15, \"The Economist\" reported that some protesters were calling for Ghannouchi to step down. On that same day, it was announced that Congress Speaker Fouad Mebazaa was taking the post of Acting President of Tunisia.\n\nAl Jazeera claimed that some lawyers disagreed with Ghannouchi's claim to power, interpreting the constitution differently, in particular referring to Article 57.\n\nAfterwards he resumed as Prime Minister and formed a new national unity government that included members of opposition parties, civil society representatives, and even a blogger, Slim Amamou, who only a week previous had been imprisoned by the regime of the deposed President.\n\nGhannouchi resigned his membership of the RCD on 18 January. His resignation was followed by similar action by the other RCD members within the government; but on 27 January, Ghannouchi carried out a major reshuffle of the government to remove all former RCD members other than himself.\n\nAfter a new wave of protests, Ghannouchi resigned as PM on 27 February 2011.\n\n\nGhannouchi is married and has two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51633955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51633955", "title": "Murder of Muriel Drinkwater", "text": "Murder of Muriel Drinkwater\n\nThe murder of Muriel Drinkwater is an unsolved 1946 child murder case from Wales. Drinkwater, a 12-year-old schoolgirl, was raped and shot in the woods in Penllergaer, Swansea. The case became known as the Little Red Riding Hood murder. In 2008, a DNA profile of the suspect was extracted from her clothes, possibly the oldest one in the world to be successfully extracted in a murder investigation.\n\nMuriel Joan Drinkwater was the youngest of four daughters born to John Percival and Margaret (\"née\" Morgans) Drinkwater. On 27 June 1946, she took the school bus home from Penllergaer Grammar School. She was last seen at 2:30 p.m., singing as she headed for the one-mile walk to her family's home, Tyle-Du Farm. The path she walked home on curved in and out of the woods; her mother saw her walking home along the path and go into the woods, but not come out again. The last person who reported seeing her was Hubert Hoyles, then 13, who passed her on the path returning from her family farm, where he had gone to buy eggs. Her mother later went to the village to look for her when she did not return home; more than a dozen men from the area began a search.\n\nThe next day, Drinkwater's body was found in the woods by a police inspector. She had been raped, shot twice in the chest, and beaten in the head. Two days later, police found one of the murder weapons, a World War I-era Colt .45. Glamorgan police, assisted by the 169th Bomb Disposal Unit, used a metal detector to search for a second weapon suspected to have been used, but never located it.\n\nDetectives from Scotland Yard came to Swansea to assist in the investigation of the murder, among a rash of slayings of women during the time. The police visited every house within 150 square miles, and interviewed 20,000 men in Swansea and neighbouring Aberdare and Carmarthenshire.\n\nMore than 3,000 mourners attended Drinkwater's funeral on 2 July. She was buried at St David's Church in Penllergaer.\n\nA description of a person of interest was circulated; he was described as approximately 30 years old, with \"thick fluffy hair and wearing brown corduroy trousers and a light brown sports jacket.\"\n\nPolice also circulated photos of the American army issue gun; notably, perspex had been used to modernise the original wooden stocks next to the grip. It was believed a similar weapon had been used in the murder of a cinema manager in Bristol. In August, the police appealed to the United States public for assistance, as many Americans had been stationed in Penllergaer during the recent war and there was a possibility one of the servicemen had sold the weapon.\n\nIn 2003, detectives re-opened the case in the hope of finding DNA evidence on the gun, but were not successful as too many people had handled the gun. It was believed her clothes had been lost.\n\nIn 2008, a team of retired detectives investigating cold cases found Drinkwater's clothes in storage. Her blue coat, underwear and school uniform had been wrapped in a paper bag and stored. On the back of the coat, a no-longer visible semen stain was circled with yellow crayon. Scientists successfully retrieved a DNA profile from the stain on the coat. A familial DNA profile was extracted using a technique called Y-STR, but no match was found in the national DNA database. Hubert Hoyles, who saw her after buying eggs at her parent's farm, was cleared by the DNA evidence. He stated he had long been suspected by some locals as the murderer and was happy to clear his name.\n\nIn 2009, Welsh police began reinvestigating any link with the murder of 11-year-old Sheila Martin, who was raped and strangled 250 miles away in Sun Hill Wood, Fawkham Green, Kent, on 7 July 1946, 10 days after Drinkwater's murder. Both girls were murdered in woods within a half mile of their homes. South Wales Police detectives requested the original case file from Kent Police to determine if there was a connection.\n\nWelsh true crime author Neil Milkins has theorised that notorious child murderer Harold Jones (1906–1971) was responsible for both murders.\n\nIn 2010, the Lord Chancellor's Advisory Council on National Records and Archives closed off public access to the case. The public can no longer access the Drinkwater files by Freedom of Information Act requests or in person at the archives office in Kew. The reason given for sealing the files was that it could help the police catch the perpetrator.\n\n"}
{"id": "9114569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9114569", "title": "National Missing Children's Day", "text": "National Missing Children's Day\n\nNational Missing Children's Day has been commemorated in the United States on May 25, since 1983, when it was first proclaimed by President Ronald Reagan. It falls on the same day as the International Missing Children's Day, which was established in 2001.\n\nIn the several years preceding the establishment of National Missing Children's day, a series of high-profile missing-children cases made national headlines.\n\nOn May 25, 1979, Etan Patz was only six years old when he disappeared from his New York City home on his way from bus to school. The date of his disappearance was designated as National Missing Children's Day. At the time, cases of missing children rarely garnered national media attention, but his case quickly received extensive coverage. His father, a professional photographer, distributed black-and-white photographs of him in an effort to find him. The resulting massive search and media attention that followed focused the public's attention on the problem of child abduction and the lack of plans to address it.\n\nFor almost three years, media attention was focused on Atlanta, Georgia, where the bodies of young children were discovered in lakes, marshes, and ponds along roadside trails. Twenty-nine bodies were recovered in the Atlanta murders of 1979–1981 before a suspect was arrested and convicted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29081921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29081921", "title": "Paul Reynolds (commentator)", "text": "Paul Reynolds (commentator)\n\nPaul Reynolds (4 October 1949 – 23 May 2010) was a New Zealand internet advocate in the cultural sector. He was an early advocate of IT systems and the Internet in the cultural sector in New Zealand.\n\nOf Scottish extraction, Reynolds spent much of his life in Auckland working for his company, McGovern Online, which he founded with his partner Helen Smith in 1995. For many years a commentator for Radio New Zealand on information technology, he was also an active advocate for the use of public-facing information technology by cultural institutions. He worked with libraries, museums and similar institutions to develop websites that informed, educated and engaged with the general public.\n\nHe held a number of roles including as a\nmember of the Governance Group of Aotearoa People's Network Kaharoa,\nboard member of the National Digital Forum,\nAdjunct Director (Digital Library) to the National Library of New Zealand,\nboard member of the Auckland War Memorial Museum and\nmember of Government’s Digital Strategy Advisory group.\n\nReynolds died in Auckland on 23 May 2010 of leukaemia\n\nIn 2010 a scholarship administered by LIANZA was established in memory of Reynolds from funds contributed by the National Library of New Zealand and friends of Reynolds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58322431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58322431", "title": "Philippe de Maldeghem", "text": "Philippe de Maldeghem\n\nPhilippe de Maldeghem (died 1611) was a Renaissance courtier, mayor of the Brugse Vrije and a translator of Petrarch.\n\nPhilippe's father was Josse van Maldeghem, lord of Leyschot and Oetsel, chamberlain to the duke of Bavaria, and mayor of the Brugse Vrije; his mother was Anne de Joigny de Pamele.\n\nPhilippe himself was steward and chamberlain to Ernest of Bavaria, Archbishop-Elector of Cologne and Prince-Bishop of Liège, and followed in his father's footsteps as mayor of the Brugse Vrije (1578–1608).\n\nIn 1600 he published a French translation of Petrarch in Brussels, dedicated to Maximilian of Bavaria.\n\nHe was knighted on 21 May 1605.\n\nIn 1567 he married Martine de Boonem (died 1607), who brought the lordship of Avelgem to the marriage. Together they had a number of children:\n\nPhilippe van Maldeghem died in Bruges in 1611 and was buried in St Philip's chapel in the Dominican church there.\n\n"}
{"id": "242555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242555", "title": "Primary Colors (novel)", "text": "Primary Colors (novel)\n\nPrimary Colors: A Novel of Politics is a \"roman à clef\", a work of fiction that actually describes real life characters and events – namely, Bill Clinton's first presidential campaign in 1992. It has been compared to two other novels about American politics: Robert Penn Warren's \"All the King's Men\" (1946) and \"\" (2011).\n\nThe book was originally published by an anonymous author, who was later found to be columnist Joe Klein. Klein completed a sequel of sorts, \"The Running Mate\" in 2000, focusing on the \"Primary Colors\" character of Charlie Martin.\n\nAn early reviewer opined that the author wished to remain unknown because \"Anonymity makes truthfulness much easier\". Later commentators called the publishing of the book under an anonymous identity an effective marketing strategy that produced more publicity for the book, and thus more sales, without calling into question the author's actual inside knowledge.\n\nSeveral people, including former Clinton speechwriter David Kusnet, believed the style of writing had similarities to that of Klein. This was also supported by a quantitative stylometric analysis of the book by Vassar professor Donald Foster. Klein initially denied writing the book and publicly condemned Foster. Klein denied authorship again in \"Newsweek\", speculating that another writer wrote it. \"Washington Post\" Style editor David von Drehle, in an interview, asked Klein if he was willing to stake his journalistic credibility on his denial, to which Klein agreed.\n\nOn July 17, 1996, after \"The Washington Post\" published the results of a handwriting analysis of notes made on an early manuscript of the book, Klein finally admitted that he was \"Anonymous\".\n\nThe book begins as an idealistic former congressional worker, Henry Burton, joins the presidential campaign of Southern governor Jack Stanton, a thinly disguised stand-in for Bill Clinton. The plot then follows the primary election calendar beginning in New Hampshire where Stanton's affair with Cashmere, his wife's hairdresser, and his participation in a Vietnam War era protest come to light and threaten to derail his presidential prospects. In Florida, Stanton revives his campaign by disingenuously portraying his Democratic opponent as insufficiently pro-Israel and as a weak supporter of Social Security. Burton becomes increasingly disillusioned with Stanton, who is a policy wonk who talks too long, eats too much and is overly flirtatious toward women. Stanton is also revealed to be insincere in his beliefs, saying whatever will help him to win. Matters finally come to a head, and Burton is forced to choose between idealism and realism.\n\n\"The New York Daily News\" described the book as a farce and praised it as funny, truthful, and as containing \"uncannily accurate\" portraits of its thinly disguised characters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14032637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14032637", "title": "Qol Ghali", "text": "Qol Ghali\n\nQol Ghali (, , , , \"Kul Gali\"; circa 1183-1236) was a famous Muslim Volga Bulgar poet, the founder of medieval Tatar literature. His most famous poem is \"Qíssai Yosıf\" (\"Tale of Yusuf\"), written in the Turki literary language, which is not mutually intelligible with the modern Tatar, Bashkir and Chuvash languages.\n\nIt is believed that he was born in what is today Eastern Tatarstan. He studied in the Khwarezmean madrassah. He wrote his immortal poem in 1233. He was probably killed in 1236 during the Mongol invasion of Volga Bulgaria.\n\nHis poems are celebrated by the Tatars, the Bashkirs and the Chuvash.\n\n\"Qíssai Yosıf\" was inspired by Qur'anic stories of Joseph. The poem is devoted to the struggle against evil and for human happiness. The poem played a major role in the Muslim Volga Bulgar culture and later the Tatar culture. More than 200 manuscripts have been found among the Tatars. The poem was prepared for publishing for the first time by the poet Utız İmäni and printed in 1839 by Räxmätulla Ämirxanov. Since then it has been republished 80 times.\n\nThe \"Qol Ghali International Award\" is named after Qol Ghali. It is awarded to recognize excellence in literature and poetry. The award was established in 1992.\n"}
{"id": "25825679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25825679", "title": "Rita Long Visitor Holy Dance", "text": "Rita Long Visitor Holy Dance\n\nRita Long Visitor Holy Dance is a Native American spiritual elder who is a member of the Oglala Lakota Tribe and comes from the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota. Through her work as an indigenous elder stateswoman, Rita has gained international recognition through her work as part of the International Council of 13 Indigenous Grandmothers - a group of spiritual elders, medicine women and wisdom keepers since its founding in 2004.\n\nHer older sister Beatrice waited for Rita to wed and they enjoyed a double wedding. She is a descendant of Long Visitor, and a member of the Crazy Horse Band. She works with a Youth Ambassador program for Lakota youth that connects them with their spiritual traditions, including the Sun Dance, and works to free youth from substance abuse. She has taught at the Omega Institute for Holistic Studies.\n\nIn 2004, Rita was approached by The Center for Sacred Studies to serve on the International Council of 13 Indigenous Grandmothers. T\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16048425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16048425", "title": "Sasha Siemel", "text": "Sasha Siemel\n\nAlexander \"Sasha\" Siemel (; 1890-1970) was an American/Argentinian adventurer, hunter, guide, actor, writer, photographer, and lecturer of Latvian origin. He spoke seven languages and boasted of having experienced more adventure in a single year than most men had witnessed in a lifetime. He is known among sportsmen, claiming to have successfully hunted more than 300 jaguars — or \"onças\", as the big cats are colloquially known in parts of Latin America—in the Mato Grosso jungles of Brazil. Siemel's accomplishments in pursuing the large and often dangerous jaguar (the biggest cat in the western hemisphere and third largest in the world) are all the more impressive because on many of his hunts he was allegedly armed only with a spear.\n\nBorn in Riga, Latvia, Siemel moved to the United States in 1907 at the age of 17. Staying in the states for only two years, he subsequently headed for Argentina where he was employed in a Buenos Aires printing shop. In 1914 Siemel traveled to the jungles of Brazil where he worked as a gunsmith and mechanic in the diamond mining camps of the Mato Grosso. There he met a native who taught him to become a \"Tigrero;\" that is, a hunter who kills jaguars armed only with a spear. In the article \"Interviewing the Tiger-Man\", Siemel states: \"… I learned the art from a poor native who had nothing but a home-made spear where I had my high-powered rifle. But I do think I was a good pupil and will admit that it calls for experience and judgment.\" In the July 1937 issue of \"Ye Slyvan Archer\", he wrote that: \"It is only logical and natural that I should (prefer the bow to the rifle). The spear is a primitive weapon, so is the bow. While I would not want to say that hunting big cats with a rifle can not be plenty dangerous and exciting under all circumstances, particularly so in our Matto Grosso jungles, where vision is extremely limited, it seems to me that the bow complements the spear. If I now had any use for a shield besides, I should feel perfectly equipped.\"\n\nWith his skill as a hunter Siemel worked on ranches of the Pantanal hunting jaguars, or \"onças,\" hired by landowners to protect their livestock. In 1925, he killed his first jaguar using a \"zagya,\" a seven-foot spear, making him the first white man to accomplish such a feat. This did not long go unnoticed by the \"civilized world.\" By 1931 a monograph, \"Green Hell,\" by Julian Duguid, appeared. The book recounts a 1929 trip across the Pantanal where the author and two fellow adventurers employ Siemel as their guide. Here Siemel is first given the moniker \"Tiger Man,\" which went on to become the title of Duguid's 1932 biography of the hunter. Encouraged by Duguid, Siemel began to lecture at explorer clubs throughout the world.\n\nIn 1937, while lecturing in Philadelphia, Siemel met Edith Bray, a young photographer, who later joined him in the Pantanal. Three years later, at the age of 47, he married Edith, and the two remained in the Pantanal and began raising a family. During this time, Siemel became an actor, appearing in the 1937 fifteen-episode Frank Buck serial \"Jungle Menace\" as Tiger Van Dorn. The serial was compiled into a feature film in 1946 and released under the title \"Jungle Terror\".\n\nSasha, Edith and their children, Sondra, Dora, and Sasha Jr. (Sashino), moved to southeastern Pennsylvania after purchasing a farm in 1947. Bom Retiro, as they named the farm, became Siemel's permanent residence for the rest of his life. Here the Siemels' second son, Carlie, was born in 1955, completing the family. Siemel led a quiet life, lecturing and continuing to lead expeditions to South America. He now spoke six languages: Latvian (learned in the streets in Riga), Russian (in the schools he attended as a youngster in Latvia), German (at home, his mother was German), English (in the USA), Spanish (in Argentina), and Portuguese (in Brazil).\n\nAs an author, Siemel had been writing articles for various outdoor magazines, including \"National Geographic\". In 1949, Sasha and Edith co-wrote the book \"Jungle Wife\", an account of family life in the jungle. He penned his autobiography,\"Tigrero\", in 1953. It was to be made into a movie by director Samuel Fuller. Instead, Tigrero is the subject of a 1994 documentary by Mika Kaurismäki. \"Tigrero: A Film That Was Never Made\" featured Fuller and Jim Jarmusch visiting the proposed Amazon locations of the film. In 1954, Siemel's book \"Jungle Fury\" was published. (\"Jungle Fury\" is the same book as \"Tigrero\" but retitled for the UK.)\n\nSiemel was interviewed by journalist Charles Collingwood for the \"Adventure\" series produced by the American Museum of Natural History and broadcast on the CBS television network in 1953. The family returned to Brazil briefly in 1959, when Sashino was thirteen years old. His adventure is told in the 1965 book \"Sashino\".\nIn 1963,The Sasha Siemel Museum and Store opened in Perkiomenville, Pennsylvania, in a century-old former story mill located on the Perkiomen Creek. The museum housed Siemel's collection of hunting trophies, works of art, curios, minerals, shells, coins, weapons, Indian utensils and many other items. \"Among the most interesting of the displays are Sasha Siemel's mementos of his many years of daring adventures and explorations as the only white man to hunt jaguars armed with a hand-made spear. Here are the trophies of many exciting hunts and the equipment used in hunting and capturing jaguars.\" Museum admission was 75 cents for adults and 25 cents for children. The museum closed in 1969 after Siemel's last trip to the Pantanal, in which he guided a group of geologists. Sasha Siemel died in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, in 1970 at the age of 80 .\n\n\n\n\nSEGMENT 1: Spear Hunting Jaguars. Charles Collingwood, narrator of the Adventure series, interviews Sasha Siemel, a professional hunter for 35 years who makes his living spear hunting jaguars for cattle ranchers in South America. Siemel, who has lectured at the AMNH, shows films of various forms of wildlife around his home in Matto Grosso, Brazil, and also lets the viewers see his hunting activities: capturing a cub in the jungle and spearing a jaguar. (Jaguars are the largest cats in the New World.) Siemel has killed over 300 jaguars, but only 31 by spear. Siemel demonstrates in the studio the movements of a spear hunter and shows some of his own hand-made spears to the studio while discussing their construction techniques.\nFilm Collection no. 37 \nPublisher New York : American Museum of Natural History : CBS, 1953.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31534267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31534267", "title": "Sentry box", "text": "Sentry box\n\nA sentry box is a small shelter with an open front in which a sentry or person on guard duty may stand to be sheltered from the weather. Many boxes are decorated in national colours.\n\nThe sentry box at the entrance to Buckingham Palace features in the poem of the same name by A. A. Milne in the collection \"When We Were Very Young\" and in the illustration by E. H. Shepard which accompanied it.\n\n"}
{"id": "38880889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38880889", "title": "T. W. Shannon", "text": "T. W. Shannon\n\nTahrohon Wayne Shannon (born February 24, 1978) is an American politician from Oklahoma. Shannon was elected to the Oklahoma House of Representatives from his hometown of Lawton in 2006. In a ceremony on January 8, 2013, Shannon took the oath of office to be Oklahoma’s first African-American Speaker of the House. Shannon stepped down as the Speaker of the House to run for the Republican nomination in the special Senate election to succeed U.S. Senator Tom Coburn.\n\nDespite Tea Party support and endorsements that included U.S. Senator Ted Cruz and former Governor Sarah Palin, Shannon lost the Republican nomination for the Senate to U.S. Representative James Lankford by almost 20 points.\n\nBorn in Oklahoma on February 24, 1978, Shannon earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in communications from Cameron University and holds a Juris Doctor from Oklahoma City University Law School. He worked as a field representative for former Congressman J. C. Watts a decade ago and served in the same position for Congressman Tom Cole the following two years. An enrolled member of the Chickasaw Nation, he worked as the chief administrative officer for Chickasaw Nation Enterprises.\n\nShannon attends Bethlehem Baptist Church in Lawton. He met his wife, Devon (Murray), at Cameron University and married her in 2001. They have two children, a daughter and son. Today, he operates a home-based public relations business.\n\nShannon was first elected to the Oklahoma House of Representatives in 2006, beating opponent Janice Drewry in the general election. He rose to leadership in the state House, where he served as deputy majority whip in his first term, chaired the transportation committee in his second term and was elected speaker-designate in his third term. On January 8, 2013, Shannon took the oath of office to be the Speaker of the Oklahoma House of Representatives.\n\nHe has advocated for identifying and selling off state-owned properties that were not being fully utilized. Shannon sponsored an eight-year plan to divert state income tax revenue to repairing Oklahoma’s structurally deficient bridges.\n\nAs Speaker, Shannon authored legislation to create a long-term plan to address the maintenance of state-owned properties and consolidate property management entities.\n\nThe first sale under the program to sell off state-owned properties was the sale of a former studio for the state public television station for $130,000. The next properties up for sale are a townlot in Buffalo and 5.58 acres in Marietta.\n\nShannon advocated a controversial measure to require Oklahoma recipients of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps) to perform at least 35 hours of work activities or be denied aid. The work requirement was scaled back after the cost of providing job training to SNAP recipients became clear.\n\nGOPAC, an organization whose mission it is to support up-and-coming Republican leaders, added Shannon to its national advisory board in 2013.\n\nHouse District 62 encompasses Lawton, Oklahoma and its surrounding communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "40070259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40070259", "title": "The Wanderer (criminal)", "text": "The Wanderer (criminal)\n\nTerje Larsen (22 August 1958 – 10 May 2018), known as \"The Wanderer\" (), was a Norwegian convicted serial burglar. Convicted of 664 burglaries, but suspected of carrying out several thousand, he has been described as a legend in Norwegian criminal history. Since the beginning of the 1980s, Larsen wandered throughout the country, burglarizing hundreds of cabins and lodges, often spending several nights in the process, all the while avoiding law enforcement. He was named one of Norway's most notorious criminals.\n\nLarsen was born on 22 August 1958, in a Gypsy family in Sandviken, a neighborhood in Bergen, and has four siblings. Old acquaintances describes the family as being very interested in recreational activities, spending a lot of time outdoors. The children learned early to survive in the mountains. They could hunt, fish, and make \"anything with their hands.\" And they learned to hike and trek through the forests.\n\nIn addition to outdoor activities, Larsen had a great passion for football, and was once expected to become a professional footballer. He played as a winger with IL Sandviken. After school, he went to Copenhagen and joined the Danish club Fremad Amager, but soon dropped out and started living on the streets.\n\nAfter returning to Bergen from Copenhagen in the late 1970s, he found himself homeless and jobless. He soon started breaking into multiple cabins, receiving his first criminal conviction in 1979. He continued burglarizing however, first in the vicinity around Bergen, before moving to Voss and Hardanger. Here he would raid the area and gather large depots of stolen goods. On 20 July 1989, he left Bergen with his cousin and friend Svend Dahle, and moved to eastern Norway. One year later, on 3 August 1990, the two were raiding a cottage in Tolga in Østerdalen when, both drunk after having raided the cottage's alcohol store, they started fighting. Larsen left the cottage, and when he came back he found the cottage burned down and Dahle dead inside it. Larsen was charged and convicted of involuntary manslaughter, but was later released on parole.\n\nAfter receiving thirteen convictions throughout the 1990s for over 450 burglaries, he was arrested again in October 2000 and charged with 221 new counts of burglary, and was subsequently sentenced to three years in prison. One year later, in late April 2001, he escaped from prison while on temporary parole. After slipping away into the forest, he immediately embarked upon a massive burglary-spree. During the next four months, Larsen robbed 60 cabins in Ringsaker, over 50 cabins in Stor-Elvdal, 25 cabins in Alvdal and Folldal, as well as over 30 cabins on around Mount Dovre. By mid-August, the search for Larsen had turned into a large manhunt, involving the police, hunters, cabin owners and local volunteers, all scouring the forests and wilderness and conducting 24-hour patrols of popular hiking areas, searching for any trace of the notorious criminal.\n\nOn 19 August, after receiving dozens of reports of forced entries, Norwegian police started plotting Larsen's itinerary on the map. Police detectives read the terrain and calculated Larsen's likely next step. They then arranged for police units to stay one step ahead of him. The plan worked, and they managed to track Larsen down when a police patrol found him walking on the mountainous border between Lom and Skjåk. He was handcuffed and escorted under heavy guard a few kilometers through the steep and difficult terrain to the nearest road, before being transported back to prison in Hønefoss. On 23 August 2005, Larsen was again released on probation, but once again he disappeared into the woods. Almost immediately after, police were flooded with reports about break-ins in lodges and cottages throughout Buskerud county. After receiving a tip-off, Larsen was apprehended on 10 October. He confessed to having burglarized 70 cabins in Sigdal, Modum, Øvre Eiker and Ringerike. He was sentenced to a further 2 years and 6 months in February the next year.\n\nLarsen was subsequently incarcerated in Ringerike Prison. In 2007, he was brutally assaulted by a fellow inmate after an altercation, causing him to suffer a cerebral hemorrhage, requiring life-saving surgery.\n\nAfter being released from prison some time after 2008, he spent some time at a psychiatric hospital, being treated for anxiety and depression. Larsen spent many years out of the public eye, without committing serious offenses. On 23 July 2013 however, when the Kirkvoll family entered their mountain lodge at Geilo they found it broken into and vandalized. They also found Larsen heavily intoxicated sleeping in one of the bedrooms. When they confronted him, he introduced himself before running out and disappearing into the nearby woods. On 31 July, he was arrested outside Geilo, and subsequently confessed to seven additional break-ins.\n\nAlthough convicted 14 times of 664 separate break-ins, he is suspected of carrying out thousands. This is due to his modus operandi remaining unchanged throughout the years. After breaking into an unoccupied cabin or lodge, Larsen would typically live there for several nights, drinking all of the alcohol he could find (Larsen was a long-time alcoholic, and was a recovering drug-addict) as well as eating all of the food.\n\nOwners have also described scenes of vomit and urine, while leaving a \"signature\" of excrement on the living room floor was considered Larsen's trademark. He also typically stole outdoors-equipment such as sleeping bags and clothing, which he needed for wandering the wilderness.\n"}
{"id": "5716380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5716380", "title": "Tim Page (music critic)", "text": "Tim Page (music critic)\n\nTim Page (born October 11, 1954) is a writer, editor, music critic, producer and professor. He is a Pulitzer Prize-winning music critic, the editor and biographer of the American author Dawn Powell, and the chronicler of his own experiences growing up with undiagnosed Asperger syndrome.\n\nPage was born in San Diego, California. He grew up in Storrs, Connecticut, where his father, Ellis Batten Page, was a professor of education at the University of Connecticut. In 1967, he was the subject of a short documentary, \"A Day With Timmy Page\", that chronicled his early interest in filmmaking.\n\nPage moved to New York in 1975, attended the Mannes College The New School for Music for two years, and then transferred to Columbia University. By the time of his graduation in 1979, Page was writing for the arts magazine \"Soho News\" and other publications and hosting a contemporary music program on the Columbia radio station, WKCR. In 1981, he began an 11-year association with WNYC-FM, where he presented an afternoon program that broadcast interviews with composers and musicians, including Aaron Copland, Virgil Thomson, Philip Glass and Steve Reich. An interview with Glenn Gould, comparing the pianist's two versions of Bach's \"Goldberg Variations\", was released as part of a three-CD set entitled \"A State of Wonder: The Complete Goldberg Variations 1955 & 1981\" in 2002. In 1982, Page joined \"The New York Times\", where he was a music writer and culture reporter until 1987, and he became chief music critic of \"Newsday\" in 1987.\n\nPage was appointed the chief classical music critic of \"The Washington Post\" in 1995, and in 1997 he was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Criticism for what the Pulitzer board called his \"lucid and illuminating music criticism\"; in the preceding year he had written subjects that included the decline of classical music recordings and the position of the violin section in the orchestra. He has also written widely on film and literature for the \"Post\" and elsewhere. Page edited works of Dawn Powell, beginning in the 1990s, and wrote a biography of the author, \"Dawn Powell: A Biography\" (1998). He later edited and annotated the Library of America's two-volume collection of Powell's work published in 2001.\n\nIn 1993, Page served as the first executive producer for BMG Catalyst, a short-lived record label. Projects included \"Spiked\", an album of music by Spike Jones with liner notes by Thomas Pynchon; \"Memento Bittersweet\", an album of music by Chris DeBlasio, Kevin Oldham, Lee Gannon and other composers; \"Night of the Mayas\", the first CD devoted entirely to orchestral works by Silvestre Revueltas, Mexico's leading composer; two solo recital discs by violinist Maria Bachmann and several others. Bruce Brubaker recounted how Page introduced him to Philip Glass.\n\nPage has also produced concerts at venues ranging from Carnegie Hall to New York's Mudd Club. From 1999 to 2001, he was the artistic advisor and creative chair for the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra. He has helped launch revivals of the writings of Sigrid Undset and Robert Green Ingersoll, and he wrote an appreciation of the late singer-songwriter Judee Sill, whom Page considers \"an artist of extraordinary gifts.\n\nOn solo careers for child artists, Page has written skeptically, calling them \"unwarranted exposure\", and writing \"the cult of the prodigy has always struck me as one of the most debased aspects of the music world\". He also wrote: \"I mistrust the \"cute kid\" brigade for two principal reasons: It is deeply exploitative and often ruinous to young artists, and it transforms age ... into a liability for more seasoned players.\" On the other hand he was an early champion of Midori Gotō, about whom he wrote a profile. Page has also written on Frederica von Stade, Magnetic Fields and High Llamas.\n\nIn November 2007 Page sent an e-mail from his \"Post\" account in response to an unsolicited press release about former Washington mayor Marion Barry's views concerning a hospital. Page's e-mail read: \"Must we hear about it every time this crack addict attempts to rehabilitate himself with some new – and typically half-witted – political grandstanding? ... I cannot think of anything the useless Marion Barry could do that would interest me in the slightest, up to and including overdose.\" Page apologized but claimed that Barry's aide had been rude to him in a previous request to be taken off the e-mail list. The aide denied any previous contact with Page.\n\nAfter leaving the \"Post\" in 2007, Page was named a professor of journalism and music at the University of Southern California. He currently lives in South Los Angeles, California. In 2015, he was appointed \"Visiting Scholar in Residence\" at Oberlin College.\n\nIn August 2007 Page revealed in \"The New Yorker\" that he had been diagnosed with Asperger syndrome, \"in the course of a protracted effort to identify – and, if possible, alleviate – my lifelong unease\". His book-length memoir \"Parallel Play\" was published by Doubleday in September 2009 and is about his experience growing up with the disorder. \"Page does not glorify or mythologize his condition, nor does he render a portrait of a soul victimized by circumstance\", Samantha Dunn wrote in her review for the \"Los Angeles Times\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33188286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33188286", "title": "Titusz Dugovics", "text": "Titusz Dugovics\n\nTitusz Dugovics or Titus Dugović (; * ? ; † 21 July 1456) was a mythical Hungarian soldier of Croatian or Serbian ethnicity who was stationed during the Siege of Belgrade by the Ottoman Empire's forces in Belgrade. However, the historical truth of his existence is in some doubt, because all known records that describe him are of highly questionable veracity.\n\nNándorfehérvár (Belgrade) was at this time under the command of Hunyadi. From 4 to 22 July 1456, Nándorfehérvár was besieged by the Sultan Mehmed II. After ongoing, fierce battles, Ottoman troops attacked the city walls on 21 July, and a Janissary succeeded, according to legend, to climb a turret and momentarily hoist the Ottoman banner. It was immediately overthrown by soldiers in the same moment that Dugovics grabbed the bearer. As a result, both Dugovics and the standard-bearer plunged from the walls to their deaths.\n\nThis heroic act was significant in the repulse of the Ottomans and honours the memory of the defenders of Nándorfehérvár.\n\nIn his study, historian Tibor Szőcs claims Titusz Dugovics did not exist. A familiar figure in Hungarian history, Dugovics is the embodiment of anti-Ottoman resistance and self-sacrifice. This heroic deed by him has served as the subject of numerous works of literature and art since the middle of the 19th century, and several streets in Hungary have been named after him.\n\nNevertheless, an analysis of the available sources proves that the story cannot be considered as historically accurate. The heroic act was first documented in Antonio Bonfini's chronicle written at the end of the 15th century, where an anonymous Hungarian fighter is mentioned. The same story is told by both Bonfini and the Serbian Konstantin Mihailović, in relation to the Siege of Jajce in 1464, featuring an unnamed soldier as well. Early modern-era Czech historical literature by Jan Dubravius also refers to the hero of Belgrade/Nándorfehérvár as being unknown, but defining his nationality as Czech.\n\nFrom the end of the 18th century, with the forming of Hungarian national consciousness, the valiant soldier had been regarded as a national hero and role model. Imre Dugovics, a member of the Western Hungarian noble family of Croatian origin, took advantage of that. In 1821, by means of three false documents, he attempted to verify that the anonymous fighter had been an ancestor of his family, called Titusz Dugovics. The name was made known to the public by Gábor Döbrentei, a recognised scholar of the period, who had been deceived by the false documents, and published them in study. Thus, Titusz Dugovics and his story soon became (and have ever since remained) a part of Hungarian historical consciousness, although his character should not be considered more than early-19th-century fiction. The only element of the story that may be accepted as authentic is that of the unknown soldier described by Bonfini and Konstantin.\n\n"}
{"id": "9174122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9174122", "title": "Vivian Cheruiyot", "text": "Vivian Cheruiyot\n\nVivian Jepkemoi Cheruiyot (born 11 September 1983) is a Kenyan long-distance runner who specialises in track and cross country running, olympic champion in 5000 metres event. She represented Kenya at the 2000 Summer Olympics, the 2008 Summer Olympics, the 2012 Summer Olympics and the 2016 Summer Olympics, winning a silver medal at the 5000 m and bronze medal at the 10000 m at the 2012 Olympics, silver medal at the 10000 m and gold medal at the 5000 m at the 2016 Olympics, setting the new Olympic record in 5000 m event. Cheruiyot won a silver medal in the 5000 metres at the 2007 World Championships in Athletics and became the world champion in the event at the 2009 edition, repeating this achievement at the 2011 World Championships, where she doubled up by winning the 10000 m.\n\nAfter taking a silver at the 2010 IAAF World Indoor Championships, she won a number of outdoor titles that year, becoming African champion, Commonwealth Games champion and IAAF Continental Cup champion, as well as winning the 2010 IAAF Diamond League title.\n\nShe holds the Kenyan record and Commonwealth record for the 5000 m with her best time of 14:20.89, which was set at the DN Galan in 2011.\n\nCheruiyot is trained by Ricky Simms. She was born near Keiyo in the Rift Valley Province, coming from the same village as another female runner Alice Timbilili.\n\nHer breakthrough year came in 1999: at the age of fifteen she took the junior silver medal at the 1999 IAAF World Cross Country Championships behind Werknesh Kidane. At the 1999 World Youth Championships in Athletics she won the bronze medal in the 3000 metres. She earned a senior call-up for the 1999 All-Africa Games, where she managed a bronze medal in the 5000 metres. She became the junior champion at the 2000 IAAF World Cross Country Championships. She gained selection for the 2000 Olympic Games and reached the 5000 m final after setting personal bests in the qualifying rounds. She was much slower in the final and was the last runner to finish.\n\nVivian Cheruiyot won the silver medal at the 5000 m final of the 2007 World Championships at Osaka in 14:58.50, behind Meseret Defar (14:57.91).\n\nIn early 2009 she broke the Kenyan 3000 metres indoor record (8:30.53) in Birmingham and won the World's Best 10K race in Puerto Rico. In May she won the Great Manchester Run 10K race. Cheruiyot won the women's 5000 m at the 2009 World Championships in Berlin with a time of 14 minutes 58.33 seconds, while countrywoman Sylvia Kibet took the silver. She closed the track season with a 3000 m silver and a 5000 m bronze medal at the 2009 IAAF World Athletics Final. She won the 2009 New Year's Eve San Silvestre Vallecana race.\n\nShe retained her World's Best 10K title in 2010. An appearance at the 2010 IAAF World Indoor Championships resulted in a silver medal in the 3000 m behind Meseret Defar. She headed the Kenyan 5000 m challenge at the 2010 African Championships in Athletics in Nairobi and beat Defar on this occasion to take the African title. After this, her main focus of the year was the 2010 IAAF Diamond League. She took victories in the 5000 m at the Meeting Areva and Memorial van Damme and was elected the inaugural Diamond League Trophy winner for the event on overall points. She defeated Sentayehu Ejigu at the 2010 IAAF Continental Cup to take the 5000 m gold medal for Africa. Another gold medal in the event came at the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi, where she headed a Kenyan podium sweep with Sylvia Kibet and Ines Chenonge. She returned to Kenya to train and took an 8 km win at the Tuskys Cross Country meeting. She ended the year on a high note with a win at the BOclassic 5K race on New Year's Eve.\n\nCheruiyot began preparing for the World Cross Country Championships in January 2011 and came third at the Great Edinburgh Cross Country before overhauling Linet Masai to win the Cross de Itálica in Seville. A second-place finish at the Kenyan Cross Country Championships guaranteed her a place in the Kenyan squad and, in contrast to her successes on the track, she was looking to win her first cross country medal on the world stage. Her rival Masai led the initial charge at the 2011 IAAF World Cross Country Championships, but Cheruiyot broke away on the final lap to secure the gold medal and lead Kenya to the women's team title.\n\nShe started 2012 with a win at the World's Best 10K and improved her best on the roads to 30:47 minutes. She opened the 2012 Diamond League circuit with narrow wins ahead of Meseret Defar, first in the 3000 m in Doha then over 5000 m in Rome. She guaranteed her place at the Olympics by winning the 10,000 m trial in Nairobi in June. At the Olympics, she won a silver medal in the 5000 metres and a bronze medal at the 10000 metres.\n\nIn 2018, she won the 2018 London Marathon with a time of 2:18:31.\n\nShe finished second in the 2018 New York City Marathon, finishing in 2:26:02 far behind winner Mary Keitany in 2:22:38 and close behind Vivian Cheruiyot who finished in 2:26:02, and 22 seconds ahead of Shalane Flanagan who finished in 2:26:24.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10190734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10190734", "title": "William White (American football)", "text": "William White (American football)\n\nWilliam White (born February 19, 1966) from Powell, Ohio is a former American football safety who played eleven seasons in the National Football League from 1988-1998. He started in Super Bowl XXXIII for the Atlanta Falcons. He now lives in Ohio with one son and one daughter.\n\n"}
