{"id": "19748905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19748905", "title": "African People's Convention", "text": "African People's Convention\n\nThe African People's Convention is a South African political party formed by Themba Godi, former deputy leader of the Pan-Africanist Congress of Azania via floor-crossing legislation, on 4 September 2007. Godi defected along with the PAC's only two provincial representatives, Eastern Cape MPL Zingisa Mkabile and Gauteng MPL Malesela Ledwaba. Godi is the current leader of the APC in parliament. The party retained its seat in the National Assembly in the 2009 elections, although it lost both of its representatives in the provincial legislatures of Gauteng and Eastern Cape. \n\nIt retained its seat in the 2014 election.\n\nLike the PAC, the party's ideology officially appeals to \"Africanists, Pan Africanists and socialists\".\n\n! Election\n! Total votes\n! Share of vote\n! Seats \n! Government\n! \"2007 Floor-crossing\"\n! 2009\n! 2014\n\n! rowspan=2 | Election\n! colspan=2 | Eastern Cape\n! colspan=2 | Free State\n! colspan=2 | Gauteng\n! colspan=2 | Kwazulu-Natal\n! colspan=2 | Limpopo\n! colspan=2 | Mpumalanga\n! colspan=2 | North-West\n! colspan=2 | Northern Cape\n! colspan=2 | Western Cape\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! % !! Seats\n! 2009\n! 2014\n\n! Election\n! Votes\n! 2016\n\n"}
{"id": "2442894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2442894", "title": "Alpha wave", "text": "Alpha wave\n\nAlpha waves are neural oscillations in the frequency range of 7.5–12.5 Hz arising from synchronous and coherent (in phase or constructive) electrical activity of thalamic pacemaker cells in humans. They are also called Berger's wave after the founder of EEG.\n\nAlpha waves are one type of brain waves detected either by electroencephalography (EEG) or magnetoencephalography (MEG), and can be quantified using quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG). They predominantly originate from the occipital lobe during wakeful relaxation with closed eyes. Alpha waves are reduced with open eyes, drowsiness and sleep. Historically, they were thought to represent the activity of the visual cortex in an idle state. More recent papers have argued that they inhibit areas of the cortex not in use, or alternatively that they play an active role in network coordination and communication. Occipital alpha waves during periods of eyes closed are the strongest EEG brain signals.\n\nAn alpha-like variant called mu (μ) can be found over the motor cortex (central scalp) that is reduced with movement, or the intention to move. Alpha waves seem not to appear until three years of age.\n\nAlpha waves were discovered by German neurologist Hans Berger, most famous for his invention of the EEG. Alpha waves were among the first waves documented by Berger, along with beta waves, and he displayed an interest in \"alpha blockage\", the process by which alpha waves decrease and beta waves increase upon a subject opening their eyes. This distinction earned the alpha wave the alternate title of \"Berger's Wave\".\n\nBerger took a cue from Ukrainian physiologist Vladimir Pravdich-Neminsky, who used a string galvanometer to create a photograph of the electrical activity of a dog's brain. Using similar techniques, Berger confirmed the existence of electrical activity in the human brain. He first did this by presenting a stimulus to hospital patients with skull damage and measuring the electrical activity in their brains. Later he ceased the stimulus method and began measuring the natural rhythmic electrical cycles in the brain. The first natural rhythm he documented was what would become known as the alpha wave. Berger was very thorough and meticulous in his data-gathering, but despite his brilliance, he did not feel confident enough to publish his discoveries until at least five years after he had made them. In 1929, he published his first findings on alpha waves in the journal \"Archiv für Psychiatrie\". He was originally met with derision for his EEG technique and his subsequent alpha and beta wave discoveries. His technique and findings did not gain widespread acceptance in the psychological community until 1937, when he gained the approval of the famous physiologist Lord Adrian, who took a particular interest in alpha waves.\n\nAlpha waves again gained recognition in the early 1960s and 1970s with the creation of a biofeedback theory relating to brain waves (see below). Such biofeedback, referred to as a kind of neurofeedback, relating to alpha waves is the conscious elicitation of alpha brainwaves by a subject. Two researchers in the United States explored this concept through unrelated experiments. Joe Kamiya, of the University of Chicago, discovered that some individuals had the conscious ability to recognize when they were creating alpha waves, and could increase their alpha activity. These individuals were motivated through a reward system from Kamiya. The second progenitor of biofeedback is Barry Sterman, from the University of California, Los Angeles. He was working with monitoring brain waves in cats and found that, when the cats were trained to withhold motor movement, they released SMR, or mu, waves, a wave similar to alpha waves. Using a reward system, he further trained these cats to enter this state more easily. Later, he was approached by the United States Air Force to test the effects of a jet fuel that was known to cause seizures in humans. Sterman tested the effects of this fuel on the previously-trained cats, and discovered that they had a higher resistance to seizures than non-trained cats.\n\nAlpha wave biofeedback has gained interest for having some successes in humans for seizure suppression and for treatment of depression.\n\nSome researchers posit that there are at least two forms of alpha waves, which may have different functions in the wake-sleep cycle.\n\nAlpha waves are present at different stages of the wake-sleep cycle. The most widely researched is during the relaxed mental state, where the subject is at rest with eyes closed, but is not tired or asleep. This alpha activity is centered in the occipital lobe, and is presumed to originate there, although there has been recent speculation that it instead has a thalamic origin. This wave begins appearing at around four months, and is initially a frequency of 4 waves per second. The mature alpha wave, at 10 waves per second, is firmly established by age 3.\n\nThe second occurrence of alpha wave activity is during REM sleep. As opposed to the awake form of alpha activity, this form is located in a frontal-central location in the brain. The purpose of alpha activity during REM sleep has yet to be fully understood. Currently, there are arguments that alpha patterns are a normal part of REM sleep, and for the notion that it indicates a semi-arousal period. It has been suggested that this alpha activity is inversely related to REM sleep pressure.\n\nIt has long been believed that alpha waves indicate a wakeful period during sleep. This has been attributed to studies where subjects report non-refreshing sleep and have EEG records reporting high levels of alpha intrusion into sleep. This occurrence is known as alpha wave intrusion. However, it is possible that these explanations may be misleading, as they only focus on alpha waves being generated from the occipital lobe.\n\nAlpha wave intrusion occurs when alpha waves appear with non-REM sleep when delta activity is expected. It is hypothesized to be associated with fibromyalgia, although the study may be inadequate due to a small sampling size.\n\nDespite this, alpha wave intrusion has not been significantly linked to any major sleep disorder, including fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and major depression. However, it is common in chronic fatigued patients, and may amplify the effects of other sleep disorders.\n\nFollowing this lapse-of-attention line of thought, a recent study indicates that alpha waves may be used to predict mistakes. In it, MEGs measured increases of up to 25% in alpha brain wave activity before mistakes occurred. This study used common sense: alpha waves indicate idleness, and mistakes are often made when a person is doing something automatically, or \"on auto-pilot\", and not paying attention to the task they are performing. After the mistake was noticed by the subject, there was a decrease in alpha waves as the subject began paying more attention. This study hopes to promote the use of wireless EEG technology on employees in high-risk fields, such as air traffic controlling, to monitor alpha wave activity and gauge the attention level of the employee.\n\nAs demonstrated by Adrian Upton , it is possible for extraneous sources (ambient fluctuations detected with a mound of Jell-O in Upton's experiments) to cause signals to appear on an EEG readout, causing false signals to be interpreted as healthy alpha waves. This finding suggests that it is possible that a non-flat EEG could lead to the interpretation that a patient is still living when in fact he or she is long dead.\n\nCecil Adams from The Straight Dope discusses this scenario:\n\nSometimes it's claimed Jell-O brainwaves are identical to a healthy adult's. That's clearly a stretch, but the Jell-O EEG readings do look pretty similar to a normal human alpha rhythm. Alpha waves are observed when a patient is awake and resting with eyes closed, and in some kinds of sleep and reversible coma. True, the Jell-O waves are a little slower and of much lower amplitude, barely within normal human limits, but that doesn't tell you much by itself. Hypoxia, encephalitis, and other medical conditions can cause reduced frequency and amplitude, as can drug use.\n\n"}
{"id": "35020307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35020307", "title": "Apatrapya", "text": "Apatrapya\n\nApatrapya (Sanskrit, also \"apatrāpya\"; Pali: \"ottappa\"; Tibetan Wylie: \"khrel yod pa\") is a Buddhist term translated as \"decorum\" or \"shame\". It is defined as shunning unwholesome actions so as to not be reproached by others of good character. It is one of the virtuous mental factors within the Abhidharma teachings. \n\nThe Abhidharma-samuccaya states: \n\nThe difference between hri (self-respect) and \"apatrapya\" (decorum) is that \"hri\" means to refrain from unwholesome actions due to one's own conscious, while \"apatrapya\" means to refrain from unwholesome actions to avoid being reproached by others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4031910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4031910", "title": "Boetius of Dacia", "text": "Boetius of Dacia\n\nBoetius de Dacia, OP (also spelled Boethius de Dacia) was a 13th-century Danish philosopher. \n\nThe rendering of his name \"Danske Bo\" (\"Bo the Dane\") into Medieval Latin as \"Boetius de Dacia\" stems from the fact that the toponym \"Dania\", meaning Denmark, was occasionally confused with \"Dacia\" during the Middle Ages.\n\nBoetius was born in the first half of the 13th century. Not much is known of his early life. The attempt to connect him to known persons from Denmark or Sweden has been unsuccessful. All that is known is that he went to France to teach philosophy at the University of Paris. At the university, he associated with Siger of Brabant. He continued to teach for some time as arts masters rather than quickly moving on to study in the theology faculty or finding non-academic employment. He shared this unusual career path with Siger and others like Roger Bacon and Jean Buridan. He was condemned by Stephen Tempier in 1277 for being a leading member of the Averroist movement. Boetius fled Paris with Siger and appealed to Pope Nicholas III. He was detained at the pontifical curia at Orvieto. He went on to join the Dominicans in Denmark.\n\nBoetius was a follower of Aristotle and Averroes. He wrote on logic, natural philosophy, metaphysics, and ethics, though some of his works have not survived. His central position was that philosophy had to follow where the arguments led, regardless of their conflict with religious faith. For him, philosophy was the supreme human activity, and in this world only philosophers attained wisdom. In his book \"On the Highest Good, or On the Life of the Philosopher\" he offers a fervently Aristotelian description of man's highest good as the rational contemplation of truth and virtue. Among the controversial conclusions that he reached are the impossibility of creation \"ex nihilo\", the eternity of the world and of the human race, and that there could be no resurrection of the dead.\n\nDespite his radical views, Boetius remained a Christian; he attempted to reconcile his religious beliefs with his philosophical positions by assigning the investigation of the world and of human nature to philosophy, while to religion he assigned supernatural revelation and divine miracles. He was condemned for holding the doctrine of double truth, though he was careful to avoid calling philosophical conclusions that ran contrary to religion true \"simpliciter\": in each branch of knowledge, one must be careful to qualify one's conclusions. The conclusions that the philosopher reaches are true \"according to natural causes and principles\" (\"De Aeternitate Mundi\", p. 351).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27145617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27145617", "title": "British Society for Ethical Theory", "text": "British Society for Ethical Theory\n\nThe British Society for Ethical Theory is a philosophical organisation dedicated to philosophical research in normative ethics, meta-ethics, and moral psychology. The society holds an annual conference; and facilitates the exchange of information, drafts of papers, and reviews among its members.\n\nThe society was founded by David McNaughton. The current president of the society is Simon Kirchin from the University of Kent.\n\n"}
{"id": "17130181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17130181", "title": "Brynjólfur Bjarnason", "text": "Brynjólfur Bjarnason\n\nBrynjólfur Bjarnason (26 May 1898 – 16 April 1989) was an Icelandic communist politician. He became a student at the University of Copenhagen, and in 1923 he became a communist during a stay in Berlin. After returning to Iceland, he became a teacher. In 1930 he became the chairman of the Communist Party of Iceland when it was founded.\n\nBjarnason attended the 2nd congress of the Communist International in 1920 and the 5th congress in 1924, as the representative of the Icelandic League of young communists. In 1935 he represented the Icelandic party at the 7th congress of the Communist International. In 1938 he became general secretary of the Popular Unity Party - Socialist Party (formed through the unification of communists and socialists).\n\nBjarnason was elected to the Icelandic parliament Alþingi in 1937 and was a member until 1956. He served as Minister of Education 1944–1947.\n\nAfter his retirement from politics he wrote several books on philosophy.\n"}
{"id": "18301050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18301050", "title": "Byzantine rhetoric", "text": "Byzantine rhetoric\n\nByzantine rhetoric — of the Byzantine Empire — followed largely the precepts of ancient Greek rhetoricians, especially those belonging to the Second Sophistic that extended from the time of Augustus through the fifth century CE.\n\nRhetoric was the most important and difficult topic studied in the Byzantine education system, beginning at the \"Pandidakterion\" in early fifth century Constantinople, where the school emphasized the study of rhetoric with eight teaching chairs, five in Greek and three in Latin.\n\nThe hard training of Byzantine rhetoric provided skills and credentials for citizens to attain public office in the imperial service, or posts of authority within the Church.\n"}
{"id": "3717754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3717754", "title": "Causalism", "text": "Causalism\n\nCausalism holds behavior and actions to be the result of previous mental states, such as beliefs, desires, or intentions, rather than from a present conscious will guiding one's actions. Causalism is in accord with how most people have traditionally explained their actions, but critics point out that certain habitual actions such as scratching an itch are only noticed during or after the fact, if at all, making the causalist explanation that such behaviors have a mental antecedent that is not recalled seem ad hoc.\n\n"}
{"id": "12611495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12611495", "title": "Charles F. Chandler", "text": "Charles F. Chandler\n\nCharles Frederick Chandler (December 6, 1836 – August 25, 1925) was an American chemist, best known for his regulatory work in public health, sanitation, and consumer safety in New York City, as well as his work in chemical education—first at Union College and then, for the majority of his career, at Columbia University, where he taught in the Chemical Department, the College of Physicians and Surgeons, and served as the first Dean of Columbia University's School of Mines.\n\nCharles Frederick Chandler was born in Lancaster, Massachusetts on December 6, 1836. His family moved shortly after his birth to New Bedford, Massachusetts, where he spent most of his formative years and engaged in his earliest formal education. As a child he devoted nearly all of his free time to scientific and geological explorations and attending public lectures on scientific subjects. These public lectures at the New Bedford Lyceum, and in particular a series of lectures given by the geologist and naturalist Louis Agassiz, sparked his lifelong interest in science. He was particularly interested in mineralogy and collected rock and mineral samples that he found around his grandfather's Lancaster home.\n\nUpon completion of his studies at New Bedford High School, Chandler spent a year in private study, learning Latin and Greek and conducting chemical experiments in a laboratory he set up in his father's attic to prepare himself for more advanced chemical study. He then left his home in New Bedford and enrolled in the Lawrence Scientific School of Harvard University. While at Harvard he studied Industrial Chemistry, but he was encouraged to continue his studies in Industrial Chemistry and Geology in Germany, which was at the forefront of scientific education at the time. He enrolled in the University of Göttingen in 1854 to study with Friedrich Wöhler, and after studying under Wöhler and working as an assistant in the lab of Heinrich Rose, the father of analytic chemistry, he earned his PhD from the University of Göttingen in 1856.\n\nAfter completing his degree, Chandler returned to the United States to pursue his own scientific career. Upon his return, in 1857, Chandler became the chemical assistant at Professor Charles Joy's laboratory at Union College in Schenectady, New York, and shortly thereafter began to lecture on Mineralogy and Geology at the College as well as manage the laboratory. He became an associate professor at the College in 1857 at the age of 21. Shortly after, he and his younger brother William became members of The Kappa Alpha Society, of which Joy was also a member. He remained at Union College for the next 7 years during which time he ran the chemistry lab and married his first wife, Anna Craig Chandler.\n\nHis tenure at Union College ended in 1864 when Chandler was asked by his former colleague, Professor Joy, to consider taking on the Chair of Chemistry at the newly formed Columbia University School of Mines that Professor Thomas Egleston and General Vinton were attempting to start under Columbia President Barnard. Chandler gladly took the opportunity to move to New York, and begin his long relationship with Columbia University.\n\nThe School of Mines, later to develop into the School of Engineering and Applied Science, consisted at this time of one room in the basement of a Madison Avenue academic building. Within the first year of the School's existence, Chandler took on the position of Dean, and under his leadership in that first year the school moved to a larger four floor building and doubled the number of students enrolled in its program of study. Chandler was to remain dean of the School of Mines for the next 33 years, through its move to its new home on Columbia's Morningside Campus and into Havemeyer Hall, the state-of-the-art Chemistry building that he helped to design and raise funds.\n\nDuring the period he was the organizer of the American Chemical Society and its president from 1881 to 1889.\n\nThough he stepped down as the Dean of the School of Mines in 1897, he continued to teach chemistry at Columbia University until 1910, and proved to be an extremely popular and engaging instructor. One of his former pupils provided the testimony that \"He was the most popular professor at Columbia for the forty-seven years he was active. This was due to his ability to place himself on a level and equality with his hearers, or indeed anyone he met… He was a child among children, a man of science among scientific men, but more particularly, he was a real man among his fellow men.\" This sentiment is echoed in the Columbia College Jester piece that commemorates him upon his retirement, \"Year after year he has taken the entering classes by the hand and led them through a course of Chemistry, Ethics, and Humor so cleverly combined that it has made men of them.\"\n\nThough Chandler is perhaps most associated with the School of Mines, he also, starting in 1867, began lecturing in Chemistry for the New York College of Pharmacy. He acted as president of this school until 1897 when it formalized its relationship to Columbia University and was incorporated as a University Faculty in 1897. He also lectured in Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1872 where he taught chemistry and medical jurisprudence and called for a more rigorous scientific training for medical professionals. In addition to his instructional and administrative duties, Chandler also started a Chemical Museum, later named the Chandler Chemical Museum in his honor, to highlight the accomplishments of modern industrial and analytic chemistry.\n\nWhile Chandler was a very popular instructor, he was not always so popular among his colleagues. He spent much of his time acting as an expert witness in various legal cases and patent disputes, and performed independent consulting work for companies such as Standard Oil. Many of Chandler's colleagues had concerns that Chandler was more focused on his profitable, outside consulting work than he was on his academic and administrative duties.\n\nThough he was not entirely without controversy, Chandler remained an integral part chemical education at Columbia University until 1911 when he finally, after 46 years of service at Columbia and 54 years of college teaching, retired from teaching. Upon retirement he and his second wife Augusta Berard Chandler continued to reside in New York City, but spent more and more time at their summer home in Westhampton and at her family's home in New Hartford, Connecticut, where Chandler died in 1925.\n\nWhile chemical instruction made up much of Charles Chandler's career, he was also an energetic public health advocate and sanitation reformer. His career in public service began in 1866 when the Secretary of the Metropolitan Board of Health asked Chandler to perform some chemical work for the board, ex officio. The Board soon realized the value of having a chemist as part of the organization and later that year Chandler was appointed as chemist to the Board of Health. In 1873 Mayor Havemeyer appointed Chandler to the Presidency of the Metropolitan Board of Health, a position he held until 1883.\n\nHis work with the New York City Municipal Board of Health led to a number of important sanitary reforms in the city. When he began his services on the Board of Health in 1866, 53 out of every 100 deaths in the city were children under the age of 5. He implemented major reforms to improve infant nutrition, including stopping the sale of watered-down milk, and instituted a corps of traveling physicians to tend to the residents of tenements. By the time he left the Board, the child mortality rate had fallen to 46 out of every 100 deaths, an estimated saving of 8000 lives and 5000 children per annum. He was a strong advocate for tenement reform, designing tenement houses that were cleaner and brighter than those most prevalent in the City, and pushing a \"Tenement House Act\" through legislature. This is all in addition to the more mundane tasks of testing household goods such as cosmetics, patent medicine, and wallpaper for toxic and potentially harmful additives. The Board of Health, under his leadership is credited with preventing a cholera epidemic in 1883. He, himself, thought his most important work with the Board of Health was his work in reducing fatal kerosene related accidents through informing the public about the dangers of kerosene with naphtha and gasoline added (making combustible vapors). All in all, Chandler's leadership of the Board of Health marks an important chapter in the history of sanitation in New York.\n\nChandler was very active in professional and social organizations, belonging to several Chemical Clubs and Organizations. While some of his clubs were purely or primarily social, other such as The Chemists' Club, which Chandler founded, were intended to build professional connections among scientists in New York. He also founded the American Chemical Society, and served twice as its president, first in 1881 and again in 1889. He was the president of both the American Section of the Society of Chemical Industry in New York, and the first American president of the parent association, the Society of Chemical Industry in London. In 1870 he and his brother William Henry Chandler, a chemistry professor at Lehigh University, started the journal \"The American Chemist\", the first chemical journal in America. They both edited the journal until it was discontinued in 1877.\n\nHe received a number of honorary degrees, the Gold Medal of the National Institute of Social Sciences, and the prestigious Perkin Medal from the American Section of the Society of Chemical Industry. After he retired from Columbia University, the alumni of that University set up an endowment for the Chandler lectureship and the Chandler Medal in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "244167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244167", "title": "Communal reinforcement", "text": "Communal reinforcement\n\nCommunal reinforcement is a social phenomenon in which a concept or idea is repeatedly asserted in a community, regardless of whether sufficient empirical evidence has been presented to support it. Over time, the concept or idea is reinforced to become a strong belief in many people's minds, and may be regarded by the members of the community as fact. Often, the concept or idea may be further reinforced by publications in the mass media, books, or other means of communication. The phrase \"millions of people can't all be wrong\" is indicative of the common tendency to accept a communally reinforced idea without question, which often aids in the widespread acceptance of factoids. A very similar term to this term is community-reinforcement, which is a behavioral method to stop drug addiction.\n\nThe community-reinforcement approach (CRA) is an alcoholism treatment approach that aims to achieve abstinence by eliminating positive reinforcement for drinking and enhancing positive reinforcement for sobriety. CRA integrates several treatment components, including building the client's motivation to quit drinking, helping the client initiate sobriety, analyzing the client's drinking pattern, increasing positive reinforcement, learning new coping behaviors, and involving significant others in the recovery process. These components can be adjusted to the individual client's needs to achieve optimal treatment outcome. In addition, treatment outcome can be influenced by factors such as therapist style and initial treatment intensity. Several studies have provided evidence for CRA's effectiveness in achieving abstinence. Furthermore, CRA has been successfully integrated with a variety of other treatment approaches, such as family therapy and motivational interviewing, and has been tested in the treatment of other drug abuse.\n\nIn Chris E. Stout's book \"The Psychology of Terrorism: Theoretical Understandings and Perspective\", Stout explains how community reinforcement is present in the psychotic state of terrorists. \"The individual would feel less charged, validated, courageous, sanctified, and zealous, and would feel exposed as an individual.\" It is believed that the group mentality of a terrorist organization solidifies the mission of the group through communal reinforcement. Members are more likely to stay dedicated and follow through with the event of terror if they receive support from fellow terrorist members. An individual might abandon the mission in terror, but with the reinforcement of his peers, a member is more likely to stay involved.\n"}
{"id": "398356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398356", "title": "Corporate social responsibility", "text": "Corporate social responsibility\n\nCorporate social responsibility (CSR, also called corporate sustainability, sustainable business, corporate conscience, corporate citizenship or responsible business) is a type of international private business self-regulation. While once it was possible to describe CSR as an internal organisational policy or a corporate ethic strategy, that time has passed as various international laws have been developed and various organisations have used their authority to push it beyond individual or even industry-wide initiatives. While it has been considered a form of corporate self-regulation for some time, over the last decade or so it has moved considerably from voluntary decisions at the level of individual organisations, to mandatory schemes at regional, national and even transnational levels.\n\nConsidered at the organisational level, CSR is an organisational policy. As such, it must align with and be integrated into a business model to be successful. With some models, a firm's implementation of CSR goes beyond compliance with regulatory requirements, and engages in \"actions that appear to further some social good, beyond the interests of the firm and that which is required by law\". The choices of 'complying' with the law, failing to comply, and 'going beyond' are three distinct strategic organisational choices. While in many areas such as environmental or labor regulations, employers may choose to comply with the law, or go beyond the law, other organisations may choose to flout the law. These organisations are taking on clear legal risks. The nature of the legal risk, however, changes when attention is paid to soft law. Soft law may incur legal liability particularly when businesses make misleading claims about their sustainability or other ethical credentials and practices. Overall, businesses may engage in CSR for strategic or ethical purposes. From a strategic perspective, the aim is to increase long-term profits and shareholder trust through positive public relations and high ethical standards to reduce business and legal risk by taking responsibility for corporate actions. CSR strategies encourage the company to make a positive impact on the environment and stakeholders including consumers, employees, investors, communities, and others. From an ethical perspective, some businesses will adopt CSR policies and practices because of ethical beliefs of senior management. For example, a CEO may believe that harming the environment is ethically objectionable.\n\nProponents argue that corporations increase long-term profits by operating with a CSR perspective, while critics argue that CSR distracts from businesses' economic role. A 2000 study compared existing econometric studies of the relationship between social and financial performance, concluding that the contradictory results of previous studies reporting positive, negative, and neutral financial impact, were due to flawed empirical analysis and claimed when the study is properly specified, CSR has a neutral impact on financial outcomes. Critics questioned the \"lofty\" and sometimes \"unrealistic expectations\" in CSR. or that CSR is merely window-dressing, or an attempt to pre-empt the role of governments as a watchdog over powerful multinational corporations. In line with this critical perspective, political and sociological institutionalists became interested in CSR in the context of theories of globalization, neoliberalism and late capitalism. Some institutionalists viewed CSR as a form of capitalist legitimacy and in particular point out that what began as a social movement against uninhibited corporate power was transformed by corporations into a 'business model' and a 'risk management' device, often with questionable results.\n\nCSR is titled to aid an organization's mission as well as serve as a guide to what the company represents for its consumers. Business ethics is the part of applied ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that can arise in a business environment. ISO 26000 is the recognized international standard for CSR. Public sector organizations (the United Nations for example) adhere to the triple bottom line (TBL). It is widely accepted that CSR adheres to similar principles, but with no formal act of legislation.\n\nSince the 1960s, corporate social responsibility has attracted attention from a range of businesses and stakeholders. A wide variety of definitions have been developed but with little consensus. Part of the problem with definitions has arisen because of the different interests represented. A business person may define CSR as a business strategy, an NGO activist may see it as 'greenwash' while a government official may see it as voluntary regulation.\" In addition, disagreement about the definition will arise from the disciplinary approach.\" For example, while an economist might consider the director's discretion necessary for CSR to be implemented a risk of agency costs, a law academic may consider that discretion to be an appropriate expression of what the law demands from directors.\n\nCorporate social responsibility has recently been defined by Sheehy as \"international private business self-regulation.\" Sheehy examined a range of different disciplinary approaches to defining CSR. The definitions reviewed included the economic definition of \"sacrificing profits,\" a management definition of \"beyond compliance\", institutionalist views of CSR as a \"socio-political movement\" and law's own focus on directors' duties. Further, Sheehy considered Carroll's widely used description of CSR as a pyramid of responsibilities, namely, economic, legal, ethical and philanthropic responsibilities. Importantly, while Carroll was not defining CSR but simply arguing for classification of activities, Sheehy developed a definition differently following the philosophy of science—the branch of philosophy used for defining phenomena.\n\nCarroll 1991 extended corporate social responsibility from the traditional economic and legal responsibility to ethical and philanthropic responsibility in response to the rising concerns on ethical issues in businesses, . This view is reflected in the \"Business Dictionary\" which defines CSR as \"A company's sense of responsibility towards the community and environment (both ecological and social) in which it operates. Companies express this citizenship (1) through their waste and pollution reduction processes, (2) by contributing educational and social programs and (3) by earning adequate returns on the employed resources.\"\n\nMost consumers agree that while achieving business targets, companies should engage in CSR efforts at the same time. Most consumers believe companies doing charity work will receive a positive response. Somerville also found that consumers are loyal and willing to spend more on retailers that support charity. Consumers also believe that retailers selling local products will gain loyalty. Smith (2013) shares the belief that marketing local products will gain consumer trust. However, environmental efforts are receiving negative views given the belief that this would affect customer service. Oppewal et al. (2006) found that not all CSR activities are attractive to consumers. They recommended that retailers focus on one activity. Becker-Olsen (2006) found that if the social initiative done by the company is not aligned with other company goals it will have a negative impact. Mohr et al. (2001) and Groza et al. (2011) also emphasise the importance of reaching the consumer.\n\nSome commentators have identified a difference between the Canadian (Montreal school of CSR), the Continental European and the Anglo-Saxon approaches to CSR. It is said that for Chinese consumers, a socially responsible company makes safe, high-quality products; for Germans it provides secure employment; in South Africa it makes a positive contribution to social needs such as health care and education. And even within Europe the discussion about CSR is very heterogeneous.\n\nA more common approach to CSR is corporate philanthropy. This includes monetary donations and aid given to nonprofit organizations and communities. Donations are made in areas such as the arts, education, housing, health, social welfare and the environment, among others, but excluding political contributions and commercial event sponsorship.\n\nAnother approach to CSR is to incorporate the CSR strategy directly into operations, such as procurement of Fair Trade tea and coffee.\n\nCreating shared value or CSV is based on the idea that corporate success and social welfare are interdependent. A business needs a healthy, educated workforce, sustainable resources and adept government to compete effectively. For society to thrive, profitable and competitive businesses must be developed and supported to create income, wealth, tax revenues and philanthropy. The Harvard Business Review article \"Strategy & Society: The Link between Competitive Advantage and Corporate Social Responsibility\" provided examples of companies that have developed deep linkages between their business strategies and CSR. CSV acknowledges trade-offs between short-term profitability and social or environmental goals, but emphasizes the opportunities for competitive advantage from building a social value proposition into corporate strategy. CSV gives the impression that only two stakeholders are important - shareholders and consumers.\n\nMany companies employ benchmarking to assess their CSR policy, implementation and effectiveness. Benchmarking involves reviewing competitor initiatives, as well as measuring and evaluating the impact that those policies have on society and the environment, and how others perceive competitor CSR strategy.\n\nIn competitive markets cost-benefit analysis of CSR initiatives can be examined using a resource-based view (RBV). According to Barney (1990), \"formulation of the RBV, sustainable competitive advantage requires that resources be valuable (V), rare (R), inimitable (I) and non-substitutable (S).\" A firm introducing a CSR-based strategy might only sustain high returns on their investment if their CSR-based strategy could not be copied (I). However, should competitors imitate such a strategy, that might increase overall social benefits. Firms that choose CSR for strategic financial gain are also acting responsibly.\n\nRBV presumes that firms are bundles of heterogeneous resources and capabilities that are imperfectly mobile across firms. This imperfect mobility can produce competitive advantages for firms that acquire immobile resources. McWilliams and Siegel (2001) examined CSR activities and attributes as a differentiation strategy. They concluded that managers can determine the appropriate level of investment in CSR by conducting cost benefit analysis in the same way that they analyze other investments. Reinhardt (1998) found that a firm engaging in a CSR-based strategy could only sustain an abnormal return if it could prevent competitors from imitating its strategy. \n\nMoreover, when it comes to cost benefit analysis, you should look at Waddock and Graves (1997), who showed that corporate social performance was positively linked to financial performance, meaning that the benefit of being socially responsible outweigh the costs.  McWilliams and Siegel (2000) noted that Waddock and Graves hadn’t taken innovation into account, that companies that did CSR were also very innovative, and that the innovation drove financial performance, not CSR. Hull and Rothenberg (2007) then found that when companies are not innovative, a history of CSR does in fact help financial performance. \n\nInitially, CSR emphasized the official behaviour of individual firms. Later, it expanded to include supplier behaviour and the uses to which products were put and how they were disposed of after they lost value.\n\nIn the 21st century, corporate social responsibility in the supply chain has attracted attention from businesses and stakeholders. Corporations' supply chain is the process by which several organizations including suppliers, customers and logistics providers work together to provide a value package of products and services to the end user, who is the customer.\n\nCorporate social irresponsibility in the supply chain has greatly affected the reputation of companies, leading to a lot of cost to solve the problems. For instance, incidents like the 2013 Savar building collapse, which killed over 1000 people, pushed companies to consider the impacts of their operations on society and environment. On the other side, the horse meat scandal of 2013 in the United Kingdom affected many food retailers, including Tesco, the largest retailer in the United Kingdom, leading to the dismissal of the supplier. Corporate social irresponsibility from both the suppliers and the retailers has greatly affected the stakeholders who lost trust for the affected business entities, and despite the fact that sometimes it's not directly undertaken by the companies, they become accountable to the stakeholders. These surrounding issues have prompted supply chain management to consider the corporate social responsibility context. Wieland and Handfield (2013) suggested that companies need to include social responsibility in their reviews of component quality. They highlighted the use of technology in improving visibility across the supply chain.\n\nCorporate social responsibility includes six types of corporate social initiatives:\n\nAll six of the corporate initiatives are forms of corporate citizenship. However, only some of these CSR activities rise to the level of cause marketing, defined as \"a type of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in which a company's promotional campaign has the dual purpose of increasing profitability while bettering society.\"\n\nCompanies generally do not have a profit motive when participating in corporate philanthropy and community volunteering. On the other hand, the remaining corporate social initiatives can be examples of cause marketing, in which there is both a societal interest and profit motive.\n\nCSR may be based within the human resources, business development or public relations departments of an organisation, or may be a separate unit reporting to the CEO or the board of directors.\n\nAn engagement plan can assist in reaching a desired audience. A corporate social responsibility individual or team plans the goals and objectives of the organization. As with any corporate activity, a defined budget demonstrates commitment and scales the program's relative importance.\n\nSocial accounting is the communication of social and environmental effects of a company's economic actions to particular interest groups within society and to society at large.\n\nSocial accounting emphasizes the notion of corporate accountability. Crowther defines social accounting as \"an approach to reporting a firm's activities which stresses the need for the identification of socially relevant behavior, the determination of those to whom the company is accountable for its social performance and the development of appropriate measures and reporting techniques.\"\nReporting guidelines and standards serve as frameworks for social accounting, auditing and reporting:\n\nIn nations such as France, legal requirements for social accounting, auditing and reporting exist, though international or national agreement on meaningful measurements of social and environmental performance has not been achieved. Many companies produce externally audited annual reports that cover Sustainable Development and CSR issues (\"Triple Bottom Line Reports\"), but the reports vary widely in format, style, and evaluation methodology (even within the same industry). Critics dismiss these reports as lip service, citing examples such as Enron's yearly \"Corporate Responsibility Annual Report\" and tobacco companies' social reports.\n\nIn South Africa, as of June 2010, all companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) were required to produce an integrated report in place of an annual financial report and sustainability report. An integrated report reviews environmental, social and economic performance alongside financial performance. This requirement was implemented in the absence of formal or legal standards. An Integrated Reporting Committee (IRC) was established to issue guidelines for good practice.\n\nOne of the reputable institutions that capital markets turn to for credible sustainability reports is the Carbon Disclosure Project, or CDP.\n\nCorporate social responsibility and its resulting reports and efforts should be verified by the consumer of the goods and services. The accounting, auditing and reporting resources provide a foundation for consumers to verify that their products are socially sustainable. Due to an increased awareness of the need for CSR, many industries have their own verification resources. The include organizations like the Forest Stewardship Council (paper and forest products), International Cocoa Initiative, and Kimberly Process (diamonds). The United Nations also provides frameworks not only for verification, but for reporting of human rights violations in corporate supply chains.\n\nThe rise of ethics training inside corporations, some of it required by government regulation, has helped CSR to spread. The aim of such training is to help employees make ethical decisions when the answers are unclear. The most direct benefit is reducing the likelihood of \"dirty hands\", fines and damaged reputations for breaching laws or moral norms. Organizations see increased employee loyalty and pride in the organization.\n\nCommon CSR actions include:\n\nSocial License to Operate can be determined as a contractual grounds for the legitimacy of activities and projects company is involved in. It refers to the level of support and approval of a company’s activities by its stakeholders. Displaying commitment to CSR is one way to achieve social license, by enhancing a company's reputation.\n\nAs stated in \"Enduring value:\" the Australian minerals industry framework for sustainable development the concept of the 'social license to operate', then defined simply as obtaining and maintaining broad community support and acceptance. Unless a company earns and maintains that license social license holders may intend to block project developments; employees may leave the company for a company that is a better corporate citizen: and companies may be under ongoing legal challenge.\n\nIn research of Requisite Organization Dr Elliott Jaques defines Social License to Operate for the company as the social contract the company has with the social license holders (employees, trade unions, communities, government)  for them to manifest positive intention to support the business short- and long-term objectives by \"“providing managerial leadership that nurtures the social good and also gives the foundation for sustainable growth in organizational results.”\"\n\nThe primary objective for the companies is to obtain and maintain the Social License to Operate. Based on the Requisite Organization research of Dr. Elliott Jaques to achieve this goal a company needs to:\n\nA large body of literature exhorts business to adopt non-financial measures of success (e.g., Deming's Fourteen Points, balanced scorecards). While CSR benefits are hard to quantify, Orlitzky, Schmidt and Rynes found a correlation between social/environmental performance and financial performance.\n\nThe business case for CSR within a company employs one or more of these arguments:\n\n\"People, planet and profit\", also known as the triple bottom line, form one way to evaluate CSR.\n\"People\" refers to fair labour practices, the community and region where the business operates.\n\"Planet\" refers to sustainable environmental practices. Profit is the economic value created by the organization after deducting the cost of all inputs, including the cost of the capital (unlike accounting definitions of profit).\n\nThis measure was claimed to help some companies be more conscious of their social and moral responsibilities. However, critics claim that it is selective and substitutes a company's perspective for that of the community. Another criticism is about the absence of a standard auditing procedure.\n\nThe term was coined by John Elkington in 1994.\n\nA CSR program can be an aid to recruitment and retention, particularly within the competitive graduate student market. Potential recruits often consider a firm's CSR policy. CSR can also help improve the perception of a company among its staff, particularly when staff can become involved through payroll giving, fundraising activities or community volunteering. CSR has been credited with encouraging customer orientation among customer-facing employees.\n\nCSR is known for impacting employee turnover. Several executives suggest that employees are their most valuable asset and that the ability to retain them leads to organization success. Socially responsible activities promote fairness, which in turn generate lower employee turnover. On the other hand, if an irresponsible behavior is demonstrated by a firm, employees may view this behavior as negative. Proponents argue that treating employees well with competitive pay and good benefits is seen as a socially responsible behavior and therefore reduces employee turnover. Executives have a strong desire for building a positive work context that benefits CSR and the company as a whole. This interest is driven particularly by the realization that a positive work environment can result in desirable outcomes such as more favorable job attitudes and increased work performance.\n\nThe IBM Institute for Business Value conducted a survey of 250 business leaders worldwide in 2008. The survey found out that businesses have assimilated a much more strategic view, and that 68% companies reported are utilizing CSR as an opportunity and part of a sustainable growth strategy. The authors noted that while developing and implementing a CSR strategy represents a unique opportunity to benefit the company. However, only 31% of businesses surveyed engaged their employees on the company's CSR objectives and initiatives. The survey's authors also stated that employee engagement on CSR initiatives can be a powerful recruitment and retention tool. As a result, employees tend to discard employers with a bad reputation.\n\nManaging risk is an important executive responsibility. Reputations that take decades to build up can be ruined in hours through corruption scandals or environmental accidents.\nThese draw unwanted attention from regulators, courts, governments and media. CSR can limit these risks.\n\nCSR can help build customer loyalty based on distinctive ethical values. Some companies use their commitment to CSR as their primary positioning tool, e.g., The Co-operative Group, The Body Shop and American Apparel.\n\nSome companies use CSR methodologies as a strategic tactic to gain public support for their presence in global markets, helping them sustain a competitive advantage by using their social contributions as another form of advertising.\n\nCompanies that operate strong CSR activities tend to drive customer's attention to buy products or services regardless of the price. As a result, this increases competition among firms since customers are aware of the company's CSR practices. These initiatives serve as a potential differentiator because they not only add value to the company, but also to the products or services. Furthermore, firms under intense competition are able to leverage CSR to increase the impact of their distribution on the firm's performance. Lowering the carbon footprint of a firm's distribution network or engaging in fair trade are potential differentiators to lower costs and increase profits. In this scenario, customers can observe the company's commitment to CSR while increasing company sales.\n\nWhole Foods' marketing and promotion of organic foods have had a positive effect on the supermarket industry. Proponents assert that Whole Foods has been able to work with its suppliers to improve animal treatment and quality of meat offered in their stores. They also promote local agricultures in over 2,400 independent farms to maintain their line of sustainable organic produce. As a result, Whole Foods' high prices do not turn customers away from shopping. In fact, they are pleased buying organic products that come from sustainable practices.\n\nAccording to a \"Harvard Business Review\" article, there are three theaters of practice in which CSR can be divided. Theater one focuses on philanthropy, which includes donations of money or equipment to non-profit organizations, engagement with communities' initiatives and employee volunteering. This is characterized as the \"soul\" of a company, expressing the social and environmental priorities of the founders. The authors assert that companies engage in CSR because they are an integral part of the society. The Coca-Cola Company contributes with $88.1 million annually to a variety of environmental educational and humanitarian organization. Another example is PNC Financial Services' \"Grow Up Great\" childhood education program. This program provides critical school readiness resources to underserved communities where PNC operates.\n\nOn the other hand, theater two focuses on improving operational effectiveness in the workplace. The researchers assert that programs in this theater strive to deliver social or environmental benefits to support a company's operation across the value chain by improving efficiency. Some of the examples mentioned include sustainability initiatives to reduce resource use, waste, and emission that could potentially reduce costs. It also calls for investing in employee work conditions such as health care and education which may enhance productivity and retention. Unlike philanthropic giving, which is evaluated by its social and environmental return, initiatives in the second theater are predicted to improve the corporate bottom line with social value. Bimbo, the largest bakery in Mexico, is an excellent example of this theater. The company strives to meet social welfare needs. It offers free educational service to help employees complete high school. Bimbo also provides supplementary medical care and financial assistance to close gaps in the government health coverage.\n\nMoreover, the third theater program aims to transform the business model. Basically, companies create new forms of business to address social or environmental challenges that will lead to financial returns in the long run. One example can be seen in Unilever's Project Shakti in India. The authors describe that the company hires women in villages and provides them with micro-finance loans to sell soaps, oils, detergents, and other products door-to-door. This research indicates that more than 65,000 women entrepreneurs are doubling their incomes while increasing rural access and hygiene in Indian villages. Another example is IKEA's People and Planet initiative to be 100% sustainable by 2020. As a consequence, the company wants to introduce a new model to collect and recycle old furniture.\n\nCorporations are keen to avoid interference in their business through taxation or regulations. A CSR program can persuade governments and the public that a company takes health and safety, diversity and the environment seriously, reducing the likelihood that company practices will be closely monitored.\n\nAppropriate CSR programs can increase the attractiveness of supplier firms to potential customer corporations. E.g., a fashion merchandiser may find value in an overseas manufacturer that uses CSR to establish a positive image—and to reduce the risks of bad publicity from uncovered misbehavior.\n\nCSR concerns include its relationship to the purpose of business and the motives for engaging in it.\n\nMilton Friedman and others argued that a corporation's purpose is to maximize returns to its shareholders and that obeying the laws of the jurisdictions within which it operates constitutes socially responsible behavior.\n\nWhile some CSR supporters claim that companies practicing CSR, especially in developing countries, are less likely to exploit workers and communities, critics claim that CSR itself imposes outside values on local communities with unpredictable outcomes.\n\nBetter governmental regulation and enforcement, rather than voluntary measures, are an alternative to CSR that moves decision-making and resource allocation from public to private bodies. However, critics claim that effective CSR must be voluntary as mandatory social responsibility programs regulated by the government interferes with people's own plans and preferences, distorts the allocation of resources, and increases the likelihood of irresponsible decisions.\n\nSome critics believe that CSR programs are undertaken by companies to distract the public from ethical questions posed by their core operations. They argue that the reputational benefits that CSR companies receive (cited above as a benefit to the corporation) demonstrate the hypocrisy of the approach. Moreover, some studies find that CSR programs are motivated by corporate managers' personal interests at the cost of the shareholders so they are a type of an agency problem in corporations.\n\nOthers have argued that the primary purpose of CSR is to provide legitimacy to the power of businesses. As wealth inequality is perceived to be increasing it has become increasingly necessary for businesses to justify their position of power. Bakan is one of the most prominent critics of the conflict of interest between private profit and public good, and his argument is summarised by Haynes that \"a corporate calculus exists in which costs are pushed onto both workers, consumers and the environment\". CSR spending may be seen in these financial terms, whereby the higher costs of socially undesirable behaviour are offset by a CSR spending of a lower amount. Indeed, it has been argued that there is a \"halo effect\" in terms of CSR spending. Research has found that firms which had been convicted of bribery in the USA under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) received more lenient fines if they had been seen to be actively engaging in comprehensive CSR practices. It was found that typically either a 20% increase in corporate giving or a commitment to eradicating a significant labour issue, such as child labour, was equated to a 40% lower fine in the case of bribing foreign officials.\n\nAguinis and Glavas conducted a comprehensive review of CSR literature, covering 700 academic sources from numerous fields including organizational behaviour, corporate strategy, marketing and HRM. It was found that the primary reason for firms to engage in CSR were the expected financial benefits associated with CSR, rather than being motivated a desire to be responsible to society.\n\nCEOs' political ideologies are evident manifestations of their different personal views. Each CEO may exercise different powers according to their organizational outcomes. In fact, their political ideologies are expected to influence their preferences for the CSR outcomes. Proponents argue that politically liberal CEOs will envision the practice of CSR as beneficial and desirable to increase a firm's reputation. They tend to focus more on how the firm can meet the needs of the society. As a consequence, they will advance with the practice of CSR while adding value to the firm. On the other hand, property rights may be more relevant to conservative CEOs. Since conservatives tend to value free markets, individualism and call for a respect of authority, they will not likely envision this practice as often as those identifying as liberals might.\n\nThe financials of the company and the practice of CSR also have a positive relationship. Moreover, the performance of a company tends to influence conservatives more likely than liberals. While not seeing it from the financial performance point of view, liberals tend to hold a view that CSR adds to the business triple bottom line. For instance, when the company is performing well, they will most likely promote CSR. If the company is not performing as expected, they will rather tend to emphasize this practice because they will potentially envision it as a way to add value to the business. In contrast, politically conservative CEOs will tend to support the practice of CSR if they hold a view that it will provide a good return to the financials of the company. In other words, this type of executives tend to not see the outcome of CSR as a value to the company if it does not provide anything in exchange.\n\nThere have been unsubstantiated social efforts, ethical claims, and outright greenwashing by some companies that has resulted in increasing consumer cynicism and mistrust. Sometimes companies use CSR to direct public attention away from other, harmful business practices. For example, McDonald's Corporation positioned its association with Ronald McDonald House and other children's charities as CSR while its meals have been accused of promoting poor eating habits.\n\nActs which may initially appear to be altruistic CSR may have ulterior motives. The funding of scientific research projects has been used as a source of misdirection by firms. Prusiner, who discovered the protein responsible of CJD and won of the 1997 Nobel prize in Medicine, thanks the tobacco company RJ Reynolds for their crucial support. RJ Reynolds funded the research into CJD. Proctor states that \"the tobacco industry was the leading funder of research into genetics, viruses, immunology, air pollution\" anything which formed a distraction from the well-established research linking smoking and cancer.\n\nResearch has also found that corporate social marketing, a form of CSR promoting societal good, is being used to direct criticism away from the damaging practices of the alcohol industry. It has been shown that adverts which supposedly encourage responsible drinking simultaneously aim to promote drinking as a social norm. Companies may engage in CSR and social marketing in this case to prevent more stringent government legislation on alcohol marketing.\n\nIndustries such as tobacco, alcohol or munitions firms make products that damage their consumers or the environment. Such firms may engage in the same philanthropic activities as those in other industries. This duality complicates assessments of such firms with respect to CSR.\n\nTextile company Kitex has taken over the administration of an entire Indian village called Kizhakkambalam near Cochin by winning the local body elections. Environmentalists and mainstream politicians of India point out that this can lead to a dangerous precedent because the company got actively involved in CSR only after they were caught red-handed in polluting the village.\n\nOne motivation for corporations to adopt CSR is to satisfy stakeholders.\n\nBranco and Rodrigues (2007) describe the stakeholder perspective of CSR as the set of views of corporate responsibility held by all groups or constituents with a relationship to the firm. In their normative model the company accepts these views as long as they do not hinder the organization. The stakeholder perspective fails to acknowledge the complexity of network interactions that can occur in cross-sector partnerships. It relegates communication to a maintenance function, similar to the exchange perspective.\n\nThe rise in popularity of ethical consumerism over the last two decades can be linked to the rise of CSR. Consumers are becoming more aware of the environmental and social implications of their day-to-day consumption decisions and in some cases make purchasing decisions related to their environmental and ethical concerns.\n\nOne issue with the consumer's relationship with CSR is that it is much more complex than it first appears. In their paper on the consumer and CSR, Janssen and Vanhamme looked into a phenomenon that they termed the \"CSR-Consumer Paradox\". This describes the mismatch that occurs where consumers report that they would only buy from companies with good social responsibility. A survey by Cohn & Wolfe found that globally over 60% of consumers want to buy from responsible companies. However, Janssen and Vanhamme reported that less than 4% of average household expenditure in the UK in 2010 was ethical. This indicates that there is a clear discrepancy between consumer beliefs and intentions, and actual consumer behaviour, so that when it comes down to their actual purchase behaviour, CSR has a much lesser impact than consumers initially say it does.\n\nOne theory put forward for explaining the \"CSR-Consumer Paradox\" is that of \"bystander apathy\" or the bystander effect. This theory stems from the social psychology works of Darley and Latané and states that the likelihood of an individual acting in a given situation is greatly reduced if other bystanders do nothing even if that individual strongly believes in a certain course of action. In terms of explaining the CSR-Consumer Paradox, this theory would suggest an \"If they do not care then why should I?\" mentality. So even if a consumer is against the use of sweatshops or wants to support green causes, they may continue to make purchases from companies that are socially irresponsible just because other consumers seem apathetic towards the issue.\n\nA second explanation issued by Janssen and Vanhamme is that of reciprocal altruism. This is a key concept in evolutionary psychology that is argued to fuel all human behaviour: people only do something if they can get something back in return. In the case of CSR and ethical consumerism, however, consumers get very little in return for their investment. Ethically sourced or manufactured products are typically higher in price due to greater costs. However, the reward for consumers is not much different from that of a non-ethical counterpart. Therefore, evolutionary speaking making an ethical purchase is not worth the higher cost to the individual even if they believe in supporting ethically, environmentally and socially beneficial causes.\n\nShareholders and investors, through socially responsible investing, are using their capital to encourage behavior they consider responsible. However, definitions of what constitutes ethical behavior vary. For example, some religious investors in the US have withdrawn investment from companies that violate their religious views, while secular investors divest from companies that they see as imposing religious views on workers or customers.\n\nSome national governments promote socially and environmentally responsible corporate practices. The heightened role of government in CSR has facilitated the development of numerous CSR programs and policies. Various European governments have pushed companies to develop sustainable corporate practices. CSR critics such as Robert Reich argued that governments should set the agenda for social responsibility with laws and regulation that describe how to conduct business responsibly.\n\nFifteen European Union countries are actively engaged in CSR regulation and public policy development. CSR efforts and policies are different among countries, responding to the complexity and diversity of governmental, corporate and societal roles. Some studies have claimed that the role and effectiveness of these actors were case-specific. This variety among company approaches to CSR can complicate regulatory processes.\n\nCanada adopted CSR in 2007. Prime Minister Harper encouraged Canadian mining companies to meet Canada's newly developed CSR standards.\n\nThe 'Heilbronn Declaration' is a voluntary agreement of enterprises and institutions in Germany especially of the Heilbronn-Franconia region signed the 15th of September 2012. The approach of the 'Heilbronn Declaration' targets the decisive factors of success or failure, the achievements of the implementation and best practices regarding CSR. A form of responsible entrepreneurship shall be initiated to meet the requirements of stakeholders' trust in economy. It is an approach to make voluntary commitments more binding.\n\nIn opposition to mandated CSR regulation, Researchers Armstrong & Green suggest that all regulation is \"harmful\", citing regulation as the cause for North Korea's low economic freedom and per capita GDP. They further claim without source that \"There is no form of market failure, however egregious, which is not eventually made worse by the political interventions intended to fix it,\" and conclude \"there is no need for further research on regulation in the name of social responsibility.\"\n\nIn the 1800s, the US government could take away a firm's license if it acted irresponsibly. Corporations were viewed as \"creatures of the state\" under the law. In 1819, the United States Supreme Court in Dartmouth College vs. Woodward established a corporation as a legal person in specific contexts. This ruling allowed corporations to be protected under the Constitution and prevented states from regulating firms. Recently countries included CSR policies in government agendas.\n\nOn 16 December 2008, the Danish parliament adopted a bill making it mandatory for the 1100 largest Danish companies, investors and state-owned companies to include CSR information in their financial reports. The reporting requirements became effective on 1 January 2009. The required information included:\n\nCSR/SRI is voluntary in Denmark, but if a company has no policy on this it must state its positioning on CSR in financial reports.\n\nIn 1995, item S50K of the Income Tax Act of Mauritius mandated that companies registered in Mauritius paid 2% of their annual book profit to contribute to the social and environmental development of the country. In 2014, India also enacted a mandatory minimum CSR spending law. Under Companies Act, 2013, any company having a net worth of 500 crore or more or a turnover of 1,000 crore or a net profit of 5 crore must spend 2% of their net profits on CSR activities. The rules came into effect from 1 April 2014.\n\nThe only mandatory CSR law in the world thus far was passed by the Indian parliament in 2013 as Article 135 of the Companies Law. According to that bill, all firms with net worth above $75 million, turnover over $150 million, or net profit over $750,000 are required to spend at least 2% of their annual profits (averaged over three years). The law requires that all businesses affected establish a CSR committee to oversee the spending. Prior to this law’s passage, CSR laws applied to public sector companies only.\n\nCrises have encouraged the adoption of CSR. The CERES principles were adopted following the 1989 \"Exxon Valdez\" incident. Other examples include the lead paint used by toy maker Mattel, which required the recall of millions of toys and caused the company to initiate new risk management and quality control processes. Magellan Metals was found responsible for lead contamination killing thousands of birds in Australia. The company ceased business immediately and had to work with independent regulatory bodies to execute a cleanup. Odwalla experienced a crisis with sales dropping 90% and its stock price dropping 34% due to cases of E. coli. The company recalled all apple or carrot juice products and introduced a new process called \"flash pasteurization\" as well as maintaining lines of communication constantly open with customers.\n\nCorporations that employ CSR behaviors do not always behave consistently in all parts of the world. Conversely, a single behavior may not be considered ethical in all jurisdictions. E.g., some jurisdictions forbid women from driving, while others require women to be treated equally in employment decisions.\n\nA 2006 study found that the UK retail sector showed the greatest rate of CSR involvement. Many of the big retail companies in the UK joined the Ethical Trading Initiative, an association established to improve working conditions and worker health.\n\nTesco (2013) reported that their 'essentials' are 'Trading responsibility', 'Reducing our Impact on the Environment', 'Being a Great Employer' and 'Supporting Local Communities'. J Sainsbury employs the headings 'Best for food and health', 'Sourcing with integrity', 'Respect for our environment', 'Making a difference to our community', and 'A great place to work', etc.\nThe four main issues to which UK retail these companies committed are environment, social welfare, ethical trading and becoming an attractive workplace.\n\nAnselmsson and Johansson (2007) assessed three areas of CSR performance: human responsibility, product responsibility and environmental responsibility. Martinuzzi et al. described the terms, writing that human responsibility is \"the company deals with suppliers who adhere to principles of natural and good breeding and farming of animals, and also maintains fair and positive working conditions and work-place environments for their own employees. Product responsibility means that all products come with a full and complete list of content, that country of origin is stated, that the company will uphold its declarations of intent and assume liability for its products. Environmental responsibility means that a company is perceived to produce environmental-friendly, ecological, and non-harmful products\". Jones et al. (2005) found that environmental issues are the most commonly reported CSR programs among top retailers.\n\nAn article published in Forbes.com last September 2017 mentioned the yearly study of Boston-based reputation management consulting company Reputation Institute (RI) which rates the top 10 US corporations in terms of corporate social responsibility. RI monitors social responsibility reputations by focusing on perception of consumers regarding company governance, positive impact on the community and society, and treatment of the workforce. It rates each criterion with the firm’s proprietary RepTrak Pulse platform. Forbes identified the companies as Lego, Microsoft, Google, Walt Disney Company, BMW Group, Intel, Robert Bosch, Cisco Systems, Rolls-Royce Aerospace, and Colgate-Palmolive.\n\nAccording to the CSR Journal, the millennial generation worldwide helps propel brands toward social responsibility. Many millennials want to conduct business with companies and trademarks that employ pro-social themes, sustainable manufacturing processes, and ethical business practices. Nielsen Holdings published its Annual Global Corporate Sustainability Report in 2017 concentrating on global responsibility as well as sustainability. Nielsen’s 2015 report showed that 66 percent of consumers will spend more on products that come from sustainable brands. Another 81 percent expect their preferred corporate institutions to reveal in public their statements about corporate citizenship\n\nThe National Association on the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) through its chief executive officer Derrick Johnson shared the organization’s insights on how American corporations can help in the realization of social justice. According to the article from Yahoo News, the NAACP has been engaged in a crusade for racial justice and economic opportunities during the last 109 years. This organization believes all citizens in the United States must be held liable in ensuring democracy works for all people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4835807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4835807", "title": "Disarmament, demobilization and reintegration", "text": "Disarmament, demobilization and reintegration\n\nDisarmament, demobilisation and reintegration (DDR), or disarmament, demobilisation, repatriation, reintegration and resettlement (DDRRR) are applied strategies for executing successful peacekeeping operations, and is generally the strategy employed by all UN Peacekeeping Operations following civil wars. Disarmament entails the physical removal of the means of combat from ex-belligerents (weapons, ammunition, etc.); demobilization entails the disbanding of armed groups; while reintegration describes the process of reintegrating former combatants into civilian society, ensuring against the possibility of a resurgence of armed conflict.\n\nDDR is somewhat different from the blanket term \"peacekeeping\", in that DDR requires certain conditions to be effectively implemented. For demobilisation and reintegration to occur, there must first be a successful disarmament of armed groups. In general terms, parties to a conflict must be willing to negotiate a peace settlement and bring an end to the conflict. If there is no end in sight, or not all parties are willing to negotiate a peace, this will make it difficult to establish trust between each party. Disarmament measures must also be applied to all parties of a conflict. One case that highlights both these elements is that of Somalia. The UN and US began disarming selected armed groups but not all, and there was no peace agreement agreed or on-going. Those groups who had been disarmed were then targeted by groups who had not been disarmed, and the violence continued.\n\nAs mentioned above, trust is also a key factor of successful DDR, specifically in relation to disarming armed groups. Small scale acts may help engender trust on both sides, such as public appearances of group leaders together with international mediators. To strengthen trust, public bonfires of weapons taken from all parties to violence will show the disarming groups that the other groups are also handing over their weapons.\n\nOne challenge or difficulty, as highlighted above, is that of forming trust between the different armed groups. If no peace agreement has already been reached but armed groups wish to start the DDR process, then the underlying issues that led to the violence in the first instance must be addressed. DDR cannot be approached as a purely technocratic exercise, and to not address the grievances of each group may seriously undermine or negatively influence the peace process.\n\nFurther challenges appear when we consider reintegration of ex-combatants. Unlike other aspects of peace agreements such as strengthening democratic institutions, introducing fair elections and governmental structures, the reintegration of ex-combatants back into civilian society may be difficult to accurately monitor. This in part is due to its social nature: how do you measure how ex-combatants have integrated with society? How can you measure the societal cohesion that DDR aims to promote throughout the affected region?\n\nCivil war often involves high degrees of communal violence, and this poses a particular challenge for fighters who may have joined armed groups that committed violent acts in the ex-combatants communities. Even if the individual ex-combatant in question did not commit violent acts against their own community, they may still face difficulties being accepted back if associated with a group that did. This may lead to disjointed familial ties, communal tensions, or ex-fighters choosing not to return home altogether. As such, it may be possible to successfully reintegrate fighters back into civilian society, but reintegrating them back into their own communities may be a much harder task.\n\nThere are 6 aspects to a successful DDR conversion:\n\n\nDemobilization is one aspect of conversion.\n\nTo assess the impact of demobilization one has to consider the resources involved, the dynamic processes of production, redistribution and the different factors and actors in policy making and implementation. The ultimate objective of demobilization and reintegration efforts should be to improve the welfare of people. Demobilization of combatants frees human potential that can contribute to achieving these objectives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2276005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276005", "title": "Eidetic reduction", "text": "Eidetic reduction\n\nEidetic reduction is a technique in the study of essences in phenomenology whose goal is to identify the basic components of phenomena. Eidetic reduction requires that a phenomenologist examine the essence of a mental object, be it a simple mental act, or the unity of consciousness itself, with the intention of drawing out the absolutely necessary and invariable components that make the mental object what it is. This reduction is done with the intention of removing what is perceived, and leaving only what is required.\n\nOne can take for example Descartes's piece of wax (not as a mental object, but as a demonstration of the concept of reduction). It appears to be opaque, flat, hard, extended to certain dimensions in space. It has a certain feel, smell, taste. Most of these qualities can be negated as necessary to the piece of wax continuing to be a piece of wax; the smell, taste, texture, opacity. If heated, it will continue to be the same piece of wax, the same molecules. However, the taste may change, the smell may become more noticeable, the texture will obviously change, it will become clear if heated to the point of melting, etc. The only things that remain (its extension into space, chemical makeup, and mass) are the things that are required for the existence of that piece of wax. \n\nEidetic reduction is a form of imaginative variation by which one attempts to reduce a phenomenon into its necessary essences. This is done by theoretically changing different elements (while mentally observing whether or not the phenomenon changes) of a practical object to learn which characteristics are necessary for it to be it without being something else. If a characteristic is changed, and the object remains unchanged, the characteristic is unnecessary to the essence of the object, and vice versa.\n\nThe basic steps of an eidetic reduction are threefold: first, choose some specific example (e.g., Descartes' wax). Then, vary the example imaginatively. The third step involves figuring out that which cannot be eliminated while the example remains itself. That which cannot be eliminated is part of the example's essence.\n\nAs an instructive process, eidetic reduction might be viewed as processes of abstraction; the works of Whitehead and Russell in their \"Principia Mathematica\" could give one a taste of those processes, or even the simple contemplation of mathematics itself in use: \"How many ideas have you?\" and the respondent may claim, \"Just two.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22105578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22105578", "title": "Elisabeth Schellekens", "text": "Elisabeth Schellekens\n\nAnna Elisabeth Schellekens Dammann is a British philosopher and Chair Professor of Aesthetics at Uppsala University (since 2014). She is known for her works on aesthetics and ethics.\nSchellekens is co-editor of the \"British Journal of Aesthetics\". Previously, she was Senior Lecturer at Durham University (2006-2014).\n\nShe received her MA (Hons.) and MSc (Res) from the University of Edinburgh and completed her PhD at King's College London in 2003. She held a post-doctoral research fellowship at King's from 2003 to 2006. Schellekens was then appointed at Durham as Lecturer.\nShe is a member of the \"Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism\"'s editorial board.\n\nShe is married to the musicologist and critic Guy Dammann. They have two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51509126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51509126", "title": "Emmanuel G. Cefai", "text": "Emmanuel G. Cefai\n\nEmmanuel George Cefai (born 1955) is a Maltese Doctor of Law, poet and philosopher. His poems are published . In the philosophical field he is acknowledged within professional circles as ‘promising’. This is mainly due to the fact that, as yet, he has published very little of his intellectual production.\n\nCefai’s poetry is mainly composed in English. His poems are regularly published in reputable sites and frequently acclaimed by connoisseurs . In August 2011 he published an ebook with a collection of forty selected poems. His creative production, mostly unpublished, includes lyric and epic poetry, drama, and short stories.\n\nCefai began publishing writings about his philosophical interests in 1978 . Nevertheless, the greater part of his extensive philosophical works are, as yet, still unpublished, mainly due to editorial reasons . He has posted a few draft productions on his own website.\n\nIn 2014, Cefai published \"The Spirit of Metaphysics: A philosophical monograph on a logical theory of the universe\", of which he presented his conclusions to the Philosophy Sharing Foundation in April 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "15366840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15366840", "title": "Entrenched player's dilemma", "text": "Entrenched player's dilemma\n\nThe entrenched player's dilemma is a concept featured in \"Wikinomics.\" It is the choice faced by existing businesses in a changing marketplace. To embrace new ideas fully, they must abandon their current revenue streams.\n\nDon Tapscott and Anthony D. Williams explain the concept:\n\n\"The problem with mature companies is that the very commercial success of their products increases their dependency on them. Making radical changes in the product's capabilities, underlying architecture or associated business models could cannibalize sales or lead to costly realignments of strategy and business infrastructure. It's as though popular and widely adopted products become ossified, hardened by the inherent incentives to build on their own success. The result is that entrenched industry players are generally not motivated to develop or deploy disruptive technologies.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11508558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11508558", "title": "Evolution of biological complexity", "text": "Evolution of biological complexity\n\nThe evolution of biological complexity is one important outcome of the process of evolution. Evolution has produced some remarkably complex organisms - although the actual level of complexity is very hard to define or measure accurately in biology, with properties such as gene content, the number of cell types or morphology all proposed as possible metrics.\n\nMany biologists used to believe that evolution was progressive (orthogenesis) and had a direction that led towards so-called \"higher organisms,\" despite a lack of evidence for this viewpoint. This idea of \"progression\" and \"higher organisms\" in evolution is now regarded as misleading, with natural selection having no intrinsic direction and organisms selected for either increased or decreased complexity in response to local environmental conditions. Although there has been an increase in the maximum level of complexity over the history of life, there has always been a large majority of small and simple organisms and the most common level of complexity appears to have remained relatively constant.\n\nUsually organisms that have a higher rate of reproduction than their competitors have an evolutionary advantage. Consequently, organisms can evolve to become simpler and thus multiply faster and produce more offspring, as they require fewer resources to reproduce. A good example are parasites such as Plasmodium - the parasite responsible for malaria - and mycoplasma; these organisms often dispense with traits that are made unnecessary through parasitism on a host.\n\nA lineage can also dispense with complexity when a particular complex trait merely provides no selective advantage in a particular environment. Loss of this trait need not necessarily confer a selective advantage, but may be lost due to the accumulation of mutations if its loss does not confer an immediate selective disadvantage. For example, a parasitic organism may dispense with the synthetic pathway of a metabolite where it can readily scavenge that metabolite from its host. Discarding this synthesis may not necessarily allow the parasite to conserve significant energy or resources and grow faster, but the loss may be fixed in the population through mutation accumulation if no disadvantage is incurred by loss of that pathway. Mutations causing loss of a complex trait occur more often than mutations causing gain of a complex trait.\n\nWith selection, evolution can also produce more complex organisms. Complexity often arises in the co-evolution of hosts and pathogens, with each side developing ever more sophisticated adaptations, such as the immune system and the many techniques pathogens have developed to evade it. For example, the parasite \"Trypanosoma brucei\", which causes sleeping sickness, has evolved so many copies of its major surface antigen that about 10% of its genome is devoted to different versions of this one gene. This tremendous complexity allows the parasite to constantly change its surface and thus evade the immune system through antigenic variation.\n\nMore generally, the growth of complexity may be driven by the co-evolution between an organism and the ecosystem of predators, prey and parasites to which it tries to stay adapted: as any of these become more complex in order to cope better with the diversity of threats offered by the ecosystem formed by the others, the others too will have to adapt by becoming more complex, thus triggering an ongoing evolutionary arms race towards more complexity. This trend may be reinforced by the fact that ecosystems themselves tend to become more complex over time, as species diversity increases, together with the linkages or dependencies between species.\n\nIf evolution possessed an active trend toward complexity (orthogenesis), as was widely believed in the 19th century, then we would expect to see an active trend of increase over time in the most common value (the mode) of complexity among organisms. \n\nHowever, an increase in complexity can also be explained through a passive process. Assuming unbiased random changes of complexity and the existence of a minimum complexity leads to an increase over time of the average complexity of the biosphere.This involves an increase in variance, but the mode does not change. The trend towards the creation of some organisms with higher complexity over time exists, but it involves increasingly small percentages of living things. \n\nIn this hypothesis, any appearance of evolution acting with an intrinsic direction towards increasingly complex organisms is a result of people concentrating on the small number of large, complex organisms that inhabit the right-hand tail of the complexity distribution and ignoring simpler and much more common organisms. This passive model predicts that the majority of species are microscopic prokaryotes, which is supported by estimates of 10 to 10 extant prokaryotes compared to diversity estimates of 10 to 3·10 for eukaryotes. Consequently, in this view, microscopic life dominates Earth, and large organisms only appear more diverse due to sampling bias.\n\nGenome complexity has generally increased since the beginning of the life on Earth. Some computer models have suggested that the generation of complex organisms is an inescapable feature of evolution.\n\nRecently work in evolution theory has proposed that by relaxing selection pressure, which typically acts to streamline genomes, the complexity of an organism increases by a process called constructive neutral evolution. Since the effective population size in eukaryotes (especially multi-cellular organisms) is much smaller than in prokaryotes, they experience lower selection constraints.\n\nAccording to this model, new genes are created by non-adaptive processes, such as by random gene duplication. These novel entities, although not required for viability, do give the organism excess capacity that can facilitate the mutational decay of functional subunits. If this decay results in a situation where all of the genes are now required, the organism has been trapped in a new state where the number of genes has increased. This process has been sometimes described as a complexifying ratchet. These supplemental genes can then be co-opted by natural selection by a process called neofunctionalization. In other instances constructive neutral evolution does not promote the creation of new parts, but rather promotes novel interactions between existing players, which then take on new moonlighting roles.\n\nConstructive neutral evolution has also been used to explain how ancient complexes, such as the spliceosome and the ribosome, have gained new subunits over time, how new alternative spliced isoforms of genes arise, how gene scrambling in ciliates evolved, and how pervasive pan-RNA editing may have arisen in \"Trypanosoma brucei\".\n\nIn the 19th century, some scientists such as Jean-Baptiste Lamarck (1744–1829) and Ray Lankester (1847–1929) believed that nature had an innate striving to become more complex with evolution. This belief may reflect then-current ideas of Hegel (1770–1831) and of Herbert Spencer (1820–1903) which envisaged the universe gradually evolving to a higher, more perfect state.\n\nThis view regarded the evolution of parasites from independent organisms to a parasitic species as \"devolution\" or \"degeneration\", and contrary to nature. Social theorists have sometimes interpreted this approach metaphorically to decry certain categories of people as \"degenerate parasites\". Later scientists regarded biological devolution as nonsense; rather, lineages become simpler or more complicated according to whatever forms had a selective advantage.\n\n"}
{"id": "34043388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34043388", "title": "Feminist method", "text": "Feminist method\n\nThe feminist method is a means of conducting of scientific investigations and generating theory from an explicitly feminist standpoint. Feminist methodologies are varied, but tend to have a few common aims or characteristics, including seeking to overcome biases in research, bringing about social change, displaying human diversity, and acknowledging the position of the researcher. Questioning normal scientific reasoning is another form of the feminist method.. Each of these methods must consist of different parts including: collection of evidence, testing of theories, presentation of data, and room for rebuttals. How research is scientifically backed up affects the results. Like consciousness raising, some feminist methods affect the collective emotions of women, when things like political statistics are more of a structural result When knowledge is either constructed by experiences, or discovered, it needs to both be reliable and valid. Strong feminist supporters of this are Nancy Hartsock, Hilary Rose, and finally Sandra Harding. Feminist sociologists have made important contributions to this debate as they began to criticize positivism as a philosophical framework and, more specifically, its most acute methodological instrument—that of quantitative methods for its practice of detached and objective scientific research and the objectification of research subjects (Graham 1983b; Reinharz 1979). These methodological critiques were well placed against a backdrop of feminist scholarship struggling to find a place for alternative values within the academy. Such concerns emerged from a sense of despair and anger that knowledge, both academic and popular, was based on men’s lives, male ways of thinking, and directed toward the problems articulated by men. Dorothy Smith (1974) argued that “sociology . . . has been based on and built up within the male social universe”\n\nFeminist methods have, in large part, been scaffolded as a rebuttal to existing research methods that operate under imperialist, racist, and patriarchal assumptions about the research subject. By pointing out the biased perspectives and assumptions of researchers, feminist scholars work to elucidate the ways in which the idea of objectivity has operated merely as a stand-in for the white, male perspective, and how feminist methods, in contrast, work to produce knowledge in which “the researcher appears to us not as an invisible, anonymous voice of authority, but as a real, historical individual with concrete, specific desires and interests.” Also inherent in the traditional researcher-subject relationship is the subject-object relationship, for the researcher becomes the autonomous subject when they study other humans as objects, as in this case the “subject” is ironically objectified through the process of scientific investigation, which does not take into account their agency or the will of their community. Subjects are also simultaneously “Othered” by Western researchers who exotify their ways of life through “a Western discourse about the Other which is supported by ‘institutions, vocabulary, scholarship, imagery, doctrines, even colonial bureaucracies and colonial styles.’” Reinharz therefore posits that the destruction of the Other and the remodeling of the traditional subject-object relationship must occur simultaneously through explicit engagement with three different actors in feminist research: the researcher, the reader, and the people being studied. In this way, productive, feminist methods attempt to “demystify” and “decolonize” research through recognizing how traditional methods construct the Other and are cloaked in a false objectivity, and subsequently to deconstruct these narratives in order to “talk more creatively about research with particular groups and communities – women, the economically oppressed, ethnic minorities and indigenous peoples.”\n\nThrough questioning science Anne Fausto-Sterling came up with alternatives to the concept of having only two sexes, male and female. She argues that through biological development there is a possibility of having five sexes instead of two. She believes there are male, female, merm (male pseudohermaphrodites, i.e. when testicular tissue is present), ferm (female pseudohermaphrodites, i.e. when ovarian tissue is present), and herm (true hermaphrodites, i.e. when both testicular and ovarian tissue is present).\n\nAlison Jaggar disputes the dichotomy between reason and emotion and argues that rationality needs emotion. She states emotions are normally associated with women and rationality is associated with men. She also claims that there are many theories as to the origins of emotions, and in the long run listening to emotions might lead to better decisions.\n"}
{"id": "40565736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40565736", "title": "Four Upbuilding Discourses, 1844", "text": "Four Upbuilding Discourses, 1844\n\nFour Upbuilding Discourses (1844) is the last of the \"Eighteen Upbuilding Discourses\" published during the years 1843–1844 by Søren Kierkegaard. He published three more discourses on \"crucial situations in life\" (\"Three Discourses on Imagined Occasions\") in 1845, the situations being confession, marriage, and death. These three areas of life require a \"decision made in time\".\n\nThe book is about making decisions. Søren Kierkegaard had to make some decision. He had to decide if he wanted to get married after having already made the \"sacred pledge\". He had to decide if he would carry out the wishes of his father, Michael, and become a Lutheran preacher or teacher. He made \"negative\" resolutions regarding these promises he had made. Perhaps some thought he should remain true to his word.\n\nThis word \"resolution\" is the core of Kierkegaard's idea behind the leap of faith. His question is: Who can make a positive or negative resolution for another? A resolution is best made by the single individual in the quietness of his or her soul through the inward struggle rather than the struggle with external forces.\n\nThis discourse has to do with a psychological view regarding the process of decision making and making of vows for \"existing\" single individuals and has nothing to do with the crowd or with \"noisy voting\".\n\nSøren Kierkegaard was born on May 5, 1813 and died on November 11, 1855. He kept a journal and he mentions a \"Diary\" in \"Either/Or\" and another in \"Stages on Life's Way\" with dates listed here and there. His preface to \"Either/Or\" says the following:\"The Diary has a date here and there, but the year is always omitted. This might seem to preclude further inquiry, but by studying the individual dates, I believe I have found a clue. Of course every year has a seventh of April, a third of July, a second of August and so forth; but it is not true that the seventh of April falls every year on Monday. I therefore have made certain calculations and have found that this combination fits the year 1834.\" \"Either/Or, Part I\", Preface, p. 10 Swenson Later, in \"Stages on Life's Way\" he wrote a \"Morning\" entry in the diary on May 4 about birth and on May 5 at \"Midnight\" an entry on Periander. Then on \"June 18 at Midnight\" he wrote about guilt. His mother Ane Kierkegaard was born on June 18. Then on July 7 at midnight he wrote about Regine. There is a genealogy of his family on the internet. He used dates in his discourses also.\n\nThe preface for this, his last discourses published in this two-year period, was dated August 9, 1844, the date of or after the death of his father, Mikael Pedersen Kierkegaard, (August 9, 1838). It could be possible that these \"Eighteen Upbuilding Discourses\" was his way of getting over the loss of his father and his mother, Ane Sørensdatter Lund Kierkegaard, and brothers and sisters too. Soren lost all of his brothers and sisters (Nicholene, Niels, Petrea, Soren Michael, Marin Kristine), as well as his mother and father by August 9, 1838. Only his brother Peter Christian was left. Soren died November 11, 1855 and Peter on February 24, 1888). Perhaps it was his way of grieving. But it's not grieving in a spectacular way. It's grieving as indirectly as possible. And doing it in a thoroughly Christian way by honoring his father and mother even though they were both dead. He wrote about death in his 1845 book \"Thoughts on Crucial Situations in Human Life\", which was translated by David F. Swenson in 1941 and also translated by Howard V. Hong and Edna H. Hong as \"Three Discourses on Imagined Occasions\" in 1993. He wrote: \n\nHe kept to his familiar formula while writing his preface by dedicating his discourse to his father, who was a clothing merchant living in Copenhagen and writing to \"my reader\", not my readers, because his books were for each single individual to read if she or he wanted to read it. His preface said, in part, \"although this little book (which is called “discourses,” not sermons, because its author does not have authority to \"preach\", “upbuilding” discourses, not discourses for upbuilding, because the speaker by no means claims to be a \"teacher\") is once again going out into the world, it is even less fearful of drawing any impeding attention to itself than it was the first time it started on the journey; it hopes rather that because of the repetition the passersby will scarcely notice it, or if at all only to let it shift for itself. It seeks that single individual whom I with joy and gratitude call \"my reader\", in order to pay him a visit, indeed, to stay with him, because one goes to the person one loves, makes one’s home with him, and remains with him if this is allowed.\" Søren Kierkegaard, \"Eighteen Upbuilding Discourses\", Hong p. 295 \n\nThe discourses are titled,\n\nKierkegaard \"felt inclined to doubt a little the correctness of the familiar philosophic maxim that the external is the internal and the internal the external and was always heretically-minded on this point in philosophy.\" The external would be experience and the internal revelation. This developed into the discussions about the primacy of Revelation or of Reason in religious matters. At this time a new medium for knowledge was coming of age, newspapers. Kierkegaard wrote about them on November 28, 1835. These newspapers came to be regarded as another form of knowledge. But is this knowledge given by the newspapers an external or an internal form of knowledge or of revelation? Kierkegaard wondered about that.\n\nHe many times referred to \"the one thing needful\" throughout his writings. Now he says \"to need God is a human being's highest perfection.\" This is direct communication instead of the indirect method he chose for most of his pseudonymous writings. He has discussed the goods of the world in comparison to the goods of the spirit which indicates the same external and internal relationship. This fragment of the Bible, \"one thing needful\", is found in the story of Martha of Bethany and Mary Magdalene from the \"New Testament\". Mary knew she was a sinner and thanked Christ for saving her from her sins, while Martha was busy serving Him. Martha said, “Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me.” But the Lord answered her, “Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things; one thing is needful. Mary has chosen the good portion, which shall not be taken away from her.” Mary represents the one who is related to Christ in an internal way and Martha the external. Speculation might say that Mary is William Blake or Johann Goethe and Martha is Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel or Baruch Spinoza. Kierkegaard uses these single individuals to help him \"teach his age what it is 'to become a Christian'.\" Can a single individual be seduced by the religious in such a way that he or she becomes in danger of developing into extreme examples of the internal (mystic) and the external (Don Quixote)?\nWhat, then, was the one thing ' that he willed? As he makes clear in \"Om min Forfatter- Virksomhed\" (\"My Literary Activity\" 1851, p. 35ff), it was religion; or, more definitely, his one aim was to teach his age what it is ' to become a Christian' or at least \"compel the age to take notice.\" He discussed this further in his 1848 unpublished book, \"The Point of View For my Work as an Author\", where he discusses a \"factum\" that made him into a poet and his esthetic production moved him forward to a different place. He wrote: \n\nKierkegaard goes on to tell \"the secret of perfection: that to need God is nothing to be ashamed of but is perfection itself.\" Another way to say that is we become perfect when we learn that we are not perfect. Once that happens the individual struggles with himself rather than with the world. He uses Moses as an example of an individual who knew he was capable of nothing at all but he was confronted by the crowd that demanded a demonstration. He sums up this battle for the self this way: \n\nThe outer world is constantly in a state of flux but if a single individual wants to be able to function in such a world he or she must be able to allow the change but stay constant in the inner being through a strengthening process. Kierkegaard believed the world of the spirit is opposed to the world of change because God never changes. And God strengthens in the inner being before asking for external action. Then \"when the first self submits to the deeper self, they are reconciled and walk on together.\" (\"Edifying Discourses\", p. 253ff)\n\nKierkegaard discusses other Biblical phrases that have been turned into speculative enterprises for scholars as well as lay ministers. Here he discusses \"the thorn in the flesh\" and \"caught up in the third heaven.\" The Apostle Paul had experience and an assured spirit yet he had this thorn in the side and the order not to discuss being caught up in the third heaven. This unsettled Paul, since he wanted to know all things, and had conflict in his soul. Kierkegaard writes elegantly about Paul's search for peace. \n\nThose who interpret the Bible can do harm to the single individual who is reading the interpretation because of the way that individual is constituted. Paul learned he would not be able to know everything and said it was beneficial for him that this is the way it is. Kierkegaard says, \"he had experienced the beatitude of heaven and had kept the pledge of the spirit, but there was nevertheless a memory. And a memory is difficult to manage. At one time it is far away, and then, presto, it is right there as if it had never been forgotten. Paul had memories of stoning Stephen and persecuting Christians and wandered about in \"the fog of unintelligibility.\"\n\nHis intent was exemplified in his 1846 book, \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\": \n\nKierkegaard challenges the reader with the question, \"Do you know what the discourse is about?\" Paul had been given Roman citizenship as a gift from God, he had been given this challenge of trying to guide an infant church into existence along with others chosen by Christ. What do we do about the positive gifts we have been given by God? These gifts become thorns if you don't use them. Martin Luther had commented about thorns much in the same way Kierkegaard does here when he wrote to his wife, \"Thou mayest tell M. Philipps to correct his postil. He never understood why our Lord, in the gospel, calls riches thorns. Here is the school to learn that. But I shudder to think that thorns, in the Scripture, are always threatened with fire. Wherefore I have the greater patience, if haply, by the help of God, I may be able to bring some good to pass.\" (Martin Luther, To His Wife 1546) Kierkegaard was grateful for the free gift of intellectual ability, imagination, and dialectical skills and he took these gifts as gifts that should be used in the service of God. Is it better to examine your own positive qualities or the negative qualities associated to your own self? Can knowledge become a thorn in the side? Here is how he said it in 1847 and then 1848, \n\nKierkegaard begins with a passage from the Bible in this discourse, \"For God did not give us a spirit of timidity but a spirit of power and love and self-control.\" 2 Timothy 1:7. Kierkegaard returns to the subject of \"Either/Or\" and writes in \"praise of the resolution\". The decision to make a resolution is the \"leap of faith\" because the resolution always leads the person forward. Scholars can interpret this passage and write whole books about it but it seems that there would be \"an abundance of interpretations and a poverty of action.\"\n\nHis discourse is against cowardliness not against pride because the single individual aught to be able to \"acknowledge the good that he does do\". But the single individual evades action by using cowardliness and time. He says the spirit enters into the service of the good so it can build a tower to the Lord. But cowardliness gets in the way. What is cowardliness and does everyone possess it or is it only possessed by the weak and anxious? Kierkegaard answers in this way, \"take it for granted that everyone is somewhat cowardly, and in particular it can safely be assumed that anyone who seeks to know himself better will be willing to acknowledge that he has not infrequently caught himself in it, and for that reason he is always a bit dubious about even his boldest enterprise.\" So remember \"the one thing needful\".\n\nThe single individual can know very many things but not do much of anything that relates to the knowing. One can reflect on what the Bible says or one could decide to do something in relation to what they know. Kierkegaard put it this way in his \"Concluding Postscript\" (1846) and again in his journals. \n\nKierkegaard wanted to get married but he took his time about making his decision, even after he had made a promise to marry. He consulted with himself and with God and made a negative resolution about marriage. But someone might come along in the future. He learned not to lean on an imagined view of what a woman is through his contact with Regine Olsen and didn't form an opinion of what he wanted. He didn't want to compare girl with girl and find out through comparison that his tower was higher or lower than others. \n\nThe rest of the discourse discusses how cowardliness, false pride, sagacity, and time conspire to keep us out of the world of the spirit and from acting there. But he keeps reminding every single individual that all are equal in the world of the spirit. Kierkegaard preferred to study the Bible alone so he could have a clear understanding of where he stood. Others can't do that and need help or to hear it read aloud in Church. Kierkegaard had to make his own resolution about the world of the spirit. He wrote the following in 1848. \"I had to either cast myself into perdition and sensuality, or to choose the religious absolutely as the one thing-either the world in a measure that would be dreadful, or the cloister.\" In this resolution he maintained, as the apostles had, that he was only an \"unworthy servant\". He strove to keep his resolution and asked others the following question. \"Where does the fault lie if the person and his resolution no longer live together in harmony?\" \n\nNow Kierkegaard takes the reader where he wanted to take him. To prayer, specifically to the \"struggle\" involved in prayer. And the prayer hopes for the \"reward\". Is to struggle in prayer a \"contradiction\" in terms? Can it be shown artistically and scientifically? It all gets confused and \"the strong man is warned not to misuse his power against the weak, but the weak man is also warned not to misuse the power of prayer against the strong.\" Every single individual prays in his or her own particular way and there is no \"scientific method\" for praying. But what are we praying about? \n\nMany Christians as well as individuals associated with other religious bodies pray. It seems to be something everyone does. All struggle but Kierkegaard asks, \"But what is the issue in the struggle?\" Is it the outcome or result that is the issue? What happens if the praying individual becomes \"lukewarm and cold and indifferent\"? He says, \"One says: To renounce everything is an enormous abstraction-that is why one must proceed to hold on to something. But if the task is to renounce everything, what if one began by renouncing something?\"\n\nHe's been discussing the relationship of human being to human being, the relationship of a human being with the soul, and a human being in relationship with God. And he's been discussing change. One human being can change another but it can cause many difficulties. The human being who is aware that a soul exists within the inner being can consider it as an individual. \"Worship is the maximum for a human being’s relationship with God, and thereby for his likeness to God, since the qualities are absolutely different.\"\n\nHow does the crowd decide what it wants and needs compared with the decision of the single individual? The crowd hears stories and wonders if they are true. Repetition of the story increases its validity. Kierkegaard thinks people should reflect on those stories for a longer period of time and choose for themselves if they are believable. He wrote the following in 1846: \n\nSøren Kierkegaard made many wishes in his life and had them \"die in being born\". He also hoped much but started out with \"a short-lived hope, that tomorrow is forgotten; a childish hope, that old age does not recognize\". He was just a young man and young men like to wish and hope and love. He found that his \"faith was disappointed and vanished because of the pain of the wish\". He wished for happiness and good health and to have money and the possibility of a family; and he wanted to know what he needed for his wish to come true. He hoped that somehow the conditions would be right so he could be happy. That's all he wanted.\n\nWhen he was young he complained to the Greek gods Prometheus and Epimetheus because they equipped human beings so gloriously and yet it did not occur to them to give them money also. Here he was the ethicist like Martha. What service she could have done if she only had the money. Earlier, as the esthete, he had asked for an internal good, a sense of humor. Mary knew she was a sinner, that she was unethical and yet she was saved. Imagine what Mary could have done with a sense of humor. One could make prayer an external, scientific act while the other could make it into a suffocating internal private act with no other communication. But neither way, if taken to extremes, would result in faith. He visits this theme again in 1850 with his discourse \"The Woman Who Was a Sinner\" where he says, \"from a woman you learn concern for the one thing needful, from Mary, sister of Lazarus, who sat silent at Christ's feet with her heart's choice: the one thing needful.\"\nKierkegaard said he could describe the movements of faith but he couldn't make them because he couldn't understand Abraham. It's difficult to understand each other in the physical world. Sometimes its a miracle. Isn't it much more difficult to understand each other in the world of the spirit, because each single individual in a group of people praying is standing before God? And the secret given through prayer by God is a gift for the individual concerned according to Kierkegaard's view of the Bible. \n\nKierkegaard was noticed by \"The Western Literary Messenger\", Sept 1849, which wrote that everything exists for Kierkegaard in this one point, the human heart and as he reflects this changing heart in the eternal unchangeable, in that which became flesh and dwelt among us he has found a lively group of readers among the ladies.\n\nIn 1848, Kierkegaard wrote: \"I almost never made a visit, and at home the rule was strictly observed to receive no one except the poor who came to seek help.\" One could speculate that each time a poor single individual came to his door his first self shouted \"Me wants\" regarding the money he gave away. This corresponds with what Andrew Hamilton, a member of the Royal Society of Antiquaries of the North, Copenhagen, wrote about Søren Kierkegaard in 1852 in his book \"Sixteen Months in the Danish Isles\" (1852). Kierkegaard did his research among the living in the streets of Copenhagen during the day and among the dead in books during the evening hours. This author does not mention the discourses he wrote from 1843 to 1844. Yet his discourses always seem to finally meet that single individual whom he with joy and gratitude called his reader, sometimes in the second, third or fourth hour. The reader who takes with the right hand what was offered with the right hand and takes an interest in the seeker. This reader transforms the discourse into a conversation even though many will scarcely notice the discourses because of the repetition. \n\nThe year Kierkegaard died, 1855, The Journal, \"Evangelical Christendom\" published a work entitled, \"Christian Work and the News of the Churches\" which stated that Kierkegaard wrote against the use of the arts and sciences in religion. Hans Lassen Martensen wrote about Kierkegaard's ideas in his book, \"Christian Ethics\", and said Kierkegaard claimed himself as the inventor of the category of the \"single individual\" and saw only Socrates as his predecessor. But Kierkegaard may have been reacting to Johann Gottlieb Fichte's (1762 - 1814) category of the race over the individual in his lecture, \"Idea of Universal History\", or of his discussion of \"pure Ego\" and \"Non Ego\" in his 1794 book \"The Vocation of the Scholar\" or even of Johann Goethe's view of Shakespeare as the self-made man, or possibly of George Brandes account of Ludwig Tieck's (1773 - 1853) poem \"Love/I\" in his \"Main Currents of Nineteenth Century Literature\", Volume 2. But Kierkegaard was most interested in finding a way to get along with himself.\n\nKierkegaard and Friedrich Nietzsche (1844–1900) both rebelled against Hegel's philosophy. Neither had a systematic approach to philosophy or religion. And both were compared to Johann Georg Hamann (1730–1788), the \"Magus of the North\". Kierkegaard lived at the time Hegel was writing but Nietzsche had help with his battle because of the work of Arthur Schopenhauer (1788–1860). Both were identified with this category of the single individual.\n\nDavid F. Swenson translated the \"Edifying Discourses\" during 1944–1945. The publisher (Augsburg Publishing House) said, \"no real understanding of Kierkegaard is possible unless these devotional works are understood and assimilated.\" He wrote about Kierkegaard's idea of the inner and outer self in 1941. He agrees with Kierkegaard in that this \"first self\" must learn that it is not infallible and come to an agreement with the \"deeper self\" before growth can occur.\n\nExistential philosophers have the category of the other which was an entity outside of the single individual. This \"other\" is something one is to be freed from because it wants to enslave the single individual wishing to remain a single individual in the face of the other. Kierkegaard would disagree with this interpretation and would insist that the other is the anxiety created by the interplay of the first self and the deeper self as it relates itself to the external world. He wrote the following in \"The Concept of Anxiety\", which was published just two months before this final discourse of 1844. \n\nHoward V. Hong who translated the \"Upbuilding Discourses\" in 1990 said the following in his introduction to the book. \"The movement is to arrive at the simple, the movement is from the public to the single individual.\" Kierkegaard tried to sell his discourses individually, then as Eighteen Upbuilding Discourses, published in 1845. After he ran out of his Two Upbuilding Discourses, 1843 he combined them into a set of sixteen which he called \"Sexten opbyggelige Taler\". Sales were meager nonetheless. But he kept his faith in what he was called to do and continued writing.\n\nCritics have been against putting so much stress on the inner life of the spiritual self at the expense of the outer life of the physical self. Kierkegaard would agree that a balance is necessary for one to be happy. George Brandes said in his memoirs (1906), \"That God had died for me as my Saviour,—I could not understand what it meant.\" As far as Kierkegaard was concerned he would say Brandes was making a good start at becoming a Christian. Brandes also introduced Friedrich Nietzsche who was also interested in the problems of faith and knowledge and the idea that \"\none thing is needful\". Nietzsche wrote the following in his book, \"Beyond Good and Evil\": \n\nCritics have concentrated on the personality of Kierkegaard to a greater degree than on his writings, especially his discourses. Early interpreters of his works were Georg Brandes, Harald Hoffding and O. P. Monrad according to this article written in 1915. \n\nThomas Merton wrote a book in 1955 called \"No Man Is An Island\" in response to the interest scholars had in the category of the single individual because he thought this idea would lead people away from the Church. He writes very similarly to what Kierkegaard stated. Here is part of his prologue. \n\nRollo May discussed Kierkegaard's ideal of creating oneself in his 1975 book, \"The Courage to Create\". He agrees with Kierkegaard's assessment that the self is always only in the process of becoming that which it will be. Determinism, or the accidents of life, are what they are, but the thinking and self-creating that goes on with each single individual is what allows each of us to face our own fantasies.\n\nIb Ostenfeld argued that Kierkegaard must have been a \"healthy and stable individual\" once his personal psychology is considered. He noted that \"at the outset psychiatry was not a medical specialty in Denmark until the period 1880 to 1890 and that psychiatric studies of Kierkegaard are themselves quite recent. Indeed, the first author to study Kierkegaard from a medical point of views was P.A. Heiberg, who was himself a physician.\" (Author's Introduction). See link in Secondary sources for his 1978 book, \"Søren Kierkegaard's Psychology\".\n\nKierkegaard used the Bible as a source book. Jon Stewart has written two books about Kierkegaard's use of the Bible in his works. \"The Dictionary of Major Biblical Interpreters\" states, \"The Bible was the most important piece of literature in Søren Kierkegaard's life.\"\n\nThere is this tension between those who want to go it alone and those who want company along the way. Kierkegaard was concerned about those who want to teach themselves everything and those who can barely teach themselves anything. If they want to argue with one another then there should be no \"scorn and contempt and ways of frightening\". One ought to help the other. He wrote about egotistical and sympathetic depression, autopathetic doubt, autopathetic and sympathetic resolutions, and suffering autopathetically and sympathetically. Some things have to be done alone but that doesn't apply to all things. He liked to pray and this discourse was about prayer. He wrote the following prayer in \"Practice in Christianity\" (1850), a book for \"awakening and deepening.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4659051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4659051", "title": "Francis Anderson (philosopher)", "text": "Francis Anderson (philosopher)\n\nSir Francis Anderson (3 September 1858 – 24 June 1941) was a Scottish philosopher and educator. He married twice, firstly to Maybanke Selfe Wolstenholme, and then to Josephine Wight who survived him, there were no children.\n\nFrancis Anderson was born in Glasgow, the son of Francis Anderson, manufacturer, and his wife Elizabeth Anna Lockart, née Ellison. Anderson was educated at Old Wynd and Oatlands public schools and became a pupil-teacher at the age of 14. He went on to the University of Glasgow, matriculating in 1876 and graduated M.A. in 1883. He was awarded Sir Richard Jebb's prize for Greek literature, took first place in the philosophical classes of Professors Veitch and Caird, and won two scholarships. For two years he was assistant to the professor of moral philosophy, studied in the theological faculty with the intention of entering the ministry, but apparently was not ordained.\n\nAnderson came to Melbourne in 1886 as assistant to the Rev. Dr Charles Strong at his Australian Church. This was a valuable experience to Anderson as his work brought him in contact with both the best and the worst types of human nature. In 1888, instead of returning to Scotland as originally intended, he was appointed lecturer in logic and mental philosophy at the University of Sydney, and was the first Challis professor of logic and mental philosophy from the beginning of 1890. He held this position until the end of 1921, when he retired and became emeritus professor.\n\nAnderson was president of the mental science and education section at the meeting of the Australasian Association for the Advancement of Science held at Brisbane in January 1895 and gave an address on \"Politics and Education\" and, on 26 June 1901, at a conference of teachers, in an address on \"The Public School System of New South Wales\", spoke frankly on \"the defects, limitations and needs of the existing system of education\". Mr J. Perry, the minister of public instruction, immediately called a conference of inspectors and principal officers of his department and' in 1902 J. W. Turner and Sir George Handley Knibbs were appointed as commissioners to inquire into educational systems in Europe and America. Their report confirmed Anderson's strictures, the pupil-teacher system was abolished, and the training of teachers at the Teachers' College was reconstructed. Thirteen years later Anderson was able to report an immense improvement in the state of education in New South Wales (see his chapter on \"Educational Policy and Development\" in the Federal Handbook prepared for the meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science held in Australia in 1914). Anderson was president of the social and statistical science section at the meeting of the Australasian Association for the Advancement of Science held at Adelaide in 1907 and gave an address on \"Liberalism and Socialism\". This was followed by a paper on \"Sociology in Australia. A Plea for its Teaching\" given at the Sydney meeting held in 1911. Following the discussion, a resolution was unanimously passed recommending the institution of a chair of sociology in Australia.\n\nAnderson was the inaugural editor of the \"Australasian Journal of Psychology and Philosophy\" 1923–1926, and he also took a great deal of interest in the tutorial classes and Workers' Education Association movements. Another interest was the League of Nations.\n\nWhen Anderson retired at the end of 1921, it was proposed to have his portrait painted but instead he suggested that a frieze emblematic of the history of philosophy should be placed in the philosophy lecture room of the university. Eventually two mural panels were painted for it by Norman Carter, one representing Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle, the other Descartes, Bacon, and Spinoza.\n\nAnderson was knighted in the 1936 King's Birthday Honours and died in Sydney on 24 June 1941. for \"educational and social welfare services\". Some of his papers and addresses were published separately as pamphlets. His monograph on \"Liberty, Equality and Fraternity\" was issued by the Association of Psychology and Philosophy.\n\n\nAdditional sources listed by the \"Dictionary of Australian Biography\":\n"}
{"id": "42156126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42156126", "title": "Francisco J. Ricardo", "text": "Francisco J. Ricardo\n\nFrancisco José Ricardo, Ph.D is a media philosopher, author, musician, theorist, and filmmaker. Ricardo is co-founder of the Digital Video Research Archive at Boston University, and is also the founding editor of the book series, \"International Texts in Critical Media Aesthetics\" published by Bloomsbury. This series focuses primarily on electronic, or digital art, and will publish its twelfth book in 2017. In 2013, Ricardo published \"The Engagement Aesthetic: Experiencing New Media Art through Critique\", in which he discusses different methods of reflecting on, interacting with, and critiquing new media art. As media and culture commentator, he examines the loss of reflection in social communication occurring in what he calls hashtag culture, characterized by diminished language, instinctive reactions and responses, a tendency to seek approval from others, and an obsession with certainty -- difficulties that he considers can be addressed by embracing expression through the arts and other self-directed creative activity. Ricardo has appeared on numerous radio talk shows to discuss this issue. \n\nFrancisco J. Ricardo was born in 1962 in Havana, Cuba. When he was seven, the family moved to Madrid, Spain, and two years later, to New York City. His father, an architect, and professor at the University of Havana, had studied under Josef Albers during Albers's residency in Havana. His mother had been a gymnast, and in the U.S. founded a \"Health Bauhaus\" based on alternative nutrition and numerous forms of exercise, yoga, and meditation. Ricardo studied at Harvard University, receiving a C.A.S [HGSE], and an Ed.M. Ricardo transferred during his doctoral work at Harvard to receive the first Ph.D. in Humanities Computing conferred in the U.S. at the pioneering University Professors Program of Boston University, where he worked as Research Associate, later teaching art theory at the Rhode Island School of Design.\n\nAfter teaching at RISD, writing and presenting on artists and new media art, including electronic or digital art (see selected articles), Ricardo decided that he could better show this art, which often employs moving images, through the medium of film. He left teaching and formed the documentary film production company, Conceptualist Films. Ricardo's vision is to create a new form of documentary on extraordinary artists and musicians - fewer \"talking heads\" and biographical material; instead, he wants to engage the viewer with unusual imagery while discussing ideas and philosophies in an experimental and accessible way.\n\nThe subject of his first documentary (released 2016) is on the creative art process of the multifaceted artist James Franco. Franco, once a student of Ricardo's at RISD, has a wide body of his own experimental art and film work which Ricardo explores in the film, according to the website for \"F FOR FRANCO.\" The film contains hours of conversations between Ricardo and Franco, in various places such as the LA Theater and The Chateau Marmont, as well as footage given by Franco to Ricardo of work rarely, if ever, seen before. The film had its world premiere at the Hollywood Film Festival in 2015, reviewed by Neon Tommy<ref>\n"}
{"id": "52630805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52630805", "title": "Georges Dicker", "text": "Georges Dicker\n\nGeorges Dicker is an American philosopher, currently a SUNY Distinguished Professor at The College at Brockport, State University of New York.\n"}
{"id": "46027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46027", "title": "Gerhard Gentzen", "text": "Gerhard Gentzen\n\nGerhard Karl Erich Gentzen (November 24, 1909 – August 4, 1945) was a German mathematician and logician. He made major contributions to the foundations of mathematics, proof theory, especially on natural deduction and sequent calculus. He died in 1945 after the Second World War, because he was deprived of food after being arrested in Prague.\n\nGentzen was a student of Paul Bernays at the University of Göttingen. Bernays was fired as \"non-Aryan\" in April 1933 and therefore Hermann Weyl formally acted as his supervisor. Gentzen joined the Sturmabteilung in November 1933 although he was by no means compelled to do so. Nevertheless he kept in contact with Bernays until the beginning of the Second World War. In 1935, he corresponded with Abraham Fraenkel in Jerusalem and was implicated by the Nazi teachers' union as one who \"keeps contacts to the Chosen People.\" In 1935 and 1936, Hermann Weyl, head of the Göttingen mathematics department in 1933 until his resignation under Nazi pressure, made strong efforts to bring him to the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton.\n\nBetween November 1935 and 1939 he was an assistant of David Hilbert in Göttingen. Gentzen joined the Nazi Party in 1937. In April 1939 Gentzen swore the oath of loyalty to Adolf Hitler as part of his academic appointment. From 1943 he was a teacher at the University of Prague. Under a contract from the SS Gentzen evidently worked for the V-2 project.\n\nGentzen was arrested during the citizens uprising against the occupying German forces on May 5, 1945. He, along with the rest of the staff of the German University in Prague was subsequently handed over to Russian forces. Because of his past association with the SA, NSDAP and NSD Dozentenbund, Gentzen was detained in a prison camp, where he died of malnutrition on August 4, 1945.\n\nGentzen's main work was on the foundations of mathematics, in proof theory, specifically natural deduction and the sequent calculus. His cut-elimination theorem is the cornerstone of proof-theoretic semantics, and some philosophical remarks in his \"Investigations into Logical Deduction\", together with Ludwig Wittgenstein's later work, constitute the starting point for inferential role semantics.\n\nOne of Gentzen's papers had a second publication in the ideological \"Deutsche Mathematik\" that was founded by Ludwig Bieberbach who promoted \"Aryan\" mathematics.\n\nGentzen proved the consistency of the Peano axioms in a paper published in 1936. In his Habilitationsschrift, finished in 1939, he determined the proof-theoretical strength of Peano arithmetic. This was done by a direct proof of the unprovability of the principle of transfinite induction, used in his 1936 proof of consistency, within Peano arithmetic. The principle can, however, be expressed in arithmetic, so that a direct proof of Gödel's incompleteness theorem followed. Gödel used a coding procedure to construct an unprovable formula of arithmetic. Gentzen's proof was published in 1943 and marked the beginning of ordinal proof theory.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20607025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20607025", "title": "Google Native Client", "text": "Google Native Client\n\nGoogle Native Client (NaCl) is a sandboxing technology for running either a subset of Intel x86, ARM, or MIPS native code, or a portable executable, in a sandbox. It allows safely running native code from a web browser, independent of the user operating system, allowing web apps to run at near-native speeds, which aligns with Google's plans for Chrome OS. It may also be used for securing browser plugins, and parts of other applications or full applications such as ZeroVM.\n\nTo demonstrate the readiness of the technology, on 9 December 2011, Google announced the availability of several new Chrome-only versions of games known for their rich and processor-intensive graphics, including \"Bastion\" (no longer supported on the Chrome Web Store). NaCl runs hardware-accelerated 3D graphics (via OpenGL ES 2.0), sandboxed local file storage, dynamic loading, full screen mode, and mouse capture. There are also plans to make NaCl available on handheld devices.\n\nPortable Native Client (PNaCl) is an architecture-independent version. PNaCl apps are compiled ahead-of-time. PNaCl is recommended over NaCl for most use cases. The general concept of NaCl (running native code in web browser) has been implemented before in ActiveX, which, while still in use, has full access to the system (disk, memory, user-interface, registry, etc.). Native Client avoids this issue by using sandboxing.\n\nAn alternative of sorts to NaCl is asm.js, which also allows applications written in C or C++ to be compiled to run in the browser (at more than half the native speed), and also supports ahead-of-time compilation, but is a subset of JavaScript and hence backwards-compatible with browsers that do not support it directly. Another alternative (while it may initially be powered by PNaCl) is WebAssembly.\n\nOn October 12, 2016, a comment on the Chromium issue tracker indicated that Google's Pepper and Native Client teams had been destaffed. On May 30, 2017, Google announced deprecation of PNaCl in favor of WebAssembly.\n\nNative Client is an open-source project being developed by Google. To date, \"Quake\", \"XaoS\", \"Battle for Wesnoth\", \"Doom\", \"Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light\", \"From Dust\", and MAME, as well as the sound processing system Csound, have been ported to Native Client. Native Client has been available in the Google Chrome web browser since version 14, and has been enabled by default since version 31, when the Portable Native Client (PNaCl, pronounced: pinnacle) was released.\n\nAn ARM implementation was released in March 2010. x86-64, IA-32, and MIPS are also supported.\n\nTo run an application portably under PNaCl, it must be compiled to an architecture-agnostic and stable subset of the LLVM intermediate representation bytecode. The executables are called PNaCl executables (pexes). The PNaCl Toolchain makes .pexe files; NaCl Toolchain .nexe files. The magic number of .nexe files is 0x7F 'E' 'L' 'F', which is ELF. In Chrome, they are translated to architecture-specific executables so that they can be run.\n\nNaCl uses software fault detection and isolation for sandboxing on x86-64 and ARM. The x86-32 implementation of Native Client is notable for its novel sandboxing method, which makes use of the x86 architecture's rarely used segmentation facility. Native Client sets up x86 segments to restrict the memory range that the sandboxed code can access. It uses a code verifier to prevent use of unsafe instructions such as those that perform system calls. To prevent the code from jumping to an unsafe instruction hidden in the middle of a safe instruction, Native Client requires that all indirect jumps be jumps to the start of 32-byte-aligned blocks, and instructions are not allowed to straddle these blocks. Because of these constraints, C and C++ code must be recompiled to run under Native Client, which provides customized versions of the GNU toolchain, specifically GNU Compiler Collection (GCC), GNU Binutils, and LLVM.\n\nNative Client is licensed under a BSD-style license.\n\nNative Client uses Newlib as its C library, but a port of GNU C Library (GNU libc) is also available.\n\nNaCl denotes sodium chloride, common table salt; as a pun, the name of pepper was also used. Pepper API is a cross-platform, open-source API for creating Native Client modules. Pepper Plugin API, or PPAPI is a cross-platform API for Native Client-secured web browser plugins, first based on Netscape's NPAPI, then rewritten from scratch. It is currently used in Chromium and Google Chrome to enable the PPAPI version of Adobe Flash and the built-in PDF viewer.\n\nOn 12 August 2009, a page on Google Code introduced a new project, Pepper, and the associated Pepper Plugin API (PPAPI), \"a set of modifications to NPAPI to make plugins more portable and more secure\". This extension is designed specifically to ease implementing out-of-process plugin execution. Further, the goals of the project are to provide a framework for making plugins fully cross-platform. Topics considered include:\n\nThe continuously evolving Pepper API also supports Gamepads (version 19) and WebSockets (version 18).\n\n, Google's open source browser, Chromium, was the only web browser to use the new browser plug-in model. As of 2015, Pepper is supported by Chrome, Chromium and Blink layout engine-based browsers such as Opera.\n\nMozilla Firefox stated in 2014 that they would not support Pepper, as there is no full specification of the API beyond its implementation in Chrome, which itself is designed for use with Blink layout engine only, and has private APIs specific to the Flash Player plugin which are not documented. In October 2016 Mozilla announced that it had re-considered and was exploring whether to incorporate the Pepper API and PDFium in future releases of Firefox, however no such steps were taken.\n\nOne website uses NaCL on the server to let users experiment with the Go programming language from their browsers.\n\nSome groups of browser developers support the Native Client technology, but others do not.\n\nChad Austin (of IMVU) praised the way Native Client can bring high-performance applications to the web (with about 5% penalty compared to native code) in a secure way, while also accelerating the evolution of client-side applications by giving a choice of the programming language used (besides JavaScript).\n\nId Software's John D. Carmack praised Native Client at QuakeCon 2012, saying: \"if you have to do something inside a browser, Native Client is much more interesting as something that started out as a really pretty darn clever x86 hack in the way that they could sandbox all of this in user mode interestingly. It's now dynamic recompilation, but something that you program in C or C++ and it compiles down to something that's going to be not your -O4 optimization level for completely native code but pretty damn close to native code. You could do all of your evil pointer chasings, and whatever you want to do as a to-the-metal game developer.\"\n\nOther IT professionals are more critical of this sandboxing technology as it has substantial or substantive interoperability issues.\n\nMozilla's vice president of products, Jay Sullivan, said that Mozilla has no plans to run native code inside the browser, as \"These native apps are just little black boxes in a webpage. [...] We really believe in HTML, and this is where we want to focus.\"\n\nMozilla's Christopher Blizzard criticized NaCl, claiming that native code cannot evolve in the same way that the source code-driven web can. He also compared NaCl to Microsoft's ActiveX technology, plagued with DLL Hell.\n\nHåkon Wium Lie, Opera's CTO, believes that \"NaCl seems to be 'yearning for the bad old days, before the web'\", and that \"Native Client is about building a new platform – or porting an old platform into the web [...] it will bring in complexity and security issues, and it will take away focus from the web platform.\"\n\nSecond Generation of Sandboxing developed in Google is gVisor. It is intended to replace NaCl in Google Cloud, to be more exact in Google App Engine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4009518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4009518", "title": "Harold Demsetz", "text": "Harold Demsetz\n\nHarold Demsetz (; born May 31, 1930) is an American professor emeritus of economics at the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA).\n\nDemsetz grew up on the West Side of Chicago, the grandchild of immigrants from central and eastern Europe. He studied engineering, forestry, and philosophy at four universities before being awarded a B.A. (1953) in economics from the University of Illinois, and an MBA (1954) and a Ph.D. (1959) from Northwestern University. While a graduate student, he published an article each in \"Econometrica\" and the \"Journal of Political Economy\".\n\nDemsetz taught at the University of Michigan (1958–60), UCLA, 1960–63, and the Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago, 1963–71. In 1971, he returned permanently to UCLA's Economics Department, which he chaired 1978–80. He held the Arthur Andersen UCLA Alumni Chair in Business Economics, 1986–95. He has been affiliated with the Center for Naval Analyses and the Hoover Institution.\n\nDemsetz is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a director of the Mont Pelerin Society, and a past (1996) president of the Western Economics Association.\n\nDemsetz belongs to the Chicago school of economic theory, and was one of the pioneers of the approach now called New Institutional Economics. He is a founder of the field of managerial economics. He has expanded the theory of property rights now prevalent in law and economics. Even though Demsetz never employed game theory, he is a major figure in industrial organization through his writings on the theory of the firm, antitrust policy, and business regulation. His expository style is devoid of mathematical formalism to an extent unusual for someone who began his career after 1950. His principal influences include Frank Knight and a number of colleagues: Armen Alchian, Ronald Coase, Aaron Director, and George Stigler.\n\nDemsetz was the first to propose emissions trading as a way of giving polluters an economic incentive to reduce their emissions of pollutants. He coined the term \"nirvana fallacy\" in 1969.\nThe 1972 Demsetz and Armen Alchian article \"Production, Information Costs and Economic Organization\" was selected as one of the twenty most important articles published in the first century of the \"American Economic Review\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "618454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=618454", "title": "Heinrich Blücher", "text": "Heinrich Blücher\n\nHeinrich Friedrich Ernst Blücher (29 January 1899 – 30 October 1970) was a German poet and philosopher. He was the second husband of Hannah Arendt.\n\nBlücher was born in Berlin. He was a member of the Communist Party of Germany until 1928, but soon rejected Stalinism and left the party in protest of its Stalinist policies. He then became a member of a small anti-Stalinist group called the Communist Party Opposition.\n\nAs a Communist (albeit anti-Stalinist), Blücher, had to flee Germany following the rise of National Socialism. He married Hannah Arendt in France, and they emigrated to New York City in 1941.\n\nHeinrich Blücher began teaching philosophy at Bard College in 1952, continuing for seventeen years, as well as at the New School for Social Research. Blücher died in New York. His wife Hannah Arendt was later buried alongside him at Bard College Cemetery.\n\nBlücher encouraged his wife to become involved with Marxism and political theory, though ultimately her use of Karl Marx was in no way orthodox, as shown in such works as \"The Origins of Totalitarianism\" (1951) and \"The Human Condition\" (1958). Blücher also coined the term \"the anti-political principle\" to describe totalitarianism's destruction of a \"space of resistance\" — a term taken up both by Arendt and Karl Jaspers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57435638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57435638", "title": "Infinite-valued logic", "text": "Infinite-valued logic\n\nIn logic, an infinite-valued logic (or real-valued logic or infinitely many-valued logic) is a many-valued logic in which truth values comprise a continuous range. Traditionally, in Aristotle's logic, logic other than bivalent logic was the norm, as the law of the excluded middle precluded more than two possible values (i.e., \"true\" and \"false\") for any proposition. Modern three-valued logic (ternary logic) allows for an additional possible truth value (i.e., \"undecided\") and is an example of finite-valued logic in which truth values are discrete, rather than continuous. Infinite-valued logic comprises continuous fuzzy logic, though fuzzy logic in some of its forms can further encompass finite-valued logic. For example, finite-valued logic can be applied in Boolean-valued modeling, description logics, and defuzzification of fuzzy logic.\n\nIsaac Newton and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz used both infinities and infinitesimals to develop the differential and integral calculus in the late 17th century. Richard Dedekind, who defined real numbers in terms of certain sets of rational numbers in the 19th century, also developed an axiom of continuity stating that a single correct value exists at the limit of any trial and error approximation. Felix Hausdorff demonstrated the logical possibility of an absolutely continuous ordering of words comprising bivalent values, each word having absolutely infinite length, in 1938. However, the definition of a random real number, meaning a real number that has no finite description whatsoever, remains somewhat in the realm of paradox.\n\nJan Łukasiewicz developed a system of three-valued logic in 1920. He generalized the system to many-valued logics in 1922 and went on to develop logics with formula_1 (infinite within a range) truth values. Kurt Gödel developed a deductive system, applicable for both finite- and infinite-valued first-order logic (a formal logic in which a predicate can refer to a single subject) as well as for intermediate logic (a formal intuitionistic logic usable to provide proofs such as a consistency proof for arithmetic), and showed in 1932 that logical intuition cannot be characterized by finite-valued logic.\n\nThe concept of expressing truth values as real numbers in the range between 0 and 1 can bring to mind the possibility of using complex numbers to express truth values. These truth values would have an imaginary dimension, for example between 0 and . Two- or higher-dimensional truth could potentially be useful in systems of paraconsistent logic. If practical applications were to arise for such systems, multidimensional infinite-valued logic could develop as a concept independent of real-valued logic.\n\nLotfi A. Zadeh proposed a formal methodology of fuzzy logic and its applications in the early 1970s. By 1973, other researchers were applying the theory of Zadeh fuzzy controllers to various mechanical and industrial processes. The fuzzy modeling concept that evolved from this research was applied to neural networks in the 1980s and to machine learning in the 1990s. The formal methodology also led to generalizations of mathematical theories in the family of t-norm fuzzy logics.\n\nBasic fuzzy logic is the logic of continuous t-norms (binary operations on the real unit interval [0, 1]). Applications involving fuzzy logic include facial recognition systems, home appliances, anti-lock braking systems, automatic transmissions, controllers for rapid transit systems and unmanned aerial vehicles, knowledge-based and engineering optimization systems, weather forecasting, pricing, and risk assessment modeling systems, medical diagnosis and treatment planning and commodities trading systems, and more. Fuzzy logic is used to optimize efficiency in thermostats for control of heating and cooling, for industrial automation and process control, computer animation, signal processing, and data analysis. Fuzzy logic has made significant contributions in the fields of machine learning and data mining.\n\nIn infinitary logic, degrees of provability of propositions can be expressed in terms of infinite-valued logic that can be described via evaluated formulas, written as ordered pairs each consisting of a truth degree symbol and a formula.\n\nIn mathematics, number-free semantics can express facts about classical mathematical notions and make them derivable by logical deductions in infinite-valued logic. T-norm fuzzy logics can be applied to eliminate references to real numbers from definitions and theorems, in order to simplify certain mathematical concepts and facilitate certain generalizations. A framework employed for number-free formalization of mathematical concepts is known as fuzzy class theory.\n\nPhilosophical questions, including the Sorites paradox, have been considered based on an infinite-valued logic known as fuzzy epistemicism. The Sorites paradox suggests that if adding a grain of sand to something that is not a heap cannot create a heap, then a heap of sand cannot be created. A stepwise approach toward a limit, in which truth is gradually \"leaked\", tends to refute that suggestion.\n\nIn the study of logic itself, infinite-valued logic has served as an aid to understand the nature of the human understanding of logical concepts. Kurt Gödel attempted to comprehend the human ability for logical intuition in terms of finite-valued logic before concluding that the ability is based on infinite-valued logic. Open questions remain regarding the handling, in natural language semantics, of indeterminate truth values.\n\n"}
{"id": "12575603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12575603", "title": "Intellectual honesty", "text": "Intellectual honesty\n\nIntellectual honesty is an applied method of problem solving, characterized by an unbiased, honest attitude, which can be demonstrated in a number of different ways:\n\n\nHarvard ethicist Louis M. Guenin describes the \"kernel\" of intellectual honesty to be \"a virtuous disposition to eschew deception when given an incentive for deception\".\n\nIntentionally committed fallacies in debates and reasoning are called intellectual dishonesty.\n\n"}
{"id": "1280889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1280889", "title": "Johannes Clauberg", "text": "Johannes Clauberg\n\nJohannes Clauberg (24 February 1622 – 31 January 1665) was a German theologian and philosopher. Clauberg was the founding Rector of the first University of Duisburg, where he taught from 1655 to 1665. He is known as a \"scholastic cartesian\".\n\nHe was born in Solingen, and educated in the Aristotelian tradition in Köln, Moers and Bremen, then in Groningen, where he discovered what came to be called the reformed variation of Aristotelianism. He gave his first disputations in Groningen under the supervision of Tobias Andreae. His first treatise in metaphysics was written in those student years: \"Elementa philosophiae sive Ontosophia\" (1647). Travelling in France and England, he came to study the Cartesian philosophy under Johannes de Raey at Leiden. In 1649, he became professor of philosophy and theology at Herborn, but subsequently (1651), in consequence of the jealousy of his colleagues, accepted an invitation to a similar post at Duisburg.\n\nClauberg was one of the earliest teachers of the new doctrines in Germany and an exact and methodical commentator on his masters writings. His theory of the connection between the soul and the body is in some respects analogous to that of Malebranche; but he is not therefore to be regarded as a true forerunner of Occasionalism, as he uses Occasion for the stimulus which directly produces a mental phenomenon, without postulating the intervention of God. His view of the relation of God to his creatures is held to foreshadow the pantheism of Spinoza. All creatures exist only through the continuous creative energy of the Divine Being, and are no more independent of his will than are our thoughts independent of us, or rather less, for there are thoughts which force themselves upon us whether we will or not.\n\nMetaphysics, in Clauberg's conception, studies not the being (ens), but the intelligible, as in the most general object of the intellect (\"ens cogitabile\"). The most high concept is not being, but the object in general as known to the intellect. For metaphysics Clauberg suggested the names \"ontosophy or ontology\", the latter being afterwards adopted by Wolff. In the prolegomena to his \"Elementa philosophiae sive Ontosophiae\" (1647), Clauberg says:\n\nÉtienne Gilson writes:\n\nClauberg died in Duisburg, and lies buried in the city's cathedral.\n\nA collected edition of his philosophical works was published at Amsterdam (1691), with life by H. C. Hennin; see also E. Zeller, \"Geschichte der deutschen Philosophie seit Leibnitz\" (1873).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1757117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1757117", "title": "Manly P. Hall", "text": "Manly P. Hall\n\nManly Palmer Hall (March 18, 1901 – August 29, 1990) was a Canadian-born author, lecturer, astrologer and mystic. He is best known for his 1928 work \"The Secret Teachings of All Ages\". Over his 70 year career, he gave thousands of lectures, including two at Carnegie Hall, and published over 150 volumes. In 1934, he founded The Philosophical Research Society in Los Angeles, which he dedicated to the \"Truth Seekers of All Time\", with a research library, lecture hall and publishing house. Many of his lectures can be found online and his books are still in print.\n\nManly P. Hall was born in 1901 in Peterborough, Ontario, Canada, to William S. Hall, a dentist, and Louise Palmer Hall, a chiropractor and member of the Rosicrucian Fellowship. In 1919 Hall, who never knew his father, moved from Canada to Los Angeles, California, with his maternal grandmother to reunite with his birth mother, who was living in Santa Monica, and was almost immediately drawn to the arcane world of mysticism, esoteric philosophies, and their underlying principles. Hall delved deeply into \"teachings of lost and hidden traditions, the golden verses of Hindu gods, Greek philosophers and Christian mystics, and the spiritual treasures waiting to be found within one's own soul.\" Less than a year later, Hall booked his first lecture, and the topic was reincarnation.\n\nHe soon took over as preacher of the Church of the People in 1919, at Trinity Auditorium in downtown Los Angeles. Hall was ordained a minister in the Church of the People on May 17, 1923, and \"a few days later, he was elected permanent pastor of the church.\"\n\nHis first publications consisted of two small pamphlets, \"The Breastplate of the High Priest\" (1920), and \"Wands and Serpents.\" Between 1921 and 1923 he wrote three books, \"The Initiates of the Flame\" published in October 1922, \"The Ways of the Lonely Ones\" published in 1922, and \"The Lost Keys of Freemasonry\" published in March 1923. Hall did not become a Freemason until 1954, more than thirty years after this book was published.\n\nDuring the early 1920s, Carolyn Lloyd and her daughter Estelle—members of a family that controlled a valuable oil field in Ventura County, California—began \"sending a sizeable portion of their oil income to Hall,\" who used the money to travel and acquire a substantial personal library of ancient literature. Hall's \"first trip around the world to study the lives, customs and religions of countries in Asia and Europe,\" which commenced December 5, 1923, was paid for by donations from Carolyn Lloyd and her congregation.\n\nLater in 1928, at the age of 27 years, he published \"An Encyclopedic Outline of Masonic, Hermetic, Qabbalistic and Rosicrucian Symbolical Philosophy: Being an Interpretation of the Secret Teachings concealed within the Rituals, Allegories and Mysteries of all Ages\", which is more commonly referred to as \"The Secret Teachings of All Ages\". The major books which followed include \"The Dionysian Artificers\" (1936), \"Freemasonry of the Ancient Egyptians\" (1937), and \"Masonic Orders of Fraternity\" (1950).\n\nHall became sufficiently known and respected as a lecturer and interpreter of the writings of the ancients, and the most useful and practical elements of classical idealism, that he successfully appealed, through advertisements and word of mouth, for funds to finance the book that became \"The Secret Teachings of All Ages - An Encyclopedia Outline of Masonic, Hermetic, Qabbalistic and Rosicrucian Symbolic Philosophy\", whose original cost of publication in 1928 was estimated to be $150,000, although the price of individual copies varied. According to original subscription agreements on file at the Philosophical Research Society, editions were sold by subscription for $75 on a pre-publication basis, but \"the price of this edition after delivery by the printer is understood to be One Hundred Dollars.\" Under the subscription terms, $15 was due at signing of the agreement, and \"the balance of Sixty Dollars in four equal monthly payments each.\" The H.S. Crocker Company of San Francisco agreed to publish the book \"if Hall could secure the interest of book designer John Henry Nash, who once worked as a printer to the Vatican.\"\n\nAfter \"The Secret Teachings of All Ages\" was published, Hall \"went from being just another earnest young preacher in the City of Angels to becoming an icon of the increasingly influential metaphysical movement sweeping the country in the 1920s. His book challenged assumptions about society's spiritual roots and made people look at them in new ways.\" Hall dedicated \"The Secret Teachings of All Ages\" to \"the proposition that concealed within the emblematic figures, allegories and rituals of the ancients is a secret doctrine concerning the inner mysteries of life, which doctrine has been preserved \"in toto\" among a small band of initiated minds.\" As one writer put it: \"The result was a gorgeous, dreamlike book of mysterious symbols, concise essays and colorful renderings of mythical beasts rising out of the sea, and angelic beings with lions' heads presiding over somber initiation rites in torch-lit temples of ancestral civilizations that had mastered latent powers beyond the reach of modern man.\" In 1988, Hall himself wrote: \"The greatest knowledge of all time should be available to the twentieth century not only in the one shilling editions of the Bohn Library in small type and shabby binding, but in a book that would be a monument, not merely a coffin. John Henry Nash agreed with me.\"\n\nHall and his followers went to extreme lengths to keep any gossip or information that could tarnish his image from being publicized, and little is known about his first marriage, on April 28, 1930, to Fay B. deRavenne, then 28, who had been his secretary during the preceding five years. The marriage was not a happy one; his friends never discussed it, and Hall removed virtually all information about her from his papers following her suicide on February 22, 1941. Following a long friendship, on December 5, 1950, Hall married Marie Schweikert Bauer (following her divorce from George Bauer), and the marriage though stormy was happier than his first. Marie Schweikert Bauer Hall died April 21, 2005. She was born on June 24, 1904.\n\nDuring the early 1930s, using money from the Lloyds, \"Hall traveled to France and England, where he acquired his most extensive collection of rare books and manuscripts in alchemy and esoteric fields from London auctioneer, Sotheby & Company.\" Through an agent, due to the depressed economic conditions of the era, Hall was able to buy a substantial number of rare books and manuscripts at reasonable prices. When Caroline Lloyd died in 1946, she bequeathed Hall a home, $15,000 in cash, and \"a roughly $10,000 portion of her estate's annual income from shares in the world's largest oil companies for 38 years.\"\n\nIn 1934, Hall founded the Philosophical Research Society (PRS) in Los Angeles, California, a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization dedicated to the study of religion, mythology, metaphysics, and the occult.\n\nHe was a Knight Patron of the Masonic Research Group of San Francisco, with which he was associated for a number of years prior to his Masonic affiliations. On June 28, 1954, Hall initiated as a Freemason into Jewel Lodge No. 374, San Francisco (now the United Lodge); passed September 20, 1954; and raised November 22, 1954. He took the Scottish Rite Degrees a year later.\nHe later received his 32° in the Valley of San Francisco AASR (SJ). On December 8, 1973 (47 years after writing \"The Secret Teachings of All Ages\"), Hall was recognized as a 33° Mason (the highest honor conferred by the Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite) at a ceremony held at the Philosophical Research Society (PRS)).\n\nIn his over 70-year career, Hall delivered approximately 8,000 lectures in the United States and abroad, authored over 150 books and essays, and wrote countless magazine articles. He appears in the introduction to the 1938 film \"When Were You Born\", a murder mystery that uses astrology as a key plot point. Hall wrote the original story for the film (screenplay by Anthony Coldeway) and is also credited as the narrator.\n\nIn 1942, Manly Hall spoke to an attendance-setting audience at Carnegie Hall, on \"The Secret Destiny of America,\" which later became a book of the same title. He returned in 1945 for another well-attended lecture at the famous venue, titled: \"Plato's Prophecy of Worldwide Democracy.\" \n\nThe PRS still maintains a research library of over 50,000 volumes, and also sells and publishes metaphysical and spiritual books, mostly those authored by Hall.\n\nAfter his death, some of Manly Hall's rare alchemy books were sold to keep the PRS in operation. \"Acquisition of the Manly Palmer Hall Collection in 1995 provided the Getty Research Institute with one of the world's leading collections of alchemy, esoterica, and hermetica.\"\n\nIt was reported in 2010 that President Ronald Reagan adopted some ideas and phrasing from Hall’s book \"The Secret Destiny of America\" (1944), using them in speeches and essays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12893077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12893077", "title": "Martin A. Hainz", "text": "Martin A. Hainz\n\nMartin Andreas Hainz (born March 5, 1974, in Vienna, Austria) is an Austrian philologist, theorist and philosopher. He has taught at several universities in Europe and the United States, among them the universities of Vienna, Timişoara and Iaşi. He is a member of the \"Northeastern Language Association\" (NEMLA). His main interests are contemporary German and especially Austrian philosophy and literature. He is a scholar of Wendelin Schmidt-Dengler.\n\nHainz's works deal with Paul Celan and Rose Ausländer as well as Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock; he is also considered to be one of today's most important advocates of Jacques Derrida's deconstruction. His interdisciplinary work has often led to surprising insights; this is especially true concerning Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock, who is an ambivalent thinker and poet between sensibility, belief and inspiration. Hainz has shown that, from a dialectical perspective, poetry is the \"rational awareness that is adequate to (Jewish-Christian) believing and faith\" (\"Poesie ist also der dem Glauben angemessene Wachzustand\").\n\nHainz' researches into some nearly forgotten, but nevertheless important authors and thinkers such as Leopold von Sacher-Masoch, Alfred Margul-Sperber and Constantin Brunner are also of merit. He has done important research dealing with multiculturalism and its opportunities and history in Czernowitz, which is considered to be a paradigm for multicultural societies. These works have led Hainz to some research on translation and its theory; his volume \"Vom Glück sich anzustecken\" (\"Being affected by Luck\" or \"The Luck of Being Infected\") has been discussed intensely. Vincent Kling in his review considered it to be \"beyond praise\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5038924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5038924", "title": "Meraj Muhammad Khan", "text": "Meraj Muhammad Khan\n\nMeraj Muhammad Khan Afridi (; 20 October 1938 – 21 July 2016), was a Pakistani socialist politician and philosopher. He played a key role in founding of Pakistan's 2 major (except ML) and 1 minor political parties. He was noted as one of the key philosopher and founding personality of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and as a major contributor to the initial Left of Centre/Social Democratic so-called the Basic Programme of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI). He was also founder of Qaumi Mahaz-i-Azadi which he founded after leaving PPP in 1977.\n\nIn addition, he is well known and influential socialist figure in the country, and known for his political struggle and advocacy against anti-capitalist convergence and the support of the social democracy.\n\nMeraj Muhammad Khan was born on 20 October 1938 in Farrukhabad, Uttar Pradesh, British Indian Empire to an educated Pukhto speaking family of Zakha Khel Afridi tribe of Pashtun origin. He was the youngest of four sons and his father, Hakeem Molvi Taj Muhammad Khan, was a homoeopath who practised the methods of Greek medicine in Quetta, Balochistan. His elder brother was the famous renown Pakistani journalist Minhaj Barna.\n\nAfter graduating from local high school in 1956, Khan moved to Karachi where he attended DJ Science College and later pursued his higher education at Karachi University in 1957. He earned a BA in philosophy and humanities in 1960, and an MA in philosophy in 1962.\n\nHe came to public prominence in 1960s while studying at Karachi University. During this time, there was a debating competition in which students from all the colleges of Karachi were participating. At this competition, some activists of the Communist Party were sitting in the audience, who asked him to join the Communist Party.\n\nHe became an active member of the National Students Federation, eventually becoming NSF's president in 1963. Khan turned the NSF into a militant student political organisation that campaigned for the rights of students. In 1967, he left the NSF after secretly learning of a socialist convention being held in Lahore, Punjab.\n\nHe was among those who founded the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and fully endorsed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto for the PPP's chairmanship. Through the PPP, he went into mainstream politics and successfully contested in the 1970 general elections on a PPP platform from the Karachi constituency.\n\nIn December 1971, Khan was appointed Minister for Manpower and directed the Ministry of Labour (MoL) in Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto's government. In 1972, his tenure saw a major labour strike in Karachi; though it was peacefully resolved by Meraj's intervention. It was later reported in newspapers and television that the labour strike was actually a competition between two PPP ministers, Meraj and Law Minister Abdul Hafiz Pirzada for the control of the labour.\n\nMeraj's radical leftist group was in direct competition against Law Minister Pirzada's Pro-Peking group. However, Meraj's denied all accusations on the television.\n\nIn 1973, Mairaj fell out with the Bhutto government when Bhutto started to compromise on his so-called Socialist agenda and the regime resorted to repressive measures. As time passee, his differences with Prime Minister Bhutto grew and he left the PPP to reorganise the NSF. However, Miraj fell into political isolation, never to regain his political credibility and popularity.\n\nCommenting on PPP, Meraj later revealed that \"the radical (leftist) rhetoric was more than a mask designed to win and retain power.\" He once said: \"Ali Bhutto was a great man ... but he could be cruel.\"\n\nAfter leaving the PPP, he became a prominent democratic activist and leftist leader of the Movement for Restoration of Democracy (MRD) opposing the military government of President General Zia-ul-Haq.\n\nIn 1998, he joined the center-left/centrist Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) headed by Imran Khan, but resigned from the party in 2003, citing differences with Khan. He then joined the Mazdoor Kisan Party, which later merged with the Communist Party of Pakistan to form the Communist Mazdoor Kissan Party. He died in Karachi on 21 July 2016.\n\n11. http://www.newspakistan.pk/2011/11/04/A-tribute-to-My-grandfather-Minhaj-Barna/\n"}
{"id": "317827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317827", "title": "Morton's fork", "text": "Morton's fork\n\nA Morton's fork is a type of false dilemma in which contradictory observations lead to the same conclusion. It is said to have originated with the collecting of taxes by John Morton.\n\nThe earliest known use of the term dates from the mid-19th century and the only known earlier mention is a claim by Francis Bacon of an extant tradition.\n\nUnder Henry VII John Morton was made archbishop of Canterbury in 1486, then Lord Chancellor in 1487. He raised taxation funds for his king by holding that someone living modestly must be saving money and, therefore, could afford taxes, whereas someone living extravagantly obviously was rich and, therefore, could afford taxes.\n\nIn some instances, such as Morton's original use of the fallacy, it may be that one of the two observations is probably valid, but the other is pure sophistry: evidence of possessing wealth may be genuinely irrelevant to having a source of taxable income.\n\nIn other cases, it may be that neither observation may be relied upon to support the conclusion properly. For example, asserting that a person suspected of a crime who is acting nervously must have something to feel guilty about, while a person who acts calmly and confidently must be practised or skilled at hiding guilt. Either observation therefore has little, if any, probative value, as each could equally be evidence for the opposite conclusion.\n\n\"Morton's fork coup\" is a maneuver in the game of bridge that uses the principle of Morton's Fork.\n\nAn episode of the television series \"Fargo\" is entitled \"Morton's Fork\", after the dilemma. It is also mentioned in NCIS Los Angeles season 5 episode 16, \"Fish Out of Water.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30657743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30657743", "title": "Myroslav Popovych", "text": "Myroslav Popovych\n\nMyroslav Popovych (; 12 April 1930, Zhytomyr – 10 February 2018, Kyiv) was a Ukrainian philosopher, DA, professor, Academician of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.\n\nPopovych was born on 12 April 1930 in Zhytomyr, in the Ukrainian SSR of the Soviet Union (in present-day Ukraine). In 1953 he graduated from the Taras Shevchenko University of Kiev, philosophy department. From 2001 he is the director of the Skovoroda Institute of Philosophy of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. In 2003 he was elected Academician of the Ukrainian National Academy of Sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13886123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13886123", "title": "Noology", "text": "Noology\n\nNoology derives from the ancient Greek words νοῦς, \"nous\" or \"mind\" and λόγος, \"logos\". Noology thus outlines a systematic study and organization of thought, knowledge and the mind.\n\nIn the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", Immanuel Kant uses \"noology\" synonymously with rationalism, distinguishing it from empiricism: \n\nThe Spanish philosopher Xavier Zubiri developed his own notion of noology.\n\nThe term is also used to describe the science of intellectual phenomena. It is the study of images of thought, their emergence, their genealogy, and their creation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42650568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42650568", "title": "Patricia Greenspan", "text": "Patricia Greenspan\n\nPatricia Greenspan is a professor of philosophy at the University of Maryland, College Park. Greenspan works in analytic philosophy of action, and is known for work on rationality, morality, and emotion that helped to create a place for emotion in philosophy of action and ethics.\n\nShe is the author of two books, \"Emotions and Reasons\" and \"Practical Guilt\", and numerous articles and book chapters. Her work is cited both within philosophy (especially aesthetics) and in a number of areas, including medicine, law, theology, and education along with non-scholarly venues. She has given presentations in the U.S. and abroad to interdisciplinary conferences and philosophy department colloquia.\n\nGreenspan graduated from Barnard College, Columbia University summa cum laude with a B.A. in philosophy in 1966. In 1972 she received her Ph.D. from the Harvard University Philosophy Department, receiving the Emily and Charles Carrier Award for the best dissertation in moral philosophy. She then moved to an Assistant Professor position at the University of Chicago, where in 1979 she was awarded tenure and promoted to Associate Professor in the Department of Philosophy and the College. In 1980 she accepted an offer from the University of Maryland, College Park, where she was promoted to full Professor in 1989. Greenspan served as an Andrew Mellon Fellow at the University of Pittsburgh for the 1975-76 year, and has received several research fellowships, including from the National Endowment for the Humanities (1983–84), the National Humanities Center (1990–91), and the Research School of Social Science at the Australian National University (1995).\n\nGreenspan’s principal research interests lie in moral philosophy, moral psychology, and the philosophy of action. Her work has ranged among several interconnected subtopics, as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24089125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24089125", "title": "Peter Aczel", "text": "Peter Aczel\n\nPeter Henry George Aczel (; born October 31, 1941) is a British mathematician, logician and Emeritus joint Professor in the School of Computer Science and the School of Mathematics at the University of Manchester. He is known for his work in non-well-founded set theory, constructive set theory, and Frege structures.\n\nAczel completed his Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics in 1963 followed by a DPhil at the University of Oxford in 1966 under the supervision of John Crossley.\n\nAfter two years of visiting positions at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and Rutgers University Aczel took a position at the University of Manchester. He has also held visiting positions at the University of Oslo, California Institute of Technology, Utrecht University, Stanford University and Indiana University Bloomington. He was a visiting scholar at the Institute for Advanced Study in 2012.\n\nAczel is on the editorial board of the Notre Dame Journal of Formal Logic and the Cambridge Tracts in Theoretical Computer Science, having previously served on the editorial boards of the Journal of Symbolic Logic and the Annals of Pure and Applied Logic.\n"}
{"id": "8382545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8382545", "title": "Peter Crockaert", "text": "Peter Crockaert\n\nPeter Crockaert (c. 1465–1514), known as Peter of Brussels, was a Flemish scholastic philosopher. Initially he was a pupil of John Mair and a follower of William of Ockham. Later he joined the Dominican Order, and became a supporter of orthodox Thomism. He taught at the University of Paris, and is known for a number of commentaries, on Aristotle and Peter of Spain as well as on Aquinas.\n"}
{"id": "54608109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54608109", "title": "Pride Cymru", "text": "Pride Cymru\n\nPride Cymru (previously Cardiff Mardi Gras) is a Pride festival held annually in Cardiff, Wales. \n\nThe first Cardiff Mardi Gras took place in Bute Park, Cardiff, in September 1999. The event was an immediate success with over 5,000 attending. By 2001, the number of attendees had grown to 20,000.\n\nThe 2008 event was cancelled owing to lack of support, but it has been held every year from 2009. Cardiff Mardi Gras became a registered charity in 2010 and changed its name to Pride Cymru in 2014. Since 2012 the event has included a parade through Cardiff city centre.\n\nIn 2016, there was a rumour started that Cardiff Council had dropped support for the event.\n\nUnder intense pressure, Cardiff Council reversed its decision and awarded Pride Cymru a slot later in August to move it away from other major events taking place. The organisers would instead take over the running of the Council's Big Weekend open-air music festival.\n\nIn 2017, Pride Cymru took control of the Cardiff Council's 'Big Weekend' and combined it with their LGBT pride parade to form Pride Cymrus Big Weekend. , the event is due to continue for at least five years.\n\n"}
{"id": "43818497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43818497", "title": "Quantum Reality", "text": "Quantum Reality\n\nQuantum Reality is a 1985 popular science book by physicist Nick Herbert, a member the Fundamental Fysiks Group which was formed to explore the philosophical implications of quantum theory. The book attempts to address the ontology of quantum objects, their attributes, and their interactions, without reliance on advanced mathematical concepts. Herbert discusses the most common interpretations of quantum mechanics and their consequences in turn, highlighting the conceptual advantages and drawbacks of each.\n\nFollowing a brief summary of the experimental crises (such as the ultraviolet catastrophe) which motivated quantum theory, Herbert identifies four major formulations of quantum theory: Werner Heisenberg's matrix mechanics, Erwin Schrödinger's wave mechanics, Paul Dirac's transformation theory, and Richard Feynman's sum-over-histories formulation.\n\nIn introducing quantum objects (which he dubs \"quons\"), Herbert describes how quantum properties inhere in a wave function, which serves as a proxy for the measurement of these properties. He likens the quantum measurement process to mathematically treating the wave function as a summation of waveforms of a particular family, with various families corresponding to particular properties. The bandwidth of the spectrum of these waveforms represents the uncertainty in the quantum measurement. Herbert shows that for pairs of conjugate variables, such as position and momentum, these bandwidths are linked such that their product has a finite lower bound, thereby illustrating the basis of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle: any \"single\" property can be measured to arbitrary precision, but conjugate properties cannot \"simultaneously\" be known to arbitrary precision.\n\nHerbert identifies two philosophical problems presented by quantum theory—the \"interpretation question\", concerning the physical nature of the reality underlying observation; and the \"measurement problem\", concerning the apparently special role of the measurement act in quantum theory, and various approaches to formally defining the measurement act.\n\nHerbert identifies eight interpretations of quantum mechanics, all consistent with observation and with the aforementioned mathematical formalisms. He likens these different interpretations to the story of the blind men and an elephant—different approaches to the same underlying reality, which yield remarkably different (but often overlapping) pictures. The interpretations identified by Herbert are:\n\nAdding a further wrinkle to the nature of quantum reality, Herbert presents the EPR paradox, and its resolution in the form of Bell's theorem. The EPR paradox, resting on the long-held assumption of locality, suggests the existence of \"elements of reality\"—unmeasured quantum attributes which are nonetheless real—which are not predicted by quantum theory. Bell's theorem resolves this paradox by proving that locality is ruled out by observation—that any model of reality consistent with observation \"must\" allow for non-local interaction. However, Herbert is careful to note, Bell's theorem does not entail any prediction of experimentally observable non-local \"phenomena\", nor does it allow for superluminal communication.\n\nHerbert then re-evaluates the aforementioned interpretations of quantum reality in light of Bell's theorem:\n\n\nHerbert concludes that, although Bell's theorem does not preclude any of the aforementioned interpretations of quantum mechanics, it insists that any valid interpretation \"must\" allow for non-local interaction.\n\nIn its review of \"Quantum Reality\", \"The New York Times\" praised Herbert's efforts at making the subject matter comprehensible to a lay audience. Physicist Heinz Pagels called \"Quantum Reality\" \"a great place for the general reader to begin to learn about quantum physics\". \"Kirkus Reviews\", however, concluded that \"Quantum Reality\", while engaging, may leave lay readers confused.\n\nPost-anarchist writer Hakim Bey used \"Quantum Reality\" as the basis for an analysis of the field of quantum physics in terms of the social paradigms that it may influence, and from which it may draw its metaphors.\n\nPhysicist David Kaiser, who has written about the Fundamental Fysiks Group to which Herbert belonged, claims that the book is used in undergraduate physics courses.\n\n\"Quantum Reality\" has been translated into German, Japanese, and Portuguese.\n\n"}
{"id": "52121362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52121362", "title": "Raphael Demos", "text": "Raphael Demos\n\nRaphael Demos (; January 23, 1892 – August 8, 1968) was Alford Professor of Natural Religion, Moral Philosophy and Civil Polity, emeritus, at Harvard University and an authority on the work of the Greek philosopher Plato. At Harvard, he taught Martin Luther King Jr.\n\nDemos was born to Ottoman Greek parents at Smyrna (now Izmir), in the Ottoman Empire, on January 23, 1892. His father had been converted to evangelical Christianity by missionaries and had become an evangelical minister. Demos was brought up in Constantinople, and earned his A.B. degree in 1910 from Anatolia College in Marsovan.\n\nAccording to the recollections of Bertrand Russell, Demos saved up and traveled steerage to the United States specifically to improve his education, having read all the books available to him at home. Arriving in Boston in 1913 without money, he first worked as a waiter in a restaurant and then as a janitor in the Harvard student halls of residence in order to fund his tuition at the university. He studied under Bertrand Russell, who was temporarily at Harvard, and Russell found Demos to be one of his best students and was impressed by his enthusiasm for philosophy which he found refreshing. Demos obtained his PhD in 1916 for a dissertation titled \"The Definition of Judgment\". He was naturalized as an American citizen in 1921.\n\nDemos married Jean and they had a son, John Demos, who attended Harvard University and was a Guggenheim Fellow in United States history in 1977, and a daughter, Penny, who attended Radcliffe College. Jean was on the staff of the New England Conservatory of Music from where she later received an honorary doctor of music degree. Demos's sister, Dorothy Demetracopoulou, graduated from Vassar College in 1927.\n\nDemos began his academic career at Harvard as an assistant in philosophy in 1916–17, rising to assistant professor in 1926. He studied at the University of Cambridge in 1918–19. He was a Guggenheim Fellow in 1927, awarded for \"a study of the philosophy of evolution and social philosophy, principally in Paris, France\", for which he studied at the University of Paris in 1928–29. In 1934, Demos lectured on Plato's social program, arguing that Fascism and Communism had their roots in his philosophy. He became Alford Professor of Natural Religion, Moral Philosophy and Civil Polity in 1945 in succession to William E. Hocking and he was a member of the Doty committee which produced the report \"General education in a free society\" completed the same year. He was a fellow of Adams House. In 1956, he received an award from the Rockefeller Foundation, as well as from the American Philosophy Association in 1959 and the Littauer Foundation in 1960.\n\nDemos retired from Harvard in 1962 after which he taught at Vanderbilt University in 1962–63 and 1964–67. He taught at McGill University in Montreal in 1963–64.\n\nIn May 1963, Demos wrote to Martin Luther King Jr. asking whether King had ever been a student of his at Harvard. King replied to say that he had attended the university for two years as a special student and taken Demos's course on the Philosophy of Plato for which he had received an A from Demos. Coincidentally, King's wife, Coretta, had studied with Demos's wife Jean at the New England Conservatory of Music.\n\nDemos died of a heart attack on 8 August 1968 while on board the S.S. \"Anna Maria\" returning to the United States. He had been living in Athens with his wife since 1967, teaching on a university year in Athens course. His papers relating to Aristotle are held in the archives of Harvard University. A volume of essays in Demos's honour was issued in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46554038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46554038", "title": "Sanjay's Super Team", "text": "Sanjay's Super Team\n\nSanjay's Super Team is a computer-animated short film produced by Pixar Animation Studios. Written and directed by Sanjay Patel, and based on his childhood, it premiered on June 15, 2015 at the Annecy International Animated Film Festival in France, and accompanied the theatrical release of Pixar's \"The Good Dinosaur\" on November 25, 2015.\n\nInspired by Patel's own childhood when he felt conflicted by the modern world and the Hindu traditions of his family, \"Sanjay's Super Team\" follows the daydream of a young Indian boy, bored with his father's religious meditation, who imagines Hindu gods as superheroes.\n\nAn intertitle card at the start of the short states that it is based on a (mostly) true story.\n\nA young boy, Sanjay, is watching his favorite superhero show, \"Super Team\", while his father is trying to meditate at a small Hindu shrine in the same room at home. \n\nEach is annoyed by the other's activity until Sanjay's father turns off the television, confiscates his son's \"Super Team\" action figure, and makes him participate in prayer. Sanjay retrieves the toy while his father is distracted, but accidentally sets its cape on fire from the shrine's oil lamp. While putting out the cape, he extinguishes the lamp as well and is transported to a temple with three stone statues. \n\nSuddenly, Ravana appears and begins to steal the statues' weapons, shattering them in the process. Sanjay breaks the light up mechanism in his toy and uses it to light the giant lamp in the middle of the room, bringing the statues to life as the gods Vishnu, Durga, and Hanuman. The gods begin to fend off Ravana's attacks and ring their bells to drive him back, but he retaliates. \n\nSanjay recognizes the giant lamp as an upside down bell and breaks his toy on it to ring it aloud, calming Ravana so that he departs the temple. Sanjay receives a new toy from Vishnu as well as his blessing, then finds himself back in the real world, the cape on his action figure unburnt. His father allows him to continue watching \"Super Team\", and Sanjay surprises him with a drawing that shows the gods watching over the cartoon heroes.\n\nThe story ends with real life pictures of Sanjay Patel and his father, during his childhood and in the present day.\n\nThe inspiration for the short film came from Patel's own childhood, growing up in San Bernardino in the 1980s, in a family of Indian immigrants. Like many American children of the era, he played with Transformers, watched \"Looney Tunes\" cartoons and read \"Superman\" comics. He also performed daily Hindu rituals of meditation and prayer with his father. He felt conflicted by his parents' traditions, saying \"Our worlds were diametrically apart. I just wanted my name to be Travis, not Sanjay.\"\n\nGrowing up, he became more confident with his identity, although he still found it challenging to openly embrace his Indian background at work. As a child, he \"felt deeply the absence of anyone who looked like him in films and television.\" To \"bring a young brown boy's story to the pop culture zeitgeist,\" Patel first pitched the short to Pixar executives during 2012. Pixar's chief creative officer, John Lasseter, was very welcoming to the idea \"about celebrating the personal side of the story.\" \n\nThe film's setting was inspired by the Lido Motel, an old Route 66 motel which his parents bought and worked at when he was a child. Patel started the film with only Vishnu, which served as a \"mirror of my father\" and would contrast one deity with three superheroes. Then the development team suggested adding more gods, with Patel choosing Durga to showcase a goddess as \"in Vedic philosophy, there's always a masculine energy and a feminine energy\", and Hanuman for a half animal deity. \n\nRavana drew inspiration from the various Rakshasas, and following Buddhist tradition, \"the demon isn't vanquished, he isn't destroyed. Once the boy destroys his idol, it makes the monster more human.\"\n\n\"Sanjay's Super Team\" was nominated for an Annie Award, and for the Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film.\n\n"}
{"id": "4337637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4337637", "title": "Shasta Abbey", "text": "Shasta Abbey\n\nShasta Abbey, located on sixteen forested acres near Mount Shasta in northern California, United States is a training monastery for Buddhist monks and a place of practice for lay Buddhists and interested visitors. It was established in 1970 by Reverend Master P.T.N.H. Jiyu-Kennett, who was Abbess and spiritual director until her death in 1996.\n\nA monastery of the Order of Buddhist Contemplatives (OBC), it was established in 1970 by Rev. Master Jiyu-Kennett, a British woman, on behalf of her teacher, Keido Chisan Koho Zenji, her Master in Japan. In November 1969, Rev. Master Jiyu-Kennett came to San Francisco on a lecture tour and stayed on in the United States to establish Shasta Abbey the following year. Rev. Master Jiyu-Kennett served twenty-six years as Abbess and spiritual director of Shasta Abbey, ordaining and teaching monks and lay people. She founded Throssel Hole Buddhist Abbey in England in 1972. She also founded the OBC to establish a framework within which the temples she founded could come together.\n\nThe second Abbot was Rev. Master Eko Little, a Dharma Heir of Rev. Master Jiyu-Kennett and her assistant for 20 years. He succeeded Rev. Master Jiyu after her death and served as Abbot until 2010. He maintained his Master’s wishes for, and legacy to, Shasta Abbey in the 14 years following her death. In his time as Abbot, he continued to unfold Rev. Master Jiyu’s teaching, strengthening the fabric of the monastery, and enhancing the spiritual life of the Sangha, both monastic and lay. There were also some serious problems that came to light towards the end of his Abbacy, and in May, 2010, he left the Abbey and returned to lay life.\n\nThe third, and current, Abbess is Rev. Master Meian Elbert, who was ordained in 1977 and received Dharma Transmission in 1979 from Rev. Master Jiyu-Kennett. She was named a Master of the Order by Rev. Master Jiyu in 1989. She was chaplain to Rev. Master Jiyu for more than 15 years and has served the community as Vice Abbess, Chief Cook, Chief Precentor, Prior and Novice Master. She also served as Executive Secretary of the Order of Buddhist Contemplatives. Rev. Master Meian was elected Abbess by the resident Shasta Abbey monastic community on June 17, 2010.\n\nBuddhist training at Shasta Abbey is based on the practice of Serene Reflection Meditation (Sōtō Zen) and the keeping of the Buddhist Precepts. The resident monastic community includes approximately 26 vegetarian, celibate male and female monks. \nThe daily schedule is a kaleidoscope of seated meditation, ceremonial and working meditation in all its various forms in order to cultivate the mind of meditation in all aspects of daily life. The schedule flows through the day from the wake-up bell to lights out, and provides opportunities “…to do what needs to be done…”. A typical day’s schedule is hard to define, but most days start with meditation and Morning Service. The day is then filled with the normal activities of daily life: Meals eaten together, individual monastic office tasks and tasks done together for the benefit of the whole community, time for individual spiritual practice and time for common ceremonial and practice, rest and renewal time including community tea and tea with the laity.\n\nLay residents staying at the Abbey for an extended period of time, and visitors participating in retreats are asked to follow a similar schedule to that of the monks. Both monks and laity observe the practice of The Middle Way as far as possible in the daily schedule.\n\nThe Abbey is a place of silence and serenity for the local congregation, lay friends and interested visitors. Practitioners strive to follow the Buddha's Teachings wholeheartedly, giving up what seems important from the point of view of the self to follow the Way of the Buddhas and Ancestors. This is reflected in their attitude of faith and practice of Dāna(mutual assistance):\n\nShasta Abbey Press publishes Buddhist books, including the writings of its founder, Rev. Master Jiyu-Kennett, and translations of many Buddhist texts. Among these are the master works of Soto Zen patriarchs Dogen Zenji (Shōbōgenzō) and Keizan Jokin Zenji (Denkoroku). Many publications can be accessed free of charge via the Shasta Abbey Website.\n\nThe translations of Buddhist texts and scriptures at Shasta Abbey are particularly useful for practitioners of Buddhism in the West, as the translations are done from the mind of meditation and by actual Buddhist monks, as opposed to the worldly, literal-minded viewpoints of many scholastic western translators of the past. The translations are less esoteric and thus easier to understand from the point of view of Buddhist practice in a western context.\n\n"}
{"id": "1056258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1056258", "title": "Teachings of Prem Rawat", "text": "Teachings of Prem Rawat\n\nThe core of Prem Rawat's teaching is that the individual’s need for fulfillment can be satisfied by turning within to contact a constant source of peace and joy. Rather than a body of dogma, he emphasizes a direct experience of transcendence, which he claims is accessible through the four techniques of meditation which he teaches. He calls these techniques \"Knowledge\" and says that Knowledge will take \"all your senses that have been going outside all your life, turn them around and put them inside to feel and to actually experience you.\"\n\nIn his public speeches he quotes from Hindu, Muslim and Christian sources, but he relies on the experience provided by the four meditation techniques for his inspiration and guidance. According to scholar and follower Ron Geaves, this lack of professed concepts allows his followers a freedom of expression which is spontaneous and personal. Rawat places no outer requirements or prohibitions on those taught the techniques, nor does he regard himself as an exemplary leader. Practitioners are asked not to reveal these techniques to anyone else, but to allow others to prepare to receive the experience for themselves. Rawat has been criticized for a lack of intellectual content in his public discourses.\n\nScholars have asserted that Prem Rawat's teachings originate in the traditions of the North Indian Sants, who dismiss all religious ritual and dogma and emphasize the possibility of a direct experience of God, who, they claim, \"dwells in the heart\". Theologically, their teachings are distinguished by an inward, loving devotion to a divine principle, and socially by an egalitarianism that is opposed to the qualitative distinctions of the Hindu caste system. Sants believe that the Guru or Perfect Master is an embodiment of God and a fitting object of worship. Some of the more notable Sant gurus include Namdev (d.1350), Kabir (d.1518), Nanak (d.1539), Mirabai (d.1545), Surdas (d.1573), Tulsidas (d.1623), and Tukaram (d. 1650). Other scholars refer to affinities with medieval traditions of Nirguna Bhakti (Sanskrit = \"formless devotion\"), with a similar emphasis on universalism, equality and direct experience, and criticism of blind allegiance to religious ritual and dogma.\nHans Ji Maharaj, Rawat's father and guru, was a devotee of Swarupanand, and became a guru in 1936 on Swarupanand's death. He began presenting his message and teaching the techniques of Knowledge in the small town of Najibabad, near Haridwar. His talks were strongly influenced by the reformist philosophy of the Arya Samaj, and he viewed himself primarily as the \"Guru of the Poor\". His teachings were rich in metaphor and more concerned with practical applications than theory. Unusually for an Indian teacher, he accepted students irrespective of caste, religion or status, and drew his share of criticism from traditional Hindus. In 1936 he published a book \"Hans Yog Prakash\" as a first step to broadening the dissemination of his message.\n\nPrem Rawat did not inherit a formal set of teachings nor did he develop one, as he sees conceptual thinking as the main enemy of the direct religious experience which he claims can be obtained through the techniques of Knowledge. His central claim is that God resides in every human being and the human quest for fulfillment can be resolved by turning inward to discover a constant source of contentment and joy. He gives equal billing to all religions, quoting from Hindu, Muslim and Christian sources, but rather than rely on scriptures for inspiration and guidance, Rawat relies on the experience provided by the four techniques of Knowledge. This lack of professed concepts allow his followers a freedom of expression which is spontaneous and personal.Neither in the time of the father, Shri Hans, nor in that of the son, did the Divine Light Mission possess a systematically developed set of teachings. Both saw [doctrines] as presenting more problems than advantages ... The young Guru explains that conceptual thinking, translated with the English word “mind” in German translations also, is the main enemy of direct religious experience. It is therefore hardly surprising that little firm information about DLM teachings can be obtained from his followers. On the other hand, the lack of professed concepts allows them a freedom of expression which is spontaneous and personal, and which makes an agreeable contrast with the unexamined reproduction of received teachings [such as are found in other Indian-inspired groups.]</ref>\n\nIn 1972 Rawat relocated to the U.S. and while his teachings remained essentially Hindu in origin and he continued with many Indian traditions, he managed with the minimum of Hindu terms and concepts, keeping his main emphasis on an individual, subjective experience. His first western discourses were criticized by some religious scholars as evangelical and lacking in substance and for stressing direct experience over intellect or religious conceptual thinking.\n\nA reporter at an appearance in Boston described Rawat as \"...a real human being. He spoke humbly, conversationally, and without any apparent notion that he was God. In fact he seemed to consciously undercut the divine stage show and the passionate words said in his honor. Devotees and mahatmas speak of him as the guy who will out-Christ Christ, yet the guru himself claims, not that he is divine, but that his Knowledge is\". Sociologist James Downton observed that from his early beginnings Rawat appealed to his followers to give up the concepts and beliefs that might impede them from fully experiencing the \"Knowledge\" or life force, but this did not prevent them from adopting a fairly rigid set of ideas about his divinity, and to project millennial preconceptions onto him and the movement. Stephen A. Kent, in the preface of his book \"From Slogans to Mantras\", described his disappointment at hearing what he considered to be a poorly delivered and banal message by Rawat in 1974, and was surprised that his companions spoke glowingly about the same message.\n\nPrem Rawat has never asked for payment for teaching Knowledge but it was reported that in the 1970s, some Indian mahatmas asked would-be initiates to empty their pockets and give what they had prior to receiving Knowledge. In 1974, Rawat began using Western initiators to teach the techniques of Knowledge and continued to transform his teachings in order to appeal to a Western context.\n\nBy the early 1980s Prem Rawat had dropped the title \"Guru\" and eliminated the last of the Indian aspects. Rawat does not see himself as bound by conventional beliefs or practices of any institutionalized religion or tradition-honored world view. He is essentially an iconoclast who plots his route by pragmatic decisions to meet the demands and challenges that occur in his public career as a teacher striving to convince people of the value of self-knowledge. Rawat claims that practicing Knowledge will allow the practitioner to experience joy, self-understanding, calmness, peace and contentment. Practitioners describe Knowledge as internal and highly individual, with no associated social structure, liturgy, ethical practices or articles of faith. According to Ron Geaves, Rawat speaks spontaneously, with an emphasis on an individual's subjective experience rather than on a body of theoretical knowledge, and he draws upon real life experiences, including his own, rather than on interpretations of the scriptures. He is uncluttered by tradition in the manner of a contemporary Kabir or Nanak. Rawat advises students that for maximum benefit the techniques should be practised daily for at least one hour. He does not demand obedience, in that no outer requirements or prohibitions are placed on those taught the techniques. The axiom, 'If you like it, practice it; if you don’t, try something else,' is frequently given in his public discourses. Neither does Prem Rawat regard himself as an exemplary leader, a role often ascribed to religious founders.\n\nThe experience of Knowledge is described by practitioners as internal and highly individual. The techniques are to be practised privately, and have no related social structure or hierarchy. According to students, there is no liturgy or social obligation involved. They also say that the techniques are universally applicable and their practice has no impact on, or relationship to, a student's gender, race, sexual orientation, economic status, religion,\nor national origin.\n\nAccording to the Dutch religious scholar and Christian minister Reender Kranenborg and the American religious scholar J. Gordon Melton, the techniques of Knowledge are secret and were originally called \"Light\", \"Sound\", \"Name\" (or \"Word\") and \"Nectar\", but Maharaji now refers to them as the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th techniques. Rawat asks practitioners to promise \"not to reveal these techniques to anyone\", but says to \"let other people go through their own journey ... [so] they, too, can have the techniques when they are ready.\"\n\nKranenborg and Melton provide differing details of them in their writings but agree on a general description of the practices. \"Light\" involves careful pressure on the eyes, seeking to open the \"third eye\" after a long period of training and practice. This is comparable to similar Tantric practices. \"Sound\" involves positioning the hands over the ears and temples, with the goal of hearing the \"heavenly music\". This is reported to be related to sabda-brahman meditation. \"Name\" or \"Word\" is a meditation concentrating on breath. \"Nectar\" involves tongue positioning, eventually leading the student to taste the \"nectar of life\". Michael Drury describes these techniques as helping the practitioner to develop \"a deep and spiritual self-knowledge.\"\n\nIn his early days in the West, Prem Rawat or his Mahatmas (renamed to \"Initiators\" in 1974) conducted \"Knowledge Sessions\" face-to-face in small groups. From 2001 the techniques were taught via a multimedia presentation made by Rawat. In 2005, Prem Rawat introduced \"The Keys\", a program of five DVD's which prepare the student for receiving Knowledge. The techniques are taught in Key Six. A request from a practitioner who feels they are ready to view Key Six will result in an invitation to a Knowledge Session. It is available in more than 50 languages (of which he speaks five himself: English, Hindi, Nepali, Spanish and Italian; the other languages are dubbed). In this presentation, Maharaji explains the techniques step-by-step, to ensure that they are understood and practiced correctly. This process takes 2½ hours, of which one hour is dedicated to practicing the techniques, 15 minutes each. Before the presentation starts, people are asked to keep three promises: a) to keep in touch, b) to give Knowledge a fair chance, and c) to not share these techniques with anyone. If attendees agree with these three promises they are invited to stay and receive \"the gift of Knowledge.\"\n\nThe Knowledge Sessions are facilitated by volunteers who operate the video equipment and ensure the comfort of the attendees. Knowledge Sessions are available throughout the year in most Western countries. In special cases, such as people who are in hospitals etc., or are otherwise bed-ridden, the volunteers go to them to conduct the Session.\n\nGeorge D. Chryssides writes that the Knowledge according to Prem Rawat was based on self-understanding, providing the practitioner with calmness, peace, and contentment, as the inner-self is identical with the divine. Rawat emphasizes that this Knowledge is universal, not Indian, in nature.\n\nRon Geaves, who specializes in studies in comparative religion at Liverpool Hope University in England and who is one of the Western students of Prem Rawat,<ref name=\"PIP/Cagan\"></ref> writes that Prem Rawat himself has stated that he does not consider himself to be a charismatic figure, preferring to refer to his teachings and the efficacy of the practice of the four techniques on the individual as the basis of his authority. The showing of the four techniques replaces the traditional diksha, and although it marks the sealing of master/disciple relationship, that is not emphasized in the session itself. Rather, the focus is on correct practice and staying in touch through participation or listening. Prem Rawat’s teachings make no reference to any traditional authority, neither person nor text.\n\nStephen J. Hunt describes Rawat's major focus as being on stillness, peace and contentment within the individual, and his 'Knowledge' consists of the techniques to obtain them. Knowledge, roughly translated, means the happiness of the true self-understanding. Each individual should seek to comprehend his or her true self. In turn, this brings a sense of well-being, joy, and harmony as one comes in contact with one's \"own nature.\" The Knowledge includes four secret meditation procedures and the process of reaching the true self within can only be achieved by the individual, but with the guidance and help of a teacher. Hence, the movement seems to embrace aspects of world-rejection and world-affirmation. The tens of thousands of followers in the West do not see themselves as members of a religion, but the adherents of a system of teachings that extol the goal of enjoying life to the full. They claim that Rawat's authority comes from the nature of his teachings and their benefit to the individual.\nIn Sacred Journeys sociologist James V. Downton writes\nAside from all the psychological and social explanations one could offer to explain their conversions, the fact is that, during the Knowledge session or afterward in meditation, these young people had a spiritual experience which deeply affected them and changed the course of their lives. It was an experience which moved many to tears and joy, for they had found the answer they had been seeking. It was an experience which gave their lives more positive direction, meaning, and purpose. It was an experience which brought them into a new relationship to life and removed many blocks to growth. It was an experience-which sages have spoken about throughout history-of the oneness of life.\n\nMarc Galanter (MD), professor of Psychiatry and Director of the Division of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse at the New York University Medical Center, writes that \"over the long term of membership, meditation also played an important role in supporting a convert's continuing involvement. An analysis of the relationship between the time members spent in meditation and the decline in their level of neurotic distress revealed that greater meditation time was associated with diminished neurotic distress. This association suggests that the emotional response to meditation acts as a reinforcement for its continued practice.\" That is, the more a member meditated, in general, the better the person was likely to feel. Members apparently used meditation to relieve distress, both at scheduled times and on an ad hoc basis.\n\nPaul Schnabel a sociologist, references Van der Lans, a religious psychologist employed at the Catholic University of Nijmegen. Van der Lans says that among his Western students, Rawat appeared to stimulate an uncritical attitude, giving them an opportunity to project their fantasies of divinity onto his person. According to these authors, the divine nature of the guru is a standard element of Eastern religion, but removed from its cultural context, and confounded with the Western understanding of God as a father, what is lost is the difference between the guru's person and that which the guru symbolizes—resulting in what they refer to as limitless personality worship. Schnabel writes that this kind of understanding of the master-disciple relationship, alien to the original Eastern guru-disciple context, often ends in disillusionment for the disciple, who finds that the teacher in the end fails to live up to his or her expectations.\n\nReports obtained by Ted Patrick and several scholars after deprogramming of several of Rawat's former worshippers refer to the experience of Rawat's \"meditation\" techniques as self-hypnosis, and as diminishing the ability to think both during the practice and for an extended period of time after cessation.\n\nRawat has been criticized for a lack of intellectual content in his public discourses According to David V. Barrett, at the heart of Prem Rawat's teaching is the Knowledge, and the experience is an individual, subjective experience rather than a body of dogma. In its Divine Light days the movement was sometimes criticized for this stressing of emotional experience over intellect. The teaching could perhaps best be described as practical mysticism.\n\n\n▪Raj Vidya Kender - Nonprofit public charitable trust, carries out various projects for the benefit of the poor and needy in India.\n"}
{"id": "2081593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081593", "title": "The Citadel (novel)", "text": "The Citadel (novel)\n\nThe Citadel is a novel by A. J. Cronin, first published in 1937, which was groundbreaking in its treatment of the contentious theme of medical ethics. It has been credited with laying the foundation in Great Britain for the introduction of the NHS a decade later. In the United States, it won the National Book Award for 1937 novels, voted by members of the American Booksellers Association.\n\nFor his fifth book, Dr. Cronin drew on his experiences practising medicine in the coal mining communities of the South Wales Valleys, as he had for \"The Stars Look Down\" two years earlier. Specifically, he had researched and reported on the correlation between coal dust inhalation and lung disease in the town of Tredegar. He had also worked as a doctor for the Tredegar Medical Aid Society at the Cottage Hospital, which served as the model for the National Health Service.\n\nCronin once stated in an interview, \"I have written in \"The Citadel\" all I feel about the medical profession, its injustices, its hide-bound unscientific stubbornness, its humbug ... The horrors and inequities detailed in the story I have personally witnessed. This is not an attack against individuals, but against a system.\"\n\nIn October 1924, Andrew Manson, an idealistic, newly qualified doctor, arrives from Scotland to work as assistant to Doctor Page in the small (fictitious) Welsh mining town of Drineffy (Blaenelly is the name given in some adaptations). He quickly realises that Page is unwell and disabled and that he has to do all the work for a meagre wage. Shocked by the unsanitary conditions he discovers, Manson works to improve matters and receives the support of Dr Philip Denny, a cynical semi-alcoholic who, Manson finds out in due course, took a post as an assistant doctor after having fallen from grace as a surgeon. Resigning, he obtains a post as assistant in a miners' medical aid scheme in 'Aberalaw', a neighbouring coal mining town in the South Wales coalfield. On the strength of this job, Manson marries Christine Barlow, a junior school teacher.\n\nChristine helps her husband with his silicosis research. Eager to improve the lives of his patients, mainly coal miners, Manson dedicates many hours to research in his chosen field of lung disease. He studies for, and is granted, the MRCP, and when his research is published, an MD. The research gains him a post with the 'Mines Fatigue Board' in London, but he resigns after six months to set up a private practice.\n\nSeduced by the thought of easy money from wealthy clients rather than the principles he started out with, Manson becomes involved with pampered private patients and fashionable surgeons and drifts away from his wife. A patient dies because of a surgeon's ineptitude, and the incident causes Manson to abandon his practice and return to his principles. He and his wife repair their damaged relationship, but then she is run over by a bus and killed.\n\nSince Manson has accused the incompetent surgeon of murder, he is vindictively reported to the General Medical Council for having worked with an American tuberculosis specialist, Richard Stillman, who does not have a medical degree, even though the patient had been successfully treated at his clinic. Stillman's treatment, that of pneumothorax involved collapsing an affected lung with nitrogen, and was not universally accepted at the time.\n\nDespite his lawyer's gloomy prognosis, Manson forcefully justifies his actions during the hearing and is not struck off the medical register.\n\nThe novel is of interest because of its portrayal of a voluntary contribution medical association which is based (not entirely uncritically) on the Tredegar Medical Aid Society for which Cronin worked for a time in the 1920s, and which in due course became the inspiration for the National Health Service as established under Aneurin Bevan.\n\nThe novel was made into a 1938 film with Robert Donat, Rosalind Russell, Ralph Richardson and Rex Harrison, and television versions include one American (1960), two British (1960 & 1983), and two Italian (1964 & 2003) adaptations of the novel. There are also three film adaptations of the novel in Indian languages: \"Tere Mere Sapne\" (1971) in Hindi, \"Jiban Saikate\" (1972) in Bengali and \"Madhura Swapnam\" (1982) in Telugu. In 2017 an adaptation for radio by Christopher Reason was featured as the BBC Radio 4 15 minute drama. \n\n"}
{"id": "1086815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1086815", "title": "Tom Regan", "text": "Tom Regan\n\nTom Regan (; November 28, 1938 – February 17, 2017) was an American philosopher who specialized in animal rights theory. He was professor emeritus of philosophy at North Carolina State University, where he had taught from 1967 until his retirement in 2001.\n\nRegan was the author of numerous books on the philosophy of animal rights, including \"The Case for Animal Rights\" (1983), one of a handful of studies that have significantly influenced the modern animal rights movement. In these, he argued that non-human animals are what he called the \"subjects-of-a-life\", just as humans are, and that, if we want to ascribe value to all human beings regardless of their ability to be rational agents, then to be consistent, we must similarly ascribe it to non-humans.\n\nFrom 1985, he served with his wife Nancy as co-founder and co-president of the Culture and Animals Foundation, a nonprofit organization \"committed to fostering the growth of intellectual and artistic endeavors united by a positive concern for animals.\"\n\nThe Vegan Society remembers him as \"a stalwart vegan and activist.\"\n\nRegan graduated from Thiel College in 1960, receiving his M.A. in 1962 and his PhD in 1966 from the University of Virginia. He taught philosophy at North Carolina State University from 1967 until 2001. Regan directed the 1986 film \"We Are All Noah\" which is available on VHS videotape.\n\nIn \"The Case for Animal Rights\", Regan argued that non-human animals bear moral rights. His philosophy aligns broadly within the tradition of Immanuel Kant, though he rejects Kant's idea that respect is due only to rational beings. Regan points out that we routinely ascribe inherent value, and thus the right to be treated with respect, to humans who are not rational, including infants and the severely mentally impaired.\n\nThe crucial attribute that all humans have in common, he argues, is not rationality, but the fact that each of us has a life that matters to us; in other words, what happens to us matters to us, regardless of whether it matters to anyone else. In Regan's terminology, we each experience being the \"subject-of-a-life.\" If this is the true basis for ascribing inherent value to individuals, to be consistent we must ascribe inherent value, and hence moral rights, to all subjects-of-a-life, whether human or non-human. The basic right that all who possess inherent value have, he argues, is the right never to be treated merely as a means to the ends of others.\n\nIn Regan's view, not to be used as a means entails the right to be treated with respect, which includes the right not to be harmed. This right, however, is not absolute, as, there are times when to respect someone’s right not to be harmed, another’s right not to be harmed must be overridden. His philosophy employs principles such as the miniride principle (a.k.a. minimize overriding) and the worse-off principle to deal with these situations. The miniride principle is that when faced with overriding the rights of many innocent beings versus the rights of few innocent beings—when each individual involved would be equally harmed—we should override the rights of the few. The worse-off principle states that, when individuals involved are not harmed in a comparable way given a certain course of action, we should mitigate the situation of those who would be worse-off. Thus, if the harm of a few innocent beings is greater than the harm to many innocent beings, the right action is to override the rights of the many. As this relates to animal rights, Regan asserts the harm in the death of an animal is not tantamount to the harm in the death of a normal, healthy human. This is supposedly because the ending of an animal life entails the loss of fewer opportunities when compared to the loss of a normal, healthy human. According to Regan, there would be more harm in the death of a normal, healthy dog than there would be in the death of a person who was irreversibly comatose, as the dog would have more opportunities for satisfaction than the irreversibly comatose human.\n\nSupporters argue that Regan's argument for animal rights does not rely on a radical new theory of ethics, but that it follows from a consistent application of moral principles and insights that many of us already hold with respect to the ethical treatment of human beings. However, others criticize the lack of certainty with which Regan's \"inherent value\" or \"subject-of-a-life\" status can be determined, and note that the sufficient conditions he lists—for example, having sense-perceptions, beliefs, desires, motives, and memory—in effect reduce to \"similarity to humans\".\n\nAccording to Regan, it follows from the ascription to animals of the basic right to be treated with respect that we should abolish the breeding of animals for food, animal experimentation, and commercial hunting. Starting as a leather-wearing, circus-visiting meat eater, a series of musings, experiences, and insights led him to conclude he was morally unable to use animals for meat, clothing, or any other purpose that does not respect their rights.\n\nIn the 1980s, Regan published three books on G. E. Moore's philosophy. The first book, \"G. E. Moore: The Early Essays\", is a collection of essays that were originally published between 1897 and 1903, none of which Moore himself anthologized. Regan argues that these papers reveal Moore’s early taste for speculative metaphysics; in \"The Nature of Judgment\", for example, Moore maintains that \"the world consists of concepts\", including existence, \"which is itself a concept . . . Thus, all that exists . . . is composed of concepts necessarily related to one another in specific manners, and likewise to the concept of existence.\" In another paper, \"Freedom\", Moore enthusiastically affirms his agreement with F. H. Bradley, writing: \"I can only say that the arguments by which Mr. Bradley has endeavoured to prove the unreality of Time appear to me perfectly conclusive.\"\n\nRegan’s second book, \"The Elements of Ethics\", is a series of ten lectures Moore delivered in 1898. Large parts of these lectures were carried over by Moore into \"Principia Ethica\" and, Regan maintains, these lectures cast important light on \"Principia’s\" pages.\n\nRegan’s third book, \"Bloomsbury’s Prophet: G. E. Moore and the Development of His Moral Philosophy\", represents Regan’s major contribution to Moorean scholarship. Representative reviews include E. D. Klemke writing that \"Bloomsbury’s Prophet\" is \"a marvelous book\", while Aurum Stroll writes \"[t]he portrait of the man Moore that Regan gives us is not only unique . . . but it is well done, indeed.\"\n\nIn this book, Regan relies on a trove of unpublished material, housed in the Moore Archive at the University of Cambridge, including Moore’s two dissertations, on Kant’s moral philosophy; correspondence, consisting of letters that Moore wrote as well those he received; scores of papers he read at meetings of the Cambridge Conversazione Society, also known as the Apostles, and at the Sunday Essay Society; and a diary Moore kept throughout his formative years, breaking off on April 19, 1916.\n\nUsing these materials, Regan argues that \"Principia\"s primary purpose was (as Moore wrote) to \"humble the Science of Ethics\" by exposing the \"lies\" told by \"would-be scientific ethicists\" (\"Art, Morals, and Religion\": May 5, 1901). In Moore’s view, a truly scientific ethic is able to prove very little concerning values, rules, duty, and virtues.\n\nRegarding values: such an ethic cannot establish anything concerning what has intrinsic value—what is good in itself. That must be left to the judgment of individuals who, taking due precautions, ask themselves what things would be good if they were the only things to exist in the world.\n\nRegarding rules of conduct: a truly scientific ethic can at most establish that “a very few rules” (\"Principia\", xxii, italics in the original) ought always to be followed. Not even all the rules commended by Common Sense qualify: only “most of those most universally recognized by Common Sense” are possible candidates, and even in their case Moore maintains only that the requisite type of justification “may be possible” (p. xxii, italics in the original).\n\nThat being so, almost all our decisions will need to be made without relying on any rule: in almost all cases, Moore writes, “rules of action should not be followed at all” (\"Ibid\"., p. xiii). In all cases of this sort, individuals should guide their choice “by a direct consideration of the effects which the action may produce” (p. XX), doing what one thinks will promote one’s own interests, as these are enlarged by the lives of others in whom one has “a strong personal interest” (\"Ibid\"., XX) instead of attempting to satisfy the demands of “a more extended beneficence,” as in “the greatest good for the greatest number.” And of the goods to be aimed at, the more immediate are generally to be preferred to the more distant. In short, in virtually all our activities in our day-to-day life we are at liberty to live and choose without troubling ourselves about whether we are doing what duty, in the form of the rules of morality, requires.\n\nRegarding virtues: a truly scientific ethic should promote the private virtues of prudence, temperance, and industry (the only virtues Moore discusses in \"Principia\"), not the (so-called) virtues of beneficence, charity, civic-mindedness, social justice, patriotism, piety, reverence, or altruism. Such an ethic should promote the virtues of the creative self, not the virtues of the conscientious citizen.\n\nOn this basis Regan argues that Moore genuinely is “Bloomsbury’s prophet,” advocating, as he does, the values, the rules of conduct, and the virtues that are synonymous with the name, “Bloomsbury.” As Regan notes, “theirs was an anarchy of the bedroom, not the streets.”\n\nWriting in the Library Journal, Leon H. Brody assessed the work as follows.\n\n\"Regan's thesis is that an adequate understanding of Moore's ethical philosophy can be achieved only when seen against the backdrop of Bloomsbury--the avant-garde group of free spirits (among whom were Lytton Strachey, Virginia Woolf, and John Maynard Keynes) who met weekly in London between 1905 and 1920. When seen in that light, Regan argues, Moore's thought as expressed in Principia Ethica is a \"radical defense of the freedom of the individual to choose,\" rather than a defense of conformity to the status quo, as is usually assumed. Written with the verve appropriate to its subject, and yet philosophically scrupulous, this book deserves a place in philosophy and cultural history collections in both public and academic libraries.\"\n\nRegan and his wife Nancy had two children, Bryan and Karen.\n\nRegan died of pneumonia at his home in North Carolina on February 17, 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45064334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45064334", "title": "Warnock's dilemma", "text": "Warnock's dilemma\n\nWarnock's dilemma, named for its originator Bryan Warnock, is the problem of interpreting a lack of response to a posting in a virtual community. The term originally referred to mailing list discussions, but has been applied to Usenet posts, blogs, Web forums, and online content in general. The dilemma arises because a lack of response does not necessarily imply that no one is interested in the topic, but could also mean for example that readers find the content to be exceptionally good (leaving nothing for commenters to add).\n\nOn many internet forums, only around 1 percent of users create new posts, while 9 percent reply and 90 percent are lurkers that don't contribute to the discussion. When no users reply, the original poster has no way of knowing what lurkers think of their contribution.\n\nWarnock's dilemma leads to online writers and publishers adopting more confrontational writing strategies in order to ensure that they will get a response. However, this can also lead publishers to avoid producing the kind of content that might fail to generate comments due to its high quality. This problem arises particularly with sites that focus on viral content, such as \"Buzzfeed\" and \"Huffington Post\".\n\nSince Warnock's original description of the dilemma in August 2000, the expression has become used in the Perl world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41969028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41969028", "title": "Why I Am an Atheist", "text": "Why I Am an Atheist\n\nWhy I am an Atheist is an essay written by Indian revolutionary Bhagat Singh in 1930 in Lahore Central Jail. The essay was a reply to his religious friends who thought Bhagat Singh became an atheist because of his vanity.\n\nBhagat Singh was a member of Hindustan Socialist Republican Association, a revolutionary party in the Indian freedom struggle. He was an atheist who believed in communism, and he wrote several articles on anarchism and communism for \"Kirti\". He was arrested on 8 April 1929 in connection with the Central Legislative Assembly bombing case and was sentenced to 14 years life imprisonment. He was re-arrested in connection with the murder of one Saunders, a deputy superintendent of police who was killed by Sukhdev, Rajguru, and Bhagat Singh in 1928 in retaliation for the death of Lala Lajpat Rai. In that case, the trial began and he was transferred to Lahore jail. In the jail, on 4 October 1930, Baba Randhir Singh, a religious man and member of Ghadar Party who was convicted in the first Lahore conspiracy case, met Bhagat Singh and tried to incite his belief in God; however, Bhagat Singh did not change his stand. Thereafter, Randhir Singh said \"You are giddy with fame and have developed an ego which is standing like a black curtain between you and the God\". As a reply to Randhir Singh, he wrote this essay on 5 and 6 October 1930. On 7 October 1930, all three of the defendants were convicted in the murder of Saunders and sentenced to death. On 23 March 1931, they were executed by hanging in the Lahore jail (present-day Shadman Chowk or Bhagat Singh Chowk).\n\nAfter the death of Singh, the essay was published on 27 September 1931 in Lala Lajpat Rai's English weekly \"The People\".\n\nOn the request of Periyar E. V. Ramasamy, P. Jeevanandham translated the essay to the Tamil language. The Tamil version of the essay was published in \"Kudi Arasu\" in 1935. According to Chaman Lal, \"at one time after Partition, the English copy of this essay was not found anywhere. It was then re-translated from Tamil to English, and some websites still carry the re-translated English version of this essay\".\n\nIn the essay, Bhagat Singh discussed his atheism, which did not come because of his vanity. He explained how a religious boy who chanted prayers for hours, became an atheist. He also questioned theists about the existence of God.\n"}
{"id": "22089347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22089347", "title": "World Conference on Human Rights", "text": "World Conference on Human Rights\n\nThe World Conference on Human Rights was held by the United Nations in Vienna, Austria, on 14 to 25 June 1993. It was the first human rights conference held since the end of the Cold War. The main result of the conference was the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action.\n\nAlthough the United Nations had long been active in the field of human rights, the Vienna conference was only the second global conference to focus exclusively on human rights, with the first having been the International Conference on Human Rights held in Teheran, Iran, during April–May 1968 to mark the twentieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nThe Vienna conference came at a time when world conferences were popular, with the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development having been held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June 1992, and the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, Egypt, soon following in September 1994. More conferences would follow after that, including the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen, Denmark, in March 1995 and the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, China, in September 1995. Such conferences were seen as a way to promote global participation, consultation, and policy formation, and were seen as a likely significant new way to influence the direction of international society.\n\nThe notion of having a world conference on human rights was first proposed in 1989. The end of the Cold War brought about the hope that the long stalemate and distortion of United Nations behaviors due to the bipolar superpower confrontation would cease. \n\nIn the run-up to the 1993 conference, much of the optimism of the 1989 era was lost. Preparatory conferences were held in Geneva, Switzerland, beginning in 1991, as were a number of regional and satellite meetings. These struggled to produce new ideas that countries could agree upon, and highlighted differences surrounding the role of state sovereignty, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and whether new or strengthened human rights instruments for the UN were feasible and impartial. The United Nations General Assembly was eventually forced to decide upon the conference's agenda in 1992. Pierre Sané, the Secretary General of Amnesty International, was concerned that conference might represent a backwards step for human rights. He added, \"It's not surprising that governments are not overenthusiastic. After all, they are the ones violating human rights.\"\n\nThe World Conference on Human Rights was attended by representatives of 171 nations and 800 NGOs, with some 7,000 participants overall. This made it the largest gathering ever on human rights. It was organised by Human Rights expert John Pace.\n\nThere was much discussion ahead of the conference on what could and could not be said during it. The rules adopted stated that no specific countries or places could be mentioned where human rights abuses were taking place, including those involved in current conflicts such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Angola, and Liberia, and those subject to ongoing human rights criticism, such as China and Cuba. Instead, human rights abuses were to be discussed in the abstract only; this led \"The New York Times\" to state that the conference was taking place \"In an atmosphere strangely removed from reality.\" In particular, that the ongoing Bosnian War was taking place only an hour's flight from Vienna testified dramatically that no new era of international cooperation had come into place.\n\nDespite the rules, organizations and demonstrators at the conference's physical site were happy to mention specific ongoing abuses all around the world, with many displaying atrocity photographs in an attempt to out-do each other. One person concerned about the Polisario Front and Western Sahara situation said, \"It's hard to be noticed.\"\n\nThe conference did have an expansive view of human rights, with efforts made to highlight women's rights, indigenous peoples' rights, minority rights, and more in the context of universal political and economic rights. Women's rights in particular gained a strong and effective presence at the conference.\n\nOne fault line at the conference was Western nations who proclaimed a universal meaning to human rights versus nations who said that human rights needed to be interpreted differently in non-Western cultures and that attempts to impose a universal definition amounted to interference in their internal affairs. The latter group was led by China, Syria and Iran, and also included a number of Asian nations such as Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Vietnam. On the opening day of the conference, U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher spoke out strongly against this notion, saying \"We cannot let cultural relativism become the last refuge of repression.\"\n\nFormer U.S. House of Representatives member and vice presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro attended the conference as the alternate U.S. delegate, and was one of the attendees heavily interested in women's rights aspects.\n\nIn spite of pressures from the People's Republic of China, the 14th Dalai Lama was able to give a talk at the conference on human responsibilities.\n\nThe key result of the World Conference on Human Rights was the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, which was formulated late in the meeting and was adopted by consensus of 171 states on 25 June 1993. While one possible interpretation sees this document as a \"well crafted but empty exhortation\", it did come to represent as much of a consensus as could be found on human rights in the early 1990s. And it did in fact set new marks in human rights work in several areas. It established the interdependence of democracy, economic development, and human rights. Specifically, it replaced the Cold War division of Civil and Political Rights (CPR) apart from Economic Social and Cultural rights (ESCR) with the concept of rights being indivisible (you cannot take one type of rights without the other), interdependent (one set of rights needs the other to be realised), and inter-related (that all human rights relate to each other). It called for the creation of instruments to publicize and protect the rights of women, children, and indigenous peoples. It requested more funding for the United Nations Center for Human Rights. Most significantly, it called for a new office, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly subsequently endorsed the declaration as part of Resolution 48/121. It also created the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on 20 December 1993.\n\nBy the early 2000s, all of the explicit establishments recommended by the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action had been met in full or in part. The conference also highlighted the importance that NGOs would continue to play in the human rights infrastructure.\n\n"}
{"id": "35501694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35501694", "title": "Would It Kill You to Stop Doing That?", "text": "Would It Kill You to Stop Doing That?\n\nWould It Kill You To Stop Doing That? is a 2012 non-fiction book by the American humorist Henry Alford that details manners from around the world.\n\nAfter being interested in a quote by Edmund Burke about how important manners are, Alford traveled around the world researching manners. He also interviews people such as etiquette authority Judith Martin.\n\nJincy Willet of \"The New York Times\" said that the book \"amuses as much as it informs\". Sarah Halzack of \"The Washington Post\" called the book \"a bit haphazard\" although \"his self-effacing tone and dry sense of humor help to unify the pieces\". Philip Marchand of \"National Post\" said that \"sometimes his humour is a bit strained\" although his advice can be \"very practical\".\n"}
