{"id": "1582015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1582015", "title": "'Abd Allah II ibn 'Ali 'Abd ash-Shakur", "text": "'Abd Allah II ibn 'Ali 'Abd ash-Shakur\n\nAbd Allah II ibn 'Ali 'Abd ash-Shakur, also known as Amir Hajji 'Abdu'llahi II ibn 'Ali 'Abdu's Shakur, (18??-1930) was the last Emir of Harar from 1884 (or 1885, various sources carry various dates) to January 26, 1887, when the state was terminated, following the defeat of the Harari troops at the Battle of Chelenqo (January 6). \n\nAccording to R.A. Caulk, Emir 'Abd Allah was the son of Muhammad ibn `Ali `Abd ash-Shakur by Kadija, the daughter of Emir `Abd al-Karim ibn Muhammad. To secure his hold on the emirate of Harar, his father had married 'Abd Allah to the daughter of Ahmad III ibn Abu Bakr, his predecessor. When the Egyptians evacuated Harar, 'Abd Allah became the logical choice to rule Harar. He was given \"a few hundred soldiers trained by one of the British officers, 300 to 400 rifles, some cannon, and munitions, a force hardly sufficient to garrison Harar and Jaldessa, let alone police the traderoutes and ensure the security of the state.\" \n\nEmir 'Abd Allah grew anxious about the growing Ethiopian threat to his domain, and accused the resident Europeans of co-operating with Negus Menelik II. His situation deteriorated by July 1885, according to historian Harold Marcus: \"the population grew uncontrollable, European traders became virtual prisoners in their homes and shops, and the adjacent Galla raided the town.\" In response, the Emir introduced a new currency which impoverished the local population. The neighboring Oromo and Somali deserted Harar's markets and the town's economy collapsed.\n\nThe Ughaz or Sultan of the Gadabuursi, Ughaz Nur II, had established strong relations with the Emir of Harar, Abdallah II ibn Ali. In 1887, when Harar was occupied by Menelik II of Ethiopia, Ughaz Nur sent Gadabursi askaris to support Abdallah II ibn Ali. \n\nEmir 'Abd Allah responded to the first Ethiopian military probe with a night attack on their camp at Hirna that included fireworks; the Ethiopians panicked at the pyrotechnics and fled toward the Asabot and Awash Rivers. When the Negus Menelik personally led a second attack a few months later, the Emir misjudged the quality of these troops and attempted to repeat his earlier success of a second night attack. \"Had he allowed the enemy to attack the walled city, where his few Krupp cannon might have been effective, the Shoans might have suffered a defeat with serious political consequences,\" Marcus notes. However, the battle at Chelenqo destroyed the Emir's army in fifteen minutes and, with his wives and children, the Emir fled into the empty country east of Harar. He left his uncle Ali Abu Barka to submit to Menelik and ask clemency for Harar.\n\nThe former Emir 'Abd Allah later returned to the town to live as a Sufi or religious scholar. He died there in 1930.\n\n"}
{"id": "9911144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9911144", "title": "(−2,3,7) pretzel knot", "text": "(−2,3,7) pretzel knot\n\nIn geometric topology, a branch of mathematics, the (−2, 3, 7) pretzel knot, sometimes called the Fintushel–Stern knot (after Ron Fintushel and Ronald J. Stern), is an important example of a pretzel knot which exhibits various interesting phenomena under three-dimensional and four-dimensional surgery constructions.\n\nThe (−2, 3, 7) pretzel knot has 7 \"exceptional\" slopes, Dehn surgery slopes which give non-hyperbolic 3-manifolds. Among the enumerated knots, the only other hyperbolic knot with 7 or more is the figure-eight knot, which has 10. All other hyperbolic knots are conjectured to have at most 6 exceptional slopes.\n"}
{"id": "684040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=684040", "title": "ALZA", "text": "ALZA\n\nALZA Corporation was a pharmaceutical and medical systems company.\n\nFounded in 1968 by Dr Alejandro Zaffaroni; the company's name is a portmanteau of his name. ALZA was a major pioneer in the field of drug delivery systems, bringing over 20 prescription pharmaceutical products to market, and employing about 10,000 people during 20 years. In 2001, ALZA was acquired by Johnson & Johnson via a stock-for-stock transaction worth US$10.5 billion.\n\nThe company owns the patents on the following delivery platforms:\n\nALZA built its first corporate headquarters in 1971, at 950 Page Mill Road in Palo Alto, California, now occupied by law firm Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati. In 1999, ALZA moved its headquarters to Shoreline Business Park, where it remained until July 2007 when ALZA was acquired by Johnson & Johnson and the space was vacated. The remaining employees were relocated to two buildings elsewhere in the Shoreline Business Park. ALZA is now in operation in Vacaville, California.\n\nGoogle's Googleplex is located just east of ALZA Plaza.\nIn August–September 2008, Google moved into the ALZA plaza buildings.\n\nALZA operated a large-scale manufacturing facility in Vacaville, California and previously operated a large-scale facility in Cashel, Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "14687896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14687896", "title": "Adelperga", "text": "Adelperga\n\nAdelperga (born c. 740 – died after 787) was a Lombard noblewoman, daughter of Desiderius, King of the Lombards, and his wife Ansa.\nShe was the third of four daughters of King Desiderius. Her elder sister Desiderata was a wife of Charlemagne.\n\nAdelperga was tutored by Paul the Deacon. In c. 757, she was married to Arechis II, Duke of Benevento. She remained in contact with Paulus, who at her request wrote his continuation of Eutropius in c. 775.\nPaul also dedicated to Adelperga his \"Versus de Annis\", an acrostic spelling \"Adelperga pia\".\n\nAdelperga and Arechis had five children,\n\nAfter the fall of the Kingdom of the Lombards to Charlemagne, Adelperga's parents and sister were exiled to Francia, where they were imprisoned in religious houses. Adelperga and her other sister Liutperga then embarked upon a struggle to regain their patrimony and take revenge upon Charlemagne. Liutperga ultimately brought ruin upon herself and her family by encouraging her husband Tassilo to rebel against Charlemagne, his cousin: Charlemagne discovered Tassilo's plots and confiscated all his goods. Tassilo, Liutperga and their children were then banished to monasteries.\n\nAdelperga was more successful; her husband resisted Charlemagne for some time, until in 787 he agreed to make peace with Charlemagne; at the encouragement of his wife and the Byzantines, he refused the peace treaty, which would have entailed surrendering part of his duchy to the Papacy. Adelperga and Arechis sponsored the church of Santa Sofia in Benevento.\n\nWhen Arechis died on 26 August 787, Adelperga acted as a regent for a few months because Charlemagne hesitated to release Adeleperga's son Grimoald, whom he kept as a hostage.\nGrimoald was released and acceded as duke in February 787. After this, there are no further mentions of Adelperga. Grimoald swore fealty to Charlemagne and defeated a Byzantine invasion commanded by Adelchis.\n"}
{"id": "11681885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11681885", "title": "António I of Kongo", "text": "António I of Kongo\n\nAntónio I Nvita a Nkanga was a mwenekongo of the Kingdom of Kongo who ruled from 1661 to his defeat and death at the Battle of Mbwila on October 29, 1665. He was elected following the death of King Garcia II. Like the former king, António I pursued a foreign policy focused at removing the Portuguese from his region.\n\nSince 1620, Kongo and Portugal had been in a near-constant state of war with the only intervals coming after decisive BaKongo victories. After almost 30 years of decline in the face of BaKongo, Mbundu and Dutch military victories, the Portuguese had retaken their colonial possession in Luanda while establishing a tenuous peace with their old enemies. Feeling threatened by Portugal's return on Kongo's southern border, António I sought to renew Kongo's war against the Portuguese with a new alliance similar to the one at the Battle of Kitombo. Unable to rely on the Dutch for assistance, he sent emissaries to Spain but failed to procure an alliance. He also contacted Kongo's Mbundu allies in Matamba and the semi-independent kingdoms of Dembos and Mbwila.\n\nThe Portuguese got wind of these plans and were also pressing claims to sovereignty over the small kingdom of Mbwila. When a succession dispute between Mbwila's king (supported by Kongo) and his aunt (supported by Portugal) erupted, the rivals both came with armies to settle the dispute. At the Battle of Mbwila the BaKongo suffered their worst military defeat, resulting in the death of hundreds including King António who had led a contingent of 400 swordsmen into the battle. King António I was decapitated during or shortly after the battle (his head buried with royal honours by the Portuguese) while his crown and sceptre were taken to Portugal as trophies.\n\nKing António died with no heir apparent. Many of the men who could have taken his place died or were captured at the battle including his seven-year-old son. The ruling House of Kinlaza and the opposing House of Kimpanzu fought furiously over the throne causing a devastating civil war. The heyday of the Kingdom of Kongo was at an end, and it would take forty years for the kingdom to be reunited.\n\n"}
{"id": "1773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1773", "title": "Apollo 7", "text": "Apollo 7\n\nApollo 7 was an October 1968 human spaceflight mission carried out by the United States. It was the first mission in the United States' Apollo program to carry a crew into space. It was also the first U.S. spaceflight to carry astronauts since the flight of Gemini XII in November 1966. The AS-204 mission, also known as \"Apollo 1\", was intended to be the first manned flight of the Apollo program. It was scheduled to launch in February 1967, but a fire in the cabin during a January 1967 test killed the crew. Manned flights were then suspended for 21 months, while the cause of the accident was investigated and improvements made to the spacecraft and safety procedures, and unmanned test flights of the Saturn V rocket and Apollo Lunar Module were made. Apollo 7 fulfilled Apollo 1's mission of testing the Apollo Command/Service Module (CSM) in low Earth orbit.\n\nThe Apollo 7 crew was commanded by Walter M. Schirra, with senior pilot / navigator Donn F. Eisele, and pilot / systems engineer R. Walter Cunningham. Official crew titles were made consistent with those that would be used for the manned lunar landing missions: Eisele was \"Command Module Pilot\" and Cunningham was \"Lunar Module Pilot\". Their mission was Apollo's 'C' mission, an 11-day Earth-orbital test flight to check out the redesigned Block II CSM with a crew on board. It was the first time a Saturn IB vehicle put a crew into space; Apollo 7 was the first three-person American space mission, and the first to include a live TV broadcast from an American spacecraft. It was launched on October 11, 1968, from what was then known as Cape Kennedy Air Force Station, Florida. Despite tension between the crew and ground controllers, the mission was a complete technical success, giving NASA the confidence to send Apollo 8 into orbit around the Moon two months later. The flight would prove to be the final space flight for all of its three crew members—and the only one for both Cunningham and Eisele—when it splashed down in the Atlantic Ocean on October 22, 1968. It was also the only manned launch from Launch Complex 34, as well as the last launch from the complex.\n\n\nSchirra, Eisele, and Cunningham were first named as an Apollo crew on September 29, 1966. They were to fly a second Earth orbital test of the original Block I Command/Service module (not designed to dock with the Apollo Lunar Module for lunar flight) after Apollo 1, the first manned flight, to be made by Virgil \"Gus\" Grissom, Ed White, and Roger Chaffee. In December 1966, the second mission was deemed redundant and canceled, and Schirra's crew were reassigned as Grissom's backup.\n\nPlans for the first manned Apollo flights were completely disrupted by the January 27, 1967 cabin fire which killed Grissom, White, and Chaffee. Schirra, Eisele, and Cunningham were later named as prime crew for the first manned flight, which would now use the Block II spacecraft designed for the lunar missions. The Command Module (CM) and astronauts' spacesuits had been extensively redesigned, to reduce and eliminate the chance of a repeat of the accident which killed the first crew. Schirra thus became the only astronaut to fly Mercury, Gemini and Apollo missions. His crew would test the life support, propulsion, guidance and control systems during this \"open-ended\" mission (meaning it would be extended as it passed each test). The duration was limited to 11 days, reduced from the original 14-day limit for Apollo 1. Since it flew in low Earth orbit and did not include the Lunar Module (LM), Apollo 7 was launched with the Saturn IB booster rather than the much larger and more powerful Saturn V.\n\nThroughout the Mercury and Gemini programs, McDonnell Aircraft engineer Guenter Wendt had been leader of the spacecraft launch pad teams, with ultimate responsibility for condition of the spacecraft at launch. He earned the astronauts' respect and admiration, including Schirra's. However, the spacecraft contractor had changed from McDonnell (Mercury & Gemini) to North American Rockwell (Apollo), so Wendt was not the pad leader for Apollo 1.\n\nSo adamant was Schirra in his desire to have Wendt back as Pad Leader for his Apollo flight, that he got his boss Deke Slayton to persuade North American management to hire Wendt away from McDonnell, and Schirra personally lobbied North American's launch operations manager to change Wendt's shift from midnight to day so he could be pad leader for Apollo 7. Wendt remained as Pad Leader for the entire Apollo program.\n\nWendt's face was the last they saw before the hatch was sealed, and immediately after liftoff Eisele said with a mock German accent into his radio, \"I vonder vere Guenter Vendt?\"\n\nThe first manned American space flight in 22 months lifted from LC-34 at 15:02:45 UTC on Friday, October 11, 1968. Liftoff proceeded flawlessly; the Saturn IB performed well on its first manned launch and there were no significant anomalies during the boost phase. The astronauts described it as very smooth riding compared to the rough, bumpy Titan II used to launch the Gemini spacecraft.\n\nFollowing orbital injection and separation from the S-IVB, the crew turned the CSM around using its Reaction Control System thrusters, and Eisele practiced a simulated Lunar Module rendezvous and docking, using a visual reference target mounted inside the spacecraft adapter in the same radial position it occupied on the LM. One of the adapter panels on the S-IVB failed to completely deploy to its 45 degree open position, reminding CAPCOM Tom Stafford of his \"angry alligator\" experience on Gemini 9A, when docking was prevented by mis-deployed adapter panels. Had this been an actual lunar mission, the astronauts might have found the process of LM extraction from the adapter more difficult, risking possible damage. This reinforced the decision to add a system to completely separate and jettison the panels on all subsequent Apollo-Saturn V flights.\n\nThe Apollo hardware and all mission operations worked without any significant problems, and the Service Propulsion System (SPS), the all-important engine that would place Apollo into and out of lunar orbit, made eight firings, performing within 1% of the engine acceptance test thrust and specific impulse values. As the Saturn IB itself had performed very smoothly during launch, the astronauts were unprepared for the sudden violent jolt they received upon first activating the SPS, leading to Schirra yelling \"Yabbadabbadoo!\" in reference to \"The Flintstones\" cartoon. Don Eisele called it \"a real boot in the rear.\"\n\nAn assortment of minor hardware problems occurred over the flight; these included the drinking water hose trigger sticking during the final two days, a momentary undervoltage of the main AC buses caused by the automatic cryo fan switch in the service module LOX and LH2 tanks, and a loss of telemetry due to a malfunctioning electrical commutator following SM jettison at the end of the mission, meaning that the final 15 minutes of data transmission were lost. Aside from the last event, which remained a mystery despite postflight testing of the commutator, all of the problems on Apollo 7 were quickly resolved and some of them also involved equipment or procedures that would not be used on subsequent missions.\n\nApollo promised the best food preparation yet seen on a manned spacecraft. For the first time, astronauts had both hot and cold water to prepare meals with (the food came in freeze-dried vacuum packs that would be injected with water or else eaten dry followed by a sip of water) and Wally Schirra, who had had only toothpaste-like tubes for food on his Mercury flight, described the food as \"Still does not match home cooking, but it comes a lot closer than space food used to.\" Thirty-three meals were provided for the three crewmen, allowing them three meals a day for each of the 11 days in space. Even so, the astronauts complained that there was more food than they could eat and that most of it was too sweet, although the menus had been prepared based on their personal preferences.\n\nEarly fears that the movement of the astronauts inside the CM would make it hard for the spacecraft's attitude control system to stabilize it proved unfounded, and they reported that motion was \"incredibly easy\" with no gravity to work against. As sleeping in the fetal position was cramping and painful, a stretching device called the Exer-Genie was provided for relaxing aching muscles.\n\nAnother mission goal was the first live television broadcast from an American spacecraft (Gordon Cooper had transmitted slow scan television pictures from \"Faith 7\" in 1963, which were never broadcast). It was initially scheduled for midday on day two, but Schirra was concerned with the broadcast interfering with the rendezvous test.\n\nEven though Apollo's larger cabin was more comfortable than Gemini's, 11 days in orbit took its toll on the astronauts. Tension with Schirra began with the launch decision, when flight managers decided to launch with a less-than-ideal abort option for the early part of the ascent. Once in orbit, the spacious cabin may have induced some crew motion sickness, which had not been an issue in the earlier, smaller spacecraft. The crew were unhappy with their food selections, especially the high energy sweets. They also found the waste collection system cumbersome (requiring 30 minutes to use) and smelly. But the worst problem occurred when Schirra developed a severe head cold. As a result, he became irritable with requests from Mission Control and all three astronauts began \"talking back\" to the CAPCOM. An early example was this exchange after Mission Control requested that a TV camera be turned on in the spacecraft:\nSCHIRRA: You've added two burns to this flight schedule, and you've added a urine water dump; and we have a new vehicle up here, and I can tell you at this point TV will be delayed without any further discussion until after the rendezvous.\nCAPCOM (Jack Swigert): Roger. Copy.\nSCHIRRA: Roger.\nCAPCOM 1 (Deke Slayton): Apollo 7, this is CAPCOM number 1.\nSCHIRRA: Roger.\nCAPCOM 1: All we've agreed to do on this is flip it. \nSCHIRRA: ... with two commanders, Apollo 7\nCAPCOM 1: All we have agreed to on this particular pass is to flip the switch on. No other activity is associated with TV; I think we are still obligated to do that.\nSCHIRRA: We do not have the equipment out; we have not had an opportunity to follow setting; we have not eaten at this point. At this point, I have a cold. I refuse to foul up our time lines this way.\nA further source of tension between Mission Control and the crew was that Schirra repeatedly expressed the view that the reentry should be conducted with their helmets off, contrary to previous Project Mercury and Gemini experience. They perceived a risk that their eardrums might burst due to the sinus pressure from their colds, and they wanted to be able to pinch their noses and blow to equalize the pressure as it increased during reentry. This would have been impossible wearing the helmets, as the new Apollo helmets were a continuous \"fishbowl\" type without a moveable visor, unlike previous helmets. However, on repeated occasions over the course of the mission, Schirra was instructed that the helmets should be worn for safety reasons. In the final exchange on the subject, Mission Control made it clear to Schirra that he would be expected to account for flouting instructions:\n\nCAPCOM 1 (Deke Slayton): Okay. I think you ought to clearly understand that there is absolutely no experience at all with landing without the helmet on. \nSCHIRRA: And there is no experience with the helmet either on that one. \nCAPCOM 1: That one we've got a lot of experience with, yes. \nSCHIRRA: If we had an open visor, I might go along with that. \nCAPCOM 1: Okay. I guess you better be prepared to discuss in some detail when we land why we haven't got them on. I think you're too late now to do much about it. \nSCHIRRA: That's affirmative. I don't think anybody down there has worn the helmets as much as we have. \nCAPCOM 1: Yes. \nSCHIRRA: We tried them on this morning. \nCAPCOM 1: Understand that. The only thing we're concerned about is the landing. We couldn't care less\nabout the reentry. But it's your neck, and I hope you don't break it. \nSCHIRRA: Thank you, babe. \nCAPCOM 1: Over and out.\nExchanges such as this led to Eisele and Cunningham being rejected for future missions (Schirra had already announced his impending retirement from NASA). Some have observed that the psychology unique to the high-pressure spaceflight environment that led to such workplace tension was poorly grasped at the time, but it became better understood during the Skylab program and especially by the much-later Shuttle–Mir Program.\n\nThe splashdown point was , SSW of Bermuda and north of the recovery ship USS \"Essex\".\n\nDespite the difficulties between the crew and Mission Control, the mission successfully met its objectives to verify the Apollo Command and Service Modules' flight worthiness, allowing Apollo 8's flight to the Moon to proceed just two months later. Apollo 7 was Project Apollo's only human spaceflight mission to launch from Cape Kennedy Air Force Station's Launch Complex 34. All subsequent Apollo and Skylab spacecraft flights (including Apollo–Soyuz) were launched from Launch Complex 39 at the nearby Kennedy Space Center. Launch Complex 34 was declared redundant and decommissioned in 1969, making Apollo 7 the last human spaceflight mission to launch from the Cape Air Force Station in the 20th century. As of January 2017, Cunningham is the only surviving member of the crew. Eisele died in 1987 and Schirra in 2007.\n\nThe insignia for the flight shows a Command and Service module with its SPS engine firing, the trail from that fire encircling a globe and extending past the edges of the patch symbolizing the Earth-orbital nature of the mission. The Roman numeral VII appears in the South Pacific Ocean and the crew's names appear on a wide black arc at the bottom. The patch was designed by Allen Stevens of Rockwell International.\n\nAfter the mission, NASA awarded Schirra, Eisele, and Cunningham its Exceptional Service Medal in recognition of their success. On November 2, 1968, President Lyndon Johnson held a ceremony at the LBJ Ranch in Johnson City, Texas, to present the astronauts with the medals. He also presented NASA's highest honor, the Distinguished Service Medal, to recently retired NASA administrator James E. Webb, for his \"outstanding leadership of America's space program\" since the beginning of Apollo.\n\nSchirra, Eisele, and Cunningham were the only crew, of all the Apollo, Skylab, and Apollo-Soyuz Test Project missions, who had not been awarded the Distinguished Service Medal immediately following their missions (though Schirra had received the medal twice before, for his Mercury and Gemini missions). Therefore, NASA administrator Michael D. Griffin decided to belatedly award the medals to the crew in October 2008, \"[f]or exemplary performance in meeting all the Apollo 7 mission objectives and more on the first manned Apollo mission, paving the way for the first flight to the Moon on Apollo 8 and the first manned lunar landing on Apollo 11.\" Only Cunningham was still alive at the time; Eisele's widow accepted his medal, and Apollo 8 crew member Bill Anders accepted Schirra's. Other Apollo astronauts, including Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Alan Bean, were present at the award ceremony. Former Flight Director Christopher C. Kraft, Jr., who had been in conflict with the crew during the mission, sent a conciliatory video message of congratulations, saying: \"We gave you a hard time once but you certainly survived that and have done extremely well since ... I am frankly, very proud to call you a friend.\"\n\nIn January 1969, the Apollo 7 Command Module was displayed on a NASA float in the inauguration parade of President Richard M. Nixon. For nearly 30 years the Command Module was on loan (renewable every two years) to the National Museum of Science and Technology, in Ottawa, Ontario, along with the space suit worn by Wally Schirra. In November 2003, the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., requested them back for display at their new annex at the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center. Currently, the Apollo 7 CM is on loan to the Frontiers of Flight Museum located next to Love Field in Dallas, Texas.\n\nOn November 6, 1968, comedian Bob Hope broadcast one of his variety television specials from NASA's Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston to honor the Apollo 7 crew. Barbara Eden, star of the popular comedy series \"I Dream of Jeannie\", which featured two fictional astronauts among its regular characters, appeared with Schirra, Eisele and Cunningham.\n\nSchirra parlayed the head cold he contracted during Apollo 7 into a television advertising contract as a spokesman for Actifed, an over the counter version of the medicine he took in space.\n\nThe Apollo 7 mission is dramatized in the 1998 miniseries \"From the Earth to the Moon\" episode \"We Have Cleared the Tower\", with Mark Harmon as Schirra, John Mese as Eisele, Fredric Lehne as Cunningham, and Max Wright as Wendt.\n\nA documentary produced by George Van Valkenburg, \"The Log of Apollo 7\", has been restored from 16 mm film and posted online.\n\n\n\n\nMultimedia\n"}
{"id": "8253349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8253349", "title": "Attaces", "text": "Attaces\n\nAddac or Attaces (died 418) was king of the western Alans in Hispania (the Iberian Peninsula, modern Spain and Portugal). In 409, the Alans settled in the provinces of Lusitania and Carthaginiensis: \"Alani Lusitaniam et Carthaginiensem provincias, et Wandali cognomine Silingi Baeticam sortiuntur\". Some doubt whether the Alans held all or just parts of Carthaginiensis.\n\nHe was the successor of Respendial, who led the Alans, together with the Vandals and Suevi, on an invasion of the western Roman Empire beginning in 406. In 418 Attaces was defeated and killed in battle with the Visigothic king Wallia, who had attacked the invading tribes on behalf of the emperor Honorius, in \"Tartessian\" lands, probably near Gibraltar. The remainder of the western Alans in Iberia appealed to the Vandal king Gunderic to accept the Alan crown. Later Vandal kings in North Africa styled themselves \"rex Wandalorum et Alanorum\" (King of the Vandals and Alans). \n\n"}
{"id": "38907720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38907720", "title": "Autowave", "text": "Autowave\n\nAutowaves are self-supporting non-linear waves in active media (i.e. those that provide distributed energy sources). The term is generally used in processes where the waves carry relatively low energy, which is necessary for synchronization or switching the active medium.\n\nIn 1980, the Soviet scientists G.R. Ivanitsky, V.I. Krinsky, A.N. Zaikin, A.M. Zhabotinsky, B.P. Belousov became winners of the highest state award of the USSR, \"\"for the discovery of a new class of autowave processes and the study of them in disturbance of stability of the distributed excitable systems\".\"\n\nThe first who studied actively the self-oscillations was Academician AA Andronov, and the term \"auto-oscillations\" in Russian terminology was introduced by AA Andronov in 1928. His followers from Lobachevsky University further contributed greatly to the development of \"autowave theory\".\n\nThe simplest autowave equations describing combustion processes have been studied by A.N. Kolmogorov, I.E. Petrovsky, in 1937., as well as by Ya.B. Zel'dovich и D.A. Frank-Kamenetsky in 1938.\n\nThe classical axiomatic model with autowaves in myocardium was published in 1946 by Norbert Wiener and Arturo Rosenblueth.\n\nDuring 1970-80, major efforts to study autowaves were concentrated in the Institute of Biological Physics of the USSR Academy of Sciences, located in the suburban town Pushchino, near Moscow. It was here, under the guidance of V.I.Krinsky, such world-famous now experts in the field of the autowave researches as A.V.Panfilov, I.R.Efimov, R.R.Aliev, K.I. Agladze, O.A.Mornev, M.A.Tsyganov were educated and trained. V.V.Biktashev, Yu.E. Elkin, A.V. Moskalenko gained their experience with the autowave theory also in Pushchino, in the neighboring Institute of Mathematical Problems of Biology, under the guidance of E.E.Shnoll.\n\nThe term \"\"autowaves\" was proposed, probably, on the analogy of previously \"auto-oscillations\"\".\n\nAlmost immediately after the Dissolution of the Soviet Union, many of these Russian scientists left their native country for working in foreign institutions, where they still continue their studies of autowaves. In particular, E.R.Efimov is developing the \"theory of virtual electrode\", which describes some effects occurring during defibrillation.\n\nAmong other notable scientists, who are engaged in these investigation, there are A.N. Zaikin and E.E.Shnoll (autowaves and bifurcation memory in the blood coagulation system); A.Yu. Loskutov (general autowave theory as well as dynamic chaos in autowaves); V.G. Yakhno (general autowave theory as well as connections between autowaves and process of thinking); K.I. Agladze (autowaves in chemical media); V.N.Biktashev (general autowave theory as well as different sorts of autowave drift); O.A.Mornev (general autowave theory); M.A.Tsyganov (the role of autowave in population dynamics); Yu.E. Elkin, A.V. Moskalenko, (bifurcation memory in a model of cardiac tissue).\n\nA huge role in the study of autowave models of cardiac tissue belongs to Denis Noble and members of his team from the University of Oxford.\n\nOne of the first definitions of autowaves was as follows: \n\nUnlike linear waves — such as sound waves, electromagnetic waves and other, which are inherent in conservative systems and mathematically described by linear second order hyperbolic equations (wave equations), — dynamics of an \"autowave\" in terms of differential equations can be described by parabolic equation \"with nonlinear free member of a special form\".\n\nThe concrete form of the free member formula_1 is extremely important, because: = \\vec{f}(\\vec{u})</math>, which is a self-oscillating or potentially self-oscillating.\n\nвсе волновые процессы порождаются динамикой нелинейной точечной системы formula_2, которая является автоколебательной или потенциально автоколебательной. \n\nCommonly, formula_3 have the form of formula_4-shaped dependence on formula_5. In this sense, the system of equations, known as the Aliev–Panfilov model, is a very exotic example, because formula_6 has in it a very complex form of two intersecting parabolas, besides more crossed with two straight lines, resulting in a more pronounced nonlinear properties of this model.\n\n\"Autowaves\" is an example of a self-sustaining wave process in extensive nonlinear systems containing distributed energy sources. It is correct for simple autowaves, that period, wavelength, propagation speed, amplitude, and some other characteristics of an autowave are determined solely by local properties of the medium. However, in the 21st century, researchers began to discover a growing number of examples of self-wave solutions when the \"classical\" principle is violated.\n\n(See also general information in literature, for example, in).\n\nThe simplest model of autowave is a rank of dominoes that are falling one after another, if you drop an outermost one (so called \"domino effect\"). This is an example of a \"switching wave\".\n\nAs another example of autowaves, imagine that you stand on a field and set fire to the grass. While the temperature is below the threshold, the grass will not take fire. Upon reaching the \"threshold\" temperature (autoignition temperature) the combustion process begins, with the release of heat sufficient to ignite the nearest areas. The result is that the combustion front has been shaped, which spreads through the field. It can be said in such cases that autowave arose, which is one of the results of self-organization in non-equilibrium thermodynamic systems. After some time new grass replaces the burnt grass, and the field acquires again the ability for igniting. This is an example of an \"excitation wave\".\n\nThere are a great deal of other natural objects that are also considered among autowave processes: oscillatory chemical reactions in active media (e.g., Belousov–Zhabotinsky reaction), the spread of excitation pulses along nerve fibres, wave chemical signalling in the colonies of certain microorganisms, autowaves in ferroelectric and semiconductor films, population waves, spread of epidemics and of genes, and many other phenomena.\n\nNerve impulses, which serve as a typical example of autowaves in an active medium with recovery, were studied as far back as 1850 by Hermann von Helmholtz. The properties of nerve impulses that are typical for the simplest self-wave solutions (universal shape and amplitude, independent of the initial conditions, and annihilation under collisions) were ascertained in the 1920s and 1930s.\nLet's consider a 2D active medium consisting of elements, each of which can be found in three different states: rest, excitation and refractoriness. In the absence of external influence, elements are at rest. As a result of an influence upon it, when the concentration of the activator reaches the threshold, the element will switch to an excited state, acquiring the ability to excite the neighbouring elements. Some time after the excitation the element switches to a refractory state, in which it cannot be excited. Then the element return to its initial state of rest, gaining again the ability to transform into an excited state.\n\nAny \"classical\" excitation wave moves in an excitable medium without attenuation, maintaining its shape and amplitude constant. As it passes, the energy loss (dissipation) is completely offset by the energy input from the elements of the active medium. The leading front of an autowave (the transition from rest to a state of excitation) is usually very small: for example, the ratio of the leading front duration to the entire duration of the pulse for a myocardium sample is about 1:330.\n\nUnique opportunities to study the autowave processes in two- and three-dimensional active media with very different kinetics are provided with methods of mathematical modelling using computers. For computer simulation of autowaves, one uses a generalized Wiener–Rosenblueth model, as well as a large number of other models, among which a special place is occupied by The FitzHugh–Nagumo model (the simplest model of an active medium, and its various versions) and The Hodgkin–Huxley model (nerve impulse). There are also many autowave myocardial models: The Beeler–Reuter model, several Noble models (developed by Denis Noble), The Aliev–Panfilov model, The Fenton-Karma model, etc.\n\nIt was also proven that the simplest autowave regimes should be common to every system of differential equations of any complexity that describe a particular active media, because such a system can be simplified to two differential equations.\n\nFirst of all, we should notice, that the elements of the active media can be, at least, of three very different types; these are \"self-exciting\", \"excitable\" and \"trigger\" (or \"bistable\") regimes. Accordingly, there are three types of homogeneous active media composed of these elements.\n\nA bistable element has two stable stationary states, transitions between which occur when external influence exceeds a certain threshold. In media of such elements, \"switching waves\" arise, which switch the medium from one of its states to the other. For instance, a classic case of such a switching autowave — perhaps, the simplest autowave phenomena — is falling dominoes (the example already given). Another simple example of a bistable medium is burning paper: the switching wave propagates in the form of a flame, switching paper from the normal state to its ashes.\n\nAn excitable element has only one stable stationary state. External influence over a threshold level can bring such an element out of its stationary state and perform an evolution before the element will return again to its stationary state. During such evolution, the active element can affect the adjacent elements and, in turn, lead them out of the stationary state too. As a result, the \"excitation wave\" propagates in this medium. This is the most common form of autowaves in biological media, such as nervous tissue, or the myocardium.\nA self-oscillating element has no stationary states and continually performs stable oscillations of some fixed form, amplitude and frequency. External influence can disturb these oscillations. After some relaxation time, all their characteristics except for the phase back to its stable value, but the phase can be changed. As a result, the \"phase waves\" spread in the medium of such elements. Such phase waves can be observed in electro-garlands or in certain chemical media. An example of a self-oscillating medium is the SA node in the heart, in which excitation pulses arise spontaneously.\n\nIt can be clearly seen on the phase portrait of the basic system of equations describing the active medium (see Fig.) that a significant difference between these three types of behaviour of an active medium is caused by the quantity and the position of its singular points. The shape of autowaves observed in reality can be very similar to each other, and therefore it can be difficult to assess the type of element only by the form of the excitation pulse.\n\nBesides, autowave phenomena, which can be observed and investigated, depend greatly on geometrical and topological peculiarities of an active medium.\n\nOne-dimensional cases include autowave spread in cable and its spread in the ring, with the latter mode considering as a limiting case of a rotating wave in two-dimensional active medium, while the first case is considered as spread of the autowave in the ring with zero curvature (i.e., with an infinite radius).\n\nA number of autowave sources is known in the two-dimensional active media. In such a way, it is distinguished at least five type of re-entry, which are \"running around the ring\", \"spiral wave\", \"reverberator\" (i.e., \"two-dimensional autowave vortex\") and \"fibrillation\". The literature identifies two types of sources of \"concentric autowaves\" in 2D active media; these are \"pacemakers\" and \"leading centres\". Both the \"leading centres\" and \"reverberators\" are interesting, because they are not tied to the structure of the medium and can appear and disappear in its different parts. Areas of increased automation may also be an example of a sources of autowaves. Three different types of increased automation are known now:\n\nIn addition about 2D\n\nSee also details in the article rotating autowaves, which may appears as spiral wave or autowave reverberator.\n\nPhenomena of bifurcation memory were observed in behaviour of the autowave reverberator in the Aliev–Panfilov model.\n\n3D.\n\nAn example of a chemical reaction, which in certain circumstances may produce autowave, is the Belousov–Zhabotinsky reaction.\n\nThe main item on the page \"Hodgkin–Huxley model\"\n\nThe classical Wiener—Rosenblueth model, which is, accordingly, developed by Norbert Wiener and Arturo Rosenblueth.\n\nAmong other examples are the following: FitxHue-Nagumo, the Beeler-Reuter model.\n\nMain article is planned to be on the special page \"Autowave models of myocardium\"\n\nSee References.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "191941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191941", "title": "Bioethics", "text": "Bioethics\n\nBioethics is the study of the ethical issues emerging from advances in biology and medicine. It is also moral discernment as it relates to medical policy and practice. Bioethics are concerned with the ethical questions that arise in the relationships among life sciences, biotechnology, medicine, politics, law, and philosophy. It includes the study of values (\"the ethics of the ordinary\") relating to primary care and other branches of medicine. Ethics relates to many other sciences and bio sciences.\n\nThe term \"Bioethics\" (Greek \"bios\", life; \"ethos\", behavior) was coined in 1926 by Fritz Jahr in an article about a \"bioethical imperative\" regarding the use of animals and plants in scientific research. In 1970, the American biochemist Van Rensselaer Potter used the term to describe the relationship between the biosphere and a growing human population. Potter's work laid the foundation for global ethics, a discipline centered around the link between biology, ecology, medicine, and human values.\n\nThe field of bioethics has addressed a broad swathe of human inquiry, ranging from debates over the boundaries of life (e.g. abortion, euthanasia), surrogacy, the allocation of scarce health care resources (e.g. organ donation, health care rationing) to the right to refuse medical care for religious or cultural reasons. Bioethicists often disagree among themselves over the precise limits of their discipline, debating whether the field should concern itself with the ethical evaluation of all questions involving biology and medicine, or only a subset of these questions. Some bioethicists would narrow ethical evaluation only to the morality of medical treatments or technological innovations, and the timing of medical treatment of humans. Others would broaden the scope of ethical evaluation to include the morality of all actions that might help or harm organisms capable of feeling fear.\n\nThe scope of bioethics can expand with biotechnology, including cloning, gene therapy, life extension, human genetic engineering, astroethics and life in space, and manipulation of basic biology through altered DNA, XNA and proteins. These developments will affect future evolution, and may require new principles that address life at its core, such as biotic ethics that values life itself at its basic biological processes and structures, and seeks their propagation.\n\nOne of the first areas addressed by modern bioethicists was that of human experimentation. The National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research was initially established in 1974 to identify the basic ethical principles that should underlie the conduct of biomedical and behavioral research involving human subjects. However, the fundamental principles announced in the Belmont Report (1979)—namely, respect for persons, beneficence and justice—have influenced the thinking of bioethicists across a wide range of issues. Others have added non-maleficence, human dignity and the sanctity of life to this list of cardinal values. Overall, the Belmont Report (1979) has guided research in a direction focused on protecting vulnerable subjects as well as pushing for transparency between the researcher and the subject. Research has flourished within the past 40 years and due to the advance in technology, it is thought that human subjects have outgrown the Belmont Report (1979) and the need for revision is desired.\n\nAnother important principle of bioethics is its placement of value on discussion and presentation. Numerous discussion based bioethics groups exist in universities across the United States to champion exactly such goals. Examples include the Ohio State Bioethics Society and the Bioethics Society of Cornell. Professional level versions of these organizations also exist.\n\nMany bioethicists, especially medical scholars, accord the highest priority to autonomy. They believe that each patient should determine which course of action they consider most in line with their beliefs. In other words, the patient should always have the freedom to choose their own treatment .\n\nMedical ethics is the study of moral values and judgments as they apply to medicine. The four main moral commitments are respect for autonomy, beneficence, nonmaleficence, and justice. Using these four principles and thinking about what the physicians’ specific concern is for their scope of practice can help physicians make moral decisions. As a scholarly discipline, medical ethics encompasses its practical application in clinical settings as well as work on its history, philosophy, theology, and sociology.\n\nMedical ethics tends to be understood narrowly as an applied professional ethics, whereas bioethics has a more expansive application, touching upon the philosophy of science and issues of biotechnology. The two fields often overlap, and the distinction is more a matter of style than professional consensus. Medical ethics shares many principles with other branches of healthcare ethics, such as nursing ethics. A bioethicist assists the health care and research community in examining moral issues involved in our understanding of life and death, resolving ethical dilemmas in medicine and science. Examples of this would be the topic of equality in medicine, the intersection of cultural practices and medical care, and issues of bioterrorism.\n\nBioethicists come from a wide variety of backgrounds and have training in a diverse array of disciplines. The field contains individuals trained in philosophy such as H. Tristram Engelhardt, Jr. of Rice University, Baruch Brody of Rice University, Peter Singer of Princeton University, Daniel Callahan of the Hastings Center, and Daniel Brock of Harvard University; medically trained clinician ethicists such as Mark Siegler of the University of Chicago and Joseph Fins of Cornell University; lawyers such as Nancy Dubler of Albert Einstein College of Medicine or Jerry Menikoff of the federal Office of Human Research Protections; political scientists like Francis Fukuyama; religious studies scholars including James Childress; public intellectuals like Amitai Etzioni of The George Washington University; and theologians like Lisa Sowle Cahill and Stanley Hauerwas. The field, once dominated by formally trained philosophers, has become increasingly interdisciplinary, with some critics even claiming that the methods of analytic philosophy have had a negative effect on the field's development. Leading journals in the field include The \"Journal of Medicine and Philosophy\", The \"Hastings Center Report\", the \"American Journal of Bioethics\", the \"Journal of Medical Ethics\", \"Bioethics\", the \"Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal\" and the \"Cambridge Quarterly of Healthcare Ethics\". Bioethics has also benefited from the process philosophy developed by Alfred North Whitehead.\n\nMany religious communities have their own histories of inquiry into bioethical issues and have developed rules and guidelines on how to deal with these issues from within the viewpoint of their respective faiths. The Jewish, Christian and\nMuslim faiths have each developed a considerable body of literature on these matters. In the case of many non-Western cultures, a strict separation of religion from philosophy does not exist. In many Asian cultures, for example, there is a lively discussion on bioethical issues. Buddhist bioethics, in general, is characterised by a naturalistic outlook that leads to a rationalistic, pragmatic approach. Buddhist bioethicists include Damien Keown. In India, Vandana Shiva is a leading bioethicist speaking from the Hindu tradition. In Africa, and partly also in Latin America, the debate on bioethics frequently focuses on its practical relevance in the context of underdevelopment and geopolitical power relations. Masahiro Morioka argues that in Japan the bioethics movement was first launched by disability activists and feminists in the early 1970s, while academic bioethics began in the mid-1980s. During this period, unique philosophical discussions on brain death and disability appeared both in the academy and journalism.\n\nBioethics is taught in courses at the undergraduate and graduate level in different academic disciplines or programs, such as Philosophy, Medicine, Law, Social Sciences. It has become a requirement for professional accreditation in many health professional programs (Medicine, Nursing, Rehabilitation), to have obligatory training in ethics (e.g., professional ethics, medical ethics, clinical ethics, nursing ethics). Interest in the field and professional opportunities have led to the development of dedicated programs with concentrations in Bioethics, largely in the United States and Europe, offering undergraduate majors/minors, graduate certificates, and Masters and Doctorate degrees.\n\nAs a study, bioethics has also drawn criticism. For instance, Paul Farmer noted that bioethics tends to focus its attention on problems that arise from \"too much care\" for patients in industrialized nations, while giving little or no attention to the ethical problem of too little care for the poor. Farmer characterizes the bioethics of handling morally difficult clinical situations, normally in hospitals in industrialized countries, as \"quandary ethics\". He does not regard quandary ethics and clinical bioethics as unimportant; he argues, rather, that bioethics must be balanced and give due weight to the poor.\n\nAdditionally, bioethics has been condemned for its lack of diversity in thought, particularly with regards to race. Even as the field has grown to include the areas of public opinion, policymaking, and medical decisions, little to no academic writing has been authored concerning the intersection between race- especially the cultural values imbued in that construct- and bioethical literature. John Hoberman illustrates this in a 2016 critique, in which he points out that bioethicists have been traditionally resistant to expanding their discourse to include sociological and historically relevant applications. Central to this is the notion of white normativity, which establishes the dominance of white hegemonic structures in bioethical academia and tends to reinforce existing biases. \n\nSome criticisms have been made about the experience of disability. Some people in the disabled community feel that mainstream bioethics embraces ableist premises about medical care and resources. Thinkers such as Princeton's Peter Singer, who has argued that parents have the right to choose healthy children over disabled ones, have upset people with disabilities, who feel threatened by his position.\n\nAreas of health sciences that are the subject of published, peer-reviewed bioethical analysis include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1651963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1651963", "title": "Biomedical cybernetics", "text": "Biomedical cybernetics\n\nBiomedical cybernetics investigates signal processing, decision making and control structures in living organisms. Applications of this research field are in biology, ecology and health sciences.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1181008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1181008", "title": "Computational science", "text": "Computational science\n\nComputational science (also scientific computing or scientific computation (SC)) is a rapidly growing multidisciplinary field that uses advanced computing capabilities to understand and solve complex problems. It is an area of science which spans many disciplines, but at its core it involves the development of models and simulations to understand natural systems.\n\nIn practical use, it is typically the application of computer simulation and other forms of computation from numerical analysis and theoretical computer science to solve problems in various scientific disciplines. The field is different from theory and laboratory experiment which are the traditional forms of science and engineering. The scientific computing approach is to gain understanding, mainly through the analysis of mathematical models implemented on computers. Scientists and engineers develop computer programs, application software, that model systems being studied and run these programs with various sets of input parameters. The essence of computational science is the application of numerical algorithms and/or computational mathematics. In some cases, these models require massive amounts of calculations (usually floating-point) and are often executed on supercomputers or distributed computing platforms.\n\nThe term computational scientist is used to describe someone skilled in scientific computing. This person is usually a scientist, an engineer or an applied mathematician who applies high-performance computing in different ways to advance the state-of-the-art in their respective applied disciplines in physics, chemistry or engineering.\n\nComputational science is now commonly considered a third mode of science, complementing and adding to experimentation/observation and theory (see image on the right). Here, we define a system as a potential source of data, a experiment as a process of extracting data from a system by exerting it through its inputs and a model (\"M\") for a system (\"S\") and an experiment (\"E\") as anything to which E can be applied in order to answer questions about S. A computational scientist should be capable of:\nIn fact, substantial effort in computational sciences has been devoted to the development of algorithms, the efficient implementation in programming languages, and validation of computational results. A collection of problems and solutions in computational science can be found in Steeb, Hardy, Hardy and Stoop (2004).\n\nPhilosophers of science addressed the question to what degree computational science qualifies as science, among them Humphreys and Gelfert They address the general question of epistemology: how do we gain insight from such computational science approaches. Tolk uses these insights to show the epistemological constraints of computer-based simulation research. As computational science uses mathematical models representing the underlying theory in executable form, in essence they apply modeling (theory building) and simulation (implementation and execution). While simulation and computational science are our most sophisticated way to express our knowledge and understanding, they also come with all constraints and limits already known for computational solutions.\n\nProblem domains for computational science/scientific computing include:\n\nIn 2015, over half the worlds population live in cities. By the middle of the 21st century, it is estimated that 75% of the world’s population will be urban. This urban growth is focused in the urban populations of developing countries where cities dwellers will more than double, increasing from 2.5 billion in 2009 to almost 5.2 billion in 2050. Cities are massive complex systems created by humans, made up of humans and governed by humans. Trying to predict, understand and somehow shape the development of cities in the future requires complexity thinking, and requires computational models and simulations to help mitigate challenges and possible disasters. The focus of research in urban complex systems is, through modelling and simulation, to build greater understanding of city dynamics and help prepare for the coming urbanisation.\n\nIn today’s financial markets huge volumes of interdependent assets are traded by a large number of interacting market participants in different locations and time zones. Their behavior is of unprecedented complexity and the characterization and measurement of the risk inherent to these highly diverse set of instruments is typically based on complicated mathematical and computational models. Solving these models exactly in closed form, even at a single instrument level, is typically not possible, and therefore we have to look for efficient numerical algorithms. This has become even more urgent and complex recently, as the credit crisis has clearly demonstrated the role of cascading effects going from single instruments through portfolios of single institutions to even the interconnected trading network. Understanding this requires a multi-scale and holistic approach where interdependent risk factors such as market, credit and liquidity risk are modelled simultaneously and at different interconnected scales.\n\nExciting new developments in biotechnology are now revolutionizing biology and biomedical research. Examples of these techniques are high-throughput sequencing, high-throughput quantitative PCR, intra-cellular imaging, in-situ hybridization of gene expression, three-dimensional imaging techniques like Light Sheet Fluorescence Microscopy and Optical Projection, (micro)-Computer Tomography. Given the massive amounts of complicated data that is generated by these techniques, their meaningful interpretation, and even their storage, form major challenges calling for new approaches. Going beyond current bioinformatics approaches, computational biology needs to develop new methods to discover meaningful patterns in these large data sets. Model-based reconstruction of gene networks can be used to organize the gene expression data in systematic way and to guide future data collection. A major challenge here is to understand how gene regulation is controlling fundamental biological processes like biomineralisation and embryogenesis. The sub-processes like gene regulation, organic molecules interacting with the mineral deposition process, cellular processes, physiology and other processes at the tissue and environmental levels are linked. Rather than being directed by a central control mechanism, biomineralisation and embryogenesis can be viewed as an emergent behavior resulting from a complex system in which several sub-processes on very different temporal and spatial scales (ranging from nanometer and nanoseconds to meters and years) are connected into a multi-scale system. One of the few available options to understand such systems is by developing a multi-scale model of the system.\n\nUsing information theory, non-equilibrium dynamics and explicit simulations computational systems theory tries to uncover the true nature of complex adaptive systems.\n\nComputational science and engineering (CSE) is a relatively new discipline that deals with the development and application of computational models and simulations, often coupled with high-performance computing, to solve complex physical problems arising in engineering analysis and design (computational engineering) as well as natural phenomena (computational science). CSE has been described as the \"third mode of discovery\" (next to theory and experimentation). In many fields, computer simulation is integral and therefore essential to business and research. Computer simulation provides the capability to enter fields that are either inaccessible to traditional experimentation or where carrying out traditional empirical inquiries is prohibitively expensive. CSE should neither be confused with pure computer science, nor with computer engineering, although a wide domain in the former is used in CSE (e.g., certain algorithms, data structures, parallel programming, high performance computing) and some problems in the latter can be modeled and solved with CSE methods (as an application area).\n\nAlgorithms and mathematical methods used in computational science are varied. Commonly applied methods include:\nBoth historically and today, Fortran remains popular for most applications of scientific computing. Other programming languages and computer algebra systems commonly used for the more mathematical aspects of scientific computing applications include GNU Octave, Haskell, Julia, Maple, Mathematica, MATLAB, Python (with third-party SciPy library), Perl (with third-party PDL library), R, SciLab, and TK Solver. The more computationally intensive aspects of scientific computing will often use some variation of C or Fortran and optimized algebra libraries such as BLAS or LAPACK.\n\nComputational science application programs often model real-world changing conditions, such as weather, air flow around a plane, automobile body distortions in a crash, the motion of stars in a galaxy, an explosive device, etc. Such programs might create a 'logical mesh' in computer memory where each item corresponds to an area in space and contains information about that space relevant to the model. For example, in weather models, each item might be a square kilometer; with land elevation, current wind direction, humidity, temperature, pressure, etc. The program would calculate the likely next state based on the current state, in simulated time steps, solving equations that describe how the system operates; and then repeat the process to calculate the next state.\n\nIn the year 2001, the \"International Conference on Computational Science (ICCS)\" was first organised. Since then it has been organised yearly. ICCS is an A-rank conference in CORE classification.\n\nThe international \"Journal of Computational Science\" published its first issue in May 2010. A new initiative was launched in 2012, the \"Journal of Open Research Software.\"\nIn 2015, ReSciencededicated to the replication of computational results has been started on GitHub.\n\nAt some institutions a specialization in scientific computation can be earned as a \"minor\" within another program (which may be at varying levels). However, there are increasingly many bachelor's, master's and doctoral programs in computational science. The joint degree programme master program computational science at the University of Amsterdam and the Vrije Universiteit in computational science was first offered in 2004. In this programme, students:\n\nGeorge Mason University was one of the early pioneers first offering a multidisciplinary doctorate Ph.D program in Computational Sciences and Informatics in 1992 that focused on a number of specialty areas including bioinformatics, computational chemistry, earth systems and global changes, computational mathematics, computational physics, space sciences, and computational statistics\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32492747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32492747", "title": "Cyberbullying", "text": "Cyberbullying\n\nCyberbullying or cyberharassment is a form of bullying or harassment using electronic means. Cyberbullying and Cyberharassment are also known as online bullying. It has become increasingly common, especially among teenagers. Cyberbullying is when someone, typically teens, bully or harass others on social media sites. Harmful bullying behavior can include posting rumors, threats, sexual remarks, a victims' personal information, or pejorative labels (i.e., hate speech). Bullying or harassment can be identified by repeated behavior and an intent to harm. Victims may have lower self-esteem, increased suicidal ideation, and a variety of emotional responses, including being scared, frustrated, angry, and depressed.\n\nAwareness in the United States has risen in the 2010s, due in part to high-profile cases. Several US states and other countries have laws specific to cyberbullying. Some are designed to specifically target teen cyberbullying, while others use laws extending from the scope of physical harassment. In cases of adult cyberharassment, these reports are usually filed beginning with local police.\n\nResearch has demonstrated a number of serious consequences of cyberbullying victimization.\n\nInternet trolling is a common form of bullying over the Internet in an online community (such as in online gaming or social media) in order to elicit a reaction, disruption, or for someone's own personal amusement. Cyberstalking is another form of bullying or harassment that uses electronic communications to stalk a victim; this may pose a credible threat to the victim.\n\nNot all negative interaction online or on social media can be attributed to cyberbullying. Research suggests that there are also interactions online that result in peer pressure, which can have a negative, positive, or neutral impact on those involved.\n\nA frequently used definition of cyberbullying is \"an aggressive, intentional act or behavior that is carried out by a group or an individual, using electronic forms of contact, repeatedly and over time against a victim who cannot easily defend him or herself.\" There are many variations of the definition, such as the National Crime Prevention Council's more specific definition: \"the process of using the Internet, cell phones or other devices to send or post text or images intended to hurt or embarrass another person.\"\n\nCyberbullying is often similar to traditional bullying, with some notable distinctions. Victims of cyberbullying may not know the identity of their bully, or why the bully is targeting them. The harassment can have wide-reaching effects on the victim, as the content used to harass the victim can be spread and shared easily among many people and often remains accessible long after the initial incident.\n\nThe terms \"cyberharassment\" and \"cyberbullying\" are sometimes used synonymously, though some people use the latter to refer specifically to harassment among minors or in a school setting.\n\nCyberstalking is a form of online harassment in which the perpetrator uses electronic communications to stalk a victim. This is considered more dangerous than other forms of cyberbullying because it generally involves a credible threat to the victim's safety. Cyberstalkers may send repeated messages intended to threaten or harass. They may encourage others to do the same, either explicitly or by impersonating their victim and asking others to contact them.\n\nInternet trolls intentionally try to provoke or offend others in order to elicit a reaction. Trolls and cyberbullies do not always have the same goals: while some trolls engage in cyberbullying, others may be engaged in comparatively harmless mischief. A troll may be disruptive either for their own amusement or because they are genuinely a combative person.\n\nManuals to educate the public, teachers and parents summarize, \"Cyberbullying is being cruel to others by sending or posting harmful material using a cell phone or the internet.\" Research, legislation and education in the field are ongoing. Research has identified basic definitions and guidelines to help recognize and cope with what is regarded as abuse of electronic communications.\n\nCyberbullying can be as simple as continuing to send emails or text messages harassing someone who has said they want no further contact with the sender. It may also include public actions such as repeated threats, sexual remarks, pejorative labels (i.e. hate speech) or defamatory false accusations, ganging up on a victim by making the person the subject of ridicule in online forums, hacking into or vandalizing sites about a person, and posting false statements as fact aimed a discrediting or humiliating a targeted person. Cyberbullying could be limited to posting rumors about a person on the internet with the intention of bringing about hatred in others' minds or convincing others to dislike or participate in online denigration of a target. It may go to the extent of personally identifying victims of crime and publishing materials defaming or humiliating them.\n\nCyberbullies may disclose victims' personal data (e.g. real name, home address, or workplace/schools) on websites or forums—called doxing, or may use impersonation, creating fake accounts, comments or sites posing as their target for the purpose of publishing material in their name that defames, discredits or ridicules them. This can leave the cyberbully anonymous, which can make it difficult for them to be caught or punished for their behavior, although not all cyberbullies maintain their anonymity. Text or instant messages and emails between friends can also constitute cyberbullying if what is said is hurtful.\nThe recent rise of smartphones and mobile apps have yielded a more accessible form of cyberbullying. It is expected that cyberbullying via these platforms will occur more often than through more stationary internet platforms. In addition, the combination of cameras and Internet access and the instant availability of these modern smartphone technologies yield specific types of cyberbullying not found in other platforms. It is likely that those cyberbullied via mobile devices will experience a wider range of types cyberbullying than those who are exclusively bullied elsewhere.\n\nSome teens argue that some events categorized as cyberbullying are simply drama. Danah Boyd writes, \"teens regularly used that word [drama] to describe various forms of interpersonal conflict that ranged from insignificant joking around to serious jealousy-driven relational aggression. Whereas adults might have labeled many of these practices as bullying, teens saw them as drama.\"\n\nCyberbullying can take place on social media sites such as Facebook, Myspace, and Twitter. \"By 2008, 93% of young people between the ages of 12 and 17 were online. In fact, youth spend more time with media than any single other activity besides sleeping.\" The last decade has witnessed a surge of cyberbullying, bullying that occurs through the use of electronic communication technologies, such as e-mail, instant messaging, social media, online gaming, or through digital messages or images sent to a cellular phone.\n\nThere are many risks attached to social media sites, and cyberbullying is one of the larger risks. One million children were harassed, threatened or subjected to other forms of cyberbullying on Facebook during the past year, while 90 percent of social-media-using teens who have witnessed online cruelty say they have ignored mean behavior on social media, and 35 percent have done so frequently. 95 percent of social-media-using teens who have witnessed cruel behavior on social networking sites say they have seen others ignoring the mean behavior, and 55 percent have witnessed this frequently.\n\nAccording to a 2013 Pew Research study, eight out of ten teens who use social media now share more information about themselves than they have in the past. This includes their location, images, and contact information. In order to protect children, it is important that personal information such as age, birthday, school/church, phone number, etc. be kept confidential.\n\nTwo studies from 2014 found that 80% of body-shaming tweets are sent by women, while they also accounted for 50% of misogynistic tweets.\n\nCyberbullying can also take place through the use of websites belonging to certain groups to effectively request the targeting of another individual or group. An example of this is the bullying of climate scientists and activists.\n\nOf those who reported having experienced online harassment in a Pew Research poll, 16% said the most recent incident had occurred in an online game. A study from National Sun Yat-sen University observed that children who enjoyed violent video games were significantly more likely to both experience and perpetrate cyberbullying.\n\nAnother study that discusses the direct correlation between exposure to violent video games and cyber bullying also took into account personal factors such as \"duration of playing online games, alcohol consumption in the last 3 months, parents drunk in the last 3 months, anger, hostility, ADHD, and a sense of belonging\" as potential contributing factors of cyberbullying.\n\nGaming was a more common venue for men in which to experience harassment, whereas women's harassment tended to occur via social media. Most respondents considered gaming culture to be equally welcoming to both genders, though 44% thought it favored men. Keza MacDonald writes in \"The Guardian\" that sexism exists in gaming culture, but is not mainstream within it. Sexual harassment in gaming generally involves slurs directed towards women, sex role stereotyping, and overaggressive language. U.S. President Barack Obama made reference to the harassment of women gamers during his remarks in honor of Women's History Month.\n\nCompetitive gaming scenes have been less welcoming of women than has broader gaming culture. In an internet-streamed fighting game competition, one female gamer forfeited a match after the coach of her team, Aris Bakhtanians, stated, \"The sexual harassment is part of the culture. If you remove that from the fighting game community, it's not the fighting game community.\" The comments were widely condemned by gamers, with comments in support of sexual harassment \"drowned out by a vocal majority of people expressing outrage, disappointment and sympathy.\" The incident built momentum for action to counter sexual harassment in gaming.\n\nSome game developers have been subjected to harassment and death threats by players upset by changes to a game or by a developer's online policies. Harassment also occurs in reaction to critics such as Jack Thompson or Anita Sarkeesian, whom some fans see as threats to the medium. Various people have been harassed in connection with the Gamergate controversy. Harassment related to gaming is not of a notably different severity or tenor compared to online harassment motivated by other subcultures or advocacy issues.\n\nSabotage among rival crowdfunding campaigns is a recurring problem for projects related to gaming.\n\nSome instances of swatting in games such as \"Call of Duty\" and \"League of Legends\" have resulted in law enforcement SWAT units called on individuals' homes as a prank. On December 28, 2017, Wichita, Kansas police officers killed Andrew Finch at his Kansas home in a reported swatting prank.\n\nInformation cascades happen when users start passing along information they assume to be true, but cannot know to be true, based on information on what other users are doing. This can be accelerated by search engines' ranking technologies and their tendency to return results relevant to a user's previous interests. This type of information spreading is hard to stop. Information cascades over social media and the Internet may also be harmless, and may contain truthful information.\n\nBullies use Google bombs (a term applicable to any search engine) to increase the prominence of favored posts sorted by the most popular searches, done by linking to those posts from as many other web pages as possible. Examples include the campaign for the neologism \"santorum\" organized by the LGBT lobby. Google bombs can manipulate the Internet's search engines regardless of how authentic the pages are, but there is a way to counteract this type of manipulation as well.\n\nA majority of states have laws that explicitly include electronic forms of communication within stalking or harassment laws. Most law enforcement agencies have cyber-crime units, and Internet stalking is often treated with more seriousness than reports of physical stalking. Help and resources can be searched by state or area.\n\nThe safety of schools is increasingly becoming a focus of state legislative action. There was an increase in cyberbullying enacted legislation between 2006 and 2010. Initiatives and curriclulum requirements also exist in the UK (the Ofsted eSafety guidance) and Australia (Overarching Learning Outcome 13).\n\nIn 2012, a group of teenagers in a design class New Haven, Connecticut developed an application to help fight bullying, \"Back Off Bully\" (BOB). This is an anonymous resource for computer, smart phone or iPad. When someone witnesses or is the victim of bullying, they can immediately report the incident. The app asks questions about time, location and how the bullying is happening, as well as providing positive action and empowerment regarding the incident. The reported information goes to a database, where it may be studied by administrators. Common threads are spotted so others can intervene and break the bully's pattern. \"Back Off Bully\" is being considered as standard operating procedure at schools across Connecticut, while recent studies carried out among 66 high school teachers have concluded that prevention programs have proved ineffective to date.\n\nTeachers can also be cyberbullied by pupils, as well as by parents and other school staff.\n\nThere are laws that only address online harassment of children or focus on child predators, as well as laws that protect adult cyberstalking victims, or victims of any age. Currently, there are 45 cyberstalking (and related) laws on the books. While some sites specialize in laws that protect victims age 18 and under, Working to Halt Online Abuse is a help resource containing a list of current and pending cyberstalking-related United States federal and state laws. It also lists those states that do not yet have laws, and related laws from other countries. The Global Cyber Law Database (GCLD) aims to become the most comprehensive and authoritative source of cyber laws for all countries. Some states such as Florida, California, and Missouri have developed state laws against Cyberbullying. California has the Safe Place to Learn Act and also has a law that states \"the use of an electronic device to cause someone to fear for their life\" can be charged with a misdemeanor which can be punishable to up to one year in prison. In Florida, the \"Jeffrey Johnson Stand Up for All Students Act\" prohibits any type of bullying and does speak on cyberbullying. In Missouri, anyone who violently threatens someone over social media can be convicted with a Class A misdemeanor, but if the victim is seventeen years or younger,they can be convicted with a Class D felony.\n\nChildren report negative online behaviors occurring from the second grade. According to research, boys initiate negative online activity earlier than girls. However, by middle school, girls are more likely to engage in cyberbullying than boys. Whether the bully is male or female, the purpose is to intentionally embarrass, harass, intimidate, or make threats online.\n\nStudies on the psycho-social effects of cyberspace have begun to monitor the effects cyberbullying may have on the victims. Consequences of cyberbullying are multi-faceted, and affect online and offline behavior. Research on adolescents reported that changes in the victims' behavior as a result of cyberbullying could potentially be positive. Victims \"created a cognitive pattern of bullies, which consequently helped them to recognize aggressive people.\"\n\nHowever, the \"Journal of Psychosocial Research on Cyberspace\" abstract reports critical impacts in almost all of the respondents, taking the form of lower self-esteem, loneliness, disillusionment, and distrust of people. The more extreme effects included self-harm. Children have killed each other and committed suicide after cyberbullying incidents. Some cases of digital self-harm have been reported, in which an individual engages in cyberbullying against themselves, or purposefully and knowingly exposes themselves to cyberbullying.\n\nCyberstalking may be an extension of physical stalking, and may have criminal consequences. A target's understanding of why cyberstalking is happening is helpful to remedy and take protective action. Among factors that motivate stalkers are envy, pathological obsession (professional or sexual), unemployment or failure with own job or life, or the desire to intimidate and cause others to feel inferior. The stalker may be delusional and believe he/she \"knows\" the target. The stalker wants to instill fear in a person to justify his/her status, or may believe they can get away with these actions (anonymity).\n\nThe US federal cyberstalking law is designed to prosecute people for using electronic means to repeatedly harass or threaten someone online. There are resources dedicated to helping adult victims deal with cyberbullies legally and effectively. One of the steps recommended is to record everything and contact police.\n\nTeachers can be cyberbullied by pupils, as well as by parents and other school staff.\n\nThe nationwide Australian Covert Bullying Prevalence Survey (Cross et al., 2009) assessed cyberbullying experiences among 7,418 students. Rates of cyberbullying increased with age, with 4.9% of students in Year 4 reporting cyberbullying compared to 7.9% in year nine. Cross et al., (2009) reported that rates of bullying and harassing others were lower, but also increased with age. Only 1.2% of Year 4 students reported cyberbullying others compared to 5.6% of Year 9 students.\n\nIn mainland China, cyberbullying has yet to receive adequate scholarly attention. A study investigating the risk factors of cyberbullying sampled 1438 high school students from central China. Data showed that 34.84% had participated in bullying and 56.88% had been bullied online.\n\nA study on cyberbullying in Hong Kong chose 48 out of 7654 students from elementary school to high school who were classified as potential aggressors related to cyberbullying. 31 out of 48 students declared they barely participated in cyber-attacks. It is common among high school students (28 out of 36 students) to participate in social media platforms. 58% admitted to changing a nickname for others, 56.3% to humiliation, 54.2% to making fun of someone, and 54.2% to spreading rumors. The Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups interviewed 1820 teenagers, 17.5% of whom indicated having experienced cyberbullying. This included insults, abuse, and the publishing of personal private pictures on social media without permission.\n\nIn a study published in 2011, across 25 EU member states studied, an average 6% of children (9–16 years old) had been bullied and only 3% of them confessed to having been a bully. However, in an earlier publication by Hasenbrink et al. (2009), reporting on the results from a meta analysis from European Union countries, the authors estimated (via median results) that approximately 18% of European young people had been \"bullied/harassed/stalked\" via the internet and mobile phones. Cyberharassment rates for young people across the EU member states ranged from 10% to 52%. \n\nSourander et al. (2010) conducted a population-based cross-sectional study that took place in Finland. The authors of this study took the self-reports of 2215 Finish adolescents between the ages of 13 and 16 about cyberbullying and cybervictimization during the previous six months. It was found that, amongst the total sample, 4.8% were victims only, 7.4% were cyberbullies only, and 5.4% were cyberbully-victims.\n\nThe authors of this study were able to conclude that cyberbullying as well as cybervictimization is associated not only with psychiatric issues, but psychosomatic issues. Many adolescents in the study reported headaches or difficulty sleeping. The authors believe that their results indicate a greater need for new ideas on how to prevent cyberbullying and what to do when it occurs. It is clearly a worldwide problem that needs to be taken seriously.\n\nThe Health Behaviour in School-aged Children (HBSC) pilot survey was carried out in eight post-primary schools across Ireland, including 318 students aged 15–18. 59% were boys and 41% were girls. Participation in this survey was voluntary for students, and consent had to be obtained from parents, students and the school itself. This survey was anonymous and confidential, and took 40 minutes to complete. It asked questions on traditional forms of bullying as well as cyberbullying, risk behaviours and self-reported health and life satisfaction.\n\n66% of the students said that they had never been bullied. 14% had been victims of traditional forms of bullying. 10% had been victims of cyberbullying, and the remaining 10% had been victims of both traditional forms of bullying and cyberbullying. Boys mostly said they were victims of traditional forms of bullying, and girls mostly were victims of both traditional forms of bullying and cyberbullying. 20% of the students in this survey said that they had been cyberbullied, showing that cyberbullying is on the rise.\n\nArrow DIT claims that 23 percent of 9–16 year olds in Ireland have been bullied online or offline, compared to 19 percent in Europe. Although online bullying in Ireland stands at 4% according to Arrow DIT, this lower than the European average which stands at 6%, and half that of the UK where 8% reported being cyberbullied. Traditional forms of bullying in Ireland occur more often than in Europe.\n\nA 2018 study by Dublin City University (DCU)'s National Anti-Bullying Research and Resource Centre (ABC) found that almost 10% of post-primary teachers were victims of cyberbullying, and 15% knew of a colleague who had experienced it in the previous 12 months. 59% of the bullying was by pupils, mainly on social media, with the rest perpetrated by parents and other school staff. Various effects on bullied teachers included increased stress and anxiety, \"negative impacts on their working environment, and a reluctance to report the issue and seek help from management\".\n\nAccording to recent research, in Japan, 17 percent (compared with a 25-country average of 37 percent) of youth between the ages of 8 and 17 have been victims of online bullying. The number shows that online bullying is a serious concern in Japan. Teenagers who spend more than 10 hours a week on the Internet are more likely to become the targets of online bullying. Only 28 percent of the survey participants understood what cyberbullying is. However, they do know the severity of the issue; 63 percent of the surveyed students worried about being targeted as victims of cyberbullying.\n\nSince teenagers find themselves congregating socially on the internet via social media, they become easy targets for cyberbullying. Cyberbullying may occur via email, text, chat rooms, and social media websites. Some cyberbullies set up websites or blogs to post the target's images, publicize their personal information, gossip about the target, express why they hate the target, request people to agree with the bully's view, and send links to the target to make sure they are watching the activity.\n\nMuch cyberbullying is an act of relational aggression, which involves alienating the victim from peers through gossip or ostracism. This kind of attack can be easily launched via texting or other online activities. One 19-year-old Japanese student was targeted by classmates who posted his photo online, insulted him constantly, and asked him to die. Because of the constant harassment, he did attempt suicide twice. Even when he quit school, the attacks did not stop.\n\nCyberbullying can cause serious psychological impact to the victims. They often feel anxious, nervous, tired, and depressed. Other examples of negative psychological trauma include losing confidence as a result being socially isolated from their schoolmates or friends. Psychological problems can also show up in the form of headaches, skin problems, abdominal pain, sleep problems, bed-wetting, and crying. It may also lead victims to commit suicide to end the bullying.\n\nA survey by the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire in 2000 found that 6% of the young people in the survey had experienced some form of harassment, including threats and negative rumors, and 2% had suffered distressing harassment.\n\nThe 2004 I-Safe.org survey of 1,500 students between grades 4 and 8 found:\n\nThe Youth Internet Safety Survey-2, conducted by the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire in 2005, found that 9% of the young people in the survey had experienced some form of harassment. The survey was a nationally representative telephone survey of 1,500 youth 10–17 years old. One-third reported feeling distressed by the incident, with distress being more likely for younger respondents and those who were the victims of aggressive harassment (including being telephoned, sent gifts, or visited at home by the harasser). Compared to youth not harassed online, victims are more likely to have social problems. On the other hand, youth who harass others are more likely to have problems with rule breaking and aggression.\n\nHinduja and Patchin completed a study in the summer of 2005 of approximately 1,500 Internet-using adolescents and found that over one-third of youth reported being victimized online, and over 16% of respondents admitted to cyberbullying others. While most of the instances of cyberbullying involved relatively minor behavior (41% were disrespected, 19% were called names), over 12% were physically threatened and about 5% were scared for their safety. Notably, fewer than 15% of victims told an adult about the incident. Additional research by Hinduja and Patchin in 2007 found that youth who report being victims of cyberbullying also experience stress or strain that is related to offline problem behaviors such as running away from home, cheating on a test, skipping school, or using alcohol or marijuana. The authors acknowledge that both of these studies provide only preliminary information about the nature and consequences of online bullying, due to the methodological challenges associated with an online survey.\n\nAccording to a 2005 survey by the National Children's Home charity and Tesco Mobile, of 770 youth between the ages of 11 and 19, 20% of respondents revealed that they had been bullied via electronic means. Almost three-quarters (73%) stated that they knew the bully, while 26% stated that the offender was a stranger. 10% of responders indicated that another person had taken a picture and/or video of them via a cellular phone camera, consequently making them feel uncomfortable, embarrassed, or threatened. Many youths are not comfortable telling an authority figure about their cyberbullying victimization for fear their access to technology will be taken from them; while 24% and 14% told a parent or teacher respectively, 28% did not tell anyone, and 41% told a friend.\n\nAccording to the 2006 \"Harris Interactive Cyberbullying Research Report\", commissioned by the National Crime Prevention Council, cyberbullying is a problem that \"affects almost half of all American teens\".\n\nStudies published in 2007 in the \"Journal of Adolescent Health\" indicated young people reporting being victims of electronic aggression in a range of 9% to 35%.\n\nIn 2007, Debbie Heimowitz, a Stanford University master's student, created \"Adina's Deck\", a film based on Stanford-accredited research. She worked in focus groups for ten weeks in three schools to learn about the problem of cyberbullying in northern California. The findings determined that over 60% of students had been cyberbullied and were victims of cyberbullying. The film is now being used in classrooms nationwide as it was designed around learning goals pertaining to problems that students had understanding the topic. The middle school of Megan Meier is reportedly using the film as a solution to the crisis in their town.\n\nIn 2008, researchers Sameer Hinduja (Florida Atlantic University) and Justin Patchin (University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire) published a book on cyberbullying that summarized the current state of cyberbullying research (\"Bullying Beyond the Schoolyard: Preventing and Responding to Cyberbullying\"). Their research documented that cyberbullying instances had been increasing over the preceding several years. They also reported findings from a then-recent study of cyberbullying. In a random sample of approximately 2000 middle-school students from a large school district in the southern United States, about 10% of respondents reported being cyberbullied in the previous 30 days while over 17% reported having been cyberbullied at least once in their lifetime. While these rates are slightly lower than some of the findings from their previous research, Hinduja and Patchin pointed out that the earlier studies were predominantly conducted among older adolescents and Internet samples. That is, older youth use the Internet more frequently and are more likely to experience cybe-bullying than younger children.\n\nAccording to the 2011 National Crime Victimization Survey, conducted by the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics, School Crime Supplement (SCS), 9% of students of ages 12–18 admitted to having experienced cyberbullying during that school year (with a coefficient of variation between 30% and 50%).\n\nIn the Youth Risk Behavior Survey 2013, the Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published results of its survey as part of the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS) in June 2014, indicating the percentage of school children being bullied through e-mail, chat rooms, instant messaging, websites, or texting (\"electronically bullied\") during the course of 2013.\n\nIn 2014, Mehari, Farrell, and Le published a study that focused on the literature on cyberbullying among adolescents. They found that researchers have generally assumed that cyberbullying is distinct from aggression perpetrated in person. Mehari et al. suggest that the media through which aggression is perpetrated may be best conceptualized as a new classification of aggression, rather than considering cyberbullying as a distinct counterpart to existing forms of aggression. They suggest that future research on cyberbullying should be considered within the context of theoretical and empirical knowledge of aggression in adolescence.\n\nMary Howlett-Brandon's doctoral dissertation analyzed the National Crime Victimization Survey: Student Crime Supplement, 2009, to focus on the cyberbullying victimization of Black and White students in specific conditions.\n\nWalletHub's 2015's \"Best & Worst States at Controlling Bullying\" report measured the relative levels of bullying in 42 states. According to the report, North Dakota, Illinois, Louisiana, Rhode Island, and Washington D.C. have the most attempted suicides by high school students. The five states with highest percentage of students being bullied on campus are Missouri, Michigan, Idaho, North Dakota, and Montana.\n\nCyberbullying on social media has usually been student-to-student, but recently, students have been cyberbullying their teachers. High school students in Colorado created a Twitter site that bullies teachers. This ranges from obscenities to false accusations of inappropriate actions with students.\n\nResearch conducted to try and determine differences in cyber bullying patterns comparing male to female and ages of each are relatively inconclusive. There are some factors that lean towards males being more involved in cyber bullying behaviors due to males tending to have more aggressive behaviors than females. This is not proven but speculated based on literature reviews of research indicating that significant data is self-reported. Comparatively, the review of articles indicates that age differences have some indicators of cyber bullying; increasing age indicates increasing bullying behaviors. Gender differences have mixed results but one finding indicated that younger females(10 or 11) and older males(13+) tend to engage in cyber bullying behaviors.\n\nLegislation geared at penalizing cyberbullying has been introduced in a number of U.S. states including New York, Missouri, Rhode Island and Maryland. At least 45 states have passed laws against digital harassment. Dardenne Prairie of Springfield, Missouri, passed a city ordinance making online harassment a misdemeanor. The city of St. Charles, Missouri passed a similar ordinance. Missouri is among the states where lawmakers are pursuing state legislation, with task forces expected to have cyberbullying laws drafted and implemented. In June 2008, Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-Calif.) and Rep. Kenny Hulshof (R-Mo.) proposed a federal law that would criminalize acts of cyberbullying.\n\nLawmakers are seeking to address cyberbullying with new legislation because there is currently no specific law on the books that deals with it. A fairly new federal cyberstalking law might address such acts, according to Parry Aftab, but no one has been prosecuted under it yet. The proposed federal law would make it illegal to use electronic means to \"coerce, intimidate, harass or cause other substantial emotional distress.\"\n\nIn August 2008, the California state legislature passed one of the first laws in the country to deal directly with cyberbullying. Assembly Bill 86 2008 gives school administrators the authority to discipline students for bullying, offline or online. This law took effect on January 1, 2009.\n\nA law in New York's Albany County that criminalized cyberbullying was struck down as unconstitutional by the New York Court of Appeals in \"People v. Marquan M.\"\n\nA recent ruling first seen in the UK determined that it is possible for an Internet service provider (ISP) to be liable for the content of the sites it hosts, setting a precedent that any ISP should treat a notice of complaint seriously and investigate it immediately.\n\nWhile some states have laws that require schools to mediate cyberbullying conflicts, several states have been sued on First Amendment grounds for doing so. By examining the decisions of three such lawsuits heard in lower courts, Alvin J. Primack and Kevin A. Johnson argued that current First Amendment doctrine, particularly the case of \"Morse v. Frederick\" (2007), may offer interpretive resources for justifying administrative reach to some online digital speech. They concluded, \"[w]ithout clearer standards, school administrators are likely to feel constrained and err on the side of inaction.\"\n\nSince the 1990s, the United Kingdom and other European countries have been working to solve workplace bullying since there is no legislation regulating cyberbullying. The pervasive nature of technology has made the act of bullying online much easier. A 24-hour internet connection gives bullies a neverending opportunity to find and bully victims. Employers in the European Union have more legal responsibility to their employees than do those in other countries. Since employers do not have the ability to fire or hire an employee at will like in the United States, employers in Europe are held to a high standard in how their employees are treated.\n\nIn 2007, the European Union developed the Framework Agreement on Harassment and Violence at Work, a law that prevents bullying occurring in the workplace and holds employers accountable for providing fair working conditions. The law defines the responsibilities of an employer such as protecting his or her employees from bullies in a work environment and the psychological pain a victim faces from bullies during business hours. Lawyers pursuing cyberbullying cases use the Ordinance on Victimization at Work law, since there are not any laws specifically condemning cyberbullying.\n\nIn 1993, Sweden was the first European Union country to have a law against cyberbullying. The Ordinance on Victimization at Work protected victims from \"recurrent reprehensible or distinctly negative actions which are directed which are directed against individual employees in an offensive manner and can result in those employees being placed outside the workplace community\".\n\nIn 2002, France passed the Social Modernization Law, which added consequences to the French Labor Code for cyberbullying such as holding employers accountable for their involvement in harassment. The legislation defines \"moral harassment\" as \"repeated acts leading to a\ndeterioration of the working conditions and that are likely to harm the dignity, the physical or\npsychological heath of the victim or his professional career.\"\n\nThe United Kingdom does not have anti-bullying legislation. However, it does have the Protection From Harassment Act, an anti-stalking law. U.K. courts have used this legislation in bullying cases.\nThe United States and some other countries have more extensive legislation on cyberbullying than the European Union. Cyberbullying incidents on social media are widespread and have increased drastically in number. However, the process of getting a claim against a bully is not an easy one because of the victim's need to provide sufficient evidence to prove the existence of bullying.\n\nAs of mid-2015, countries in the European Union like the United Kingdom are in the process of creating laws specially related to cyberbullying. Since the process takes time, the government is supporting school programs to promote internet safety with the help of teachers and parents. This will allow the government to take the time it needs to create the cyberbullying laws while helping safeguard students from cyberbullying as much as possible.\n\nResearchers suggest that programs be put in place for prevention of cyberbullying. These programs would be incorporated into school curricula and would include online safety and instruction on how to use the Internet properly. This could teach the victim proper methods of potentially avoiding the cyberbully, such as blocking messages or increasing the security of their computer.\n\nEven in a perfect world, no crime can be stopped fully. That is why it is suggested that within this prevention method, effective coping strategies should be introduced and adopted. As with any crime, people learn to cope with what has happened. People can adopt coping strategies to combat future cyberbullying. Coping strategies may include social support groups composed of victims of cyberbullying, which could allow students to share their stories, and remove the feeling of being alone.\n\nTeachers should be involved in all prevention educational models, as they are essentially the \"police\" of the classroom. Most cyberbullying often goes unreported as the victim feels nothing can be done to help in their current situation. However, if given the proper tools with preventative measures and more power in the classroom, teachers can be of assistance. If the parent, teacher, and victim can work together, solutions may be found.\n\nThere have been many legislative attempts to facilitate the control of bullying and cyberbullying. Some existing legislation is incorrectly thought to be tied to bullying and cyberbullying (including terms such as \"libel\" and \"slander\"). The problem is that the existing legislation does not directly apply to bullying, nor define it as its own criminal behavior. Anti-cyberbullying advocates have even expressed concern about the broad scope of some of the bills attempted to be passed.\n\nIn the United States, attempts have been made to pass legislation against cyberbullying. Few states attempted to pass broad sanctions in an effort to prohibit cyberbullying. Problems include how to define cyberbullying and cyberstalking, and, if charges are pressed, whether this violates the bully's freedom of speech. B. Walther said that \"Illinois is the only state to criminalize 'electronic communication(s) sent for the purpose of harassing another person' when the activity takes place outside a public school setting.\" This was criticized for infringement on freedom of speech.\n\n'Cyberbullying' is the use of technology to bully a person, or threatening an individual online. Cyberbullying has become more common nowadays because of all the technology that children have access to. The most common apps that teenagers use to cyberbully are Instagram, Twitter, and Snapchat. Cyberbullying has become harder to stop because parents and teachers are unaware of when and where it is happening. Online bullying has become a bigger problem and 33% of all youth has been a victim of cyberbullying. Teens will say awful things to one another online and what they do not realize is that once it is said and published online it will not go away. Home used to be a safe place for teens but now a child is still within reach of becoming a victim of cyberbullying- whether it is through YouTube, Ask.fm, or a text message.\n\nPreventing a child from being cyberbullied is hard, but now they are working to form laws to help stop the issue from getting worse than it already is. They have created movies such as 'Cyberbully' by Charles Biname and 'The Duff' by Ari Sandel for teenagers to watch and see how cyberbullying can affect an individual. Parents can become more involved in their children's lives when it comes to social media to help prevent their child from being bullied. Children that are victims of this problem feel they can not go to an adult for help because they may feel embarrassed by the situation. Bullying online will not only hurt the teenager emotionally but there is also a risk of the child hurting themselves physically as well. Suicide has become the 3rd leading cause of death among persons from 10 to 24 years of age and online bullying takes a big part in that.\n\nBeing able to tell if a child is being hurt from this issue can be tough, but there are certain things that a child will do that should give a red flag that they are being bullied. Such as if they post a video or a picture on Instagram with comments like \"Am I ugly? Someone said I was but is it true?\" or \"Am I cute?\". A cyberbully could have said nasty words to that child and the victim could be looking for compliments. If the victim is always online wondering when the bully will strike next that could also be a sign. Being an active parent in their children's lives will make a difference on whether your child is experiencing online bullying or not. Also bringing police involved in the case will be a problem solver too.\n\nResearch has demonstrated a number of serious consequences of cyberbullying victimization. Victims may have lower self-esteem, increased suicidal ideation, and a variety of emotional responses, including being scared, frustrated, angry, and depressed. Cyberbullying may be more harmful than traditional bullying, because there is no escaping it. One of the most damaging effects is that a victim begins to avoid friends and activities, which is often the very intention of the bully.\n\nCyberbullying campaigns are sometimes so damaging that victims have committed suicide. There are at least four examples in the United States in which cyberbullying has been linked to the suicide of a teenager. The suicide of Megan Meier is a recent example that led to the conviction of the adult perpetrator of the attacks. Holly Grogan committed suicide by jumping off a 30-foot bridge near Gloucester in the UK. It was reported that a number of her schoolmates had posted a number of hateful messages on her Facebook page.\n\nAccording to Lucie Russell, director of campaigns, policy and participation at youth mental health charity Young Minds, young people who suffer from mental disorders are vulnerable to cyberbullying as they are sometimes unable to shrug it off:\n\nWhen someone says nasty things healthy people can filter that out, they're able to put a block between that and their self-esteem. But mentally unwell people don't have the strength and the self-esteem to do that, to separate it, and so it gets compiled with everything else. To them, it becomes the absolute truth – there's no filter, there's no block. That person will take that on, take it as fact.\n\nSocial media has allowed bullies to disconnect from the impact they may be having on others.\n\nAccording to the Cyberbullying Research Center, \"there have been several high‐profile cases involving teenagers taking their own lives in part because of being harassed and mistreated over the Internet, a phenomenon we have termed cyberbullicide – suicide indirectly or directly influenced by experiences with online aggression.\"\n\nCyberbullying is an intense form of psychological abuse, whose victims are more than twice as likely to suffer from mental disorders compared to traditional bullying.\n\nThe reluctance youth have in telling an authority figure about instances of cyberbullying has led to fatal outcomes. At least three children between the ages of 12 and 13 have committed suicide due to depression brought on by cyberbullying, according to reports by \"USA Today\" and the \"Baltimore Examiner\". These include the suicide of Ryan Halligan and the suicide of Megan Meier, the latter of which resulted in \"United States v. Lori Drew\". Teen suicides tied to cyberbullying have recently become more prevalent. Rebecca Ann Sedwick committed suicide after being terrorized through mobile applications such as Ask.fm, Kik Messenger and Voxer.\n\nThe effects of cyberbullying vary, but research illustrates that cyberbullying adversely affects youth to a higher degree than adolescents and adults. Youth are more likely to suffer since they are still growing mentally and physically. Jennifer N. Caudle, a certified family physician, says, \"Kids that are bullied are likely to experience anxiety, depression, loneliness, unhappiness and poor sleep\".\n\nMost of the time cyberbullying goes unnoticed; the younger generation hides their bullying from anyone that can help to prevent the bullying from occurring and from getting worse. Between 20% and 40% of adolescents are victims of cyberbullying worldwide. The youth slowly change their behaviors and actions so they become more withdrawn and quiet, but this may go unnoticed since the change is subtle. Metin Deniz believes cyberbullying will \"become a serious problem in the future with an increase in the Internet and mobile phone usage among young people\".\n\nIf preventive actions are not taken against cyberbullying, younger children in addition to teenagers will feel more lonely and depressed along with having significant changes in their eating and sleeping patterns as well as loss of interest in their normal activities. These changes will affect their growth and development into adulthood. Younger children and teenagers are 76.2% less likely to display suicidal behaviors and thoughts, but are still at risk depending on other factors such as mental health status, home care, and relationships with others. The risk of suicide increases by 35% to 45% when victims do not have any support from anyone in their life, and cyberbullying amplifies the situation.\n\nYoung people seem particularly vulnerable to the effects of cyberbullying through anonymous social media, perhaps because adolescents are attracted to these platforms as a means of seeking validation from their peers. Abuse on these platforms, such as ASKfm, Yik Yak and Sarahah, can be particularly keenly felt by young people, leading to issues of loss of confidence. There have been a number of suicides related to bullying on these platforms in the US and Britain.\n\nThe Cybersmile Foundation is a cyberbullying charity committed to tackling all forms of online bullying, abuse, and hate campaigns. It was founded in 2010 in response to the increasing number of cyberbullying related incidents of depression, eating disorders, social isolation, self-harm and suicides devastating lives around the world. Cybersmile provides support to victims and their friends and families through social media interaction, email and helpline support. They also run an annual event, Stop Cyberbullying Day, to draw attention to the issue.\n\nMultiple non-profit organizations fight cyberbullying and cyberstalking. They advise victims, provide awareness campaigns, and report offenses to the police. These NGOs include the \"Protégeles\", \"PantallasAmigas\", \"Foundation Alia2\", the non-profit initiative \"Actúa Contra el Ciberacoso\", the National Communications Technology Institute (INTECO), the Agency of Internet quality, the \"Agencia Española de Protección de Datos\", the \"Oficina de Seguridad del Internauta\", the Spanish Internet users' Association, the Internauts' Association, and the Spanish Association of Mothers and Parents Internauts. The government of Castile and León has also created a \"Plan de Prevención del Ciberacoso y Promoción de la Navegación Segura en Centro Escolares\", and the government of the Canary Islands has created a portal on the phenomenon called \"Viveinternet\".\n\nIn March 2007, the Advertising Council in the United States, in partnership with the National Crime Prevention Council, U.S. Department of Justice, and Crime Prevention Coalition of America, joined to announce the launch of a new public service advertising campaign designed to educate preteens and teens about how they can play a role in ending cyberbullying.\n\nAs of 2008, the Boy Scouts of America's 2008 edition of \"The Boy Scout Handbook\" addresses how to deal with online bullying. A new First Class rank requirements adds: \"Describe the three things you should avoid doing related to use of the Internet. Describe a cyberbully and how you should respond to one.\"\n\nIn 2008, KTTV Fox 11 News in Los Angeles put out a report about organized cyberbullying on sites like Stickam by people who call themselves \"/b/rothas\". The site had put out a report on July 26, 2007, about a subject that partly featured cyberbullying, titled \"Hackers on Steroids\".\n\nOn June 2, 2008, parents, teens, teachers, and Internet executives came together at Wired Safety's International Stop Cyberbullying Conference, a two-day gathering in White Plains, New York and New York City. Executives from Facebook, Verizon, MySpace, Microsoft, and many others talked with hundreds about how to better protect themselves and their personal reputations, children and businesses from online harassment. Sponsors of the conference included McAfee, AOL, Disney, Procter & Gamble, Girl Scouts of the USA, WiredTrust, Children's Safety Research and Innovation Centre, and KidZui.com. Cyberharassment versus cyberbullying was a forefront topic, where age makes a difference; abusive internet behavior by adults with the repeated clear intent to harm, ridicule or damage a person or business was classified as stalking harassment, versus bullying by teens and young adults.\n\nAn organized movement to make revenge porn illegal began in August 2012: End Revenge Porn. Currently revenge porn is only illegal in two states, but the demand for its criminalization is on the rise as digital technology has increased in the past few generations. The organization seeks to provide support for victims, educate the public, and gain activist support to bring new legislation before the United States Government.\n\nIn 2006, PACER.org created a week-long event that was held once a year in October. Today, the campaign is a month-long event and is now known as the National Bullying Prevention Awareness Month.\n\nOriginating in Canada, Anti-Bullying Day is a day of celebration for those who choose to participate wearing a symbol of colours (pink, blue or purple) as a stance against bullying. A British Columbia teacher founded the Stop A Bully movement, which uses pink wristbands to represent the wearer's stance to stop bullying.\n\nPink Shirt Day was inspired by David Shepherd and Travis Price. Their high school friends organized a protest in sympathy for a Grade 9 boy who was bullied for wearing a pink shirt. Their stance from wearing pink has been a huge inspiration in the Great Vancouver Mainland. \"We know that victims of bullying, witnesses of bullying and bullies themselves all experience the very real and long term negative impacts of bullying regardless of its forms – physical, verbal, written, or on-line (cyberbullying)\".\n\nERASE (Expect Respect and A Safe Education) is an initiative started by the province of British Columbia to foster safe schools and prevent bullying. It builds on already-effective programs set up by the provincial government to ensure consistent policies and practices regarding the prevention of bullying.\n\nA number of organizations are in coalition to provide awareness, protection and recourse for this escalating problem. Some aim to inform and provide measures to avoid as well as effectively terminate cyberbullying and cyberharassment. Anti-bullying charity Act Against Bullying launched the CyberKind campaign in August 2009 to promote positive internet usage.\n\nIn 2007, YouTube introduced the first Anti-Bullying Channel for youth (BeatBullying), using the assistance of celebrities to tackle the problem.\n\nIn March 2010, a 17-year-old girl named Alexis Skye Pilkington was found dead in her room by her parents. Her parents claimed that after repeated cyberbullying, she was driven to suicide. Shortly after her death, attacks resumed. Members of eBaums World began to troll teens' memorial pages on Facebook, with the comments including expressions of pleasure over the death, with pictures of what seemed to be a banana as their profile pictures. Family and friends of the deceased teen responded by creating Facebook groups denouncing cyberbullying and trolling, with logos of bananas behind a red circle with a diagonal line through it.\n\nIn response and partnership to the 2011 film \"Bully\", a grassroots effort to stop cyberbullying called the Bully Project was created. Their goal is to start \"a national movement to stop bullying that is transforming children's lives and changing a culture of bullying into one of empathy and action.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "268988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268988", "title": "Donner Party", "text": "Donner Party\n\nThe Donner Party, or Donner–Reed Party, was a group of American pioneers that set out for California in a wagon train in May 1846. Departing from Independence, Missouri, they were delayed by a series of mishaps and mistakes, and spent the winter of 1846–47 snowbound in the Sierra Nevada. Some of the pioneers resorted to cannibalism to survive.\n\nThe journey west usually took between four and six months, but the Donner Party was slowed by following a new route called Hastings Cutoff, which crossed Utah's Wasatch Mountains and Great Salt Lake Desert. The rugged terrain and difficulties encountered while traveling along the Humboldt River in present-day Nevada resulted in the loss of many cattle and wagons, and caused splits within the group.\n\nBy the beginning of November 1846, the settlers had reached the Sierra Nevada where they became trapped by an early, heavy snowfall near Truckee (now Donner) Lake, high in the mountains. Their food supplies ran extremely low and, in mid-December, some of the group set out on foot to obtain help. Rescuers from California attempted to reach the settlers, but the first relief party did not arrive until the middle of February 1847, almost four months after the wagon train had become trapped. Of the 87 members of the party, 48 survived to reach California, many of them having eaten the dead for survival.\n\nHistorians have described the episode as one of the most bizarre and spectacular tragedies in Californian history and western-US migration.\n\nDuring the 1840s, the United States saw a dramatic increase in pioneers, people who left their homes in the east to settle in the Oregon Territory and California. Some, such as Patrick Breen, saw California as a place where they would be free to live in a fully Catholic culture, but many were inspired by the idea of Manifest Destiny, a philosophy which asserted that the land between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans belonged to European Americans and they should settle it. Most wagon trains followed the Oregon Trail route from Independence, Missouri to the Continental Divide, traveling at about a day on a journey that usually took between four and six months. The trail generally followed rivers to South Pass, a mountain pass in Wyoming, which was relatively easy for wagons to negotiate. From there, wagon trains had a choice of routes to their destination.\n\nLansford W. Hastings, an early immigrant from Ohio to the West, went to California in 1842 and saw the promise of the undeveloped country. To encourage settlers, he published \"The Emigrants' Guide to Oregon and California\". He described a direct route across the Great Basin which would bring immigrants through the Wasatch Mountains and across the Great Salt Lake Desert. Hastings had not traveled any part of his proposed shortcut until early 1846 on a trip from California to Fort Bridger. The fort was a scant supply station run by Jim Bridger and his partner Pierre Louis Vasquez in Blacks Fork, Wyoming. Hastings stayed at the fort to persuade travelers to turn south on his route. As of 1846, Hastings was the second of two men documented to have crossed the southern part of the Great Salt Lake Desert, but neither had been accompanied by wagons.\n\nThe most difficult part of the journey to California was the last across the Sierra Nevada. This mountain range contains 500 distinct peaks over high, and because of their height and proximity to the Pacific Ocean they receive more snow than most other ranges in North America. The eastern side of the range is also extremely steep. After leaving Missouri to cross the vast wilderness to Oregon or California, timing was crucial to ensure that wagon trains would not be bogged down by mud created by spring rains, nor by massive snowdrifts in the mountains from September onwards, and also that their horses and oxen would have enough spring grass to eat.\n\nIn the spring of 1846, almost 500 wagons headed west from Independence. At the rear of the train, a group of nine wagons containing 32 members of the Reed and Donner families and their employees left on May 12. George Donner, born in North Carolina, had gradually moved west to Kentucky, Indiana, and Illinois, with a one-year sojourn in Texas. In early 1846, he was about 60 years old and living near Springfield, Illinois. With him were his 44-year-old wife Tamsen and their three daughters Frances (6), Georgia (4), and Eliza (3), and George's daughters from a previous marriage: Elitha (14) and Leanna (12). George's younger brother Jacob (56) also joined the party with his wife Elizabeth (45), teenaged stepsons Solomon Hook (14) and William Hook (12), and five children: George (9), Mary (7), Isaac (6), Lewis (4), and Samuel (1). Also traveling with the Donner brothers were teamsters Hiram O. Miller (29), Samuel Shoemaker (25), Noah James (16), Charles Burger (30), John Denton (28), and Augustus Spitzer (30).\nJames F. Reed, a 45-year-old native of present-day Northern Ireland, had settled in Illinois in 1831. He was accompanied by his wife Margret (32), step-daughter Virginia (13), daughter Martha Jane \"Patty\" (8), sons James and Thomas (5 and 3), and Sarah Keyes, Margret Reed's 70-year-old mother, who was in the advanced stages of consumption and died on May 28; she was buried by the side of the trail. In addition to leaving financial worries behind, Reed hoped that California's climate would help Margret, who had long suffered from ill health. The Reeds hired three men to drive the ox teams: Milford (Milt) Elliot (28), James Smith (25), and Walter Herron (25). Baylis Williams (24) went along as handyman and his sister Eliza (25) as the family's cook.\n\nWithin a week of leaving Independence, the Reeds and Donners joined up with a group of 50 wagons nominally led by William H. Russell. By June 16, the company had traveled , with to go before Fort Laramie, Wyoming. They had been delayed by rain and a rising river, but Tamsen Donner wrote to a friend in Springfield, \"indeed, if I do not experience something far worse than I have yet done, I shall say the trouble is all in getting started.\" Young Virginia Reed recalled years later that, during the first part of the trip, she was \"perfectly happy.\"\n\nSeveral other families joined the wagon train along the way. Levinah Murphy (37), a widow from Tennessee, headed a family of thirteen. Her five youngest children were John Landrum (16), Meriam (\"Mary\", 14), Lemuel (12), William (10), and Simon (8). Levinah's two married daughters and their families also came along: Sarah Murphy Foster (19), her husband William M. (30) and son Jeremiah George (1); Harriet Murphy Pike (18), her husband William M. (32) and their daughters Naomi (3) and Catherine (1). William Eddy (28), a carriage maker from Illinois, brought his wife Eleanor (25) and their two children James (3) and Margaret (1). The Breen family consisted of Patrick Breen (51), a farmer from Iowa, his wife Margaret (\"Peggy\", 40) and seven children: John (14), Edward (13), Patrick, Jr. (9), Simon (8), James (5), Peter (3), and 11-month-old Isabelle. Their neighbor traveled with them, 40-year-old bachelor Patrick Dolan. German immigrant Lewis Keseberg (32) joined with his wife Elisabeth Philippine (22) and daughter Ada (2); son Lewis Jr. was born on the trail. Two young single men named Spitzer and Reinhardt traveled with another German couple, the Wolfingers, who also had hired driver \"Dutch Charley\" Burger. An older man named Hardkoop rode with them. Luke Halloran, a young man who seemed to get sicker with tuberculosis every day, was passed from family to family as none could spare the time or resources to care for him.\n\nTo promote his new route, Lansford W. Hastings sent riders to deliver letters to traveling emigrants. On July 12, the Reeds and Donners were given one of these letters. Hastings warned the emigrants that they could expect opposition from the Mexican authorities in California, and advised them therefore to band together in large groups. He also claimed to have \"worked out a new and better road to California\", and said that he would be waiting at Fort Bridger to guide the emigrants along the new cutoff.\n\nJesse Quinn Thornton traveled part of the way with Donner and Reed, and in his book \"From Oregon and California in 1848\" declared Hastings the \"Baron Munchausen of travelers in these countries\". Tamsen Donner, according to Thornton, was \"gloomy, sad, and dispirited\" at the thought of turning off the main trail on the advice of Hastings, whom she considered \"a selfish adventurer\".\n\nOn July 20 at the Little Sandy River, most of the wagon train opted to follow the established trail via Fort Hall. A smaller group opted to head for Fort Bridger and needed a leader. Most of the younger males in the group were European immigrants and not considered to be ideal leaders. James F. Reed had been living in the U.S. for a considerable time, was older, and had military experience, but his autocratic attitude had rubbed many in the party the wrong way, and they saw him as aristocratic, imperious, and ostentatious. By comparison, the mature, experienced, American-born Donner's peaceful and charitable nature made him the group's first choice. The members of the party were comfortably well off by contemporaneous standards. Although they are called pioneers, all but a few lacked specific skills and experience for traveling through mountains and arid land, and had little knowledge about how to interact with Native Americans.\n\nJournalist Edwin Bryant reached Blacks Fork a week ahead of the Donner Party. He saw the first part of the trail, and was concerned that it would be difficult for the wagons in the Donner group, especially with so many women and children. He returned to Blacks Fork to leave letters warning several members of the group not to take the shortcut. By the time the Donner Party reached Blacks Fork on July 27, Hastings had already left, leading the forty wagons of the Harlan-Young group. Jim Bridger's trading post would fare substantially better if people used the Hastings Cutoff, and he told the party that the shortcut was a smooth trip, devoid of rugged country and hostile Native Americans, and would therefore shorten their journey by . Water would be easy to find along the way, although a couple of days crossing a dry lake bed would be necessary.\n\nReed was very impressed with this information, and advocated for the Hastings Cutoff. None of the party received Bryant's letters warning them to avoid Hastings' route at all costs; in his diary account, Bryant states his conviction that Bridger deliberately concealed the letters, a view shared by Reed in his later testimony.\n\nOn July 31, 1846, the party left Blacks Fork after four days of rest and wagon repairs, eleven days behind the leading Harlan-Young group. Donner hired a replacement driver, and the company was joined by the McCutcheon family, consisting of 30-year-old William, his 24-year-old wife Amanda, two-year-old daughter Harriet, and a 16-year-old named Jean Baptiste Trudeau from New Mexico, who claimed to have knowledge of the Native Americans and terrain on the way to California.\n\nThe party turned south to follow the Hastings Cutoff. Within days, they found the terrain to be much more difficult than described, and the drivers were forced to lock the wheels of their wagons to prevent them from rolling down steep inclines. Several years of traffic on the main Oregon Trail had left an easy and obvious path, whereas the Cutoff was more difficult to find. Hastings wrote directions and left letters stuck to trees. On August 6, the party found a letter from Hastings advising them to stop until he could show them an alternative route to that taken by the Harlan-Young Party. Reed, Charles Stanton, and William Pike rode ahead to get Hastings. They encountered exceedingly difficult canyons where boulders had to be moved and walls cut off precariously to a river below, a route likely to break wagons. Hastings had offered in his letter to guide the Donner Party around the more difficult areas, but he rode back only part way, indicating the general direction to follow.\n\nStanton and Pike stopped to rest, and Reed returned alone to the group, arriving four days after the party's departure. Without the guide they had been promised, the group had to decide whether to turn back and rejoin the traditional trail, follow the tracks left by the Harlan-Young Party through the difficult terrain of Weber Canyon, or forge their own trail in the direction that Hastings had recommended. At Reed's urging, the group chose the new Hastings route. Their progress slowed to about a mile and a half (2.4 km) a day, and all the able-bodied men were required to clear brush, fell trees, and heave rocks to make room for the wagons.\n\nAs the Donner Party made its way across the Wasatch Mountains, they were caught up by the Graves family, who had set off to find them. The Graves family consisted of 57-year-old Franklin Graves, his 47-year-old wife Elizabeth, their children Mary (20), William (18), Eleanor (15), Lovina (13), Nancy (9), Jonathan (7), Franklin, Jr. (5), Elizabeth (1), and married daughter Sarah (22), plus son-in-law Jay Fosdick (23), and a 25-year-old teamster named John Snyder, traveling together in three wagons. Their arrival brought the Donner Party to 87 members in 60–80 wagons. The Graves family had been part of the last group to leave Missouri, confirming that the Donner Party was at the back of the year's western exodus.\n\nIt was August 20 by the time that they reached a point in the mountains where they could look down and see the Great Salt Lake. It took almost another two weeks to travel out of the Wasatch Mountains. The men began to argue, and doubts were expressed about the wisdom of those who had chosen this route, in particular James Reed. Food and supplies began to run out for some of the less affluent families. Stanton and Pike had ridden out with Reed but had become lost on their way back; by the time that the party found them, they were a day away from eating their horses.\n\nLuke Halloran died of tuberculosis on August 25. A few days later, the party came across a torn and tattered letter from Hastings. The pieces indicated that there were two days and nights of difficult travel ahead without grass or water. The party rested their oxen and prepared for the trip. After 36 hours they set off to traverse a mountain that lay in their path. From its peak, they saw ahead of them a dry, barren plain, perfectly flat and covered with white salt, larger than the one which they had just crossed, and \"one of the most inhospitable places on earth\" according to Rarick. Their oxen were already fatigued and their water was nearly gone.\n\nThe party pressed onward on August 30, having no alternative. In the heat of the day, the moisture underneath the salt crust rose to the surface and turned the soil to a gummy mass. The wheels of their wagons sank into it, in some cases up to the hubs. The days were blisteringly hot and the nights frigid. Several of the group saw visions of lakes and wagon trains, and believed that they had finally overtaken Hastings. After three days, the water was gone, and some of the party removed their oxen from the wagons to press ahead to find more. Some of the animals were so weakened they were left yoked to the wagons and abandoned. Nine of Reed's ten oxen broke free, crazed with thirst, and bolted off into the desert. Many other families' cattle and horses had also gone missing. The rigors of the journey resulted in irreparable damage to some of the wagons, but no human lives had been lost. Instead of the promised two days journey over 40 miles, the journey across the 80 miles of Great Salt Lake Desert had taken six.\n\nNone of the party had any remaining faith in the Hastings Cutoff as they recovered at the springs on the other side of the desert. They spent several days trying to recover cattle, retrieve the wagons left in the desert, and transfer their food and supplies to other wagons. Reed's family incurred the heaviest losses, and Reed became more assertive, asking all the families to submit an inventory of their goods and food to him. He suggested that two men should go to Sutter's Fort in California; he had heard that John Sutter was exceedingly generous to wayward pioneers, and could assist them with extra provisions. Charles Stanton and William McCutchen volunteered to undertake the dangerous trip. The remaining serviceable wagons were pulled by mongrel teams of cows, oxen, and mules. It was the middle of September, and two young men who went in search of missing oxen reported that another long stretch of desert lay ahead.\n\nTheir cattle and oxen were now exhausted and lean, but the Donner Party crossed the next stretch of desert relatively unscathed, and the journey seemed to get easier, particularly through the valley next to the Ruby Mountains. Despite their near hatred of Hastings, they had no choice but to follow his tracks, which were weeks old. On September 26, two months after embarking on the cutoff, the Donner Party rejoined the traditional trail along a stream that became known as the Humboldt River. The shortcut had probably delayed them by a month.\n\nAlong the Humboldt, the group met Paiute Native Americans, who joined them for a couple of days but stole or shot several oxen and horses. By now, it was well into October, and the Donner families split off to make better time. Two wagons in the remaining group became tangled, and John Snyder angrily beat the ox of Reed's hired teamster Milt Elliott. When Reed intervened, Snyder turned the whip on him. Reed retaliated by fatally plunging a knife under Snyder's collarbone.\n\nThat evening, the witnesses gathered to discuss what was to be done. United States laws were not applicable west of the Continental Divide (in what was then Mexican territory) and wagon trains often dispensed their own justice. But George Donner, the party's leader, was a full day ahead of the main wagon train with his family. Snyder had been seen to hit James Reed, and some claimed that he had also hit Margret Reed, but Snyder had been popular and Reed was not. Keseberg suggested that Reed should be hanged, but an eventual compromise allowed Reed to leave the camp without his family, who were to be taken care of by the others. Reed departed alone the next morning, unarmed, but his daughter Virginia rode ahead and secretly provided him with a rifle and food.\n\nThe trials that the Donner Party had so far endured resulted in splintered groups, each looking out for themselves and distrustful of the others. Grass was becoming scarce, and the animals were steadily weakening. To relieve the load of the animals, everyone was expected to walk. Keseberg ejected Hardkoop from his wagon, telling the elderly man that he had to walk or die. A few days later, Hardkoop sat next to a stream, his feet so swollen that they split open, and he was not seen again. William Eddy pleaded with the others to find Hardkoop, but they all refused, swearing that they would waste no more resources on a man who was almost 70 years old.\n\nMeanwhile, Reed caught up with the Donners and went on ahead with one of his teamsters, Walter Herron. The two shared a horse, and they were able to cover 25–40 miles (40–64 km) per day. The rest of the party rejoined the Donners, but their bad luck continued. Native Americans chased away all of Graves' horses, and another wagon was left behind. With grass in short supply, the cattle spread out more, which allowed the Paiutes to steal 18 more during one evening; and several mornings later, the Paiutes shot another 21. So far, the company had lost nearly 100 oxen and cattle, and their rations were almost completely depleted. One more stretch of desert lay ahead. The Eddys' oxen had been killed by Native Americans and they were forced to abandon their wagon. The family had eaten all their stores, but the other families refused to assist their children. The Eddys were forced to walk, carrying their children and miserable with thirst. Margret Reed and her children were also now without a wagon. But the desert soon came to an end, and the party found the Truckee River in beautiful lush country.\n\nThey had little time to rest, and the company pressed on to cross the mountains before the snows came. Stanton found the company (one of the two-man party who had left a month earlier to seek assistance in California), and he brought mules, food, and two Miwok Native Americans named Luis and Salvador. He also brought news that Reed and Herron, although haggard and starving, had succeeded in reaching Sutter's Fort in California. By this point, according to Rarick, \"To the bedraggled, half-starved members of the Donner Party, it must have seemed that the worst of their problems had passed. They had already endured more than many emigrants ever did.\"\n\nFaced with one last push over mountains that were described as much worse than the Wasatch, the ragtag company had to decide whether to forge ahead or rest their cattle. It was October 20 and they had been told that the pass would not be snowed in until the middle of November. William Pike was killed when a gun being loaded by William Foster was discharged negligently, an event that seemed to make the decision for them; family by family, they resumed their journey, first the Breens, then Kesebergs, Stanton with the Reeds, Graves, and Murphys. The Donners waited and traveled last. After a few miles of rough terrain, an axle broke on one of the Donners' wagons. Jacob and George went into the woods to fashion a replacement. George Donner sliced his hand open while chiseling the wood, but it seemed a superficial wound.\n\nSnow began to fall. The Breens made it up the \"massive, nearly vertical slope\" to Truckee Lake (now known as Donner Lake), from the summit, and camped near a cabin that had been built two years earlier by another group of pioneers. The Eddys and Kesebergs joined the Breens, attempting to make it over the pass, but they found drifts of snow, and were unable to find the trail. They turned back for Truckee Lake and, within a day, all the families were camped there except for the Donners, who were below them—half a day's journey. Over the next few days, several more attempts were made to breach the pass with their wagons and animals, but all efforts failed.\n\nSixty members and associates of the Breen, Graves, Reed, Murphy, Keseberg, and Eddy families set up for the winter at Truckee Lake. Three widely separated cabins of pine logs served as their homes, with dirt floors and poorly constructed flat roofs that leaked when it rained. The Breens occupied one cabin, the Eddys and Murphys another, and Reeds and Graves the third. Keseberg built a lean-to for his family against the side of the Breen cabin. The families used canvas or oxhide to patch the faulty roofs. The cabins had no windows or doors, only large holes to allow entry. Of the 60 at Truckee Lake, 19 were men over 18, 12 were women, and 29 were children, 6 of whom were toddlers or younger. Farther down the trail, close to Alder Creek, the Donner families hastily constructed tents to house 21 people, including Mrs. Wolfinger, her child, and the Donners' drivers: 6 men, 3 women, and 12 children in all. It began to snow again on the evening of November 4—the beginning of a storm that lasted 8 days.\n\nBy the time the party made camp, very little food remained from the supplies that Stanton had brought back from Sutter's Fort. The oxen began to die and their carcasses were frozen and stacked. Truckee Lake was not yet frozen, but the pioneers were unfamiliar with catching lake trout. Eddy, the most experienced hunter, killed a bear, but had little luck after that. The Reed and Eddy families had lost almost everything and Margret Reed promised to pay double when they got to California for the use of three oxen from the Graves and Breen families. Graves charged Eddy $25—normally the cost of two healthy oxen—for the carcass of an ox that had starved to death.\n\nDesperation grew in camp and some reasoned that individuals might succeed in navigating the pass where the wagons could not. On November 12, the storm abated and a small party tried to reach the summit on foot, but found the trek through the soft, deep powder too difficult, and returned that same evening. Over the next week, two more attempts were made by other small parties, but both quickly failed. On November 21, a large party of about 22 persons made an attempt and successfully reached the peak. The party traveled about west of the summit, but this trip too was aborted, and they returned to the lake on November 23.\n\nPatrick Breen began keeping a diary on November 20. He primarily concerned himself with the weather, marking the storms and how much snow had fallen, but gradually began to include references to God and religion in his entries. Life at Truckee Lake was miserable. The cabins were cramped and filthy, and it snowed so much that people were unable to go outdoors for days. Diets soon consisted of oxhide, strips of which were boiled to make a \"disagreeable\" glue-like jelly. Ox and horse bones were boiled repeatedly to make soup, and they became so brittle that they would crumble upon chewing. Sometimes they were softened by being charred and eaten. Bit by bit, the Murphy children picked apart the oxhide rug that lay in front of their fireplace, roasted it in the fire, and ate it. After the departure of the snowshoe party, two-thirds of the emigrants at Truckee Lake were children. Mrs. Graves was in charge of eight, and Levinah Murphy and Eleanor Eddy together took care of nine. Emigrants caught and ate mice that strayed into their cabins. Many of the people at Truckee Lake were soon weakened and spent most of their time in bed. Occasionally one would be able to make the full-day trek to see the Donners. News came that Jacob Donner and three hired men had died. One of them, Joseph Reinhardt, confessed on his deathbed that he had murdered Wolfinger. George Donner's hand had become infected, which left four men to work at the Donner camp.\n\nMargret Reed had managed to save enough food for a Christmas pot of soup, to the delight of her children, but by January they were facing starvation and considered eating the oxhides that served as their roof. Margret Reed, Virginia, Milt Elliott, and the servant girl Eliza Williams attempted to walk out, reasoning that it would be better to try to bring food back than sit and watch the children starve. They were gone for four days in the snow before they had to turn back. Their cabin was now uninhabitable; the oxhide-roof served as their food supply, and the family moved in with the Breens. The servants went to live with other families. One day, the Graves came by to collect on the debt owed by the Reeds and took the oxhides, all that the family had to eat.\n\nThe mountain party at Truckee Lake began to fail. Spitzer died, then Baylis Williams (a driver for the Reeds), more from malnutrition than starvation. Franklin Graves fashioned 14 pairs of snowshoes out of oxbows and hide. A party of 17 men, women, and children set out on foot in an attempt to cross the mountain pass. As evidence of how grim their choices were, four of the men were fathers, and three of the women mothers who gave their young children to other women. They packed lightly, taking what had become six days' rations, a rifle, a blanket each, a hatchet, and some pistols, hoping to make their way to Bear Valley. Historian Charles McGlashan later called this snowshoe party the \"Forlorn Hope\". Two of those without snowshoes, Charles Burger and 10-year-old William Murphy, turned back early on. Other members of the party fashioned a pair of snowshoes for Lemuel on the first evening from one of the packsaddles that they were carrying.\n\nThe snowshoes proved to be awkward but effective on the arduous climb. The members of the party were neither well-nourished nor accustomed to camping in snow deep and, by the third day, most were snowblind. On the sixth day, Eddy discovered that his wife had hidden a half-pound of bear meat in his pack. The group set out again the morning of December 21; Stanton had been straggling for several days, and he remained behind, saying that he would follow shortly. His remains were found in that location the following year.\n\nThe group became lost and confused. After two more days without food, Patrick Dolan proposed that one of them should volunteer to die in order to feed the others. Some suggested a duel, while another account describes an attempt to create a lottery to choose a member to sacrifice. Eddy suggested that they keep moving until someone simply fell, but a blizzard forced the group to halt. Antonio the animal handler was the first to die; Franklin Graves was the next casualty.\n\nAs the blizzard progressed, Patrick Dolan began to rant deliriously, stripped off his clothes, and ran into the woods. He returned shortly afterwards and died a few hours later. Not long after, possibly because 12-year-old Lemuel Murphy was near death, some of the group began to eat flesh from Dolan's body. Lemuel's sister tried to feed some to her brother, but he died shortly afterwards. Eddy, Salvador, and Luis refused to eat. The next morning, the group stripped the muscle and organs from the bodies of Antonio, Dolan, Graves, and Murphy and dried it to store for the days ahead, taking care to ensure that nobody would have to eat his or her relatives.\nAfter three days' rest, they set off again, searching for the trail. Eddy eventually succumbed to his hunger and ate human flesh, but that was soon gone. They began to take apart their snowshoes to eat the oxhide webbing and discussed killing Luis and Salvador for food, before Eddy warned the two men and they quietly left. Jay Fosdick died during the night, leaving only seven members of the party. Eddy and Mary Graves left to hunt, but when they returned with deer meat, Fosdick's body had already been cut apart for food. After several more days—25 since they had left Truckee Lake—they came across Salvador and Luis, who had not eaten for about nine days and were close to death. William Foster shot the pair, believing that their flesh was the group's last hope of avoiding imminent death from starvation.\n\nOn January 12, the group stumbled into a Miwok camp looking so deteriorated that the camp's inhabitants initially fled. The Miwoks gave them what they had to eat: acorns, grass, and pine nuts. After a few days, Eddy continued on with the help of a Miwok to a ranch in a small farming community at the edge of the Sacramento Valley. A hurriedly assembled rescue party found the other six survivors on January 17. Their journey from Truckee Lake had taken 33 days.\n\nJames F. Reed made it out of the Sierra Nevada to Rancho Johnson in late October. He was safe and recovering at Sutter's Fort, but each day he became more concerned for the fate of his family and friends. He pleaded with Colonel John C. Frémont to gather a team of men to cross the pass and help the company, in return for which Reed promised that he would join Frémont's forces and fight in the Mexican–American War. Reed was joined by McCutchen, who had been unable to return with Stanton, as well as some members of the Harlan-Young party. The Harlan-Young wagon train had arrived at Sutter's Fort on October 8, the last to make it over the Sierra Nevada that season. The party of roughly 30 horses and a dozen men carried food supplies, and expected to find the Donner Party on the western side of the mountain, along the Bear River below the steep approach to Emigrant Gap, perhaps starving but alive. When they arrived in the river valley, they found only a pioneer couple, immigrants who had been separated from their company and were near starvation.\n\nTwo guides deserted Reed and McCutchen with some of their horses, but they pressed on farther up the valley to Yuba Bottoms, walking the last mile on foot. Reed and McCutchen stood looking up at Emigrant Gap, only from the top, blocked by snow, possibly on the same day that the Breens attempted to lead one last effort to crest the pass from the east. Despondent, they turned back to Sutter's Fort.\n\nMuch of the military in California were engaged in the Mexican–American War, and with them the able-bodied men. For example, Colonel Frémont's personnel were occupied at that precise time in capturing Santa Barbara. Throughout the region, roads were blocked, communications compromised, and supplies unavailable. Only three men responded to a call for volunteers to rescue the Donner Party. Reed was laid over in San Jose until February because of regional uprisings and general confusion. He spent that time speaking with other pioneers and acquaintances, and the people of San Jose responded by creating a petition to appeal to the U.S. Navy to assist the people at Truckee Lake. Two local newspapers reported that members of the snowshoe party had resorted to cannibalism, which helped to foster sympathy for those who were still trapped. Residents of Yerba Buena, many of them recent emigrants, raised $1,300 ($ in ) and organized relief efforts to build two camps to supply a rescue party for the refugees.\n\nA rescue party including William Eddy started on February 4 from the Sacramento Valley. Rain and a swollen river forced several delays. Eddy stationed himself at Bear Valley, while the others made steady progress through the snow and storms to cross the pass to Truckee Lake, caching their food at stations along the way so that they did not have to carry it all. Three of the rescue party turned back, but seven forged on.\n\nOn February 18, the seven-man rescue party scaled Frémont Pass (now Donner Pass); as they neared where Eddy told them the cabins would be, they began to shout. Mrs. Murphy appeared from a hole in the snow, stared at them and asked, \"Are you men from California, or do you come from heaven?\" The relief party doled out food in small portions, concerned that it might kill them if the emaciated immigrants overate. All the cabins were buried in snow. Sodden oxhide roofs had begun to rot and the smell was overpowering. Thirteen people at the camps were dead, and their bodies had been loosely buried in snow near the cabin roofs. Some of the emigrants seemed emotionally unstable. Three of the rescue party trekked to the Donners and brought back four gaunt children and three adults. Leanna Donner had particular difficulty walking up the steep incline from Alder Creek to Truckee Lake, later writing \"such pain and misery as I endured that day is beyond description.\" George Donner's arm was so gangrenous that he could not move. Twenty-three people were chosen to go with the rescue party, leaving twenty-one in the cabins at Truckee Lake and twelve at Alder Creek.\n\nThe rescuers concealed the fate of the snowshoe party, informing the rescued immigrants only that they did not return because they were frostbitten. Patty and Tommy Reed were soon too weak to cross the snowdrifts, and no one was strong enough to carry them. Margret Reed faced the agonizing predicament of accompanying her two older children to Bear Valley and watching her two frailest be taken back to Truckee Lake without a parent. She made rescuer Aquilla Glover swear on his honor as a Mason that he would return for her children. Patty Reed told her, \"Well, mother, if you never see me again, do the best you can.\" Upon their return to the lake, the Breens flatly refused them entry to their cabin but, after Glover left more food, the children were grudgingly admitted. The rescue party was dismayed to find that the first cache station had been broken into by animals, leaving them without food for four days. After struggling on the walk over the pass, John Denton slipped into a coma and died. Ada Keseberg died soon afterwards; her mother was inconsolable, refusing to let the child's body go. After several days' more travel through difficult country, the rescuers grew very concerned that the children would not survive. Some of them ate the buckskin fringe from one of the rescuer's pants, and the shoelaces of another, to the relief party's surprise. On their way down from the mountains, they met the next rescue party, which included James Reed. Upon hearing his voice, Margret sank into the snow, overwhelmed.\n\nAfter these rescued emigrants made it safely into Bear Valley, William Hook, Jacob Donner's stepson, broke into food stores and fatally gorged himself. The others continued on to Sutter's Fort, where Virginia Reed wrote \"I really thought I had stepped over into paradise\". She was amused to note that one of the young men asked her to marry him, although she was only 12 years old and recovering from starvation, but she turned him down.\n\nOn March 1, a second relief party arrived at Truckee Lake. These rescuers were mostly experienced mountaineers who accompanied the return of Reed and McCutchen. Reed was reunited with his daughter Patty and his weakened son Tommy. An inspection of the Breen cabin found its occupants relatively well, but the Murphy cabin, according to author George Stewart, \"passed the limits of description and almost of imagination\". Levinah Murphy was caring for her eight-year-old son Simon and the two young children of William Eddy and Foster. She had deteriorated mentally and was nearly blind. The children were listless and had not been cleaned in days. Lewis Keseberg had moved into the cabin and could barely move due to an injured leg.\n\nNo one at Truckee Lake had died during the interim between the departure of the first relief party and the arrival of the second relief party. Patrick Breen documented a disturbing visit in the last week of February from Mrs. Murphy, who said that her family was considering eating Milt Elliott. Reed and McCutchen found Elliott's mutilated body. The Alder Creek camp fared no better. The first two members of the relief party to reach it saw Trudeau carrying a human leg. When they made their presence known, he threw it into a hole in the snow that contained the mostly dismembered body of Jacob Donner. Inside the tent, Elizabeth Donner refused to eat, although her children were being nourished by the organs of their father. The rescuers discovered that three other bodies had already been consumed. In the other tent, Tamsen Donner was well, but George was very ill because the infection had reached his shoulder.\n\nThe second relief evacuated 17 emigrants from Truckee Lake, only three of whom were adults. Both the Breen and Graves families prepared to go. Only five people remained at Truckee Lake: Keseberg, Mrs. Murphy and her son Simon, and the young Eddy and Foster children. Tamsen Donner elected to stay with her ailing husband after Reed informed her that a third relief party would arrive soon. Mrs. Donner kept her daughters Eliza, Georgia, and Frances with her.\n\nThe walk back to Bear Valley was very slow; at one point, Reed sent ahead two of the men to retrieve the first cache of food, expecting the third relief to come at any moment, a small party led by Selim E. Woodworth. A violent blizzard arose after they scaled the pass. Five-year-old Isaac Donner froze to death, and Reed nearly died. Mary Donner's feet were badly burned because they were so frostbitten that she did not realize she was sleeping with them in the fire. When the storm passed, the Breen and Graves families were too apathetic and exhausted to get up and move, not having eaten for days. The relief party had no choice but to leave without them.\nThree members of the relief party stayed, one at Truckee Lake and two at Alder Creek. When one, Nicholas Clark, went hunting, the other two, Charles Cady and Charles Stone, made plans to return to California. Tamsen Donner arranged for them to carry three of her children to California, perhaps for $500 cash, according to Stewart. Cady and Stone took the children to Truckee Lake but then left alone, overtaking Reed and the others within days. Several days later, Clark and Trudeau agreed to leave together. When they discovered the Donner girls at Truckee Lake, they returned to Alder Creek to inform Tamsen Donner.\n\nWilliam Foster and William Eddy, both survivors of the snowshoe party, started from Bear Valley to intercept Reed, taking with them a man named John Stark. After one day, they met Reed helping his children, all frostbitten and bleeding but alive. Desperate to rescue their own children, Foster and Eddy persuaded four men, with pleading and money, to return to Truckee Lake with them. Halfway there they found the crudely mutilated and eaten remains of two children and Mrs. Graves, with one-year-old Elizabeth Graves crying beside her mother's body. Eleven survivors were huddled around a fire that had sunk into a pit. The relief party split, with Foster, Eddy, and two others headed toward Truckee Lake. Two rescuers, hoping to save the healthiest, each took a child and left. John Stark refused to leave the others. Stark picked up two children and all the provisions, and assisted the nine remaining Breens and Graves to Bear Valley.\n\nFoster and Eddy finally arrived at Truckee Lake on March 14, where they found their children dead. Keseberg told Eddy that he had eaten the remains of Eddy's son, and Eddy swore to murder Keseberg if they ever met in California. George Donner and one of Jacob Donner's children were still alive at Alder Creek. Tamsen Donner had just arrived at the Murphy cabin, and she could have walked out alone but chose to return to her husband, even though she was informed that no other relief party was likely to be coming soon. Foster and Eddy and the rest of the third relief left with four children, Trudeau, and Clark.\n\nTwo more relief parties were mustered to evacuate any adults who might still be alive. Both turned back before getting to Bear Valley, and no further attempts were made. On April 10, almost a month since the third relief had left Truckee Lake, the \"alcalde\" near Sutter's Fort organized a salvage party to recover what they could of the Donners' belongings. The belongings would be sold, with part of the proceeds used to support the orphaned Donner children. The salvage party found the Alder Creek tents empty except for the body of George Donner, who had died only days earlier. On their way back to Truckee Lake, they found Lewis Keseberg alive. According to him, Mrs. Murphy had died a week after the departure of the third relief. Some weeks later, Tamsen Donner had arrived at his cabin on her way over the pass, soaked and visibly upset. Keseberg said that he put a blanket around her and told her to start out in the morning, but she died during the night.\n\nThe salvage party were suspicious of Keseberg's story, and found a pot full of human flesh in the cabin along with George Donner's pistols, jewelry, and $250 in gold. They threatened to lynch Keseberg, who confessed that he had cached $273 of the Donners' money at Tamsen's suggestion, so that it could one day benefit her children. On April 29, 1847, Keseberg was the last member of the Donner Party to arrive at Sutter's Fort.\n\nNews of the Donner Party's fate was spread eastward by Samuel Brannan, an elder of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and journalist, who ran into the salvage party as they came down from the pass with Keseberg. Accounts of the ordeal first reached New York City in July 1847. Reporting on the event across the U.S. was heavily influenced by the national enthusiasm for westward migration. In some papers, news of the tragedy was buried in small paragraphs despite the contemporary tendency to sensationalize stories. Several newspapers, including those in California, wrote about the cannibalism in graphic exaggerated detail. In some print accounts, the members of the Donner Party were depicted as heroes, and California a paradise worthy of significant sacrifices.\n\nEmigration to the west decreased over the following years, but it is likely that the drop in numbers was caused more by fears over the outcome of the ongoing Mexican–American War than by the cautionary tale of the Donner Party. In 1846, an estimated 1,500 people migrated to California. In 1847, the number dropped to 450 and to 400 in 1848. The California Gold Rush spurred a sharp increase, however, and 25,000 people went west in 1849. Most of the overland migration followed the Carson River, but a few forty-niners used the same route as the Donner Party and recorded descriptions about the site.\n\nIn late June 1847, members of the Mormon Battalion under General Stephen Kearny buried the human remains, and partially burned two of the cabins. The few who ventured over the pass in the next few years found bones, other artifacts, and the cabin used by the Reed and Graves families. In 1891, a cache of money was found buried by the lake. It had probably been stored by Mrs. Graves, who hastily hid it when she left with the second relief so that she could return for it later.\n\nLansford Hastings received death threats. An emigrant who crossed before the Donner Party confronted Hastings about the difficulties they had encountered, reporting: \"Of course he could say nothing but that he was very sorry, and that he meant well\".\n\nOf the 87 people who entered the Wasatch Mountains, 48 survived. Only the Reed and Breen families remained intact. The children of Jacob Donner, George Donner, and Franklin Graves were orphaned. William Eddy was alone and most of the Murphy family had died. Only three mules reached California; the remaining animals perished. Most of the Donner Party members' possessions were discarded.\n\nA few of the widowed women remarried within months; brides were scarce in California. The Reeds settled in San Jose and two of the Donner children lived with them. Reed fared well in the California Gold Rush and became prosperous. Virginia wrote an extensive letter to her cousin in Illinois about \"our troubles getting to Callifornia\", with editorial oversight from her father. Journalist Edwin Bryant carried it back in June 1847, and it was printed in its entirety in the \"Illinois Journal\" on December 16, 1847, with some editorial alterations.\n\nVirginia converted to Catholicism in fulfillment of a promise which she had made to herself while observing Patrick Breen pray in his cabin. The Murphy survivors lived in Marysville. The Breens made their way to San Juan Bautista where they operated an inn and became the anonymous subjects of J. Ross Browne's story about his severe discomfort upon learning that he was staying with alleged cannibals, printed in \"Harper's Magazine\" in 1862. Many of the survivors encountered similar reactions.\n\nGeorge and Tamsen Donner's children were taken in by an older couple near Sutter's Fort. Eliza was three years old during the winter of 1846–1847, the youngest of the Donner children. She published an account of the Donner Party in 1911, based on printed accounts and those of her sisters. The Breens' youngest daughter Isabella was one year old during the winter of 1846–1847, and was the last survivor of the Donner Party. She died in 1935.\n\nThe Graves children lived varied lives. Mary Graves married early, but her first husband was murdered. She cooked his killer's food while he was in prison to ensure that the condemned man did not starve before his hanging. One of Mary's grandchildren noted that she was very serious; Graves once said, \"I wish I could cry but I cannot. If I could forget the tragedy, perhaps I would know how to cry again.\" Mary's brother William did not settle down for any significant time.\n\nNancy Graves was nine years old during the winter of 1846–1847. She refused to acknowledge her involvement even when contacted by historians interested in recording the most accurate versions of the episode. Nancy reportedly was unable to recover from her role in the cannibalism of her brother and mother.\n\nEddy remarried and started a family in California. He attempted to follow through on his promise to murder Lewis Keseberg, but was dissuaded by James Reed and Edwin Bryant. A year later, Eddy recollected his experiences to J. Quinn Thornton, who wrote the earliest comprehensive documentation of the episode, also using Reed's memories of his experiences. Eddy died in 1859.\n\nKeseberg brought a defamation suit against several members of the relief party who accused him of murdering Tamsen Donner. The court awarded him $1 in damages, but also made him pay court costs. An 1847 story printed in the \"California Star\" described Keseberg's actions in ghoulish terms and his near-lynching by the salvage party, reporting that he preferred eating human flesh over the cattle and horses that had become exposed in the spring thaw. Historian Charles McGlashan amassed enough material to indict Keseberg for the murder of Tamsen Donner, but after interviewing Keseberg he concluded that no murder occurred. Eliza Donner Houghton also believed Keseberg to be innocent.\n\nAs Keseberg grew older, he did not venture outside, for he had become a pariah and was often threatened. He told McGlashan, \"I often think that the Almighty has singled me out, among all the men on the face of the earth, in order to see how much hardship, suffering, and misery a human being can bear!\"\n\nThe Donner Party episode was insignificant in comparison with the hundreds of thousands of emigrants to Oregon and California, but it has served as the basis for numerous works of history, fiction, drama, poetry, and film. The attention directed at the Donner Party is made possible by reliable accounts of what occurred, according to Stewart, and the fact that \"the cannibalism, although it might almost be called a minor episode, has become in the popular mind the chief fact to be remembered about the Donner Party. For a taboo always allures with as great strength as it repels\". The appeal is that the events focused on families and ordinary people, according to Johnson, writing in 1996, instead of on rare individuals, and that the events are \"a dreadful irony that hopes of prosperity, health, and a new life in California's fertile valleys led many only to misery, hunger, and death on her stony threshold\".\n\nThe site of the cabins became a tourist attraction as early as 1854. In the 1880s, Charles McGlashan began promoting the idea of a monument to mark the site of the Donner Party episode. He helped to acquire the land for a monument and, in June 1918, the statue of a pioneer family was placed on the spot where the Breen-Keseberg cabin was thought to have been, dedicated to the Donner Party. It was made a California Historical Landmark in 1934.\n\nThe State of California created the Donner Memorial State Park in 1927. It originally consisted of surrounding the monument. Twenty years later, the site of the Murphy cabin was purchased and added to the park. In 1962, the Emigrant Trail Museum was added to tell the history of westward migration into California. The Murphy cabin and Donner monument were established as a National Historic Landmark in 1963. A large rock served as the back end of the fireplace of the Murphy cabin, and a bronze plaque has been affixed to the rock listing the members of the Donner Party, indicating who survived and who did not. The State of California justifies memorializing the site because the episode was \"an isolated and tragic incident of American history that has been transformed into a major folk epic\". As of 2003, the park is estimated to receive 200,000 visitors a year.\n\nMost historians count 87 members of the party, although Stephen McCurdy in the \"Western Journal of Medicine\" includes Sarah Keyes—Margret Reed's mother—and Luis and Salvador, bringing the number to 90. Five people had already died before the party reached Truckee Lake: one from tuberculosis (Halloran), three from trauma (Snyder, Wolfinger, and Pike), and one from exposure (Hardkoop). A further 34 died between December 1846 and April 1847: twenty-five males and nine females. Several historians and other authorities have studied the mortalities to determine what factors may affect survival in nutritionally deprived individuals. Of the fifteen members of the snowshoe party, eight of the ten men who set out died (Stanton, Dolan, Graves, Murphy, Antonio, Fosdick, Luis, and Salvador), but all five of the women survived. A professor at the University of Washington stated that the Donner Party episode is a \"case study of demographically-mediated natural selection in action\".\n\nThe deaths at Truckee Lake, Alder Creek, and in the snowshoe party were probably caused by a combination of extended malnutrition, overwork, and exposure to cold. Several members became more susceptible to infection due to starvation, such as George Donner, but the three most significant factors in survival were age, sex, and the size of family group that each member traveled with. The survivors were on average 7.5 years younger than those who died; children aged between 6 and 14 had a much higher survival rate than infants and children under the age of 6, of whom 62.5 percent died, including the son born to the Kesebergs on the trail, or adults over the age of 35. No adults over the age of 49 survived. Deaths were \"extremely high\" among males aged between 20 and 39, at more than 66 percent. Men have been found to metabolize protein faster, and women do not require as high a caloric intake. Women also store more body fat, which delays the effects of physical degradation caused by starvation and overwork. Men also tend to take on more dangerous tasks and, in this particular instance, the men were required to clear brush and engage in heavy labor before reaching Truckee Lake, adding to their physical debilitation. Those traveling with family members had a higher survival rate than bachelor males, possibly because family members more readily shared food with each other.\n\nAlthough some survivors disputed the accounts of cannibalism, Charles McGlashan, who corresponded with many of the survivors over a 40-year period, documented many recollections that it occurred. Some correspondents were not forthcoming, approaching their participation with shame, but others eventually spoke about it freely. McGlashan in his 1879 book \"History of the Donner Party\" declined to include some of the more morbid detailssuch as the suffering of the children and infants before death, or how Mrs. Murphy, according to Georgia Donner, gave up, lay down on her bed and faced the wall when the last of the children left in the third relief. He also neglected to mention any cannibalism at Alder Creek. The same year McGlashan's book was published, Georgia Donner wrote to him to clarify some points, saying that human flesh was prepared for people in both tents at Alder Creek, but to her recollection (she was four years old during the winter of 1846–1847) it was given only to the youngest children: \"Father was crying and did not look at us the entire time, and we little ones felt we could not help it. There was nothing else.\" She also remembered that Elizabeth Donner, Jacob's wife, announced one morning that she had cooked the arm of Samuel Shoemaker, a 25-year-old teamster. Eliza Donner Houghton, in her 1911 account of the ordeal, did not mention any cannibalism at Alder Creek.\n\nArchaeological findings at the Alder Creek camp proved inconclusive for evidence of cannibalism. None of the bones tested at the Alder Creek cooking hearth could be conclusively identified as human. According to Rarick, only cooked bones would be preserved, and it is unlikely that the Donner Party members would have needed to cook human bones.\n\nEliza Farnham's 1856 account of the Donner Party was based largely on an interview with Margaret Breen. Her version details the ordeals of the Graves and Breen families after James Reed and the second relief left them in the snow pit. According to Farnham, seven-year-old Mary Donner suggested to the others that they should eat Isaac Donner, Franklin Graves, Jr., and Elizabeth Graves, because the Donners had already begun eating the others at Alder Creek, including Mary's father Jacob. Margaret Breen insisted that she and her family did not cannibalize the dead, but Kristin Johnson, Ethan Rarick, and Joseph Kingwhose account is sympathetic to the Breen familydo not consider it credible that the Breens, who had been without food for nine days, would have been able to survive without eating human flesh. King suggests Farnham included this into her account independently of Margaret Breen.\n\nAccording to an account published by H. A. Wise in 1847, Jean Baptiste Trudeau boasted of his own heroism, but also spoke in lurid detail of eating Jacob Donner, and claimed he had eaten a baby raw. Many years later, Trudeau met Eliza Donner Houghton and denied cannibalizing anyone, which he reiterated in an interview with a St. Louis newspaper in 1891, when he was 60 years old. Houghton and the other Donner children were fond of Trudeau, and he of them, in spite of their circumstances and the fact that he eventually left Tamsen Donner alone. Author George Stewart considers Trudeau's accounting to Wise more accurate than what he told Houghton in 1884, and asserted that he deserted the Donners. Kristin Johnson, on the other hand, attributes Trudeau's interview with Wise to be a result of \"common adolescent desires to be the center of attention and to shock one's elders\"; when older, he reconsidered his story, so as not to upset Houghton. Historians Joseph King and Jack Steed call Stewart's characterization of Trudeau's actions as desertion \"extravagant moralism\", particularly because all members of the party were forced to make difficult choices. Ethan Rarick echoed this by writing, \"more than the gleaming heroism or sullied villainy, the Donner Party is a story of hard decisions that were neither heroic nor villainous\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "611345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=611345", "title": "Drusus Caesar", "text": "Drusus Caesar\n\nDrusus Caesar (; AD 8 – AD 33) was the adopted grandson and heir of the Roman Emperor Tiberius, alongside his brother Nero. Born into the prominent Julio Claudian dynasty, Drusus was the son of Tiberius' general and heir, Germanicus. After the deaths of his father and of Tiberius' son, Drusus the Younger, Drusus and his brother Nero were adopted together by Tiberius in September AD 23. As a result of being heirs of the emperor, he and his brother enjoyed accelerated political careers.\n\nSejanus, the prefect of the Praetorian Guard, had become powerful in Rome and is believed by ancient writers such as Suetonius and Tacitus to have been responsible for the downfall of Drusus the younger. As Sejanus' power grew, other members of the imperial family began to fall as well. In AD 29, Tiberius wrote a letter to the Senate attacking Nero and his mother, and the Senate had them both exiled. Two years later, Nero died in exile on the island of Ponza. Drusus was later imprisoned following similar charges as his brother, and remained in prison from AD 30 until his death three years later. Their deaths allowed for the adoption and ascension of their third brother, Gaius Caligula, following the death of Tiberius in AD 37.\n\nDrusus was born in around AD 8 to Germanicus and Agrippina the Elder. Drusus' paternal grandparents were Nero Claudius Drusus (Drusus the Elder) and Antonia Minor, daughter of Mark Antony and Octavia Minor. His maternal grandparents were Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa, a close friend of Augustus, and Augustus' daughter Julia the Elder. Drusus had eight siblings: four brothers (Tiberius and Gaius Julius, who died young; Nero Caesar; and Gaius, nicknamed \"Caligula\"), three sisters (Agrippina the Younger, Julia Drusilla, and Julia Livilla), and a brother or sister of unknown name (normally referenced as Ignotus).\n\nAs a member of the Julio-Claudian dynasty, he was a close relative of all five Julio-Claudian emperors: his great-grandfather Augustus was the first emperor of the dynasty, his great-uncle Tiberius was the second emperor, his brother Gaius (Caligula) was the third emperor, his uncle Claudius was the fourth emperor, and his nephew Lucius Domitius (more commonly known as \"Nero\") was the fifth and final emperor of the dynasty.\n\nHis father was the adopted son of Tiberius, who was himself the adoptive son of Augustus, whose adoptions were the result of the death of Gaius Caesar in February AD 4. Gaius, who was the heir of Augustus, had died of illness in Syria. Germanicus was for some time considered a potential heir by Augustus, but Augustus later decided in favor of his stepson Tiberius. As a result, in June AD 4, Augustus adopted Tiberius on the condition that Tiberius first adopt Germanicus. As a corollary to the adoption, Germanicus was wed to his second cousin Agrippina the Elder the following year.\n\nIn AD 13 his father was appointed commander of the forces on the Rhine, from where he led three campaigns into Germany against the forces of Arminius, which had made him popular as he avenged the humiliating Roman defeat at the Battle of Teutoburg Forest. In October AD 14, Germanicus received a delegation from the Senate giving its condolences for the death of Augustus. Augustus had died in August and Tiberius became emperor, making Germanicus heir to the empire. \n\nAt the direction of Tiberius, Germanicus was dispatched to Asia to reorganize the provinces and assert imperial authority there. The provinces were in such disarray that the attention of a member of the leading family was deemed necessary. However, after two years in the east, Germanicus came at odds with the governor of Syria, Gnaeus Calpurnius Piso. During their feud, Germanicus fell ill and died in October AD 19.\n\nDrusus married Aemilia Lepida around AD 29. She was the daughter of Marcus Aemilius Lepidus, his second cousin. Tacitus reports that during their marriage \"she had pursued her husband with ceaseless accusations\". In 36, she was charged with adultery with a slave and committed suicide, \"since there was no question about her guilt\".\n\nHis mother Agrippina believed her husband was murdered to promote Drusus the Younger as heir, and feared that the birth of his twin sons would give him motive to displace her own sons. However, her fears were unfounded, with Nero being elevated by Tiberius in AD 20. Nero received the \"toga virilis\" (toga of manhood), was promised the office of quaestor five years in advance, and was wed to Drusus the Younger's daughter Julia.\n\nFollowing the death of Germanicus, Drusus the Younger was Tiberius' new heir. He received a second consulship in AD 21 and \"tribunicia potestas\" (tribunician power) in AD 22. At the same time, Praetorian Prefect Sejanus now came to exert considerable influence over the emperor, who referred to Sejanus as \"Socius Laborum\" (\"my partner in my toils\"). According to Tacitus and Cassius Dio, the Younger Drusus and Sejanus began bickering and entered a feud during which Drusus became ill and died of seemingly natural causes on 14 September 23. Ancient sources say the cause of death was poison, whereas modern authors, such as Barbara Levick, suggest that it was may have been due to illness.\n\nThe death of the Younger Drusus left no immediate threat to Sejanus. Ultimately, his death elevated Drusus and Nero to the position of heirs. Drusus received the \"toga virilis\" and was promised the rank of quaestor five years before the legal age, just as his brother Nero had been given. In effect, this formed factions around them and their mother Agrippina on the one side and Sejanus on the other. It is impossible to know the full extent of Sejanus' power at this point, but it has been noted that Sejanus was not allowed to marry Livilla (Drusus the Younger's widow) and was thus denied entry into the imperial family. In the Senate, Sejanus encountered little opposition from the senators, but Tiberius expressed displeasure in the Senate, in AD 24, at the public prayers which had been offered for Nero and his brother Drusus' health. \n\nIn 28, the Senate voted that altars to \"Clementia\" (mercy) and \"Amicitia\" (friendship) be raised. At that time, \"Clementia\" was considered a virtue of the ruling class, for only the powerful could give clemency. The altar of \"Amicitia\" was flanked by statues of Sejanus and Tiberius. By this time his association with Tiberius was such that there were even those in Roman society who erected statues in his honor and gave prayers and sacrifices in his honor. Like members of the imperial family, Sejanus' birthday was to be honored. According to author and historian Alston, \"Sejanus' association with Tiberius must have at least indicated to the people that he would be further elevated.\"\n\nThe very next year saw a direct attack on Agrippina and Nero: Tiberius sent a letter to the Senate in which he accused Agrippina and Nero of misconduct, but was unable to convict them of any attempt at rebellion; the attitude of the former and the sexual activity of the latter were the primary accusations against them. Agrippina was popular with the people, as was the family of Germanicus, and the people surrounded the senate-house carrying likenesses of the two in protest of the letter. The Senate refused to come to a resolution on the matter until it received plain direction from the emperor to do so. Tiberius found it necessary to repeat his charges, and when he did, the Senate no longer delayed; and the fate of Agrippina and Nero was sealed. Nero was declared an enemy of the state, removed to the island of Pontia, and was killed or encouraged to kill himself in 31.\n\nAfter his wife Amelia betrayed him for Sejanus, Drusus was dismissed by Tiberius. It wasn't long before he was accused by Cassius Severus of plotting against Tiberius. He was imprisoned and confined to a dungeon on the Palatine in 30. He starved to death in prison in 33 after having been reduced to chewing the stuffing of his bed.\n\nSejanus remained powerful until his sudden downfall and summary execution in October AD 31, just after the death of Nero, the exact reasons for this remain unclear. After realizing his error in trusting Sejanus, Tiberius considered releasing Drusus, but decided that he had been imprisoned for too long to be released. The Senate was shocked reading the account of his imprisonment from his diary.\n\nThe deaths of Germanicus' oldest sons elevated his third son, Gaius Caesar (Caligula), to successor and he became \"princeps\" when Tiberius died in AD 37. Drusus the Younger's son Tiberius Gemellus was summoned to Capri by his grandfather Tiberius, where he and Gaius Caligula were made joint-heirs. When Caligula assumed power, he made Gemellus his adopted son, but Caligula soon had Gemellus killed for plotting against him.\n\n"}
{"id": "7271098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7271098", "title": "Edge recombination operator", "text": "Edge recombination operator\n\nThe edge recombination operator (ERO) is an operator that creates a path that is similar to a set of existing paths (parents) by looking at the edges rather than the vertices. The main application of this is for crossover in genetic algorithms when a genotype with non-repeating gene sequences is needed such as for the travelling salesman problem. It was described by Darrell Whitley and others in 1989.\n\nERO is based on an adjacency matrix, which lists the neighbors of each node in any parent.\nFor example, in a travelling salesman problem such as the one depicted, the node map for the parents CABDEF and ABCEFD (see illustration) is generated by taking the first parent, say, 'ABCEFD' and recording its immediate neighbors, including those that roll around the end of the string.\n\nTherefore;\n\n...is converted into the following adjacency matrix by taking each node in turn, and listing its connected neighbors;\n\nWith the same operation performed on the second parent (CABDEF), the following is produced:\n\nFollowed by making a union of these two lists, and ignoring any duplicates. This is as simple as taking the elements of each list and appending them to generate a list of unique link end points. In our example, generating this;\n\nThe result is another adjacency matrix, which stores the links for a network described by all the links in the parents. Note that more than two parents can be employed here to give more diverse links. However, this approach may result in sub-optimal paths.\n\nThen, to create a path K, the following algorithm is employed:\n\nTo step through the example, we randomly select a node from the parent starting points, {A, C}.\n\n\nNote that the only edge introduced in ABDFCE is AE.\n\nEdge recombination is generally considered a good option for problems like the travelling salesman problem. In a 1999 study at the University of the Basque Country, edge recombination provided better results than all the other crossover operators including partially mapped crossover and cycle crossover.\n\n"}
{"id": "11676633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11676633", "title": "Fext", "text": "Fext\n\nA Fext is a mythical undead creature in Slavic mythology. Its origins are found in the terrors of the Thirty Years' War (17th century) in central Europe. It is said that the Fext is invincible to bullets, except bullets made of glass. Some of the great generals of that time were called Fexts because of their assumed immortality.\n\n"}
{"id": "29216289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29216289", "title": "Flexible path", "text": "Flexible path\n\nThe flexible path was a set of destinations for further crewed space exploration in the inner Solar System proposed in the Review of United States Human Space Flight Plans Committee of 2009 and was envisioned as alternative to the Moon-first and Mars-first approaches.\n\nIn 2010 president Barack Obama announced change in the space policy from the Moon-first approach (adopted previously under the Vision for Space Exploration and Constellation program) to a variety of destinations resembling the flexible path approach.\n\nBold designates missions beyond Cis-lunar space.<br>\nCurrent as of 2010:\n\"Flexible path\" beyond Low Earth Orbit:\n\nThe list is ordered according to the delta-v required by the mission.\n"}
{"id": "35766980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35766980", "title": "Frog and the Birdsong", "text": "Frog and the Birdsong\n\nFrog and the Birdsong (Dutch: \"Kikker en het vogeltje\") is a 1991 children's book by Dutch author and illustrator Max Velthuijs. It is one of the books in the \"Frog\" series. The main character, Frog, finds a dead bird, and with the help of his friends investigates death and buries the bird, after which funerary games lead to insight on life. The book won the 1992 \"Gouden Griffel\" and is frequently used in classrooms and therapeutic settings to teach children how to cope with death.\n\nFrog runs to Pig to tell her he has found a \"broken\" bird (a songbird resembling a common blackbird). Pig thinks the bird is asleep. Duck, who joins the conversation, thinks it is ill, but Hare knows it is dead and solemnly declares that \"everything dies.\" Hare delivers a brief eulogy: \"He sang beautifully all of his life. Now he gets his well-deserved rest.\" The friends dig a grave for the bird, put flowers on its body, and put a rock over the grave. Afterward, as they are walking away, Frog starts playing tag and they all have a wonderful afternoon, prompting Frog to exclaim, \"Isn't life beautiful!\" As they return home at sundown, another blackbird starts singing a beautiful song, \"as it always does,\" indicating that life goes on.\n\nVelthuijs first published \"Frog and the Birdsong\" in 1991 with Leopold, a Dutch publisher of children's books. It won the 1992 \"Gouden Griffel\", one of the most significant Dutch prizes for children's books, and was a runner-up for the companion award for illustrations, the \"Gouden Penseel\". By 2003, it was in its fourteenth printing. The book was digitized by the Digital Library for Dutch Literature and is available online. It is translated into English and published by Andersen Press.\n\nChildren often first encounter death in animals, and many children's books have used animal characters to explain death since that helps to create a certain distance which children consider less threatening, according to Nicholas Tucker in \"The Child and the Book\". \"Frog and the Birdsong\" takes the reader through the rituals associated with death and ends on an optimistic note with the resumption of normalcy, symbolized by the birdsong. The book is suggested by many educational specialists as recommended reading for children to acquaint them with death, as reading material and as classroom prompts for activities.\n\nIn Dutch schools it has found frequent use in the classroom. In \"Pondering: 49 philosophical questions from children\", \"Frog and the Birdsong\" is the selected reading for a group session on what it means to be dead. It is frequently suggested to prompt children to discuss death and their feelings about it, even in a school for deaf children, accompanied by sign language. In a school for special education the book is also used in memorial services.\n\n"}
{"id": "369302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369302", "title": "Gemini 9A", "text": "Gemini 9A\n\nGemini 9A (officially Gemini IX-A) was a 1966 manned spaceflight in NASA's Gemini program. It was the seventh manned Gemini flight, the 13th manned American flight and the 23rd spaceflight of all time (includes X-15 flights over ). The original crew for Gemini 9, command pilot Elliot See and pilot Charles Bassett, were killed in a crash on February 28, 1966 while flying a T-38 jet trainer to the McDonnell Aircraft plant in St. Louis, Missouri to inspect their spacecraft. Their deaths promoted the backup crew, Thomas P. Stafford and Eugene Cernan, to the prime crew. The mission was renamed Gemini 9A after the original May 17 launch was scrubbed when the mission's Agena Target Vehicle was destroyed after a launch failure. The mission was flown June 3–6, 1966, after launch of the backup Augmented Target Docking Adaptor (ATDA). Stafford and Cernan rendezvoused with the ATDA, but were unable to dock with it because the nose fairing failed to eject from the docking target due to a launch preparation error. Cernan performed a two-hour extravehicular activity, during which it was planned for him to demonstrate free flight in a self-contained rocket pack, the Astronaut Maneuvering Unit. He was unable to accomplish this due to stress, fatigue, and overheating.\n\nOn February 28, 1966, See and Bassett were flying from Texas to inspect the Gemini 9 spacecraft at the McDonnell Aircraft plant in St. Louis, Missouri. The conditions at Lambert Field were poor and, as a consequence, in attempting a visual approach and landing, See hit one of the assembly buildings of the factory and caused the aircraft to crash, killing himself and Bassett instantly. As a consequence, the backup crew was promoted to prime crew, the first time this had occurred since the flight of Mercury-Atlas 7 in 1962.\nThe promotion of Stafford and Cernan from backup to prime crew meant that a new backup crew was required. Jim Lovell and Buzz Aldrin were originally the backup crew for Gemini 10. This is significant as the standard crew rotation meant that a spot on the backup crew of Gemini 10 would have placed Buzz Aldrin on the prime crew of the non-existent mission after Gemini 12 (the crew rotation usually meant that after serving on a backup crew, an astronaut could expect to skip two missions and then be on a prime crew). Being moved up to the backup crew of Gemini 9 meant that Aldrin flew as part of the prime crew on Gemini 12, which played a major part in his selection for the Apollo 8 backup and Apollo 11 prime crews, ultimately making him the second man on the Moon.\n\n\n\n\nThe first mission objective was to dock with an Agena Target Vehicle, as had first been achieved on the Gemini 8 mission. Accomplishment was not possible because of a launch preparation error on the target vehicle.\n\nA second objective was a planned extravehicular activity (EVA), or \"space walk\", by the right-hand seat Pilot. The plan was for him to move to the rear of the spacecraft and strap himself into the Air Force's Astronaut Maneuvering Unit (AMU), a 'rocket pack' which would allow the pilot controlled flight, independent of the capsule's life support system. Use of the AMU was not achieved due to Cernan experiencing high cardiac stress, overheating, and fatigue during EVA.\n\nA third objective was to carry out seven scientific experiments, including a medical experiment which measured the astronauts' reactions to stress by measuring the intake and output of fluids before, during and after the flight.\n\nGemini 9's Agena Target Vehicle (ATV) was launched on May 17, 1966 on an Atlas launch vehicle. The Atlas malfunctioned in flight and the ATV failed to reach orbit. This forced the cancellation (\"scrubbing\") of the Gemini 9 launch scheduled for later that morning.\n\nThe Augmented Target Docking Adapter (ATDA) had been designed for use as a contingency for the ATV, which had failed during the original Gemini 6 launch. Built by Gemini spacecraft manufacturer McDonnell Aircraft Corporation, the ATDA replaced the Agena rocket with the reentry control section of a Gemini. It was built using already tested equipment, and successfully launched on June 1, 1966 into a orbit using the Atlas SLV-3 rocket.\n\nBecause the ADTA had no propulsion system of its own, the launch necessitated an extended Atlas sustainer burn--while SECO would normally take place at T+300 seconds, it was extended to T+348 seconds. A sustainer burn this long had never been attempted in almost 300 Atlas launches to date--a double-sized lubricant oil tank was used to ensure enough oil for turbopump operation. The experiment worked and sustainer performance during the extended burn phase was uneventful. The vernier solo phase lasted another 18 seconds and ADTA separation occurred at T+383 seconds.\n\nAfter launch, telemetry indicated that the launch shroud had failed to open properly.\n\nReplanning the mission to accommodate the May 17 ATV failure forced the redesignation of the Gemini mission as \"Gemini 9A\", the same as had happened to the original Gemini 6 mission on October 25, 1965. The first launch attempt was scheduled to occur shortly after the ATDA launch. But at T-3 minutes, the ground computers lost contact with the Gemini computers for an unknown reason, and the 40 second launch window opened and closed without launch. This earned Tom Stafford the title of \"Mayor of Pad 19\".\n\nThe second launch attempt on June 3 went perfectly, with the spacecraft entering into orbit. With this launch, Stafford could say that he had been strapped into a spacecraft six times for only 2 launches.\n\nLaunch vehicle performance was very close to nominal. Two small roll transients were evident at liftoff and pogo effects were the lowest yet recorded on a Gemini launch.\n\nStafford made the first thruster burn 49 minutes after launch, to add to their speed, raising their perigee from . An hour and 35 minutes later, Stafford corrected phase, height, and out-of-plane errors by pointing the spacecraft 40° down, and 3° to the left. Fifty-one seconds later, he fired the thrusters again to add to their speed and put them into a orbit, closing at on the ATDA.\n\nThe first radar contact with the target registered a distance of away and they had a solid lock at . Their first visual sighting came 3 hours and 20 minutes into the mission, when they were away. They noted that they could see the flashing strobe lights on the ATDA, designed to aid identification from a distance. This made them hope that the launch shroud had in fact been jettisoned and that the telemetry was wrong.\n\nAs they got closer, they found the ATDA to be in a slow rotation, with the conical nose shroud still attached, the two pieces hanging agape at the front like a giant, open jaw. Stafford described \"It looks like an angry alligator out here rotating around\". He asked if maybe he could use the spacecraft to open the 'jaws' but the ground decided against it, fearing this might cause damage to the spacecraft.\nThe crew described how the shroud's explosive bolts had fired but, because the quick disconnect lanyards that were designed to unlock the electrical connectors to the explosive bolts had not been hooked up, the electrical wiring to the bolts held the two 1-1/2 inch wide steel shroud retaining bands together. If the electrical wires were cut on one side of the shroud, the two steel bands would immediately straighten and, being still held together by the wires on the opposite side of the shroud, it was difficult to predict the path of the released bands. Their ability to rip open a space suit caused the salvage mission to be abandoned. At the Cape, backup pilot Buzz Aldrin suggested that Cernan cut the electric wires with surgical scissors from the equipment pack. An experiment on the ground demonstrated this could indeed slice the wires, but also showed the ATDA bristled with dangerous, sharp edges. Ground controllers were, in Deke Slayton's words, \"just aghast\" at the idea, which did not take into consideration the substantial risks of the energy in the released shroud retaining bands holding the shroud halves together, the constant spinning of the ATDA, or the fact that the released shroud retaining bands, might whip back, and puncture Cernan's spacesuit.\n\nThe reason for the lanyards' condition was soon discovered: Douglas built the shroud to be attached to the Agena second stage, but the Air Force decided at the last minute that Atlas could achieve the desired orbit without NASA's second stage. This dropped NASA out of the launch and meant that the ATDA and fairing would be installed directly on Atlas—not Agena—and by a McDonnell crew instead of the normal Lockheed crew.\n\nNASA had contracted the Douglas engineer to witness, inspect and sign off on the fairing installation on the Agena second stage, but because Agena would not be used, McDonnell personnel would now install the fairing with which they were unfamiliar and they refused to permit the Douglas engineer on the gantry, over the protests of the engineer and NASA personnel, saying that it was a simple structure and they did not need any help. On launch day, the McDonnell crew followed procedures published by Lockheed, which had been copied from Douglas documents. The instructions said, \"See blueprint,\" but the Lockheed drawing was not used. The Douglas technician who normally hooked up the lanyards knew what to do with the loose ends, even without the blueprint, but he was not permitted on the gantry. The strangers fixing the ATDA's shroud looked at the dangling straps, wondered what to do with them, and taped them under the small fairings that protected the explosive bolts. After the launch, the Douglas engineer, with the help of Lockheed, set up a backup fairing and demonstrated the problem to McDonnell personnel and to George Mueller, NASA's Office of Manned Space Flight administrator.\n\nThe crew then did some planned rendezvous practice that involved them moving away from the ATDA by firing their thrusters and then practicing approaching from below the target. They then got some much needed food and rest.\n\nDuring the flight, neither astronaut had much time to eat due to the busy schedule or to document their food consumption, it could not be determined how much of the difficulties Cernan experienced during the EVA were due to insufficient caloric intake. Approximately half the food supply was eaten and the crew did not register any complaints about its quality during postflight debriefings.\n\nOn the second day of the mission, they again approached the ATDA, this time from above. Once they were stationkeeping alongside, they were given permission for their EVA, but they were tired and Stafford did not want to waste fuel keeping himself near the ATDA during the EVA when there was little they could do with it. It was decided to postpone the EVA until the third day.\n\nOn the third day, Cernan began the EVA, which proved to be troubled from the start. After pumping up his pressure suit to three and one half pounds of pressure per square inch, \"the suit took on a life of its own and became so stiff that it didn't want to bend at all.\" He struggled to move inside his stiff suit. As soon as he left the spacecraft, he began tumbling uncontrollably, which was not helped by his umbilical which moved wildly and gave Cernan difficulty in controlling his movements. He eventually made it back to the hatch area.\n\nCernan was scheduled to test the Astronaut Maneuvering Unit (AMU), with its own propulsion, stabilization system, oxygen and telemetry for biomedical data and systems. It used hydrogen peroxide for propellant, and because it produced extremely hot gases, Cernan's spacesuit was modified with \"pants\" made of woven steel known as \"Chromel-R,\" which was later used on the gloves and Moon walking boots on Apollo spacesuits. This material was developed by the Air Force Systems Command for use in high-temperature deceleration devices for aerospace systems.\n\nCernan began the slow climb to the rear of the spacecraft, where the AMU was stored. While he was disconnecting himself from the capsule umbilical and hooking up to the backpack, his heart rate rose to about 155 beats per minute. He later described his spacesuit as having \"all the flexibility of a rusty suit of armor\", which made everything take much longer than expected. The lack of hand and foot holds also made him unable to gain any leverage, which made it hard to turn valves or even to perform any basic movements. While making the connections, Cernan became very tired. During this portion of the EVA, his pulse soared to about 180 beats per minute; the flight surgeon on the ground feared he would lose consciousness. As he sweated, his visor began to fog. He rubbed his nose against the visor to clear a spot so he could see.\" After making all the necessary connections, Cernan rested for a few minutes while Mission Control decided whether or not to proceed with the AMU test.\n\nAt this point Cernan decided that there was considerable risk in continuing the EVA. He had poor visibility from within his spacesuit and had found that he could not move very well. He would have to disconnect himself from the umbilical that attached him to the Gemini (though would still be attached by a longer thinner lead), after he had connected himself to the AMU. But when he had finished with the AMU he would somehow have to remove it with one hand, while the other held onto the spacecraft. Cernan, while physically exhausted, wanted to proceed, but Stafford called an end to the proceedings and ordered Cernan back inside before getting a chance to fly the AMU. He managed to move himself back to the cockpit and Stafford held onto his legs to give him a rest and assist Cernan in getting back into the spacecraft. After trying to remove a mirror mounted to the side of the spacecraft, his suit cooling system overheated and his face plate fogged up completely, denying him any vision. Cernan also felt excruciating pain as he moved back into his seat, as his suit was still fully pressurized and he had to move down far enough inside the spacecraft for the hatch to close. He and Stafford managed to get the hatch closed and the cabin repressurized. Cernan had spent 128 minutes outside the spacecraft.\n\nThe Gemini spacesuit was cooled by air. When an astronaut had an increased work load he began to sweat, and in the confined space of a suit, the cooling system would become overwhelmed and the visor would fog. The astronaut would then be effectively blind because he had no way of wiping off the faceplate. In future Gemini EVAs, the work loads of the astronauts were reduced, but it was clear that during lunar exploration, workloads could be significant and changes were made to ensure that the Apollo EVA suit would be water cooled. This was accomplished by having the astronaut wear a garment that contained many thin tubes that circulated water near the skin. It was very effective and there were very few cases where astronauts used the \"High\" Cooling selection, even though they were working hard on the Moon's surface in sunlight.\n\nThe EVA suit did not have any temperature probes in it; these had been removed to make room for additional ELSS equipment and thus no data regarding the temperature inside the suit during the EVA were available--Cernan reported that the back of the suit was very hot. Postflight examination found a tear in the suit insulation which could have allowed high temperature buildups.\n\nStafford has said in a 2001 interview that there was a real concern that Cernan would not be able to get back into the capsule. As it would not have been acceptable for Stafford to cut Cernan loose in orbit, he stated that the plan was to make re-entry with the astronaut still attached by his umbilical. However, such an action would have resulted in the deaths of both men.\n\nAs a result of Cernan's experience, the AMU never again flew on Gemini, as it was not essential to developing technology for the Apollo Moon landing mission. Maneuvering units were not tested in space until February 1984, when a modified version called the Manned Maneuvering Unit (MMU) was flown by astronaut Bruce McCandless on Space Shuttle mission STS-41-B. The MMU used nitrogen gas propellant, which remains cold when vented.\n\nThere were two photography experiments. S-1 hoped to image the Zodiacal light during an EVA, but this was changed to inside the spacecraft after the problems encountered by Cernan. And S-11 involved the astronauts trying to image the Earth's airglow in the atomic oxygen and sodium light spectra. They took 44 pictures as part of this experiment with three being of actual airglow.\n\nS-10 had hoped to retrieve a Micrometeorite Collector from the ATDA, though this failed after they were unable to dock with it. They were able to image it though during their close approaches. Instead they were able to recover the collector from the Gemini spacecraft (S-12). D-12 also failed as it was an investigation of controlling the AMU.\n\nThe last experiment was D-14 which was UHF/VHF Polarization. This was an extendable antenna mounted on the adapter section at the rear of the spacecraft. It was hoped to obtain information about communication through the ionosphere. Six trials of this were performed but the antenna was broken by Cernan during his EVA.\n\nThe day of the EVA was also their last in space. On their 45th revolution of the Earth, the crewmen fired the retro-rockets that slowed them down so that they would reenter. This time the computer worked perfectly, meaning they landed only 700 meters from the planned landing site and were close enough to see the prime recovery ship, USS \"Wasp\". The splashdown happened closer to the recovery ship than any other manned spacecraft.\n\nPostflight medical examination found that Stafford had lost five pounds of weight and Cernan up to 13 pounds. The latter exhibited several physiological conditions relating to his EVA experience, including exhaustion and slight reduction in breathing intake.\n\nAfter the mission it was decided to set up a Mission Review committee to make sure that the objectives planned for each mission were realistic and that they had a direct benefit for Apollo.\n\nThe Gemini 9A mission was supported by 11,301 personnel, 92 aircraft and 15 ships from the U.S. Department of Defense.\n\nThe Gemini 9 patch is in the shape of a shield and shows the Gemini spacecraft docked to the Agena. There is a spacewalking astronaut, with his tether forming the shape of a number 9. Although the Gemini 9 mission was changed to use the ATDA, the patch was not changed.\n\nThe spacecraft is on display at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Center, Florida.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12891", "title": "Gene therapy", "text": "Gene therapy\n\nIn the medicine field, gene therapy (also called human gene transfer) is the therapeutic delivery of nucleic acid into a patient's cells as a drug to treat disease. The first attempt at modifying human DNA was performed in 1980 by Martin Cline, but the first successful nuclear gene transfer in humans, approved by the National Institutes of Health, was performed in May 1989. The first therapeutic use of gene transfer as well as the first direct insertion of human DNA into the nuclear genome was performed by French Anderson in a trial starting in September 1990.\n\nBetween 1989 and February 2016, over 2,300 clinical trials were conducted, with more than half of them in phase I.\n\nNot all medical procedures that introduce alterations to a patient's genetic makeup can be considered gene therapy. Bone marrow transplantation and organ transplants in general have been found to introduce foreign DNA into patients. Gene therapy is defined by the precision of the procedure and the intention of direct therapeutic effect.\n\nGene therapy was conceptualized in 1972, by authors who urged caution before commencing human gene therapy studies.\n\nThe first attempt, an unsuccessful one, at gene therapy (as well as the first case of medical transfer of foreign genes into humans not counting organ transplantation) was performed by Martin Cline on 10 July 1980. Cline claimed that one of the genes in his patients was active six months later, though he never published this data or had it verified and even if he is correct, it's unlikely it produced any significant beneficial effects treating beta-thalassemia.\n\nAfter extensive research on animals throughout the 1980s and a 1989 bacterial gene tagging trial on humans, the first gene therapy widely accepted as a success was demonstrated in a trial that started on 14 September 1990, when Ashi DeSilva was treated for ADA-SCID.\n\nThe first somatic treatment that produced a permanent genetic change was performed in 1993.\n\nGene therapy is a way to fix a genetic problem at its source. The polymers are either translated into proteins, interfere with target gene expression, or possibly correct genetic mutations.\n\nThe most common form uses DNA that encodes a functional, therapeutic gene to replace a mutated gene. The polymer molecule is packaged within a \"vector\", which carries the molecule inside cells.\n\nEarly clinical failures led to dismissals of gene therapy. Clinical successes since 2006 regained researchers' attention, although , it was still largely an experimental technique. These include treatment of retinal diseases Leber's congenital amaurosis and choroideremia, X-linked SCID, ADA-SCID, adrenoleukodystrophy, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), multiple myeloma, haemophilia, and Parkinson's disease. Between 2013 and April 2014, US companies invested over $600 million in the field.\n\nThe first commercial gene therapy, Gendicine, was approved in China in 2003 for the treatment of certain cancers. In 2011 Neovasculgen was registered in Russia as the first-in-class gene-therapy drug for treatment of peripheral artery disease, including critical limb ischemia.\nIn 2012 Glybera, a treatment for a rare inherited disorder, became the first treatment to be approved for clinical use in either Europe or the United States after its endorsement by the European Commission.\n\nFollowing early advances in genetic engineering of bacteria, cells, and small animals, scientists started considering how to apply it to medicine. Two main approaches were considered – replacing or disrupting defective genes. Scientists focused on diseases caused by single-gene defects, such as cystic fibrosis, haemophilia, muscular dystrophy, thalassemia, and sickle cell anemia. Glybera treats one such disease, caused by a defect in lipoprotein lipase.\n\nDNA must be administered, reach the damaged cells, enter the cell and either express or disrupt a protein. Multiple delivery techniques have been explored. The initial approach incorporated DNA into an engineered virus to deliver the DNA into a chromosome. Naked DNA approaches have also been explored, especially in the context of vaccine development.\n\nGenerally, efforts focused on administering a gene that causes a needed protein to be expressed. More recently, increased understanding of nuclease function has led to more direct DNA editing, using techniques such as zinc finger nucleases and CRISPR. The vector incorporates genes into chromosomes. The expressed nucleases then knock out and replace genes in the chromosome. these approaches involve removing cells from patients, editing a chromosome and returning the transformed cells to patients.\n\nGene editing is a potential approach to alter the human genome to treat genetic diseases, viral diseases, and cancer. these approaches were still years from being medicine.\n\nGene therapy may be classified into two types:\n\nIn somatic cell gene therapy (SCGT), the therapeutic genes are transferred into any cell other than a gamete, germ cell, gametocyte, or undifferentiated stem cell. Any such modifications affect the individual patient only, and are not inherited by offspring. Somatic gene therapy represents mainstream basic and clinical research, in which therapeutic DNA (either integrated in the genome or as an external episome or plasmid) is used to treat disease.\n\nOver 600 clinical trials utilizing SCGT are underway in the US. Most focus on severe genetic disorders, including immunodeficiencies, haemophilia, thalassaemia, and cystic fibrosis. Such single gene disorders are good candidates for somatic cell therapy. The complete correction of a genetic disorder or the replacement of multiple genes is not yet possible. Only a few of the trials are in the advanced stages. \n\nIn germline gene therapy (GGT), germ cells (sperm or egg cells) are modified by the introduction of functional genes into their genomes. Modifying a germ cell causes all the organism's cells to contain the modified gene. The change is therefore heritable and passed on to later generations. Australia, Canada, Germany, Israel, Switzerland, and the Netherlands prohibit GGT for application in human beings, for technical and ethical reasons, including insufficient knowledge about possible risks to future generations and higher risks versus SCGT. The US has no federal controls specifically addressing human genetic modification (beyond FDA regulations for therapies in general).\n\nThe delivery of DNA into cells can be accomplished by multiple methods. The two major classes are recombinant viruses (sometimes called biological nanoparticles or viral vectors) and naked DNA or DNA complexes (non-viral methods).\n\nIn order to replicate, viruses introduce their genetic material into the host cell, tricking the host's cellular machinery into using it as blueprints for viral proteins. Retroviruses go a stage further by having their genetic material copied into the genome of the host cell. Scientists exploit this by substituting a virus's genetic material with therapeutic DNA. (The term 'DNA' may be an oversimplification, as some viruses contain RNA, and gene therapy could take this form as well.) A number of viruses have been used for human gene therapy, including retroviruses, adenoviruses, herpes simplex, vaccinia, and adeno-associated virus. Like the genetic material (DNA or RNA) in viruses, therapeutic DNA can be designed to simply serve as a temporary blueprint that is degraded naturally or (at least theoretically) to enter the host's genome, becoming a permanent part of the host's DNA in infected cells.\n\nNon-viral methods present certain advantages over viral methods, such as large scale production and low host immunogenicity. However, non-viral methods initially produced lower levels of transfection and gene expression, and thus lower therapeutic efficacy. Later technology remedied this deficiency.\n\nMethods for non-viral gene therapy include the injection of naked DNA, electroporation, the gene gun, sonoporation, magnetofection, the use of oligonucleotides, lipoplexes, dendrimers, and inorganic nanoparticles.\n\nSome of the unsolved problems include:\n\nThree patients' deaths have been reported in gene therapy trials, putting the field under close scrutiny. The first was that of Jesse Gelsinger, who died in 1999 because of immune rejection response. One X-SCID patient died of leukemia in 2003. In 2007, a rheumatoid arthritis patient died from an infection; the subsequent investigation concluded that the death was not related to gene therapy.\n\nIn 1972 Friedmann and Roblin authored a paper in \"Science\" titled \"Gene therapy for human genetic disease?\" Rogers (1970) was cited for proposing that \"exogenous good DNA\" be used to replace the defective DNA in those who suffer from genetic defects.\n\nIn 1984 a retrovirus vector system was designed that could efficiently insert foreign genes into mammalian chromosomes.\n\nThe first approved gene therapy clinical research in the US took place on 14 September 1990, at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), under the direction of William French Anderson. Four-year-old Ashanti DeSilva received treatment for a genetic defect that left her with ADA-SCID, a severe immune system deficiency. The defective gene of the patient's blood cells was replaced by the functional variant. Ashanti’s immune system was partially restored by the therapy. Production of the missing enzyme was temporarily stimulated, but the new cells with functional genes were not generated. She led a normal life only with the regular injections performed every two months. The effects were successful, but temporary.\n\nCancer gene therapy was introduced in 1992/93 (Trojan et al. 1993). The treatment of glioblastoma multiforme, the malignant brain tumor whose outcome is always fatal, was done using a vector expressing antisense IGF-I RNA (clinical trial approved by NIH protocolno.1602 November 24, 1993, and by the FDA in 1994). This therapy also represents the beginning of cancer immunogene therapy, a treatment which proves to be effective due to the anti-tumor mechanism of IGF-I antisense, which is related to strong immune and apoptotic phenomena.\n\nIn 1992 Claudio Bordignon, working at the Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, performed the first gene therapy procedure using hematopoietic stem cells as vectors to deliver genes intended to correct hereditary diseases. In 2002 this work led to the publication of the first successful gene therapy treatment for adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-SCID). The success of a multi-center trial for treating children with SCID (severe combined immune deficiency or \"bubble boy\" disease) from 2000 and 2002, was questioned when two of the ten children treated at the trial's Paris center developed a leukemia-like condition. Clinical trials were halted temporarily in 2002, but resumed after regulatory review of the protocol in the US, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, and Germany.\n\nIn 1993 Andrew Gobea was born with SCID following prenatal genetic screening. Blood was removed from his mother's placenta and umbilical cord immediately after birth, to acquire stem cells. The allele that codes for adenosine deaminase (ADA) was obtained and inserted into a retrovirus. Retroviruses and stem cells were mixed, after which the viruses inserted the gene into the stem cell chromosomes. Stem cells containing the working ADA gene were injected into Andrew's blood. Injections of the ADA enzyme were also given weekly. For four years T cells (white blood cells), produced by stem cells, made ADA enzymes using the ADA gene. After four years more treatment was needed.\n\nJesse Gelsinger's death in 1999 impeded gene therapy research in the US. As a result, the FDA suspended several clinical trials pending the reevaluation of ethical and procedural practices.\n\nThe modified cancer gene therapy strategy of antisense IGF-I RNA (NIH n˚ 1602) using antisense / triple helix anti-IGF-I approach was registered in 2002 by Wiley gene therapy clinical trial - n˚ 635 and 636. The approach has shown promising results in the treatment of six different malignant tumors: glioblastoma, cancers of liver, colon, prostate, uterus, and ovary (Collaborative NATO Science Programme on Gene Therapy USA, France, Poland n˚ LST 980517 conducted by J. Trojan) (Trojan et al., 2012). This anti-gene antisense/triple helix therapy has proven to be efficient, due to the mechanism stopping simultaneously IGF-I expression on translation and transcription levels, strengthening anti-tumor immune and apoptotic phenomena.\n\nSickle-cell disease can be treated in mice. The mice – which have essentially the same defect that causes human cases – used a viral vector to induce production of fetal hemoglobin (HbF), which normally ceases to be produced shortly after birth. In humans, the use of hydroxyurea to stimulate the production of HbF temporarily alleviates sickle cell symptoms. The researchers demonstrated this treatment to be a more permanent means to increase therapeutic HbF production.\n\nA new gene therapy approach repaired errors in messenger RNA derived from defective genes. This technique has the potential to treat thalassaemia, cystic fibrosis and some cancers.\n\nResearchers created liposomes 25 nanometers across that can carry therapeutic DNA through pores in the nuclear membrane.\n\nIn 2003 a research team inserted genes into the brain for the first time. They used liposomes coated in a polymer called polyethylene glycol, which unlike viral vectors, are small enough to cross the blood–brain barrier.\n\nShort pieces of double-stranded RNA (short, interfering RNAs or siRNAs) are used by cells to degrade RNA of a particular sequence. If a siRNA is designed to match the RNA copied from a faulty gene, then the abnormal protein product of that gene will not be produced.\n\nGendicine is a cancer gene therapy that delivers the tumor suppressor gene p53 using an engineered adenovirus. In 2003, it was approved in China for the treatment of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.\n\nIn March researchers announced the successful use of gene therapy to treat two adult patients for X-linked chronic granulomatous disease, a disease which affects myeloid cells and damages the immune system. The study is the first to show that gene therapy can treat the myeloid system.\n\nIn May a team reported a way to prevent the immune system from rejecting a newly delivered gene. Similar to organ transplantation, gene therapy has been plagued by this problem. The immune system normally recognizes the new gene as foreign and rejects the cells carrying it. The research utilized a newly uncovered network of genes regulated by molecules known as microRNAs. This natural function selectively obscured their therapeutic gene in immune system cells and protected it from discovery. Mice infected with the gene containing an immune-cell microRNA target sequence did not reject the gene.\n\nIn August scientists successfully treated metastatic melanoma in two patients using killer T cells genetically retargeted to attack the cancer cells.\n\nIn November researchers reported on the use of VRX496, a gene-based immunotherapy for the treatment of HIV that uses a lentiviral vector to deliver an antisense gene against the HIV envelope. In a phase I clinical trial, five subjects with chronic HIV infection who had failed to respond to at least two antiretroviral regimens were treated. A single intravenous infusion of autologous CD4 T cells genetically modified with VRX496 was well tolerated. All patients had stable or decreased viral load; four of the five patients had stable or increased CD4 T cell counts. All five patients had stable or increased immune response to HIV antigens and other pathogens. This was the first evaluation of a lentiviral vector administered in a US human clinical trial.\n\nIn May researchers announced the first gene therapy trial for inherited retinal disease. The first operation was carried out on a 23-year-old British male, Robert Johnson, in early 2007.\n\nLeber's congenital amaurosis is an inherited blinding disease caused by mutations in the RPE65 gene. The results of a small clinical trial in children were published in April. Delivery of recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) carrying RPE65 yielded positive results. In May two more groups reported positive results in independent clinical trials using gene therapy to treat the condition. In all three clinical trials, patients recovered functional vision without apparent side-effects.\n\nIn September researchers were able to give trichromatic vision to squirrel monkeys. In November 2009, researchers halted a fatal genetic disorder called adrenoleukodystrophy in two children using a lentivirus vector to deliver a functioning version of ABCD1, the gene that is mutated in the disorder.\n\nAn April paper reported that gene therapy addressed achromatopsia (color blindness) in dogs by targeting cone photoreceptors. Cone function and day vision were restored for at least 33 months in two young specimens. The therapy was less efficient for older dogs.\n\nIn September it was announced that an 18-year-old male patient in France with beta-thalassemia major had been successfully treated. Beta-thalassemia major is an inherited blood disease in which beta haemoglobin is missing and patients are dependent on regular lifelong blood transfusions. The technique used a lentiviral vector to transduce the human ß-globin gene into purified blood and marrow cells obtained from the patient in June 2007. The patient's haemoglobin levels were stable at 9 to 10 g/dL. About a third of the hemoglobin contained the form introduced by the viral vector and blood transfusions were not needed. Further clinical trials were planned. Bone marrow transplants are the only cure for thalassemia, but 75% of patients do not find a matching donor.\n\nCancer immunogene therapy using modified antigene, antisense/triple helix approach was introduced in South America in 2010/11 in La Sabana University, Bogota (Ethical Committee 14 December 2010, no P-004-10). Considering the ethical aspect of gene diagnostic and gene therapy targeting IGF-I, the IGF-I expressing tumors i.e. lung and epidermis cancers were treated (Trojan et al. 2016).\n\nIn 2007 and 2008, a man (Timothy Ray Brown) was cured of HIV by repeated hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (see also allogeneic stem cell transplantation, allogeneic bone marrow transplantation, allotransplantation) with double-delta-32 mutation which disables the CCR5 receptor. This cure was accepted by the medical community in 2011. It required complete ablation of existing bone marrow, which is very debilitating.\n\nIn August two of three subjects of a pilot study were confirmed to have been cured from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The therapy used genetically modified T cells to attack cells that expressed the CD19 protein to fight the disease. In 2013, the researchers announced that 26 of 59 patients had achieved complete remission and the original patient had remained tumor-free.\n\nHuman HGF plasmid DNA therapy of cardiomyocytes is being examined as a potential treatment for coronary artery disease as well as treatment for the damage that occurs to the heart after myocardial infarction.\n\nIn 2011 Neovasculgen was registered in Russia as the first-in-class gene-therapy drug for treatment of peripheral artery disease, including critical limb ischemia; it delivers the gene encoding for VEGF. Neovasculogen is a plasmid encoding the CMV promoter and the 165 amino acid form of VEGF.\n\nThe FDA approved Phase 1 clinical trials on thalassemia major patients in the US for 10 participants in July. The study was expected to continue until 2015.\n\nIn July 2012, the European Medicines Agency recommended approval of a gene therapy treatment for the first time in either Europe or the United States. The treatment used Alipogene tiparvovec (Glybera) to compensate for lipoprotein lipase deficiency, which can cause severe pancreatitis. The recommendation was endorsed by the European Commission in November 2012 and commercial rollout began in late 2014. Alipogene tiparvovec was expected to cost around $1.6 million per treatment in 2012, revised to $1 million in 2015, making it the most expensive medicine in the world at the time. , only one person had been treated with drug.\n\nIn December 2012, it was reported that 10 of 13 patients with multiple myeloma were in remission \"or very close to it\" three months after being injected with a treatment involving genetically engineered T cells to target proteins NY-ESO-1 and LAGE-1, which exist only on cancerous myeloma cells.\n\nIn March researchers reported that three of five adult subjects who had acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) had been in remission for five months to two years after being treated with genetically modified T cells which attacked cells with CD19 genes on their surface, i.e. all B-cells, cancerous or not. The researchers believed that the patients' immune systems would make normal T-cells and B-cells after a couple of months. They were also given bone marrow. One patient relapsed and died and one died of a blood clot unrelated to the disease.\n\nFollowing encouraging Phase 1 trials, in April, researchers announced they were starting Phase 2 clinical trials (called CUPID2 and SERCA-LVAD) on 250 patients at several hospitals to combat heart disease. The therapy was designed to increase the levels of SERCA2, a protein in heart muscles, improving muscle function. The FDA granted this a Breakthrough Therapy Designation to accelerate the trial and approval process. In 2016 it was reported that no improvement was found from the CUPID 2 trial.\n\nIn July researchers reported promising results for six children with two severe hereditary diseases had been treated with a partially deactivated lentivirus to replace a faulty gene and after 7–32 months. Three of the children had metachromatic leukodystrophy, which causes children to lose cognitive and motor skills. The other children had Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, which leaves them to open to infection, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Follow up trials with gene therapy on another six children with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome were also reported as promising.\n\nIn October researchers reported that two children born with adenosine deaminase severe combined immunodeficiency disease (ADA-SCID) had been treated with genetically engineered stem cells 18 months previously and that their immune systems were showing signs of full recovery. Another three children were making progress. In 2014 a further 18 children with ADA-SCID were cured by gene therapy. ADA-SCID children have no functioning immune system and are sometimes known as \"bubble children.\"\n\nAlso in October researchers reported that they had treated six hemophilia sufferers in early 2011 using an adeno-associated virus. Over two years later all six were producing clotting factor.\n\nIn January researchers reported that six choroideremia patients had been treated with adeno-associated virus with a copy of REP1. Over a six-month to two-year period all had improved their sight. By 2016, 32 patients had been treated with positive results and researchers were hopeful the treatment would be long-lasting. Choroideremia is an inherited genetic eye disease with no approved treatment, leading to loss of sight.\n\nIn March researchers reported that 12 HIV patients had been treated since 2009 in a trial with a genetically engineered virus with a rare mutation (CCR5 deficiency) known to protect against HIV with promising results.\n\nClinical trials of gene therapy for sickle cell disease were started in 2014. There is a need for high quality randomised controlled trials assessing the risks and benefits involved with gene therapy for people with sickle cell disease.\n\nIn February LentiGlobin BB305, a gene therapy treatment undergoing clinical trials for treatment of beta thalassemia gained FDA \"breakthrough\" status after several patients were able to forgo the frequent blood transfusions usually required to treat the disease.\n\nIn March researchers delivered a recombinant gene encoding a broadly neutralizing antibody into monkeys infected with simian HIV; the monkeys' cells produced the antibody, which cleared them of HIV. The technique is named immunoprophylaxis by gene transfer (IGT). Animal tests for antibodies to ebola, malaria, influenza, and hepatitis were underway.\n\nIn March, scientists, including an inventor of CRISPR, Jennifer Doudna, urged a worldwide moratorium on germline gene therapy, writing \"scientists should avoid even attempting, in lax jurisdictions, germline genome modification for clinical application in humans\" until the full implications \"are discussed among scientific and governmental organizations\".\n\nIn October, researchers announced that they had treated a baby girl, Layla Richards, with an experimental treatment using donor T-cells genetically engineered using TALEN to attack cancer cells. One year after the treatment she was still free of her cancer (a highly aggressive form of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia [ALL]). Children with highly aggressive ALL normally have a very poor prognosis and Layla's disease had been regarded as terminal before the treatment.\n\nIn December, scientists of major world academies called for a moratorium on inheritable human genome edits, including those related to CRISPR-Cas9 technologies but that basic research including embryo gene editing should continue.\n\nIn April the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency endorsed a gene therapy treatment called Strimvelis and the European Commission approved it in June. This treats children born with adenosine deaminase deficiency and who have no functioning immune system. This was the second gene therapy treatment to be approved in Europe.\n\nIn October, Chinese scientists reported they had started a trial to genetically modify T-cells from 10 adult patients with lung cancer and reinject the modified T-cells back into their bodies to attack the cancer cells. The T-cells had the PD-1 protein (which stops or slows the immune response) removed using CRISPR-Cas9.\n\nA 2016 Cochrane systematic review looking at data from four trials on topical cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene therapy does not support its clinical use as a mist inhaled into the lungs to treat cystic fibrosis patients with lung infections. One of the four trials did find weak evidence that liposome-based CFTR gene transfer therapy may lead to a small respiratory improvement for people with CF. This weak evidence is not enough to make a clinical recommendation for routine CFTR gene therapy.\n\nIn February Kite Pharma announced results from a clinical trial of CAR-T cells in around a hundred people with advanced Non-Hodgkin lymphoma.\n\nIn March, French scientists reported on clinical research of gene therapy to treat sickle-cell disease.\n\nIn August, the FDA approved tisagenlecleucel for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Tisagenlecleucel is an adoptive cell transfer therapy for B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia; T cells from a person with cancer are removed, genetically engineered to make a specific T-cell receptor (a chimeric T cell receptor, or \"CAR-T\") that reacts to the cancer, and are administered back to the person. The T cells are engineered to target a protein called CD19 that is common on B cells. This is the first form of gene therapy to be approved in the United States. In October, a similar therapy called axicabtagene ciloleucel was approved for non-Hodgkin lymphoma.\n\nIn December the results of using an adeno-associated virus with blood clotting factor VIII to treat nine haemophilia A patients were published. Six of the seven patients on the high dose regime increased the level of the blood clotting VIII to normal levels. The low and medium dose regimes had no effect on the patient's blood clotting levels.\n\nIn December, the FDA approved Luxturna, the first \"in vivo\" gene therapy, for the treatment of blindness due to Leber's congenital amaurosis. The price of this treatment was 850,000 US dollars for both eyes.\n\nSpeculated uses for gene therapy include:\nAthletes might adopt gene therapy technologies to improve their performance. Gene doping is not known to occur, but multiple gene therapies may have such effects. Kayser et al. argue that gene doping could level the playing field if all athletes receive equal access. Critics claim that any therapeutic intervention for non-therapeutic/enhancement purposes compromises the ethical foundations of medicine and sports.\n\nGenetic engineering could be used to cure diseases, but also to change physical appearance, metabolism, and even improve physical capabilities and mental faculties such as memory and intelligence. Ethical claims about germline engineering include beliefs that every fetus has a right to remain genetically unmodified, that parents hold the right to genetically modify their offspring, and that every child has the right to be born free of preventable diseases. For parents, genetic engineering could be seen as another child enhancement technique to add to diet, exercise, education, training, cosmetics, and plastic surgery. Another theorist claims that moral concerns limit but do not prohibit germline engineering.\n\nPossible regulatory schemes include a complete ban, provision to everyone, or professional self-regulation. The American Medical Association’s Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs stated that \"genetic interventions to enhance traits should be considered permissible only in severely restricted situations: (1) clear and meaningful benefits to the fetus or child; (2) no trade-off with other characteristics or traits; and (3) equal access to the genetic technology, irrespective of income or other socioeconomic characteristics.\"\n\nAs early in the history of biotechnology as 1990, there have been scientists opposed to attempts to modify the human germline using these new tools, and such concerns have continued as technology progressed. With the advent of new techniques like CRISPR, in March 2015 a group of scientists urged a worldwide moratorium on clinical use of gene editing technologies to edit the human genome in a way that can be inherited. In April 2015, researchers sparked controversy when they reported results of basic research to edit the DNA of non-viable human embryos using CRISPR. A committee of the American National Academy of Sciences and National Academy of Medicine gave qualified support to human genome editing in 2017 once answers have been found to safety and efficiency problems \"but only for serious conditions under stringent oversight.\"\n\nRegulations covering genetic modification are part of general guidelines about human-involved biomedical research. There are no international treaties which are legally binding in this area, but there are recommendations for national laws from various bodies.\n\nThe Helsinki Declaration (Ethical Principles for Medical Research Involving Human Subjects) was amended by the World Medical Association's General Assembly in 2008. This document provides principles physicians and researchers must consider when involving humans as research subjects. The Statement on Gene Therapy Research initiated by the Human Genome Organization (HUGO) in 2001 provides a legal baseline for all countries. HUGO’s document emphasizes human freedom and adherence to human rights, and offers recommendations for somatic gene therapy, including the importance of recognizing public concerns about such research.\n\nNo federal legislation lays out protocols or restrictions about human genetic engineering. This subject is governed by overlapping regulations from local and federal agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA and NIH's Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee. Researchers seeking federal funds for an investigational new drug application, (commonly the case for somatic human genetic engineering,) must obey international and federal guidelines for the protection of human subjects.\n\nNIH serves as the main gene therapy regulator for federally funded research. Privately funded research is advised to follow these regulations. NIH provides funding for research that develops or enhances genetic engineering techniques and to evaluate the ethics and quality in current research. The NIH maintains a mandatory registry of human genetic engineering research protocols that includes all federally funded projects.\n\nAn NIH advisory committee published a set of guidelines on gene manipulation. The guidelines discuss lab safety as well as human test subjects and various experimental types that involve genetic changes. Several sections specifically pertain to human genetic engineering, including Section III-C-1. This section describes required review processes and other aspects when seeking approval to begin clinical research involving genetic transfer into a human patient. The protocol for a gene therapy clinical trial must be approved by the NIH's Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee prior to any clinical trial beginning; this is different from any other kind of clinical trial.\nAs with other kinds of drugs, the FDA regulates the quality and safety of gene therapy products and supervises how these products are used clinically. Therapeutic alteration of the human genome falls under the same regulatory requirements as any other medical treatment. Research involving human subjects, such as clinical trials, must be reviewed and approved by the FDA and an Institutional Review Board.\n\nGene therapy is the basis for the plotline of the film \"I Am Legend\" and the TV show \"Will Gene Therapy Change the Human Race?\". In 1994, gene therapy was a plot element in \"The Erlenmeyer Flask\", the first season finale of \"The X-Files\"; it is also used in \"Stargate\" as a means of allowing humans to use Ancient technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "6557455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6557455", "title": "Herry Monster", "text": "Herry Monster\n\nHerry Monster is a \"Sesame Street\" Muppet, performed by Jerry Nelson (1970-2003), Tyler Bunch (2013), and Peter Linz (2017-present).\n\nThe first Herry puppet appeared in the second season, with Jerry Nelson performing the character since day one, though Jim Henson filled in for one segment. He had a furry nose that matched the rest of his body and was hard to distinguish. Because of this, a new puppet was quickly built with a smooth blue nose. Herry got his signature purple nose for the third season. The original Herry puppet was rebuilt into the Big Bad Wolf.\n\nHerry's gruff voice was patterned after that of Jimmy Durante. He is larger than Cookie Monster or Grover, is a lighter blue than either of them, and has a purple, bean-shaped nose. In book appearances and on merchandise, he usually wears red-and-white-striped pants, but his pants are omitted on television.\n\nHis close friends on Sesame Street include Grover, Cookie Monster, Kermit the Frog, and Bert and Ernie. He made recurring appearances alongside all of them, especially the monsters. For most of the 1970s, they were the three main monsters on the show. His parents and grandmother have appeared on the street. He also has a baby sister, but she has only appeared in books.\n\nHerry is a very talented athlete, well known for his feats of strength. He is often seen playing baseball and lifting weights. He doesn't know his own strength, and in earlier seasons, he would clumsily break things simply by handling them. Unlike a stereotypical jock, however, he is quite gentle and sensitive. He loves playing with his little sister, and has a stuffed doll named Hercules. At one point, he had a baby doll named Elizabeth.\n\nHerry's roles on the show have been varied. He sang in many songs on \"Sesame Street\" (solos, duets, and group numbers), was perhaps the most frequent actor in Prairie Dawn's plays, and also starred in a few \"Monsterpiece Theater\" sketches. He hosted a Sesame Street video entitled Monster Hits!. He appeared in several \"Muppet & Kid Moments\" in the early years. In Season 30, he finally got his own recurring sketch entitled \"Monsters in Day Care\" (a variant of \"Muppet & Kid Moments\").\n\nHerry has been one of Jerry Nelson's main characters on \"Sesame Street\" for more than three decades. But in 2004, Nelson, citing health reasons, would limit his performing and focus most of his time on his most famous character The Count. Because of this, Herry is no longer a major character on the show. However, he still made occasional minor appearances, such as the 35th anniversary special \"The Street We Live On\", We Are Family Foundation, the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, the 2007 special \"Elmo's Christmas Countdown\", and a cameo in a season 40 episode (puppeteered by Jerry Nelson). One year after Nelson's death, Herry, as portrayed by Tyler Bunch, appeared and sang in \"Just One Person\" at \"From Broadway With Love: A Benefit Concert For Sandy Hook\", on January 28, 2013. In 2017, when Sesame Street made the \"Spread Kidness, Share the Laughter\" campaign to encourage fans to share jokes and tag others to tell another one, Herry Monster was portrayed by Peter Linz who has continued to do Herry Monster ever since.\n"}
{"id": "25598011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25598011", "title": "Herschel Bullen", "text": "Herschel Bullen\n\nHerschel Bullen (November 13, 1870 – 1966) was a businessman, politician and leader in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) in Logan, Utah.\n\nBullen was born in Richmond, Utah. He graduated from the University of Deseret (now the University of Utah) in 1890 and then worked as a farmer and school teacher in both Richmond and later Lewiston, Utah. Bulen served an LDS mission in England from 1894 to 1897. Shortly before leaving he had married Mary Hendricks.\n\nBullen helped form the \"Logan Republican\", a newspaper with political leaning towards the Republican Party, in 1903. From 1900 to 1904 Bullen was the president of the Logan School board. In 1906 he was elected to the Utah State Senate, serving from 1907 to 1910. He also was a professor at Brigham Young College in Logan for a time. In 1928 Bulen served as a delegate to the Republican National Convention.\n\nBullen was also involved in land development, organizing the Promontory-Curlew Land Company along with Joseph Howell and David Eccles. This company owned of land in Box Elder County, Utah and Malad County, Idaho on which they encouraged settlers to engage in dry farming. He was the secretary and treasurer of the company until it disbanded in 1959.\n\nBullen was a member of the board of trustees of Utah State University from 1949 to 1953.\n\nBullen's half-brother Roy Bullen was a mayor of Logan. Herschel's son Reed Bullen served in the Utah State Senate, representing the same district as his father.\n\n"}
{"id": "1303219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303219", "title": "Holism in science", "text": "Holism in science\n\nHolism in science, or holistic science, is an approach to research that emphasizes the study of complex systems. Systems are approached as coherent wholes whose component parts are best understood in context and in relation to one another and to the whole. This practice is in contrast to a purely analytic tradition (sometimes called reductionism) which aims to gain understanding of systems by dividing them into smaller composing elements and gaining understanding of the system through understanding their elemental properties. The holism-reductionism dichotomy is often evident in conflicting interpretations of experimental findings and in setting priorities for future research.\n\nDavid Deutsch calls holism anti-reductionist and refers to the concept as thinking the only legitimate way to think about science is as a series of emergent, or higher level phenomena. He argues that neither approach is purely correct.\n\nTwo aspects of Holism are:\n\n\nHolistic science is naturally suited to subjects such as ecology, biology, physics and the social sciences, where complex, non-linear interactions are the norm. These are systems where emergent properties arise at the level of the whole that cannot be predicted by focusing on the parts alone, which may make mainstream, reductionist science ill-equipped to provide understanding beyond a certain level. This principle of emergence in complex systems is often captured in the phrase ′the whole is greater than the sum of its parts′. Living organisms are an example: no knowledge of all the chemical and physical properties of matter can explain or predict the functioning of living organisms. The same happens in complex social human systems, where detailed understanding of individual behaviour cannot predict the behaviour of the group, which emerges at the level of the collective. The phenomenon of emergence may impose a theoretical limit on knowledge available through reductionist methodology, arguably making complex systems natural subjects for holistic approaches.\n\nScience journalist John Horgan has expressed this view in the book \"The End of Science\". He wrote that a certain pervasive model within holistic science, self-organized criticality, for example, \"is not really a theory at all. Like punctuated equilibrium, self-organized criticality is merely a description, one of many, of the random fluctuations, the noise, permeating nature.\" By the theorists' own admissions, he said, such a model \"can generate neither specific predictions about nature nor meaningful insights. What good is it, then?\"\n\nOne of the reasons that holistic science attracts supporters is that it seems to offer a progressive, 'socio-ecological' view of the world, but Alan Marshall's book \"The Unity of Nature\" offers evidence to the contrary; suggesting holism in science is not 'ecological' or 'socially-responsive' at all, but regressive and repressive.\n\nPermaculture takes a systems level approach to agriculture and land management by attempting to copy what happens in the natural world. Holistic management), integrates ecology and social sciences with food production. It was originally designed as a way to reverse desertification. Organic farming is sometimes considered a holistic approach.\n\nRichard Healey offered a modal interpretation and used it to present a model account of the puzzling correlations which portrays them as resulting from the operation of a process that violates both spatial and spatiotemporal separability. He argued that, on this interpretation, the nonseparability of the process is a consequence of physical property holism; and that the resulting account yields genuine understanding of how the correlations come about without any violation of relativity theory or Local Action. Subsequent work by Clifton, Dickson and Myrvold cast doubt on whether the account can be squared with relativity theory’s requirement of Lorentz invariance but leaves no doubt of an spatially entangled holism in the theory. Paul Davies and John Gribbin further observe that Wheeler's delayed choice experiment shows how the quantum world displays a sort of holism in time as well as space.\n\nIn the holistic approach of David Bohm, any collection of quantum objects constitutes an indivisible whole within an implicate and explicate order. Bohm said there is no scientific evidence to support the dominant view that the universe consists of a huge, finite number of minute particles, and offered in its stead a view of undivided wholeness: \"ultimately, the entire universe (with all its 'particles', including those constituting human beings, their laboratories, observing instruments, etc.) has to be understood as a single undivided whole, in which analysis into separately and independently existent parts has no fundamental status\".\n\nIn the latter half of the 20th century, holism led to systems thinking and its derivatives. Systems in biology, psychology, or sociology are frequently so complex that their behavior is, or appears, \"new\" or \"emergent\": it cannot be deduced from the properties of the elements alone. Holism has thus been used as a catchword. This contributed to the resistance encountered by the scientific interpretation of holism, which insists that there are ontological reasons that prevent reductive models in principle from providing efficient algorithms for prediction of system behavior in certain classes of systems.\n\nScientific holism holds that the behavior of a system cannot be perfectly predicted, no matter how much data is available. Natural systems can produce surprisingly unexpected behavior, and it is suspected that behavior of such systems might be computationally irreducible, which means it would not be possible to even approximate the system state without a full simulation of all the events occurring in the system. Key properties of the higher level behavior of certain classes of systems may be mediated by rare \"surprises\" in the behavior of their elements due to the principle of interconnectivity, thus evading predictions except by brute force simulation.\n\nJohn Muir, a Scottish born early American conservationist, wrote \"When we try to pick out anything by itself we find it hitched to everything else in the Universe\". As such, holistic thinking is often applied to ecology, combining biological, chemical, physical, economic, ethical, and political insights. The complexity grows with the area, so that it is necessary to reduce the characteristic of the view in other ways, for example to a specific time of duration.\n\nIn primary care the term \"holistic,\" has been used to describe approaches that take into account social considerations and other intuitive judgements. The term holism, and so-called approaches, appear in psychosomatic medicine in the 1970s, when they were considered one possible way to conceptualize psychosomatic phenomena. Instead of charting one-way causal links from psyche to soma, or vice versa, it aimed at a systemic model, where multiple biological, psychological and social factors were seen as interlinked.\n\nOther, alternative approaches in the 1970s were psychosomatic and somatopsychic approaches, which concentrated on causal links only from psyche to soma, or from soma to psyche, respectively. At present it is commonplace in psychosomatic medicine to state that psyche and soma cannot really be separated for practical or theoretical purposes.\n\nThe term systems medicine first appeared in 1992 and takes an integrative approach to all of the body and environment.\n\nA lively debate has run since the end of the 19th century regarding the functional organization of the brain. The holistic tradition (e.g., Pierre Marie) maintained that the brain was a homogeneous organ with no specific subparts whereas the localizationists (e.g., Paul Broca) argued that the brain was organized in functionally distinct cortical areas which were each specialized to process a given type of information or implement specific mental operations. The controversy was epitomized with the existence of a language area in the brain, nowadays known as the Broca's area.\n\nArchitecture is often argued by design academics and those practicing in design to be a holistic enterprise. Used in this context, holism tends to imply an all-inclusive design perspective. This trait is considered exclusive to architecture, distinct from other professions involved in design projects.\n\nSome economists use a causal holism theory in their work. That is they view the discipline in the manner of Ludwig Wittgenstein and claim that it can't be defined by necessary and sufficient conditions.\n\nThe Taxonomy of Educational Objectives identifies many levels of cognitive functioning, which can be used to create a more holistic education. In authentic assessment, rather than using computers to score multiple choice tests, a standards based assessment uses trained scorers to score open-response items using holistic scoring methods. In projects such as the North Carolina Writing Project, scorers are instructed not to count errors, or count numbers of points or supporting statements. The scorer is instead instructed to judge holistically whether \"as a whole\" is it more a \"2\" or a \"3\". Critics question whether such a process can be as objective as computer scoring, and the degree to which such scoring methods can result in different scores from different scorers.\n\nThere is an ongoing dispute as to whether anthropology is intrinsically holistic. Supporters of this concept consider anthropology holistic in two senses. First, it is concerned with all human beings across times and places, and with all dimensions of humanity (evolutionary, biophysical, sociopolitical, economic, cultural, psychological, etc.) Further, many academic programs following this approach take a \"four-field\" approach to anthropology that encompasses physical anthropology, archeology, linguistics, and cultural anthropology or social anthropology.\n\nSome leading anthropologists disagree, and consider anthropological holism to be an artifact from 19th century social evolutionary thought that inappropriately imposes scientific positivism upon cultural anthropology.\n\nThe term \"holism\" is additionally used within social and cultural anthropology to refer to an analysis of a society as a whole which refuses to break society into component parts. One definition says: \"as a methodological ideal, holism implies ... that one does not permit oneself to believe that our own established institutional boundaries (e.g. between politics, sexuality, religion, economics) necessarily may be found also in foreign societies.\"\n\nA major holist movement in the early twentieth century was gestalt psychology. The claim was that perception is not an aggregation of atomic sense data but a field, in which there is a figure and a ground. Background has holistic effects on the perceived figure. Gestalt psychologists included Wolfgang Koehler, Max Wertheimer, Kurt Koffka. Koehler claimed the perceptual fields corresponded to electrical fields in the brain. Karl Lashley did experiments with gold foil pieces inserted in monkey brains purporting to show that such fields did not exist. However, many of the perceptual illusions and visual phenomena exhibited by the gestaltists were taken over (often without credit) by later perceptual psychologists. Gestalt psychology had influence on Fritz Perls' gestalt therapy, although some old-line gestaltists opposed the association with counter-cultural and New Age trends later associated with gestalt therapy. Gestalt theory was also influential on phenomenology. Aron Gurwitsch wrote on the role of the field of consciousness in gestalt theory in relation to phenomenology. Maurice Merleau-Ponty made much use of holistic psychologists such as work of Kurt Goldstein in his \"Phenomenology of Perception.\"\n\nAlfred Adler believed that the individual (an integrated whole expressed through a self-consistent unity of thinking, feeling, and action, moving toward an unconscious, fictional final goal), must be understood within the larger wholes of society, from the groups to which he belongs (starting with his face-to-face relationships), to the larger whole of mankind. The recognition of our social embeddedness and the need for developing an interest in the welfare of others, as well as a respect for nature, is at the heart of Adler's philosophy of living and principles of psychotherapy.\n\nEdgar Morin, the French philosopher and sociologist, can be considered a holist based on the transdisciplinary nature of his work.\n\nMel Levine, M.D., author of \"A Mind at a Time\", and co-founder (with Charles R. Schwab) of the not-for-profit organization All Kinds of Minds, can be considered a holist based on his view of the 'whole child' as a product of many systems and his work supporting the educational needs of children through the management of a child's educational profile as a whole rather than isolated weaknesses in that profile.\n\nAccording to skeptics, the phrase \"holistic science\" is often misused by pseudosciences. In the book \"Science and Pseudoscience in Clinical Psychology\" it's noted that \"Proponents of pseudoscientific claims, especially in organic medicine, and mental health, often resort to the \"mantra of holism\" to explain away negative findings. When invoking the mantra, they typically maintain that scientific claims can be evaluated only within the context of broader claims and therefore cannot be evaluated in isolation.\" This is an invocation of Karl Popper's demarcation problem and in a posting to \"Ask a Philosopher\" Massimo Pigliucci clarifies Popper by positing, \"Instead of thinking of science as making progress by inductive generalization (which doesn’t work because no matter how many times a given theory may have been confirmed thus far, it is always possible that new, contrary, data will emerge tomorrow), we should say that science makes progress by conclusively disconfirming theories that are, in fact, wrong.\"\n\nVictor J. Stenger states that \"holistic healing is associated with the rejection of classical, Newtonian physics. Yet, holistic healing retains many ideas from eighteenth and nineteenth century physics. Its proponents are blissfully unaware that these ideas, especially superluminal holism, have been rejected by modern physics as well\".\n\nSome quantum mystics interpret the wave function of quantum mechanics as a vibration in a holistic ether that pervades the universe and wave function collapse as the result of some cosmic consciousness. This is a misinterpretation of the effects of quantum entanglement as a violation of relativistic causality and quantum field theory.\n\nSchumacher College in the UK, offers an MSc degree program in Holistic Science\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21038435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21038435", "title": "John Dunn (cricketer)", "text": "John Dunn (cricketer)\n\nJohn Dunn (8 June 1862 – 10 October 1892) was an English first-class cricketer who played with Surrey and the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC). He also played cricket for Hong Kong later in his career.\n\nDunn was educated at Harrow School and played his cricket as an amateur. A right-handed batsman, he made four first-class appearances for Surrey in 1881 and two for the MCC the following year. Although he was used as a specialist batsman he struggled in his matches, except for an innings of 38 not out which he made when playing with Surrey against Kent at Mote Park. His only other first-class match was for the Gentlemen of England, whom he represented against I Zingari in 1889.\n\nAfter serving as a cadet at the Royal Military College at Sandhurst, Dunn joined the Liverpool Regiment in 1882 and was promoted to the rank of captain seven years later. In 1889 he was posted to Hong Kong with the Army Service Corps and began playing cricket for the UK territory.\n\nHe represented the Hong Kong cricket team in Interport matches, during 1891 and 1892. In a match against Shanghai which Hong Kong hosted, Dunn scored 107 to help his team win by an innings and 123 runs. Later that year in October, Hong Kong played an away match against Shanghai and travelled home on the SS Bokhara, which sank in a typhoon off the coast of Formosa. Dunn was killed along with ten of his teammates.\n"}
{"id": "153265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153265", "title": "John I of Castile", "text": "John I of Castile\n\nJohn I (; 24 August 1358 – 9 October 1390) was King of the Crown of Castile from 1379 until 1390. He was the son of Henry II and of his wife Juana Manuel of Castile. He was the last monarch of Castile to receive a formal coronation.\n\nHis first marriage, to Eleanor of Aragon on 18 June 1375, produced his only known issue : \n\nIn 1379, John I formed the short lived military order of the Order of the Pigeon, known for its large feasts which included eating the organization's namesake, the pigeon.\n\nHe ransomed Leon V of the House of Lusignan, the last Latin king of the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia, from the Mamluks and out of pity granted him the lifetime lordship of Madrid, Villa Real and Andújar in 1383.\n\nHe engaged in hostilities with Portugal; his first quarrel with the Portuguese was settled in 1382, and later, on 14 May 1383, he married Beatrice of Portugal, daughter of King Ferdinand I of Portugal. On the death of his father-in-law (22 October 1383), John endeavoured to enforce the claims of his wife, Ferdinand's only child, to the crown of Portugal. The 1383-1385 Crisis, a period of civil unrest and anarchy in Portugal, followed. He was resisted by supporters of his rival for the throne, John I of Portugal, and was utterly defeated at the battle of Aljubarrota, on 14 August 1385.\n\nHe also had to contend with the hostility of John of Gaunt, 1st Duke of Lancaster, who claimed the crown of Castile by right of his wife Constance, the eldest daughter of Peter of Castile. The king of Castile finally bought off the claim of his English competitor by arranging a marriage in 1388 between his son Henry and Catherine, daughter of Constance and John of Gaunt, as part of the treaty ratified at Bayonne.\n\nAt the beginning of 1383, the political situation in Portugal was volatile. Beatrice was the only child of King Ferdinand I of Portugal, and heir to the throne, after her younger brothers' deaths in 1380 and 1382. Her marriage was the political issue of the day, and inside the palace, factions lobbied constantly. Ferdinand arranged and canceled his daughter's wedding several times before settling for his wife's first choice, King John I of Castile. John had lost his wife, Infanta Eleanor of Aragon the year before, and was happy to wed the Portuguese heiress. The wedding took place on 17 May at the Cathedral of Badajoz. Beatrice was only ten years old.\n\nKing Ferdinand died soon thereafter, on 22 October 1383. According to the treaty between Castile and Portugal, the Queen Mother, Leonor Telles de Menezes, declared herself Regent in the name of her daughter and son-in-law. The assumption of the regency by the queen was badly received in many Portuguese cities; Leonor was considered a treasonous interloper who intended to usurp the Portuguese crown for Castile and end Portugal's independence. At the request of John I of Castile, when he had knowledge of his father-in-law's decease, Leonor ordered the acclaim of Beatrice, although John I of Castile hadn't expressly recognized her as the Regent. This was ordered first in Lisbon, Santarém and other important places, and some days after the assassination of Count Andeiro, in all the country. The national rebellion led by the Master of the Order of Aviz, the future John I, began immediately, leading to the 1383-1385 Crisis.\nKing John of Castile invaded Portugal in the end of December 1383, to enforce his claim to be king by right of his wife. The consequent war was effectively ended in 1385, with the defeat of Castile in the Battle of Aljubarrota on 14 August. In the aftermath of this battle, John of Aviz became the uncontested King of Portugal. John of Castile and Beatrice no longer had a tenable claim to the throne of Portugal, but during the lifetime of John I of Castile, they continued to call themselves king and queen of Portugal.\nTo secure the succession of the throne of Portugal, the Portuguese Cortes on 2 April 1383 in Salvaterra de Magos covenanted marriage between Beatrice and John I of Castile, with the stipulation that upon the death of Ferdinand I, with no issue of sons, the crown would pass to Beatrice, and her husband become titular king of Portugal. Although John I of Castile could call himself king of Portugal, the Spanish and Portuguese parties agreed not to unite the kingdoms of Castile and Portugal, and therefore, Leonor, widow of King Ferdinand, would remain regent of the government of Portugal until Beatrice had a son who upon reaching fourteen years of age would assume the title and office of King of Portugal, and his parents' claim cease. If Beatrice died childless, the crown would pass to other hypothetical younger sisters, and if not, the crown would pass to John I of Castile, and through him to his son Henry, thus disinheriting the line of Inês de Castro. Pedro de Luna, a Papal legate to the realms of Castile, Aragon, Portugal and Navarre, pronounced the betrothal in Elvas on 14 May, and the wedding ceremony took place on 17 May at the Cathedral of Badajoz. To ensure compliance with the treaty, on 22 May a group of Castilian knights and prelates of the kingdom swore an oath to depose their king if the Castilian king dishonoured the commitments agreed in the treaty, and a corresponding group of Portuguese knights and prelates vowed to do the same if the king of Portugal broke the treaty with Castile, among them the Master of Aviz.\n\nKing Ferdinand I of Portugal had died on 22 October 1383. His widow, Leonor Telles de Menezes, under the Treaty of Salvaterra de Magos and by the previous testament of the deceased king, declared herself Regent in the name of her daughter and son-in-law. From then onwards, Leonor ruled with her lover, João Fernandes Andeiro, second Count of Ourém, also called \"Conde Andeiro\", a Galician who had been Fernando's chancellor, which angered the nobility and the lower classes. The news of the death of Ferdinand came to John I and Beatrice in Torrijos, with the closing of the court in Segovia. The Master of Aviz wrote John, urging him to seize the Portuguese crown by right of his wife, and the Master himself would assume the regency. To avoid problems with John the Infante of Portugal, the dynastic eldest son of Inês de Castro, John I had him and his brother Dinís imprisoned in the Alcazar of Toledo. King John I then met the Council in Montalbán and sent Alfonso Lopez de Tejada with instructions for the regent, now Queen Mother, to proclaim Beatrice and himself the rulers of Portugal. The proclamation was announced, first in Lisbon, Santarém and other important places, and then, some days after the assassination of Count Andeiro, in all the country. Yet in Lisbon and elsewhere, as in Elvas and Santarém, popular sentiment favoured John the Infante.\nJohn I of Castile assumed the title and coat of arms of King of Portugal, which investiture was recognized by the Pope of Avignon, and ordered the deployment of his troops when the Bishop of Guarda and chancellor to Beatrice, Afonso Correia, promised to deliver the support of the people. He then entered the country with his wife to ensure the obedience of the Portuguese people to him as King by the right of his wife, although they considered him merely a pretender.\n\nFor John I of Castile, his marriage to Beatrice was supposed to maintain a protectorate over the Portuguese territory and prevent the English from invading the peninsula. However, the expectation of a Spanish commercial monopoly, fear of Castilian rule and the loss of Portuguese independence, reinforced by popular opposition to the regent and her allies, led to an uprising in Lisbon in late November and early December. The loss of independence was unthinkable for the majority of the people. The Master of Aviz, future John I of Portugal, ignited the rebellion when he broke into the royal palace on 6 December 1383 and assassinated Leonor's lover, Conde Andeiro, after which the common people rose up against the government at the instigation of Alvaro Pais. The Bishop Martinho Anes, under suspicion of conspiring with the enemy, was thrown from the north tower of the Lisbon Cathedral when Lisbon was besieged by the Castilians in 1383. The uprising spread to the provinces, taking the lives of the abbess of the Benedictine nuns in Évora, the Prior of the Collegiate Church of Guimarães, and Lançarote Pessanha, Admiral of Portugal, who was murdered at the Castle of Beja. The rebellion was supported by the bourgeoisie but not by the aristocracy. Queen Leonor fled with the court of Lisbon and took refuge in Alenquer, the property of the queens of Portugal. She appealed to John I of Castile for help.\nIn Lisbon, Alvaro Pais proposed that he and Leonor marry and hold the regency together, but Leonor declined; upon the news of the coming of the Castilian king, the Master of Aviz was elected Regent and Defender of the Realm on 16 December 1383, as an advocate for the rights of the queen's son, the Infante Juan. The distinguished jurist João das Regras was appointed as chancellor and the brilliant general Nuno Álvares Pereira as constable; immediately England was requested to intervene. The Master of Aviz tried to besiege Leonor at Alenquer but fled to Santarém to prepare the defense of Lisbon. In Santarém, Leonor proceeded to raise an army and sought help from John I of Castile, who decided to take command of the situation in Portugal, and left a Regency Council consisting of the Marquis of Villena, the Archbishop of Toledo and the Steward of the King to rule Castile in his absence. In January 1384 he began the journey to Santarém with Beatrice to answer the call of the Queen Regent to restore order in Portugal. On 13 January King John I and Queen Beatrice obtained the waiver of the rule and the government in their favour, which caused many knights and castle lords to submit and swear allegiance to the royal couple. Since Leonor had conspired against John the Infante, she was sent to the monastery of Tordesillas. This served the purposes of the Master of Aviz to justify his leading the revolt; he had violated the oath he swore at the Treaty of Salvaterra de Magos.\n\nAlthough most of the Portuguese aristocracy was loyal to his cause, King John I of Castile did not repeat the Castilian successes of the earlier Fernandine Wars (\"Guerras Fernandinas\") and failed to win Coimbra and Lisbon. On 3 September 1384, he left garrisons manned by his supporters among the people, and returned to Castile and sought help from the King of France. Meanwhile, the Master of Aviz tried to seize those places loyal to his adversaries, and even took Almada and Alenquer, but failed to take Cintra, Torres-Velhas (Torres Vedras) and Torres Novas. In March 1385 he went to Coimbra, to which he had summoned the Portuguese Cortes; they declared Beatrice illegitimate and proclaimed the Master of Aviz to be King of Portugal as John I on 11 April. This was in effect a declaration of war against Castile and its claims to the Portuguese throne. Recovering from his recent defeats, the new monarch began his campaign to regain the northern kingdom, and took Viana do Castelo, Braga and Guimarães.\n\nJohn I of Castile, accompanied by allied French cavalry, then entered Portugal again by way of Ciudad Rodrigo and Celorico in July 1385 to conquer Lisbon and remove John I from the Portuguese throne, but the disastrous defeats suffered by his army in Trancoso and at the Battle of Aljubarrota in May and August 1385 had ended any possibility of his reigning as king of Portugal. He fled to Santarém and from there down the Tagus to meet the fleet near Lisbon. In September the Spanish fleet returned to Castile, and John I of Portugal gained control of the places formerly occupied by his adversaries. Advancing from Santarém, he seized the region north of the Duero whose knights had remained faithful to Beatrice and John I of Castile: Villareal Pavões, Chaves and Bragança capitulated at the end of March 1386, and Almeida in early June 1386.\n\nQueen Beatrice had no children with her husband John I of Castile, although a son called Miguel is mentioned in several genealogies written much later and even in some modern history books. There is no contemporary document mentioning him, and his supposed mother was only 10 or 11 years old at his reputed birth. It is most probably a confusion with a grandchild of the Catholic Monarchs who was called Miguel da Paz.\n\nKing John was killed at Alcalá on 9 October 1390, when he fell off his horse while riding in a fantasia with some of the light horsemen known as \"farfanes\", who were mounted and equipped in the Arab style. \nHis death was kept secret by Cardinal Pedro Tenorio for days who claimed he was only wounded. Since his son Henry III was still a minor at the time, a regency was set up to rule in his place. \nAfter his death, the body of John I was transferred to the city of Toledo for burial. His tomb is in the Chapel of the New Monarchs \"(La Capilla de los Reyes Nuevos)\" of the Cathedral of Toledo in Spain.\n"}
{"id": "827016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827016", "title": "Lazarus taxon", "text": "Lazarus taxon\n\nIn paleontology, a Lazarus taxon (plural \"taxa\") is a taxon that disappears for one or more periods from the fossil record, only to appear again later. Likewise in conservation biology and ecology, it can refer to species or populations that were thought to be extinct, and are rediscovered. The term Lazarus taxon was coined by Karl W. Flessa; & David Jablonski in 1983 and was then expanded by Jablonski in 1986. Wignall and Benton defined Lazarus taxon as, ‘At times of biotic crisis many taxa go extinct, but others only temporarily disappeared from the fossil record, often for intervals measured in millions of years, before reappearing unchanged’. Earlier work also supports the concept though without using the name Lazarus taxon, like work by Christopher R. C. Paul.\n\nThe term refers to the story in the Christian biblical Gospel of John, in which Jesus Christ raised Lazarus from the dead.\n\nLazarus taxa are observational artifacts that appear to occur either because of (local) extinction, later resupplied, or as a sampling artifact. The fossil record is inherently sporadic (only a very small fraction of organisms become fossilized, and an even smaller fraction are discovered before destruction) and contains gaps not necessarily caused by extinction, particularly when the number of individuals in a taxon is very low.\n\nAfter mass extinctions, such as the Permian–Triassic extinction event, the Lazarus effect occurred for many taxa. However, there appears to be no link with the abundance of fossiliferous sites and the proportion of Lazarus taxa, and no missing taxa have been found in potential refuges. Therefore, reappearance of Lazarus taxa probably reflects the rebound after a period of extreme rarity during the aftermath of such extinctions.\n\nAn Elvis taxon is a look-alike that has supplanted an extinct taxon through convergent evolution.\n\nA zombie taxon is a taxon that contains specimens that have been collected from strata younger than the extinction of the taxon. Later such fossils turn out to be freed from the original seam and refossilized in a younger sediment. For example, a trilobite that gets eroded out of its Cambrian-aged limestone matrix, and reworked into Miocene-aged siltstone.\n\nA living fossil is an extant taxon that appears to have changed so little compared with fossil remains, that it is considered identical. Living fossils may occur regularly in the fossil record, such as the lampshell \"Lingula\", though the living species in this genus are not identical to fossil brachiopods.\n\nOther living fossils however are also Lazarus taxa if these have been missing from the fossil record for substantial periods of time, such as applies for coelacanths.\n\nFinally, the term \"Lazarus species\" is applied to organisms that have been rediscovered as being still alive after having been widely considered extinct for years, without ever having appeared in the fossil record. In this last case, the term Lazarus taxon is applied in neontology.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBecause the definition of a Lazarus taxon is ambiguous, some like R. B. Rickards, do not agree with the existence of a Lazarus taxon.\n\nRickards and Wright questioned the usefulness of the concept of a Lazarus taxon. They wrote in \"Lazarus taxa, refugia and relict faunas: evidence from graptolites\" that anyone could argue that any gap in the fossil record could potentially be considered a Lazarus eﬀect because the duration required for the Lazarus eﬀect is not deﬁned. They believed accurate plotting of biodiversity changes and species abundance through time, coupled with an appraisal of their palaeobiogeography was more important than using this title to categorize species.\n\nThe lack of public engagement around environmental issue has led conservationists to attempt newer communication strategies. One of them is the focus on positive messages, of which Lazarus species are an important part One conservation outreach project that has focused exclusively on species rediscoveries is the Lost & Found project which aims to tell the stories of species once thought extinct but that were subsequently rediscovered.\n\n"}
{"id": "4844778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4844778", "title": "Luitpold, Margrave of Bavaria", "text": "Luitpold, Margrave of Bavaria\n\nLuitpold (or Liutpold) (modern \"Leopold\") (died 4 July 907), perhaps of the Huosi family or related to the Carolingian dynasty by Liutswind, mother of Emperor Arnulf of Carinthia, was the ancestor of the Luitpolding dynasty which ruled Bavaria and Carinthia until the mid-tenth century. \n\nIn 893, he was appointed margrave in the March of Carinthia and Upper Pannonia by Arnulf of Carinthia, then King of East Francia. Luitpold succeeded the deposed Margrave Engelschalk II of the Wilhelminer family; unlike his predecessors he could extend his power unimpeded by the mighty Margrave Aribo, acquiring numerous counties in Carinthia as well as on the Danube and in the Nordgau around Regensburg from 895 on, and setting himself up as the most prominent of Bavaria's aristocracy. Though he thereby laid the foundations of the renewed stem duchy, it was his son Arnulf the Bad who, based on his father's acquisitions, first assumed the title of a Bavarian duke.\n\nAs Luitpold remained a loyal supporter of the Carolingian monarch Arnulf of Carinthia and his son Louis the Child, he enjoyed their support and was entrusted with the defence at the Hungarian and Moravian borders. In 898 he fought successfully against Mojmír II, the king of Great Moravia, on behalf of the king's rebellious brother Svatopluk II and forced Mojmír to become a vassal of Arnulf. In 903, Luitpold held the title of a \"dux Boemanorum\", \"Duke in Bohemia\". He organised the Frankish defence against the Magyars under Grand Prince Árpád after invading Hungary, on 4 July 907 was killed east of Vienna in the Battle of Pressburg.\n\nLuitpold married Cunigunde of Swabia, daughter of Berthold I, royal Count palatine in Swabia, and sister of Duke Erchanger of Swabia, a member of the Ahalolfing dynasty. After Luitpold's death Cunigunda married King Conrad I of Germany in 913. Luitpold had two sons by her: \nFrom his descendants' titles, Luitpold is often called a duke of Bavaria or margrave of Bavaria, the latter title being more accurate to his actual status.\n\n239\n"}
{"id": "4444306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4444306", "title": "Marbled meat", "text": "Marbled meat\n\nMarbled meat is meat, especially red meat, that contains various amounts of intramuscular fat, giving it an appearance similar to a marble pattern. \n\nMarbling can be influenced by selective breeding. Cattle breeds such as Angus, Herefords, Murray Grey, Shorthorns, and Wagyu, also British White cattle and dairy breeds, such as the Jersey, Holstein-Friesian, and \"Braunvieh\" have higher marbling scores on average versus other cattle such as Simmentals, Charolais, or Chianina. \n\nMarbling can also be influenced by time on feed, and type of feed, and relative feed value of feedstuffs. The longer cattle are fed a high-energy diet, the better chance they will grade higher on quality scores, but will have much lower yield grades (percentage of carcass lean to fat ratio). Feeding a high amount of cereal grains, such as corn or barley, will change the color of the carcass fat from a yellowish to a white and increase the chance of obtaining a higher quality grade, according to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).\n\nVeal has little to no marbling since young cattle develop subcutaneous fat first, kidney, pelvic and heart (KPH) fat second, intermuscular (between the muscle, or \"seam fat\") third and then intramuscular fat - \"marbling\" - last.\n\nBeef quality grades - A quality grade is a composite evaluation of factors that affect palatability of meat (tenderness, juiciness, and flavor). These factors include carcass maturity, firmness, texture, and color of lean, and the amount and distribution of marbling within the lean. Beef carcass quality grading is based on (1) degree of marbling and (2) degree of maturity.\n\nMarbling - (intramuscular fat) is the intermingling or dispersion of fat within the lean. Graders evaluate the amount and distribution of marbling in the ribeye muscle at the cut surface after the carcass has been ribbed between the 12th and 13th ribs. Degree of marbling is the primary determination of quality grade.\n\nMaturity refers to the physiological age of the animal rather than the chronological age. Because the chronological age is virtually never known, physiological maturity is used; and the indicators are bone characteristics, ossification of cartilage, color and texture of ribeye muscle. Cartilage becomes bone, lean color darkens and texture becomes coarser with increasing age. Cartilage and bone maturity receives more emphasis because lean color and texture can be affected by other postmortem factors.\n\nBeef yield grades - In beef, yield grades estimate the amount of boneless, closely trimmed retail cuts from the high-value parts of the carcass–the round, loin, rib, and chuck. However, they also show differences in the total yield of retail cuts. We expect a YG 1 carcass to have the highest percentage of boneless, closely trimmed retail cuts, or higher cutability, while a YG 5 carcass would have the lowest percentage of boneless, closely trimmed retail cuts, or the lowest cutability. The USDA Yield Grades are rated numerically and are 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. Yield Grade 1 denotes the highest yielding carcass and Yield Grade 5, the lowest.\n\nThe USDA's grading system, which has been designed to reward marbling, has eight different grades; Prime, Choice, Select, Standard, Commercial, Utility, Cutter and Canner. Prime has the highest marbling content when compared to other grades, and is capable of fetching a premium at restaurants and supermarkets. Choice is the grade most commonly sold in retail outlets, and Select is sold as a cheaper, but still nutritious, option in many stores. Prime, Choice, Select and Standard are commonly used in the younger cattle (under 42 months of age), and Commercial, Utility, Canner and Cutter are used in older cattle carcasses which are not marketed as wholesale beef \"block\" meat, but as material used in ground products and cheaper steaks for family restaurants.\n\n"}
{"id": "28883826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28883826", "title": "Maywand District murders", "text": "Maywand District murders\n\nThe Maywand District killings were the murders of at least three Afghan civilians perpetrated by a group of U.S. Army soldiers in 2010, during the War in Afghanistan. The soldiers, who referred to themselves as the \"Kill Team\", were members of the 3rd Platoon, Bravo Company, 2nd Battalion, 1st Infantry Regiment and 5th Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division. They were based at FOB Ramrod in Maiwand, from Kandahar Province of Afghanistan.\n\nDuring the summer of 2010, the military charged five members of the platoon with murder of three Afghan civilians in Kandahar Province and collecting their body parts as trophies. In addition, seven soldiers were charged with crimes such as hashish use, impeding an investigation, and attacking the whistleblower, Private First Class Justin Stoner.\n\nIn March 2011, U.S. Army Specialist Jeremy Morlock pleaded guilty to three counts of premeditated murder. He told the court that he had helped to kill unarmed native Afghans in faked combat situations. Under a plea deal, Morlock received 24 years in prison for murdering three Afghan civilians in return for testimony against other soldiers. Staff Sergeant Calvin Gibbs, the highest-ranking soldier and the ringleader, was also convicted on three counts of premeditated murder and sentenced to life in prison. Private First Class Andrew Holmes pleaded guilty to murder without premeditation and was sentenced to seven years in prison. Specialist Adam C. Winfield, who informed his father after the first murder and whose father attempted to alert the Army, pleaded guilty to manslaughter and was sentenced to three years in prison. In total, eleven of the twelve soldiers charged were convicted of crimes. All charges against the twelfth soldier, Specialist Michael Wagnon, were dropped by the U.S. military \"in the interest of justice\" without further explanation. PFC Justin Stoner, who initiated the case by reporting the murders to his superiors, was not charged.\n\nAll of the three staged killings of Afghan civilians occurred in the Maywand District of Afghanistan:\n\n\n\"Der Spiegel\" published three photos of U.S. soldiers posing with the bodies of Afghans they had killed. One of the photos shows SPC Jeremy Morlock next to one of them. He appears to be smiling and raising the head of a corpse by the hair. Other images published later in \"Rolling Stone\" include one of two unidentified Afghans cuffed together around a milestone and wearing a cardboard handwritten sign made out of a MRE package box that read \"Talibans are Dead\". Other photos were taken of mutilated body parts, among them one of a head being maneuvered with a stick. Two videos were also published, one of two possibly armed Afghans on a motorcycle gunned down by members of another battalion of the 5th Stryker brigade called \"Motorcycle Kill\", and one called \"Death Zone\" of gunsight footage with jeerings heard in the background showing two Afghans suspected of planting an IED killed in an airstrike with Apocalyptica single \"En Vie\" as a soundtrack. Senior officials at NATO's International Security Assistance Force in Kabul have compared the pictures published to the images of U.S. soldiers abusing prisoners in Abu Ghraib in Iraq.\n\nGibbs used medical shears to sever several fingers that he kept as a form of human trophy collecting. He gave one of them to Holmes, who kept it dried in a Ziploc bag.\n\nFive of the Army soldiers faced murder charges while seven others were charged with participating in a coverup.\n\nDavid Bram from Vacaville, California was charged with conspiracy to commit assault and battery, unlawfully striking another soldier, violating a lawful order, dereliction of duty, cruelty and maltreament and endeavoring to impede an investigation. In May 2011 additional charges were filed against Bram including solicitation to commit premeditated murder, aggravated assault on Afghan civilians, planting evidence and unlawfully discussing murder scenarios with subordinates. He was convicted by an enlisted panel sitting as a general court-martial of conspiracy to commit assault and battery, failure to obey a general order, dereliction of duty, maltreatment of a subordinate, assault consummated by battery, obstruction of justice, and solicitation of another to commit murder. Bram was sentenced to a dishonorable discharge, reduction to the lowest enlisted grade, and five years in prison eligible for parole after serving about 3 years and four months of his five-year sentence. The U.S. Army Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed the conviction and sentence, and the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces denied review.\n\nThe Kill Team ringleader, Staff Sergeant Calvin Gibbs, from Billings, Montana, was the highest-ranking soldier in the case. He was charged with conspiracy and three counts of premeditated murder for plotting to kill three Afghan civilians and then murdering them.\n\nA report in \"The Guardian\" said that soldiers told the Army's Criminal Investigation Command (CID) that Gibbs bragged of his exploits while serving in the Iraq War, saying how easily one could \"toss a grenade at someone and kill them.\" Prosecutors said Gibbs was found in possession of \"finger bones, leg bones and a tooth taken from Afghan corpses\".\n\nGibbs was convicted by a military jury on 15 counts, including the premeditated murder of Mudin, Agha and Adahdad as well as illegally cutting off pieces of their corpses and planting weapons to make the men appear to be Taliban fighters. In November 2011, Gibbs was sentenced to life in prison with the possibility of parole after 10 years minus the 547 days of pretrial confinement. He expressed regret for human trophy collecting but not for the killings in which he participated, claiming that all were justified.\n\nAndrew Holmes's attorneys argued they were constrained in defending him by the Army's decision to conceal photos of the man he had allegedly shot in January. The National Institute of Military Justice argued that the gruesome corpse photos should be made public.\n\nHolmes has also said Morlock threatened his life if he told anyone that the killing of Gul Mudin was staged and unnecessary. A doctor testified at Holmes's trial that there were no machine gun wounds on the victim that prosecutors said was shot by Holmes's machine gun. Another soldier testified that the body was riddled with wounds and that it appeared to him that it was Holmes's weapon that killed Mudin.\n\nIn September 2011 Holmes pleaded guilty to murder without premeditation and was sentenced to 7 years in prison. He was released from prison on October 25, 2015.\n\nJones, of Pomona, California, faced charges that he beat up another soldier and fired at Afghan civilians who did not pose a threat to him. He was sentenced to seven months in prison and demotion to the rank of private.\n\nKelly, of Montesano, Washington, was convicted of conspiring to harm SPC Justin Stoner. He was sentenced to 60 days' hard labor and discharged from the Army.\n\nPFC Moore, of Severna Park, Maryland, faced the fewest charges among the group. Moore pleaded guilty to using hashish during the deployment. He was demoted to private and had to forfeit half a month's pay.\n\nSPC Corey Moore, of Redondo Beach, California, pleaded guilty that he kicked a witness and stabbed one of the corpses. He was sentenced to 60 days' hard labor and a bad conduct discharge.\n\nJeremy Morlock, a 22-year-old Army specialist from Wasilla, Alaska, was sentenced to 22 years in prison, reduction to the lowest enlisted grade and a dishonorable discharge by a military tribunal. Morlock pleaded guilty to three counts of premeditated murder, conspiracy, obstruction of justice and illegal drug use. He will become eligible for parole after serving 7 years in federal prison. He has agreed to testify against the other soldiers allegedly involved. During his hearing he was asked by Judge Lieutenant Colonel Kwasi Hawks \"Were you going to shoot at (civilians) to scare them and it got out of hand?\". Morlock replied: \"The plan was to kill people, sir\". Morlock challenged his guilty plea, but the Army Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed the conviction and sentence.\n\nMorlock's mother accused the U.S. government of scapegoating him: \"I think the government is just playing these guys as scapegoats. The leaders dropped the ball. Who was watching over all this?\" she said in a \"Seattle Times\" interview.\n\nQuintal was given a bad-conduct discharge and sentenced to 90 days hard labor in a plea deal for frequently using drugs during his combat deployment, joining an assault on a comrade and keeping digital photos of Afghan casualties. He is also required to testify against others in the case.\n\nRobert Stevens, an Army medic from Portland, Oregon, knew Gibbs while serving with him in A-52, the Brigade Commander's Personnel Security Detachment, where they served under CPT Samuel Lynn. The two maintained a close friendship and remained in contact after Gibbs had been transferred from A-52 to 2–1 Infantry. SSG Stevens was sentenced to nine months in prison as part of a plea deal to testify against 11 other Lewis-McChord based Stryker soldiers. He pleaded guilty to four charges including shooting \"in the direction of\" two Afghan farmers for no reason. Stevens said Gibbs ordered him to shoot on the two farmers and that he regretted \"not trying to stop Staff Sergeant Gibbs from trying to kill innocent people.\"\n\nPFC Justin Stoner was the soldier who caused the investigation to begin. He caught a few members of his unit smoking hashish and as a result was later beaten by unit members. When his injuries were taken up his chain of command, he had to explain what happened. He then admitted he knew of murders committed by SSG Gibbs and other unit members, which opened up the case. Stoner was not charged and was honorably discharged in 2012.\n\nChristopher Winfield, the father of platoon member SPC Adam C. Winfield, attempted to alert the Army of the \"kill team's\" existence when his son explained the situation from Afghanistan via a Facebook chat after the first killing. In response to the news from his son, Christopher Winfield called the Army inspector general's 24-hour hotline, the office of Senator Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), and a sergeant at Joint Base Lewis-McChord who told him to call the Army's Criminal Investigation Division. He then contacted the Fort Lewis command center and spoke to a sergeant on duty who agreed that SPC Winfield was in potential danger but he had to report the crime to his superiors before the Army could take action.\n\nOn August 5, 2011, Winfield, charged with premeditated murder and conspiracy to commit murder, pleaded guilty under a plea deal to involuntary manslaughter and use of an illegal controlled substance. The involuntary manslaughter charge stems from Winfield's failure to intervene and prevent the other soldiers from carrying out the attack against the Afghan in U.S. custody. Under the plea deal he didn't admit to the killing of Mullah Adahdad. He claimed that he fired his automatic weapon away from Adahdad but that he did nothing to stop the murder. He was sentenced to 3 years in prison. He was released from prison in August 2012.\n\nIn 2011 Wagnon faced the following charges: possessing a human skull fragment, conspiracy to harm Afghans, premeditated murder, assaulting noncombatants, trying to destroy evidence. After pretrial hearings an Army investigating officer twice recommended that prosecutors drop the charges and in February 2011, Lewis-McChord senior commander Maj. Gen. Lloyd Miles dismissed them ending the Army's prosecution.\n\nThe US Army issued an apology for the photos, stating that \"These court-martial proceedings speak for themselves. The photos appear in stark contrast to the discipline, professionalism and respect that have characterized our soldiers' performance during nearly 10 years of sustained operations.\" In a Department of Defense Press release on March 28, 2011 the Army stated:\n\nAccording to a secret US Army investigative report obtained by \"Der Spiegel\", Colonel Harry Tunnell's (of the 5th Stryker Brigade) \"inattentiveness to administrative matters … may have helped create an environment in which misconduct could occur.\" However the report according to Der Spiegel cleared him of responsibility stating there was no 'causal relationship' between the killings and his \"aggressive leadership style\". At least a dozen media organizations have filed Freedom of Information Act requests for the report.\n\nThe Army Times reported on the investigation into Harry Tunnell's leadership of the 5th Stryker Brigade and its conclusions. The brigade, was reported to be \"rife with lapses of discipline, misdirection and mixed signals about its mission.\" Tunnell's leadership, which the report says included, a \"lack of emphasis on administrative matters such as command inspections and urinalysis, 'may have helped create an environment in which misconduct could occur,' the investigation found\".\n\nA 2013 documentary film, titled \"The Kill Team\" reports on the murders and the people involved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "602002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602002", "title": "Mitsuteru Yokoyama", "text": "Mitsuteru Yokoyama\n\nYokoyama spent his boyhood during World War II and was evacuated to Tottori with his family. \nHe graduated from Kobe municipal Ota junior high school and went on to the Kobe municipal Suma high school.\nOsamu Tezuka's \"Metropolis\" made a deep impression on Yokoyama who wished to become a manga artist in earnest and so he contributed his works to a comic book in his high school days.\nHe entered the Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation after graduation from high school, but quit his job before five months passed because there was no time to draw a manga.\nHe found a new job as a publicity department member for a movie company based in Kobe and pursued his manga artist career on his free time.\n\nYokoyama came out with the book \"\" for his manga artist début, which caught Osamu Tezuka's attention.\n\nIn 1955, Yokoyama had a title serialized in the magazine \"Shōjo\" for the first time, \"\".\n\nIn 1956, \"Tetsujin 28-go\" appeared serially in the \"shōnen\" magazine after he resigned from the movie company.\n\"Tetsujin 28-go\" became a popular work equal to Tezuka's \"Astro Boy\" and its animated adaptation also made a smashing success. This prompted Yokoyama to become a full-time manga artist and to move to Tokyo the same year.\n\nIn 1964, he established \"Hikari Production\", an incorporated company.\nMaking good use of his vast exposure to movies during his previous job, he produced consecutive popular hits in various genres, both in comics and anime, such as , \"Akakage\", \"Sally the Witch\", \"Giant Robo\", \"Babel II\" and so on.\nWith the writing of \"\" (1967–1971) and \"Yokoyama Mitsuteru Sangokushi\" (\"Records of Three Kingdoms\") (1971–1986), he began a new chapter in his career as he drew mostly comics based on original stories with material from China's and Japan's History.\n\nIn 1991, \"Yokoyama Mitsuteru Sangokushi\" won the prize for excellence from the Japan Cartoonist Association and an animated version was broadcast on TV Tokyo.\n\nIn July 1997, Yokoyama was hospitalized with myocardial infarction and had an operation. He returned to work in next year March.\n\nIn 2004, while under medical treatment, Yokoyama won the MEXT Prize of the Japan Cartoonist Association.\n\nOn the morning of April 15, 2004, Yokoyama suffered burns all over his body due to a fire breaking out in his house. His condition deteriorated and he fell in a coma. Yokoyama died in the hospital near his home at 10:00 p.m. on the same day, aged 69.\n\nThe attractions of Yokoyama's works are calculated story deployment and an elaborate setting. On the other hand, Yokoyama liked light characterizations and didn't let characters show their feelings too much. He was better at a serious story manga rather than with comedy, though he nonetheless drew comics in the latter genre.\n\nWhile Tezuka established the technique to draw Japanese comics, it was Yokoyama who established the format of various genres of current Japanese comics and anime. Whereas many comic artists prefer their original stories not to be changed when adapted, Yokoyama was realistic and tolerant, so many of his works were made into animation or Tokusatsu.\n\nHirohiko Araki said that he was conscious of Yokoyama's hard-boiled style in that he sticks to suspense and describes the hero's character drily.\n\nA few characters of Katsuhiro Otomo’s \"AKIRA\" are named after characters from \"Tetsujin 28-go.\"\n\nSome names of characters in Naoki Urasawa's \"20th Century Boys\" are references to \"Tetsujin 28-go.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49579186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49579186", "title": "Mohammad Aamer (Lahore cricketer)", "text": "Mohammad Aamer (Lahore cricketer)\n\nMohammad Aamer (born 1998) is a Pakistani first-class cricketer who plays for Lahore. A left-handed batsman, he played three List A games for the team in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "38169947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38169947", "title": "Mortuary cult", "text": "Mortuary cult\n\nA mortuary cult (also called funerary cult and death cult) is a ceremonial and religious form of a cult fostered over a certain duration of time, often lasting for generations or even dynasties. It concerns deceased peoples kept in the memories of their bereaved members, mostly family members or loyal servants.\n\nThe most common form of a mortuary cult is a tomb with gravestone, which is visited by the bereaved frequently. A further, well known, form of a mortuary cult is a shrine with a picture or bust of the deceased, which is also visited and cared frequently. The Japanese Shintō-cult is well known for its memorial shrines erected for mortuary cults. Another, more unusual, form of mortuary cult is an urn with ash, deposed at the home of the yet-living bereaved. Especially ancient cultures are known for their mortuary cults, because they left behind extraordinary memorials, which were used for mortuary cults during the epoques in which they were created.\n\nA famous form of mortuary cults is handed down by the Ancient Egyptians. The Egyptians fostered a very intense form of death cult because they were of the belief that the soul (Egypt. \"Ba\") and consciousness (Egypt. \"Ka\") frequently returned to the world of the living in attempt to guard and guide them. To hold the power of the soul and consciousness up eternally, the Egyptians erected shrines (so-called \"House-of-the-Ka\") and mortuary temples, wherein they performed prayers and ceremonies over several dynasties. The mortuary cults for deceased kings were particularly costly and long-lasting. Early private tombs of the first four dynasties contained so-called slab stelas with the stylized depiction of the deceased, sitting on an offering table. The stela also presented inscriptions with the name and title of the deceased, together with lists of offering food and grave goods the deceased could magically use in the otherworld. Private tombs (especially mastabas) contained also so-called false doors, of which the Egyptians believed that the \"Ba\", \"Ka\" and shadow of the deceased could use false doors as a portal between the world of living and the world of the dead. Additionally, in later times the Egyptians erected so-called \"Ka\"-statues with the name of the deceased on the base. Royal statues were richly decorated and oversized and every day mortuary priests performed ritual purifications on these \"Ka\"-statues.\n\nThe ancient Egyptians believed in life after death and that the body was needed to house the \"Ba\" and shadow, whenever they would visit the world of the living. Thus, they used elaborate mummification and embalming techniques to preserve the body eternally. The special house for embalming was called in early times \"where life endures\", in later dynasties it was called \"beautiful house\". At first, the deceased was washed, shaved and then prepared for the \"opening the body\". Embalmers made a cut in the left side of the torso to remove internal organs, the only organ left in the body was the heart. All removed organs were burnt in early times, from the late Old Kingdom onward the embalmers dried and put them in special vessels called canopic jars. The brain of the deceased was destroyed, removed and discarded, because the Egyptians didn't know the functions and importance of the brain. The body was then covered in natron salts to absorb all moisture. After 40 days, the flesh would shrink, and the skin would darken, leaving only hair, skin and bones. The dried body cavity was stuffed with resins, sawdust and/or linen to give and keep shape. The whole body was then wrapped in many layers of linen bandages. During the process, priests placed magical protective amulets between the linen layers. The entire mummification process took about 70 days.\n\nThe Ancient Romans celebrated their mortuary cult at the end of every year. This feast was called \"Parentalia\" (derived from lat. \"parens\" and meaning \"concerning the parents\"). To celebrate it, the crypt or tomb was visited, the bereaved family members prayed, sang and ate food at the tomb, as if the deceased were still alive. Some weeks after that, another feast was celebrated: \"Caristia\", the \"feast of reconciliation\". To strengthen the memorising effect of a mortuary cult the Ancient Romans placed palatial stelae at the burial site. The inscriptions on the stelae were full of hymns and glorifications in attempt to hold up an always positive picture of the deceased.\n\nSimilar to the Ancient Romans, the Ancient Greek also fostered a frequently repeated mortuary cult. But at Greece the cult was celebrated at the death day of the deceased. An interesting custom was the offering of coins. The Ancient Greeks were of the belief that the deceased had to cross the death river in Hades. The ferryman of that river, Kharon, required a coin from the deceased as an obolus. To assure that the deceased never were without coins, the bereaved offered a drachma coin made of silver.\n\nA very obscure mortuary cult was fostered by the natives of the Easter Islands. Because almost no inscription survived from the height of the Easter Island culture and attempts to translate the ominous Rongorongo language were undertaken for a long time, the only knowledge about the mortuary cult of the Easter Islands is based on reconstructions. The only remains of the mortuary cults are the most famous at the same time: giant statues made of volcanic stone, called \"Moai\", were placed on flat platforms, bedighted with a wooden plaquette and crowned with a cylindric stone made of red stone. According to travelling reports from the 17th century the Moai were memorial statues of deceased kings, noblemen and priests. But at the visits of the first Europeans, most of the mortuary cults were already abandoned.\n"}
{"id": "18299111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18299111", "title": "Nigel Cox (doctor)", "text": "Nigel Cox (doctor)\n\nDr Nigel Leigh Cox (born 1945 in Surrey) is an English consultant rheumatologist and one of the few doctors in Britain to have been charged with attempted murder. In 1992 he was convicted of the attempted murder of patient Lillian Boyes, and received a suspended sentence.\n\nCox worked at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital, Winchester, England.\n\nIn 1991 Lillian Boyes, then 70, entered the Royal Hampshire County Hospital. Cox was her consultant and had been treating Boyes for 13 years. As her rheumatoid arthritis became worse, she pleaded with him to end her life. According to the hospital chaplain, 'When anyone touched her you could hear the bones move about in their joints. The sound will stay with me to the grave'.\n\nIn August 1991, Cox administered an injection of two ampoules of potassium chloride, in order to stop her heart. After she died, Patrick, one of her sons, thanked Cox. In Cox's view, he probably shortened her life by \"between 15 minutes and an hour.\"\n\nCox entered the amount used in the hospital log - twice the amount needed to cause death. It was then noticed by a nurse, who reported it. Cox signed the cause of death as having been bronchial pneumonia.\n\nCox was arrested for attempted murder and suspended for 18 months by the hospital, though he was allowed to teach at another hospital and continue his private practice.\n\nCox was tried at Winchester Crown Court in September 1992 by Mr Justice Ognall. Cox was charged with attempted murder, since it was impossible to conclusively prove that the injection he gave killed her. He was given a 12-month suspended sentence. Boyes' family supported his actions throughout the trial.\n\nIn November 1992, the professional conduct committee of the General Medical Council decided to take no further action. Cox returned to his former job in February 1993, under supervision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20488945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20488945", "title": "Olean High School shooting", "text": "Olean High School shooting\n\nThe Olean High School shooting was a school shooting that occurred on December 30, 1974, at Olean High School in Olean, New York. The gunman, 17-year-old Anthony F. Barbaro, an honor student and member of the school's rifle team, indiscriminately shot at people on the street from windows at the third floor of the school building. Three people were killed and another 11 people were injured during the shooting.\n\nOn November 1, 1975, Barbaro hanged himself in his cell at the Cattaraugus County Jail.\n\nThe incident began during the afternoon of December 30, 1974, when Barbaro left his house with his mother's car. He told his brother, Chris, that he was going target shooting. Barbaro arrived at Olean High School at approximately 2:50 p.m. After leaving his car, he entered the school building through an opened side entrance and proceeded to the third floor where he set off a coke bottle filled with gasoline and a wick. Unable to open the locked door to the student council room, Barbaro shot off the lock, entered the student council room, and tied the door shut. A 12-man custodial crew was doing routine maintenance in the basement of the school at this time. When they heard a fire alarm sound, the superintendent dispatched Earl Metcalf to see what the problem was at the 3rd floor. He met Joe Kosidlo, the 3rd floor custodian, who asked him to vacate because he thought he heard gun shots. Mr. Metcalf did not listen and proceeded to where he heard the noise. Anthony Barbaro was then confronted by Earl Metcalf, seeing Metcalf through the glass window of the student council room, he opened his door, shot and killed him. Barbaro then positioned himself in the student council room on the third floor of the school. There, he began shooting at people outside of the school.\n\nFire trucks began to respond to the fire alarm, then local police and finally New York State troopers. At this time there were no students present and only Principal Louis Nicol, secretaries, business office, maintenance and custodians were at the school. All but the Supt. secretary immediately went to the boiler room at the rear of the school. By 5:20 p.m., local and State Police officers were surrounding the school building, and a National Guard tank had arrived to remove the injured victims. Before night fall, two New York State Police entered the school and threw tear gas grenades into the student council room, where Barbaro was found unconscious inside the room wearing a defective gas mask. Barbaro was laid onto a stretcher and transported by ambulance to the hospital, examined and, suffering no injuries, was then transferred to the Olean City Jail.\n\nAccording to police Barbaro had fired 31 shots. Three people were killed in the shooting, and eleven others were wounded. Those killed were Earl Metcalf, Neal Pilon, and Carmen Wright Drayton, who was six months pregnant. Earl Metcalf, 62, was killed inside the school building, while Columbia Gas Co. employee Neal Pilon, 58, was shot while crossing the street outside of the school. Carmen Wright, 25, was shot in the head inside her car while driving by the school. Both Pilon and Wright were pronounced \"dead on arrival\" at Olean General Hospital. Seven people survived the shooting with gunshot wounds, while four others sustained injuries from flying glass fragments. Eight of the wounded victims were Olean city firemen responding to a fire complaint at the school.\n\nThe perpetrator of the shooting was 17-year-old Anthony Barbaro, a lifelong Olean resident. He had attended Olean High School, where he was an honor student and a star marksman on his school's rifle team. He ranked eighth highest academic score in his senior class, and was inducted into the National Honor Society in February 1974. He had also won a Regents Scholarship to New York University that December. Those who knew Barbaro remember him as being quiet, and his school principal described him as a \"more of a loner than not.\". Louis Nicol, former principal of Olean High School, and present in the building at the time of shooting, said that Barbaro excelled scholastically and caused no disciplinary problems at school. Barbaro lived in Olean, New York, with his parents and his three younger siblings – sister Cecile, brothers Steven and Chris. His father was an executive of a successful manufacturing firm, while Anthony worked with his mother at a local fast-food restaurant. Barbaro had also shown an interest in engineering, and had hoped to become a scientist.\n\nPolice have found no apparent motives as to why Barbaro committed his crimes. A teammate of Barbaro on the school's rifle team recalls Barbaro having spoken of wanting to \"hold up\" the Olean Armory and engage in a police standoff. Barbaro had just tried out for the bowling team but did not qualify.\n\nIn a note explaining his motives Barbaro wrote:\n\nI guess I just wanted to kill the person I hate most -- myself, I just didn't have the courage. I wanted to die, but I couldn't do it, so I had to get someone to do it for me. It didn't work out.\n\nOn December 31, 1974, Anthony Barbaro was arraigned on three counts of second-degree murder, six counts of first-degree assault, and five counts of first-degree reckless endangerment. Barbaro was then being held without bail at the Olean City Jail. Following the shooting, police had found homemade smoke bombs, as well as gasoline and glass bottles, and empty propane canisters in Barbaro's bedroom. Police also found, in Barbaro's bedroom, bomb recipes and a journal that detailed his plans for the shooting. In April 1975, he had entered a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity, however he was found competent to stand trial by two court-appointed psychiatrists. Barbaro was soon transferred from the Olean City Jail to the Cattaraugus County Jail in Little Valley. On October 21, 1975, a grand jury was seated for Barbaro's trial at the Olean Municipal Building.\n\nOn October 27, defense attorney Vincent E. Doyle, Jr. presented his testimony at a preliminary hearing, stating that Barbaro had a \"serious, deep-rooted mental illness that precluded his [Barbaro's] conviction.\" On November 1, 1975, Barbaro hanged himself with a bedsheet in his cell at the Cattaraugus County Jail. Cattaraugus County coroner Dr. Harry C. Law ruled the death a suicide. Barbaro had written three suicide notes that were found on his bed in his cell. One note was addressed to his family, another note was addressed to a woman he corresponded with in prison, and the third note was addressed \"to whom it may concern\".\n\nThe third note read:\n\nA total of eleven people survived the shooting with injuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "33413652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33413652", "title": "Peter Allen (Australian politician)", "text": "Peter Allen (Australian politician)\n\nPeter Allen (c. 1855 – 22 October 1925) was an Australian politician. He was a farmer and a correspondent for the \"Adelaide Advertiser\" before entering politics. He was a member of the South Australian House of Assembly, representing Wallaroo from 1902 to 1912 and Yorke Peninsula from 1915 to 1925 as a representative of the Farmers and Producers Political Union, the Liberal Union and Liberal Federation. He contested the 1891 Wallaroo by-election.\n\nPrior to entering state politics, he was chairman of the District Council of Green's Plains, and was the first chairman of the District Council of Kadina from 1888 to 1891.\n"}
{"id": "1723528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1723528", "title": "Project Cyclops", "text": "Project Cyclops\n\nProject Cyclops was a 1971 NASA project that investigated how SETI should be conducted. As a NASA product the report is in the public domain. The project team created a design for coordinating large numbers of radio telescopes to search for Earth-like radio signals at a distance of up to 1,000 light-years to find intelligent life. The proposed design was shelved due to costs. However, the report became the basis for much of the SETI work to follow.\n\nThe main conclusions, taken verbatim from the report. The \"italics\" are in the original, as is the flowery language (see for example conclusion 12):\n\n1. It is vastly less expensive to look for and to send signals than to attempt contact by spaceship or by probes. This conclusion is based not on the present state of our technological prowess but on our present knowledge of physical law.\n\n2. The order-of-magnitude uncertainty in the average distance between communicative civilizations in the galaxy strongly argues for an expandable search system. The search can be begun with the minimum system that would be effective for nearby stars. The system is then expanded and the search carried farther into space until success is achieved or a new search strategy is initiated.\n\n3. Of all the communication means at our disposal, microwaves are the best. They are also the best for other races and for the same reasons. The energy required at these wavelengths is least and the necessary stabilities and collecting areas are fundamentally easier to realize and cheaper than at shorter wavelengths.\n\n4. The best part of the microwave region is the low frequency end of the \"microwave window\"- frequencies from about 1 to 2 or 3 GHz. Again, this is because greater absolute frequency stability is possible there, the Doppler rates are lower, beamwidths are broader for a given gain, and collecting area is cheaper than at the high end of the window.\n\n5. Nature has provided us with a rather narrow quiet band in this best part of the spectrum that seems especially marked for interstellar contact. It lies between the spectral lines of hydrogen (1420 MHz) and the hydroxyl radical (1662 MHz). Standing like the Om and the Um on either side of a gate, these two emissions of the disassociation products of water beckon all water-based life to search for its kind at the age-old meeting place of all species: the water hole.\n\n6. It is technologically feasible today to build phased antenna arrays operable in the 1- to 3 GHz region with total collecting areas of 100 or more square kilometers. The Cyclops system is not nearly this large, but we see no \"technological\" limits that would prevent its expansion to such a size.\n\n7. With antenna arrays equivalent to a single antenna a few kilometers in diameter at both the transmitting and receiving end, microwave communication is possible over intergalactic distances, and high-speed communication is possible over large interstellar distances. Thus rapid information transmission can occur once contact has been confirmed between two civilizations.\n\n8. In the search phase we cannot count on receiving signals beamed at us by directive antennas. Neither can we afford to overlook this possibility. Beamed signals may be radiated at relatively low powers by communicative races to as many as a thousand nearby likely stars and for very long times. Long range beacons, intended to be detectable at any of the million or so likely stars within 1000 light-years, will probably be omnidirectional and very high powered (formula_1 W).\n\n9. Beacons will very likely be circularly polarized and will surely be highly monochromatic. Spectral widths of 1 Hz or less are probable. They will convey information at a slow rate and in a manner that does not seriously degrade their detectability. How best to respond will be contained in this information.\n\n10. The efficient detection of beacons involves searching in the frequency domain with very high resolution (1 Hz or less). One of the major contributions of the Cyclops study is a data processing method that permits a 100 MHz frequency band to be searched simultaneously with a resolution of 0.1 Hz. The Cyclops system provides a receiver with a billion simultaneous narrow channel outputs. Although the Cyclops system bandwidth is 100 MHz, no very great technological barriers prevent widening it to 200 MHz. This would permit searching the entire \"water hole\" simultaneously. \"If our conclusion as to the appropriateness of this band is correct, the problem posed by the frequency dimension of the search can be considered solved.\"\n\n11. The cost of a system capable of making an effective search, using the techniques we have considered, is on the order of 6 to 10 billion dollars, and this sum would be spent over a period of 10 to 15 years. If contact were achieved early in this period, we might either stop expanding the system or be encouraged to go on to make further contacts. The principal cost in the Cyclops design is in the antenna structures. Adopting an upper frequency limit of 3 GHz rather than 10 GHz could reduce the antenna cost by a factor of two.\n\n12. The search will almost certainly take years, perhaps decades and possibly centuries. To undertake so enduring a program requires not only that the search be highly automated, it requires a long term funding commitment. This in turn requires faith. Faith that the quest is worth the effort, faith that man will survive to reap the benefits of success, and faith that other races are, and have been, equally curious and determined to expand their horizons. We are almost certainly not the first intelligent species to undertake the search. The first races to do so undoubtedly followed their listening phase with long transmission epochs, and so have later races to enter the search. Their perseverance will be our greatest asset in our beginning listening phase.\n\n13. The search for extraterrestrial intelligent life is a legitimate scientific undertaking and should be included as part of a comprehensive and balanced space program. We believe that the exploration of the Solar System was and is a proper initial step in the space program but should not be considered its only ultimate goal. The quest for other intelligent life fires the popular imagination and might receive support from those critics who now question the value of landings on \"dead\" planets and moons.\n\n14. A great deal more study of the problem and of the optimum system design should precede the commitment to fund the search program. However, \"it is not too early to fund these studies\". Out of such studies would undoubtedly emerge a system with greater a capability-to-cost ratio than the first Cyclops design we have proposed.\n\n15. The existence of more than one Cyclops-like system has such great value in providing complete sky coverage, continuous reception of detected signals, and in long base-line studies, that international cooperation should be solicited and encouraged by complete dissemination of information. The search should, after all, represent an effort of all mankind, not just of one country.\n\nMany, but not all, of the conclusions have withstood the test of time - there is a chapter in the book \"SETI 2020\" that revisits the conclusions of the Cyclops report. Particular differences include:\n\nIn the 1970s, 10,000 copies of the Cyclops report were distributed by NASA. It is reasonable to assume that most major figures within the current SETI community have seen the document.\n\nAs of the 1990s, the Cyclops report had long been out of print. In 1995 The SETI League collaborated with the SETI Institute to reprint this important historical document. Project Cyclops, Second Printing, is currently available through The SETI League. It went on sale in June, 1996, honoring the 25th anniversary of the opening Project Cyclops meeting. John Billingham, who co-chaired the Cyclops team, wrote a dedication to Bernard M. Oliver, which appears in the new edition, along with introductory remarks by SETI League president Richard Factor and executive director H. Paul Shuch.\n\nIn the 2000s, NASA digitized the original report and made it available on-line at no cost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "197517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197517", "title": "Rachel Corrie", "text": "Rachel Corrie\n\nRachel Aliene Corrie (April 10, 1979 – March 16, 2003) from Olympia, Washington, was an American activist and diarist. She was a member of a pro-Palestinian group called the International Solidarity Movement (ISM). She was killed by an Israel Defense Forces (IDF) armored bulldozer in a combat zone in Rafah, in the southern part of the Gaza Strip, under contested circumstances during the height of the second Palestinian intifada.\n\nShe had gone to Gaza as part of her senior-year college assignment to connect her home-town with Rafah in a sister cities project. While there, she had engaged with other International Solidarity Movement (ISM) activists in efforts to prevent the Israeli army's demolition of Palestinian houses. According to the Israeli authorities the demolitions were carried out to eliminate weapons-smuggling tunnels. According to human rights groups the demolitions were collective punishment.\n\nLess than two months after her arrival, on March 16, 2003, Corrie was killed during an Israeli military operation after a three-hour confrontation between Israeli soldiers operating two bulldozers and eight ISM activists.\n\nThe exact nature of her death and the culpability of the bulldozer operator are disputed, with fellow ISM protestors saying that the Israeli soldier operating the bulldozer deliberately ran over Corrie, and Israeli eyewitnesses saying that it was an accident since the bulldozer operator could not see her.\n\nThe Israeli army conducted an investigation, which concluded that the death was an accident, and that the driver of the bulldozer could not see Corrie due to limited visibility from his cab. Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch as well as B'Tselem and Yesh Din criticized the military investigation.\n\nIn 2005, Corrie's parents filed a civil lawsuit against the state of Israel. The lawsuit charged Israel with not conducting a full and credible investigation into the case and with responsibility for her death, contending that she had either been intentionally killed or that the soldiers had acted with reckless neglect. They sued for a symbolic one US dollar in damages.\n\nIn August 2012, an Israeli court rejected their suit and upheld the results of the 2003 military investigation, ruling that the Israeli government was not responsible for Corrie's death. The ruling was met with criticism by some human rights organizations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, and by activists.\n\nAn appeal against the August 2012 ruling was heard on May 21, 2014. On February 14, 2015, the Supreme Court of Israel rejected the appeal.\nCorrie was born on April 10, 1979, and raised in Olympia, Washington, United States. She was the youngest of three children of Craig Corrie, an insurance executive, and Cindy Corrie. Cindy describes their family as \"average Americans—politically liberal, economically conservative, middle class\".\n\nAfter graduating from Capital High School, Corrie went on to attend The Evergreen State College, also in Olympia, where she took a number of arts courses. She took a year off from her studies to work as a volunteer in the Washington State Conservation Corps. According to the ISM, she spent three years making weekly visits to mental patients.\n\nWhile at Evergreen State College she became a \"committed peace activist\" arranging peace events through a local pro-ISM group called \"Olympians for Peace and Solidarity\". She later joined the International Solidarity Movement (ISM) organisation in order to challenge the policies of the Israeli army in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. In her senior year, she proposed an independent-study program in which she would travel to Gaza, join protesters from the ISM, and initiate a \"sister city\" project between Olympia and Rafah. Before leaving, she also organized a pen-pal program between children in Olympia and Rafah.\n\nWhile in Rafah, Corrie stood in front of armored bulldozers, in an alleged attempt to impede house demolitions which the ISM claims were being carried out. Demolitions were a common tactic employed along the security road near the border between Israel and Egypt at Rafah to uncover explosive devices and destroy tunnels used by terrorists to smuggle weapons from Egypt to Gaza. These military operations were criticized as \"collective punishment\" by some human rights groups. Israel authorities said that demolitions were necessary because \"Palestinian gunmen used the structures as cover to shoot at their troops patrolling in the area, or to conceal arms-smuggling tunnels under the Gaza-Egypt border.\" Corrie was a member of a group of about eight activists from outside of the Palestinian territories who tried to prevent the Israeli army's activities by acting as human shields.\n\nOn Corrie's first night there, she and two other ISM members set up camp inside Block J, which the ISM described as \"a densely populated neighborhood along the Pink Line and frequent target of gunfire from an Israeli watchtower\". By situating themselves visibly between the Palestinians and the Israeli snipers manning the watchtowers they hoped to discourage shooting by displaying banners stating that they were \"internationals\". When Israeli soldiers fired warning shots, Corrie and her colleagues dismantled their tent and left the area.\n\nQishta, a Palestinian who worked as an interpreter, noted: \"Late January and February was a very crazy time. There were house demolitions taking place all over the border strip and the activists had no time to do anything else.\" Qishta also stated of the ISM activists: \"They were not only brave; they were crazy.\" The safety of the protestors was frequently jeopardized by these confrontations— a British participant was wounded by shrapnel while retrieving the body of a Palestinian man killed by a sniper, and an Irish ISM activist had a close encounter with an armored bulldozer.\n\nPalestinian militants expressed concern that the \"internationals\" staying in tents between the Israeli watchtowers and the residential neighborhoods would get caught in crossfire, while other residents were concerned that the activists might be spies. To overcome this suspicion Corrie learned a few words of Arabic and participated in a mock trial denouncing the \"crimes of the Bush Administration\". While the ISM members were eventually provided with food and housing, a letter was circulated in Rafah that cast suspicion on them.\"Who are they? Why are they here? Who asked them to come here?\" On the morning of Corrie's death they planned to counteract the letter's effects. According to one of them, \"We all had a feeling that our role was too passive. We talked about how to engage the Israeli military.\"\n\nAccording to a January 2003 article by Gordon Murray, a fellow ISM activist, in the last month of her life Corrie \"spent a lot of time at the Canada Well helping protect Rafah municipal workers\" who were trying to repair damage to the well done by Israeli bulldozers. Canada Well was built in 1999 with CIDA funding. It, along with El Iskan Well, had supplied more than 50% of Rafah's water before the damage. The city had been under \"strict rationing (only a few hours of running water on alternate days)\" since. Murray writes that ISM activists were maintaining a presence there since \"Israeli snipers and tanks routinely shot at civilian workers trying to repair the wells.\" In one of her reports, Corrie wrote that despite her group's having received permission from the Israeli District Command Office and the fact that they were carrying \"banners and megaphones the activists and workers were fired upon several times over a period of about one hour. One of the bullets came within two metres of three internationals and a municipal water worker close enough to spray bits of debris in their faces as it landed at their feet.\"\n\nWhile in Gaza, Corrie took part in a demonstration as part of the February 15, 2003 anti-war protest against the invasion of Iraq. She was photographed burning a makeshift U.S. flag. Robert Spencer criticized Corrie for having burned the flag in front of children, writing that she was \"fostering ... hatred\" of the United States.\n\nAfter her death the ISM released a statement quoting Corrie's parents on the widely circulated picture of the incident:\n\nIn the words of Rachel's parents: \"The act, while we may disagree with it, must be put into context. Rachel was partaking in a demonstration in Gaza opposing the War on Iraq. She was working with children who drew two pictures, one of the American flag, and one of the Israeli flag, for burning. Rachel said that she could not bring herself to burn the picture of the Israeli flag with the Star of David on it, but under such circumstances, in protest over a drive towards war and her government's foreign policy that was responsible for much of the devastation that she was witness to in Gaza, she felt it OK to burn the picture of her own flag. We have seen photographs of memorials held in Gaza after Rachel's death in which Palestinian children and adults honor our daughter by carrying a mock coffin draped with the American flag. We have been told that our flag has never been treated so respectfully in Gaza in recent years. We believe Rachel brought a different face of the United States to the Palestinian people, a face of compassion. It is this image of Rachel with the American flag that we hope will be remembered most.\n\nRachel Corrie sent a series of emails to her mother while she was in Gaza, four of which were later published by \"The Guardian\". In January 2008, Norton published a book titled \"Let Me Stand Alone\" by Corrie, which included the e-mails along with some of her other writings. Yale Professor David Bromwich said that Corrie left \"letters of great interest\". The play \"My Name is Rachel Corrie\" and the cantata \"The Skies are Weeping\" were based on Corrie's letters.\n\nOn March 16, 2003, the IDF was engaged in an operation, possibly involving the demolition of Palestinian houses, to seize weapons and locate smuggling tunnels in a military zone between the Rafah refugee camp and the Egyptian border called Philadelphi Route. Corrie was part of a group of three British and four American ISM activists attempting to disrupt the IDF operation. Corrie placed herself in the path of a Caterpillar D9R armored bulldozer in the area and was run over by the bulldozer and fatally injured. After she was injured she was taken by a Red Crescent ambulance to the Palestinian Najar hospital, arriving at the emergency room at 5:05 pm, still alive but near death. At 5:20 pm she was declared dead.\n\nThe events surrounding Corrie's death are disputed. Fellow ISM activists said that the soldier operating the bulldozer deliberately ran Corrie over while she was acting as a human shield to prevent the demolition of the home of local pharmacist Samir Nasrallah. They said she was between the bulldozer and a wall near Nasrallah's home, in which ISM activists had spent the night several times. Israeli eyewitnesses maintain that the death was accidental because the bulldozer operator was unable to see Corrie due to the vehicle's obstructed view. Furthermore, Israeli witnesses maintain that Corrie was not defending a house from being demolished and was instead inhibiting a military operation to find contraband weapons and smuggling tunnels in Gaza. An IDF officer testified in court that on that day they were only clearing vegetation and rubble from houses that were previously demolished, and that no new houses were slated for demolition.\n\nThe major points of dispute are whether the bulldozer operator saw Corrie and whether her injuries were caused by being crushed under the blade or by the mound of debris the bulldozer was pushing. An IDF spokesman has acknowledged that Israeli army regulations normally require that the operators of the armored personnel carriers (APCs) that accompany bulldozers are responsible for directing the operators towards their targets because the Caterpillar D9 bulldozers have a restricted field of vision with several blind spots.\n\nISM activist Richard Purssell testified, \"[t]hey began demolishing one house. We gathered around and called out to them and went into the house, so they backed out. During the entire time they knew who we were and what we were doing, because they didn't shoot at us. We stood in their way and shouted. There were about eight of us in an area about 70 square meters. Suddenly, we saw they turned to a house they had started to demolish before, and I saw Rachel standing in the way of the front bulldozer.\" Human-rights activists and Palestinians say that the demolitions had also been accompanied by gunfire from Israeli snipers. The director of Rafah's hospital, Dr. Ali Moussa said that 240 Palestinians, including 78 children, had been killed since the Al-Aqsa Intifada began in 2001, \"Every night there is shooting at houses in which children are sleeping, without any attacks from Palestinians.\" The United Nations said that 582 Rafah homes were demolished and 721 damaged, with 5,305 people made homeless.\n\nAn ISM activist using the name \"Richard\", saying he had witnessed Corrie's death, told \"Haaretz\":\n\nThere's no way he didn't see her, since she was practically looking into the cabin. At one stage, he turned around toward the building. The bulldozer kept moving, and she slipped and fell off the plow. But the bulldozer kept moving, the shovel above her. I guess it was about 10 or 15 meters that it dragged her and for some reason didn't stop. We shouted like crazy to the operator through loudspeakers that he should stop, but he just kept going and didn't lift the shovel. Then it stopped and backed up. We ran to Rachel. She was still breathing.\n\nEyewitness and ISM member Tom Dale, commenting on the 2012 verdict said: \"Whatever one thinks about the visibility from a D9 bulldozer, it is inconceivable that at some point the driver did not see her, given the distance from which he approached, while she stood, unmoving, in front of it. As I told the court, just before she was crushed, Rachel briefly stood on top of the rolling mound of earth which had gathered in front of the bulldozer: her head was above the level of the blade, and just a few meters from the driver.\"\n\nJoe Carr, an American ISM activist who used the assumed name of Joseph Smith during his time in Gaza, gave the following account in an affidavit recorded and published by the Palestinian Centre for Human Rights (PCHR):\nStill wearing her fluorescent jacket, she knelt down at least 15 meters in front of the bulldozer, and began waving her arms and shouting, just as activists had successfully done dozens of times that day... When it got so close that it was moving the earth beneath her, she climbed onto the pile of rubble being pushed by the bulldozer... Her head and upper torso were above the bulldozer's blade, and the bulldozer operator and co-operator could clearly see her. Despite this, the operator continued forward, which caused her to fall back, out of view of the driver. He continued forward, and she tried to scoot back, but was quickly pulled underneath the bulldozer. We ran towards him, and waved our arms and shouted; one activist with the megaphone. But the bulldozer operator continued forward, until Corrie was all the way underneath the central section of the bulldozer.\n\nOn March 18, 2003, two days after Corrie's death, Joe (Smith) Carr was interviewed by British Channel 4 and \"The Observer\" reporter Sandra Jordan for a documentary, \"The Killing Zone\", which aired in June 2003. He stated, \"It was either a really gross mistake or a really brutal murder.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Seattle Times\", \"Smith, who witnessed Sunday's incident, said it began when Corrie sat down in front of the bulldozer. He said the operator scooped her up with a pile of earth, dumped her on the ground and ran over her twice.\"\n\nHowever, \"Smith\" later acknowledged that after Corrie fell down the dirt pile, the bulldozer operator could well have lost sight of Corrie.\n\nThe bulldozer operator, a Russian immigrant to Israel, was interviewed on Israeli TV and insisted he had no idea she was in front of him:\nYou can't hear, you can't see well. You can go over something and you'll never know. I scooped up some earth, I couldn't see anything. I pushed the earth, and I didn't see her at all. Maybe she was hiding in there.\n\nThe IDF produced a video about Corrie's death that includes footage taken from inside the cockpit of a D9. The video makes a \"credible case\", wrote Joshua Hammer in \"Mother Jones,\" that \"the operators, peering out through narrow, double-glazed, bulletproof windows, their view obscured behind pistons and the giant scooper, might not have seen Corrie kneeling in front of them\".\n\nIn April 2011, during the trial of the civil suit brought by Corrie's parents, an IDF officer testified that Corrie and other activists had spent hours trying to block the bulldozers under his command. He went on to say that it was a war zone \"where Palestinian militants used abandoned homes as firing positions and exploited foreign activists for cover\". He shouted over a megaphone for the activists to leave, tried to use tear gas to disperse them and moved his troops several times. \"To my regret, after the eighth time, (Corrie) hid behind an earth embankment. The D9 operator didn't see her. She thought he saw her,\" he said.\n\nAn infantry major later testified that the activists were endangering troops and had ignored numerous warnings to leave the area. Between September 2000 and the date of Corrie's death Israeli forces in the area had been subjected to 1,400 attacks involving gunfire, 150 involving explosive devices, 200 involving anti-tank rockets, and 6,000 involving hand grenades or mortar fire.\n\nPrime Minister of Israel Ariel Sharon promised President Bush a \"thorough, credible, and transparent investigation\". Later, Capt. Jacob Dallal, a spokesman for the Israeli army, called Corrie's death a \"regrettable accident\" and said that she and the other ISM activists were \"a group of protesters who were acting very irresponsibly, putting everyone in danger—the Palestinians, themselves and our forces—by intentionally placing themselves in a combat zone\".\n\nAn autopsy was conducted on March 24 at the Abu Kabir Forensic Institute in Tel Aviv by Chief Pathologist Yehuda Hiss. The final report was not released publicly, but in their report on the matter Human Rights Watch says a copy was provided to them by Craig Corrie, with a translation supplied by the U.S. Department of State. In the report they quote Hiss as concluding, \"Her death was caused by pressure on the chest (mechanical asphyxiation) with fractures of the ribs and vertebrae of the dorsal spinal column and scapulas, and tear wounds in the right lung with hemorrhaging of the pleural cavities.\"\n\nThe Israeli army's report [seen by \"The Guardian\"], said:\n\nOn June 26, 2003, \"The Jerusalem Post\" quoted an Israeli military spokesman as saying that Corrie had not been run over and that the operator had not seen her:\nThe driver at no point saw or heard Corrie. She was standing behind debris which obstructed the view of the driver and the driver had a very limited field of vision due to the protective cage he was working in... The driver and his commanders were interrogated extensively over a long period of time with the use of polygraph tests and video evidence. They had no knowledge that she was standing in the path of the tractor. An autopsy of Corrie's body revealed that the cause of death was from falling debris and not from the tractor physically rolling over her. It was a tragic accident that never should have happened.\n\nThe classified IDF report made no mention of the pathologist's conclusion.\n\nHoward Blume told that IDF stated:\n\n[a bulldozer with 2 crews] was engaged in \"routine terrain leveling and debris clearing\", not building demolition. Quoting from the IDF report, Corrie died \"as a result of injuries sustained when earth and debris accidentally fell on her... Ms. Corrie was not run over by the bulldozer,\" he added, IDF also claimed she was possibly \"in a blindspot for the bulldozer operators and \"behind an earth mound\", so they did not see that she was in harm's way.\n\nIn later IDF operations, the house was damaged (a hole was knocked in a wall) and was later destroyed. By that time, the Nasrallah family had moved into a different house. It was reported in 2006 that the house that Corrie was trying to protect was rebuilt with funds raised by The Rebuilding Alliance.\n\nA spokesman for the IDF told the \"Guardian\" that, while it did not accept responsibility for Corrie's death, it intended to change its operational procedures to avoid similar incidents in the future. The level of command of similar operations would be raised, said the spokesman, and civilians in the area would be dispersed or arrested before operations began. Observers will be deployed and CCTV cameras will be installed on the bulldozers to compensate for blind spots, which may have contributed to Corrie's death.\n\nThe IDF gave copies of the report, titled \"The Death of Rachel Corrie\", to members of the U.S. Congress in April 2003, and Corrie's family released the document to the media in June 2003, according to the Gannett News Service. In March 2004 the family said that the entire report had not been released, and that only they and two American staffers at the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv had been allowed to view it. The family said they were allowed to look at the report in the Consulate General of Israel to the Pacific Northwest in San Francisco. The ISM rejected the Israeli report, stating that it contradicted their members' eyewitness reports and that the investigation had not been credible and transparent.\n\nCorrie's death sparked controversy and led to international media coverage.\n\nCorrie's father, Craig Corrie has said \"I know there's stuff you can't see out of the double glass windows.\" But he has denied that as a valid excuse, saying \"you're responsible for knowing what's in front of your blade... It's a no brainer that this was gross negligence\". He added that \"they had three months to figure out how to deal with the activists that were there.\"\n\nIn March 2003, U.S. Representative Brian Baird introduced a resolution in the U.S. Congress calling on the U.S. government to \"undertake a full, fair, and expeditious investigation\" into Corrie's death. The House of Representatives took no action on the resolution. The Corrie family joined Representative Baird in calling for a U.S. investigation.\n\nYasser Arafat, the first President of the Palestinian Authority, offered his condolences and gave the \"blessings of the Palestinian people\" to Corrie, promising to name a street in Gaza after her. According to Cindy Corrie, Arafat told Craig Corrie that Rachel Corrie \"is your daughter but she is also the daughter of all Palestinians. She is ours too now.\"\n\nOn March 21, 2003, the U.S. Green Party called for an investigation of the \"murder of American Peace Activist Rachel Corrie by Israeli Forces\".\n\nIn August 2012, U.S. Ambassador to Israel Dan Shapiro stated that the Israeli investigation was not satisfactory, and was not as thorough, credible or transparent as it should have been. Shapiro said further that the government of the United States is unsatisfied with the IDF's closure of its official investigation into Corrie's death.\n\nAmnesty International called for an independent inquiry, with Christine Bustany, their advocacy director for the Middle East, saying, \"U.S.-made bulldozers have been 'weaponized' and their transfer to Israel must be suspended.\"\n\nIn 2005, Human Rights Watch published a report raising questions about the impartiality and professionalism of the IDF investigation. Some of the problems that the report mentioned were the investigators' lack of preparation, the \"hostile,\" \"inappropriate,\" and \"mostly accusatory\" questions they asked witnesses, the failure to ask witnesses to draw maps or to identify locations of events on maps, and their lack of interest in reconciling soldiers' testimonies with those of other eyewitnesses.\n\nNGO Monitor, an Israeli group, strongly criticized other NGOs and said the verdict reflects all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the incident. Its president, Gerald Steinberg said, \"Corrie's death was entirely unnecessary, and the leaders of the ISM bear much culpability for her death.\"\n\nShurat HaDin, an organization representing Israeli victims of terrorism, said that the Corrie Family should sue the Palestinian Authority and ISM over their daughter's death.\n\n\"The Observer\" suggested that because Corrie was American her death attracted more attention than the deaths of Palestinians under similar circumstances: \"On the night of Corrie's death, nine Palestinians were killed in the Gaza Strip, among them a four-year-old girl and a man aged 90. A total of 220 people have died in Rafah since the beginning of the intifada. Palestinians know the death of one American receives more attention than the killing of hundreds of Muslims.\"\n\nIn 2006, \"Haaretz\" political columnist Bradley Burston said that Corrie's death was accidental but that \"incidental killing is no less tragic than intentional killing\"; Burston criticized both the pro-Palestinian and pro-Israeli sides for their excessive rhetoric:\n\nOf all of the tragedies and casualties of the intifada, in which more than 4,000 people were killed over five years, the case of Rachel Corrie still stands apart, the subject of intense world interest and fierce debate... Part of it starts with us. \"They had no business being there\" is no excuse for what the Pentagon long ago christened collateral damage. We've learned much. But we're still not there. We should have saved Rachel Corrie's life that day, either by sending out a spotter or delaying the bulldozer's work. Right now, somewhere in the West Bank, there's an eight-year-old whose life could be saved next week, if we've managed to learn the lesson and are resourceful enough to know how to apply it.\n\nAmerican journalist Charlie Wolf referred to Corrie as \"scum\" on his show on British radio station talkSPORT. Media regulator Ofcom ruled that this \"seriously ill-judged\" remark was in breach of the \"Generally Accepted Standards\" of Broadcasting.\n\nTom Gross, in an article called \"The Forgotten Rachels\", discusses six other women named Rachel who were Jewish victims of Palestinian terrorism in the Arab-Israeli conflict. Their deaths, he wrote, received little if any coverage outside Israel. Gross went on to argue that \"partly because of the efforts of Corrie's fellow activists in the ISM, the Israeli army was unable to stop the flow of weapons through the tunnels... Those weapons were later used to kill Israeli children ... in southern Israel\". The article prompted a \"National Review\" editorial arguing \"Corrie's death was unfortunate, but more unfortunate is a Western media and cultural establishment that lionizes 'martyrs' for illiberal causes while ignoring the victims those causes create.\" Explaining the Israeli court's ruling, judge Oded Gershon said Corrie's death was \"the result of an accident she brought upon herself.\" Corrie was in a closed military area, with entry forbidden to civilians. The area was the site of daily gunfire by snipers, missile fire and IED explosions. The United States government had issued a travel warning against American citizens visiting the Gaza Strip. \"She did not distance herself from the area, as any thinking person would have done,\" the judge ruled.\n\nGeorge Rishmawi, director of the Palestinian Center for Rapprochement between Peoples, told the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" that the ISM's main purpose is to \"increase international awareness of Palestinian suffering through the involvement of foreign activists\". He stated: \"When Palestinians get shot by Israeli soldiers, no one is interested anymore ... [b]ut if some of these foreign volunteers get shot or even killed, then the international media will sit up and take notice.\"\n\nJoseph Smith (aka Joseph Carr) stated that \"'We knew there was a risk ... but we also knew it never happened in the two years that we (the ISM) have been working here. I knew we take lots of precautions so that it doesn't happen, that if it did happen it would have to be an intentional act by a soldier, in which case it would bring a lot of publicity and significance to the cause.'\"\n\nSince their daughter's death, Corrie's parents, Cindy and Craig, have spent time trying to \"promote peace and raise awareness about the plight of Palestinians\", and continue what they believe to be her work. The Corries have worked to set up the \"Rachel Corrie Foundation for Peace and Justice\" and launched projects in memory of their daughter. They have also advanced investigation into the incident and asked the U.S. Congress and various courts for redress.\n\nCorrie's parents have visited the region several times since their daughter's death and have twice visited Gaza. Following their daughter's death, they visited Gaza and Israel, seeing the place where she died, and meeting ISM members and Palestinians whom she had known. They also visited Ramallah in the West Bank, where Arafat met them and presented them with a plaque in memory of their daughter. On March 28, 2008, they addressed a demonstration in Ramallah at which Craig Corrie said: \"This village has become a symbol of nonviolent resistance. I call for solidarity with the people of Palestine in resisting the conditions imposed by the Israeli occupation to prevent the establishment of their state.\"\n\nThe Nasrallahs, whose home Rachel Corrie allegedly believed she was preventing from destruction, toured with the Corries across the United States in June 2005. The aim of the trip was, with the cooperation of the Rebuilding Alliance, to raise funds to rebuild the Nasrallah home and other homes destroyed in Rafah.\n\nIn January 2011, Corrie's parents visited the MV \"Mavi Marmara\" in Turkey, together with the head of the IHH Bülent Yıldırım. Cindy Corrie called dead \"Mavi Marmara\" activists \"martyrs\" and compared them to her daughter.\n\nCorrie's family and several Palestinians filed a federal lawsuit against Caterpillar Inc. in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington alleging liability for Corrie's death. The suit alleged Caterpillar supplied the bulldozers to the Israelis despite having notice they would be used to further \"a policy plaintiffs contend violates international law\". The case was dismissed by a Federal judge in November 2005 for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, citing, among other things, the political question doctrine. The judge found, alternatively, that the plaintiffs' claims failed on the merits.\n\nThe Corrie family appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. In September 2007 the Ninth Circuit affirmed the dismissal on the political question grounds and thus did not rule on the merits of the suit. The Court found that as the bulldozers were paid for by the U.S. Government as part of its aid to Israel, the Judicial Branch could not rule on the merits of the case without ruling on whether or not the government's financing of such bulldozers was appropriate and that this was a matter not entrusted to the Judicial Branch.\n\nIn 2010, Corrie's parents, represented by Attorney Hussein Abu Hussein, filed a lawsuit against the Israel Defense Forces and the Israeli Defense Ministry in the Haifa District Court, seeking US$324,000 in compensation. The case began in Haifa on March 10, 2010. Judge Oded Gershon presided over the case. On October 21, 2010, the bulldozer driver who had run over Corrie testified for four hours, and was cross-examined by the Corries' attorney. At the request of state prosecutors, who argued that his life could be imperiled if he was publicly identified, the driver was hidden behind a screen and visible to only the judge and attorneys. A request by the Corrie family that they also be allowed to see the driver was turned down by the judge. The driver was identified only by his initials, \"YB\", and a gag order was imposed on identifying details, although it was disclosed in court that he was a 38-year old Russian immigrant who had arrived in Israel at age 23, and was working for a food processing company at the time. The driver denied having seen her before hitting her. In addition, four experts, including an expert on the behalf of the Corrie family testified during the trial, and concluded that the bulldozer driver could not see Corrie. Four ISM witnesses testified during the case. However, the Palestinian physician from Gaza who had examined Corrie's wounds on the scene was unable to testify after Israel refused him an entry visa and rejected an application for him to testify by video link.\n\nThe court ruled against Corrie's family on August 28, 2012. In a 62-page verdict, Judge Oded Gershon ruled that Corrie's death was an accident for which she was responsible, and absolved the IDF of any wrongdoing. The judge ruled that the bulldozer driver and his commander had a very limited field of vision and could not possibly have seen her. According to the judge \"The mission of the IDF force on the day of the incident was solely to clear the ground... The mission did not include, in any way, the demolition of homes.\" The court invoked the principle of the combatant activities exception, as the IDF was attacked in the same area where Corrie was killed a few hours earlier; that Corrie could have avoided the danger and that defendants were not at fault as there was neither intent nor negligence involved in her death. The judge said that the IDF did not violate Corrie's right to life because Corrie had placed herself in a dangerous situation, that Israel's investigation was appropriate and did not contain mistakes, and also criticized the U.S. government for failing to send a diplomatic representative to observe Corrie's autopsy. Gershon said: \"I rule unequivocally that the claim that the deceased was intentionally hit by the bulldozer is totally baseless. This was an extremely unfortunate accident. I reached the conclusion that there was no negligence on the part of the bulldozer driver. I reject the suit. There is no justification to demand the state pay any damages. She [Corrie] did not distance herself from the area, as any thinking person would have done. She consciously put herself in harm's way.\"\n\nFurthermore, Gershon pointed to three different entry bans, and also pointed out that the Philadelphi route was effectively a war zone and was formally declared a closed military zone when Corrie died. Gershon also noted that the United States had issued an Israel travel advisory warning to avoid Gaza and the West Bank. In addition, Gershon said that the ISM \"abuses the human rights discourse to blur its actions which are de facto violence\" and specialized in disrupting IDF activity, which \"included an army of activists serving as 'human shields' for terrorists wanted by Israeli security forces, financial and logistical aid to Palestinians including terrorists and their families, and disruption of the sealing of suicide bombers' houses\". The Corrie family lawyer, Hussein Abu Hussein, said they were \"now studying our options\", in regards to a possible appeal.\n\nWhile rejecting the Corrie family's claims to damages, the judge also waived the Corrie family's court costs.\n\nHaifa District Court spokeswoman Nitzan Eyal said that her family could appeal the ruling. The amount sought was a symbolic US$1 and legal costs. Her mother reacted to the verdict in saying: \"I am hurt. We are, of course, deeply saddened and deeply troubled by what we heard today from Judge Oded Gershon.\" Corrie's sister, Sarah Corrie Simpson, stated that she believed \"without a doubt\" that the driver had seen her as he approached, and stated that she hoped he would one day \"have the courage\" to tell the truth. The right wing political party Yisrael Beitenu issued a statement that called the verdict \"vindication after vilification\".\n\nFormer UN Special Rapporteur on the occupied Palestinian Territories Richard Falk said of the verdict that it was \"a sad outcome, above all for the Corrie family that had initiated the case back in 2005, but also for the rule of law and the hope that an Israeli court would place limits on the violence of the state, particularly in relation to innocents and unarmed civilians in an occupied territory\". Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter of the Carter Center said that the \"court's decision confirms a climate of impunity, which facilitates Israeli human rights violations against Palestinian civilians in the Occupied Territory\".\n\nThe verdict of the Haifa District Court was appealed to the Supreme Court of Israel on May 21, 2014. The Supreme Court rejected the appeal and upheld the District Court's verdict regarding the circumstances of Corrie's death, which cleared the IDF from wrongdoing.\n\nImmediately after her death, posters and graffiti praising Corrie were posted in Rafah, with one graffiti tag reading, \"Rachel was an American citizen with Palestinian blood.\" According to the ISM's official publications, the day after Corrie died, about thirty American and European ISM activists with 300 Palestinians began protests during the public memorial service over the spot where she was fatally injured in Rafah. Gordon Murray, an ISM activist who attended the memorial, states that the IDF sent a representative to the event who intimidated the mourners into dispersing, allegedly using non-lethal weapons.\n\nIn 2008, Corrie's parents commemorated the fifth anniversary of her death at an event held in the West Bank town of Nablus. About 150 Palestinians and foreigners joined them to dedicate a memorial to Corrie on one of the city's streets.\n\nIn 2011, Iran named a street in Tehran after Corrie.\n\nIn 2004, Alaska composer Philip Munger wrote a cantata about Corrie called \"The Skies are Weeping\", which was scheduled to premiere on April 27 at the University of Alaska Anchorage, where Munger teaches. After objections to the upcoming performance were received, including from members of the Jewish community, a forum was held co-chaired by Munger and a local rabbi who claimed the work \"romanticized terrorism\". After the forum \"disintegrate<nowiki>[d]</nowiki>\", Munger announced, \"I cannot subject 16 students ... to any possibility of physical harm or to the type of character assassination some of us are already undergoing. Performance of \"The Skies are Weeping\" at this time and place is withdrawn for the safety of the student performers.\" Munger later related that he had received threatening e-mails whose content he considered was \"[just] short of what you'd take to the troopers\", and that some of his students had received similar communications. The cantata was eventually performed at the Hackney Empire theatre in London, premiering on November 1, 2005.\n\nIn early 2005, \"My Name is Rachel Corrie\", a play composed from Corrie's journals and emails from Gaza and compiled by actor Alan Rickman and journalist Katharine Viner, in a production directed by Rickman, was presented in London and later revived in October 2005. The play was to be transferred to the New York Theatre Workshop, but when it was postponed indefinitely, the British producers denounced the decision as censorship and withdrew the show. It finally opened Off-Broadway on October 15, 2006, for an initial run of 48 performances. In the same year, \"My Name is Rachel Corrie\" was shown at the Pleasance theatre as part of the Edinburgh (Fringe) Festival. The play has also been published as a paperback, and performed in ten countries, including Israel.\n\nSinger Billy Bragg recounted Corrie's death in the song \"The Lonesome Death of Rachel Corrie\", composed to the tune of Bob Dylan's \"The Lonesome Death of Hattie Carroll\". After being originally released as a free digital download, it was included on the album \"Fight Songs\" in 2011. Irish folk music/world music group Kíla included the instrumental \"Rachel Corrie\" on their 2015 album \"Suas Síos\".\n\nIn 2003, British Channel 4 and \"The Observer\" reporter Sandra Jordan and producer Rodrigo Vasquez made a documentary that was aired June 2003 on Channel 4 titled \"The Killing Zone\", about ongoing violence in the Gaza Strip. Jordan said: \"There has been a lot of interest in Britain and around the world about what happened to Rachel, I find it highly disappointing that no serious American investigative journalist has taken Rachel's story seriously or questioned or challenged the Israeli Army version of events.\"\n\nIn 2005, the BBC produced a 60 minute documentary titled \"When Killing is Easy aka Shooting the Messenger, Why are foreigners suddenly under fire in Israel?\", described as \"a meticulous examination of\" the shooting to death of James Miller, who was shot while filming in an Israeli war zone in May 2003; the shooting of British photography student Thomas Hurndall in April 2003, and the death of Rachel Corrie in March 2003. The documentary claims that the attacks were not \"random acts of violence\", but rather \"represent a culture of killing with impunity which is sanctioned by the higher echelons of the Israeli army.\"\n\nIn 2005 Yahya Barakat, who lectures on TV production, cinematography, and filmmaking at al-Quds University, filmed a documentary in Arabic with English subtitles, named \"Rachel Corrie – An American Conscience\".\n\nIn 2009, a documentary film titled \"Rachel\" is produced by Morocco born, French-Israeli director Simone Bitton detailing the death of Rachel Corrie from \"an Israeli point of view\". Its first North American public screening was at the 2009 Tribeca Film Festival.\n\nOn March 30, 2010, an 1800-tonne vessel was bought at auction in Dundalk, Ireland, for €70,000 by the Free Gaza Movement. It was outfitted for use in a voyage to Gaza, named in honour of Rachel Corrie and launched May 12, 2010. It sailed to join a flotilla intended to break the blockade of the Gaza Strip. The flotilla was intercepted; however, the MV \"Rachel Corrie\" had not reached the other ships and continued towards Gaza by itself. Israeli navy officers addressed the ship as \"Linda\"—the vessel's name before it was renamed for Rachel Corrie. The ship was intercepted by the Israeli navy on Saturday, June 5, 2010, 23 miles off the coast, and diverted to the port of Ashdod. There the cargo was to be inspected and sent over land to Gaza.\n\nOn the twelfth anniversary of Corrie's death, a symbolic gravestone with her name was installed in the Tehran cemetery to honor her by the Commemoration of Martyrs of movement of the Islamic World's Staff. Near her symbolic gravestone are twelve other symbolic gravestones.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3899089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3899089", "title": "Rattan Bai", "text": "Rattan Bai\n\nRattan Bai () was an Indian film actress and singer, and the ancestress of several Bollywood film stars.\n\nAfter the first Indian \"talkie\" film was released in 1931, the ability to sing became a major qualification when selecting actors for movies. In this era, the women were apprehensive of appearing on stage or in films. Thus, women who were willing and able to work in films were a rarity. Rattan Bai was a fairly talented singer who wrote bhajans, composed and sang them as well. She published the lyrics of her Bhajans to distribute among friends who would sing with her during Mahashivratri celebrations at her home in Chembur, Mumbai. Ratanbai acted in only one Marathi film called \"Swarajyachya seemewar\", as Shivaji's mother.\n\nRattan Bai was already in her forties when she made her film debut in 1933. Her teenage daughter Shobhna Samarth became interested in films and made her own debut in 1935. In 1941, Rattan Bai's brother's daughter Nalini Jaywant also made her film debut. Later, Shobhna married director Kumarsen Samarth and the couple had three daughters, Nutan, Tanuja,and Chatura and 1 son, Jaideep. Nutan & Tanuja both becoming celebrated actresses. Tanuja married Shomu Mukherjee, a writer & film producer. In the next generation, Nutan's son Mohnish Behl and Tanuja's daughters, Kajol and Tanisha became film stars, and Kajol is married to the film star Ajay Devgan.\n"}
{"id": "8487517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8487517", "title": "S. F. Brock", "text": "S. F. Brock\n\nS. Frank Brock (circa 1880, Wisconsin or Portland, Oregon – 1918) was an American racecar driver who participated in the 1914 Indianapolis 500. Brock was lost at sea off the coast of England in a World War I naval accident.\n"}
{"id": "31726662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31726662", "title": "Santa Fe Trail problem", "text": "Santa Fe Trail problem\n\nThe Santa Fe Trail problem is a genetic programming exercise in which artificial ants search for food pellets according to a programmed set of instructions. The layout of food pellets in the Santa Fe Trail problem has become a standard for comparing different genetic programming algorithms and solutions.\n\nOne method for programming and testing algorithms on the Santa Fe Trail problem is by using the NetLogo application. There is at least one case of a student creating a Lego robotic ant to solve the problem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4407019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4407019", "title": "Steel (John Henry Irons)", "text": "Steel (John Henry Irons)\n\nSteel (John Henry Irons) also known as the Man of Steel is a fictional comic book superhero in DC Comics. Introduced in 1993 as one of several replacement characters for the then-deceased Superman, Steel continued to be an independent superhero after Superman's resurrection. He received his own ongoing series which saw him move from Metropolis to Washington, D.C. and join the Justice League of America in Grant Morrison's \"JLA\". He later mentored his niece Natasha Irons who became a superheroine herself. \n\nFirst appearing in \"The Adventures of Superman\" #500 (June 1993), he is the second character known as Steel and was created by Louise Simonson and artist Jon Bogdanove. Aspects of the character are clearly inspired by the African American folk hero John Henry, as well as Superman.\n\nDoctor John Henry Irons was a brilliant weapons engineer for AmerTek Industries, who eventually became disgusted when the BG-60, a powerful man-portable energy cannon he had designed, fell into the wrong hands and was used to kill innocent people. As the company would have coerced him to retain his services, John faked his death, and eventually came to Metropolis. His own life was saved by none other than Superman. When John Irons asked how he could show his gratitude, Superman told him to \"live a life worth saving.\" During Superman's fatal battle against Doomsday, Irons attempted to help Superman fight the deadly menace by picking up a sledge hammer, but was buried in rubble amidst the devastation. Shortly after Superman's death, he finally awoke and crawled from the wreckage, confused and saying that he \"must stop Doomsday.\"\n\nHe recovered, but to discover that the gangs in inner-city Metropolis (now unopposed by Superman) were fighting a devastating gang war using BG-80 \"Toastmasters\", an upgraded version of his earlier AmerTek design. Irons created and donned a suit of powered armor in Superman's memory in order to stop the war, as well as the weapons, which were being distributed by Dr. Angora Lapin (also known as the White Rabbit), a former partner and lover during his time at AmerTek Industries.\n\nThe \"Reign of the Supermen\" story arc saw the rise of four \"Supermen\" who were differentiated from each other with nicknames previously applied to Superman; Irons was referred to as the \"Man of Steel\", which was later shortened to \"Steel\" by Superman himself.\n\nAlthough Steel never claimed to be the \"true Superman\", Lois Lane seriously considered the possibility that he was a walk-in—someone who was now inhabited by Superman's soul. Lois met all four \"Supermen\" that appeared after the apparent death of Superman, and while she never concluded that any of them was the one true Superman, she evinced less skepticism of Steel than she did of the others.\n\nSteel was spin off into a solo series, written by co-creator Louise Simonson and later by Christopher Priest, from 1994–1998.\n\nThe series began by having Steel leave Metropolis and return home to Washington, D.C., revealing that it had been five years since he had left. He erroneously believed that his old employers, AmerTek, would no longer be interested in him. This turned out to be false when they attacked his home. Between this attack and his knowledge that the Toastmasters were now being used on the streets of D.C., he reforged his armor (it was now stronger than ever); he began his crusade against AmerTek, which he correctly knew was responsible for leaking the weapons onto the street. Steel decided not to use the \"S\" emblem, however, since he felt that his battle might take him outside the law.\n\nSteel's family was introduced in this series: his grandparents, Butter and Bess, his sister-in-law Blondell, and her five children: Jemahl, Natasha, Paco, Tyke, and Darlene (the latter two being foster children).\n\nSteel's early adventures pitted him against AmerTek and against the gangs that were using his weapons. His nephew, Jemahl, was involved in one of the gangs, which he thought offered him protection. He was proven wrong, however, when the gangs turned against him to get to Steel. Tyke was paralyzed by a bullet meant for Jemahl and Blondell was assaulted. Steel eventually took down AmerTek and the gangs, and focused on who was helping AmerTek distribute the weapons. This led him to track down a group called Black Ops, led by the villain Hazard.\n\nSteel briefly joined up with Maxima, who was still on Earth at the time and working with the Justice League, to help her with an alien warlord named De'cine. During this time, Steel developed the ability to teleport his armor onto and off himself. At first, it appeared purely by reflex (whenever he was in mortal danger) but he soon began to better control it, although he had no idea how it happened.\n\nSteel continued his battle against Hazard's Black Ops and against the return of the White Rabbit. A bounty hunter named Chindi attempted to take down Steel, but after realizing Hazard was experimenting with children, he ended up as an ally of Irons. He was called away from Earth as part of the Superman \"Rescue Squad\" when Superman was put on trial for the destruction of Krypton.\n\nTragedy would strike the Irons family upon his return from space. Tyke, frustrated and angry over his handicap, revealed Iron's true identity to men working with Hazard. Hazard unleashed a cyborg named Hardwire, who opened fire on the Irons family. Most of them received minor injuries, though Butter was seriously wounded. Child protective services came to reclaim Tyke and Darlene. Tyke was later shown to end up in the custody of Hazard. Hardwire battled Steel at the Washington Monument, resulting in Hardwire's suicide. Steel had to send his armor away to save his life—this resulted in his secret identity being revealed to the world at large. Steel was then taken by Hazard, but managed to escape. Steel retrieved an anti-matter weapon called the Annihilator, which he had designed and hidden years before, for his showdown with Hazard. He also learned at this point that he could teleport himself, not just his armor. He destroyed Hazard and his lair, and apparently killed three young soldiers of Hazard in the battle.\n\nOnce Steel's identity was out, his family had no peace. They were harassed by neighbors and mobs. Then they were attacked by Doctor Polaris, Parasite, and others. John Henry's beloved grandmother, Bess, was killed and the family was forced to go into hiding, relocated by a friend of Steel's called Double.\n\nSteel learned that the three Black Ops agents were not truly killed. They briefly joined him in battling a monstrous, animated form of his armor that attacked him. Steel speculated that the armor came alive because of his own guilt and the strange teleportation effects. He managed to banish the monster and recall his true armor.\n\nThe title received a shakeup when Christopher Priest became the lead writer for issue #34. Steel relocated to Jersey City, New Jersey with Natasha and began to work at Garden State Medical Center. He built a new suit of armor that was significantly less powerful than the previous one (but featured the return of an kryptonian peace symbol on his shield on it). While in Jersey City, he clashed with Dennis Samuel Ellis, a resident at Garden State Medical and rival for the affections of another colleague, Amanda Quick. Hospital administrator and gang leader Arthur Villain (pronounced \"Will-hane\") recruited Ellis to become his personal bodyguard. Given a suit with several hidden weapons, Ellis adopted the name \"Skorpio\" and became a recurring nemesis for Steel. Eventually Steel was reunited with his brother Clay, a hitman whom everyone assumed had been killed. Clay assumed the alias \"Crash\" and managed to acquire a pair of Steel's flightboots before turning himself in so that he could save his daughter Natasha when she needed a blood transfusion. The series was canceled after issue #52, which featured Steel running the hospital after the unmasking of its previous coordinator, Villain.\n\nDuring the \"Worlds Collide\" crossover series between DC and Milestone Media, Steel encountered his Milestone counterpart Hardware. Each hero questioned the other's motivations, Steel believing Hardware to be too rebellious and Hardware believing Steel to be too trusting and naive.\n\nAround the time the Steel series was cancelled, Steel was recruited as a member of the Justice League, due to Batman's concern that the League was already top-heavy in brawn and required more thinkers. During his time in the League, Steel played a crucial role in the defeat of villains such as Prometheus and the Queen Bee. He even served as the leader of the reserve team—consisting of Huntress, Barda, Plastic Man, and Zauriel—left in the present during the DC One Million crisis. Following the battle against Mageddon, he ceased to serve as a full-time member of the League, although he stayed on as a supporting member for quite some time. He also became a regular member in the Superman titles, having relocated with Nat to Metropolis to run his own workshop there, called \"Steelworks.\" He also revealed at this time that he had known Superman's identity for some time. The two became partners of a sort, and John Henry helped Superman build a new Fortress of Solitude, although he maintained some contacts with the Justice League, as shown when he was able to contact Batman to help Superman find Lois Lane after she had been abducted by the Parasite.\n\nSteel retired from active duty during the Imperiex War after he was injured while wearing the Entropy Aegis, an alien armor created on the evil planet Apokolips; it nearly consumed his \"soul\" after he was taken by the Black Racer while attempting to release Doomsday and use him against Imperiex. Superman eventually confronted Darkseid in single combat with the aid of the rest of the Superman family to keep Darkseid's other forces delayed, requesting only that Darkseid release Irons from the Entropy Aegis after his defeat in exchange for him never sharing the results of this battle with anyone, although they had to rush Irons back to Earth for urgent medical attention as he was restored in the same physical state he'd been in when he was placed in the armor, and it was speculated that the injuries would prevent him ever becoming Steel again.\n\nDuring his retirement, Irons made a suit of armor for his niece Natasha, who became the new Steel. Although he was no longer actively fighting crime, he remained an important ally of Superman. He unintentionally usurped the position of Emil Hamilton as Superman's technology guru, one of several developments that led to the emergence of Ruin.\n\nJohn Henry Irons donned his armor once more in the wake of the Battle of Metropolis during \"Infinite Crisis\". Along with most of Earth's united heroes, Steel helped defeat the Secret Society of Super Villains in Metropolis, but became bitter with life and a perceived narcissism within Earth's superhero community. After the disaster, John baited Natasha into an argument in which he prevented her from leaving Metropolis to join the Teen Titans. Irons refused to let her go and ordered her to continue collecting all the debris in the city, culminating in him destroying her armor in spite.\n\nHe later identified a recently discovered corpse as that of a Lex Luthor from a parallel universe, Alexander Luthor, Jr., exonerating the real Lex Luthor from all of his recent crimes.\n\nA week later, at his Steelworks facilities, John Henry appeared to be hallucinating due to the effects of an unknown metabolic toxin. His flesh seemed to be in the middle of transforming into metal just before the lab exploded.\n\nThree days later, Steel, again wearing his armor, was called in by Doctor Mid-Nite to help him with the wounded heroes returned from space after the Crisis. He used \"Pseudocytes\" to aid in Mal Duncan's recovery.\n\nWith the help of Kala Avasti from S.T.A.R. Labs, Irons learned that he had been injected with a small dosage of Lex Luthor's new exo-gene therapy, causing his skin to mutate into stainless steel and back again. He returned to Steelworks to find Natasha attempting, and failing, to build a new suit. Unaware of the truth, she accused him of hypocrisy for accepting Lex's exo-gene treatment.\n\nThree days and two nights later, Irons appeared, transformed into a man of living steel, at a party held by Lex Luthor. In a rage, he attacked Luthor, demanding to see Natasha and threatening or endangering anyone who got in his way. However, Natasha herself soon appeared, to stop John before he could kill Luthor. Natasha then single handedly beat the enraged John until he came to his senses. He admitted that Natasha was right to stop him from killing Luthor, but maintained that he was right, too. He then asked Natasha to \"give it up, come home\". Natasha responded by punching John repeatedly and sending him flying into the Metropolis bay.\n\nHe reappeared several weeks later, having built a new suit of armor for Natasha, to make up for his behavior toward her, but had an emotional breakdown on realizing that it was too late to make amends.\n\nHe later returned to active duty saving lives, and discovered from Kala that the exo-gene therapy allowed Luthor to take away any powers he had given. He then shared his suspicions with the Teen Titans and a former test subject who had had his powers stripped away.\n\nInvestigating the Everyman Project on Thanksgiving along with Doctor Mid-Nite, Beast Boy/Changeling, and Kala, John discovered that his metal skin was peeling off and realized that the exo-gene therapy granted powers only for a limited time before they disappear completely.\n\nIn \"52\" Week 40, after Natasha's capture by Luthor, Irons, in his full armor, led the Teen Titans—Raven(Daughter of Trigon, The lord of the Underworld) Beast Boy/Changeling, Aquagirl, and Offspring—in an open assault on LexCorp. After defeating armed robot guards and Infinity, Inc., Irons, with his armor destroyed, engaged Luthor in battle. But Luthor, having gained similar abilities to Superman's, thrashes Irons. Natasha used Irons' sledgehammer to create an electromagnetic pulse that shut down Luthor's exo-gene, and Irons defeated him.\n\nIn \"52\" Week 47, John and Natasha reestablished Steelworks.\n\nSteel was one of the main characters of the \"Infinity Inc.\" vol. 2 series, which debuted in September 2007. A year after the end of the Every-man Project. Natasha is living with her uncle John Henry Irons and is in psychotherapy along with Erik, who refers to it as \"our national religion\" and Gerome. Another long-term patient, teenager Dale Smith, attacks his therapist and realizes his powers as a psychic vampire. Smith takes the name \"Kid Empty\". Apparently, a side effect of the exo-gene therapy is that once the exo-gene itself is suppressed, the energies unleashed by the therapy remains, re-enabling the metagene in a different fashion. As a result, Natasha finds herself turning to a mist-like substance, McKenna gains the ability to duplicate himself, and Storm gains a powerhouse, overconfident, female alter-ego. The group gains new members in Mercy Graves and Lucia, an Every-man subject who can psychically inflict pain on others. In issue #8, the team gains official costumes and code names, and go on their first mission.\n\nUpon the much solicited ending for the series, the Infinitors are kidnapped by the Dark Side Club, as due to the exo-gene therapy, they're unpredictable and undetectable by Apokoliptan technology, and a wild card in the upcoming Final Crisis. Irons vows to scour the Earth for his niece.\n\nIn recent months, Irons has been working with Bruce Wayne/Batman, Zatanna, Mister Miracle, the Metal Men, and assorted other technical geniuses in creating a new body for Red Tornado. Unfortunately the Amazo program infected the new body. Working together, Wayne and Irons used the Justice League of America's teleportation doorways to send Amazo(an android with the power to use other peoples powers)into a red sun, after which they completed a new body for the Red Tornado(an android with the power to make gusts of wind come out of his arms and torso).\n\nWhen Clock King takes over the Dark Side Club from Darkseid, he \"inherits\" the imprisoned Infinitors, so, when the Dark Side Club is finally destroyed, Miss Martian sends a \"brain mail\" to Irons, who comes to free his niece, and finally reunites with her.\n\nJohn Henry Irons has made multiple appearances in the regular \"Superman\" series by James Robinson. He is attacked by the villain Atlas and rendered comatose. While in the hospital, his technology is used to keep the damage to Metropolis from being repaired. He plays a part in the War of the Supermen event, where he helps Superboy, the Guardian(James Harper), and Natasha bring down Sam Lane's conspiracy. He has a rematch with Atlas, whom he defeats.\n\nSteel later appeared as one of the former JLA members called to Washington D.C. in order to help pierce a massive energy dome that had encapsulated the city. After a series of failed attempts to pierce the dome, Steel suggests to Superman that it may be too powerful for the heroes to destroy.\n\nIn January 2011, Steel featured in a one-shot comic, written by \"Doctor Who\" novelist Steve Lyons. Sean Chen was initially announced as the artist, but due to scheduling problems, Ed Benes took over the art duties. Steel finds himself the only person who can defend Metropolis from an attack by Doomsday. During the battle, Doomsday inexplicably develops metallic armor and the power of flight, countering Steel's own abilities. Steel attempts to immobilize Doomsday with nanites, but he quickly overcomes them, and badly beats him. Doomsday then picks up Steel's prone form and flies off with him. When Steel awakens to find himself in a dimensional prison with Superboy, Supergirl, the Eradicator, and Hank Henshaw/Cyborg Superman(David Harewood from the CW's Supergirl) all of whom have been captured by Doomsday, he speculates that Henshaw was included in the group to keep them divided and prevent them working together to find a way of escaping. Their subsequent exploration of their prison reveals that they were actually captured by clones of Doomsday created by Lex Luthor to distract Earth's heroes while he sought the power of the Black Lantern Ring(The Lantern of Death) each Doomsday clone designed to eliminate the Superman it was sent after.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, John Henry Irons first appears in Grant Morrison's \"Action Comics\" as a young scientist working on the government's \"Steel Soldier\" program. He retaliates after seeing the mistreatment of Superman by Lex Luthor (who was under the command of General Sam Lane to torture him). Irons immediately quits. When John Corben goes on a rampage after donning the government's \"Metal 0\" suit, John Henry aids Superman in fighting him off by using his own prototype armor for the first time, uploading a virus into the Metal 0 suit that he designed specifically to shut it down in the event of the user going rogue.\n\nJohn Henry also shows up in \"Animal Man\" during the Rotworld crossover, where he assists Buddy Baker when the world has been overrun by The Rot, the elemental force of decay.\n\nBrainiac used Doomsday to infect Superman and distract the world as Cyborg Superman and himself tried to steal the minds of every person on earth. As that transpires Steel teams up with Lana Lang to help Superman and stop Brainiac. Afterwards Lana and John began to date.\n\nSteel is recruited when Warworld appears above the Earth. He is partnered with Batgirl and secretly inserted onto the planet in order to neutralize its main threat, a planet cracking gun. They manage to do so with moments to spare.\n\nJohn Henry Irons is an engineer, and a natural athlete who frequently displays an impressive degree of strength. In addition, he wears a suit of powered armor which grants him flight, enhanced strength, and endurance. Steel modified his suit many times through his career. The initial \"Man of Steel\" design was armed with a wrist-mounted rivet gun and the sledgehammer (like the one used by his namesake John Henry) that was ubiquitous for most of his designs. The original design on his breastplate featured a metal version of Superman's \"S\" insignia in tribute to the (temporarily) deceased hero, which Irons removed after the return of Superman. Two later armor designs incorporated a similar, but different, \"S\" symbol. A large hammer is also a key weapon in the suit's arsenal. His most current \"smart hammer\" hits harder the farther it is thrown, is capable of independent flight, and has an on-board computer guidance and analysis system capable of detecting a target's stress points.\n\nWhen he wore the Entropy Aegis, he had god-like strength and durability and could enlarge himself to giant size. He also had the ability of flight due to energy wings, could travel through time and space at will, and could fire blasts of energy that would reduce a target to its composite elements. However, the Aegis made him very violent and was slowly erasing his soul.\n\nDuring the 52 event, John Henry Irons was altered by the \"Everyman Project\" and had become composed of stainless steel due to Lex Luthor tampering with John's DNA without John's consent. Steel's strength and durability were now on a superhuman level. In addition, he could generate enough heat to turn metal fluid (including his own body, which he can then drip off of himself in small amounts). In \"52\" Week 29, the metal skin peeled off completely, leaving him, again, a normal human. He has since returned to using powered armor of a design similar to his original \"Man of Steel\" armor.\n\nIn the DC Comics miniseries \"\", a black man, John Wilson, takes on the name \"John Henry\" while donning a black hood secured by a hangman's noose and produces a sledge hammer in an attempt to avenge his family, who were murdered by the KKK. He kills two Klansmen and injures many more before being injured; while hiding in a barn he is discovered by a young white girl. He is then killed by the Klansmen. John Henry Irons is seen in the epilogue reading near John Henry's gravestone. This serves to further emotionally connect the hero Steel and his namesake to the folk hero.\n\nIn the events of the Elseworlds' \"Kingdom Come\" series, Steel is seen to have joined Batman's faction, due to Superman's self-imposed exile. His suit now owes its stylings to Batman, rather than Superman, and he carries a Bat-shaped axe rather than his hammer.\n\nIn the story \"Hyper-Tension\", in the comic \"Superboy\" vol. 3 #62, it shows a Steel in an alternate reality who joins Black Zero, an alternate adult version of Superboy (Kon-El) in a war for clone rights.\n\nIn an Elseworlds tale featured in \"Steel Annual\" #1, \"Steel: Crucible of Freedom\", John Henry is a slave and blacksmith who builds a suit of armor for his master to fight in the Civil War. However, as his master will not sit for measurements, John is forced to fit the suit to himself, and uses it to lead the slaves in a revolt when his infant son and the children of the other slaves drown due to the carelessness of the Overseer. The story's epilogue tells how, after years spent fighting for his fellow slaves' freedom and traveling the expanding United States, this John Henry goes on to become the \"steel drivin' man\" of American folklore.\n\nIn the crossover \"\", Superman was temporarily transferred into the future of the Terminator universe, where he encountered an older version of Steel who fought alongside John Connor's resistance against Skynet as one of the last costumed heroes, noting that many heroes died in Skynet's attack and he operated on his own until meeting the Resistance. Although old by this point, Steel remained as intelligent as ever, having fitted his hammer with a voice-activation and anti-gravity unit that allowed him to call his hammer to him in the event he was ever captured, using this ability when he and Superman are briefly captured by Skynet.\n\nIn the prequel comic to \"Injustice 2\", it's revealed that John Henry died when the Joker nuked Metropolis. His niece Natasha became the new Steel in his place. When the president-elect asked her if she was comfortable wearing Superman's symbol after the impact the Regime left on the planet, Natasha tells him that it's her uncle's symbol and that she wears it for him. \n\nIn the \"JLA/Avengers\" crossover, Steel plays a minor role, developing a battery pack for the Flash so that he has access to his powers while in the Marvel Universe—since the Speed Force does not exist in the Marvel Universe, Steel's device allows Wally to \"absorb\" Speed Force energy while he runs in the DC Universe that he can use when in the Marvel Universe—later appearing on Paradise Island alongside the Flash to stop the Vision, Quicksilver, and the Scarlet Witch from acquiring the Evil Eye of Avalon. He then participates in the fight against Krona's minions in the final battle, fighting Atlanteans alongside Namor, Beast, Plastic Man, and Maxima.\n\n\n\nSteel makes an appearance in issue #02 of the comic book tie-in of \"Justice League Unlimited\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30821476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30821476", "title": "Super Sad True Love Story", "text": "Super Sad True Love Story\n\nSuper Sad True Love Story is the third novel by American writer Gary Shteyngart. The novel takes place in a near-future dystopian New York where life is dominated by media and retail.\n\nThe son of a Russian immigrant, protagonist Leonard (Lenny) Abramov, a middle-aged, middle class, otherwise unremarkable man whose mentality is still in the past century, falls madly in love with Eunice Park, a young Korean-American struggling with materialism and the pressures of her traditional Korean family. The chapters alternate between profuse diary entries from the old-fashioned Lenny and Eunice's biting e-mail correspondence on her \"GlobalTeens\" account. In the background of what appears to be a love story that oscillates between superficiality and despair, a grim political situation unravels. America is on the brink of economic collapse, threatened by its Chinese creditors. In the meantime, the totalitarian Bipartisan government's main mission is to encourage and promote consumerism while eliminating political dissidents.\n\nThe novel won the \"Salon\" Book Award (Fiction, 2010) and the Bollinger Everyman Wodehouse Prize (2011). It was a \"New York Times\" Notable Book of the Year (Fiction & Poetry, 2010), \"New York Times\" bestseller (Fiction, 2010), and Amazon's Best Books of the Month in August 2010. It was named one of the best books of the year by numerous publications, including \"The Washington Post\", \"The Boston Globe\", \"San Francisco Chronicle\", \"\", Maureen Corrigan of \"NPR\", and \"Slate\". The literary critic Raymond Malewitz has recently published an article on \"digital posthumanism\" in the novel in the journal Arizona Quarterly.\n\nBen Stiller and Media Rights Capital are producing a TV series for Showtime.\n\n"}
{"id": "28259188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28259188", "title": "Theo Alexander", "text": "Theo Alexander\n\nTheodoros \"Thodoris\" Zoumpoulidis (Greek: Θεόδωρος \"Θοδωρής\" Ζουμπουλίδης; born c. 1981), best known as Theo Alexander and also known as Theodore Zoumpoulidis (sometimes spelled Zouboulidis), is a Greek actor appearing on stage, in film and on television.\nHe had a role in the 2007 Greek film \"El Greco\", but is perhaps best known internationally for his multi-episode appearance as Talbot in U.S. supernatural drama series \"True Blood\".\n\nHe was born Theodoros Zoumpoulidis in Greece.\n\nAlexander received a Bachelor of Arts degree in business science from Boston University, and then enrolled to study acting in New York City, New York, at the Circle in the Square Theatre School, a private drama school associated with the Circle in the Square Theatre and, as such, the only accredited school attached to a Broadway theatre. He first appeared in television series such as CSI: NY and Pushing Daisies, but his career took off in 2007 with the episode \"Chuck vs. the sausages\" of the television series \"Chuck\", where he played the role of the Greek mafioso Demitrios Stavros.\n\nIn 2010 Alexander began working on a self-written project, \"Love and Let Die\". He was also working on other projects as a producer and writer.\n\nAlexander enjoys martial arts and kick-boxing.\n"}
{"id": "424509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424509", "title": "USS Grampus (1821)", "text": "USS Grampus (1821)\n\nUSS \"Grampus\" was a schooner in the United States Navy. She was the first U.S. Navy ship to be named for the \"Grampus griseus\", also known as Risso's Dolphin.\n\n\"Grampus\" was built at the Washington Navy Yard under the supervision of naval constructor William Doughty, based on a design by Henry Eckford. Her keel was laid down in 1820. She was launched in early August 1821. The need to suppress piracy and to maintain ships to catch slavers led to the building of five such schooners, the largest of which was \"Grampus\". This was the first building program undertaken by the Navy since the War of 1812.\n\nLieutenant Francis Gregory commanded \"Grampus\" on her first cruise as part of the West Indies Squadron, which took her to the Antilles in pursuit of pirates. In the company of , , , , and , \"Grampus\" engaged in convoying merchant vessels throughout 1821, the presence of the squadron having a marked effect on piratical activity among the islands.\n\nOn 16 August 1822, \"Grampus\" fought a brig flying Spanish colors, but which Lt. Gregory suspected was a pirate. When he called upon her commander to surrender, he was met with cannon and small arms fire. \"Grampus\" answered in turn, and reduced the bogus Spaniard to a floating wreck in 3½ minutes. The brig struck her colors and Lt. Gregory discovered that she was \"Palmyra\", a Puerto Rico-based pirate carrying the papers of a privateer as a subterfuge.\n\nIn 1825, Captain John D. Sloat — commander of \"Grampus\" — engaged another Puerto Rican pirate, Roberto Cofresí, in battle. Cofresí was captured along with eleven members of his crew, and they were turned over to the Spanish government. Cofresí was jailed in El Castillo del Morro in San Juan.\n\n\"Grampus\" had a small part in the \"Amistad\" trials: in November-December 1839, the U.S. government had \"Grampus\" standing by in New Haven Harbor, so that if the court ruled in favor of the slaves' Spanish \"owners,\" they could deport the Africans to Cuba before they could file an appeal. However, the district judge ruled that the Africans had been illegally enslaved and must be returned to Africa. It was the government that appealed on behalf of the slaveholders, and \"Grampus\" was not needed.\n\n\"Grampus\" continued her duties in the protection of shipping in the Caribbean Sea and in the South Atlantic Ocean until August 1841, when she was detached from the Africa Squadron while lying at Boston Navy Yard and attached to the Home Squadron at Norfolk, Virginia on 23 January 1843.\n\n\"Grampus\" was last spoken to by off St. Augustine, Florida on 15 March 1843. She is presumed to have foundered in a gale off Charleston, South Carolina with all hands.\n\nAuthor Herman Melville created a fictional whaling ship in his novel Moby-Dick by the name of \"Grampus\", its crew briefly mentioned in Chapter 3 as they enter the Spouter Inn after a three years voyage. Although no connection to the U.S. Navy's \"Grampus\" seems to be intended, nor is it even remotely implied, it is still interesting to note that the real \"Grampus\" disappeared while Melville was serving in the Navy aboard the , the topic of its loss possibly a subject among Melville's shipmates. The enigmatic character of Bulkington disappears from the Spouter Inn in the midst of the \"Grampus\" crew's revelries, his shipmates pursuing him into the night with cries of \"Where's Bulkington?\" Later in the book Bulkington turns up as a crewman on board the Pequod, the narrator Ishmael noting it would be Bulkington's fate to die at sea, but never mentioning him again in the book.\n"}
{"id": "47364242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47364242", "title": "Ulk (dog)", "text": "Ulk (dog)\n\nUlk (1932–1942) was a Great Dane owned by Chilean President Arturo Alessandri during his second presidency. Eventually Ulk became the symbol of his government, appearing in numerous photographs of the epoch.\n\n"}
{"id": "7628520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7628520", "title": "William Jay Gaynor", "text": "William Jay Gaynor\n\nWilliam Jay Gaynor (February 2, 1849 – September 10, 1913) was an American politician from New York City, associated with the Tammany Hall political machine. He served as the 94th mayor of the City of New York from 1910 to 1913, and previously as a New York Supreme Court Justice from 1893 to 1909. As mayor he was noted as a reformer who broke ranks and refused to take orders from the Tammany boss Charles Francis Murphy.\n\nGaynor was born in Oriskany, New York, on February 2, 1849 to Keiron and Elizabeth (Handwright) Gaynor. He grew up on a farm with seven siblings. As a boy, he developed an interest in wandering the countryside where they lived, exploring nature and trying to figure out why things were the way they were.\n\nHe was a studious boy, a trait which his father encouraged. As he was on the clumsy side, when it came to farmwork, his brother Tom usually took on the heavier chores. For his education, he first attended the local public school, then was sent to the Whiteboro Seminary. The Gaynor family were Irish and devout Roman Catholics, thus, when weather permitted, on Sundays they would head to the nearby city of Utica to attend Mass at St. John's Church on Bleecker Street. As William entered his teenage years, he began to show a religious fervor that led his parents to think that he might have a vocation to the Church. Both to test this, and for reasons of affordability, he was enrolled in the Assumption Academy in Utica. This was staffed by the Brothers of the Christian Schools, who had recently come to the United States from France in 1848. William flourished in that school, and soon decided that he did indeed wish to become a member of their religious congregation.\n\nIn December 1863, he was sent to New York City to enter the novitiate of the congregation. This was located at 44 East 2nd Street. The date of birth he gave at his admission was February 2, 1848, thus he was still fifteen at the time he was received. He was given the habit of the Institute, and named Brother Adrian Denys. He spent the next four years in this house, both in training and soon in teaching in nearby parish schools. In 1868, he was one of a group of Brothers chosen to be sent to San Francisco to take care of St. Mary's College there. They sailed from New York on July 16, aboard the .\n\nBy this time, however, as well as the usual readings in history, philosophy and the Church Fathers suggested to the Brothers, Gaynor had been reading and absorbing the reflection of a wide range of writers, mostly the ancient Stoic philosophers. One lifetime favorite which he found was the \"Autobiography\" of Benjamin Franklin, where he found much that resonated with his own way of thinking. The book was to be his lifelong companion. As a result, however, by the time the small group of Brothers had arrived at their destination, Gaynor had lost his belief in organized Christianity and had decided to leave the Institute. Because of his youth, he had never taken religious vows, as he was too young to do so under the regulations of the Brothers, thus there was no canonical impediment to his departure.\n\nHe made his way back home to Utica, where his family now lived, arriving late that same year. How he managed that journey he never shared, other than to say that it had not been an easy or pleasant experience. His father welcomed him back and helped him to secure a position with the law firm of Horatio and John Seymour, that he might learn enough law to read for the bar. This was to be the start of his entry into the political arena, as Horatio Seymour had recently served as Governor of New York, and had just run as the Democratic Party's candidate for President of the United States against Ulysses S. Grant.\n\nGaynor would disappoint Tammany Hall when they nominated him for mayor in 1909. Elected to the New York State Supreme Court in 1893, and appointed to the Appellate Division, Second Department in 1905, Gaynor's rulings were often cited around the country. His reputation as an honest reformer helped win him election as mayor in 1909. \nOn January 1, 1910, he walked to City Hall from his home in Brooklyn (#20 Eighth Avenue, Park Slope) – it was the first time he had ever visited the seat of city government – and addressed the 1,500 people gathered to greet him: \"I enter upon this office with the intention of doing the very best I can for the City of New York. That will have to suffice; I can do no more.\"\n\nIn 1910 his daughter, Edith Augusta Gaynor, married Harry Kermit Vingut. They divorced in 1919 and she then married James Park. One of his granddaughters, Jean Rennard, married actor Fred Gwynne.\n\nGaynor's marriage with Tammany Hall was short-lived; soon after taking office, he filled high level government posts with experts and city employees were chosen from civil service lists in the order they appeared, effectively curbing patronage and nepotism. As mayor, he railed against efforts to thwart the further development of the New York City Subway system. A strong willed but compassionate mayor, Gaynor once remarked, \"The world does not grow better by force or by the policeman's club.\"\n\nH. L. Mencken, who covered the police beat and City Hall of Baltimore in his early days as a reporter, and so learned to know the good, the bad and the ugly of the species, had great respect for Gaynor both as a judge and as mayor. \"Gaynor was that great rarity in American political history: a judge who actually believed in the Bill of Rights. When he sat on the bench in Brooklyn he tried to enforce it to the letter, to the natural scandal of his brethren of the ermine. Scarcely a day went by that he did not denounce the police for their tyrannies. He turned loose hundreds of prisoners, raged and roared from the bench, and wrote thousands of letters on the subject, many of them magnificent expositions of Jeffersonian doctrine. Unfortunately, his strange ideas alarmed the general run of respectable New Yorkers quite as much as they alarmed his fellow judges, and so he was always in hot water. When Tammany, with sardonic humor, made him mayor, he began an heroic but vain effort to give New York decent government. He might as well have tried to make the stockyards of Chicago smell like a field of asphodel. In the end, worn out and embittered by the struggle, he died unlamented, and today political historians scarcely mention him. Yet he was a great political philosopher and a great soul. It is the tragedy of the Republic that such men are so few, and that their efforts, when they appear, go for so little.\"\n\nGaynor read the first edition of Henry George's famous treatise \"Progress and Poverty\" said that Georgism was the \"perfect\" and \"optimal\" system (\"admitted by philosophers and economists the world over\"). However, he objected to what he perceived as George's intent to take all land rent for public use at once. Instead, Gaynor favored a slow transition over many years. He was unaware of fact that removing other taxes would increase land rent, yet by his calculations there was enough land rent to replace all taxes with a land value tax.\n\nEarly in his term, Gaynor was shot in the throat by James J. Gallagher, a discharged city employee who had been a New York dock Night Watchman from April 7, 1903, to July 19, 1910. Gaynor remains the only New York City mayor to be hit by a bullet during an assassination attempt. The violent incident happened on board the Europe-bound , which was docked at Hoboken, New Jersey. Gallagher died in a prison in Trenton, New Jersey, from paresis on February 4, 1913, the same year as Gaynor's death. Observing Gaynor in conversation, \"New York World\" photographer William Warnecke snapped what he thought would be a typical, if uneventful, photo of the new Mayor. Instead, Warnecke captured the very moment that Gallagher, at point-blank range, shot a bullet through Gaynor's neck. The rarely seen snapshot remains one of the most highly praised photographs in the history of photojournalism.\n\nAlthough Gaynor quickly recovered, the bullet remained lodged in his throat for the next three years. During his term as mayor, Gaynor was widely considered a strong candidate for Governor or President. Tammany Hall refused to nominate him for reelection to a second term, but after accepting the nomination from an independent group of voters, he set sail for Europe aboard . Six days later, on September 10, 1913, Gaynor died suddenly on a deck chair aboard the liner. After his death, doctors concluded that he died of a heart attack, and that his old wound was at most a minor contributing factor. Gaynor is interred at Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nThe Fire Department of New York operated a fireboat named \"William J. Gaynor\" from 1914 to 1961.\n\nExplanatory notes\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "44603139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44603139", "title": "Yaser Abdel Said", "text": "Yaser Abdel Said\n\nYaser Abdel Said (born January 27, 1957) is a fugitive on the FBI Ten Most Wanted List. An Egyptian resident of the United States, he is wanted for the murder of his two teenage daughters in Irving, Texas.\n\nSaid, who is reported to have been very controlling of his family, is believed to have felt that his daughters, Amina, 18, and Sarah, 17, had dishonored the family by refusing to adhere to traditional standards of Egyptian cultural behavior. On January 1, 2008, he lured them into his taxi cab on the pretense of taking them out to eat, and shot them in the cab. Said has evaded police capture, and remains at large.\n\nYaser Said married Patricia \"Tissie\" Owens in February 1987; he was 30 and she was 15. Patricia had later alleged that Yaser had abused her during their marriage. Amina was born in 1989, whilst Sarah was born in 1990. They also had an older son named Islam Said who was born in 1988 and another daughter from a previous woman born 1987.\n\nThe girls confessed to a few friends that the abuse continued. \"He treats me like a whore,\" Sarah wrote in an instant message conversation to a friend. On several occasions, Amina appeared at school with bruises, and at one point, had a split lip. Amina informed her friends that the wounds were inflicted by her father, and her mother refused to allow her to seek medical attention.\n\nYaser would often spy on his daughters, often by video or audio-taping them without their knowledge. Amina stated she was afraid of using the public telephone \"because he [Yaser] gets in everywhere, he knows everything\". She also reportedly wrote in emails that her father intended to kill her. When she was 16, Yaser took Amina to Egypt, allegedly to arrange a marriage to a much older friend of his, but Amina rejected the marriage. Sarah got an after-school job working in a convenience store. Yaser soon video-taped her at work and punished her for smiling too much at the customers.\n\nAmina began dating a boy who she met while taking Taekwondo classes. When Yaser was out of the country, she felt anxious about meeting her boyfriend, imagining that Yaser would be watching her with binoculars. Amina advised her boyfriend not to call or text her if she sent a codeword to him, because Yaser would go through her phone. Soon afterwards, Yaser found a note that she had written to her boyfriend. Amina told him that the writings were to an imaginary boyfriend. Yaser, not trusting Amina, continued his search in order to uncover Amina's relationship.\n\nYaser moved his family to a new house in Lewisville, Texas, prompting Amina to make plans to run away with her boyfriend, get married in Vegas, and start a new life. Her boyfriend then quit high school in order to earn money working, so that he could save up enough money in order to help her leave. Her boyfriend had also stated: \"[Yaser] regularly threatened to kill Amina, and she knew he meant it.\" Amina was worried that her boyfriend would be killed by her father, and she refused to give her father his name while she was beaten, following Yaser's persistent accusations.\n\nAfter Christmas, Amina and Sarah ran away with their mother, Patricia, to Tulsa, Oklahoma, where Amina's boyfriend had relatives. Patricia had allegedly told her daughters that December 31 was her mother's death anniversary and that she wanted to drive to East Texas to put flowers on her grave, later telling them they would return to Yaser. Sarah reluctantly went, while Amina refused. Patricia drove to Amina's friend's house and pounded on the door, starting an argument with Amina to try and convince her to return to Yaser. Amina still refused to go. Patricia insisted and stood unmoved in the doorway, saying that her father had forgiven her and would like the girls to return home.\n\nOn January 1, 2008, Yaser took Amina and Sarah to his taxi cab, and kissed them, telling them he was taking them out to eat. Patricia had wanted to come along, but Yaser had told her that he wanted to talk to the girls alone. He drove them both to Irving, where he allegedly shot both girls to death in the taxi cab. Amina instantly died, while Sarah managed to call 911 before she died, stating \"Help, my dad shot me! I'm dying, I'm dying!\". Yaser's taxi was soon discovered by another cab driver outside a hotel.\n\nFollowing the murders, Yaser vanished, although there is no record of him flying to Egypt. The FBI believes that Yaser may now be driving a cab in New York City. A cab driver reported that he may have seen Yaser driving a cab in Newark Airport. \nSome people have also allegedly seen Yaser in New York City driving a light colored or champagne colored older Mercedes and working as a cab driver in 2014 and FBI was informed of this. \nOn December 4, 2014, Yaser was added to the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list, with a $100,000 reward with any information leading to the arrest of Yaser.\n"}
