{"id": "10047141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10047141", "title": "Alonso Sánchez", "text": "Alonso Sánchez\n\nAlonso Sánchez (with full name Alonso Sánchez de Huelva) was a fifteenth-century mariner and merchant born in Huelva, Spain, on Andalusia's Atlantic coast. Legend has it that he was a mariner who reached America several years before Christopher Columbus did.\n\nAfter the discovery of America several rumors started to spread especially among the conquistadores, claiming that America had not been discovered by Columbus, but that its existence was known at least 20 years before 1492. Bartolomé de las Casas had indeed heard several of those claims, but limited himself to record them.\n\nThe most famous of those accounts is that of the Duchess of Medina Sidonia, who believed that Columbus' discovery was the instrument by means of which the Catholic Monarchs of Spain were able to officialize the discovery (supposedly made well before 1492, and kept secret hitherto). According to the Duchess, the international political situation of the second half of the 15th century was not favourable to the Catholics Monarchs, who before 1492 would have faced strong opposition to any claim over the newly found lands, especially from Portugal, France and the Holy See, the later two at war with the Kingdom of Aragon. In order to ensure the ownership of those new lands, and lacking the resources for facing the consequences of an early claim, they waited until 1492, when Alexander VI, a Spaniard, was elected pope, thus ensuring the papacy siding with them. In 1492 they would have sent Columbus on an official voyage to the West, knowing that he would find new territories and lay claim for them in the name of the Catholics Monarchs. The Duchess believed Alonso Sanchez to be the true discoverer, offering several stories, contemporary records and weak proofs for her claims.\n\nIndeed, any of those stories are widely regarded as false, and it is believed that the one about Alonso Sanchez was probably spread either by Pinzón brothers to discredit Columbus in his later years, or by political enemies of Columbus' family during the first years of Spanish settlement in America. Several authors, including father Bartolomé de las Casas, took notice of rumors and stories similar to those of Alonso Sánchez, although it was not until 1602 when Inca Garcilaso de la Vega (1539-1616), named the mariner \"Alonso Sánchez\", claiming that he had heard Alonso's story from some old conquistadores still alive in Garcilaso's youth.\n\nAccording to the tale told by Inca Garcilaso de la Vega, Alonso Sánchez used to sail quite often between the Canary Islands, Madeira and England engaged in some sort of triangular commerce. In the 1480s, while finally returning to Huelva from Madeira aboard one of his ships, he was surprised by a storm that blew his ship drastically off-course into unknown waters of the mid-Atlantic. The small ship, slightly damaged by the storm, encountered unfavorable winds and currents that dragged it further to the southwest. After several weeks, Sánchez and his frightened crew finally sighted land, probably the island of Hispaniola (Santo Domingo).\n\nSánchez and his crew continued beating along the unknown coast until they encountered signs of human habitation, and, at long last, they disembarked at a coastal village where they were hospitably received. The natives were impressed with these strangers chiefly because they were taller in stature than themselves and bearded. (The natives were uniformly beardless.) More significantly, the natives communicated to the Spaniards that their mythos held that, eventually, their gods would come from the sea to visit them. The natives gave their \"divine\" visitors food and gold; they even offered the strangers their women as gifts. (Some believe that syphilis was introduced to the Old World through these acts of generosity.)\n\nAfter a short sojourn among the natives, the Spaniards began to prepare for their return trip. Sánchez made certain calculations based on his ship's log and his estimates of his ship's course on its outbound leg. The return voyage required about a month at sea, and they hardly made it to Porto Santo Island, in Madeira. It was while recovering from their voyage in Porto Santo where Alonso met Christopher Columbus (who really lived there during the 1480s), to whom he related the story of his amazing adventure.\n\nSome believe that the information provided by Sánchez, concerning headings and distances, influenced Columbus's plans. Others believe that Alonso Sánchez never existed and that he was simply part of an attempt by the Pinzón brothers to discredit Columbus's skills as a navigator.\n\nIndeed, no document from the time tells about any Alonso Sánchez from Huelva, and everything known about him comes from the writers that told his story well after Columbus death. More indeed, several authors have claim Alonso Sánchez to be from Portugal, Biscay or some other parts of Andalusia. However, some historians, starting with José Ceballos in 1762, have claimed the account by Inca Garcilaso de la Vega to be true.\n\nIn the city of Huelva, Sánchez's purported birthplace, there are a number of memorials to this little-known pioneering navigator. There is a statue of Alonso Sánchez in the city park that commemorates the voyages of Columbus, 12 October Park, it is a work of the sculptor León Ortega. There is also a smaller park in Huelva named for him, as well as a public high school.\n\n"}
{"id": "965387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965387", "title": "Bathymetry", "text": "Bathymetry\n\nBathymetry is the study of underwater depth of lake or ocean floors. In other words, bathymetry is the underwater equivalent to hypsometry or topography. The name comes from Greek βαθύς (\"bathus\"), \"deep\", and μέτρον (\"metron\"), \"measure\". Bathymetric (or hydrographic) charts are typically produced to support safety of surface or sub-surface navigation, and usually show seafloor relief or terrain as contour lines (called depth contours or isobaths) and selected depths (soundings), and typically also provide surface navigational information. Bathymetric maps (a more general term where navigational safety is not a concern) may also use a Digital Terrain Model and artificial illumination techniques to illustrate the depths being portrayed. The global bathymetry is sometimes combined with topography data to yield a Global Relief Model. Paleobathymetry is the study of past underwater depths.\n\nOriginally, bathymetry involved the measurement of ocean depth through depth sounding. Early techniques used pre-measured heavy rope or cable lowered over a ship's side. This technique measures the depth only a singular point at a time, and is therefore inefficient. It is also subject to movements of the ship and currents moving the line out of true and therefore is not accurate.\n\nThe data used to make bathymetric maps today typically comes from an echosounder (sonar) mounted beneath or over the side of a boat, \"pinging\" a beam of sound downward at the seafloor or from remote sensing LIDAR or LADAR systems. The amount of time it takes for the sound or light to travel through the water, bounce off the seafloor, and return to the sounder informs the equipment of the distance to the seafloor. LIDAR/LADAR surveys are usually conducted by airborne systems.\n\nStarting in the early 1930s, single-beam sounders were used to make bathymetry maps. Today, multibeam echosounders (MBES) are typically used, which use hundreds of very narrow adjacent beams arranged in a fan-like swath of typically 90 to 170 degrees across. The tightly packed array of narrow individual beams provides very high angular resolution and accuracy. In general, a wide swath, which is depth dependent, allows a boat to map more seafloor in less time than a single-beam echosounder by making fewer passes. The beams update many times per second (typically 0.1–50 Hz depending on water depth), allowing faster boat speed while maintaining 100% coverage of the seafloor. Attitude sensors allow for the correction of the boat's roll and pitch on the ocean surface, and a gyrocompass provides accurate heading information to correct for vessel yaw. (Most modern MBES systems use an integrated motion-sensor and position system that measures yaw as well as the other dynamics and position.) A boat-mounted Global Positioning System (GPS) (or other Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS)) positions the soundings with respect to the surface of the earth. Sound speed profiles (speed of sound in water as a function of depth) of the water column correct for refraction or \"ray-bending\" of the sound waves owing to non-uniform water column characteristics such as temperature, conductivity, and pressure. A computer system processes all the data, correcting for all of the above factors as well as for the angle of each individual beam. The resulting sounding measurements are then processed either manually, semi-automatically or automatically (in limited circumstances) to produce a map of the area. a number of different outputs are generated, including a sub-set of the original measurements that satisfy some conditions (e.g., most representative likely soundings, shallowest in a region, etc.) or integrated Digital Terrain Models (DTM) (e.g., a regular or irregular grid of points connected into a surface). Historically, selection of measurements was more common in hydrographic applications while DTM construction was used for engineering surveys, geology, flow modeling, etc. Since ca. 2003–2005, DTMs have become more accepted in hydrographic practice.\n\nSatellites are also used to measure bathymetry. Satellite radar maps deep-sea topography by detecting the subtle variations in sea level caused by the gravitational pull of undersea mountains, ridges, and other masses. On average, sea level is higher over mountains and ridges than over abyssal plains and trenches.\n\nIn the United States the United States Army Corps of Engineers performs or commissions most surveys of navigable inland waterways, while the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) performs the same role for ocean waterways. Coastal bathymetry data is available from NOAA's National Geophysical Data Center (NGDC), which is now merged into National Centers for Environmental Information. Bathymetric data is usually referenced to tidal vertical datums. For deep-water bathymetry, this is typically Mean Sea Level (MSL), but most data used for nautical charting is referenced to Mean Lower Low Water (MLLW) in American surveys, and Lowest Astronomical Tide (LAT) in other countries. Many other datums are used in practice, depending on the locality and tidal regime.\n\nOccupations or careers related to bathymetry include the study of oceans and rocks and minerals on the ocean floor, and the study of underwater earthquakes or volcanoes. The taking and analysis of bathymetric measurements is one of the core areas of modern hydrography, and a fundamental component in ensuring the safe transport of goods worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29696485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29696485", "title": "Cape Torson", "text": "Cape Torson\n\nCape Torson () is a point at the east side of Posadowsky Bay on the coast of Antarctica. First mapped from air photos taken by U.S. Navy Operation Highjump, 1946-47. Remapped by the Soviet expedition 1956, who named it after Lieutenant K.P. Torson, of the ship Vostok in the Bellingshausen expedition 1819-21.\n"}
{"id": "58397799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58397799", "title": "Central USD 462", "text": "Central USD 462\n\nCentral USD 462 is a unified school district headquartered in Burden, Kansas, United States. \n\n"}
{"id": "41120934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41120934", "title": "Chiantishire", "text": "Chiantishire\n\nChiantishire is an informal nickname given to an area of Tuscany, Italy, where many upper class British citizens have moved or usually spend their holidays. The word is a late 20th century neologism and derives from Chianti, a red wine produced in central Tuscany, in particular in the provinces of Siena and Florence.\nThe location rose to prominence in the UK in the mid 1990s when then Prime Minister Tony Blair chose it as one of his preferred summer retreats. Celebrities that have owned properties in the area include Sting, Bryan Ferry, Antonio Banderas and Richard Gere.\n\nThe Foreign & Commonwealth Office estimated in 2012 that there were 28,000 Britons living in Italy.\n"}
{"id": "18855722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18855722", "title": "Climate of Gibraltar", "text": "Climate of Gibraltar\n\nThe climate of Gibraltar is Mediterranean/Subtropical with mild winters and warm summers. Gibraltar has two main prevailing winds, an easterly one known as the \"Levante\" coming from the Sahara in Africa which brings humid weather and warmer sea currents and the other as \"Poniente\" which is westerly and brings fresher air and colder sea. Its terrain consists of the high Rock of Gibraltar and the narrow coastal lowland surrounding it. Rain occurs mainly in winter, the summers are generally dry.\n\nAverage morning relative humidity: 82%, evening relative humidity: 64%. Sunshine hours is till 2,778 per year, from 150 in November (~5 hours of sunshine per day) to 341 in July (~11 hours of sunshine per day).\n\nIts average annual temperature is : during the day and at night. In the coldest month - January, the typically temperature ranges from during the day and at night (sometimes above and below these temperatures), the average sea temperature is . In the warmest month - August, the typically temperature ranges from during the day, above at night, the average sea temperature is . Average number of days above is 181, average number of days above is 5-6 (2 in July, 3 in August). The highest temperature ever recorded is on July 5, 1994 while the lowest temperature ever recorded is on January 13, 1978. \n\n"}
{"id": "52989868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52989868", "title": "Derebucak Çamlık Caves", "text": "Derebucak Çamlık Caves\n\nDerebucak Çamlık Caves () are a group of several caves located in Konya Province, central Turkey. They are registered together a natural monument of the country.\n\nDerebucak Çamlık Caves are a group of 13 caves in total located at Çamlık town of Derebucak district in Konya Province. The caves are registered a natural monument in 2013. The area of the caves covers .\n"}
{"id": "53383921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53383921", "title": "Elisabeth Lichtenberger", "text": "Elisabeth Lichtenberger\n\nElisabeth Lichtenberger (17 February 1925 – 14 February 2017) was an Austrian geographer. Her research focus was on urban geography and mountain research, particularly in Central and Eastern Europe and North America. She taught at the University of Vienna, and was awarded the Austrian Decoration for Science and Art in 1999. She was a fellow of the British Academy, a member of Academia Europaea and the Austrian Academy of Sciences, and holder of honorary doctorates from the University of Chicago and Leipzig University.\n\nBorn in Vienna on 17 February 1925, she died on 14 February 2017, aged 91.\n"}
{"id": "38271431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38271431", "title": "Gaza District", "text": "Gaza District\n\nGaza District was one of the districts of Mandatory Palestine.\n\nIn 1939 it consisted of two subdistricts:\n"}
{"id": "56706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56706", "title": "Geography of Malaysia", "text": "Geography of Malaysia\n\nThe geography of Malaysia deals with the physical and human geography of Malaysia, a Southeast Asian country. There are two major parts to this country, Peninsular Malaysia to the west and East Malaysia to the east, in additional numerous smaller islands surrounding both landmasses. Peninsular Malaysia is situated on the southernmost section of the Malay Peninsula, south of Thailand, north of Singapore and east of the Indonesian island of Sumatra; East Malaysia comprises most of the northern part of Borneo island, with land borders shared with Brunei to the north and Indonesian Borneo which is to the south.\n\nLocated near the equator, Malaysia's climate is categorised as equatorial, being hot and humid throughout the year. The average rainfall is a year and the average temperature is . The climates of the Peninsula and the East differ, as the climate on the peninsula is directly affected by wind from the mainland, as opposed to the more maritime weather of the East. Malaysia is exposed to the El Niño effect, which reduces rainfall in the dry season. Climate change is likely to have a significant effect on Malaysia, increasing sea levels and rainfall, increasing flooding risks and leading to large droughts.\n\nMalaysia faces two monsoon winds seasons, the Southwest Monsoon from April to September, and the Northeast Monsoon from October to March. The Northeast Monsoon brings in more rainfall compared to the Southwest Monsoon, originating in China and the north Pacific. The southwest monsoon originates from the deserts of Australia. March and October form transitions between the two monsoons.\n\nLocal climates are affected by the presence of mountain ranges throughout Malaysia, and climate can be divided into that of the highlands, the lowlands, and coastal regions. The coasts have a sunny climate, with temperatures ranging between , and rainfall ranging from a month. The lowlands have a similar temperature, but follow a more distinctive rainfall pattern and show very high humidity levels. The highlands are cooler and wetter, and display a greater temperature variation. A large amount of cloud cover is present over the highlands, which have humidity levels that do not fall below 75%.\n\nThe highest temperature was recorded at Chuping, Perlis on 9 April 1998 at . The lowest temperature (Official) was recorded at Cameron Highlands on 1 February 1978 at . The highest rainfall recorded in a day was in Kota Bharu, Kelantan on 6 January 1967. The highest rainfall recorded in a year was at Sandakan, Sabah in 2006. Meanwhile, the lowest rainfall recorded in a year was at Tawau, Sabah in 1997. The wettest place in Malaysia is Kuching, Sarawak with an average rainfall of with 279 days of rain a year. The driest place in Malaysia is in Sitiawan, Perak with average rainfall of only a year.\n\nMalaysia is located on the Sunda shelf, and is tectonically inactive. The oldest rocks in the country date from 540 million years ago, and are mostly sedimentary. The most common form of rock is limestone, formed during the Paleozoic Era. Limestone laid down in East Malaysia during the Tertiary period has since eroded, and such erosion forms basins of sedimentary rocks rich in oil and natural gas. The mountain ranges in Malaysia were formed through orogenesis beginning in the Mesozoic era.\n\nThe total land area of Malaysia is , the 66th largest country in the world in terms of area. It is the only country to contain land on both mainland Asia and the Malay archipelago. Peninsular Malaysia makes up , or almost 40% of the country's land area, while East Malaysia covers , or 60%. From the total land area, or 0.37% is made up of water such as lakes, rivers, or other internal waters. Malaysia has a total coastline of , and Peninsular Malaysia has , while East Malaysia has of coastline.\n\nMalaysia has the 29th longest coastline in the world. The two distinct parts of Malaysia, separated from each other by the South China Sea, share a largely similar landscape in that both West (Peninsular) and East Malaysia feature coastal plains rising to hills and mountains.\nPeninsular Malaysia covers the southern half of the Malay Peninsula, and extends from north to south, and its maximum width is . It is mountainous, with more than half of it over above sea level. About half of Peninsular Malaysia is covered by granite and other igneous rocks, a third more is covered by stratified rocks older than the granite, and the remainder is covered by alluvium.\n\nHarbours are only available on the peninsula's western side, and the most fertile land occurs when river valleys flow out to the sea. The coastal plains bordering the straits of Malacca are the most densely populated areas of Malaysia, and contains Malaysia's capital, Kuala Lumpur.\n\nEast Malaysia, on the island of Borneo, has a coastline of . It is divided between coastal regions, hills and valleys, and a mountainous interior. There are only two major cities, Kuching and Kota Kinabalu. Much of southern Sarawak is coastal lowlands, which shifts to a series of plateaus going north, ending in the mountainous regions of Sabah.\n\nThe highest mountain range in Malaysia is the Crocker Range in Sabah, which divides the state in half. This range includes Mount Kinabalu, the highest mountain in the country, as well as Mount Tambuyukon, the third highest in the country. Mount Kinabalu, at , is the tallest mountain in Malaysia and is protected as Kinabalu National Park, a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nMountain ranges in the East tend to follow north-south or northeast-southwest paths, and the highest ranges form the border between Malaysia and Indonesia. The mountains contain many jagged limestone peaks. The Trus Madi Range, also in Sabah, houses Mount Trus Madi, the second highest peak in Malaysia. Bombalai Hill in Sabah is the only active volcano in Malaysia.\n\nPeninsular Malaysia contains numerous mountain ranges running parallel from north to south along the peninsula. The main mountain range is the Titiwangsa Mountains, which divides the peninsula between its east and west coasts. It houses Mount Korbu, the second highest peak in the Peninsular. These mountains are heavily forested, and mainly composed of granite. The range is the origin of some of Peninsular Malaysia's river systems. To the east of this range is the Bintang Range. The highest peak in the Peninsular is Mount Tahan, located on the Tahan Range.\n\nMalaysia is relative flat, with most of its mountains is not very tall. All mountain in Malaysia (except Mount Kinabalu) is less than in height. In fact, Malaysia have no mountain between in height.\n\nMalaysian forests can be categorised as tropical rainforest. Approximately 58.2% of Malaysian land is covered by forest. A large amount of lowland forest present below an altitude of . East Malaysia, like most of Borneo, was formerly covered with Borneo lowland rain forests with over 2000 tree species. However, much of it has been cleared, due to the increase in logging since the 1960s and the increase of shifting cultivation. Over 80% of Sarawak's forests have been felled, and the logging throughout East Malaysia has polluted waterways, increased erosion, and damaged agriculture. Some state governments have now taken measures to halt the degradation of the rainforest.\n\nMalaysia's rainforest's are made of a variety of types, mainly dipterocarp, swamps, and mangroves. The majority of the forest is dipterocarp forests. Dipterocarps species are centred in Malaysia. There are over of mangroves in Malaysia. Some areas are designated as forest reserves, state parks, or national parks. The management of these reserves as under control of the Department of Wildlife and National Park, the Forest Department of Sarawak, the Sabah Forestry Department, Sabah Foundation, and Sabah Parks. As of 2000, there are two World Heritage Sites under the natural category – Kinabalu National Park and Gunung Mulu National Park.\n\nNumerous caves run through the country due to the karst landscape caused by water eroding limestone. The Mulu Caves in East Malaysia are the largest caves in the world. They are located between the Penambo range and Brunei, and form a major tourist attraction. At long and high the Sarawak Chamber is the largest cave chamber in the world. Other famous caves are the Deer Cave and Lang's Cave.\n\nMalaysia contains numerous islands, the largest of which is Banggi Island in Sabah, which has an area of . It is followed by Betruit Island in Sarawak, Langkawi in Kedah, and Penang Island in Penang. The largest island shared with another country is Borneo, followed by Sebatik Island. In addition, Malaysia lies within the world's coral reef distribution. The reefs can be usually found around islands such as Sipadan Island, Swallow Reef, and Redang Island. Sipadan Island, an underwater mountain, is Malaysia's only oceanic island.\n\nThe southernmost point of Malaysia is located in the district of Serian in Sarawak. Tanjung Piai on the southern tip of Johor is the southernmost point in Peninsular, and thus of the whole of continental Eurasia. The easternmost point is found on the tip of Dent Peninsular in Lahad Datu district in Sabah. The northernmost point is found on the northern tip of Banggi Island. The westernmost point is Perak Island, a sandstone rock which is part of Kedah state that rises at the center of Strait of Malacca.\n\nBetween Peninsular Malaysia and East Malaysia is the South China Sea, the largest body of water around Malaysia. Facing the western coast of Peninsular Malaysia there is the Straits of Malacca towards the south, and the Andaman Sea towards the north. The Strait of Malacca, lying between Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia, is arguably the most important shipping lane in the world. These seas are marginal seas of the Indian Ocean.\n\nOff the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia is the South China Sea, while a small part in the north lies within the Gulf of Thailand. These form part of the marginal seas of the Pacific Ocean. The Straits of Johor off the south of Peninsular acts as a maritime border of Malaysia and Singapore. In East Malaysia, the western coasts of Sabah and Sarawak faces the South China Sea. The northeast coast of Sabah faces the Sulu Sea, while the southeast coast of Sabah faces the Celebes Sea.\n\nMalaysia claims 12 nm () as its territorial waters, which extend into the Coral Triangle. It also claims 200 nm () of exclusive economic zone. In addition, Malaysia claims in the depth of the continental shelf or to the depth of exploration in within the area below the South China Sea known as Sundaland. The territorial claim for the Straits of Malacca is shared between Malaysia and Indonesia in accordance to a treaty signed in 1970 known as the \"Treaty Between the Republic of Indonesia and Malaysia on Determination of boundary Lines of Territorial Waters of the two Nations at the Strait of Malacca\".\n\nThe Bera Lake in Pahang is one of the largest lakes in Malaysia, and one of the only two natural lakes in Malaysia with Chini Lake. Pedu Lake is a long lake located from the Malaysian-Thai border and Kenyir Lake\nis the largest artificial lake in Southeast Asia.\n\nThere are many systems of rivers found around Malaysia. The longest is the Rajang River in Sarawak with a length of . The second longest is the Kinabatangan River in Sabah with a length of . The longest river in the Peninsular Malaysia is Pahang River with a length of .\n\nMalaysia is a megadiverse country, with a high number of species and high levels of endemism. These forests contain the Rafflesia, the largest flower in the world. The clearing of the Borneo lowland rain forests has caused wildlife to retreat into the upland rain forests inland.\n\nMalaysia's geographical location protects the country from most major natural disasters. It is located on a seismically stable plate that minimises direct risks of earthquakes and volcanoes, is partially protected from tsunamis by surrounding landmasses, and is a rare target for tropical cyclones. However, the country's tropical climate opens the country to the risk of flooding, landslides and prolonged droughts.\n\nWith 189 water basins and an average rainfall of over 2000-4000 mm per year, Malaysia is prone to riverine, muddy floods that range from hours-long flash floods, to prolonged flooding on flat, low-lying land along major tributaries and main stems. There have been 15 instances of major flooding in Malaysia since 1926. Flooding has been a major concern in recent decades due to rapid development in river catchment areas that has led to increased surface and river runoffs, increased sediment buildup in rivers, and a higher risk of overflowing rivers. The 2006 and 2007 floods in Johor has resulted in loss of RM1.5 billion and 18 lives in addition to the temporary displacement of 110,000 people.\n\nDue to weak Coriolis forces from its close proximity to the equator, tropical cyclones are extremely rare for the country despite its proximity to the highly active Northwestern Pacific tropical cyclone basin; the only tropical cyclone to significantly affect Malaysia since records began was Tropical Storm Vamei in 2001.\n\nMalaysia is largely seismically stable with little modern history of volcanic activity, being situated entirely on the Sunda tectonic plate, between two major boundaries of the Australian Plate and Eurasian Plate in the west of Peninsular Malaysia, and the Philippine Sea Plate and Eurasian Plate at Bornean Malaysia. While Peninsular Malaysia is more accustomed to only light tremors caused by quakes along the Sumatran islands of Indonesia generated predominantly by the Great Sumatran fault and Sunda megathrust, the Borneon states, particularly Sabah, is at risk of more moderate interplate and intraplate earthquakes as a byproduct of its closer proximity to active tectonic activities from the Ring of Fire, with record earthquakes in the country occurring in the state in 1976 and 2015 at an average of 6.0 M. Bombalai Hill, the only known volcano in the country, is also situated on the eastern edge of Sabah and last erupted approximately 10,000 years ago. As is with Singapore, the effects of tremors are felt more significantly on skyscrapers common in populated centres in Malaysia due to the effects of mechanical resonance.\n\nInterest towards tsunami risks to Malaysia has also heighten since the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake. Although the western coast of Peninsular Malaysia was largely shielded by the Sumatran island from the full effects of waves generated by the earthquake, weaker deflected tsunami waves led to damage and casualties along the northwestern coast of Peninsular Malaysia, affecting coastal Perlis, Kedah and Penang. The disaster also highlights the risk of further tsunamis that may strike coasts in direct line of undersea faults, primarily around the South China Sea.\n\nMalaysia produces petroleum and is a net exporter. Malaysia also produces liquefied natural gas as well as various other related products, most of which are found off the coasts of Terengganu, Sabah, and Sarawak.\nNatural resources:tin, petroleum, timber, copper, iron, ore, natural gas, bauxite\n\nMalaysia was the largest exporter of tin until the industry wide collapse in 1980s. Tin deposit are found in Selangor, Kinta valley in Perak, Pahang and Johor. There are significant deposit of gold in Pahang towns of Raub and Kuala Lipis and also Kelantan's district of Gua Musang.\n\nCoal is mostly concentrated in Sarawak town of Kapit, Mukah and Silantek.\n\nTimber can be found in the vast jungles in Malaysia, especially in East Malaysia. Malaysia total exports for timber and other timber products amounted to MYR 23.4 billion in 2007.\n\nLarge areas of land are used as palm oil plantations, rubber plantations, and paddy fields. Malaysia is the largest exporter of palm oil in the world producing 15.8 million tonnes of crude palm oil in 2007. Malaysia is also one of the largest producers and exporters of rubber and other rubber products.\n\nAs of 2011, the percentage arable land in Malaysia is 5.44%. Croplands consists of 17.49% while other land uses consists of 77.07%. As of 2009, irrigated land covers 3,800 km². Total renewable water resource total 580 cubic km as of 2011.\n\nPeninsular Malaysia is more populated than East Malaysia where 79.2% of the population lives in the Peninsular. In 2002, 59% of Malaysian population lived in urban areas, while the rest live in rural areas. The largest city is Kuala Lumpur with a population of 1.89 million people in the city, and about 7 million in the metropolitan area known as Klang Valley. Other major cities include George Town, Ipoh, Johor Bahru, Kuching, and Kota Kinabalu.\n\nMalaysia is divided into thirteen states and three Federal Territories. Eleven states and two Federal Territories are found in Peninsular Malaysia. While two states and one Federal Territory are found in East Malaysia. The states are further divided into administrative districts. In Sabah and Sarawak, they are first divided into divisions, then further divided into districts. There are separate subdivisions for electoral districts for polling purposes.\n\nInternational borders between Malaysia and Indonesia, Thailand, Singapore and Brunei are defined mostly by geological features such as the Perlis River and Golok River between Malaysia and Thailand; Straits of Johor between Malaysia and Singapore; and Pagalayan Canal between Malaysia and Brunei. However, borders that extends to the seas are defined by agreements such as Straits Settlement and Johore Territorial Waters Agreement of 1927 which defines Malaysia and Singapore water borders.\n\nMalaysia's land borders are well established. The border with Thailand was established in 1909 when Siam ceded Kedah, Kelantan, Perlis and Terengganu to the British. Maritime border disputes between Brunei and Malaysia and a Bruneian claim on Limbang, Sarawak were resolved in an exchange of letters between the two countries on 16 March 2009 after 20 years of negotiations.\n\nMalaysia and Indonesia have some overlapping maritime claims, notably in the area around Sabah. An ongoing series of meetings to resolve these claims has produced 16 border agreements (to September 2010). Malaysia and Singapore also have disputes concerning some maritime borders.\n\nThe Philippines has a dormant claim to the eastern part of the Malaysian state of Sabah. Malaysia is also involved in a dispute involving Vietnam, Brunei, the People's Republic of China, the Philippines, and the Republic of China (Taiwan), concerning the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58997338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58997338", "title": "Geology of Argentina", "text": "Geology of Argentina\n\nThe geology of Argentina includes ancient Precambrian basement rock affected by the Grenville orogeny, sediment filled basins from the Mesozoic and Cenozoic as well as newly uplifted areas in the Andes. \n\nThe oldest rocks in Argentina date to the Precambrian. Strontium, oxygen and carbon isotope data from carbonate rocks in the Sierra de Pie de Palo are part of an ophiolite unit related to the Grenville orogeny, formed as cover rock in the Appalachian margin of the continent Laurentia around 720 million years ago. These Neoproterozoic age rocks are believed to have formed above much older Archean craton rock. Throughout the late Proterozoic, sections of Argentina were part of a metamorphic mobile belt adjacent to the Brazilian Shield. Regional metamorphism produced scheelite belts and wolframite in parts of San Luis and Cordoba Provinces. \n\nTo the north, along the Bolivian border in the Altiplano, drilling has revealed Precambrian horblende granoblastite and biotite granoblastite formed from magma during the Grenville orogeny 1.05 billion years ago metamorphosed around 530 million years ago. Granitoid and metamorphic rocks elsewhere in the El Cristo area in the southern Tandilia Range experienced intense folding more than two billion years ago and then metamorphosed to almandine grade on the sequence of metamorphic facies 1.8 billion years ago. Brittle deformation, granite emplacement and chloritization occurred in the formation 900 million years ago. \n\nExtremely ancient trace fossils have been found in the Puncoviscana Formation in the northwest, which grades into gneiss, schist and migmatite, as well as conglomerates, pelagic clay and volcanic rocks. Large areas of Argentina were part of the supercontinent Gondwana, inferred from detrital zircon grains. \n\nIn the Paleozoic, Argentina was located at a point in western Gondwana where the current African and South American cratons joined. Graywacke samples from the Puncoviscana Formation have zircon age patterns that suggest the crystals eroded out of active-margin mountain belts in the Brazilian Shield.\n\nIce ages occurred in the Carboniferous and early Permian in two main glacial periods. Carboniferous glacial deposits are well preserved in the San Eduardo Group in the western side of the Precordillera. The discovery of glacial deposits and marine sediments far east of the main deposits suggests that global changes in climate and latitude played a bigger role than altitude in the ice ages.\n\nThe Rio Blanco Basin and Paganzo Basin in western Argentina include sedimentary sequences that from bottom to top include marine sediments, an erosional surface with conglomerate, fluvial and shallow marine deposits, shale and diamictite, as well as shallow marine and glacial outwash deposits.\n\nDuring the Mesozoic, basins formed in what would become the Andean foothills, due to strike-slip movement and continental extension. The Choiyoi Group is a remnant of bimodal magmatism along a Paleozoic terrane suture. As the breakup of Gondwana began, narrow half-grabens filled with volcaniclastic rocks and the Pampa de Agnia Basin formed along the Gastre fault system. The Magallenes Basin experienced rifting and the Chon Aike province witnessed intraplate volcanism during the acceleration of the breakup around 180 to 165 million years ago, as the Weddell Sea opened. Explosive volcanism occurred in back arc basins through the Jurassic and low oxygen conditions prevailed in the Neuquen Basin sedimentary environment.\n\nCompressional tectonic forces were the norm in Argentine Tierra del Fuego. The volcanite and breccia of the Lemaire Formation, deep marine andesite turbidite of the Yahgan Formation, and slope mudstones of the Beauvoir Formation were metamorphosed in the Rocas Verdes Marginal Basin. The Malvinas and Austral basins originated during uplift of the region in the Campanian. \n\nThe Andes orogeny took place during the Cenozoic. Rifting and strike-slip faulting in weak Cretaceous magmatic arc rocks was reactivated with the collision of the South America and Nazca plates around nine million years ago. Uplift began around seven million years ago in the Sierra Pampeanas, a group of reverse fault-bounded Precambrian and Paleozoic rocks in the central Andes foreland basin. To the south, in Tierra del Fuego, turbidites accumulated in the basins formed in the late Cretaceous, producing the Paleocene Rio Claro Group, the Eocene La Despedida Group and the Oligocene Cabo Domingo Group.\nOutside of Antarctica, the chronology of the Patagonian glaciers is the best documented in the Southern Hemisphere. Glaciation began around seven million years ago in the Miocene and Pliocene. A sequence of eight glaciations peaked with the Great Patagonian Glaciations in the early Pleistocene. Paleosols and loess formed in the Pampas, very similar to sediments in northern China although less well preserved.\n"}
{"id": "58940190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58940190", "title": "Geology of Macau", "text": "Geology of Macau\n\nThe geology of Macau includes rocks from the Paleoproterozoic and Mesozoic belonging to the Yangtze terrane and Cathaysia terrane, which joined to the form the basement rock of southern China. The Yuao-Macao Fault Zone was identified in 1992 as a component of the broader South China Fold Belt, together with the Jiangshan-Shaoxing Fault Zone.\n\nI-type granite intrusion took place in the region around 160 million years ago in the Mesozoic. As a result, the rock in Macau is dominantly granite with veins and dikes of dacite, basalt and aplite. Geologists distinguish different granite facies between Coloane, Taipa and the Macau Peninsula. Other rock groups include porphyritic biotite granite, non-porphyritic garnet-bearing biotite granites and smaller occurrences of granite without biotite. Isotopic data suggests origins melting of Proterozoic protoliths, with small amounts of mantle-derived magma added to the mix.\n"}
{"id": "30943525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30943525", "title": "Goldfeld (surname)", "text": "Goldfeld (surname)\n\nGoldfeld is a Jewish East European surname, common among Ashkenazi Jews. Its meaning is 'gold field', probably referring to corn or wheat fields.\nGoldfelds in the western hemisphere mostly come from what is now known as Ukraine.\n\nNotables Goldfelds are:\n\n"}
{"id": "8133845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8133845", "title": "Hermann Guthe (geographer)", "text": "Hermann Guthe (geographer)\n\nHermann Guthe (August 22, 1824 – January 29, 1874) was a German geographer.\n\nHe was born at Sankt Andreasberg in the Harz region, son of Heinrich Frederich Wilhelm Guthe (1796–1875), a merchant, and Wilhelmine Sophie Frederika Woge (1801–84). Guthe was educated at Clausthal gymnasium (1839–1845), Göttingen (1845–1847), and Berlin (1847–1848), where he was a pupil of Carl Ritter.\n\nIn 1849 he obtained an appointment as teacher in the Lyceum of Hanover, and subsequently taught mathematics at the Polytechnic High School of the same city. In 1873 he was appointed to the chair of geography at the Polytechnic Institute Munich. He died of cholera.\n\nHis geographical works include: \n\n"}
{"id": "376521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376521", "title": "ICAO airport code", "text": "ICAO airport code\n\nThe ICAO (, ) airport code or location indicator is a four-letter code designating aerodromes around the world. These codes, as defined by the International Civil Aviation Organization and published in ICAO Document 7910: \"Location Indicators\", are used by air traffic control and airline operations such as flight planning.\n\nICAO codes are also used to identify other aviation facilities such as weather stations, International Flight Service Stations or Area Control Centers, whether or not they are located at airports. Flight information regions are also identified by a unique ICAO-code.\n\nThe International Civil Aviation Organization was formed in 1947 under the auspices of the United Nations, and it established \"Flight Information Regions\" (\"FIR\"s) for controlling air traffic and making airport identification simple and clear.\n\nCode selections in North America were based on existing radio station identifiers. For example, radio stations in Canada were already starting with \"C\", so it seemed logical to begin Canadian airport identifiers with a C (Cxxx). The United States had many pre-existing airports with established mnemonic codes. Their ICAO codes were formed simply by prepending a K to the existing codes, as half the radio station identifiers in the US began with K. Most ICAO codes outside the US and Canada have a stronger geographical structure.\n\nMost of the rest of the world was classified in a more planned top-down manner. Thus Uxxx referred to the Soviet Union with the second letter denoting the specific region within it, and so forth. Europe had too many locations for only one starting letter, so it was split into Exxx for northern Europe and Lxxx for southern Europe. The second letter was more specific: EGxx was the United Kingdom (G for Great Britain), EDxx was West Germany (D for Deutschland), ETxx was East Germany (the ETxx code was reassigned to military fields after the reunification), LExx was Spain (E for España), LAxx was Albania, and so on. France was designated LFxx, as the counterpart EFxx was the unambiguously northern Finland. (originally OFxx, as the more rigid geographical structure evolved over time; in the beginning, countries usually had \"blocks\" of codes; for example, Finland still has the country identifier OH- in its aircraft registrations).\n\nICAO codes are separate and different from IATA codes, which are generally used for airline timetables, reservations, and baggage tags. For example, the IATA code for London's Heathrow Airport is LHR and its ICAO code is EGLL. ICAO codes are commonly seen by passengers and the general public on flight-tracking services such as FlightAware, though passengers will more often see the IATA codes, on their tickets and their luggage tags. In general IATA codes are usually derived from the name of the airport or the city it serves, while ICAO codes are distributed by region and country. Far more aerodromes (in the broad sense) have ICAO codes than IATA codes, moreover IATA codes are sometimes assigned to railway stations.\n\nUnlike the IATA codes, the ICAO codes generally have a regional structure and are comprehensive. In general, the first letter is allocated by continent and represents a country or group of countries within that continent. The second letter generally represents a country within that region, and the remaining two are used to identify each airport. The exception to this rule is larger countries that have single-letter country codes, where the remaining three letters identify the airport. In either case, and unlike IATA codes, ICAO codes generally provide geographical context. For example, if one knows that the ICAO code for Heathrow is EGLL, then one can deduce that the airport EGGP is somewhere in the UK (it is Liverpool John Lennon Airport). On the other hand, knowing that the IATA code for Heathrow is LHR does not enable one to deduce the location of the airport LHV with any greater certainty (it is William T. Piper Memorial Airport in Lock Haven, Pennsylvania in the United States).\n\nThere are a few exceptions to the regional structure of the ICAO code made for political or administrative reasons. For example, the RAF Mount Pleasant air base in the Falkland Islands is assigned the ICAO code EGYP as though it were in the United Kingdom, but a nearby civilian airport such as Port Stanley Airport is assigned SFAL, consistent with South America. Similarly Saint Pierre and Miquelon is controlled by France, and airports there are assigned LFxx as though they were in Europe. Further, in region L (Southern Europe), all available 2-letter prefixes have been exhausted and thus no additional countries can be added. Thus when Kosovo declared independence, there was no space in the Lxxx codes to accommodate it, so airports in Kosovo were assigned BKxx, grouping Kosovo with Greenland and Iceland.\n\nThe letters I, J and X are not currently used as the first letter of any ICAO identifier. In Russia and CIS, Latin letter X (or its Morse/Baudot Cyrillic equivalent Ь) is used to designate government, military and experimental aviation airfields in \"internal\" airfield codes similar in structure and purpose to ICAO codes but not used internationally. Q is reserved for international radiocommunications and other non-geographical special uses (see Q code).\n\nIn the contiguous United States, Canada and some airports in Mexico, most, but not all, airports have been assigned three-letter IATA codes. These are the same as their ICAO code, but without the leading K, C, or M.; e.g., YEG and CYEG both refer to Edmonton International Airport, Edmonton, Alberta; IAD and KIAD are used for Washington Dulles International Airport, Chantilly, Virginia. These codes are not to be confused with radio or television call signs, even though both countries use four-letter call signs starting with those letters. However, because Alaska, Hawaii, and United States territories have their own 2-letter ICAO prefix, the situation there is similar to other smaller countries and the ICAO code of their airports is typically different from its corresponding 3-letter FAA/IATA identifier. For example, Hilo International Airport (PHTO vs ITO) and Juneau International Airport (PAJN vs JNU).\n\nZZZZ is a special code which is used when no ICAO code exists for the airport and is normally used in flight plans.\n\nA list of airports, sorted by ICAO code, is available below.\n\nIn small countries like Belgium or the Netherlands, almost all aerodromes have an ICAO code. For bigger countries like the UK or Germany this is not feasible, given the limited number of letter codes. Some countries have addressed this issue by introducing a scheme of sub-ICAO aerodrome codes; France, for example, assigns pseudo-ICAO codes in the style \"LFddnn\", where dd indicates the département while nn is a sequential counter. In the case of France, an amateur organisation, the FFPLUM, was formally named the keeper of these codes.\n\n\nRelated websites\n"}
{"id": "17418976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17418976", "title": "ISO 3166-2:KE", "text": "ISO 3166-2:KE\n\nISO 3166-2:KE is the entry for Kenya in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Kenya, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 47 counties.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Kenya. The second part is three digits.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nISO 639-1 codes are used to represent subdivision names in the following administrative languages:\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998. ISO stopped issuing newsletters in 2013\n\nPrior to 2014, the ISO 3166-2 standard maintained codes for the former 8 provinces of Kenya.\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "21607999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21607999", "title": "Jarun Bridge", "text": "Jarun Bridge\n\nJarun Bridge () is a planned bridge that will cross the Sava River in Zagreb, the capital of Croatia. The bridge will be located in the western part of the city, Trešnjevka near Lake Jarun. \n\nThe city of Zagreb organized a tender for the design of the Jarun Bridge in 2006, and accepted the project in 2007. The construction, originally estimated to cost around €40 million, did not start due to a lack of funds. the city is considering a pedestrian-and-cycle design as a cheaper alternative.\n"}
{"id": "853103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853103", "title": "José Paranhos, Baron of Rio Branco", "text": "José Paranhos, Baron of Rio Branco\n\nJosé Maria da Silva Paranhos Jr., Baron of Rio Branco (in Portuguese: \"Barão do Rio Branco\") (April 20, 1845 – February 10, 1912) was a Brazilian diplomat, geographer, historian, monarchist, politician and professor, considered to be the \"father of Brazilian diplomacy\". He was the son of famous statesman José Maria da Silva Paranhos Sr. The Baron of Rio Branco was a member of the Brazilian Academy of Letters, occupying its 34th chair from 1898 until his death in 1912. As a representative of Brazil, through his outstanding diplomacy, he managed to peacefully resolve Brazil's border disputes with its South American neighbours.\n\nJosé Paranhos Júnior was born in Rio de Janeiro in 1845, as son of José Maria da Silva Paranhos Sr, Viscount of Rio Branco, future Prime Minister of Brazil and famous statesman and his wife, Teresa de Figueiredo Faria. He began his work in the letters in 1863, in the pages of the \"Popular magazine\", with a biography on Luís Barroso Pereira, commander of the frigate \"Imperatriz\". Later, in 1866, in the magazine L'Illustration, he drew and wrote about the Paraguayan War, defending the point of view of Brazil.\nIn 1868, he replaced for three months Joaquim Manuel de Macedo as professor in the chair of chorography and history of Brazil, in Colégio Pedro II.\n\nHe began his political career as a promoter and deputy, still in the Empire. In 1871 he was editor in the newspaper \"A Nação\", having collaborated, from 1891, in \"Jornal do Brasil\".\n\nHe became Consul General in Liverpool from 1876, was accredited minister in Germany in 1900, taking over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 3 December 1902 until his death in 1912. He held the position throughout the term of four presidents of the republic - the governments of Rodrigues Alves, Afonso Pena, Nilo Peçanha and Hermes da Fonseca - forming a national unanimity in their time.\n\nHe received the title of Baron of Rio Branco on the eve of the end of the imperial period, but continued to use the title in his signature even after the proclamation of the republic in 1889. This was due to being a convinced monarchist and to honor his late father, the senator and diplomat José Maria da Silva Paranhos, Viscount of Rio Branco.\n\nIn 1889, Emperor Pedro II of Brazil granted him the Brazilian nobility title \"Baron of Rio Branco\" (Barão do Rio Branco), a few days before the Proclamation of the Republic. Rio Branco continued to use the title throughout his life, despite governmental prohibition, because of his monarchist beliefs . Being a monarchist, however, was no impediment for his success as a diplomat: the Baron of Rio Branco reached the heights of his career during the Republic, when he acted as Minister of Foreign Affairs for 10 years and settled all of Brazil's remaining border disputes by peaceful means.\n\nSuffering from kidney problems, he resigned his post, which was denied by President Hermes da Fonseca.\nIn his last moments of life, he lamented the bombing of the capital of Bahia, Salvador, motivated by a political crisis and occurred on 10 January 1912.\n\nHis death, during the carnival of 1912, altered the calendar of the popular feast that year, given the official mourning and the intense tributes that honored him in the city of Rio de Janeiro. His body was buried in the grave of his father, in the Caju Cemetery in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nRio Branco is considered the patron of Brazilian diplomacy.\n\nRio Branco began his political career as a congressman in the House of Commons. From 1876 on, he was the Brazilian Consul General in Liverpool, England. He was also the Brazilian Ambassador in Berlin in the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nRio Branco's most important legacy to Brazil was his successful effort, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, in defining the country's borders with all of its neighbours. He was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs in 1902 and retained office until 1912, under four different Presidents, a feat unequalled in Brazilian history.\n\nBefore and during his term, he negotiated territorial disputes between Brazil and some of its neighbours and consolidated the borders of modern Brazil. He is considered one of the most prominent Brazilian statesmen ever, as his proverbial work capacity, knowledge and skills were essential for the successful outcome of difficult boundary disputes, some of which submitted to international arbitration – such as with Argentina and France –, as well as for incorporating new territory (the state of Acre, originally Bolivian).\n\nAs a mediator he negotiated and settled disputes between the United States and many European countries. On those occasions, he never abandoned his belief in diplomacy as the means to handle international matters, thus helping establish Brazil's reputation as a peace-loving nation.\n\nRio Branco obtained a victory over France on the border of Amapá with French Guiana, cause won by Brazil in 1900 in an arbitration of the Swiss government. The border was defined in the river Oiapoque.\n\nIn 1903 Rio Branco signed the Treaty of Petrópolis with Bolivia, putting an end to the dispute involving the present Brazilian state of Acre. The region was settled mostly by native Brazilians, but the Bolivian government had come close to leasing this rubber-rich area to American private entrepreneurs. Today, the state's capital bears the name Rio Branco in his honor.\n\nThe representative of Brazil, Don José Maria da Silva Paranhos, who was Baron of Rio Branco met the representative of Ecuador, Dr. Carlos R. Tobar, in the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro, to peacefully discuss a final border between their countries. On May 6, 1904, an agreement was reached and the two representatives signed the Tobar-Rio Branco Treaty, in which Ecuador renounced its claims to the disputed area between the Caquetá River and the Amazon river in favour of Brazil, in return Brazil recognized Ecuador as its neighbour. The border would be a straight imaginary line that starts midpoint between the cities of Tabatinga, Brazil and Leticia, Colombia, on the Amazon River and runs north until it reaches the Caquetá River, also known as the Japurá River.\n\nRio Branco has negotiated with Uruguay the condominium on the Rio Jaguarão and Lagoon Mirim, essentially a voluntary concession from Brazil to a neighbor who needed those channels. For this reason, he was honored by the government of Uruguay, and his name was given to the old Pueblo Artigas, now the city of Río Branco, in the department of Cerro Largo, near the Brazilian Jaguarão.\n\nThe municipality of Paranhos, in Mato Grosso do Sul, located on the border with Paraguay was baptized in his honor.\nIn 1908, then in Rio de Janeiro, he invited the engineer Augusto Ferreira Ramos to design a cable car system that would facilitate access to the summit of Morro da Urca, known worldwide as the Sugar Loaf.\nIn 1909, his name was suggested for the presidential succession of the following year. Rio Branco preferred to decline any candidacy that was not of national unanimity.\n\nHe was president of the Brazilian Historic and Geographic Institute (1907-1912) and wrote two books.\n\nHis son, Paulo do Rio Branco, was a prominent Brazilian rugby player in France.\n\nIn 1909, Rio Branco was encouraged to run for the Presidency, but he declined, as he could not envisage consensus around his name. He was very popular, however, among the people, at the time of his death, to the point of paralysing Carnival – another unparalleled feat in Brazilian history – on the day he died (February 10), when official mourning was declared. The first recorded instance of an official moment of silence dedicated to a person's death took place in Portugal on February 13, 1912. The Portuguese Senate dedicated 10 minutes of silence to the baron. This moment of silence was registered in the Senate's records of that day.\n\nAs a writer he wrote many books, dealing mostly with the history of Brazil, and was awarded prizes and occupied the 34th seat of the Brazilian Academy of Literature.\n\nBrazil's diplomacy academy (Instituto Rio Branco) is named after the Baron. \nRio Branco is portrayed on the fifty centavos coin of the Brazilian real currency.\n\n\n\n\nLINS, Álvaro. Rio Branco (O Barão do Rio Branco): biografia pessoal e história política. São Paulo: Editora Alfa-Omega, 1996. 516p.\n\nPreuss, Ori. Bridging the Island: Brazilians' Views of Spanish America and Themselves. Madrid: Iberoamericana, 2011.\n\n\n of the Brazilian Empire\n"}
{"id": "3080100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3080100", "title": "Kazakh Steppe", "text": "Kazakh Steppe\n\nThe Kazakh Steppe (, \"Қазақ даласы\", also Uly dala, \"Ұлы дала\" \"Great Steppe\"), also called the Great Dala, ecoregion, of the Palearctic temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome, is a vast region of open grassland in northern Kazakhstan and adjacent portions of Russia, extending to the east of the Pontic steppe and to the west of the Emin Valley steppe, with which it forms part of the Eurasian steppe. Before the mid-nineteenth century it was called the Kirghiz steppe, 'Kirghiz' being an old name for the Kazakhs. \n\nThe steppe extends more than 2,200 km from the area east of the Caspian Depression and north of the Aral Sea, all the way to the Altai Mountains. It is the largest dry steppe region on earth, covering approximately 804,450 square kilometers. The Kazakh Steppe lies at the southern end of the Ural Mountains, the traditional dividing line between Europe and Asia. Much of the steppe is considered to be semi-desert, grading into desert as one goes further south. The Turan Lowland lies in the southwestern part of the steppe, but elevation increases as one travels east or to the northern parts of the steppe, with a few exceptions.\n\nThe Pontic Steppe lies to the west and northwest. To the north and northeast of the Kazakh Steppe lies the Kazakh forest steppe, an ecoregion of pine groves interspersed with grasslands that forms a transition between the Kazakh steppe and the forests of Siberia. To the south lies the Kazakh semi-desert and the Kazakh upland ecoregions. The Kokchetav Massif in north-central Kazakhstan harbors an enclave of the Kazakh upland, distinct from the Kazakh steppe which surrounds it at lower elevations.\n\nThe region has a semi-arid, continental climate, with most of the area falling under the \"BSk\" classification under the Köppen climate classification system. The steppe receives from 200mm to 400mm of precipitation in an average year, with more falling in the northern areas of the steppe. Average temperatures in July range from 20C to 26C, and -12C to -18C in January. Very high winds sweep across the plains at times.\n\nBecause of low rainfall, the steppe has few trees, and consists of mostly grasslands and large, sandy areas. Typical vegetation includes feathergrass (Stipa), wormwood (Artemisia (genus)), and fescue (Festuca).\n\nAnimals that can be found in the steppes of Kazakhstan include the Saiga Antelope, Siberian Roe Deer, wolves, foxes, badgers, Mongolian gerbils and steppe tortoises.\n\nThe western part of the Kazakh Steppe is very sparsely populated, with between two and three people per square kilometer. As one heads east across the plains, the population density increases to between four and seven people per square kilometer. Kazakh people make up the majority of the people living in the area. Russia leases approximately 7,360 square kilometers in the southern region of the steppe for the world's oldest space launch facility, Baikonur Cosmodrome.\n\nThe movie Tulpan was shot and set in the Kazakh Steppe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2106692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2106692", "title": "List of Tasmanians", "text": "List of Tasmanians\n\nThis is a list of notable Tasmanians, by birth or association.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10909234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10909234", "title": "List of birds of Saint Lucia", "text": "List of birds of Saint Lucia\n\nThis is a list of the bird species recorded in Saint Lucia. The avifauna of Saint Lucia include a total of 186 species, according to \"Bird Checklists of the World\" as of February 2018. Of them, five are endemic, three have been introduced by humans, and 112 are rare or accidental. There are also two subspecies endemic to the island. Six species are globally threatened.\n\nThis list's taxonomic treatment (designation and sequence of orders, families and species) and nomenclature (common and scientific names) follow the conventions of \"The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World\", 2018 edition. \n\nThe following tags have been used to highlight several categories of occurrence.\n\n\nOrder: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae\n\nAnatidae includes the ducks and most duck-like waterfowl, such as geese and swans. These birds are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet, flattened bills, and feathers that are excellent at shedding water due to an oily coating.\n\n\nOrder: PhoenicopteriformesFamily: Phoenicopteridae\n\nFlamingos are gregarious wading birds, usually tall, found in both the Western and Eastern Hemispheres. Flamingos filter-feed on shellfish and algae. Their oddly shaped beaks are specially adapted to separate mud and silt from the food they consume and, uniquely, are used upside-down.\n\n\nOrder: PodicipediformesFamily: Podicipedidae\n\nGrebes are small to medium-large freshwater diving birds. They have lobed toes and are excellent swimmers and divers. However, they have their feet placed far back on the body, making them quite ungainly on land.\n\n\nOrder: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae\n\nPigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.\n\n\nOrder: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae\n\nThe family Cuculidae includes cuckoos, roadrunners, and anis. These birds are of variable size with slender bodies, long tails, and strong legs.\n\n\nOrder: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Caprimulgidae\n\nNightjars are medium-sized nocturnal birds that usually nest on the ground. They have long wings, short legs, and very short bills. Most have small feet, of little use for walking, and long pointed wings. Their soft plumage is camouflaged to resemble bark or leaves.\n\n\nOrder: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Apodidae\n\nSwifts are small birds which spend the majority of their lives flying. These birds have very short legs and never settle voluntarily on the ground, perching instead only on vertical surfaces. Many swifts have long swept-back wings which resemble a crescent or boomerang.\n\n\nOrder: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Trochilidae\n\nHummingbirds are small birds capable of hovering in mid-air due to the rapid flapping of their wings. They are the only birds that can fly backwards.\n\n\nOrder: GruiformesFamily: Rallidae\n\nRallidae is a large family of small to medium-sized birds which includes the rails, crakes, coots, and gallinules. Typically they inhabit dense vegetation in damp environments near lakes, swamps, or rivers. In general they are shy and secretive birds, making them difficult to observe. Most species have strong legs and long toes which are well adapted to soft uneven surfaces. They tend to have short, rounded wings and to be weak fliers.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Recurvirostridae\n\nRecurvirostridae is a family of large wading birds which includes the avocets and stilts. The avocets have long legs and long up-curved bills. The stilts have extremely long legs and long, thin, straight bills.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Haematopodidae\n\nThe oystercatchers are large and noisy plover-like birds, with strong bills used for smashing or prising open molluscs.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Charadriidae\n\nThe family Charadriidae includes the plovers, dotterels, and lapwings. They are small to medium-sized birds with compact bodies, short thick necks, and long, usually pointed, wings. They are found in open country worldwide, mostly in habitats near water.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Scolopacidae\n\nScolopacidae is a large diverse family of small to medium-sized shorebirds including the sandpipers, curlews, godwits, shanks, tattlers, woodcocks, snipes, dowitchers, and phalaropes. The majority of these species eat small invertebrates picked out of the mud or soil. Variation in length of legs and bills enables multiple species to feed in the same habitat, particularly on the coast, without direct competition for food.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Stercorariidae\n\nThe family Stercorariidae are, in general, medium to large birds, typically with grey or brown plumage, often with white markings on the wings. They nest on the ground in temperate and arctic regions and are long-distance migrants.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Laridae\n\nLaridae is a family of medium to large seabirds which includes gulls, kittiwakes, terns, and skimmers. They are typically grey or white, often with black markings on the head or wings. They have longish bills and webbed feet. Terns are a group of generally medium to large seabirds typically with grey or white plumage, often with black markings on the head. Most terns hunt fish by diving but some pick insects off the surface of fresh water. Terns are generally long-lived birds, with several species known to live in excess of 30 years.\n\n\nOrder: PhaethontiformesFamily: Phaethontidae\n\nTropicbirds are slender white birds of tropical oceans with exceptionally long central tail feathers. Their heads and long wings have black markings.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Hydrobatidae\n\nThe storm-petrels are the smallest seabirds, relatives of the petrels, feeding on planktonic crustaceans and small fish picked from the surface, typically while hovering. The flight is fluttering and sometimes bat-like.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Procellariidae\n\nThe procellariids are the main group of medium-sized \"true petrels\", characterised by united nostrils with medium septum and a long outer functional primary.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Fregatidae\n\nFrigatebirds are large seabirds usually found over tropical oceans. They are large, black and white, or completely black, with long wings and deeply forked tails. The males have coloured inflatable throat pouches. They do not swim or walk and cannot take off from a flat surface. Having the largest wingspan-to-body-weight ratio of any bird, they are essentially aerial, able to stay aloft for more than a week.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Sulidae\n\nThe sulids comprise the gannets and boobies. Both groups are medium to large coastal seabirds that plunge-dive for fish.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Anhingidae\n\nAnhingas are often called \"snake-birds\" because of their long thin neck, which gives a snake-like appearance when they swim with their bodies submerged. The males have black and dark-brown plumage, an erectile crest on the nape, and a larger bill than the female. The females have much paler plumage especially on the neck and underparts. The darters have completely webbed feet and their legs are short and set far back on the body. Their plumage is somewhat permeable, like that of cormorants, and they spread their wings to dry after diving.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Phalacrocoracidae\n\nPhalacrocoracidae is a family of medium to large coastal, fish-eating seabirds that includes cormorants and shags. Plumage colouration varies, with the majority having mainly dark plumage, some species being black-and-white, and a few being colourful.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Pelecanidae\n\nPelicans are large water birds with a distinctive pouch under their beak. As with other members of the order Pelecaniformes, they have webbed feet with four toes.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Ardeidae\n\nThe family Ardeidae contains the bitterns, herons, and egrets. Herons and egrets are medium to large wading birds with long necks and legs. Bitterns tend to be shorter necked and more wary. Members of Ardeidae fly with their necks retracted, unlike other long-necked birds such as storks, ibises, and spoonbills.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Threskiornithidae\n\nThreskiornithidae is a family of large terrestrial and wading birds which includes the ibises and spoonbills. They have long, broad wings with 11 primary and about 20 secondary feathers. They are strong fliers and despite their size and weight, very capable soarers.\n\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Pandionidae\n\nThe family Pandionidae contains only one species, the osprey. The osprey is a medium-large raptor which is a specialist fish-eater with a worldwide distribution.\n\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Accipitridae\n\nAccipitridae is a family of birds of prey, which includes hawks, eagles, kites, harriers, and Old World vultures. These birds have powerful hooked beaks for tearing flesh from their prey, strong legs, powerful talons, and keen eyesight.\n\n\nOrder: StrigiformesFamily: Tytonidae\n\nBarn-owls are medium to large owls with large heads and characteristic heart-shaped faces. They have long strong legs with powerful talons.\n\n\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Alcedinidae\n\nKingfishers are medium-sized birds with large heads, long pointed bills, short legs, and stubby tails.\n\n\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Meropidae\n\nThe bee-eaters are a group of near passerine birds. Most species are found in Africa but others occur in southern Europe, Madagascar, Australia, and New Guinea. They are characterised by richly coloured plumage, slender bodies, and usually elongated central tail feathers. All have long down-turned bills and pointed wings, which give them a swallow-like appearance when seen from afar.\n\n\nOrder: FalconiformesFamily: Falconidae\n\nFalconidae is a family of diurnal birds of prey. They differ from hawks, eagles, and kites in that they kill with their beaks instead of their talons.\n\n\nOrder: PsittaciformesFamily: Psittacidae\n\nParrots are small to large birds with a characteristic curved beak. Their upper mandibles have slight mobility in the joint with the skull and they have a generally erect stance. All parrots are zygodactyl, having the four toes on each foot placed two at the front and two to the back.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Tyrannidae\n\nTyrant flycatchers are passerine birds which occur throughout North and South America. They superficially resemble the Old World flycatchers, but are more robust and have stronger bills. They do not have the sophisticated vocal capabilities of the songbirds. Most, but not all, have plain colouring. As the name implies, most are insectivorous.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Vireonidae\n\nThe vireos are a group of small to medium-sized passerine birds restricted to the New World. They are typically greenish in colour and resemble New World warblers apart from their heavier bills.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Hirundinidae\n\nThe family Hirundinidae is adapted to aerial feeding. They have a slender streamlined body, long pointed wings, and a short bill with a wide gape. The feet are adapted to perching rather than walking, and the front toes are partially joined at the base.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Troglodytidae\n\nThe wrens are mainly small and inconspicuous except for their loud songs. These birds have short wings and thin down-turned bills. Several species often hold their tails upright. All are insectivorous.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Turdidae\n\nThe thrushes are a group of passerine birds that occur mainly in the Old World. They are plump, soft plumaged, small to medium-sized insectivores or sometimes omnivores, often feeding on the ground. Many have attractive songs.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Mimidae\n\nThe mimids are a family of passerine birds that includes thrashers, mockingbirds, tremblers, and the New World catbirds. These birds are notable for their vocalizations, especially their ability to mimic a wide variety of birds and other sounds heard outdoors. Their colouring tends towards dull-greys and browns.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Fringillidae\n\nFinches are seed-eating passerine birds, that are small to moderately large and have a strong beak, usually conical and in some species very large. All have twelve tail feathers and nine primaries. These birds have a bouncing flight with alternating bouts of flapping and gliding on closed wings, and most sing well.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Icteridae\n\nThe icterids are a group of small to medium-sized, often colourful, passerine birds restricted to the New World and include the grackles, New World blackbirds, and New World orioles. Most species have black as the predominant plumage colour, often enlivened by yellow, orange, or red.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Parulidae\n\nThe New World warblers are a group of small, often colourful, passerine birds restricted to the New World. Most are arboreal, but some are terrestrial. Most members of this family are insectivores.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Cardinalidae\n\nThe cardinals are a family of robust, seed-eating birds with strong bills. They are typically associated with open woodland. The sexes usually have distinct plumages.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Thraupidae\n\nThe tanagers are a large group of small to medium-sized passerine birds restricted to the New World, mainly in the tropics. Many species are brightly coloured. They are seed eaters, but their preference tends towards fruit and nectar. Most have short, rounded wings.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Passeridae\n\nSparrows are small passerine birds. In general, sparrows tend to be small, plump, brown or grey birds with short tails and short powerful beaks. Sparrows are seed eaters, but they also consume small insects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17239509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17239509", "title": "List of bridges on the National Register of Historic Places in Guam", "text": "List of bridges on the National Register of Historic Places in Guam\n\nThis is a list of bridges and tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. territory of Guam.\n"}
{"id": "7853230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7853230", "title": "List of castles in the Channel Islands", "text": "List of castles in the Channel Islands\n\nThis is a list of castles and forts in the Channel Islands.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3071786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3071786", "title": "List of countries by suicide rate", "text": "List of countries by suicide rate\n\nThe following are lists of countries by suicide rate according to data from the World Health Organization (WHO) and other sources.\n\nA country's rank is determined by its age-adjusted total rate (per 100,000 population) of deaths officially recorded as suicides in the most recent available year. The WHO statistics are based on the official reports from each respective country, therefore no more accurate than the record-keeping in the specific country, and revisions (updates) are usually performed as well.\n\nAbout one person in 5,000–15,000 dies by suicide every year (1.4% of all deaths), with a reported global rate of 10.7 per 100,000 population in 2015 (was 11.6 in 2008).\nIn Western countries male and female rates of suicidal behaviors differ at a greater degree compared to those in the rest of the world.\nAround 30% of global suicides are due to pesticide self-poisoning, most of which occur in rural agricultural areas in low- and middle-income countries consisting in about 80% world population; some of these pesticides are forbidden by United Nations (UN) conventions. In high-income countries consisting of the remaining 20% world population most common methods are firearms, hanging and other self-poisoning. Europe is the most suicidal region in the entire world, while the Eastern Mediterranean the least.\n\nA 2014 overview pointed at the economic crisis' years (2007-2008) as a period from which suicide rates surged globally. The study was about China's suicide rates which have been declining instead: in the 1990s China was among the countries with highest suicide rates in the world (above 20 per 100,000), but by the global economic crisis they kept dropping as significantly (as they were by the end of 1990s) with the main force having been migration from rural to urban areas. The same years were also a turning point for reliability of data: before then, many countries had no globally recognized official rates, particularly African countries.\n\nPer recent WHO releases, social stigma, the taboo to openly discuss suicide, and low availability of data lead to poor data quality for both suicide and suicide attempts: \"given the sensitivity of suicide – and the illegality of suicidal behaviour in some countries – it is likely that under-reporting and misclassification are greater problems for suicide than for most other causes of death.\"\n\nSource: World Health Organization\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) divides the world into six WHO regions (more detailed sub-regional statistics are available at its official website). Incidence of suicide tends to be under-reported and misclassified due to both cultural and social pressures, and possibly completely unreported in some areas. Since data might be skewed, comparing suicide rates between countries can result in statistically unsound conclusions about suicidal behavior in different countries. Nevertheless the statistics are commonly used to directly influence decisions about public policy and public health strategies.\n\nMale and female suicide rates are out of total male population and total female population, respectively (i.e. total number of male suicides divided by total male population). Age-standardized rates account for the influence that different population age distributions might have on the analysis of crude death rates, statistically addressing the prevailing trends by age-groups and populations' structures, to enhance cross-national comparability: based on age-groups' deviation from standardized population structures, rates are rounded up or down (age-adjustment). If rounded down means the median age and life expectancy is higher than average for that region (or country), and viceversa when rounded up.\n\nMost countries listed below report a higher male suicide rate, as on average there are about 3 male suicides out of 4, or a factor of 3:1 (for example, in the United States was 3.36 in 2015, and 3.53 in 2016). The Male:Female ratio shown below is based on the age-standardized rates: as compared to WHO world standard population, women's median age and life expectancy might be greater than that of men's for that country when rounded up, and viceversa when rounded down.\n\nThough age-standardization is common statistical process to categorize mortality data for comparing purposes, this approach often results in rates differing from the official national statistics prepared and endorsed by individual countries (and revisions are performed periodically as well). Age-adjusted rates are mortality rates that would have existed if all populations under study had the same age distribution as a \"standard\" population.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6922556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6922556", "title": "List of extreme points of Belarus", "text": "List of extreme points of Belarus\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Belarus, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4384758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4384758", "title": "List of fishes of Great Britain", "text": "List of fishes of Great Britain\n\nThis is a list of fish found in and around Great Britain, in both fresh water (lakes, rivers, streams and man-made pools) and salt water. This list includes species that are native to Great Britain, as well as those which have been introduced from other countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4247623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4247623", "title": "List of football clubs in the Isle of Man", "text": "List of football clubs in the Isle of Man\n\nThis is a list of football clubs in the Isle of Man.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43243013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43243013", "title": "List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in Estonia", "text": "List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in Estonia\n\nLists of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in Europe\n"}
{"id": "1012189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1012189", "title": "List of islands of Tuvalu", "text": "List of islands of Tuvalu\n\nTuvalu consists of nine separate islands, six of which are atolls and three are reef islands. Since an atoll typically consists of several islets, there is a total of more than 124 islands and islets. Each island is surrounded by a coral reef. Tuvalu's small, scattered group of atolls have poor soil and a total land area of only about making it the fourth smallest country in the world. Over 4 decades, there had been a net increase in land area of the islets of 73.5 ha (2.9%), although the changes are not uniform, with 74% increasing and 27% decreasing in size. The sea level at the Funafuti tide gauge has risen at 3.9 mm per year. The rising sea levels are identified as creating an increased transfer of wave energy across reef surfaces, which shifts sand, resulting in accretion to island shorelines. \n\nThe reef islands have a different structure to the atolls, and are described as reef platforms as they are smaller tabular reef platforms that do not have a salt-water lagoon, although they have a completely closed rim of dry land, with the remnants of a lagoon that has no connection to the open sea or that may be drying up as the result of coral debris filling the lagoon. For example, Niutao has two lakes, which are brackish to saline; and are the degraded lagoon.\n\nThe islands of Tuvalu are spread out between the latitude of 5° to 10° south and longitude of 176° to 180°, west of the International Date Line.\n\nThe name, Tuvalu, means \"eight standing together\" in Tuvaluan.\n\nThe smallest island, Niulakita, which is the 9th island in the Tuvaluan archipelago, was not continuously inhabited. From the late 19th century it had been in private ownership. It was bought by the Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony administration in 1944. The administration gave people from Vaitupu permission to settle Niulakita. However, in 1949 a later administration decided to have Niulakita settled by the community from Niutao, which was considered to be overpopulated. The removal of the Vaitupuans was controversial. Niulakita is a separate local government district but it is administered as part of Niutao. Niulakita is represented in the Parliament of Tuvalu by the members of the constituency of Niutao.\n\nAt least 11 islands are inhabited, expanded over the biggest isles of the nine atolls, plus two islands in Funafuti. Tuvalu has defined for 1 town council (Funafuti) and 7 island councils. Niulakita, which now has its own island council, is not listed is not listed as it is administered as part of Niutao.\n\nAn expedition (\"Funafuti Coral Reef Boring Expedition of the Royal Society\") under Professor William Sollas of Oxford University, conducted by the Royal Society of London carried out drilling on the coral reef at Funafuti in 1896, 1897 and 1898.\n\nHMS \"Penguin\", under the command of Captain Arthur Mostyn Field, delivered the 1896 expedition to Funafuti in the Ellice Islands, arriving on 21 May 1896, and returned to Sydney on 22 August 1896. From 1896 to 1899 the \"Penguin\" was under the command of Captain Arthur Mostyn Field and her surveying work included further voyages to Funafuti atoll to deliver the expeditions of the Royal Society in 1897 and 1898. The surveys carried out by the \"Penguin\" resulted in the preparation of the Admiralty Nautical Chart 2983 for the islands.\n\nThe Royal Society of London were investigating the formation of coral reefs and whether traces of shallow-water organisms could be found at depth in the coral of Pacific atolls. Three expeditions used drilling equipment to take core samples of the coral reef. A goal of the expeditions was to drill down to confirm that the coral material was located on a base of volcanic rock. This investigation followed the work on the structure and distribution of coral reefs conducted by Charles Darwin in the Pacific. However, the geologic history of atolls is more complex than Darwin (1842) and Davis (1928) envisioned.\n\nThe expedition was led by Professor William Johnson Sollas of the University of Oxford and included Professor Edgeworth David and Walter George Woolnough of the University of Sydney.\n\nThe expedition was led by Professor Edgeworth David of the University of Sydney (that included George Sweet as second-in-command, and Walter George Woolnough).\n\nThe expedition was led by Alfred Edmund Finckh of the University of Sydney.\n\nThe purpose of the expedition was to attempt to settle the question as to the formation of coral atolls. The first expedition experienced defects in the boring machinery and the bore penetrated only slightly more than 100 feet (approx. 31 m). The second expedition reached a depth of 557 feet (170 m). The third expedition was successful in carrying the bore to 1,114 feet (340 m). The results provided support for Charles Darwin's theory of subsidence; in which there are four stages in development of coral reefs: a volcanic island forms, is surrounded by a fringing coral reef, as it subsides slowly a wide barrier reef forms, then after it has sunk below sea level the coral continues to grow forming a circular atoll. However, the geologic history of atolls is more complex than Darwin (1842) and Davis (1920 & 1928) envisioned.\n\nThe average depth in the Funafuti lagoon (\"Te Namo\") is about 20 fathoms (36.5 metres or 120 feet).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35940793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35940793", "title": "List of people who died climbing Mount Everest", "text": "List of people who died climbing Mount Everest\n\nMount Everest, at is the world's highest mountain and a particularly desirable peak for mountaineers. Over 297 people have died trying to climb it. The last year without known deaths on the mountain was 1977, a year in which only two people reached the summit.\n\nMost deaths have been attributed to avalanches, injury from fall, ice collapse, exposure, frostbite, or health problems related to conditions on the mountain. Not all bodies have been located, so details on those deaths are not available.\n\nThe upper reaches of the mountain are in the death zone. The death zone is a mountaineering term for altitudes above a certain point – around , or less than of atmospheric pressure – where the oxygen level is not sufficient to sustain human life. Many deaths in high-altitude mountaineering have been caused by the effects of the death zone, either directly (loss of vital functions) or indirectly (unwise decisions made under stress or physical weakening leading to accidents).\nIn the death zone, the human body cannot acclimatize, as it uses oxygen faster than it can be replenished. An extended stay in the zone without supplementary oxygen will result in deterioration of bodily functions, loss of consciousness and, ultimately, death.\n\nThe most popular routes are the South Col route from the Nepalese side and the North Col route from the Tibetan side.\n\nThe first recorded deaths on the mountain were the seven porters who perished in an avalanche in the 1922 British Mount Everest Expedition. George Mallory, who was present, blamed himself for the deaths. During the initial there were two deaths en route to the mountain – an unidentified porter as well as heart attack victim Dr. A. M. Kellas.\n\nWhile dangerous for the novice climber, the mountain has also claimed the lives of some of the most experienced climbers. Babu Chiri Sherpa had climbed the mountain ten times, and in 1999 spent 20 hours on the summit of Everest, then a new record. He also climbed to the summit twice in two weeks and held the record climbing time from Base Camp to summit of 16 hours and 56 minutes. He died in 2001 from a fall near Camp II. Experienced guide Rob Hall died on Everest shortly after becoming the first non-Sherpa to have summitted five times (1996).\n\nOne of the most infamous tragedies on the mountain was the 1996 Mount Everest disaster on May 11, 1996, during which eight people died while making summit attempts. In that entire season, 15 people died trying to reach the summit, making it the deadliest single year in the mountain's history to that point. The disaster gained wide publicity and has been written about many times; both \"Into Thin Air\" by Jon Krakauer and \"The Climb\" by Anatoli Boukreev were written by mountaineers who were on Mount Everest at the time, and they give conflicting accounts of the events. Curiously, 1996 was statistically a safe year for Everest climbers. Before 1996, one in four climbers had died making the ascent; 1996 saw huge numbers of people attempting the climb and the statistics for 1996 reveal that only one in seven died.\n\nIn the consecutive 2014 and 2015 seasons, tragedies that each killed more than a dozen people caused no one to ascend the mountain in those years. On April 18, 2014, 16 Sherpas were killed in an avalanche that struck Base Camp. Just over a year later, on April 25, 2015, 19 people were killed in an avalanche at Base Camp following a powerful 7.8 earthquake, which killed at least 9,000 people and injured at least 23,000 in Nepal. This is the worst single-day death toll ever in the history of Mount Everest, in modern incidents with accurate counts.\n\nDue to the difficulties and dangers in bringing bodies down, most of those who die on the mountain remain where they fall, although some are moved by winds and ice. Two Nepalese climbers died on October 24, 1984, while trying to recover the body of Hannelore Schmatz. While searching for George Mallory's body in a \"catchment basin\" near the peak in 1999, searchers came across multiple bodies in the snow, including Mallory's.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45037028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45037028", "title": "Lists of airports in Asia", "text": "Lists of airports in Asia\n\nThis page provides links to other pages comprising the lists of airports in Asia.\n\nDue to the number of airports, each country or territory has a separate list:\n\n"}
{"id": "33556571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33556571", "title": "Mardakan Arboretum", "text": "Mardakan Arboretum\n\nMardakan arboretum is located in the Mardakan township on the semi-arid Absheron peninsula, 40 km away from Baku.It was a personal garden of Murtuza Mukhtarov, a tycoon and oil millionaire of his time around 1895-1920s. Currently, an area of the Arboretum is 24 hectares. The Arboretum is listed among the world’s richest collections for the number and age of flora species. About 1,800 species including 1,540 plant types and breeds both from Azerbaijan and many other countries are being introduced to visitors.\n\n\n\nMardakan arboretum is 4,5 km from the shore of the Caspian Sea. The territory of the arboretum is 12 hectares. 80-85% of the arboretum is covered with limestone. The soil cover is represented by various soil combinations. With increasing distance from the sea heavier and lighter sandy-loam grounds are encountered, which consists of insignificant depth of 0,5 to 1,5 meter. Only natural lignose and shrubs are almost absent. Cascara buckthorn, Georgian honeysuckle, tamarix, feral fig and other plants are encountered between the rocks.\nArboretum’s vegetation exists on the ground, imported from Lankaran and with artificial watering. \n\nThe water is taken from deep wells, filtered through the limestone, 30–80 m depth. Water from the wells is pulled into pools, from which it is divereted through the territory of the park through pipes. The diameter of the wells is 8-13 m and the average depth is 36 m. The deepest well located near the Yesenin house-museum was built in 1835 and has a total length of 27 meters. The well is surrounded by a round stonewalls in the form of castle and has a circular staircase about 18 meters high. the well has underground passages.\n\nThe pools were built between 1903 and 1905. 6 artificial waterfalls have been installed in the garden along with the water-pools.The quadrangle pool has a 35 meters width, 50 meters length and 30 meters depth. The other pool was constructed on the ground in 1840 and in order to climb it, staircases are used. \n\nAccording to Tofig Mammadov, the director of Mardakan arboretum, the overall quantity of species of flora and fauna in arboretum is about 1'700.\n\nOn the right and left side of the central alley of the garden, expositions of natural plants are exhibited. The expositions are categorized into 8 botanical-geographical groups: East Asian flora, Central Asian flora, North American flora, South America flora, flora of Mediterranean countries, Australia and New Zealand flora, Caucasian flora and African flora.\n\nThere are 22 types and 300 species of rose, 9 types and 35 species of daffodil, 6 types and 12 species of iris, 28 types and 56 species of cactus, 15 types and 26 species of poppy in this exposition.\n\nThis exposition of 600 types and 760 species of cultivated plants is divided into 12 groups. It includes pomegranate and other fruit trees, berries, Medicinal plants and others.\n\nThere are 2 museums located in the area of Mardakan Arboretum: “Botany museum” dedicated to the Soviet botanist Nikolai Vavilov and “Sergei Yesenin museum” dedicated to the Russian poet Sergei Yesenin.\n\nThis is the house-museum of Russian poet Sergei Yesenin who lived here in 1924-1925. The museum was established in 1974 on the initiative of Heydar Aliyev and inaugurated on April 1 1975 on the occasion of Yesenin’s 80 anniversary. The street where this museum located has been named after Sergei Yesenin. The museum has been operating under the Literature Museum of Azerbaijan since 1999. After  the reestablishment of the structure of the Literature Museum in 2008, the house-museum of S.Yesenin transformed into the Center of Russian-Azerbaijani literary relationships named after S.A.Yesenin. The Center provides information about the poet’s life and his poems, as well as collects and research the materials related to Russian-Azerbaijani literary relationship.\n\nSome scenes of the Azerbaijani films, such as \"The Cloth Peddler\", \"Qorxma, mən səninləyəm\" (1981), \"Bаşsız аtlı\", \"Lənkəran xanının vəziri\" were shot in this garden.\n\n"}
{"id": "55180507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55180507", "title": "Maximilien Sorre", "text": "Maximilien Sorre\n\nMaximilien Sorre (16 July 1880 – 10 August 1962), known as Max Sorre, was a French geographer whose work was mainly in the areas of biological and human geography.\n\nMaximilien Sorre, who signed his works \"Max Sorre\", was born in Rennes, Brittany, on 16 July 1880.\nHe studied at the École Normale de Rennes.\nFrom 1889 to 1901 he studied at the École normale de Saint Cloud, which trained teachers for the departmental \"écoles normales\".\nOn 6 August 1901 he was awarded a certificate to teach as a professor at the Écoles Normales and the Écoles primaires supérieures.\nIn 1902 he was appointed professor at the École Normale de La Roche-sur-Yon.\n\nSorre was appointed to Perpignan and then to Montpellier in 1903.\nHe had already accepted the geographic views of Paul Vidal de La Blache and Emmanuel de Martonne.\nAt the University of Montpellier he was taught by Charles Flahault, professor of botany.\nThis course let him enroll in a doctorate under the direction of Paul Vidal de La Blache on a theme of biological geography in the eastern Pyrenees, a pioneering work he presented in 1913.\nHis complementary thesis was entitled: \"A critical study of the sources of the history of viticulture and the trade of wines and spirits in Lower Languedoc in the eighteenth century\".\n\nDuring World War I (1914–18) Sorre was mobilized as an officer in 1914, and was seriously wounded in Artois in the autumn of 1915.\nWhile convalescing he established a closer relationship with Vidal, whose son had been lost in the war.\nAfter the war he was accepted in turn by the universities of Bordeaux, Strasbourg and then Lille in 1922.\nAfter the death of Antoine Vacher in 1920 the teaching of geography at the University of Lille had been disorganized for two years.\nSorre stayed at Lille for a long period, and in 1925 accepted the chair of Regional Geography there.\nIn 1929 he was appointed Dean of the Faculty of Letters of Lille, holding that position for eleven years.\nHe also held the posts of Rector of the Académie de Clermont (1931–34) and Rector of the Academy of Aix-Marseille (1934–37).\n\nSorre had left-wing views, and under the Popular Front he was named director of primary education by Jean Zay.\nHe was director of Primary and Post-school Education from 2 June 1937.\nDuring World War II (1939–45) The Vichy Regime dismissed him from this position due to his political views, and he was returned to the Lille Faculty of Letters by a decree of 29 July 1940.\nIn October 1940 Sorre was given the chair of Human Geography at the Sorbonne, where he ended his teaching career.\nAt the end of his life Maximilien Sorre was President of the École Normale Supérieure in the rue d'Ulm, Paris.\nHe died on 10 August 1962.\nThe Lycée Maximilien Sorre in Cachan, Val-de-Marne, is named after him.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century Maximilien Sorre developed the concepts that Paul Vidal de La Blache had laid out in his \"Principes de géographie humaine\", adding concepts from the biological sciences and exploring the relations of man with his environment.\nAlbert Demangeon had paved the way for more systematic conceptualizations of Social geography with his posthumously published argument that social groups ought to be within the center of human geographical analysis.\nThat task was carried out by Pierre George and Maximilien Sorre, among others.\nSorre was interested in the biological conditions of habitability of regions of the world, and the process of transfer of populations and cultures by international migrations.\nHe was interested in the effect of epidemics and of changing environmental conditions.\nWith this orientation he disregarded the dominant trends of post-war French geography.\n\n\nSelected publications:\n"}
{"id": "57876058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57876058", "title": "Mongami", "text": "Mongami\n\nMongami is a place in the southwest of Babeldaob, the main island of the Micronesian republic of Palau. The village is the capital of the state of Aimeliik.\n"}
{"id": "374673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374673", "title": "Mountain pass", "text": "Mountain pass\n\nA mountain pass is a navigable route through a mountain range or over a ridge. Since many of the world's mountain ranges have presented formidable barriers to travel, passes have played a key role in trade, war, and both human and animal migration throughout Earth's history. At lower elevations it may be called a hill pass. The highest vehicle-accessible pass in the world appears to be Mana Pass, located in the Himalayas on the border between India and Tibet, China.\n\nMountain passes make use of a gap, saddle, or col (also sometimes a notch, the low point in a ridge). A topographic saddle is analogous to the mathematical concept of a saddle surface, with a saddle point marking the highest point between two valleys and the lowest point along a ridge. On a topographic map, passes are characterized by contour lines with an hourglass shape, which indicates a low spot between two higher points.\n\nPasses are often found just above the source of a river, constituting a drainage divide. A pass may be very short, consisting of steep slopes to the top of the pass, or may be a valley many kilometres long, whose highest point might only be identifiable by surveying.\n\nRoads have long been built through passes, as well as railways more recently. Some high and rugged passes may have tunnels bored underneath a nearby mountainside (like the Eisenhower Tunnel bypassing Loveland Pass in the Rockies) to allow faster traffic flow throughout the year.\n\nThe top of a pass is frequently the only flat ground in the area, and is a high vantage point. In some cases this makes it a preferred site for buildings. If a national border follows a mountain range, a pass over the mountains is typically on the border, and there may be a border control or customs station, and possibly a military post as well. For instance Argentina and Chile share the world's third-longest international border, long. The border runs north–south along the Andes mountains, with a total of 42 mountain passes. On a road over a pass, it is customary to have a small roadside sign giving the name of the pass and its elevation above mean sea level.\n\nAs well as offering relatively easy travel between valleys, passes also provide a route between two mountain tops with a minimum of descent. As a result, it is common for tracks to meet at a pass; this often makes them convenient routes even when travelling between a summit and the valley floor. Passes traditionally were places for trade routes, communications, cultural exchange, military expeditions etc. A typical example is the Brenner pass in the Alps.\n\nSome mountain passes above the tree line have problems with snow drift in the winter. This might be alleviated by building the road a few meters above the ground, which will make snow blow off the road.\n\nThere are many words for \"pass\" in the English-speaking world. In the United States, \"pass\" is very common in the West, the word \"gap\" is common in the southern Appalachians, \"notch\" in parts of New England, and \"saddle\" in northern Idaho. Scotland has the Gaelic term \"bealach\" (anglicised \"balloch\"), while Wales has the similar \"bwlch\" (both being British Celtic languages). In the Lake District of north-west England, the term \"hause\" is often used, although the term \"pass\" is also common—one distinction is that a pass can refer to a route, as well as the highest part thereof, while a hause is simply that highest part, often flattened somewhat into a high-level plateau.\n\nThere are thousands of named passes around the world, some of which are well-known, such as the Great St. Bernard Pass at in the Alps, the Chang La at , and the Khardung La at in Jammu and Kashmir, India. The roads at Mana Pass at and Marsimik La at , on and near the China-India border respectively, appear to be world's two highest motorable passes. Khunjerab Pass between Pakistan and China at is also a high-altitude motorable mountain pass.\n"}
{"id": "17683366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17683366", "title": "Navigational algorithms", "text": "Navigational algorithms\n\nNavigational Algorithms is a web site whose purpose is to make available the scientific part of the art of navigation, containing specialized articles and software that implements the various procedures of calculus. The topics covered are:\n\nInclude articles about piloting and astronavigation: Corrections for sextant altitude, Sight Reduction with calculator-Form & Plotting sheet for celestial LoPs, Celestial Fix - 2 LoPs, Celestial Fix - n LoPs NA Sight Reduction algorithm, Vector equation of the Circle of equal altitude, Vector Solution for the intersection of two Circles of Equal Altitude, Sight Reduction - Matrix solution.\n\nInclude papers about introduction to navigation, tides, naval kinematics, weather and oceanography\n\nThis section gives a brief description of the free programs available for navigation.\nRun under Windows XP, (maybe under 95/98/2000/NT)\n\nEphemerides of the celestial bodies used in navigation.\n\n\nAstronavigation solution for sight reduction for n observations made with a marine sextant & running fixes\n\nThe algorithms implemented are:\nFor \"n\" = 2 observations\nFor \"n\" ≥ 2 observations\n\nAny measure of course made with a magnetic compass must be corrected because of the magnetic declination or local variation.\n\n"}
{"id": "22596904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22596904", "title": "Nepen Diakha", "text": "Nepen Diakha\n\nNepen Diakha is a locality situated in the Kédougou Region, Senegal. The highest point of the country is located 2.7 km southeast of Nepen Diakha on an unnamed ridge defining the border with Guinea. There is a 648 meters (2,126 feet) above sea level spot height here on the 1983, very detailed, five-meter contour interval 1:25,000 scale topographic map sheet 2049I SE produced by the joint Senegal-Guinea Organization for the Development of the River Gambia with \"topography by photogrammetric methods\" from US-flown aerial images. SRTM data shows a 642 meter elevation here.\n\nThe village of Nepin Peul is the closest locality to this ridge.\n\nThe coordinates of the highest point of Senegal are .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16278626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278626", "title": "Outline of East Timor", "text": "Outline of East Timor\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to East Timor:\n\nEast Timor – sovereign island nation located in Southeast Asia. East Timor comprises the eastern half of the Island of Timor, the nearby islands of Atauro and Jaco, and Oecussi-Ambeno, an exclave on the northwestern side of the island, within Indonesian West Timor. The small country of 15,410 km² (5,400 sq mi) is located about 640 km (400 mi) northwest of Darwin, Australia.\n\nEast Timor was colonized by Portugal in the 16th century, and was known as Portuguese Timor until Portugal's decolonization of the country. In late 1975 East Timor declared its independence but was invaded and occupied by Indonesia later that year, and declared that country's 27th province the following year. In 1999, following the United Nations-sponsored act of self-determination, Indonesia relinquished control of the territory and East Timor became the first new sovereign state of the twenty-first century on May 20, 2002. East Timor is one of only two predominantly Roman Catholic countries in Southeast Asia, the other being the Philippines.\n\nAt US$2,500, the per capita GDP (purchasing power parity adjusted) of East Timor is one of the lowest in the world. Its Human Development Index (HDI), however, corresponds to a medium degree of human development and places East Timor 142nd among the world's states.\n\n\nGeography of East Timor\n\n\n\nAdministrative divisions of East Timor\n\nDistricts of East Timor\n\nSubdistricts of East Timor\n\nSucos of East Timor\n\nDemographics of East Timor\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste is a member of:\n\n\n\nHistory of East Timor\n\nCulture of East Timor\n\n\nSports in East Timor\n\nEconomy of East Timor\n\nEducation in East Timor\n\nEast Timor\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16278784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278784", "title": "Outline of Guam", "text": "Outline of Guam\n\nGuam\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Guam:\n\nGuam – organized, unincorporated territory of the United States of America that comprises the island of Guam in the western North Pacific Ocean. It is one of five U.S. territories with an established civilian government. The island's capital is Hagåtña (formerly Agana). Guam is the largest and southernmost of the Mariana Islands. The Chamorros, Guam's indigenous inhabitants, first populated the island approximately 4,000 years ago. Discovered by the Spanish expedition of Ferdinand Magellan in 1521, the island has a long history of European colonialism beginning in the 16th century, and especially in 1668 with the arrival of Spanish settlers including Padre San Vitores, a Catholic missionary. Guam and the rest of the Mariana Islands were integrated in the Spanish East Indies since 1565. The island was a major stopover for Manila Galleons sailing from Acapulco, until 1815. Guam was taken over from Spain by the United States during the Spanish–American War in 1898. As the largest island in Micronesia and the only American-held island in the region before World War II, Guam was occupied by the Japanese between December 1941 and July 1944. Today, Guam's economy is mainly supported by tourism (primarily from Japan) and U.S. military bases.\n\nGeography of Guam\n\n\n\n\nList of ecoregions in Guam\nNone\n\n\n\nPolitics of Guam\n\nGovernment of Guam\n\n\n\nCourt system of Guam\n\nForeign relations of Guam\n\nThe United States Territory of Guam is a member of:\n\nLaw of Guam\n\nLocal government in Guam\n\nHistory of Guam\n\nCulture of Guam\n\n\nSports in Guam\n\nEconomy of Guam\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16279226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16279226", "title": "Outline of Oman", "text": "Outline of Oman\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Oman:\n\nOman – sovereign country located in Southwest Asia along the eastern coast of the Arabian Peninsula. Oman borders the United Arab Emirates on the northwest, Saudi Arabia on the west and Yemen on the southwest. The coast is formed by the Arabian Sea on the south and east and the Gulf of Oman on the northeast. The country also contains Madha, an exclave enclosed by the United Arab Emirates, and Musandam, an exclave also separated by Emirati territory.\n\n\nGeography of Oman\n\n\n\nRegions of Oman\n\nList of ecoregions in Oman\n\nAdministrative divisions of Oman\n\nGovernorates of Oman\n\nProvinces of Oman\n\n\nDemographics of Oman\n\nPolitics of Oman\n\nGovernment of Oman\n\n\n\nCourt system of Oman\n\nForeign relations of Oman\n\nThe Sultanate of Oman is a member of:\n\nLaw of Oman\n\nMilitary of Oman\n\nLocal government in Oman\n\nHistory of Oman\n\nCulture of Oman\n\n\nSports in Oman\n\nEconomy of Oman\n\n\n\nOman\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14227252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14227252", "title": "Paradiplomacy", "text": "Paradiplomacy\n\nParadiplomacy is international relations conducted by subnational or regional governments on their own, with a view to promoting their own interests. With globalisation, non-state regions play an increasingly influential international role. Regions, federal states, provinces and cities seek their way to promote trade, investments, cooperation and partnership in a long list of subjects and account for a significant part of today's cross-borders contacts. This trend raises new interesting questions concerning public international law and opens a debate on the future of the state system that has provided the grounds for the international political order in the last centuries.\n\nAlthough the term \"paradiplomacy\" would be casually employed in the 1980s, it was introduced into the academic debate by the Canadian scholar Panayotis Soldatos. The American author Ivo Duchacek further developed the concept and became one of its main theoreticians. Other current denominations for paradiplomacy and related concepts are: multilayered diplomacy, substate diplomacy and intermestic affairs. This latter concept expresses a growing trend to the internationalization of domestic (\"\") issues, which takes local and regional concerns to the centre stage of international affairs.\n\nThe intention of local governments is thus to promote development by exploring complementarity with partners facing similar problems, with a view to joining forces to arrive at solutions more easily. In addition, they explore opportunities alongside international organizations that offer assistance programs for local development projects.\n\nIn its \"decentralized\" dimension, international cooperation is a phenomenon that emerged following the Second World War, when local governments in Europe - especially those in France, which were active coordinators of this new form of interaction - signed twinning agreements, principally with German local governments, in order to promote peaceful coexistence and the reconstruction of Europe. At that time, the twinning agreements had a strong cultural and political character while decentralized cooperation had the overarching aim of maintaining peace in the postwar period. However, from the 1970s, the interdependence created by globalization in different fields combined with the evolution of the concept of cooperation (from an assistance-driven to a developmental approach) to elevate the nature of the agreements to another level. At that point, local governments, as they acquired greater autonomy, recognized the importance of international issues in their day-to-day processes and saw decentralized cooperation as a means of overcoming their regional limitations, whether economic, technological, social, or others. From then on, the international participation of local governments has been increasingly evident in practice.\n\nParadiplomacy may be performed both in support of and in complementarity to the central state conducted diplomacy, or come in conflict or compete with it. Duchacek points out a distinction between: a) cross-border regional microdiplomacy, b) transregional microdiplomacy and c) global paradiplomacy, to describe: a) contacts between non-central units situated across borders in different states, b) contacts between non-central units without a common border but situated in neighboring states and c) contacts between units belonging to states without common borders. A comprising view of the phenomenon should also consider contacts in a wide range of multilateral associations of local authorities.\n\nNon-central governments may formally develop official international relations by: a) sending delegations in official visits; b) signing agreements, memoranda of understanding and other instruments; c) participating in international \"local\" fora; d) establishing permanent representative offices or delegations abroad.\n\nLocal governments seek international cooperation for economic, cultural or political reasons. In the economic field, it is known that most central governments cannot properly assist local communities in all their needs. They may lack expertise and cadres to fully understand local realities and to deal with their complexities. Local governments tend to think that central authorities do not show sufficient interest in helping them and find themselves perfectly able to pursue their own interest.\n\nIn the cultural field, some regions may seek to promote themselves internationally as an autonomous cultural entity. This is the case of the Spanish autonomous communities of Catalonia and the Basque Country. Some regions may seek to cooperate with their diasporas worldwide and try to gain the support of their nationals abroad in attaining their diplomatic goals.\n\nAs to the political aspects, local governments may join efforts internationally to pressure their central governments into a desired course of action. This strategy is exemplified in the case of eight memoranda of understanding signed, in the years 1980, between three American states and three Canadian provinces to control and combat acid rain, as the Reagan Administration and the American Congress could not reach a consensus on the matter. The cross-borders paradiplomatic efforts eventually led Washington to amend the Clean Air Act in 1990 and to sign with Canada, in 1991, the US/Canada Air Quality Agreement in which both countries agree on a timetable to reduce acid emissions.\n\nA particular kind of local political activism is called \"protodiplomacy\", through which a local government may seek international support for their emancipation or independence plans. This is typically the case of the Canadian province of Québec in the seventies, under the Parti Québécois.\n\nNon-central governments may be allowed to negotiate and sign agreements with foreign non-central authorities or even with the government of a foreign state. Conditions can vary largely from a limited capacity to negotiate with the assistance of their central authorities to a most complete autonomy based on sovereign constitutional prerogatives. This can not be the object of the international law. Only the internal law of the states is to determine which internal powers are entitled to do so and to which extent. In some states, the outward relations of their non-central governments is a constitutional matter directly related to the issue of legal competence.\n\nIn recent years the term 'city diplomacy' has gained increased usage and acceptance, particularly as a strand of paradiplomacy and public diplomacy. It is formally used in the workings of the United Cities and Local Governments and the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group and recognised by the USC Center on Public Diplomacy. A March 2014 debate in the British House of Lords acknowledged the evolution of town twinning into city diplomacy, particularly around trade and tourism, but also in culture and post-conflict reconciliation.\n\nFederative countries ordinarily set apart in their constitutions, when it comes to the internal division of powers, matters that are exclusive of the central authority. \"National defense\", \"currency\" and \"external relations\" are typically the case. However, as cross-border contacts become an imperative for sub-national communities, diplomacy is increasingly becoming a decentralized prerogative. Some states do formally recognize the stakes their political and administrative units have in foreign affairs and have, accordingly, set the required legal basis at a constitutional level. Legal provisions on this matter are present in the constitution of the following federations:\n\n\nSince 1994, an amendment to the \"Constitución de la Republica\" allows the provinces of Argentina (articles 124 and 125) to establish treaties and agreements with foreign nations to the effect of the administration of justice, economic interest or common utility works. Those treaties are \"partial\" (non-political) and must not contravene national law, affect the nation's public credit nor go against the external policies of the Argentine nation. It must also be approved by the National Congress.\n\nThe Constitution of Austria restricts the states' capacity to establish formal external ties to cross-border issues. Article 16 of the reformed text (28. June 2002) allows the \"Länder\" (states) to conclude treaties with neighboring states or with its constituent states in matters of their constitutional competence. The governor of the Land must inform the federal government from whom he must obtain authorization before engaging in international negotiations. If the federal government fails to respond within eight weeks, the request will be deemed to have been approved. The approval, whether express or tacit, obliges the Federal President to the agreed text, which must be countersigned by a federal authority. However, upon request of the federal government, the \"Länder\" must denounce the treaty. If the Land does not dully complies with its obligation, the federal government overtakes the responsibility. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 16 regulate further the competencies of the \"Länder\" and of the federal state in the implementation of treaties.\n\nA Belgium 1993 constitutional revision granted Regions and Communities the right to develop international co-operation, including the celebration of treaties, in matters of their exclusive competence (article 167 (3)). Cultural and educational matters are, according to article 127 (3), those fields of their exclusive competence. This faculty includes the drafting of treaties, which are ratified by the French and the Flemish Community Councils by decree (article 128 (1.1)). Article 130 (4) provides the same right to the German-speaking Community, and adds \"personal issues\" to its fields of competence. Since the Communities have acquired exclusive right to develop their international relations on those exclusive matters, the King cannot sign, ratify or denounce treaties on their behalf. Only the treaties concluded before 18 May 1993 may be denounced by the King. The rigidity of Belgium sphere of competences raised legal difficulties to the approval of international treaties dealing with both federal and community's issues. These treaties are known as \"traités mixtes\", and is the object of a co-operation agreement between the federal state, the Communities and the Regions (8 Mars 1994), which provides for a complex mechanism of shared responsibilities.\n\nCanadian provinces are among the most active sub-national units on the international stage. The total amount spent on diplomacy by the ten Canadian provinces is equal to that of the fifty American states, despite the fact Canada's population is one-ninth the size and the economy is only one-fourteenth as large. Canadian provinces are largely motivated by economic concerns stemming from the high degree of economic diversity between regions of the country and because of Canada's integration into world markets, especially the US market via NAFTA. Nine of the ten provinces trade more with the United States than with the rest of Canada. Relations with major trading partners, most especially the United States, are the most important. At the same time Quebec nationalism has motivated the French-speaking province of Quebec to pursue closer ties with France and the other members of la Francophonie. Furthermore, Canada's constitution is generally interpreted in a decentralist way, giving the provinces a great deal of responsibilities.\n\nWhile Québec has the strongest paradiplomatic presence, British Columbia and Saskatchewan formerly operated economic trade offices abroad; Nova Scotia operated a tourism office in Portland, Maine until 2009. Ontario formerly had representation in Boston, Atlanta, Chicago and Dallas; it continues to promote the province's industries from delegations in New York City and Los Angeles\n\nThe Basic Law of Germany states in its article 32(3) that \"Insofar as the \"Länder\" have power to legislate, they may, with the consent of the Federal Government, conclude treaties with foreign states\". The federal government must consult with the Länder, \"in sufficient time\", before concluding an international treaty that affects the special interest of one or more Länder. Article 59(2) requires the consent or participation of the Bundesrat (the German senate), as one of the \"bodies competent in any specific case\", on the approval of Treaties \"which regulate the political relations of the Federation or relate to matters of Federal legislation\". The German Bundesrat has been especially keen to assure the participation of the Länder in the European decision-making process.\n\nRussia, the world's most extensive state, shows a tradition of conveying the weight of its territorial units to foster external policy objectives. The Soviet Union is the only country ever to have subnational entities (the Ukrainian SSR and Byelorussian SSR) recognized as member states in the United Nations, which lasted from 1945 to 1991. \n"}
{"id": "11165681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11165681", "title": "Pawura", "text": "Pawura\n\nPawura, and also: Pauru, Piwure, Puuru/Puwuru was an Egyptian official of the 1350-1335 BC Amarna letters correspondence. As mentioned in letter no. 171, he was also an Egyptian \"archer–commander\". In letter no. 289 he is called an \"\"irpi\"–official\". In Egyptian his name means 'the Great One', (\"Pa-wr\"/\"Pa-ur\")(letter EA 287:45-\"1.-Pa-Ú-Ru\")\n\nPawura's name is referenced in the following letters: (EA for 'el Amarna')\n\nPawura's death is mentioned in the Rib-Hadda letters except EA 117, and 124, along with the demise of others, or the warring with the Habiru, or the leaders of Ammuru: (Abdi-Ashirta, or his son, Aziru).\n\nEA 171, Title: \"Eager to Serve\", + (Yanhamu)\n\nEA 289, Title: \"A Reckoning Demanded\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29053223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29053223", "title": "Pieter Melvill van Carnbee (geographer)", "text": "Pieter Melvill van Carnbee (geographer)\n\nPieter baron Melvill van Carnbee (born 20 May 1816 in The Hague – died 24 October 1856 in Batavia) was a Dutch geographer.\n\nMelvill van Carnbee traced his descent from an old Scottish family, originally, it is said, of Hungarian extraction. Destined for the navy, in which his grandfather Pieter Melvill van Carnbee (1743-1810) had been admiral, he had a taste for hydrography and cartography as a student in the college of Medemblik, and he showed his capacity as a surveyor on his first voyage to the Dutch Indies, in 1835. In 1839, he was again in the East, and was attached to the hydrographical bureau at Batavia. With the assistance of documents collected by the old East India Company, he completed a map of Java in five sheets, accompanied by sailing directions, in Amsterdam, in 1842. He remained in the East until 1845, collecting materials for a chart of the waters between Sumatra and Borneo, which was two sheets that were published in 1845 and 1846. In his absence, Melvill received the decoration of the Netherlands Lion in 1843, and that of the Legion of Honour in 1849.\n\nOn his return to the Netherlands he was attached to the naval department with the charge of studying the history of the hydrography of the Dutch East Indies. He also undertook, in connexion with P. F. von Siebold, the publication of the Moniteur des Indes, a valuable series of scientific papers, mainly from his own pen, on the foreign possessions of the Netherlands, which was continued for three years. In 1850, Melvill returned to India as lieutenant of the first class and adjutant to Vice-Admiral van den Bosch; and after the premature death of this commander he was again appointed keeper of the charts at Batavia. In 1853, he obtained exemption from active naval service that he might devote himself to a general atlas of the Dutch Indies. But, in 1856, he fell a victim to climate, dying at Batavia. In spite of delays in engraving, twenty-five sheets of the atlas were already finished, but it was not until 1862 that the whole plan, embracing sixty sheets, was completed by Lieutenant Colonel W. F. Versteeg.\n\nIn 1843 Melvill received the decoration of the Netherlands Lion, and in 1849 that of the Légion d'honneur.\n"}
{"id": "25590562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25590562", "title": "Rural Canada", "text": "Rural Canada\n\nRural Canada has many faces and many dimensions (social, cultural, economic, etc.) but the common element of most conceptualizations of \"rural\" is the spatial dimension. Rural is primarily low population density, small population size, and distance from high population density and big size. Not surprisingly, the prevailing definitions of “rural” (in Canada as in most countries) emphasize this spatial dimension. Rural Canada is usually defined by measures of population density, population size and distance from major agglomerations.\n\nIn 2006, the year of the last census of population, the Canadian population living in a rural area was between 19% and 30% of the total population, depending on the definition of \"rural\" used.\n\nThe OECD (1994) defined a “predominantly rural region” as having more than 50% of the population living in rural communities where a “rural community” has a population density less than 150 persons per square kilometre. In Canada, the census division has been used to represent “regions” and census consolidated sub-divisions have been used to represent “communities”. Intermediate regions have 15% to 49% of their population living in a rural community. Predominantly urban regions have less than 15% of their population living in a rural community. Predominantly rural regions are classified as rural metro-adjacent, rural non-metro-adjacent and rural northern, following Ehrensaft and Beeman (1992). Rural metro-adjacent regions are predominantly rural census divisions which are adjacent to metropolitan centres while rural non-metro-adjacent regions are those predominantly rural census divisions which are not adjacent to metropolitan centres. Rural northern regions are predominantly rural census divisions that are found either entirely or mostly above the following lines of parallel in each province: Newfoundland and Labrador, 50th; Quebec and Ontario, 54th; Manitoba, 53rd; Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia, 54th. As well, rural northern regions encompass all of the Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut.\n\nThis is the definition of rural used by Statistics Canada’s Census of Population. This definition has changed over time (see Appendix A in du Plessis et al., 2002). The current definition is a settlement with fewer than 1,000 or more population with a population density below 400 inhabitants per square kilometre (Statistics Canada, 2007).\n\nRural Canada is highly diverse. On virtually any possible measure of socio-economic, cultural and environmental characteristics, rural areas are found at the two extreme of the distribution. For instance, rural communities of Canada are found among the most affluent and among the most disadvantaged.\n"}
{"id": "5610322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5610322", "title": "Timeline of space exploration", "text": "Timeline of space exploration\n\nThis is for a timeline of space exploration including notable achievements and first accomplishments or major events in humanity's exploration of outer space.\n\nProject Vanguard was transferred from the NRL to NASA in late 1958.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21592164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21592164", "title": "Tongass Passage", "text": "Tongass Passage\n\nTongass Passage is a strait on the Canada–United States border between Alaska and British Columbia, located on the southwest side of Wales Island. Wales Island, and Pearse Island, to its northeast, were claimed by the United States prior to the settlement of the Alaska boundary dispute in 1903. Prior to that time, numerous American-owned canneries lined its shores. Canadian claims to the islands were affirmed in the Alaska Boundary Settlement of 1903, in which Tongass Passage, Pearse Canal and the Portland Canal were defined as comprising \"Portland Channel\", a term first used in the Anglo-Russian Treaty of 1825 as part of the marine boundary between Russian America and British claims in the region, but which remained undefined until the boundary settlement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19049467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19049467", "title": "Wong How Man", "text": "Wong How Man\n\nWong How Man (born 1949) is an explorer and photojournalist from Hong Kong, and founder and president of the China Exploration & Research Society (CERS), a preeminent nonprofit organization specializing in exploration, research, conservation and education in remote China. Between 1974, when he began exploring China as a journalist, and 1986, when he founded CERS, Wong led six major expeditions for the \"National Geographic\" magazine. His writing for the \"National Geographic\" was nominated for the Overseas Press Club Award of America. In his 1985 \"National Geographic\" expedition, Wong led a team that found a new source of the Yangtze River that is internationally recognized as the true geographic source of the river. During this expedition he came across the hanging coffins, Wong developed a long life obsession with this peculiar coffins. Wong documented this expedition in his 1989 book, \"Exploring the Yangtze: China's Longest River\". Twenty years later, Wong led a team to discover a new source, four miles west of the source that he had previously discovered. Subsequently, Wong led CERS expeditions that pinpointed the source of the Mekong in 2007 and discovered a new source for the Yellow River in 2008. In 2011, he and his team defined the source of the Salween River.\n\nWong has authored over a dozen books. Among these, \"From Manchuria to Tibet\" won the prestigious Lowell Thomas Travel Journalism Gold Award in 1999. His book \"Islamic Frontiers of China\" was published in the UK in 1990, long before the topic became of worldwide interest. His two CD-ROMs, \"Exploring the Yangtze\" and \"Tibet\", won 11 and 5 international awards respectively.\n\nWong's organization, CERS, has conducted scores of successful conservation projects, many of which became full-length documentary films. Wong is often invited as keynote speaker on important international lecture circuits for both corporations and select groups of audience. Many heads of State and elites of society have been among his audience. His work is supported by private foundations, individuals and corporations. Wong has received numerous awards, including an honorary doctorate from the University of Wisconsin in River Falls, Lifetime Achievement Award from Monk Hsing Yun. In 2002, \"Time\" named Wong as one of 25 Asians profiled in its special issue on \"Asian Heroes.\"\n\nWong How Man, \"Exploring the Yangtze: China's Longest River\" (China Books & Periodicals, 1989), \nWong How Man, \"Islamic Frontiers of China\" (Scorpion Publishing, 1990), \nWong How Man, \"From Manchuria to Tibet\" (Odyssey Publishing, 1998), \nWong How Man, \"Closer to Heaven - An Exploration Series\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2001), \nWong How Man, \"Closer to Earth - An Exploration Series\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2001), \nWong How Man, \"Black-necked Crane Rendezvous\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2002), \nWong How Man, \"Nature at Heart\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2003), \nWong How Man, \"Culture at Heart\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2003), \nWong How Man, \"Holy Mountain, Hidden Valley\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2007), \nWong How Man, \"Voyage of Discovery\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2007), \nWong How Man, \"As River Flows\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2009), \nWong How Man, \"Tales from Ancient Kingdom\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2009), \nWong How Man, \"Treasures in Our Midst\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2010), \nWong How Man, \"Heritage on Our Minds\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2010), \nWong How Man, Adel Awni Dajani, \"Islamic Frontiers of China: Peoples of the Silk Road\" (I.B.Tauris Publishers, 2010), \nWong How Man, \"Nature As My Companion\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2012), \nWong How Man, \"Culture As My Friend\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2012), \nWong How Man, \"Boundless Nature\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2013), \nWong How Man, \"Borderless Culture\" (Commonwealth Publishing Group, 2013), \n"}
{"id": "11791305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11791305", "title": "Záhorie Protected Landscape Area", "text": "Záhorie Protected Landscape Area\n\nZáhorie Protected Landscape Area () is the first lowland protected landscape area in Slovakia. It is located in the non-administrative Záhorie Region in West Slovakia. The Landscape Area protects 275.22 km² (106.26 mi²) and is divided into two separate parts – western and north-eastern. The western part starts near the village of Kúty in the north, follows the borders between Slovakia and Austria alongside the Morava River and ends near Stupava in the south. The north-eastern part is bordered by the Military District of Záhorie in the east and south.\n\nThe western part of the Landscape Area is formed by the Morava River and mainly consists of vast riparian zones and floodplains. This area is well preserved because it had been a strictly prohibited border between the Eastern Bloc and the Western Bloc for 40 years, known as the Iron Curtain. The area contains the largest water-meadows in Slovakia. The riparian forests, mainly in Horný les and Dolný les, contain trees similar to the original old growth forests. A vast network of channels, wetlands and small lakes is spread in the riparian zones and floodplains. These rich and dynamic geographical features bring an extensive variety of flora and fauna. Plants are represented by, for example, large areas of \"Clematis integrifolia\". The water habitat is dominantly occupied by animal groups such as crustaceans, molluscs, fish, amphibians and a lot of species of aquatic birds. The European beaver returned to this area from Austria, where it was reintroduced in the 1980s.\n\nThe north-eastern part contains sand deposited by aeolian processes, which create dunes. Because of its location, this area is an important route for migrating birds. The contrast between colder lower areas and warm sand dunes creates a bright variety of species. The warm and dry areas are home to the antlion and hoopoe. The fir forests are home to insect predators, which serve as a feeding ground for the European nightjar, woodlark and bats.\n\nIn the western part, the artificial levee alongside the Morava River and adjacent newly built biking trail contains boards and posters informing about wildlife and is also popular with hikers. The north-eastern part contains biking and hiking trails, offering unique sand dunes. Biking trails are interconnected with others outside the Landscape Area.\n\nProtected areas of Slovakia\n\n"}
{"id": "35613603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35613603", "title": "Étienne Mignot de Montigny", "text": "Étienne Mignot de Montigny\n\nÉtienne Mignot de Montigny (15 December 1714, in Paris – 6 May 1782) was a French engineer and geographer.\n\nIn the 1730s, he conducted research of textile industries in England, Switzerland and France. Subsequently, he was named a commissioner of the Ministry of Commerce. He was responsible for making improvements to industry and commerce through the application of new inventions and machinery. From 1758 to 1782 he was a member of the Académie Royale des Sciences. He was also an associate of the Prussian Academy of Sciences.\n\nWith César-François Cassini de Thury and Charles Étienne Louis Camus, he published the \"Carte de la France\".\n\n"}
