{"id": "42269518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42269518", "title": "2013 Best of Nollywood Awards", "text": "2013 Best of Nollywood Awards\n\nThe 5th Best of Nollywood Awards was held at Dome, Asaba, Delta State on December 5, 2013. Several notable personalities like Juliet Ibrahim, Omoni Oboli and Richard Mofe Damijo were in attendance. The Dark Comedy film \"Confusion Na Wa\" won the category \"Movie of the Year\".\n"}
{"id": "240755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240755", "title": "Aesop's Fables", "text": "Aesop's Fables\n\nAesop's Fables, or the Aesopica, is a collection of fables credited to Aesop, a slave and storyteller believed to have lived in ancient Greece between 620 and 564 BCE. Of diverse origins, the stories associated with his name have descended to modern times through a number of sources and continue to be reinterpreted in different verbal registers and in popular as well as artistic media.\n\nThe fables originally belonged to the oral tradition and were not collected for some three centuries after Aesop's death. By that time a variety of other stories, jokes and proverbs were being ascribed to him, although some of that material was from sources earlier than him or came from beyond the Greek cultural sphere. The process of inclusion has continued until the present, with some of the fables unrecorded before the later Middle Ages and others arriving from outside Europe. The process is continuous and new stories are still being added to the Aesop corpus, even when they are demonstrably more recent work and sometimes from known authors.\n\nManuscripts in Latin and Greek were important avenues of transmission, although poetical treatments in European vernaculars eventually formed another. On the arrival of printing, collections of Aesop's fables were among the earliest books in a variety of languages. Through the means of later collections, and translations or adaptations of them, Aesop's reputation as a fabulist was transmitted throughout the world.\n\nInitially the fables were addressed to adults and covered religious, social and political themes. They were also put to use as ethical guides and from the Renaissance onwards were particularly used for the education of children. Their ethical dimension was reinforced in the adult world through depiction in sculpture, painting and other illustrative means, as well as adaptation to drama and song. In addition, there have been reinterpretations of the meaning of fables and changes in emphasis over time.\n\nApollonius of Tyana, a 1st-century CE philosopher, is recorded as having said about Aesop:\n\nThe Greek historian Herodotus mentioned in passing that \"Aesop the fable writer\" was a slave who lived in Ancient Greece during the 5th century BCE. Among references in other writers, Aristophanes, in his comedy \"The Wasps\", represented the protagonist Philocleon as having learnt the \"absurdities\" of Aesop from conversation at banquets; Plato wrote in \"Phaedo \"that Socrates whiled away his time in prison turning some of Aesop's fables \"which he knew\" into verses. Nonetheless, for two main reasons – because numerous morals within Aesop's attributed fables contradict each other, and because ancient accounts of Aesop's life contradict each other – the modern view is that Aesop was not the originator of all those fables attributed to him. Instead, any fable tended to be ascribed to the name of Aesop if there was no known alternative literary source.\n\nIn Classical times there were various theorists who tried to differentiate these fables from other kinds of narration. They had to be short and unaffected; in addition, they are fictitious, useful to life and true to nature. In them could be found talking animals and plants, although humans interacting only with humans figure in a few. Typically they might begin with a contextual introduction, followed by the story, often with the moral underlined at the end. Setting the context was often necessary as a guide to the story's interpretation, as in the case of the political meaning of The Frogs Who Desired a King and The Frogs and the Sun.\n\nSometimes the titles given later to the fables have become proverbial, as in the case of killing the Goose that Laid the Golden Eggs or the Town Mouse and the Country Mouse. In fact some fables, such as The Young Man and the Swallow, appear to have been invented as illustrations of already existing proverbs. One theorist, indeed, went so far as to define fables as extended proverbs. In this they have an aetiological function, the explaining of origins such as, in another context, why the ant is a mean, thieving creature or how the tortoise got its shell. Other fables, also verging on this function, are outright jokes, as in the case of The Old Woman and the Doctor, aimed at greedy practitioners of medicine.\n\nThe contradictions between fables already mentioned and alternative versions of much the same fable – as in the case of The Woodcutter and the Trees, are best explained by the ascription to Aesop of all examples of the genre. Some are demonstrably of West Asian origin, others have analogues further to the East. Modern scholarship reveals fables and proverbs of Aesopic form existing in both ancient Sumer and Akkad, as early as the third millennium BCE. Aesop's fables and the Indian tradition, as represented by the Buddhist \"Jataka tales\" and the Hindu \"Panchatantra\", share about a dozen tales in common, although often widely differing in detail. There is some debate over whether the Greeks learned these fables from Indian storytellers or the other way, or if the influences were mutual.\n\nLoeb editor Ben E. Perry took the extreme position in his book \"Babrius and Phaedrus\" (1965) that\n\nAlthough Aesop and the Buddha were near contemporaries, the stories of neither were recorded in writing until some centuries after their death. Few disinterested scholars would now be prepared to make so absolute a stand as Perry about their origin in view of the conflicting and still emerging evidence.\n\nWhen and how the fables arrived in and travelled from ancient Greece remains uncertain. Some cannot be dated any earlier than Babrius and Phaedrus, several centuries after Aesop, and yet others even later. The earliest mentioned collection was by Demetrius of Phalerum, an Athenian orator and statesman of the 4th century BCE, who compiled the fables into a set of ten books for the use of orators. A follower of Aristotle, he simply catalogued all the fables that earlier Greek writers had used in isolation as exempla, putting them into prose. At least it was evidence of what was attributed to Aesop by others; but this may have included any ascription to him from the oral tradition in the way of animal fables, fictitious anecdotes, etiological or satirical myths, possibly even any proverb or joke, that these writers transmitted. It is more a proof of the power of Aesop's name to attract such stories to it than evidence of his actual authorship. In any case, although the work of Demetrius was mentioned frequently for the next twelve centuries, and was considered the official Aesop, no copy now survives. Present day collections evolved from the later Greek version of Babrius, of which there now exists an incomplete manuscript of some 160 fables in choliambic verse. Current opinion is that he lived in the 1st century CE. The version of 55 fables in choliambic tetrameters by the 9th century CE Ignatius the Deacon is also worth mentioning for its early inclusion of tales from Oriental sources.\n\nFurther light is thrown on the entry of Oriental stories into the Aesopic canon by their appearance in Jewish commentaries on the Talmud and in Midrashic literature from the 1st century CE. There is a comparative list of these on the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" website of which twelve resemble those that are common to both Greek and Indian sources, six are parallel to those only in Indian sources, and six others in Greek only. Where similar fables exist in Greece, India, and in the Talmud, the Talmudic form approaches more nearly the Indian. Thus, the fable \"The Wolf and the Crane\" is told in India of a lion and another bird. When Joshua ben Hananiah told that fable to the Jews, to prevent their rebelling against Rome and once more putting their heads into the lion's jaws (Gen. R. lxiv.), he shows familiarity with some form derived from India.\n\nThe first extensive translation of Aesop into Latin iambic trimeters was performed by Phaedrus, a freedman of Augustus in the 1st century CE, although at least one fable had already been translated by the poet Ennius two centuries before, and others are referred to in the work of Horace. The rhetorician Aphthonius of Antioch wrote a technical treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some forty of these fables in 315. It is notable as illustrating contemporary and later usage of fables in rhetorical practice. Teachers of philosophy and rhetoric often set the fables of Aesop as an exercise for their scholars, inviting them not only to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practise style and the rules of grammar by making new versions of their own. A little later the poet Ausonius handed down some of these fables in verse, which the writer Julianus Titianus translated into prose, and in the early 5th century Avianus put 42 of these fables into Latin elegiacs.\n\nThe largest, oldest known and most influential of the prose versions of Phaedrus bears the name of an otherwise unknown fabulist named Romulus. It contains 83 fables, dates from the 10th century and seems to have been based on an earlier prose version which, under the name of \"Aesop\" and addressed to one Rufus, may have been written in the Carolingian period or even earlier. The collection became the source from which, during the second half of the Middle Ages, almost all the collections of Latin fables in prose and verse were wholly or partially drawn. A version of the first three books of Romulus in elegiac verse, possibly made around the 12th century, was one of the most highly influential texts in medieval Europe. Referred to variously (among other titles) as the verse Romulus or elegiac Romulus, and ascribed to Gualterus Anglicus, it was a common Latin teaching text and was popular well into the Renaissance. Another version of Romulus in Latin elegiacs was made by Alexander Neckam, born at St Albans in 1157.\n\nInterpretive \"translations\" of the elegiac Romulus were very common in Europe in the Middle Ages. Among the earliest was one in the 11th century by Ademar of Chabannes, which includes some new material. This was followed by a prose collection of parables by the Cistercian preacher Odo of Cheriton around 1200 where the fables (many of which are not Aesopic) are given a strong medieval and clerical tinge. This interpretive tendency, and the inclusion of yet more non-Aesopic material, was to grow as versions in the various European vernaculars began to appear in the following centuries.\nWith the revival of literary Latin during the Renaissance, authors began compiling collections of fables in which those traditionally by Aesop and those from other sources appeared side by side. One of the earliest was by Lorenzo Bevilaqua, also known as Laurentius Abstemius, who wrote 197 fables, the first hundred of which were published as \"Hecatomythium\" in 1495. Little by Aesop was included. At the most, some traditional fables are adapted and reinterpreted: The Lion and the Mouse is continued and given a new ending (fable 52); The Oak and the Reed becomes \"The Elm and the Willow\" (53); The Ant and the Grasshopper is adapted as \"The Gnat and the Bee\" (94) with the difference that the gnat offers to teach music to the bee's children. There are also Mediaeval tales such as The Mice in Council (195) and stories created to support popular proverbs such as 'Still Waters Run Deep' (5) and 'A woman, an ass and a walnut tree' (65), where the latter refers back to Aesop's fable of The Walnut Tree. Most of the fables in \"Hecatomythium\" were later translated in the second half of Roger L'Estrange's \"Fables of Aesop and other eminent mythologists\" (1692); some also appeared among the 102 in H. Clarke's Latin reader, \"Select fables of Aesop: with an English translation\" (1787), of which there were both English and American editions.\n\nThere were later three notable collections of fables in verse, among which the most influential was Gabriele Faerno's \"Centum Fabulae\" (1564). The majority of the hundred fables there are Aesop's but there are also humorous tales such as The drowned woman and her husband (41) and The miller, his son and the donkey (100). In the same year that Faerno was published in Italy, Hieronymus Osius brought out a collection of 294 fables titled \"Fabulae Aesopi carmine elegiaco redditae\" in Germany. This too contained some from elsewhere, such as The Dog in the Manger (67). Then in 1604 the Austrian Pantaleon Weiss, known as Pantaleon Candidus, published \"Centum et Quinquaginta Fabulae\". The 152 poems there were grouped by subject, with sometimes more than one devoted to the same fable, although presenting alternative versions of it, as in the case of The Hawk and the Nightingale (133-5). It also includes the earliest instance of The Lion, the Bear and the Fox (60) in a language other than Greek.\n\nAnother voluminous collection of fables in Latin verse was Anthony Alsop's \"Fabularum Aesopicarum Delectus\" (Oxford 1698). The bulk of the 237 fables there are prefaced by the text in Greek, while there are also a handful in Hebrew and in Arabic; the final fables, only attested from Latin sources, are without other versions. For the most part the poems are confined to a lean telling of the fable without drawing a moral.\n\nFor many centuries the main transmission of Aesop's fables across Europe remained in Latin or else orally in various vernaculars, where they mixed with folk tales derived from other sources. This mixing is often apparent in early vernacular collections of fables in mediaeval times.\nThe main impetus behind the translation of large collections of fables attributed to Aesop and translated into European languages came from an early printed publication in Germany. There had been many small selections in various languages during the Middle Ages but the first attempt at an exhaustive edition was made by Heinrich Steinhőwel in his \"Esopus\", published . This contained both Latin versions and German translations and also included a translation of Rinuccio da Castiglione (or d'Arezzo)'s version from the Greek of a life of Aesop (1448). Some 156 fables appear, collected from Romulus, Avianus and other sources, accompanied by a commentarial preface and moralising conclusion, and 205 woodcuts. Translations or versions based on Steinhöwel's book followed shortly in Italian (1479), French (1480), Czech (1480) and English (the Caxton edition of 1484) and were many times reprinted before the start of the 16th century. The Spanish version of 1489, \"La vida del Ysopet con sus fabulas hystoriadas\" was equally successful and often reprinted in both the Old and New World through three centuries.\n\nSome fables were later treated creatively in collections of their own by authors in such a way that they became associated with their names rather than Aesop's. The most celebrated were La Fontaine's Fables, published in French during the later 17th century. Inspired by the brevity and simplicity of Aesop's, those in the first six books were heavily dependent on traditional Aesopic material; fables in the next six were more diffuse and diverse in origin.\nAt the start of the 19th century, some of the fables were adapted into Russian, and often reinterpreted, by the fabulist Ivan Krylov. In most cases, but not all, these were dependent on La Fontaine's versions.\n\nTranslations into Asian languages at a very early date derive originally from Greek sources. These include the so-called \"Fables of Syntipas\", a compilation of Aesopic fables in Syriac, dating from the 9/11th centuries. Included there were several other tales of possibly West Asian origin. In Central Asia there was a 10th-century collection of the fables in Uighur.\n\nAfter the Middle Ages, fables largely deriving from Latin sources were passed on by Europeans as part of their colonial or missionary enterprises. 47 fables were translated into the Nahuatl language in the late 16th century under the title \"In zazanilli in Esopo\". The work of a native translator, it adapted the stories to fit the Mexican environment, incorporating Aztec concepts and rituals and making them rhetorically more subtle than their Latin source.\n\nPortuguese missionaries arriving in Japan at the end of the 16th century introduced Japan to the fables when a Latin edition was translated into romanized Japanese. The title was \"Esopo no Fabulas\" and dates to 1593. It was soon followed by a fuller translation into a three-volume kanazōshi entitled . This was the sole Western work to survive in later publication after the expulsion of Westerners from Japan, since by that time the figure of Aesop had been acculturated and presented as if he were Japanese. Coloured woodblock editions of individual fables were made by Kawanabe Kyosai in the 19th century.\n\nThe first translations of Aesop's Fables into the Chinese languages were made at the start of the 17th century, the first substantial collection being of 38 conveyed orally by a Jesuit missionary named Nicolas Trigault and written down by a Chinese academic named Zhang Geng (Chinese: 張賡; pinyin: \"Zhāng Gēng\") in 1625. This was followed two centuries later by \"Yishi Yuyan\" 《意拾喻言》 (\"Esop's Fables: written in Chinese by the Learned Mun Mooy Seen-Shang, and compiled in their present form with a free and a literal translation\") in 1840 by Robert Thom and apparently based on the version by Roger L'Estrange. This work was initially very popular until someone realised the fables were anti-authoritarian and the book was banned for a while. A little later, however, in the foreign concession in Shanghai, A.B. Cabaniss brought out a transliterated translation in Shanghai dialect, \"Yisuopu yu yan\" (伊娑菩喻言, 1856). There have also been 20th century translations by Zhou Zuoren and others.\nTranslations into the languages of South Asia began at the very start of the 19th century. \"The Oriental Fabulist\" (1803) contained roman script versions in Bengali, Hindi and Urdu. Adaptations followed in Marathi (1806) and Bengali (1816), and then complete collections in Hindi (1837), Kannada (1840), Urdu (1850), Tamil (1853) and Sindhi (1854). Outside the British Raj, Jagat Sundar Malla's translation into the Newar language of Nepal was published in 1915.\n\nIn Burma, which had its own ethical folk tradition based on the Buddhist Jataka Tales, the reason behind the joint Pali and Burmese language translation of Aesop's fables in 1880 is suggested by its being published from Rangoon by the American Missionary Press.\n\nThe 18th to 19th centuries saw a vast amount of fables in verse being written in all European languages. Regional languages and dialects in the Romance area made use of versions adapted from La Fontaine or the equally popular Jean-Pierre Claris de Florian. One of the earliest publications was the anonymous \"Fables Causides en Bers Gascouns\" (Selected fables in the Gascon language, Bayonne, 1776), which contains 106. J. Foucaud's \"Quelques fables choisies de La Fontaine en patois limousin\" in the Occitan Limousin dialect followed in 1809.\n\nVersions in Breton were written by Pierre Désiré de Goësbriand (1784–1853) in 1836 and Yves Louis Marie Combeau (1799–1870) between 1836 and 1838. Two translations into Basque followed mid-century: 50 in J-B. Archu's \"Choix de Fables de La Fontaine, traduites en vers basques\" (1848) and 150 in \"Fableac edo aleguiac Lafontenetaric berechiz hartuac\" (Bayonne, 1852) by Abbé Martin Goyhetche (1791–1859). The turn of Provençal came in 1859 with \"Li Boutoun de guèto, poésies patoises\" by Antoine Bigot (1825–1897), followed by several other collections of fables in the Nîmes dialect between 1881 and 1891. Alsatian (German) versions of La Fontaine appeared in 1879 after the region was ceded following the Franco-Prussian War. At the end of the following century, Brother Denis-Joseph Sibler (1920–2002), published a collection of adaptations into this dialect that has gone through several impressions since 1995.\n\nThere were many adaptations of La Fontaine into the dialects of the west of France (Poitevin-Saintongeais). Foremost among these was \"Recueil de fables et contes en patois saintongeais\" (1849) by lawyer and linguist (1806–1873). Other adaptors writing about the same time include Pierre-Jacques Luzeau (1808– ), Edouard Lacuve (1828–1899) and Marc Marchadier (1830–1898). In the 20th century there have been Marcel Rault (whose pen name is Diocrate), Eugène Charrier, Fr Arsène Garnier, Marcel Douillard and Pierre Brisard. Further to the north, the journalist and historian Géry Herbert (1926–1985) adapted some fables to the Cambrai dialect of Picard, known locally as Ch'ti. More recent translators of fables into this dialect have included Jo Tanghe (2005) and Guillaume de Louvencourt (2009).\n\nDuring the 19th century renaissance of literature in Walloon dialect, several authors adapted versions of the fables to the racy speech (and subject matter) of Liège. They included (in 1842); Joseph Lamaye (1845); and the team of (1847, 1851–52) and François Bailleux (1851–67), who between them covered books I-VI. Adaptations into other dialects were made by Charles Letellier (Mons, 1842) and Charles Wérotte (Namur, 1844); much later, Léon Bernus published some hundred imitations of La Fontaine in the dialect of Charleroi (1872); he was followed during the 1880s by , writing in the Borinage dialect under the pen-name Bosquètia. In the 20th century there has been a selection of fifty fables in the Condroz dialect by Joseph Houziaux (1946), to mention only the most prolific in an ongoing surge of adaptation. The motive behind all this activity in both France and Belgium was to assert regional specificity against growing centralism and the encroachment of the language of the capital on what had until then been predominantly monoglot areas.\n\nIn the 20th century there have also been translations into regional dialects of English. These include the examples in Addison Hibbard's \"Aesop in Negro Dialect\" (USA, 1926) and the twenty six in Robert Stephen's \"Fables of Aesop in Scots Verse\" (Peterhead, Scotland, 1987). The latter were in Aberdeenshire dialect (also known as Doric). Glasgow University has also been responsible for R.W. Smith's modernised dialect translation of Robert Henryson's \"The Morall Fabillis of Esope the Phrygian\" (1999, see above). The University of Illinois likewise included dialect translations by Norman Shapiro in its \"Creole echoes: the francophone poetry of nineteenth-century Louisiana\" (2004, see below).\n\nCaribbean creole also saw a flowering of such adaptations from the middle of the 19th century onwards – initially as part of the colonialist project but later as an assertion of love for and pride in the dialect. A version of La Fontaine's fables in the dialect of Martinique was made by François-Achille Marbot (1817–1866) in \"Les Bambous, Fables de la Fontaine travesties en patois\" (Port Royal, 1846) which had lasting success. As well as two later editions in Martinique, there were two more published in France in 1870 and 1885 and others in the 20th century. Later dialect fables by Paul Baudot (1801–1870) from neighbouring Guadeloupe owed nothing to La Fontaine, but in 1869 some translated examples did appear in a grammar of Trinidadian French creole written by John Jacob Thomas. Then the start of the new century saw the publication of Georges Sylvain's \"Cric? Crac! Fables de la Fontaine racontées par un montagnard haïtien et transcrites en vers créoles\" (La Fontaine's fables told by a Haiti highlander and written in creole verse, 1901).\n\nOn the South American mainland, Alfred de Saint-Quentin published a selection of fables freely adapted from La Fontaine into Guyanese creole in 1872. This was among a collection of poems and stories (with facing translations) in a book that also included a short history of the territory and an essay on creole grammar. On the other side of the Caribbean, Jules Choppin (1830–1914) was adapting La Fontaine to the Louisiana slave creole at the end of the 19th century in versions that are still appreciated. The New Orleans author Edgar Grima (1847–1939) also adapted La Fontaine into both standard French and into dialect.\n\nVersions in the French creole of the islands in the Indian Ocean began somewhat earlier than in the Caribbean. (1801–1856) emigrated from Brittany to Réunion in 1820. Having become a schoolmaster, he adapted some of La Fontaine's fables into the local dialect in \"Fables créoles dédiées aux dames de l'île Bourbon\" (Creole fables for island women). This was published in 1829 and went through three editions. In addition 49 fables of La Fontaine were adapted to the Seychelles dialect around 1900 by Rodolphine Young (1860–1932) but these remained unpublished until 1983. Jean-Louis Robert's recent translation of Babrius into Réunion creole (2007) adds a further motive for such adaptation. Fables began as an expression of the slave culture and their background is in the simplicity of agrarian life. Creole transmits this experience with greater purity than the urbane language of the slave-owner.\nFables belong essentially to the oral tradition; they survive by being remembered and then retold in one's own words. When they are written down, particularly in the dominant language of instruction, they lose something of their essence. A strategy for reclaiming them is therefore to exploit the gap between the written and the spoken language. One of those who did this in English was Sir Roger L'Estrange, who translated the fables into the racy urban slang of his day and further underlined their purpose by including in his collection many of the subversive Latin fables of Laurentius Abstemius. In France the fable tradition had already been renewed in the 17th century by La Fontaine's influential reinterpretations of Aesop and others. In the centuries that followed there were further reinterpretations through the medium of regional languages, which to those at the centre were regarded as little better than slang. Eventually, however, the demotic tongue of the cities themselves began to be appreciated as a literary medium.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of these urban slang translations was the series of individual fables contained in a single folded sheet, appearing under the title of \"Les Fables de Gibbs\" in 1929. Others written during the period were eventually anthologised as \"Fables de La Fontaine en argot\" (Étoile sur Rhône 1989). This followed the genre's growth in popularity after World War II. Two short selections of fables by Bernard Gelval about 1945 were succeeded by two selections of 15 fables each by 'Marcus' (Paris 1947, reprinted in 1958 and 2006), Api Condret's \"Recueil des fables en argot\" (Paris, 1951) and Géo Sandry (1897–1975) and Jean Kolb's \"Fables en argot\" (Paris 1950/60). The majority of such printings were privately produced leaflets and pamphlets, often sold by entertainers at their performances, and are difficult to date. Some of these poems then entered the repertoire of noted performers such as Boby Forest and Yves Deniaud, of which recordings were made. In the south of France, Georges Goudon published numerous folded sheets of fables in the post-war period. Described as monologues, they use Lyon slang and the Mediterranean Lingua Franca known as Sabir.\nSlang versions by others continue to be produced in various parts of France, both in printed and recorded form.\n\nThe first printed version of Aesop's Fables in English was published on March 26, 1484, by William Caxton. Many others, in prose and verse, followed over the centuries. In the 20th century Ben E. Perry edited the Aesopic fables of Babrius and Phaedrus for the Loeb Classical Library and compiled a numbered index by type in 1952. Olivia and Robert Temple's Penguin edition is titled \"The Complete Fables by Aesop\" (1998) but in fact many from Babrius, Phaedrus and other major ancient sources have been omitted. More recently, in 2002 a translation by Laura Gibbs titled \"Aesop's Fables\" was published by Oxford World's Classics. This book includes 359 and has selections from all the major Greek and Latin sources.\n\nUntil the 18th century the fables were largely put to adult use by teachers, preachers, speech-makers and moralists. It was the philosopher John Locke who first seems to have advocated targeting children as a special audience in \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" (1693). Aesop's fables, in his opinion are\n\nThat young people are a special target for the fables was not a particularly new idea and a number of ingenious schemes for catering to that audience had already been put into practice in Europe. The \"Centum Fabulae\" of Gabriele Faerno was commissioned by Pope Pius IV in the 16th century 'so that children might learn, at the same time and from the same book, both moral and linguistic purity'. When King Louis XIV of France wanted to instruct his six-year-old son, he incorporated the series of hydraulic statues representing 38 chosen fables in the labyrinth of Versailles in the 1670s. In this he had been advised by Charles Perrault, who was later to translate Faerno's widely published Latin poems into French verse and so bring them to a wider audience. Then in the 1730s appeared the eight volumes of \"Nouvelles Poésies Spirituelles et Morales sur les plus beaux airs\", the first six of which incorporated a section of fables specifically aimed at children. In this the fables of La Fontaine were rewritten to fit popular airs of the day and arranged for simple performance. The preface to this work comments that 'we consider ourselves happy if, in giving them an attraction to useful lessons which are suited to their age, we have given them an aversion to the profane songs which are often put into their mouths and which only serve to corrupt their innocence.' The work was popular and reprinted into the following century.\n\nIn the UK various authors began to develop this new market in the 18th century, giving a brief outline of the story and what was usually a longer commentary on its moral and practical meaning. The first of such works is Reverend Samuel Croxall's \"Fables of Aesop and Others, newly done into English with an Application to each Fable\". First published in 1722, with engravings by Elisha Kirkall for each fable, it was continuously reprinted into the second half of the 19th century. Another popular collection was John Newbery's \"Fables in Verse for the Improvement of the Young and the Old\", facetiously attributed to Abraham Aesop Esquire, which was to see ten editions after its first publication in 1757. Robert Dodsley's three-volume \"Select Fables of Esop and other Fabulists\" is distinguished for several reasons. First that it was printed in Birmingham by John Baskerville in 1761; second that it appealed to children by having the animals speak in character, the Lion in regal style, the Owl with 'pomp of phrase'; thirdly because it gathers into three sections fables from ancient sources, those that are more recent (including some borrowed from Jean de la Fontaine), and new stories of his own invention.\n\nThomas Bewick's editions from Newcastle upon Tyne are equally distinguished for the quality of his woodcuts. The first of those under his name was the \"Select Fables in Three Parts\" published in 1784. This was followed in 1818 by \"The Fables of Aesop and Others\". The work is divided into three sections: the first has some of Dodsley's fables prefaced by a short prose moral; the second has 'Fables with Reflections', in which each story is followed by a prose and a verse moral and then a lengthy prose reflection; the third, 'Fables in Verse', includes fables from other sources in poems by several unnamed authors; in these the moral is incorporated into the body of the poem.\n\nIn the early 19th century authors turned to writing verse specifically for children and included fables in their output. One of the most popular was the writer of nonsense verse, Richard Scrafton Sharpe (died 1852), whose \"Old Friends in a New Dress: familiar fables in verse\" first appeared in 1807 and went through five steadily augmented editions until 1837. Jefferys Taylor's \"Aesop in Rhyme, with some originals\", first published in 1820, was as popular and also went through several editions. The versions are lively but Taylor takes considerable liberties with the story line. Both authors were alive to the over serious nature of the 18th century collections and tried to remedy this. Sharpe in particular discussed the dilemma they presented and recommended a way round it, tilting at the same time at the format in Croxall's fable collection:\n\nSharpe was also the originator of the limerick, but his versions of Aesop are in popular song measures and it was not until 1887 that the limerick form was ingeniously applied to the fables. This was in a magnificently hand-produced Arts and Crafts Movement edition, \"The Baby's Own Aesop: being the fables condensed in rhyme with portable morals pictorially pointed by Walter Crane\".\n\nSome later prose editions were particularly notable for their illustrations. Among these was \"Aesop's fables: a new version, chiefly from original sources\" (1848) by Thomas James, 'with more than one hundred illustrations designed by John Tenniel'. Tenniel himself did not think highly of his work there and took the opportunity to redraw some in the revised edition of 1884, which also used pictures by Ernest Henry Griset and Harrison Weir. Once the technology was in place for coloured reproductions, illustrations became ever more attractive. Notable early 20th century editions include V.S. Vernon Jones' new translation of the fables accompanied by the pictures of Arthur Rackham (London, 1912) and in the USA \"Aesop for Children\" (Chicago, 1919), illustrated by Milo Winter.\n\nThe illustrations from Croxall's editions were an early inspiration for other artefacts aimed at children. In the 18th century they appear on tableware from the Chelsea, Wedgwood and Fenton potteries, for example. 19th century examples with a definitely educational aim include the fable series used on the alphabet plates issued in great numbers from the Brownhills Pottery in Staffordshire. Fables were used equally early in the design of tiles to surround the nursery fireplace. The latter were even more popular in the 19th century when there were specially designed series from Mintons, Minton-Hollins and Maw & Co. In France too, well-known illustrations of La Fontaine's fables were often used on china.\nIn Classical times there was an overlap between fable and myth, especially where they had an aetiological function. Among those are two which deal with the difference between humans and animals. According to the first, humans are distinguished by their rationality. But in those cases where they have a bestial mentality, the explanation is that at creation animals were found to outnumber humans and some were therefore modified in shape but retained their animal souls.\n\nSuch early philosophical speculation was also extended to the ethical problems connected with divine justice. For example, it was perceived as disproportionate for an evil man to be punished by dying in a shipwreck when it involved many other innocent people. The god Hermes explained this to an objector by the human analogy of a man bitten by an ant and in consequence stamping on all those about his feet. Again, it was asked why the consequences of an evil deed did not follow immediately it was committed. Hermes was involved here too, since he records men's acts on potsherds and takes them to Zeus piled in a box. The god of justice, however, goes through them in reverse order and the penalty may therefore be delayed. However, where the fault is perceived as an act of defiance, as happens in the fable of Horkos, retribution arrives swiftly.\nSome fables may express open scepticism, as in the story of the man marketing a statue of Hermes who boasted of its effectiveness. Asked why he was disposing of such an asset, the huckster explains that the god takes his time in granting favours while he himself needs immediate cash. In another example, a farmer whose mattock has been stolen goes to a temple to see if the culprit can be found by divination. On his arrival he hears an announcement asking for information about a robbery at the temple and concludes that a god who cannot look after his own must be useless. But the contrary position, against reliance on religious ritual, was taken in fables like Hercules and the Wagoner that illustrate the proverb \"god helps those who help themselves\". The story was also to become a favourite centuries later in Protestant England, where one commentator took the extreme position that to neglect the necessity of self-help is \"blasphemy\" and that it is \"a great sin for a man to fail in his trade or occupation by running often to prayers\".\n\nAs the fables moved out of the Greek-speaking world and were adapted to different times and religions, it is notable how radically some fables were reinterpreted. Thus one of the fables collected under the title of the Lion's share and originally directed against tyranny became in the hands of Rumi a parable of oneness with the God of Islam and obedience to divine authority. In the Jewish 'fox fables' of Berechiah ha-Nakdan, the humorous account of the hares and the frogs was made the occasion to recommend trust in God, while Christian reinterpretation of animal symbolism in Mediaeval times turned The Wolf and the Crane into a parable of the rescue of the sinner's soul from Hell.\n\nIn Mediaeval times too, fables were collected for use in sermons, of which Odo of Cheriton's \"Parobolae\" is just one example. At the start of the Reformation, Martin Luther followed his example in the work now known as the Coburg Fables. Another source of Christianized fables was in the emblem books of the 16th-17th centuries. In Georgette de Montenay's \"Emblemes ou devises chrestiennes\" (1571), for example, the fable of The Oak and the Reed was depicted in the context of the lines from the Magnificat, \"He hath put down the mighty from their seats and exalted them of low degree\" (Luke 1.52, AV).\n\nOnce the fables were perceived as primarily for the instruction of children, a new generation of Christian writers began putting their own construction on them, often at odds with their original interpretation. An extreme example occurs in a compilation called \"Christian Fables\" from the Victorian era, where The North Wind and the Sun is referred to Biblical passages in which religion is compared to a cloak. Therefore, says the author, one should beware of abandoning one's beliefs under the sun of prosperity. Demonstrably, the essence of fables is their adaptability. Beginning two and a half millennia ago with aetiological solutions to philosophical problems, fresh religious applications were continuing into the present.\n\nThe success of La Fontaine's fables in France started a European fashion for creating plays around them. The originator was Edmé Boursault, with his five-act verse drama \"Les Fables d'Esope\" (1690), later retitled \"Esope à la ville\" (Aesop in town). Such was its popularity that a rival theatre produced Eustache Le Noble's \"Arlaquin-Esope\" in the following year. Boursault then wrote a sequel, \"Esope à la cour\" (Aesop at court), a heroic comedy that was held up by the censors and not produced until after his death in 1701. Some forty years later wrote two one-act pieces, \"Esope au Parnasse\" and \"Esope du temps\".\n\n\"Esope à la ville\" was written in alexandrine couplets and depicted a physically ugly Aesop acting as adviser to Learchus, governor of Cyzicus under King Croesus, and using his fables as satirical comments on those seeking his favour or to solve romantic problems. One of the problems is personal to Aesop, since he is betrothed to the governor's daughter, who detests him and has a young admirer with whom she is in love. There is very little action, the play serving as a platform for the recitation of free verse fables at frequent intervals. These include The Fox and the Weasel, The Fox and the Mask, The Belly and the Other Members, the Town Mouse and the Country Mouse, the Fox and the Crow, the Crab and her Daughter, The Frog and the Ox, the Cook and the Swan, The Wolf and the Lamb, The Mountain in Labour, and The Man with two Mistresses. Two others – The Nightingale, The Lark and the Butterfly – appear original to the author, while a third, The Doves and the Vulture, is in fact an adapted version of The Frogs and the Sun.\n\"Esope à la cour\" is more of a moral satire, most scenes being set pieces for the application of fables to moral problems, but to supply romantic interest Aesop's mistress Rhodope is introduced. Among the sixteen fables included, only four derive from La Fontaine – The Heron and the Fish, the Lion and the Mouse, the Dove and the Ant, the Sick Lion – while a fifth borrows a moral from another of his but alters the details, and a sixth has as apologue a maxim of Antoine de La Rochefoucauld. After a modest few performances, the piece later grew in popularity and remained in the repertory until 1817. Boursault's play was also influential in Italy and twice translated. It appeared from Bologna in 1719 under the title \"L'Esopo in Corte\", translated by Antonio Zaniboni, and as \"Le Favole di Esopa alla Corte\" from Venice in 1747, translated by Gasparo Gozzi. The same translator was responsible for a version of \"Esope à la ville\" (\"Esopo in città\", Venice, 1748); then in 1798 there was an anonymous Venetian three-act adaptation, \"Le Favole di Esopa, ossia Esopo in città\". In England the play was adapted under the title \"Aesop\" by John Vanbrugh and first performed at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in London in 1697, remaining popular for the next twenty years.\n\nIn the 20th century individual fables by Aesop began to be adapted to animated cartoons, most notably in France and the United States. Cartoonist Paul Terry began his own series, called \"Aesop's Film Fables\", in 1921 but by the time this was taken over by Van Beuren Studios in 1928 the story lines had little connection with any fable of Aesop's. In the early 1960s, animator Jay Ward created a television series of short cartoons called \"Aesop and Son\" which were first aired as part of \"The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show\". Actual fables were spoofed to result in a pun based on the original moral. Two fables are also featured in the 1971 TV movie \"Aesop's Fables\" in the US. Here Aesop is a black story teller who relates two turtle fables, The Tortoise and the Eagle and the Tortoise and the Hare to a couple of children who wander into an enchanted grove. The fables themselves are shown as cartoons.\n\nBetween 1989 and 1991, fifty Aesop-based fables were reinterpreted on French television as and later issued on DVD. These featured a cartoon in which the characters appeared as an assembly of animated geometric shapes, accompanied by Pierre Perret's slang versions of La Fontaine's original poem. In 1983 there was an extended manga version of the fables made in Japan, \"Isoppu monogatari\", and there has also been a Chinese television series for children based on the stories.\n\nThere have also been several dramatic productions for children based on elements of Aesop's life and including the telling of some fables, although most were written as purely local entertainments. Among these was Canadian writer Robertson Davies' \"A Masque of Aesop\" (1952), which was set at his trial in Delphi and allows the defendant to tell the fables \"The Belly and the Members\", \"The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse\" and \"The Cock and the Jewel\" while challenging prevailing social attitudes.\n\nWhile musical settings of La Fontaine's Fables began appearing in France within a few decades of their publication, it was not until the 19th century that composers began to take their inspiration directly from Aesop. One of the earliest was Charles Valentin Alkan's \"Le festin d'Ésope\" (\"Aesop's Feast\", 1857), a set of piano variations in which each variation is said to depict a different animal or scene from Aesop's fables. In England there was the anonymous \"A Selection of Aesop's Fables Versified and Set to Music with Symphonies and Accompaniments for the Piano Forte\", published in London in 1847. It was a large selection containing 28 versified fables. Mabel Wood Hill's \"Aesop's Fables Interpreted Through Music\" (New York 1920) was less ambitious, setting only seven prosaic texts.\n\nThere have also been song-settings, including Bob Chilcott's five \"Aesop's Fables\" (2008), and some works have been used to interest young people in music. Edward Hughes set his \"Songs from Aesop's fables\" for children's voices and piano (1965) while Arwel Hughes's similarly titled work is for unison voices. More recently, the American composer Robert J. Bradshaw (b.1970) dedicated his 3rd Symphony (2005) to the fables. A programme note explained that \"the purpose of this work is to excite young musicians and audiences to take an interest in art music\".\n\nWerner Egk's early settings in Germany were aimed at children too. His \"Der Löwe und die Maus\" (The Lion and the Mouse 1931) was a singspiel drama for small orchestra and children's choir; aimed at 12- to 14-year-olds, it was built on an improvisation by the composer's own children. He followed this with \"Der Fuchs und der Rabe \" (The Fox and the Crow) in 1932. 's \"Die Fabeln des Äsop\" (Op. 28, 1956) was set for accompanied men's chorus and uses Martin Luther's translation of six. Others who have set German texts for choir include (1963) and (1972).\n\nThe commonest approach in building a musical bridge to children has involved using a narrator with musical backing. Following the example of Sergei Prokoviev in \"Peter and the Wolf\" (1936), Vincent Persichetti set six for narrator and orchestra in his \"Fables\" (Op. 23 1943). Richard Maltz also composed his \"Aesop's Fables\" (1993) to introduce the instruments of the orchestra to elementary students and to teach them about the elements of music, and Daniel Dorff's widely performed \"3 Fun Fables\" (1996) has contrasting instruments interpreting characters: in \"The Fox and the Crow\" it is trumpet and contrabass; in \"The Dog and its Reflection\" it is trombone and violin, harp and percussion; in \"The Tortoise and the Hare\" it is contrabassoon and clarinet. Others simply adapt the narrator's voice to a musical backing. They include Scott Watson's \"Aesop's Fables\" and Anthony Plog's set of five for narrator, horn and piano (1989).\nWilliam Russo's approach to popularising his \"Aesop's Fables\" (1971) was to make of it a rock opera. This incorporates nine, each only introduced by the narrator before the music and characters take over. Instead of following the wording of one of the more standard fable collections, as other composers do, the performer speaks in character. Thus in \"The Crow and the Fox\" the bird introduces himself with, \"Ahm not as pretty as mah friends and I can’t sing so good, but, uh, I can steal food pretty goddam good!\" Other composers who have created operas for children have been Martin Kalmanoff in \"Aesop the fabulous fabulist\" (1969), David Ahlstom in his one-act \"Aesop's Fables\" (1986), and David Edgar Walther with his set of four \"short operatic dramas\", some of which were performed in 2009 and 2010. There have also been local ballet treatments of the fables for children in the USA by such companies as Berkshire Ballet and Nashville Ballet.\n\nAnother musical, \"Aesop's Fables\" by British playwright Peter Terson, first produced in 1983, was lifted into another class by Mark Dornford-May's adaptation for the Isango Portobello company at the Fugard Theatre in Cape Town, South Africa, in 2010. The play tells the story of the black slave Aesop, who learns that freedom is earned and kept through being responsible. His teachers are the animal characters he meets on his journeys. The fables they suggest include the Tortoise and the Hare, the Lion and the Goat, the Wolf and the Crane, the Frogs Who Desired a King and three others, brought to life through a musical score featuring mostly marimbas, vocals and percussion. Another colourful treatment was Brian Seward's \"Aesop's Fabulous Fables\" (2009) in Singapore, which mixes a typical musical with Chinese dramatic techniques.\n\nUse of other languages elsewhere in the world have included a setting of four Latin texts in the Czech composer Ilja Hurník's \"Ezop\" for mixed choir and orchestra (1964) and the setting of two as a Greek opera by Giorgos Sioras (b. 1952) in 1998. And in 2010 Lefteris Kordis launched his 'Aesop Project', a setting of seven fables which mixed traditional East Mediterranean and Western Classical musical textures, combined with elements of jazz. After an English recitation by male narrator, a female singer's rendition of the Greek wording was accompanied by an octet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11965978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11965978", "title": "Asmik-kun World 2", "text": "Asmik-kun World 2\n\nAsmik-kun World 2 (アスミッくん ワールド 2 \"Asumikkun Wārudo 2\") is a Game Boy video game by Asmik, copyrighted in 1991.Unlike its predecessor, \"Boomer's Adventure in ASMIK World\" (\"Teke! Teke! Asmik-kun World\"), this game was never released outside Japan. Like its predecessor, the game is an excellent example of the trap-em-up genre, which also includes games like \"Heiankyo Alien\" and \"Space Panic\".\n\nIn the game, Asmik-kun has to build a \"road\" from the entrance to the exit in each level. An enemy has come to kidnap the children on a certain world and the \"roads\" are intended for the children to be rescued and escorted safely back home.\n"}
{"id": "4959546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4959546", "title": "Barney's Version (novel)", "text": "Barney's Version (novel)\n\nBarney's Version is a novel written by Canadian author Mordecai Richler, published by Knopf Canada in 1997.\n\nThe story is written as if it is an autobiography by Barney Panofsky recounting his life in varying detail. Barney's version of events may be viewed as that of two unreliable narrators, in that his recollections are told from varying mental states and then posthumously edited by his son. Underlying the story of Barney's three marriages is the mysterious disappearance of his friend Boogie. Though there is no body, police suspect murder, and Barney himself is tried but acquitted of murder.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24707025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24707025", "title": "Bereavement (film)", "text": "Bereavement (film)\n\nMalevolence 2: Bereavement, is a 2010 American psychological thriller film starring Michael Biehn, Alexandra Daddario, John Savage and Nolan Gerard Funk. It is a prequel to director Steven Mena's previous film \"Malevolence\", and centers on a child who is abducted and forced to bear witness to a madman's crimes.\n\nMartin Bristol, a young boy with congenital analgesia, is kidnapped by psychotic Graham Sutter. At his farmhouse, Graham cuts Martin's cheek before butchering a captive young woman in front of him. Martin attempts to escape, but Graham catches him and returns him to the farmhouse, where he continues to hold the boy and future female victims captive.\n\nOver the next five years, Graham brutally butchers several young women, forcing Martin to watch as the trauma slowly desensitises him. Throughout the film, Graham talks and argues with the skull of a bull hung on the farmhouse wall, apparently seeing it and several others like it around the property as some kind of deity. It is strongly implied that Graham was abused as a child by his father and eventually murdered him, keeping his corpse concealed under a sheet in the attic.\n\nTeenager Allison Miller comes to live with her paternal uncle’s family, Wendy (her cousin), Jonathan (her uncle), and Karen Miller (her aunt) in Minnersville, the same town in which Graham commits his crimes. While out for a run, she sees Martin from the window of the supposedly abandoned slaughterhouse next to Graham’s farmhouse. When she is almost hit by a truck, she meets a local teenager, William, with whom she forms a relationship of sorts. One night, her uncle Jonathan intervenes as Allison and William are about to have sex.\n\nThe next day, Allison goes to the farmhouse after again seeing Martin in the slaughterhouse window and is captured by Graham. When she doesn't return home, Jonathan drives to the farmhouse, looking for her, but Graham shoots him dead. William drives by, sees Jonathan's abandoned car, becomes curious, investigates, and finds Allison locked inside a cold meat room. William attempts to save her but is immediately killed by Graham. Graham has become fearful of Martin, because of his inability to feel pain and angrily stabs him through the hand with a knife which Martin does not react to. Allison escapes pushing a metal rod through a hole in the door and lifting the lock mechanism. She finds Martin after his hand has been stabbed on to the kitchen table by Graham and removes it before carrying him out of the farmhouse.\n\nGraham takes Jonathan's body to his home, and attacks Karen, who tells Wendy to run. Wendy runs upstairs and hides in her closet, tearfully listening to her mother die. Allison arrives at the house, just as Graham has set it on fire. As Graham finds Wendy and decides to use her to replace Martin as his assistant, Allison interrupts and stabs Graham twice, before he flees. Allison attempts to call 911 but Martin stops her by stabbing her to death, his mind now completely twisted by years of Sutter’s abuse. He then goes upstairs and kills Wendy off-screen before leaving the burning house. Martin returns to the farmhouse and attacks the injured Graham with an axe. As Martin prepares to kill him, Graham says his finale words of thanks and pryde towards “his boy” and allows Martin to kill him. The next morning, the authorities arrive at the smoldering ruins of the miller house and rule it an “accident”.\n\nMartin begins to construct a new skeletal shrine in the farmhouse, with the bull's skull as the head. Martin then stares out the window, waiting for his next victim.\n\nIn a post-credit scene set five years later, a young girl named Courtney Harrison, flees from an unseen pursuer. She enters the farmhouse and discovers Martin, who is now an adult, sitting at a table. When she asks for help, Martin slowly turns around, as the film ends.\n\n\nDuring post-production, director Stevan Mena's initial cut of the film was three hours long. Things cut from the film included overtly gory scenes. The film is a prequel to \"Malevolence\", stating \"The only way to describe it is like an epic horror story. It's more in the vein of \"The Shining\", whereas the original was kind of like \"Halloween\" or \"Friday the 13th\". \"Bereavement\" is more of a character study\".\n\nThe film was shown at the Long Island International Film Expo on July 16, 2010. The film was released in theaters on March 4, 2011.\n\n\"Bereavement\" has received mixed to negative reviews from critics. The film currently holds a 44% \"rotten\" rating on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes with an average score of 4.9/10 based on 15 reviews. Dread Central's Steve Barton gave the film a 3 out of 5 stars and said, \"Fans of \"Malevolence\" will most likely eat this one up because it truly plays like one person's nightmarish descent into a world of total madness. It gives you a feel for who Martin Bristol is and why he's so lethal. On that level the film is a complete success. We just wish there was an equally as successful editor to go along with it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "34846127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34846127", "title": "BooClips", "text": "BooClips\n\nBooClips is a line of digital books for children on the iPad, Android, PC and Mac. Created by software company Castle Builders (IL), BooClips feature storylines and characters from movies, TV shows and the Bible. The company has partnered with several big entertainment companies in order to adapt their content to the BooClips format. These partnerships have assisted Castle Builders with garnering attention to their products.\n\nSince the release of their first BooClips in April 2011, the digital books have experienced a significant amount of notice. Within six days of the LazyTown's Dr. Rottenstein BooClips release on April 20, 2011, the app was listed as number one in the iTunes US App Store for Books, and as number two in the iTunes App Store overall. Since then Castle Builders has released several more BooClips, and is continuing to develop more.\n\nThe name \"BooClips\" derives from the two words \"books\" and \"clips.\" The idea for these digital books for children is to create a multimedia experience that engages children in reading. The BooClips interface resembles a book, offering synchronized narration of the text with highlighted words, and a guiding element for marking the place on the page. BooClips integrate many animations with touch capabilities to all for a variety of actions, including an animated page flip effect. At the end of every chapter is a movie clip in which readers can view video footage of the material they have just read.\n\nIn addition to these features, BooClips offer translation into many different languages and clarification of the text, and even American Sign Language interpretation. Other features include a 3D mode, an animated magnifying glass, an animated bookmark, and a voice-over function allowing parents to record themselves reading in synchronization with the text.\n\nBooClips are designed to be a form of \"edutainment,\" meaning that it utilizes entertaining content to help children learn how to read. BooClips aim to encourage children's individual abilities and self-reliance, expand their vocabulary, improve their reading comprehension level and skills, and develop their imagination, through the mediums of technology and entertainment.\n\nBooClips are primarily created and released out of partnerships Castle Builders forms with big entertainment companies to obtain content. On February 23, 2010, the company was picked up by worldwide merchandising and licensing agent 4Kids Entertainment. However, after 4Kids Entertainment filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on April 6, 2011, Castle Builders ended its relationship with them, and afterwards started signing other significant deals.\n\nIn October 2010 LazyTown entertainment announced a partnership with Castle Builders to produce eight digital books for children. The first two of this series, LazyTown's Dr. Rottenstein BooClip, and LazyTown's Sportafake BooClip, were released for the iPad in April 2011.\n\nThe company's next BooClips collaboration, announced on April 25, 2011, was with DreamWorks Animation on its movie, Kung Fu Panda 2. This partnership actually ended up being a cross-collaboration with House Foods, which was also promoting the film with its tofu products. From this cross-promotional strategy Castle Builders created the Kung Fu Panda 2 Interactive Cookbook as an addition to its BooClips line.\n\nThe Kung Fu Panda digital cookbook was released in May 2011, in the same time frame as the movie. The interactive cookbook received numerous reviews from both consumers and techies. In addition to that, the iPhone version of the app received attention from tech website CNET.\n\nOn September 12, 2011 Castle Builders announced its next BooClips collaboration with The Kids Bible Company LLC, and launched The Bible BooClips for the iPad. It released The Bible BooClips Creation and The Bible BooClips Cain and Abel, featuring stories from the Old Testament.\n\nThe following month, on October 6, 2011, came the release of Garfield's BooClips – Garfield's Pet Force for iPad, produced by Castle Builders in collaboration with Paws Incorporated, which based it on the Garfield's Pet Force movie that Paws, Inc. created with The Animation Picture Company and Davis Entertainment. The Garfield digital books contributed to the visibility of BooClips and Castle Builders, receiving many reviews, and particular attention from The Guardian UK news website.\n\nThe BooClips digital store was officially released on December 21, 2011. It had been its beta form on the BooClips website up until that point. The store splits up its BooClips offerings according to platform, with three categories for PC/Mac, Android, and iPad/iPhone. Accessed from a mobile device, it can sense what platform that device is using and point it towards the right BooClips.\n\nCastle Builders' most recent BooClips, the Hello Kitty Interactive Cookbook, was released in the iTunes Store on January 14, 2012. It has garnered a large amount of attention and reviews from people around the world. The company plans to further collaborate with Sanrio on two more Hello Kitty BooClips that will also be focused on cooking. This is the first Hello Kitty digital cookbook of the series, and is currently available only for PC, Mac, iPad and iPhone.\n\nApril 20, 2011 - LazyTown's Dr. Rottenstein BooClip and LazyTown's Sportafake BooClip are released for the iPad\n\nMay 2011 – Kung Fu Panda 2 Interactive Cookbook BooClips is released in cross-promotion with the Kung Fu Panda 2 movie and House Foods tofu snacks\n\nSeptember 12, 2011 – The Bible BooClips is launched, both The Bible BooClips Creation and The Bible BooClips Cain and Abel\n\nOctober 6, 2011 – Garfield's BooClips – Garfield's Pet Force for iPad is released for the iPad, Android, PC, Mac, Nook Color and iBookstore.\n\nDecember 21, 2011 – BooClips digital books store is officially released.\n\nJanuary 14, 2012 – The first Hello Kitty BooClips, Hello Kitty Interactive Cookbook, is released for iPad/iPhone, PC and Mac\n\nCastle Builders is a software company that develops digital apps for children. They create digital books for children as part of the worldwide \"Edutainment\" market, which aims to produce entertaining content with educational value for kids. The company was formed in 2006 by its CEO and software architect Gil Abramovich. The company is made up of artists, animators, designers and developers.\n\nCastle Builders creates using a software platform called the \"Computerized Storybook\" that the company developed itself. The platform grabs raw content from movies, music and written stories for children, and embeds it into a storybook interface. One of the main points about this platform is its quick integration with content, which can take as little as two days to complete. Castle Builders owns copyrights to the code and interface of the Computerized Storybook. In addition to that, as of early 2012, the name \"BooClips\" was officially trademarked and registered in the United States, and under the ownership of Castle Builders.\n"}
{"id": "2380969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2380969", "title": "Boxcars (slang)", "text": "Boxcars (slang)\n\nBoxcars, also known as Midnight, is the outcome of rolling the dice in a game of craps and getting a 6 on each die. The pair of 6 pips resembles a pair of boxcars on a freight train. In modern parlance, it refers to such a roll in any game involving 6 sided dice which are marked with pips. The probability of this roll is 1 in 36, or about 2.8%. This is the same probability as for rolling any other specific ordered pair with the dice.\n\nRolling two 6-sided dice 25 times gives a probability of 0.505532 that at least once, Boxcars will appear.\n\nOne of the 4 bets on any common craps table. It is on the 'high side' of the horn bet in which the player can either bet on the 2, 3, 11, or 12. When the player throws in money and calls out \"midnight\" or \"Boxcars\", the dealer will usually 'book' the bet as a bet on the 12, so as to not create confusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "55622644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55622644", "title": "British Academy Children's Awards 2017", "text": "British Academy Children's Awards 2017\n\nThe 2017 British Academy Children's Awards was held on November 26, 2017 at The Roundhouse in London, honoring children's television programmes broadcast between October 2016 and October 2017. It will be hosted by Doc Brown and CBBC have the most nominations.\n\nWinners are listed first, highlighted in boldface, and indicated with a double dagger ().\n"}
{"id": "888171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=888171", "title": "Capitonym", "text": "Capitonym\n\nA capitonym is a word that changes its meaning (and sometimes pronunciation) when it is capitalized; the capitalization usually applies due to one form being a proper noun or eponym. It is a portmanteau of the word \"capital\" with the suffix \"-onym\". A capitonym is a form of homograph and – when the two forms are pronounced differently – is also a form of heteronym. In situations where both words should be capitalized (such as the beginning of a sentence), there will be nothing to distinguish between them except the context in which they are used.\n\nAlthough some pairs, such as \"march\" and \"March\", are completely unrelated, in other cases, such as \"august\" and \"catholic\", the capitalized form is a name that is etymologically related to the uncapitalized form. For example, \"August\" derives from the name of Imperator Augustus, who named himself after the word \"augustus\", whence English \"august\" came. Likewise, both \"Catholic\" and \"catholic\" derive from a Greek adjective meaning \"universal\".\n\nCapital letters may be used to differentiate between a set of objects, and a particular example of that object. For instance in astronomical terminology a distinction may be drawn between a moon, any natural satellite, and the Moon, the natural satellite of Earth.\n\nA particular example of where capitonyms are prominent is in terminology relating to philosophy, religion, and politics. Capitalized words are often used to differentiate a philosophical concept from how the concept is referred to in everyday life, or to demonstrate respect for an entity or institution.\n\nIt is common practice to capitalize the pronouns referring to the Abrahamic God (He, Him, His, etc.) and many versions of the Bible, such as the NKJV, therefore do so. In this tradition, possessive pronouns are also capitalized if one is quoting God; \"My\" and \"Mine\" are capitalized, which should not be done when a human speaks. The pronouns \"You\", \"Your\", and \"Yours\" are also sometimes capitalized in reference to God.\n\nWords for transcendent ideas in the Platonic sense are often capitalized, especially when used in a religious context. Examples include \"Good\", \"Beauty\", \"Truth\" or \"the One\".\n\nThe word \"god\" is capitalized to \"God\" when referring to the single deity of monotheistic religions such as Christianity, Judaism, or Islam. Other distinctions made include \"church\" (meaning a building) and \"Church\" (meaning an organization or group of people), and the liturgical \"Mass\", versus the physical \"mass\".\n\nAs political parties are often named after philosophies, a capital letter is used to differentiate between a supporter of the philosophy, and a supporter of the party, for instance \"Liberal\", a supporter of any Liberal Party, and \"liberal\", a supporter of the philosophy of liberalism. Terms such as \"small-l liberal\" may be used to indicate the concept that an individual supports. Similar examples are conservative/Conservative, democrat/Democrat, libertarian/Libertarian, republican/Republican, socialist/Socialist, and a supporter of labour/Labour.\n\nThe following list includes only \"dictionary words\". Personal names (\"Mark\"/\"mark\"), place-names (\"China\"/\"china\"), company names (\"Fiat\"/\"fiat\"), names of publications (\"Time\"/\"time\") etc. are all excluded as too numerous to list. Adjectives distinct from placenames (e.g. \"Polish\"/\"polish\") are allowed. Pairs in which one word is simply a secondary meaning of the other – e.g. \"Masonry\" (secret society), which is in essence a peculiar use of the word \"masonry\" (wall building) – are omitted.\n\nThe following poem from Richard Lederer's \"The Word Circus\" is an example of the use of capitonyms:\n\nJob's Job\nIn August, an august patriarch\nWas reading an ad in Reading, Mass.\nLong-suffering Job secured a job\nTo polish piles of Polish brass.\n\nIn other languages there are more, or fewer, of these pairs depending on that language's capitalization rules. For example, in German, where all nouns are capitalized, there are many pairs such as \"Laut\" 'sound' ~ \"laut\" 'loud' or \"Morgen\" 'morning' ~ \"morgen\" 'tomorrow'. In contrast, in Italian, as well as Spanish, very few words (except proper names) are capitalized, so there are extremely few, if any, such pairs. An example in Spanish is \"Lima\" (city) ~ \"lima\" 'file (tool)' or 'lime (fruit)'. In Portuguese, an example is \"Peru\" (country) ~ \"peru\" 'turkey' (bird).\n"}
{"id": "6860623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6860623", "title": "Cinema of Estonia", "text": "Cinema of Estonia\n\nCinema in Estonia is the film industry of the Republic of Estonia. The motion pictures have won international awards and each year new Estonian films are seen at film festivals around the globe.\n\nThe first \"moving pictures\" were screened in Tallinn in 1896. The first movie theater was opened in 1908. First local documentary was made in 1908 with the production of a newsreel about Swedish King Gustav V’s visit to Tallinn.\n\nThe first Estonian documentary was created by Johannes Pääsuke in 1912 that was followed by a short film \"Karujaht Pärnumaal\" (Bear Hunt in Pärnumaa) in 1914. The first movie studio in Estonia, \"Estonia Film Tartus\" (The Tartu Studio of Estonia Film), was established by Johannes Pääsuke (1892–1918). Pääsuke produced documentaries, short films and pictures of Estonian nature for the Estonian National Museum. \"Karujaht Pärnumaal\" (Bear-Hunt in Pärnu County, 1914) was the first fictional short film made in Estonia. In total, eight films made by J. Pääsuke have survived and are stored at the Estonian Film Archives.\n\nThe first full-length feature film was made in 1924 \"Shadow of the Past\" directed by Konstantin Märska and produced by his \"Konstantin Märska Filmiproduktsioon\" (Konstantin Märska Film Production). Two feature films by Märska have survived: \"Vigased pruudid\" (1929) and \"Jüri Rumm\" (1929). \"Theodor Lutsu Filmiproduktsioon\" (the Film Production of Theodor Luts Studio) was established by Theodor Luts and his wife Aksella Luts, who produced documentaries and feature films. His \"Noored kotkad\" (Young Eagles) (1927) is generally regarded as the cornerstone of Estonian cinema. Luts was also responsible for directing the only Estonian sound feature made before Soviet era, an Estonian-Finnish co-production \"Päikese lapsed\" (1932). Luts moved to Finland to work as a cinematographer immediately after finishing the film, and never returned to Estonia. Smaller film production studios in Estonia included \"Siirius Film\" and \"K.Kalamees Tartu\".\n\nThe major film production company after the Great Depression hit Estonia during the 1930s was state subsidized the Estonian Culture Film () that produced mostly documentaries.\nIn late 1930s, Academy Award nominated Miliza Korjus best known for a role in \"The Great Waltz\" (1938), daughter of an Estonian lieutenant colonel in the Imperial Russian Army and later Chief of Staff to the War Minister of Estonia, had a successful career in Hollywood film industry\n\nThe first Estonian animated short film \"Kutsu-Juku seiklusi\" was made in 1931.\n\nDuring the first year of Soviet occupation (1940–1941) \"Eesti Kultuurfilm\" was taken over by the Communist Party and renamed \"Kinokroonika Eesti Stuudio\" (the Estonian Newsreel Studio). During the first decades of Soviet rule as Estonia became a part of USSR in 1944 after the end of World War II, filmmakers in Estonia were mostly coming from inner Soviet Union whose job was to create propaganda films that depicted the victory of socialism in a form of newsreels and documentaries.\n\nFormer Eesti Kultuurfilm was called \"Kinokroonika Tallinna Stuudio\" (The Tallinn Newsreel Studio) in 1942 during the German occupation in World War II and \"Tallinna Kinostuudio\" (The Tallinn Film Studio) in 1947 again by the Soviets.\n\nDuring the era two feature films on Soviet themes were produced in Estonia directed by Gerbert Rappaport, an Austrian émigré in Soviet Union: \"Elu tsitadellis (Life in the Citadel)\" in 1947, \"Valgus Koordis (Light in Koordi)\" in 1951 that was the first color motion picture film made in Estonia.\n\nAfter the death of Stalin in 1953 a more liberal period in Soviet Union's cultural policies followed. Filmmakers started to enjoy greater artistic control at the same time the Soviet State Committee for Cinematography (Goskino) in Moscow provided the money, state censorship body Glavlit and CPSU Department of Culture had the control over releasing the movies.\n\nThe Tallinn Film Studio was renamed \"Kunstiliste ja Kroonikafilmide Tallinna Kinostuudio\" (Tallinn Feature- and Newsreel Film Studio) in 1954 and in 1963 was renamed again Tallinnfilm \n\nSome of the first films produced during the era that were co directed by an Estonian Kaljo Kiisk were \"Juunikuu päevad\" (1957) and \"Vallatud kurvid\" also known as \"Opasniye Povoroty\", the first dramatic film shot in Kinopanorama (1959).\n\nIn the 1960s a story of Prince Gabriel by Estonian writer Eduard Bornhöhe was turned into a movie script by Arvo Valton. Grigori Kromanov was named to be the director of \"Viimne reliikvia\" (The Last Relic), released in 1969 by Tallinnfilm. The movie set the absolute box office record for the entire Soviet Union at the time by selling 44,9 million tickets. It was successfully distributed by the Soviet film export internationally in more than 60 countries. The film also influenced Estonian literature: 2 short stories listed for the Friedebert Tuglas award in 1970-75 included references to the Last Relic.\n\nAnother milestone in Estonian Cinema released in 1969 was Arvo Kruusement's \"\"Kevade\"\" (Spring) based on Oskar Luts popular novel.\n\nSuccessful films in the 1980s were \"\"Hukkunud Alpinisti\" hotell\" (Dead Mountaineer's Hotel) by Kromanov and movies made by Kaljo Kiisk such as \"Nipernaadi\" (1983).\n\nThe most prominent female director Leida Laius who emerged during the era is best known for her \"Kõrboja peremees\" (1979) and \"Naerata ometi\" (1985) receiving at the Berlin International Film Festival UNICEF Award in 1985. Peeter Simm's best known Soviet era film is \"Ideaalmaastik\" (The Ideal Landscape) released in 1980. Peeter Urbla's \"Ma pole turist, ma elan siin\" (I'm Not a Tourist, I'm Living Here) (1988). Jaan Kolgerg emerged by the end of Soviet era with films \"See kadunud tee\" (1990) (The Lost Way) and \"Võlausaldajad\" (Creditors) (1992)\n\nAmong the leading Estonian film actors during the Soviet era were Rein Aren with about 30 roles, Jüri Järvet and Leonhard Merzin.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union Estonia regained its independence, the cost of filmmaking skyrocketed and the 1990s showed decline in filmmaking that reached its bottom in 1996, the year when no fictional films and only 2 documentaries \"Lipule... güüsile... valvel!\" and \"Turvalisuse illusioon\" were made in Estonia.\n\nIn 1997, the Estonian Film Foundation was founded by the Estonian Ministry of Culture. Production of \"Minu Leninid\" (All My Lenins) (1997) a parody of Soviet Revolution by Hardi Volmer marked a turnaround for Estonian feature films. In 1998, there were two feature films produced. \"Georgica\" directed by Sulev Keedus won the \"FIPRESCI Prize\" at the Stockholm Film Festival in 1998 and the \"Prix Europa Special\" at Prix Europa in 1999.\n\nSince then, the trend has also been towards joint film productions such as Peeter Simm's \"Head käed\" (Good Hands) (2001) a joint Estonian-Latvian coproduction that in 2002 won the \"Manfred Salzgeber Award\" at the Berlin International Film Festival and the \"Golden Olive Tree\"\nLecce Festival of European Cinema in Italy. \"Kõrini\" (Fed Up) (2005) an Estonian-German coproduction. Arvo Iho' s \"Karu süda\" (Hart of the Bear) (2001) nominated for \"Golden St. George\" at the Moscow International Film Festival and for the \"European Film Award\" at European Film Awards, was a coproduction between Estonia, Germany, Russia and the Czech Republic.\n\nThe most commercially successful Estonian film in 2002 was \"Nimed marmortahvlil\" (2002) (Names in Marble) by Elmo Nüganen and in 2003 a comedy by Rando Pettai \"Vanad ja kobedad saavad jalad alla\" (Made in Estonia) that in Estonia topped the international blockbuster \"\" with its box office results.\n\nIn 2004, two young directors emerged Jaak Kilmi and René Reinumägi with their \"Sigade revolutsioon\"\n(Revolution of Pigs) that won the \"Special Jury Prize\" and was nominated for \"Golden St. George\" at the Moscow International Film Festival, and for \"Grand Prix Asturias\" at the Gijón International Film Festival.\n\nIn 2007, about 10 feature films were made in Estonia. Most notable perhaps \"Sügisball\" (2007) by Veiko Õunpuu receiving among other awards \"Best Director\" at the Thessaloniki Film Festival, International Film Festival Bratislava and \"Venice Horizons Award\" at the 64th Venice International Film Festival. \"Georg\" (2007) by Peeter Simm is a movie about the life of legendary Estonian singer Georg Ots.\n\nMost recent awarded film is Veiko Õunpuu's \"The Temptation of St. Tony\" (2009). In 2011, Estonia made eight full-length films, which included one animated film.\n\nThe Estonian feature films Top Ten Poll in 2002 by Estonian film critics and journalists\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50529846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50529846", "title": "Cinédia", "text": "Cinédia\n\nCinédia (originally called the Cinearte studios) was a Brazilian film studio established in 15 March 1930 in Rio de Janeiro, and remained in continual operation until 1951.\n\nBetween 1930 and 1945 Cinédia averaged two films a year, with a high of five in 1936.\n\nOne of the most important production companies of Brazilian film industry in the 1930s and 1940s, idealized by Adhemar Gonzaga, which produced popular dramas and musical comedies, known by the generic denomination \"chanchadas\".\n\nImporting the latest equipment and technology, such as Mitchell cameras, and the Movietone sound system, in the first Brazilian film with optical sound.\n\nHumberto Mauro produced the company's first film, \"Lábios Sem Beijos\", in 1930. In 1933, he directed, with Adhemar Gonzaga, \"A Voz do Carnaval\", in which singer Carmen Miranda made one of her first film appearances.\n\nIn musical comedies like \"Alô, Alô Brasil!\", \"Alô, Alô, Carnaval!\" and \"Onde estás, felicidade?\", actors like Oscarito, Grande Otelo and Dercy Gonçalves made their debut.\n\nCinédia's biggest success was \"O Ébrio\", in 1946, produced by Adhemar Gonzaga and directed by Gilda de Abreu.\n\nOther of the company's hits were \"Bonequinha de Seda\" in 1936, \"Estudantes\" in 1935, \"Ganga Bruta\" in 1933, and \"Limite\" in 1931.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1012630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1012630", "title": "Codename: Panzers", "text": "Codename: Panzers\n\nCodename: Panzers is a World War II video game created by Hungarian game developer StormRegion. It launched in 2004 to generally favorable reviews. The series entered its second iteration in July 2005 with \"Codename: Panzers Phase II\". A \"Codename: Panzers Phase III\" was originally planned, but no longer appears on the official website. It was followed by \"\". The first two games of the series don't work on 64-bit operating systems due to driver incompatibility of StarForce Protection, however the DRM-free versions available on GOG.com does not contain this issue. But the GOG version relies on VC Redist 2015, which has persistent issues on many computers. \"Codename: Panzers\" was intended to be a three-part series portrayal of various conflicts of the Second World War.\n\nThe current publishing rights of the franchise belong to THQ Nordic after they acquired the intellectual property rights from the defunct publisher, cdv Software Entertainment.\n\nLike \"\" and, to a lesser extent, \"Blitzkrieg\", \"Codename: Panzers\" focuses on managing groups of troops, tanks, armored vehicles, and artillery and destroying the enemy or capturing objectives. The game abstracts concepts such as supply, repair, and air support without doing away with them entirely, and belongs to the real-time tactics genre more than the traditional wargame/simulation genre.\n\nUnits gain experience throughout the single-player campaigns and can be bought/upgraded between missions and added to the player's personal 'army' that travels with him from scenario to scenario. Completing mission requirements and optional objectives gives the player 'Prestige' points, which can be accumulated to upgrade existing units or used to add new units to the player's core force. Additionally, many missions provide the player with extra units to complement their core army. Also, the player is most often responsible for keeping alive a single 'hero' unit.\n\nUnits include a variety of infantry, armor, and artillery used by each nations' armed forces in World War II. While the main focus of the game is in controlling tanks, artillery units provide long range fire while infantry units can be used to engage other infantry and garrison buildings for added defense. Damage is modeled on a health bar system, although vehicles have additional armor plating to weaken before taking damage. Players are also required to maintain their vehicles using ammo and repair trucks. In addition to regular units the player can control, the game provides players with indirect fire support. In missions, players can direct a limited number of precision dive bomber strikes, paratrooper drops, carpet bombing runs, reconnaissance planes and off-map artillery.\n\nThe first game (\"Phase I\") focused on three campaigns: German (led by Hans Von Gröbel), Soviet (led by Aleksander Efremovich Vladimirov), and Western Allied (led by Jeffrey S. \"The Buck\" Wilson and James \"The Gent\" Barnes). The German campaign begins with the Blitzkrieg of Poland, France and then the invasion of the USSR, with the final campaign mission at Stalingrad. The Soviet campaign begins with the turn at Stalingrad and ends with the Battle of Berlin and the capture of the Reichstag. The Western Allied campaign begins with Operation Overlord and the Normandy landings, and includes battles such as Operation Market Garden and the Battle of the Bulge. The game features realistic representations of tanks, artillery units, air forces, and infantry from Germany, the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain, France and Poland. It also features Yugoslav partisans fought in the German campaign when the player moves through a rebellious area of Nedić's Serbia.\n\nThe second game (\"Phase II\") focused on three campaigns: Axis (the same leader as in the first game with Dario DeAngelis, the Italian leader), Western Allied (the same leader as in the first game), and Yugoslavian Partisans (led by Farvan \"Vuk\" Pondurovik, sometimes misspelled as Fervan). The Axis campaign follows the Italian Dario de Angelis and the Afrika Corps through the North African Campaign to the First Battle of El Alamein. The Western Allied campaign begins at the Second Battle of El Alamein, and includes Operation Torch, the Battle for Tobruk, and the Battle of the Kasserine Pass, then finishes with the Allied campaign in Italy, including Anzio and the Battle of Monte Cassino. The Yugoslav partisan campaign focus on combat in the Balkans with Soviet assistance.\n\nThe following have performed voice work in \"Codename: Panzers - Phase I\":\n\n\n\"Codename: Panzers\" currently holds an 81% rating on the critic review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "35592602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35592602", "title": "Dakyu", "text": "Dakyu\n\nOriginally from China, dakyu was played in Japan as early as the Nara period. It remained popular amongst the aristocracy until the Kamakura period, when it gradually died out (the last recorded game being in 986).\n\nIn the eighteenth century the game reappeared, largely due to support from Tokugawa Yoshimune. By this time it had evolved from a polo-like game (using mallets) to something more akin to lacrosse. During this period, dakyu was considered a corollary to military training (training the skills needed to wield a spear from horseback). This aspect was downplayed in the Meiji era, when the game again lost favour; today, it survives only as a cultural asset.\n\nDakyu was played both on foot and on horseback, but the equestrian version was more popular among the aristocracy and was thus better documented. Rules vary, but two main forms survive to the present day. Both involve two teams of riders (designated by the colours red and white) attempting to project a number of balls into a goal. This goal, originally a hoop placed on the ground, is now more commonly a circular hole on a wall.\n\nIn Kagemiryu or Hachinohe style play, which dates from the eighteenth century, the teams are made up of four riders each. The players race to propel the 30 cm diameter balls of their colour into the four raised goals (two for each side), shooting from a preset distance of between 18 and 27 metres from the goal. A successful goal is signalled by percussion; drums for the white team, gongs for the red. The winning team is the first to get all of their balls into the goals.\n\nIn the Yamagata or Imperial style of play, shorter sticks (at only 1m, less than half the length of those used in the Hachinohe style) are used, and both teams shoot for a single goal. The ball is also smaller, being only a few centimetres in diameter. Five balls are used in Yamagata style games, and eleven in Imperial games. When one side has successfully got all of its balls into the goal, a final ball called the \"agemari\" is put into play - whichever team then scores with the agemari then wins the game. This aspect of play has drawn comparisons with the game of billiards.\n\n"}
{"id": "26397530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26397530", "title": "Danza Teatro", "text": "Danza Teatro\n\nDanza Teatro Retazos (literally \"bits and pieces\") is a Cuban dance company. Created in January 1987 by choreographer Isabel Bustos Romoleroux. Every April since 1996, Retazos sponsors the International Dance Festival in Urban Landscapes — Old Havana, City in Motion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5020940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5020940", "title": "Dragon Lore: The Legend Begins", "text": "Dragon Lore: The Legend Begins\n\nDragon Lore is a point-and-click adventure game released in 1994 by Cryo for MS-DOS CD-ROM, and later ported to the 3DO game console. The hero plays Werner Von Wallenrod, a farm boy who must interact with various characters in a fantasy atmosphere, solve puzzles, and fight enemies. Eventually the protagonist uncovers that he is the orphaned son of the late Axel von Wallenrod, a \"Dragon Knight.\" Werner sets out to uncover his past and reclaim his heritage. Werner's ultimate goal is to earn the favor of enough of the current Dragon Knights so as to be voted into their order. He also has to deal with his rival, Haggen Von Diakkonov.\n\n\nThe PC version had a relatively high conventional memory requirement which made the game difficult to run unless the user first edited the autoexec.bat and config.sys files and/or created a boot disk. The game was bundled with multimedia kits such as those by Reveal. At that time, many personal computers were not equipped with CD-ROMs and sound cards out of the box, and users wanting these features may have chosen their kit based on the pack-in software. The Reveal 4x CD-ROM kit featured the SC400 sound card, speakers, and a large bundle of multimedia software including games and educational titles. Besides Dragon Lore, this kit featured another Cryo Interactive game, MegaRace.\n\n\"Dragon Lore\" was a commercial success, with sales of 300,000 units by 1997.\n\nA reviewer for \"Next Generation\" applauded the game for its fast-moving rendered graphics, captivating plot, and gratifyingly difficult puzzles in its later sections. He added that the inclusion of fighting segments, in addition to being satisfying of themselves, serve to break up the monotony that puzzle adventure games sometimes suffer from.\n\n\"GamePro\"s brief review of the 3DO version stated, \"Smooth, rendered 3D animation and voice clips accompany the great mythological storyline to make up a well-rounded game. RPG fans will enjoy the attention to detail as well as the intuitive motions and menus ... slow access time is one of the few setbacks.\"\n"}
{"id": "17292717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17292717", "title": "Drifting (1923 film)", "text": "Drifting (1923 film)\n\nDrifting is a 1923 American silent drama film based on the play \"Drifting\", by John Colton and Daisy H. Andrews. The film was directed by Tod Browning and features Priscilla Dean, Wallace Beery and Anna May Wong. It was produced and distributed by Universal Pictures. Copies of the film exist in Moscow and in the George Eastman House Motion Picture Collection. In 2012 the National Film Preservation Foundation awarded a grant to preserve a print that has Czech language intertitles which were translated back into English.\n\nCassie Cook had played the opium selling game until fate and a bad shuffle compelled her to team up with her biggest rival, Jules Repin, and then the horror of the whole thing weighed down upon her and she determined to quit and leave China before it was too late. She had bought a lot of new gowns on credit, believing in Repin's promise that he had a big shipment of opium coming in which would give them both plenty of money. Now those gowns had to be paid for and Cassie's chum, Molly Morton, taken out of the country before a growing taste for opium got a final hold on her. So Cassie bet on a sure thing in the races and lost. \"But I'm going to get you out, Kid,\" she told Molly, and as a last resort she went back to the game. Up in Hang Chow, a trouble-infested village near the poppy fields, she tried to trace the shipment Repin expected. A white man was there — supposed to be opening an abandoned mine. It was her business to find out if he was a government inspector seeking the den of the dope dealers. She posed as a novelist, and he, believing in her, told her that he was there to fight the dope menace. Cassie felt like a cheat of the lowest order and she turned against her comrades, but they, by trickery, found out what she had learned from the mine superintendent. In a flash they set the little world ablaze with rebellion and the soul of Cassie Cook was cleansed in the fires of remorse as she battled for what she believed was the right cause, and out of it came a love that was clean and honorable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "331073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331073", "title": "Edward Gordon Craig", "text": "Edward Gordon Craig\n\nEdward Henry Gordon Craig (born Edward Godwin; 16 January 1872 – 29 July 1966), sometimes known as Gordon Craig, was an English modernist theatre practitioner; he worked as an actor, director and scenic designer, as well as developing an influential body of theoretical writings. Craig was the son of actress Dame Ellen Terry.\n\nThe Gordon Craig Theatre, built in Stevenage (the town of his birth), was named in his honour in 1975.\n\nThe illegitimate son of the architect Edward Godwin and the actress Ellen Terry, Craig was born Edward Godwin on 16 January 1872 in Railway Street, Stevenage, in Hertfordshire, England, and baptised at age 16 as Edward Henry Gordon. He took the surname Craig by deed poll at age 21.\n\nCraig spent much of his childhood backstage at the Lyceum Theatre, where his mother was the leading lady to actor Sir Henry Irving. Craig later wrote a vivid, book-length tribute to Irving. Craig's sister was Edith Craig.\n\nIn 1893 Craig married Helen Mary (May) Gibson, with whom he had five children: Philip Carlisle (born 1894), Rosemary Nell (born 1894), Henry Edward Robin (born 1895), John (born 1896) and Peter (born 1897).\n\nWith his lover, the violinist Elena Fortuna Meo (1879–1957) he had three children: Ellen Gordon (1903–1904), Ellen Gordon (\"Nelly\"; 1904–1975) and Edward Anthony Carrick (1905–1998; an art director of British films). With his lover, the dancer Isadora Duncan, he had a daughter, Deirdre Beatrice (1906–1913), who drowned at the age of seven with another of Duncan's children, Patrick Augustus, and their nanny. With his lover, the poet Dorothy Nevile Lees, he had a son, Davidino Lees (1916–2004), a noted Italian photojournalist. His granddaughter is the illustrator and author Helen Craig.\n\nCraig lived in straitened circumstances in France for much of his life and was interned by German Occupation forces in 1942. He died at Vence, France, in 1966, aged 94.\n\nCraig asserted that the director was \"the true artist of the theatre\" and, controversially, suggested viewing actors as no more important than marionettes. He designed and built elaborately symbolic sets; for instance, a set composed of his patented movable screens for the Moscow Art Theatre production of \"Hamlet\". He was also the editor and chief writer for the first international theatre magazine, \"The Mask\".\n\nHe worked as an actor in the company of Sir Henry Irving, but became more interested in art, learning to carve wood under the tutelage of James Pryde and William Nicholson. His acting career ended in 1897, when he went into theatrical design.\n\nCraig's first productions, Purcell's \"Dido and Aeneas\", Handel's \"Acis and Galatea\" (both inspired and conducted by his lifelong friend Martin Shaw, who founded the Purcell Operatic Society with him to produce them), and Ibsen's \"The Vikings at Helgeland,\" were produced in London. The production of \"Dido and Aeneas\" was a considerable success and highly influential in reviving interest in the music of Purcell, then so little known that three copies of \"The Times\" review were delivered to the theatre: one addressed to Mr Shaw, one to Mr Craig, and one to Mr Purcell. Craig concentrated on keeping his designs simple, so as to set-off the movements of the actors and of light, and introduced the idea of a \"unified stage picture\" that covered all the elements of design.\n\nAfter finding little financial success in Britain, Craig set out for Germany in 1904. While there, he wrote one of his most famous works, the essay \"The Art of the Theatre\" (later reprinted with the title \"On the Art of the Theatre\"). In 1908, Isadora Duncan introduced Craig to Konstantin Stanislavski, the founder of the Moscow Art Theatre, who invited him to direct their famous production of \"Hamlet\" with the company, which opened in December 1911. After settling in Italy, Craig created a school of theatrical design with support from Lord Howard de Walden, the Arena Goldoni in Florence. During World War I, he wrote a cycle of puppet plays, the \"Drama for Fools\" and published a little theatre magazine, \"The Marionnette\" (1918).\n\nCraig was considered extremely difficult to work with and ultimately refused to direct or design any project over which he did not have complete artistic control. This led to his withdrawal from practical theatre production. His later career is remarkable for how little he achieved after the age of forty, during a long period of over fifty years.\n\nHe received an OBE and in 1958 was made a Companion of Honour.\n\nCraig's idea of using neutral, mobile, non-representational screens as a staging device is probably his most famous scenographic concept. In 1910 Craig filed a patent which described in considerable technical detail a system of hinged and fixed flats that could be quickly arranged to cater for both internal and external scenes. He presented a set to William Butler Yeats for use at the Abbey Theatre in Ireland, who shared his symbolist aesthetic.\n\nCraig’s second innovation was in stage lighting. Doing away with traditional footlights, Craig lit the stage from above, placing lights in the ceiling of the theatre. Colour and light also became central to Craig’s stage conceptualizations.\n\nUnder the play of this light, the background becomes a deep shimmering blue, apparently almost translucent, upon which the green and purple make a harmony of great richness.\n\nThe third remarkable aspect of Craig’s experiments in theatrical form were his attempts to integrate design elements with his work with actors. His \"mise en scène\" sought to articulate the relationships in space between movement, sound, line, and colour. Craig promoted a theatre focused on the craft of the director – a theatre where action, words, colour and rhythm combine in dynamic dramatic form.\n\nAll of his life, Craig sought to capture \"pure emotion\" or \"arrested development\" in the plays on which he worked. Even during the years when he was not producing plays, Craig continued to make models, to conceive stage designs and to work on directorial plans that were never to reach performance. He believed that a director should approach a play with no preconceptions and he embraced this in his fading up from the minimum or blank canvas approach.\n\nAs an engraver and a classical artist, Craig found inspiration in puppets and masks. In his 1910 article \"A Note on Masks,\" Craig expounds the virtue of using masks as a mechanism for capturing the audience’s attention, imagination and soul. \"There is only one actor – nay one man who has the soul of the dramatic poet, and who has ever served as the true and loyal interpreter of the poet,\" he proclaimed, and \"this is the marionette.\"\n\n\"On the Art of the Theatre\" (1911) is written as a dialogue between a Playgoer and a Stage Director, who examine the problems of the nature of stage directing. Craig argues that it was not dramatists, but rather performers who made the first works of drama, using action, words, line, colour and rhythm. Craig goes on to contend that only the director who seeks to interpret drama truly, and commits to training in all aspects of dramatic art, can restore the \"Art of the Theatre.\" Maintaining that the director should seek a faithful interpretation of the text, Craig argues that audiences go to the theatre to see, rather than to hear, plays. The design elements may transcend reality and function as symbols, he thought, thereby communicating a deeper meaning, rather than simply reflecting the real world.\n\nOn 29 June 1908 the Polish theater director, playwright, and theoretician of drama Leon Schiller initiated a correspondence with Craig. Together with his letter Schiller sent Craig, in Florence, his essay, \"Dwa teatry\" (\"Two Theaters\"), translated into English by Madeline Meager. Craig responded immediately, accepting the essay for his magazine, \"The Mask\". This was the beginning of a productive collaboration between the two prominent theater directors, who introduced each other's theoretical writings to foreign readers.\n\nOne of the largest collections of Edward Gordon Craig's papers is held at the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin. The 32-box collection includes Craig's diaries, essays, reviews, notes, manuscripts, financial records, and correspondence. Over 130 personal photographs are present in the archive. The Ransom Center's art holdings including some of Craig's woodblocks from the Cranach Press \"Hamlet\" as well as proof prints made during production of the book. The center's library holds over 300 books from Craig's personal collection. In addition to the archive of Edward Gordon Craig, the Ransom Center holds important holdings relating to Craig's mother Ellen Terry, as well as the archive of his son Edward Carrick.\n\nCraig wrote the following books:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6476399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6476399", "title": "Game Description Language", "text": "Game Description Language\n\nGame Description Language, or GDL, is a language designed by Michael Genesereth as part of the General Game Playing Project at Stanford University, California. GDL describes the state of a game as a series of facts, and the game mechanics as logical rules.\n\nQuoted in an article in New Scientist, Genesereth pointed out that although Deep Blue is able to play chess at a grandmaster level, it is incapable of playing checkers at all because it is a specialized game player. Both chess and checkers can be described in GDL. This enables general game players to be built that can play both of these games and any other game that can be described using GDL.\n\nGDL is a variant of Datalog, and the syntax is largely the same. It is usually given in prefix notation. Variables begin with \"codice_1\".\n\nThe following is the list of keywords in GDL, along with brief descriptions of their functions:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA game description in GDL provides complete rules for each of the following elements of a game.\n\nFacts that define the roles in a game. The following example is from a GDL description of the two-player game Tic-tac-toe:\nRules that entail all facts about the initial game state. An example is:\nRules that describe each move by the conditions on the current position under which it can be taken by a player. An example is:\nRules that describe all facts about the next state relative to the current state and the moves taken by the players. An example is:\nRules that describe the conditions under which the current state is a terminal one. An example is:\nThe goal values for each player in a terminal state. An example is:\nWith GDL one can describe finite games with an arbitrary numbers of players. However, GDL can not describe games which contain an element of chance (for example, rolling of dice) or games where players have incomplete information about the current state of the game (for example, in many card games the opponents' cards are not visible). GDL-II, the Game Description Language for Incomplete Information games, extends GDL by two keywords that allow for the description of elements of chance and incomplete information:\n\n\n\nThe following is an example from a GDL-II description of the card game Texas hold 'em:\n\n"}
{"id": "49059417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49059417", "title": "Gender and webcomics", "text": "Gender and webcomics\n\nIn contrast with mainstream American comics, webcomics are primarily written and drawn by women and gender variant people. Because of the self-published nature of webcomics, the internet has become a successful platform for social commentary, as well as lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) expression.\n\nA 2015 study by David Harper concluded that webcomics were vastly more popular format to female, transgender, and non-binary comic artists than for men. More than 40% of the women, transgender, and non-binary comic artists reported to work primarily in webcomics in this study, while only 15% of men did. Harper suggested that this may be because the self-published nature of webcomics form a lower barrier to entry, while traditional mediums such as comic books are gatekept by cisgender men, though he also suggested that this disparity may just be a difference in interest between the groups.\n\nAccording to a study by Erik Melander in 2005, at least 25% of webcomic creators were female. This percentage was significantly larger than the number of successful women creating print comics at the time, and the number may have been even higher, as a certain percentage of contributors were unknown. In 2015, 63% of the top 30 comic creators on webcomic conglomerate Tapastic were female. In 2016, 42% of the webcomic creators on Line Webtoon were female, as was 50% of its 6 million active daily readers.\n\n\"Girls with Slingshots\" creator Danielle Corsetto stated that webcomics are probably a female dominated field because there is no need to go through an established publisher. Noelle Stevenson, creator of \"Nimona\" and \"Lumberjanes\", noticed that webcomics predominantly feature female protagonists, possibly to \"balance out\" the content of mainstream media. Corsetto noted that she has never encountered sexism during her career, though Stevenson described some negative experiences with Reddit and 4Chan, websites outside of her usual channels.\n\nOliver Sava of \"The A.V. Club\" pointed out in 2016 that there exists a growing community of black women cartoonists creating webcomics.\n\nIn India, where rape of women has been a big issue in the 2010s, Indian webcomics formed a platform for artists to poke fun at patriarchy, feminism, and various other gender-related topics. According to human rights activist and webcomic creator Rachita Taneja, humor aids in communicating complex subjects to large groups of people, and the inclusiveness of webcomics makes it an excellent medium for said communication.\n\nGirlamatic was a subscriber-based webcomic site founded by Joey Manley in 2003. The website's purpose was to syndicate webcomics created primarily by women and marketed primarily to women. Girlamatic included webcomics created by various well-known female webcomic artists, including Shaenon Garrity and Lea Hernandez. The syndicate had won various Lulu awards for being among the \"most women-friendly and reader- friendly work in comics.\" Writing for \"Comixpedia\", Eric Burns voiced his worries that initiatives like Girlamatic section off and divide the webcomic community, making it \"less\" likely for male readers to come across the works of female webcartoonists.\n\nThere exist a large amount of openly gay and lesbian comic creators that self-publish their work on the internet. These include amateur works, as well as more \"mainstream\" works, such as \"Kyle's Bed & Breakfast\". According to Andrew Wheeler from \"Comics Alliance\", webcomics \"provide a platform to so many queer voices that might otherwise go undiscovered,\" and Tash Wolfe of \"The Mary Sue\" has a similar outlook on transgender artists and themes.\n\n"}
{"id": "33384146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33384146", "title": "Gong'an fiction", "text": "Gong'an fiction\n\nGong'an or crime-case fiction () is a subgenre of Chinese crime fiction involving government magistrates who solve criminal cases. Gong'an fiction was first appeared in the colloquial stories of Song dynasty. Gong'an fiction was then developed and become one of the most popular fiction styles in Ming and Qing dynasties. The Judge Dee and Judge Bao stories are the best known examples of the genre.\n\nThere are no surviving works of Song \"gong'an\", a genre of Song Dynasty puppetry and oral performances. Judge Bao stories based on the career of Bao Zheng, a common protagonist of \"gong'an\" fiction, first appeared during the Yuan Dynasty. Bao was a historical figure who worked for Emperor Renzong of Song as a magistrate. Accounts of his life were recorded in historical documents that later inspired the mythological Judge Bao of \"gong'an\" fiction.\n\nThe \"Circle of Chalk\" (Chinese:灰闌記) is a Yuan \"zaju\" play that recounts a Judge Bao criminal case. The popularity of Judge Bao performances contributed to the success of written \"gong'an\" novels published in the 16th and 17th centuries. The oldest collection of Judge Bao stories is the \"Bao Longtu Baijia Gong'an\", the \"Hundred Cases of Judge Bao\", also included in the Ming Dynasty \"Bao Gong An\" (Chinese:包公案).\n\nThe popularity of \"gong'an\" novels diminished in the early years of the Qing Dynasty. It was not until the latter years of the dynasty that the genre experienced a resurgence. During this period of time, Gong'an novels were politicized as a tool of shaping public opinions towards the government. \n“Wuxia” heroes, also known as martial heroes, rather than acting according to their own code of justice, would often swear loyalty and work in assistance to a government official figure- the initiative of justice derives from the government's actions, not the heroes'. Thematically, the \"gong'an\" works of the Qing Dynasty mixed elements of traditional \"gong'an\" fiction with the \"wuxia\" martial arts genre. Qing Judge Bao stories were widespread in every medium, from operas to folk performances and novels. Other magistrates like Judge Peng and Judge Li were also the subject of \"gong'an\" works. \"Shi Gong'an\", \"Judge Shi's Cases\", was published in 1798.\n\nIn the 1940, \"Di Gong An\" (Chinese:狄公案), an 18th-century collection of \"gong'an\" stories, was discovered at a second-hand book store in Tokyo, Japan and translated into English as the \"Celebrated Cases of Judge Dee\" by Dutch sinologist Robert Van Gulik in 1949. Van Gulik chose \"Di Gong An\" to translate because it was in his view closer to the Western tradition of detective fiction and more likely to appeal to non-Chinese readers. He used the style and characters to write a long running series of Judge Dee books that introduced the \"gong'an\" genre to Western audiences as the \"Sherlock Holmes of China\". The hybrid \"gong'an\" and \"wuxia\" stories of the Qing Dynasty remain popular in contemporary China. \"Wuxia\" writer Jin Yong's novels portray more elaborate martial arts and weapons than that of earlier \"gong'an\" works.\n\nThe term \"gong'an\" originally referred to the table, desk, or bench of a Chinese magistrate. It was later used as a name for unusual legal cases. \"Gong'an\" as a genre of fiction has been translated into English as \"court-case\" fiction or \"crime-case\" fiction. It is noteworthy that the above etymological development is similar to that of \"case\" in English - a word which originally described the physical depository where documents of a particular criminal investigation were kept, and later came to refer to the investigation itself.\n\nThe protagonist of \"gong'an\" novels is typically a traditional judge or similar official based on historical personages such as Judge Bao (Bao Qingtian) or Judge Dee (Di Renjie). Although the historical characters may have lived in an earlier period (such as the Song or Tang dynasty) most stories are written in the latter Ming or Qing period.\n\nGong'an novels are characterized by a number of distinct plot elements from other subgenres. The \"detective\" is the local magistrate who is usually involved in several unrelated cases simultaneously, while the criminal is introduced at the very start of the story and his crime and reasons are carefully explained, thus constituting an inverted detective story rather than a \"puzzle\". \"Gong'an\" stories often have a supernatural element with ghosts contacting the living or even accusing the criminal. The plot can digress into philosophy or a series of official documents. The story may feature a large cast of characters, typically in the hundreds.\n\nThe Gong'an fiction is a collection of seemingly unrelated short stories, however, they are connected based on their common tropes or crime-related conventions. These stories are usually represented by iconic figures, clothing, and characters. For example: Officials, Yamen Underling, and commoners all wear unique clothing. The depiction of these stories are typically presented to an audience, yet, if the stories are written down, illustrations are used. The stories are generally told by the working Magistrate, and involve a number of interrelated crimes occurring early in the story. Although, the stories have a common theme of social justice through punishment; the crimes are generally not didactic. In other words, they are crimes committed against other individuals (murder and rape are common examples) rather than society. The crimes are specific breaches in the law, and punishments are generally also pre-prescribed by law. Although the magistrate may have some supernatural knowledge aiding him in solving the case, he must always establish the facts of the case and prove the criminal guilty.\n\nGong'an fiction is very frequently accompanied by illustrations, such as Van Gulik's personal illustration to his Judge Dee novels. A re-occurring theme is the imitation of pictures. This repetition ensures readers have a common understanding of what each illustration represents.\n\nThis convention holds for pre-Ming full-page illustrations as well as shangtu xiawen illustrations. Thus many early sutras feature the Buddha seated on a lotus flower, facing three-quarters left, expounding doctrine or, more likely, the text of the accompanying sutra, while his disciples sit facing him, often with their backs to the reader. Likewise, if the illustration depicts action (many of them have a strong narrative element), the action tends to move from right to left. This is clearly seen in one of Zheng Zhenduo's illustrations, wherein the act of butchering animals is dramatically shown to lead straight to the gates of hell at left by means of a cloud-like cartouche.\n\nThere are multiple differences between Chinese gong'an fiction and western detective fiction. While western detective fiction focuses very much on realism, Chinese gong'an fiction stories may involve supernatural elements such as ghosts or spirits narrating their death, accusing the criminal, or aiding in the delivery of justice. The criminal being introduced at the beginning of the story is characteristic of gong'an fiction. His crime and reasoning are then explained in detail, therefore constituting an inverted detective story. Furthermore, the stories are filled with periodic breaks from the crime story and divert into philosophical lessons and moral practices that are emphasized in more complexed books. These stories contain a large amount of characters which are introduced in terms of their relations to the main characters. Moreover, the main characters are often modelled after popular characters from western stories. For example, \"Di Gong An\" is chosen by Robert van Gulik for its similarities to Western Detective fiction with the consideration that the western readers will have an easier time to comprehend the stories.\n\nBased on traditional gong'an fiction works such as \"Di Gong An\" and \"Justice Bao\", many television dramas has been derived to portray the stories with a modern touch. Some notable examples are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17665405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17665405", "title": "Harrowing of Hell (drama)", "text": "Harrowing of Hell (drama)\n\nThe Harrowing of Hell is an eighth-century Latin piece in fifty-five lines found in the Anglo-Saxon \"Book of Cerne\" (folios 98v–99v). It is probably a Northumbrian piece, written in prose and verse, where the former serves either as a set of stage directions for a dramatic portrayal or as a series of narrations for explaining the poetry.\n\nThree voices appear in the work: those of Adam, Eve, and a narrator. The prose of the \"narrator\" appears in the \"Book of Cerne\" in red ink setting it off from the rest of the text. The prose portions are rhythmic and may therefore have been sung, even if they were primarily directorial. Besides the three main soloists, the piece was designed for a full choir (\"antiqui iusti\"). The piece may be either an early oratorio or the earliest surviving piece of Christian drama intended to be performed.\n\nThe \"Harrowing of Hell\" has two sources: a lost Latin homily, which survives in translation as the seventh of the Old English \"Blickling Homilies\", and a Roman psalter also in the \"Book of Cerne\". David Dumville (1972) provides a critical edition of the Latin text and Dronke (1994) provides some English translation.\n\nThe fifty-five lines recount how Jesus Christ descended into hell to release the \"prisoners\", the just who were held by Satan. In typical medieval representations of this event, Adam and Eve are released immediately, but in the \"Harrowing of Hell\" they must wait and beg before they too are finally saved. The plea of Eve goes as follows:\n\nThe piece ends abruptly here, the rest apparently being lost, but if a comparable Old English piece is any indication, Eve's plea is successful.\n"}
{"id": "908507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=908507", "title": "Hero's journey", "text": "Hero's journey\n\nIn narratology and comparative mythology, the monomyth, or the hero's journey, is the common template of a broad category of tales that involve a hero who goes on an adventure, and in a decisive crisis wins a victory, and then comes home changed or transformed.\n\nThe study of hero myth narratives started in 1871 with anthropologist Edward Burnett Tylor's observations of common patterns in plots of heroes' journeys. Later on, others introduced various theories on hero myth narratives such as Otto Rank and his Freudian psychoanalytic approach to myth, Lord Raglan's unification of myth and rituals, and eventually hero myth pattern studies were popularized by Joseph Campbell, who was influenced by Carl Jung's view of myth. In his 1949 work \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\", Campbell described the basic narrative pattern as follows:\nCampbell and other scholars, such as Erich Neumann, describe narratives of Gautama Buddha, Moses, and Christ in terms of the monomyth. While others, such as Otto Rank and Lord Raglan, describe hero narrative patterns in terms of Freudian psychoanalysis and ritualistic senses. Critics argue that the concept is too broad or general to be of much usefulness in comparative mythology. Others say that the hero's journey is only a part of the monomyth; the other part is a sort of different form, or color, of the hero's journey.\n\nCampbell borrowed the word \"monomyth\" from Joyce's \"Finnegans Wake\" (1939). Campbell was a notable scholar of James Joyce's work and in \"A Skeleton Key to Finnegans Wake\" (1944) co-authored the seminal analysis of Joyce's final novel.\nCampbell's singular \"the\" monomyth implies that the \"hero's journey\" is the ultimate narrative archetype, but the term \"monomyth\" has occasionally been used more generally, as a term for a mythological archetype or a supposed mytheme that re-occurs throughout the world's cultures.\nOmry Ronen referred to Vyacheslav Ivanov's treatment of Dionysus as an \"avatar of Christ\" (1904) as \n\"Ivanov's monomyth\".\n\nThe phrase \"the hero's journey\", used in reference to Campbell's monomyth, first entered into popular discourse through two documentaries. The first, released in 1987, \"The Hero's Journey: The World of Joseph Campbell,\" was accompanied by a 1990 companion book, \"The Hero's Journey: Joseph Campbell on His Life and Work\" (with Phil Cousineau and Stuart Brown, eds.). \nThe second was Bill Moyers's series of seminal interviews with Campbell, released in 1988 as the documentary (and companion book) \"The Power of Myth\". Cousineau in the introduction to the revised edition of \"The Hero's Journey\" wrote \"the monomyth is in effect a \"metamyth\", a philosophical reading of the unity of mankind's \"spiritual\" history, the Story behind the story\".\n\nCampbell describes 17 stages of the monomyth. Not all monomyths necessarily contain all 17 stages explicitly; some myths may focus on only one of the stages, while others may deal with the stages in a somewhat different order. In the terminology of Claude Lévi-Strauss, the stages are the individual mythemes which are \"bundled\" or assembled into the structure of the monomyth.\n\nThe 17 stages may be organized in a number of ways, including division into three \"acts\" or sections:\n\nIn the \"departure\" part of the narrative, the hero or protagonist lives in the ordinary world and receives a call to go on an adventure. The hero is reluctant to follow the call, but is helped by a mentor figure.\n\nThe \"initiation\" section begins with the hero then traversing the threshold to the unknown or \"special world\", where he faces tasks or trials, either alone or with the assistance of helpers.\n\nThe hero eventually reaches \"the innermost cave\" or the central crisis of his adventure, where he must undergo \"the ordeal\" where he overcomes the main obstacle or enemy, undergoing \"apotheosis\" and gaining his reward (a treasure or \"elixir\").\n\nThe hero must then return to the ordinary world with his reward. He may be pursued by the guardians of the special world, or he may be reluctant to return, and may be rescued or forced to return by intervention from the outside.\n\nIn the \"return\" section, the hero again traverses the threshold between the worlds, returning to the ordinary world with the treasure or elixir he gained, which he may now use for the benefit of his fellow man. The hero himself is transformed by the adventure and gains wisdom or spiritual power over both worlds.\n\nCampbell's approach has been very widely received in narratology, mythography and psychotherapy, especially since the 1980s, and a number of variant summaries of the basic structure have been published. The general structure of Campbell's exposition has been noted before and described in similar terms in comparative mythology of the 19th and early 20th century, notably by Russian folklorist Vladimir Propp who divided the structure of Russian folk tales into 31 \"functions\".\n\nThe following is a more detailed account of Campbell's original 1949 exposition of the monomyth in 17 stages.\n\nThe hero begins in a situation of normality from which some information is received that acts as a call to head off into the unknown.\n\nCampbell: \"...(the call of adventure is to) a forest, a kingdom underground, beneath the waves, or above the sky, a secret island, lofty mountaintop, or profound dream state; but it is always a place of strangely fluid and polymorphous beings, unimaginable torments, super human deeds, and impossible delight. The hero can go forth of his own volition to accomplish the adventure, as did Theseus when he arrived in his father's city, Athens, and heard the horrible history of the Minotaur; or he may be carried or sent abroad by some benign or malignant agent as was Odysseus, driven about the Mediterranean by the winds of the angered god, Poseidon. The adventure may begin as a mere blunder... or still again, one may be only casually strolling when some passing phenomenon catches the wandering eye and lures one away from the frequented paths of man. Examples might be multiplied, ad infinitum, from every corner of the world.\"\n\nOften when the call is given, the future hero first refuses to heed it. This may be from a sense of duty or obligation, fear, insecurity, a sense of inadequacy, or any of a range of reasons that work to hold the person in his current circumstances.\n\nCampbell: \"Refusal of the summons converts the adventure into its negative. Walled in boredom, hard work, or 'culture,' the subject loses the power of significant affirmative action and becomes a victim to be saved. His flowering world becomes a wasteland of dry stones and his life feels meaningless—even though, like King Minos, he may through titanic effort succeed in building an empire or renown. Whatever house he builds, it will be a house of death: a labyrinth of cyclopean walls to hide from him his minotaur. All he can do is create new problems for himself and await the gradual approach of his disintegration.\"\n\nOnce the hero has committed to the quest, consciously or unconsciously, his guide and magical helper appears or becomes known. More often than not, this supernatural mentor will present the hero with one or more talismans or artifacts that will aid him later in his quest. Meeting the person that can help them in their journey.\n\nCampbell: \"For those who have not refused the call, the first encounter of the hero journey is with a protective figure (often a little old crone or old man) who provides the adventurer with amulets against the dragon forces he is about to pass. What such a figure represents is the benign, protecting power of destiny. The fantasy is a reassurance—promise that the peace of Paradise, which was known first within the mother womb, is not to be lost; that it supports the present and stands in the future as well as in the past (is omega as well as alpha); that though omnipotence may seem to be endangered by the threshold passages and life awakenings, protective power is always and ever present within or just behind the unfamiliar features of the world. One has only to know and trust, and the ageless guardians will appear. Having responded to his own call, and continuing to follow courageously as the consequences unfold, the hero finds all the forces of the unconscious at his side. Mother Nature herself supports the mighty task. And in so far as the hero's act coincides with that for which his society is ready, he seems to ride on the great rhythm of the historical process.\"\n\nThis is the point where the hero actually crosses into the field of adventure, leaving the known limits of his world and venturing into an unknown and dangerous realm where the rules and limits are unknown.\n\nCampbell: \"With the personifications of his destiny to guide and aid him, the hero goes forward in his adventure until he comes to the 'threshold guardian' at the entrance to the zone of magnified power. Such custodians bound the world in four directions—also up and down—standing for the limits of the hero's present sphere, or life horizon. Beyond them is darkness, the unknown and danger; just as beyond the parental watch is danger to the infant and beyond the protection of his society danger to the members of the tribe. The usual person is more than content, he is even proud, to remain within the indicated bounds, and popular belief gives him every reason to fear so much as the first step into the unexplored. The adventure is always and everywhere a passage beyond the veil of the known into the unknown; the powers that watch at the boundary are dangerous; to deal with them is risky; yet for anyone with competence and courage the danger fades.\"\n\nThe belly of the whale represents the final separation from the hero's known world and self. By entering this stage, the person shows willingness to undergo a metamorphosis. When first entering the stage the hero may encounter a minor danger or set back.\n\nCampbell: \"The idea that the passage of the magical threshold is a transit into a sphere of rebirth is symbolized in the worldwide womb image of the belly of the whale. The hero, instead of conquering or conciliating the power of the threshold, is swallowed into the unknown and would appear to have died. This popular motif gives emphasis to the lesson that the passage of the threshold is a form of self-annihilation. Instead of passing outward, beyond the confines of the visible world, the hero goes inward, to be born again. The disappearance corresponds to the passing of a worshipper into a temple—where he is to be quickened by the recollection of who and what he is, namely dust and ashes unless immortal. The temple interior, the belly of the whale, and the heavenly land beyond, above, and below the confines of the world, are one and the same. That is why the approaches and entrances to temples are flanked and defended by colossal gargoyles: dragons, lions, devil-slayers with drawn swords, resentful dwarfs, winged bulls. The devotee at the moment of entry into a temple undergoes a metamorphosis. Once inside he may be said to have died to time and returned to the World Womb, the World Navel, the Earthly Paradise. Allegorically, then, the passage into a temple and the hero-dive through the jaws of the whale are identical adventures, both denoting in picture language, the life-centering, life-renewing act.\"\n\nThe road of trials is a series of tests that the hero must undergo to begin the transformation. Often the hero fails one or more of these tests, which often occur in threes. Eventually the hero will overcome these trials and move on to the next step.\n\nCampbell: \"Once having traversed the threshold, the hero moves in a dream landscape of curiously fluid, ambiguous forms, where he must survive a succession of trials. This is a favorite phase of the myth-adventure. It has produced a world literature of miraculous tests and ordeals. The hero is covertly aided by the advice, amulets, and secret agents of the supernatural helper whom he met before his entrance into this region. Or it may be that he here discovers for the first time that there is a benign power everywhere supporting him in his superhuman passage. The original departure into the land of trials represented only the beginning of the long and really perilous path of initiatory conquests and moments of illumination. Dragons have now to be slain and surprising barriers passed—again, again, and again. Meanwhile there will be a multitude of preliminary victories, unsustainable ecstasies and momentary glimpses of the wonderful land.\"\n\nThis is where the hero gains items given to him that will help him in the future.\n\nCampbell: \"The ultimate adventure, when all the barriers and ogres have been overcome, is commonly represented as a mystical marriage of the triumphant hero-soul with the Queen Goddess of the World. This is the crisis at the nadir, the zenith, or at the uttermost edge of the earth, at the central point of the cosmos, in the tabernacle of the temple, or within the darkness of the deepest chamber of the heart. The meeting with the goddess (who is incarnate in every woman) is the final test of the talent of the hero to win the boon of love (charity: amor fati), which is life itself enjoyed as the encasement of eternity. And when the adventurer, in this context, is not a youth but a maid, she is the one who, by her qualities, her beauty, or her yearning, is fit to become the consort of an immortal. Then the heavenly husband descends to her and conducts her to his bed—whether she will or not. And if she has shunned him, the scales fall from her eyes; if she has sought him, her desire finds its peace.\"\n\nIn this step, the hero faces those temptations, often of a physical or pleasurable nature, that may lead him to abandon or stray from his quest, which does not necessarily have to be represented by a woman. Woman is a metaphor for the physical or material temptations of life, since the hero-knight was often tempted by lust from his spiritual journey.\n\nCampbell: \"The crux of the curious difficulty lies in the fact that our conscious views of what life ought to be seldom correspond to what life really is. Generally we refuse to admit within ourselves, or within our friends, the fullness of that pushing, self-protective, malodorous, carnivorous, lecherous fever which is the very nature of the organic cell. Rather, we tend to perfume, whitewash, and reinterpret; meanwhile imagining that all the flies in the ointment, all the hairs in the soup, are the faults of some unpleasant someone else. But when it suddenly dawns on us, or is forced to our attention that everything we think or do is necessarily tainted with the odor of the flesh, then, not uncommonly, there is experienced a moment of revulsion: life, the acts of life, the organs of life, woman in particular as the great symbol of life, become intolerable to the pure, the pure, pure soul. The seeker of the life beyond life must press beyond (the woman), surpass the temptations of her call, and soar to the immaculate ether beyond.\"\n\nIn this step the hero must confront and be initiated by whatever holds the ultimate power in his life. In many myths and stories this is the father, or a father figure who has life and death power. This is the center point of the journey. All the previous steps have been moving into this place, all that follow will move out from it. Although this step is most frequently symbolized by an encounter with a male entity, it does not have to be a male; just someone or thing with incredible power. \n\nCampbell: \"Atonement consists in no more than the abandonment of that self-generated double monster—the dragon thought to be God (superego) and the dragon thought to be Sin (repressed id). But this requires an abandonment of the attachment to ego itself, and that is what is difficult. One must have a faith that the father is merciful, and then a reliance on that mercy. Therewith, the center of belief is transferred outside of the bedeviling god's tight scaly ring, and the dreadful ogres dissolve. It is in this ordeal that the hero may derive hope and assurance from the helpful female figure, by whose magic (pollen charms or power of intercession) he is protected through all the frightening experiences of the father's ego-shattering initiation. For if it is impossible to trust the terrifying father-face, then one's faith must be centered elsewhere (Spider Woman, Blessed Mother); and with that reliance for support, one endures the crisis—only to find, in the end, that the father and mother reflect each other, and are in essence the same. The problem of the hero going to meet the father is to open his soul beyond terror to such a degree that he will be ripe to understand how the sickening and insane tragedies of this vast and ruthless cosmos are completely validated in the majesty of Being. The hero transcends life with its peculiar blind spot and for a moment rises to a glimpse of the source. He beholds the face of the father, understands—and the two are atoned.\" \n\nThis is the point of realization in which a greater understanding is achieved. Armed with this new knowledge and perception, the hero is resolved and ready for the more difficult part of the adventure.\n\nCampbell: \"Those who know, not only that the Everlasting lies in them, but that what they, and all things, really are is the Everlasting, dwell in the groves of the wish fulfilling trees, drink the brew of immortality, and listen everywhere to the unheard music of eternal concord.\"\n\nThe ultimate boon is the achievement of the goal of the quest. It is what the hero went on the journey to get. All the previous steps serve to prepare and purify the hero for this step, since in many myths the boon is something transcendent like the elixir of life itself, or a plant that supplies immortality, or the holy grail.\n\nCampbell: \"The gods and goddesses then are to be understood as embodiments and custodians of the elixir of Imperishable Being but not themselves the Ultimate in its primary state. What the hero seeks through his intercourse with them is therefore not finally themselves, but their grace, i.e., the power of their sustaining substance. This miraculous energy-substance and this alone is the Imperishable; the names and forms of the deities who everywhere embody, dispense, and represent it come and go. This is the miraculous energy of the thunderbolts of Zeus, Yahweh, and the Supreme Buddha, the fertility of the rain of Viracocha, the virtue announced by the bell rung in the Mass at the consecration, and the light of the ultimate illumination of the saint and sage. Its guardians dare release it only to the duly proven.\"\n\nHaving found bliss and enlightenment in the other world, the hero may not want to return to the ordinary world to bestow the boon onto his fellow man.\n\nCampbell: \"When the hero-quest has been accomplished, through penetration to the source, or through the grace of some male or female, human or animal, personification, the adventurer still must return with his life-transmuting trophy. The full round, the norm of the monomyth, requires that the hero shall now begin the labor of bringing the runes of wisdom, the Golden Fleece, or his sleeping princess, back into the kingdom of humanity, where the boon may redound to the renewing of the community, the nation, the planet or the ten thousand worlds. But the responsibility has been frequently refused. Even Gautama Buddha, after his triumph, doubted whether the message of realization could be communicated, and saints are reported to have died while in the supernal ecstasy. Numerous indeed are the heroes fabled to have taken up residence forever in the blessed isle of the unaging Goddess of Immortal Being.\"\n\nSometimes the hero must escape with the boon, if it is something that the gods have been jealously guarding. It can be just as adventurous and dangerous returning from the journey as it was to go on it.\n\nCampbell: \"If the hero in his triumph wins the blessing of the goddess or the god and is then explicitly commissioned to return to the world with some elixir for the restoration of society, the final stage of his adventure is supported by all the powers of his supernatural patron. On the other hand, if the trophy has been attained against the opposition of its guardian, or if the hero's wish to return to the world has been resented by the gods or demons, then the last stage of the mythological round becomes a lively, often comical, pursuit. This flight may be complicated by marvels of magical obstruction and evasion.\"\n\nJust as the hero may need guides and assistants to set out on the quest, often he or she must have powerful guides and rescuers to bring them back to everyday life, especially if the person has been wounded or weakened by the experience.\n\nCampbell: \"The hero may have to be brought back from his supernatural adventure by assistance from without. That is to say, the world may have to come and get him. For the bliss of the deep abode is not lightly abandoned in favor of the self-scattering of the wakened state. 'Who having cast off the world,' we read, 'would desire to return again? He would be only there.' And yet, in so far as one is alive, life will call. Society is jealous of those who remain away from it, and will come knocking at the door. If the hero... is unwilling, the disturber suffers an ugly shock; but on the other hand, if the summoned one is only delayed—sealed in by the beatitude of the state of perfect being (which resembles death)—an apparent rescue is effected, and the adventurer returns.\"\n\nThe trick in returning is to retain the wisdom gained on the quest, to integrate that wisdom into a human life, and then maybe figure out how to share the wisdom with the rest of the world.\n\nCampbell: \"The returning hero, to complete his adventure, must survive the impact of the world. Many failures attest to the difficulties of this life-affirmative threshold. The first problem of the returning hero is to accept as real, after an experience of the soul-satisfying vision of fulfillment, the passing joys and sorrows, banalities and noisy obscenities of life. Why re-enter such a world? Why attempt to make plausible, or even interesting, to men and women consumed with passion, the experience of transcendental bliss? As dreams that were momentous by night may seem simply silly in the light of day, so the poet and the prophet can discover themselves playing the idiot before a jury of sober eyes. The easy thing is to commit the whole community to the devil and retire again into the heavenly rock dwelling, close the door, and make it fast. But if some spiritual obstetrician has drawn the shimenawa across the retreat, then the work of representing eternity in time, and perceiving in time eternity, cannot be avoided\"\n\"The hero returns to the world of common day and must accept it as real.\"\n\nThis step is usually represented by a transcendental hero like Jesus or Gautama Buddha. For a human hero, it may mean achieving a balance between the material and spiritual. The person has become comfortable and competent in both the inner and outer worlds.\n\nCampbell: \"Freedom to pass back and forth across the world division, from the perspective of the apparitions of time to that of the causal deep and back—not contaminating the principles of the one with those of the other, yet permitting the mind to know the one by virtue of the other—is the talent of the master. The Cosmic Dancer, declares Nietzsche, does not rest heavily in a single spot, but gaily, lightly, turns and leaps from one position to another. It is possible to speak from only one point at a time, but that does not invalidate the insights of the rest. The individual, through prolonged psychological disciplines, gives up completely all attachment to his personal limitations, idiosyncrasies, hopes and fears, no longer resists the self-annihilation that is prerequisite to rebirth in the realization of truth, and so becomes ripe, at last, for the great at-one-ment. His personal ambitions being totally dissolved, he no longer tries to live but willingly relaxes to whatever may come to pass in him; he becomes, that is to say, an anonymity.\"\n\nMastery leads to freedom from the fear of death, which in turn is the freedom to live. This is sometimes referred to as living in the moment, neither anticipating the future nor regretting the past.\n\nCampbell: \"The hero is the champion of things becoming, not of things become, because he is. \"Before Abraham was, I AM.\" He does not mistake apparent changelessness in time for the permanence of Being, nor is he fearful of the next moment (or of the 'other thing'), as destroying the permanent with its change. 'Nothing retains its own form; but Nature, the greater renewer, ever makes up forms from forms. Be sure that nothing perishes in the whole universe; it does but vary and renew its form.' Thus the next moment is permitted to come to pass.\"\n\nThe monomyth concept has been popular in American literary studies and writing guides since at least the 1970s.\nChristopher Vogler, a Hollywood film producer and writer, created a 7-page company memo, \"A Practical Guide to The Hero With a Thousand Faces\", based on Campbell's work. Vogler's memo was later developed into the late 1990s book, \"\".\nGeorge Lucas' \"Star Wars\" (1977) was notably classified as monomyth almost as soon as it came out.\nIn addition to the extensive discussion between Campbell and Bill Moyers broadcast in 1988 on PBS as \"The Power of Myth\" (Filmed at \"Skywalker Ranch\"), on Campbell's influence on the \"Star Wars\" films, Lucas himself gave an extensive interview for the biography \"Joseph Campbell: A Fire in the Mind\" (Larsen and Larsen, 2002, pages 541-543) on this topic. In this interview, Lucas states that in the early 1970s after completing his early film, \"American Graffiti\", \"it came to me that there really was no modern use of mythology...so that's when I started doing more strenuous research on fairy tales, folklore and mythology, and I started reading Joe's books. Before that I hadn't read any of Joe's books... It was very eerie because in reading \"The Hero with A Thousand Faces\" I began to realize that my first draft of \"Star Wars\" was following classical motifs\" (p. 541). \nTwelve years after the making of \"The Power of Myth\", Moyers and Lucas met again for the 1999 interview, the \"Mythology of Star Wars with George Lucas & Bill Moyers\", to further discuss the impact of Campbell's work on Lucas's films. \nIn addition, the National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution sponsored an exhibit during the late 1990s called \"Star Wars: The Magic of Myth\" which discussed the ways in which Campbell's work shaped the \"Star Wars\" films. A companion guide of the same name was published in 1997.\n\nNumerous literary works of popular fiction have been identified as examples of the monomyth template, including\nSpenser's \"The Fairie Queene\",\nMelville's \"Moby Dick\",\nCharlotte Brontë's \"Jane Eyre\",\nworks by Charles Dickens, William Faulkner, Maugham, J. D. Salinger,\nErnest Hemingway,\nMark Twain, \nW. B. Yeats, C. S. Lewis,\nand J. R. R. Tolkien,\nSeamus Heaney\nand Stephen King, among many others.\n\nCharlotte Brontë's character Jane Eyre is an important figure in illustrating heroines and their place within the Hero's Journey. Charlotte Brontë sought to craft a unique female character that the term \"Heroine\" could fully encompass. \"Jane Eyre\" is a \"Bildungsroman\", a coming-of-age story common in Victorian fiction, also referred to as an apprenticeship novel, that show moral and psychological development of the protagonist as they grow into adults. Jane being a Middle-class Victorian woman would face entirely different obstacles and conflict than her male counterparts of this era such as Pip in \"Great Expectations\". This would change the course of the Hero’s Journey as Bronte was able to recognize the fundamental conflict that plagued women of this time. One main source of this conflict being women’s relationship with power and wealth and often being distant from obtaining both. Charlotte Brontë takes Jane's character a step further by making her more passionate and outspoken than other Victorian women of this time. The abuse and psychological trauma Jane receives from the Reeds as a child cause her to develop two central goals for her to complete her heroine journey: A need to love and be loved and her need for liberty. Jane accomplishes part of attaining liberty when she castigates Mrs. Reed for treating her poorly as a child, obtaining the freedom of her mind. As Jane grows throughout the novel she also becomes unwilling to sacrifice one of her goals for the other. When Rochester, the temptress in her journey, asks her to stay with him as her mistress she refuses as it would jeopardize the freedom she struggled to obtain. She instead returns after Rochester's wife passes away, when she becomes free to marry him and able to achieve both of her goals and complete her role in the Hero's Journey. While the story ends with a marriage trope, Brontë has Jane return to Rochester after several chances to grow allowing her to return as close to equals as possible, while also having fleshed out her growth within the heroine's journey. Since Jane is able to marry Rochester as an equal and through her own means this makes Jane one of the most satisfying and fulfilling heroines in literature and in the heroine's journey.\n\nThe story \"Metamorphoses\" also known as \"The Golden Ass\" by Apuleius in 158 A.D. is one of the most enduring and retold myths involving the Hero's Journey. The tale of Cupid and Psyche is a frame tale, a story within a story and is one of the thirteen stories within \"Metamorphoses\". Use of the frame tale puts both the story teller and reader into the novel as characters, which explores a main aspect of the hero's journey due to it being a process of tradition where literature is written and read. Cupid and Psyche's tale has become the most popular of \"Metamorphoses\" and has been retold many times with successful iterations dating as recently as 1956's \"Till We Have Faces\" by C.S. Lewis. Much of the tale's captivation comes from the central heroine Psyche. Psyche's place within the hero's journey is fascinating and complex as it revolves around her characteristics of being a beautiful woman and the conflict that arises from it. Psyche's beauty causes her to become ostracized from society as no male suitors will ask to marry her as they feel unworthy of her seemingly divine beauty and kind nature. Due to this, Psyche's call to adventure is involuntary as her beauty enrages the goddess Venus, which results in Psyche being banished from her home. Part of what makes Psyche such a polarizing figure within the heroine's journey is her nature and ability to triumph over the unfair trials set upon her by Venus. Psyche is given four seemingly impossible tasks by Venus in order to get her husband Cupid back: The Sorting of the seeds, the fleecing of the golden rams, collecting a crystal jar full of the water of death, and retrieving a beauty creme from Hades. The last task is considered to be one of the most monumental and memorable tasks ever to be taken on in the history of the heroine's journey due to its difficulty. Yet, Psyche is able to achieve each task and complete her ultimate goal of becoming eternal and going to Mt. Olympus to be with her husband Cupid finishing her heroine's journey. \n\nScholars have questioned the validity or usefulness of the monomyth category.\n\nAccording to Northup (2006), mainstream scholarship of comparative mythology since Campbell has moved away from \"highly general and universal\" categories in general.\nThis attitude is illustrated by e.g. Consentino (1998), who remarks \"It is just as important to stress differences as similarities, to avoid creating a (Joseph) Campbell soup of myths that loses all local flavor.\" \nSimilarly, Ellwood (1999) stated \"A tendency to think in generic terms of people, races ... is undoubtedly the profoundest flaw in mythological thinking.\"\n\nOthers have found the categories Campbell works with so vague as to be meaningless, and lacking the support required of scholarly argument: Crespi (1990), writing in response to Campbell's filmed presentation of his model, characterized it as \"unsatisfying from a social science perspective. Campbell's ethnocentrism will raise objections, and his analytic level is so abstract and devoid of ethnographic context that myth loses the very meanings supposed to be embedded in the 'hero.'\"\n\nIn a similar vein, American philosopher John Shelton Lawrence and American religious scholar Robert Jewett have discussed an \"American Monomyth\" in many of their books, \"The American Monomyth\", \"The Myth of the American Superhero\" (2002), and \"Captain America and the Crusade Against Evil: The Dilemma of Zealous Nationalism\" (2003). They present this as an American reaction to the Campbellian monomyth. The \"American Monomyth\" storyline is: \"A community in a harmonious paradise is threatened by evil; normal institutions fail to contend with this threat; a selfless superhero emerges to renounce temptations and carry out the redemptive task; aided by fate, his decisive victory restores the community to its paradisiacal condition; the superhero then recedes into obscurity.\"\n\nThe monomyth has also been criticized for focusing on the masculine journey. \"The Heroine's Journey\" (1990) by Maureen Murdock and \"From Girl to Goddess: The Heroine's Journey through Myth and Legend\" (2010), by Valerie Estelle Frankel, both set out what they consider the steps of the female hero's journey, which is different from Campbell's monomyth.\n\nAccording to changingminds.org, \"[Campbell's] much admired and much-copied pattern has also been criticized as leading to 'safe' moviemaking, in which writers use his structure as a template, thus leading to 'boring' repeats, albeit in different clothes.\"\n\nWhile Frank Herbert's \"Dune\" (1965) on the surface appears to follow the monomyth, this was in fact to subvert it and take a critical view, as the author said in 1979, \"The bottom line of the \"Dune\" trilogy is: beware of heroes. Much better [to] rely on your own judgment, and your own mistakes.\" He wrote in 1985, \"\"Dune\" was aimed at this whole idea of the infallible leader because my view of history says that mistakes made by a leader (or made in a leader's name) are amplified by the numbers who follow without question.\"\n\nScience fiction author David Brin in a 1999 \"Salon\" article criticized the monomyth template as supportive of \"despotism and tyranny\", indicating that he thinks modern popular fiction should strive to depart from it in order to support more progressivist values.\n\nIn narratology and comparative mythology, others have proposed narrative patterns such as psychoanalyst Otto Rank in 1909 and anthropologist Lord Raglan in 1936. Both have lists of different cross-cultural traits often found in the accounts of heroes, including mythical heroes. According to Robert Segal, \"The theories of Rank, Campbell, and Raglan typify the array of analyses of hero myths.\"\n\nThe Hero's Journey as described by Campbell has served as inspiration to a variety of therapeutic / self-help contexts. Paul Rebillot, Gestalt therapist, leader in the human potential movement and major creative force in international psychotherapy and experiential education, who met Joseph Campbell at the Esalen Institute, developed a ritual therapeutic structure named after the \"Hero's Journey\". Rebillot's Hero's Journey, a modern rite of passage in the form of a week-long workshop, involves participants enacting their own personal heroine's or hero's journey, embodying the various archetypes detailed in Campbell's Hero's Journey (inner heroic figure, inner demon, spirit guide, etc.). By identifying with these archetypes as parts of the self and transforming the relationship between them, rather than projecting them outwards, participants have the opportunity to internalise the locus of control for the dramaturgy of their own life-story (see \"The Hero's Journey: A Call to Adventure\" (2017) by Paul Rebillot and Melissa Kay). Rebillot's workshop enjoys increasing popularity and success, especially in German-speaking countries.\n\nPoet Robert Bly, Michael J. Meade, and others involved in the men's movement have also applied and expanded the concepts of the hero's journey and the monomyth as a metaphor for personal spiritual and psychological growth, particularly in the mythopoetic men's movement.\n\nCharacteristic of the mythopoetic men's movement is a tendency to retell fairy tales and engage in their exegesis as a tool for personal insight. Using frequent references to archetypes as drawn from Jungian analytical psychology, the movement focuses on issues of gender role, gender identity and wellness for modern men. Advocates would often engage in storytelling with music, these acts being seen as a modern extension to a form of \"new age shamanism\" popularized by Michael Harner at approximately the same time.\n\nAmong its most famous advocates were the poet Robert Bly, whose book \"\" was a best-seller, being an exegesis of the fairy tale \"Iron John\" by the Brothers Grimm.\n\nThe mythopoetic men's movement spawned a variety of groups and workshops, led by authors such as Bly and Robert L. Moore. Some serious academic work came out of this movement, including the creation of various magazines and non-profit organizations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39299", "title": "Hide-and-seek", "text": "Hide-and-seek\n\nHide-and-seek, or hide-and-go-seek, is a popular children's game in which any number of players (ideally at least three) conceal themselves in a set environment, to be found by one or more seekers. The game is played by one player chosen (designated as being \"it\") closing their eyes and counting to a predetermined number while the other players hide. For example, count to 100 in units of 5 or count to 20, one two three and keep counting up till it reaches twenty. After reaching this number, the player who is \"it\" calls \"Ready or not, here I come!\" and then attempts to locate all concealed players.\n\nThe game can end in one of several ways. In the most common variation of the game, the player chosen as \"it\" locates all players as the players are not allowed to move; the player found last is the winner and is chosen to be \"it\" in the next game. Another common variation has the seeker counting at \"home base\"; the hiders can either remain hidden or they can come out of hiding to race to home base; once they touch it, they are \"safe\" and cannot be tagged. In Ohio, a hider must yell \"free\" when he touches base or he can still be tagged out. But if the seeker tags another player before reaching home base, that person becomes \"it.\"\n\nThe game is an example of an oral tradition, as it is commonly passed by children.\n\nDifferent versions of the game are played around the world, under a variety of names. \n\nOne derivative in game is called \"Sardines\", in which only one person hides and the others must find them, hiding with them when they do so. The hiding places become progressively more cramped, like sardines in a tin. The last person to find the hiding group is the loser and subsequently the hider for the next round. This game is best played at night in a big area like a park, or in a dark room or just regular lighting inside as traditional hide and seek is played. A. M. Burrage calls this version of the game \"Smee\" in his 1931 ghost story of the same name.\n\nIn some versions of the game, after the first player is caught or if not any other players can be found over a period of time, \"it\" calls out a pre-agreed phrase (such as \"Olly olly oxen free\", or \"All in, All in, Everybody out there all in free\") to signal the other hiders to return to base for the next round. In another version, when players are caught they help the \"it\" seek out others.\nThe original term is \"All ye all ye, come for free\". Over the years this term has taken on various phrases, the most popular is \"Olly olly oxen free\".\n\nIn one variant, once all hiders have been located, the game then becomes a game of tag where the \"it\" chases after all the other players and the first person tagged becomes the \"it\".\n\nIn another, the hiders who are found help the \"it\" track down the remaining hiders, but the first person to be found becomes the next \"it.\"\n\nIn another variant the game is called \"Chase\". It is however team based and plays only after dusk. Two teams—the hiders and the seekers—are each composed of two or more players. There is a central home base (a.k.a safe) from which the seekers count and hiders must return to without being tagged by a seeker in order to be considered \"free\" to hide again. All players dress in black. No flashlights are allowed. The only lights in the playing field are those from street lamps or natural lighting. The goal is for the hiders to take advantage of camouflage of the shadows in the surrounding area. The game is meant to be stealth. When a hider is caught—tagged by a seeker—the hider does not get to hide again and must remain on home base. If a hider returns home \"free\" without being tagged they can hide again in the next round representing their team. When all hiders are caught then the hiders become the seekers and the seekers become the hiders. Hiders cannot leave the boundaries of the playing field or else are immediately \"caught\" or \"out\" from the round. The origins of this version arose in Greece, NY in 1976 and had a large following through the end of 1989. It's popularity waned in the 1990s as parents began helicoptering their children—worrying about adolescent safety at night.\n\nIn some parts of Australia, the game is called \"44 Homes.\" The hiders hide until they are spotted by the seeker, who chants, \"Forty, Forty, I see you\" (sometimes shortened to \"Forty, forty, see you\"). Once spotted, the hider must run to \"home base\" (where the \"it\" was counting while the other players hid) and touch it before she or he is \"tipped\" (tagged, or touched) by the seeker. If tagged, that hider becomes the new \"it.\"\n\nIn North India, hide-and-seek is played differently – if any of the 'hiders' touch the seeker and says 'Dhappa', then the seeker has to count again. However, if the seeker sees the hider before they manage to touch him/her and say dhappa, then that hider will be 'it' the next round, unless some other hider manages to 'Dhappa' the seeker without being seen.But now, instead of doing Dhappa on the \"IT\"s body, hiders can do dhappa where the \"it\" counts. The \"it\" is simply called as \"Dianer\" (daa-ee-nuh-rr); and the dianers takes a dian.(count)\n\nIn Brazil and Russia, hide-and-seek has an extra step. The \"it\" starts counting with eyes closed and facing the wall while everyone hides. Once the \"it\" finds someone, they must race to the spot where the \"it\" was originally counting and facing the wall and whoever touches that spot first, wins the game. This is also sometimes played by other countries.\n\nHide and Go Seek in the dark is another variant that is very self explanatory. You play hide and go seek at night in a park or field or in a house at night with the lights off.\n\nHide and seek world championship officially named \"Nascondino World Championship\" is the unique international hide-and-seek competition, a team play for adults, with non-diversified categories by gender. Born in 2010 in the Italian city of Bergamo, it is held annually in Italy, in summer. The game is a derivative of the Italian version of hide and seek, \"nascondino\" (hide-and-seek in Italian), and takes place on a playground in the open air, set up with artificial and natural hideouts. The seventh competition took place in September 2017, with 70 teams from 11 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "4440305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4440305", "title": "Highlander II: The Quickening", "text": "Highlander II: The Quickening\n\nHighlander II: The Quickening is a 1991 American science fiction action film directed by Russell Mulcahy and starring Christopher Lambert, Sean Connery, Virginia Madsen, and Michael Ironside. It is the second installment to the \"Highlander\" film series, and it was released on 12 April 1991 in the United Kingdom and November 1, 1991, in the United States.\n\nThe film has received negative reviews from critics and fans of the \"Highlander\" franchise for its retcons of the prior film, which drastically alter the series storyline and introduce a number of inconsistencies. Several alternative versions have been released by the filmmakers in an attempt to address these common complaints. The original theatrical edition is considered one of the worst films ever released.\n\nIn August 1994, news broadcasts announce that the ozone layer is fading, and will be completely gone in a matter of months. In Africa, millions have perished from the effects of unfiltered sunlight. Among the dead is Connor MacLeod's wife, Brenda Wyatt MacLeod. Before dying, Brenda extracts a promise from Connor that he will solve the problem of the ozone layer.\n\nBy 1999, Connor MacLeod becomes the supervisor of a scientific team headed by Dr. Allan Neyman, which attempts to create an electromagnetic shield to cover the planet, and protect it from the Sun’s radiation. The team succeeds, in effect giving Earth an artificial ozone layer. MacLeod and Neyman are proud to have saved humanity, and believe they will be remembered for a thousand years.\n\nThe shield has the side effect of condemning the planet to a state of constant night, a high average global temperature, and high humidity. By 2024, the years of darkness have caused humanity to lose hope and fall into a decline. The shield has fallen under the control of the Shield Corporation. The corporation’s current chief executive, David Blake, is focused on profit, and is imposing fees for the corporation’s services. A number of terrorist groups have begun trying to take down the Shield, among them Louise Marcus, a former employee of the Shield Corporation.\n\nMeanwhile, MacLeod, now a frail old man, expects to eventually die of natural causes. As he watches a performance of Wagner’s \"Götterdämmerung\", an image of Juan Sanchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez appears, and induces MacLeod to recall a forgotten event of his past. On the planet Zeist, a last meeting is held between the members of a rebellion against the rule of General Katana. The rebellion’s leader, Ramirez, chooses \"a man of great destiny\" from among them—MacLeod—to carry out a mission against Katana. At this moment, Katana and his troops attack, crushing the rebellion. Katana orders his men to capture Ramirez and MacLeod alive and kill the rest of the rebels. The two captives are put on trial by Zeist's priests, who sentence them to be exiled and reborn on Earth in pursuit of \"The Prize.\" Winning the Prize gives the victor the choice to either grow old and die on Earth, or to return to Zeist. Katana is unsatisfied with their decision, but the sentence is executed, leading to the events of the original 1986 film.\n\nBack in 2024, Louise Marcus discovers that the ozone layer has in fact restored itself naturally, which means that the shield is no longer needed. The Shield Corporation is aware of this development, but has chosen to hide it from the general public in order to maintain its main source of profit. Meanwhile, on Zeist, Katana decides that MacLeod cannot be allowed to return, and sends his immortal henchmen, Corda and Reno, to kill him.\n\nMarcus manages to reach MacLeod first, and asks for his help in taking down the Shield. To her disappointment, she finds the passionate person she once admired has grown into a tired old man. MacLeod explains to her that he is dying and expresses his disapproval of terrorism. Before they can finish their conversation, Corda and Reno attack. MacLeod manages to decapitate them both, absorbs their energy during the Quickening, and regains his youthful appearance. In the process, MacLeod summons Ramirez back to life.\n\nIn Glencoe, Scotland - the location of his death in the first \"Highlander\" film - Ramirez is revived. He finds himself on a theatrical stage during a performance of William Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\". Meanwhile, MacLeod has found a new lover in Marcus. He attempts unsuccessfully to explain to her the concepts of his immortality. Elsewhere, General Katana arrives in New York, the scene of The Gathering and begins wreaking havoc.\n\nBoth Ramirez and Katana soon adapt to their new environment. Ramirez’s earring is valuable enough to pay both for a new suit he acquires from the finest and oldest tailor’s shop in Scotland, and for an airplane ticket to New York City. Katana finds New York much to his liking. After entertaining himself for a while, Katana encounters MacLeod at a church. Since immortals are forbidden from fighting on holy ground, they do not fight each other, but MacLeod expresses rage at being immortal once again.\n\nSoon thereafter, MacLeod is contacted by Ramirez, who joins them in their plan to take down the Shield. Katana, expecting this, forges an uneasy alliance with David Blake, who mentions that shutting down the planetary shield would require so much energy that the planet would be destroyed. The conflict between the two sets of allies eventually leads to the deaths of Dr. Allan Neyman, Ramirez, Blake and General Katana himself. MacLeod succeeds in taking down the Shield by using the combined energies of his final Quickening from General Katana. Marcus sees the stars for the first time in her life. MacLeod then claims The Prize by returning to Zeist with Marcus.\n\n\nThe sets of \"Highlander II\" have been compared to those of Ridley Scott, particularly those of \"Blade Runner\". Lambert and Ironside both suffered injuries during the filming, according to the \"St. Petersburg Times\": \"Lambert chipped one of Ironside's teeth during a fight scene, while Ironside inadvertently chopped off part of Lambert's finger during a swordfight scene. Both men recovered from their injuries, but Ironside said precision thrusts and parries were impossible when wielding a 22-pound broadsword.\"\n\nJohn C. McGinley made his character's voice as deep as possible in an effort to sound like Orson Welles. He has since admitted that this was a bad idea.\n\nAccording to the documentary \"Highlander II: Seduced by Argentina\", the film's apparent poor performance is partially a result of the bonding company’s interference with the work of director Russell Mulcahy. Mulcahy reportedly hated the final product so much he walked out of the film’s world premiere after viewing its first 15 minutes. For similar reasons, Christopher Lambert threatened to walk out of the project when it was nearing fruition. However, due to contract obligations, he did not.\n\nA once lost alternate ending, commonly known as \"The Fairytale Ending\", was shown only in some European theaters and has never been shown in any of the American cuts. The ending shows Connor magically returning to planet Zeist, taking Louise along with him, while Ramirez’ voice is heard in the background. An early version of this ending is shown on the \"Special Edition\". However, it also includes footage of Virginia Madsen as Louise Marcus speaking to Christopher Lambert as Connor MacLeod. Madsen is on location while Lambert is suspended by wires in front of a blue screen. After a brief exchange where Connor asks Louise to come with him, the theatrical ending is shown where the two embrace in front of a field of stars, then transform into light streaks and fly off into space.\n\nThis ending is sometimes seen in televised broadcasts of \"Highlander II: The Quickening\". The VHS version simply cuts off after Connor looks up at the starry sky and smiles, after the smoke from the explosion of the December Installation clears.\n\n\"Highlander II: The Quickening\" was released in the US on November 1, 1991, and opened at #3, grossing $5.3 million in 960 theaters in the opening weekend. It grossed a total of $15.6 million in the US.\n\nA $1 million television advertising campaign was run for the release of the film.\n\nThe theatrical cut was released on VHS during May 13, 1992, in the United States by Columbia TriStar.\n\nTwo versions of \"Highlander II\" were released theatrically in 1991. Nigel Green of Entertainment Film Distributors, which distributed the film in the UK, allowed the creative team the chance to make their own version of the film after the completion bond company took over the editing. The UK theatrical version ran 8 minutes longer than the US/bonding company's cut, and featured, among other sequences, an extended prologue better explaining Connor's motives for creating the Shield, Connor and Louise above the Shield, and the aforementioned \"Fairytale Ending\".\n\nIn 1995, Mulcahy made a director's cut version known as the \"Renegade Version\". The film was reconstructed largely from existing material; certain scenes were removed and others added back in, and the entire sequence of events was changed. All references to the Immortals being aliens from another planet were eliminated; instead, this cut reveals that the Immortals are from an unspecified, distant past on Earth, banished by priests into random locations in the future to keep the Prize from being won in their lifetime.\n\nOther new sequences include a battle between MacLeod and Katana atop a moving vehicle after they escape the security facility, and MacLeod and Louise climb through a mountain tunnel to emerge above the Shield to confirm that the radiation levels are back to normal. The new version removes a major continuity gaffe from the theatrical version, which had merged two separate sword fights between MacLeod and Katana into one longer climactic battle. The director’s cut version restores them to two separate battles, although it never shows how or when Connor reacquired his katana.\n\nProducers Panzer and Davis revisited \"Highlander II\" once again in 2004. Dubbed the \"Special Edition\", this cut was nearly identical to the \"Renegade Version\", but with a few alterations. The most obvious change is the introduction of new CGI special effects throughout the film, including a now-blue shield as originally intended, and a small piece of voice-over work by Lambert.\n\nReviewing the 2004 \"Special Edition\" DVD, David Ryan of DVD Verdict gave it a score of 69 out of 100 and said that \"[this] is the best version of this film that [the producers] can make with the material they have on hand. It's still not a particularly good film—but it's \"infinitely\" superior to the original version. ... What was once a horrible, horrible film has become downright tolerable, and actually somewhat entertaining at times.\"\n\nThe film is sometimes listed as one of the worst films ever made. , based on 23 reviews collected by Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a 0% approval rating with an average rating of 2.7/10. On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 31 out of 100 based on 14 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\". Common criticisms included the lack of motivation for the characters, the new and seemingly incongruent origin for the Immortals, the resurrection of Ramirez, and apparent contradictions in the film's internal logic.\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film a score of 0.5 stars (out of four), saying: \"\"Highlander II: The Quickening\" is the most hilariously incomprehensible movie I've seen in many a long day—a movie almost awesome in its badness. Wherever science fiction fans gather, in decades and generations to come, this film will be remembered in hushed tones as one of the immortal low points of the genre.\"\n\nGiving the film a score of 2 out of 10, IGN's review of the film said: \"How bad is this movie? Well, imagine if Ed Wood were alive today, and someone gave him a multi-million dollar budget. See his imagination running rampant, bringing in aliens from outer space with immensely powerful firearms, immortals who bring each other back to life by calling out their names, epic duels on flying skateboards, and a blatant disregard for anything logical or previously established—now you are starting to get closer to the vision of \"Highlander II\".\n\nAwarding the film one star out of five, Christopher Null of FilmCritic.com said, \"\"Highlander\" has become a bit of a joke, and here's where the joke started. ... Incomprehensible doesn't even begin to explain it. This movie is the equivalent of the 'Hey, look over there!' gag. You look, and the guy you wanted to beat up has run away and hid.\"\n\nDavid Nusair of \"Reel Film Reviews\" gave the film two stars out of four, saying: \"It's hard to imagine \"Highlander II\" appealing to non-fans of the first film, as the film barely captures the sense of \"fun\" that was so prevalent in the original. With its complicated storyline and dreary visuals, it occasionally feels more perfunctory than anything else—though, to be fair, it's nowhere near as bad as it's been made out to be over the years.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "45382070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45382070", "title": "Hotstar", "text": "Hotstar\n\nHotstar is an Indian digital and mobile entertainment platform launched in 6 February 2015 by Star India. It is owned by Novi Digital Entertainment, a wholly owned subsidiary of Star India. Launched in 6 February 2015, it provides streaming media and video-on-demand services. It is available on Web, Android, iOS, and Apple TV platforms.\n\nThe beta version of hotstar.com went live in January 2015, Star India officially launched hotstar in February 2015. Primarily intended to serve as a mobile application that would support streaming of the 2015 Cricket World Cup with some entertainment content, it had 1 million downloads within six days of its launch and doubled that number in ten days . Gradually, Hotstar expanded its offerings, and as of 2018 the platform hosts over 100,000 hours of content, spread across 17 languages.\n\nIn September 2017, Star India won the worldwide IPL media rights for TV and digital broadcast for a five-year period, from 2018 to 2022. With 14 companies tendering bids, Star beat out the competition with an offer of INR 16,347.5 crore (USD 2.55 billion), a 158% increase in the media rights value for IPL broadcasting from the previous cycle. \n\nTowards the end of 2017, Hotstar launched its premium service in the United States and Canada on the country's respective iOS AppStore and Google Play stores. \n\nThe app garnered 340 million views for all 49 matches during the ICC Cricket World Cup 2015 and over 200 million views during the Indian Premier League Season 8, this year. With over 100 million downloads, hotstar has more than 100 advertisers on the platform. Hotstar contents are provided either free of cost or on a subscription basis. Premium contents are available only to premium membership holders. Bulk of their revenue generation is through advertisements.\n\nIn addition to the website, Hotstar is available as an application across mobile devices which are on Android, iOS and Apple TV platforms. Hotstar Android application is currently available in India, USA and Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3207996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3207996", "title": "In Search of a Concrete Music", "text": "In Search of a Concrete Music\n\nIn Search of a Concrete Music (French: \"À la recherche d'une musique concrète\"), written and published in 1952, is a French language publication which forms a major part of the experimental composer and theoretician Pierre Schaeffer's collection of works written to record his own undertakings on the development of musique concrète.\n\nThe collection is discussed, among other works of Schaeffer's, in chapter two of Robert Martial's \"Pierre Schaeffer, des transmissions à Orphée\".\n\nIn this text, some have suggested, Schaeffer imagined a computerized music studio:\n\n\nDelalande, François. \"D’une technologie à l’autre.\" \"Enjeux et initiatives.\" 6-10.\n"}
{"id": "24590850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24590850", "title": "Joseph Conlin", "text": "Joseph Conlin\n\nJoseph H. Conlin (February 12, 1928 – March 5, 2007) was an American impresario and opera director. Born in Chicago, Conlin founded Conlin Associates, a New York based talent management agency which presented many important European artists via United States tours, including Beniamino Gigli, Jussi Björling, and Renata Tebaldi. He also served as the General Director of the Palm Beach Opera during the 1980s. At the time of his death in West Palm Beach, Florida he was president of the Musicians' Club of New York and was still active as a concert presenter.\n"}
{"id": "3087285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3087285", "title": "Kakilambe", "text": "Kakilambe\n\nKakilambe or Kaki lambe (sometimes spelled as \"Kalilambe\") is an African dance. It is a ritual dance. \n\nThere is contradictory information as to whether it is originated among the Baga people of Guinea or in Mali. It is also known in some other West African countries. \n\nThis name is also used to refer to different percussion patterns in African music, some of which are individual variations, and some differ significantly: some of them being in 6/8 and 12/8, while others in 4/4 time. Kakilambe is a dance as a symbol of the celebration of growth of crops, life, and mostly the birth of children. The Kakilambe brings all these blessings and they celebrate his coming with the dance called \"Kakilambe\". \n\nKakilambe is a Masked Dance that appears 1x a year or 1x every seven years. It is a special celebration where the elders of the village hold on to ropes that come from the mask. The dance begins slowly and questions are asked of the prophet about the year ahead. Will the crops grow, will the health be well, will children be born. Then, Kakilambe continues to dance but as he does, he grows to over 2x the size and twirls and twirls around. The rhythm gets a little chaotic and then goes into a fast version of the rhythm/dance. It is 3x faster than the original tempo. It gets very exciting as the answers to the questions are given to the elders and people celebrate.\n\nThe variant taught by Mamady Keïta is based on the music of Baga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10872400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10872400", "title": "List of Mexican submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film", "text": "List of Mexican submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film\n\nMexico has submitted films for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film since 1957. The award is handed out annually by the United States Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to a feature-length motion picture produced outside the United States that contains primarily non-English dialogue. The award was not created until the 1956 Academy Awards, in which a competitive Academy Award of Merit, known as the Best Foreign Language Film Award, was created for non-English speaking films, and has been given annually since.\n\nMexico has submitted fifty-one films for Oscar consideration over the years, and eight Mexican films have been nominated by the Academy for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. Arturo Ripstein has represented Mexico five times—more than any other Mexican director—although he has never received an Oscar nomination.\n\nThe Mexican nominee is selected annually by the Academia Mexicana de Artes y Ciencias Cinematográficas. The selection committee holds separate votes to decide which film goes to the Oscars and, in a separate vote, which film goes to the Spanish Goya Awards.\n\nThe Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has invited the film industries of various countries to submit their best film for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film since 1956. The Foreign Language Film Award Committee oversees the process and reviews all the submitted films. Following this, they vote via secret ballot to determine the five nominees for the award. Below is a list of the films that have been submitted by Mexico for review by the Academy for the award by year and the respective Academy Awards ceremony.\n\nAll Mexican submissions were exclusively in Spanish with two exceptions: their 2007 submission, \"Silent Light\", which was exclusively in the Plautdietsch dialect of Low German; as well as their 2018 submission, \"Roma\", which is partially in Spanish as well as partially in Mixtec.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22777647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22777647", "title": "Louisiana Music Hall of Fame", "text": "Louisiana Music Hall of Fame\n\nThe Louisiana Music Hall of Fame (LMHOF) is an IRS certified 501 (c)(3) non-profit organization based in the state's capital of Baton Rouge, that seeks to honor and preserve Louisiana's rich music culture and heritage and to further educate its citizens and people worldwide about the state's unique role in contributing to American indigenous and popular music in the 20th century. The motto of the LMHOF is \"\"honoring and preserving Louisiana's greatest renewable natural resource\".\" Its primary outreach currently consists of a growing online \"multimedia virtual museum.\" The organization is also actively developing partnerships and programs for collections, exhibitions, education aids and programs and performances. The LMHOF also seeks to stimulate economic growth by promoting the rejuvenation of the state's music industry. In one specific example, in 2009 LMHOF facilitated pro bono an advertising endorsement agreement between Al \"Carnival Time\" Johnson and the Louisiana Lottery Corp. which resulted in unprecedented media exposure and royalties to Johnson for use of his image,voice and signature song in a scratch ticket promotion during Mardi Gras season.\n\nAmong the over 200 artists who have been inducted into the Louisiana Music Hall of Fame to date are Fats Domino, Jerry Lee Lewis, Little Richard, Dave Bartholomew, Elvis Presley, Lloyd Price, Lead Belly, Cosimo Matassa, Louis Armstrong, Mahalia Jackson, Pete Fountain, Buddy Guy, Gov. Jimmie Davis, Ellis Marsalis, Webb Pierce, Dale Hawkins, Louis Prima, Percy Sledge, Irma Thomas, Roy Brown, \"Dr. John\" Mac Rebennack, Jelly Roll Morton, Allen Toussaint, Al \"Carnival Time\" Johnson, Bill Conti, Tim McGraw, Trace Adkins, Hunter Hayes, Hank Williams Sr. & Jr., and Clarence \"Frogman\" Henry. The list of inductees is expected to eventually top 1,000 international luminaries, and the program will expand to include recognition of significant songwriters, support musicians, business icons and regionally famous artists in niche recognition categories. The range of inductees reflects the true diversity of Louisiana's music and its impact on 20th-century music around the world. In the 1920s, Lead Belly and Jelly Roll Morton covered the spectrum arching over blues forms from Shreveport to New Orleans. As eras passed, Louis Armstrong and Louis Prima dominated, Webb Pierce and Gov. Jimmie Davis and country music rolled as Cosimo Matassa recorded \"Good Rockin' Tonight\" which spread immediately from New Orleans to Shreveport through The Louisiana Hayride, effectively merging the \"Hayride\" and New Orleans genres into a whole new genre. Mahalia Jackson became the dominant gospel artist and Pete Fountain and Al Hirt jazzed the world. In the 1950s and 1960s, the likes of Fats Domino, Jerry Lee Lewis, Dale Hawkins, Johnny Rivers, Frogman Henry, Robert Parker, Phil Phillips, John Fred & His Playboys, Jimmy Clanton, The Meters, The Dixie Cups, and Jean Knight dominated the charts and record sales. Even Louisiana's writers like Bobby Charles, Allen Toussaint, Dave Bartholomew and Dick Holler drove the industry with their songs. Throughout this global process, Louisiana continued to grow its own unique and original Cajun, Zydeco and \"Swamp Pop\" musical genres. Few people appreciate that in the early 19th century New Orleans was the site of the first opera house in America and produced one of the country's first major composers, Louis Moreau Gottschalk. From Classical to Rock & Roll, Jazz to Rhythm & Blues, Gospel to Country & Western, Louisiana has been integral to American music history and was at the forefront of the music revolutions of the 20th century.\n\nThe Louisiana Music Hall of Fame has launched an innovative LMHOF \"Multimedia Virtual Museum\" online concept. While physical exhibits are in the development plans, the Internet now provides people anywhere in the world to visit and immerse themselves in the rich culture of Louisiana music. The GALLERIES MUSIQUE allow visitors to spend as much or as little time as they choose, and visit at any time that they choose. Extensive static images, music files and video albums are provided on each inductee. Digital based movable exhibitions are available whenever and wherever scheduled.\n\nThe ongoing one-on-one interaction with inductees and future inductees gleans the history and details of the music and artists directly from the artists. Combining and correlating this information with the constant research and discovery of facts and artifacts, and adding the immediate publishing time of the virtual museum, the LMHOF is able to provide the most accurate and current information available anywhere.\n\nIn July 2015 the LMHOF launched the \"LMHOF Wall Of Fame at BTR,\" a truly unique double-sided display consisting of 43 Gold records accompanied by unique artwork honoring 50 LMHOF Inductee members and accompanying dual 50 ultra-flat LED screens giving points of the history of the 50 artists in the Baton Rouge Metro Airport public area.\n\nIn 2016, the Louisiana Music Hall of Fame has plans to open larger displays featuring more complex Gold record presentations as well as displays featuring artifacts in display of Inductee members in as many as three more locations across the state and a full blown museum display in New Orleans, the home of America's music.\n\nEducation is the heart of The Louisiana Music Hall of Fame's mission. The organization has plans to create \"The History of Louisiana Music\" popular/text book as the forerunner for inclusion of Louisiana music history in curricula in the state's Universities and Junior Colleges. These programs include oral histories, narrated biographies, music and recorded live performances. Louisiana Ticket programming will also be available to the world via the LMHOF web site and, beginning in 2016, through HD air and cable channel television broadcasts throughout most of Louisiana.\n\nLMHOF's multimedia virtual museum is rapidly becoming a valuable resource for research on and about Louisiana artists and music. The LMHOF also stores redundant digital files of its entire archives assuring survival of the content. The LMHOF records oral history interviews with inductees and other valued assets wherever possible and records all performances in HD and multi-track digital audio as they archive exclusive and unique performances for historical reference. Many of these oral history pieces can now be found in the virtual museum under the appropriate inductee, as can numerous live performance recordings ever known to exist by many of the inductees. LMHOF has also partnered with the East Baton Rouge Parish Library to be included as a primary link for education and information about Louisiana Music.\n\nThe Louisiana Music Hall of Fame produces a '\"Louisiana Ticket'\" video series, first begun in 1999, as both the official museum broadcast series with in-depth looks at Louisiana's artists and music. The state's legends, landmarks and unsung heroes are explored through insightful features, historical articles, news and reviews. Louisiana Ticket will also soon distribute this programming across the world through the LMHOF Web site and through HD broadcasts throughout Louisiana via cable television networks.\n\nThe Louisiana Music Hall of Fame's institutional history began in 1979 when, with help from current driving force Mike Shepherd, Del Moon, a Baton Rouge, La. print and television entertainment journalist first put forward his intent to create the LMHOF. In 1980, a corporation was formed, nonprofit status obtained and the initial project drive began. After several years, Moon back shelved the full-time pursuit of the project, having fought a severe economic recession and having received only cursory cooperation from State and local government and funding entities. Moon allowed the corporation to be dissolved and public work diminished around 1997.\n\nOver the years, Moon and Shepherd continued to conceive a better approach from another State while an early adviser in Louisiana continued on with the project's development and archival activities.\n\nFor a time in the nineties and early 2000s, a non-certified, non-recognized group, out of Lafayette, LA, conducted business using variations of the name, and \"inducted\" well over a thousand individuals without even keeping a list of those \"inductees.\" That issue is discussed on the LMHOF Official web site in the \"HISTORY\" section. \"All\" inductees of The Louisiana Music Hall of Fame are included in the list below. The \"non-certified\" inductees from that time and dubious effort, are considered to have never been inducted and do not appear on the web site. Even though The Louisiana Music Hall of Fame knows there are well over a thousand individuals who they refer to as \"non-certified\" and knows who many of them are, the LMHOF has chosen not to induct these artists in any \"wholesale\" manner.\n\nIn 2005, after several years of pre-development and archival effort, that early adviser, a music industry veteran, Mike Shepherd of Baton Rouge La., took up the gauntlet, establishing a new corporation with IRS 501c3 certification, re-acquired \"use\" of The Louisiana Music Hall Of Fame name from Louisiana's Secretary Of State (whose predecessor had arguably registered the name to himself in 2004 despite over 20 years of usage at that time) and immediately contacted Moon for continued support and active participation. He got it. Shepherd subsequently reacquired clear registration of the trade name \"The Louisiana Music Hall Of Fame\" from the newly elected and sitting Louisiana Secretary of State Tom Schedler in early 2011.\n\nThe new Louisiana Music Hall Of Fame blueprint envisions future public exhibits but immediately took advantage of the Internet by launching a unique multimedia \"virtual museum\" from a Web site and began honoring Louisiana musicians who have made significant contributions to the music industry. With so much to work on, the decision was made to reach out to the \"living legends\" and surviving family first in an induction plan rather than engage in a time-consuming thematic/historical approach. As Hurricane Katrina ripped New Orleans, it quickly became apparent that digital was the only way to go. An incredible amount of Louisiana's music history washed away overnight. With the cooperation of Governors Kathleen Blanco and Bobby Jindal, the project has quickly become a prototype for the digital age of museums. That web site has now been visited by over 1.5 Million music fans across the world!\n\nPlans continue for brick and mortar facilities throughout the State, along with numerous projects designed to aid in heightened global awareness of Louisiana's artists and music, as well as developmental tools and facilities to assist in the resurgence in Louisiana's classic music genres.\n\nOver 100 fundraising induction concerts have been staged to date, including \"Louisiana's Greatest Hits-Live\" held in Baton Rouge on October 27, 2007 and the Louisiana Music Homecoming on May 16, 2010.\n\nIn the 2010 Session of the Louisiana Legislature, by unanimous vote of both the State Senate and State House of Representatives on SCR 112, The Louisiana Music Hall Of Fame, was commended for its work and further declared as \"the official honors and recognition organization and information resource for and about Louisiana's music, musicians and musical heritage,\" thus becoming the first ever Official Louisiana Music Hall Of Fame after thirty years.\nOn January 27, 2014, The Louisiana Music Hall Of Fame web site reached the 1,000,000 visit plateau and in October 2015 reached 1.5 Million visits.\n\nName and Date Inducted\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20812606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20812606", "title": "Myanmar News Agency", "text": "Myanmar News Agency\n\nThe Myanmar News Agency (; abbreviated MNA) is the official state news agency of the Myanmar government, based in Yangon, Burma. It was established in 1963 after the 1962 Burmese coup d'état as News Agency Burma (NAB). It is currently under the News and Periodical Enterprise of the Ministry of Information. MNA has the sole right to take pictures of government-arranged events, including meetings of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi and government officials. Local Burmese weeklies rely on the MNA for pictures to be carried with their stories.\n\nThe agency is run by the Ministry of Information and censors most national and foreign news. It falls under the News and Periodicals Enterprise, along with three major newspapers.\n\nThe agency uses feeds from Reuters and the Press Trust of India.\n\nThe MNA has news exchange agreements with international news agencies, including Xinhua, ITAR-TASS, Yonhap, Kyodo, Tanjug, ANTARA, KPL and VNA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15975628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15975628", "title": "Radio Budva", "text": "Radio Budva\n\n"}
{"id": "396145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396145", "title": "Sid Field", "text": "Sid Field\n\nSidney Arthur Field (1 April 1904 – 3 February 1950) was an English comedy entertainer who was popular in the 1940s. \n\nHe was born in Ladywood, Birmingham, Warwickshire, son of Albert (a canemaker) and Bertha (a dressmaker). Field spent most of his childhood in Birmingham. He had entertainment in his blood from an early age. As a child he charged his friends \"admission\" to his back garden impression shows. Also, he was busking and performing to the lines at his local cinema dressed as Charlie Chaplin (once being cautioned by police for his activities). Field was later praised by Chaplin himself, at whose parties Field was a regular invitee.\n\nField grew up in Birmingham, where he was educated at Conway Road, Stratford Road and Golden Hillock Road schools, and attended Sunday school at Emmanuel Church, Walford Road. His cousins, \"the Workmans\", performed in concerts at Moseley Road Swimming Baths in the city, where Field made his stage debut, singing \"What A Life\" at the age of nine.\n\nHis first professional engagement, with \"The Kino Royal Juveniles\", at seven shillings and sixpence (37½p) per week, came in July 1916, after his mother responded to an advert in the \"Birmingham Mail\". He later worked as an understudy to ventriloquist Wee Georgie Wood in a Birmingham pantomime, then appeared in review at the Bordesley Palace and the Mission Hall in Church Road, Yardley. To assuage the young Sid's stage fright, Bertha gave him a glass of port to drink: by the age of 13, he was dependent on alcohol.\n\nHe was godfather to John Blackburn.\n\nField was unusual among comedy performers of the day, as his act was a multitude of characters and impersonations, at a time when most variety (vaudeville) acts were \"one trick ponies\". Despite this comedic and acting flair, it was not until he had spent decades touring provincial music halls that Field finally broke into the big time, appearing in London's West End as \"Slasher Green\", the Cockney \"wide boy\" or \"spiv\". He became an \"overnight\" star.\n\nIn \"Strike a New Note\" (1943), \"Strike it Again\" (1944) and \"Piccadilly Hayride\" (1946), he had his audiences roaring with laughter. One reviewer commented that he was the only comedian who had the audience literally \"falling off their seats with laughter\". He was loved for his routines involving a naive approach to the billiards table and the golf course, played with his straight man, Jerry Desmonde. (For example, Desmonde, sternly, as golf pro: \"Address the ball!\" Field: (trying hard) \"...Dear Ball...\") Terry-Thomas acted as compere for the shows, and appeared with Field in one of the sketches.\n\nOn 5 November 1945, Field appeared in the Royal Variety Performance. Appearing again in 1946, he became one of the few artists to make an appearance in two consecutive Royal Performances. 18 months later in 1948, Field was topping the bill at the London Palladium, replacing Mickey Rooney.\n\nField had a starring role in \"That's the Ticket\" (1940) but \"London Town\" (1946) is often referred to as his first film in error. Some of his best remembered sketches are preserved here. Field made one more film, \"The Cardboard Cavalier\" (as Sidcup Buttermeadow), co-starring with Margaret Lockwood. However, the cinematic world was not Field's most effective medium, and his films were neither critical nor commercial successes.\nIt is perhaps because of this lack of recorded material on film or TV, that Field is now largely forgotten. Only the three films and some recorded variety material survive. He inspired a generation of comedians and pioneered the use of character acting in comedy. He was cited as a comic favourite by Tony Hancock (an influence too), Eric Morecambe, Eric Sykes, Frankie Howerd and Tommy Cooper, among many others, and he was described by Bob Hope as being 'probably the best comedian of them all.' Laurence Olivier, during an interview with Kenneth Tynan in 1966, cited Field as a strong influence on his acting, saying, 'Of all people I have ever watched with the greatest delight, I think, was in another field entirely, was Sid Field… I still borrow from him, freely and unashamedly.'\n\nHis only straight role came in 1950 in Mary Chase's play \"Harvey\", (as Elwood P. Dowd, the role played in the 1950 film by James Stewart). On 3 February 1950, during the run of this play, Field died from a heart attack at his home in Richmond, Surrey. He was 45. He is survived by a daughter, Diane Abbott of Hastings in Sussex, England, and a son, John Nicholas Field of Santa Ana, CA, USA, and their children: Katy, Sarah, and Matthew Abbott, and Vita and Joa Chester's-Field. Another daughter, Elaine, is deceased.\n\nLater that month, a memorial service was held at London's St Martin-in-the-Fields, with lessons read by Laurence Olivier and Ted Ray. A midnight matinee benefit for his wife and children, held on 25 June 1951, was attended by the Duchess of Kent, Aneurin Bevan and Noël Coward. The cast list included Jack Hylton, Bud Flanagan, Arthur Askey, Tommy Trinder, all six of the original Crazy Gang, Peter Ustinov, George Robey and many more, totalling over 240.\n\nThere is a blue plaque commemorating Sid Field on the front of 152 Osborn Road, where he grew up, and a memorial in the foyer of the Prince of Wales Theatre in London, which says:To the memory of the great comedian Sid Field, who made his first appearance in the West End at this theatre on 18 March 1943 and who played his last performance here on 2 February 1950.\n\nIn 1994 the actor David Suchet played Sid Field in a stage play of his life (\"What a Performance\"), and in October 2011 Suchet followed this up as the presenter of a BBC4 documentary about Sid Field. In the programme Suchet meets stars such as Eric Sykes, Leslie Phillips and Nicholas Parsons who remember Field's epic stage shows.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1601457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1601457", "title": "Solution concept", "text": "Solution concept\n\nIn game theory, a solution concept is a formal rule for predicting how a game will be played. These predictions are called \"solutions\", and describe which strategies will be adopted by players and, therefore, the result of the game. The most commonly used solution concepts are equilibrium concepts, most famously Nash equilibrium.\n\nMany solution concepts, for many games, will result in more than one solution. This puts any one of the solutions in doubt, so a game theorist may apply a refinement to narrow down the solutions. Each successive solution concept presented in the following improves on its predecessor by eliminating implausible equilibria in richer games.\n\nLet formula_1 be the class of all games and, for each game formula_2, let formula_3 be the set of strategy profiles of formula_4. A \"solution concept\" is an element of the direct product formula_5 \"i.e\"., a function formula_6 such that formula_7 for all formula_8\n\nIn this solution concept, players are assumed to be rational and so strictly dominated strategies are eliminated from the set of strategies that might feasibly be played. A strategy is strictly dominated when there is some other strategy available to the player that always has a higher payoff, regardless of the strategies that the other players choose. (Strictly dominated strategies are also important in minimax game-tree search.) For example, in the (single period) prisoners' dilemma (shown below), \"cooperate\" is strictly dominated by \"defect\" for both players because either player is always better off playing \"defect\", regardless of what his opponent does.\n\nA Nash equilibrium is a strategy profile (a strategy profile specifies a strategy for every player, e.g. in the above prisoners' dilemma game (\"cooperate\", \"defect\") specifies that prisoner 1 plays \"cooperate\" and player 2 plays \"defect\") in which every strategy is a best response to every other strategy played. A strategy by a player is a best response to another player's strategy if there is no other strategy that could be played that would yield a higher pay-off in any situation in which the other player's strategy is played.\n\nThere are games that have multiple Nash equilibria, some of which are unrealistic. In the case of dynamic games, unrealistic Nash equilibria might be eliminated by applying backward induction, which assumes that future play will be rational. It therefore eliminates noncredible threats because such threats would be irrational to carry out if a player was ever called upon to do so.\n\nFor example, consider a dynamic game in which the players are an incumbent firm in an industry and a potential entrant to that industry. As it stands, the incumbent has a monopoly over the industry and does not want to lose some of its market share to the entrant. If the entrant chooses not to enter, the payoff to the incumbent is high (it maintains its monopoly) and the entrant neither loses nor gains (its payoff is zero). If the entrant enters, the incumbent can fight or accommodate the entrant. It will fight by lowering its price, running the entrant out of business (and incurring exit costs – a negative payoff) and damaging its own profits. If it accommodates the entrant it will lose some of its sales, but a high price will be maintained and it will receive greater profits than by lowering its price (but lower than monopoly profits).\n\nIf the entrant enters, the best response of the incumbent is to accommodate. If the incumbent accommodates, the best response of the entrant is to enter (and gain profit). Hence the strategy profile in which the incumbent accommodates if the entrant enters and the entrant enters if the incumbent accommodates is a Nash equilibrium. However, if the incumbent is going to play fight, the best response of the entrant is to not enter. If the entrant does not enter, it does not matter what the incumbent chooses to do (since there is no other firm to do it to - note that if the entrant does not enter, fight and accommodate yield the same payoffs to both players; the incumbent will not lower its prices if the entrant does not enter). Hence fight can be considered as a best response of the incumbent if the entrant does not enter. Hence the strategy profile in which the incumbent fights if the entrant does not enter and the entrant does not enter if the incumbent fights is a Nash equilibrium. Since the game is dynamic, any claim by the incumbent that it will fight is an incredible threat because by the time the decision node is reached where it can decide to fight (i.e. the entrant has entered), it would be irrational to do so. Therefore this Nash equilibrium can be eliminated by backward induction.\n\nSee also:\n\nA generalization of backward induction is subgame perfection. Backward induction assumes that all future play will be rational. In subgame perfect equilibria, play in every subgame is rational (specifically a Nash equilibrium). Backward induction can only be used in terminating (finite) games of definite length and cannot be applied to games with imperfect information. In these cases, subgame perfection can be used. The eliminated Nash equilibrium described above is subgame imperfect because it is not a Nash equilibrium of the subgame that starts at the node reached once the entrant has entered.\n\nSometimes subgame perfection does not impose a large enough restriction on unreasonable outcomes. For example, since subgames cannot cut through information sets, a game of imperfect information may have only one subgame – itself – and hence subgame perfection cannot be used to eliminate any Nash equilibria. A perfect Bayesian equilibrium (PBE) is a specification of players’ strategies \"and beliefs\" about which node in the information set has been reached by the play of the game. A belief about a decision node is the probability that a particular player thinks that node is or will be in play (on the \"equilibrium path\"). In particular, the intuition of PBE is that it specifies player strategies that are rational given the player beliefs it specifies and the beliefs it specifies are consistent with the strategies it specifies.\n\nIn a Bayesian game a strategy determines what a player plays at every information set controlled by that player. The requirement that beliefs are consistent with strategies is something not specified by subgame perfection. Hence, PBE is a consistency condition on players’ beliefs. Just as in a Nash equilibrium no player’s strategy is strictly dominated, in a PBE, for any information set no player’s strategy is strictly dominated beginning at that information set. That is, for every belief that the player could hold at that information set there is no strategy that yields a greater expected payoff for that player. Unlike the above solution concepts, no player’s strategy is strictly dominated beginning at any information set even if it is off the equilibrium path. Thus in PBE, players cannot threaten to play strategies that are strictly dominated beginning at any information set off the equilibrium path.\n\nThe \"Bayesian\" in the name of this solution concept alludes to the fact that players update their beliefs according to Bayes' theorem. They calculate probabilities given what has already taken place in the game.\n\nForward induction is so called because just as backward induction assumes future play will be rational, forward induction assumes past play was rational. Where a player does not know what \"type\" another player is (i.e. there is imperfect and asymmetric information), that player may form a belief of what type that player is by observing that player's past actions. Hence the belief formed by that player of what the probability of the opponent being a certain type is based on the past play of that opponent being rational. A player may elect to signal his type through his actions.\n\nKohlberg and Mertens (1986) introduced the solution concept of Stable equilibrium, a refinement that satisfies forward induction. A counter-example was found where such a stable equilibrium did not satisfy backward induction. To resolve the problem Jean-François Mertens introduced what game theorists now call Mertens-stable equilibrium concept, probably the first solution concept satisfying both forward and backward induction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17037909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17037909", "title": "Speed Racer: The Next Generation", "text": "Speed Racer: The Next Generation\n\nSpeed Racer: The Next Generation is an American animated television series based on the classic Japanese Speed Racer franchise, in which the internal events take place decades after those in the 1967 Japanese series. It is the fourth television adaptation of the franchise, and is executive produced by Lions Gate Entertainment, Larry Schwarz, and Ken Katsumoto. It is the first Nicktoon not to be based on an original property. Animation Collective produced the series, while the Flash character animation was handled by the now-defunct Collideascope Studios as their very last project. The last episode of Season 1 features the voice of NASCAR racer Jeff Gordon, who plays Turbo McCalister.\n\nThis series was partly made to promote the live-action film, and the pilot movie premiered on Nicktoons Network on May 2, 2008, a week before the feature film adaptation was released in theatres. However, both projects were produced independently from one another and featured different generations of \"Speed Racers\" (with the film featuring the original generation), though both featured a Mach 6. Five three-part specials aired on Nickelodeon from March 14, 2009 to April 11, 2009.\n\nA second season began airing on March 24, 2011. The animation, layout, and 3D effects were outsourced to Toonz Entertainment in India for this season. After his death, Peter Fernandez's roles were replaced by Greg Abbey.\n\nPrior to the events of the series, the original Speed Racer has disappeared to protect his family, but the main characters know that he is alive. Initially only one of the original characters, Spritle, has a major role in this show. Speed Racer is seen briefly at the end of \"The Note\" and more recently in \"Plot for Teacher\", and he makes a full appearance in the first episode of Season 2. Another member of the original cast appears at the end of Season 1, Speed Sr.'s original mechanic and friend Sparky, who shows up as an adult posing as a Russian engineer named Chezko (he assumed a false identity to protect himself from Speed's enemies). In the three-part story \"The Secrets of the Engine\", \"Dr. Chezko\" (Sparky) helps finally perfect the engine of the Mach 6, allowing it to run without gasoline. The rest of the original cast are so far unseen, and their whereabouts currently unknown.\n\nGiven the apparent age of Speed Sr., Spritle, and Sparky, it is likely that Mom and Pops Racer, as well as Spritle's living chimpanzee pet Chim-Chim, are likely deceased by the time of the series. Speed Sr.'s girlfriend Trixie is revealed as the mother of Speed Jr. and X, but she plays a radically different role, instead serving as one of the main antagonists of the series.\n\nThe series follows the adventures of an orphan teenager named Speed who dreams of being a famed car racer like the one he is named after. He takes a bus to the elite Racing Academy, founded by the Racer family, and soon experiences the difficulties of fitting in and competing with X, the best racer/student in the school, and Speed Racer's son. Spritle himself is now the headmaster. In the pilot movie, Speed discovers that he is the other son of Speed Racer, meaning that X is his brother.\n\nThrough the rest of the series, Speed and his new allies set out on a quest to get through the courses, discover the mystery of Speed Racer's disappearance, and try and build the Mach 6, a car that captures the spirit and gadgets of the Mach 5 for new generations, and the first car to contain a gasless engine. It is this Eco-friendly design that garners the attention of the oil tycoon Zile Zazic, who wants to destroy the car. It becomes apparent in Season 2 that the Mach 6 also possesses the power to travel through time, which becomes the primary focus for the remainder of the series as the series villains desire to use it for their own gains.\n\nAnother major plot device is the Virtual Track, a race track that transports racers to virtual racing environments known as the Virtual World. School faculty have the ability to add as many of their own obstacles as they wish, complying to school safety regulations. Whenever a racer is defeated in the track, they are automatically dispensed into the real world unharmed. However, like all programs, the virtual track can be infected with viruses or hacked, causing anyone trapped in the Virtual World to be affected.\n\nThe second episode features the rebuilt Mach 5 designed as it appeared in the original anime, only animated in CGI, like all of the other cars in the show's racing sequences. Minor changes have occurred in the Mach Five in this series. Although the function for the homing robot is present, it is redesigned to resemble more of a metal peacock than a sleek, futuristic robot dove. The Deflector is used as the roof of the Mach Five. Also revealed in this show is an ejector's seat underneath the driver's seat in case of emergencies. A parachute was made, but was forgotten to be installed at the time.\n\nIts return is brief, as Zile Zazic destroys it successfully - the original makes a cameo in \"Plot for Teacher\". However, plans for a new car are discovered and soon the protagonists rebuild the Mach Five to form the Mach 6. The Mach 6's engine is not designed to run on gas, which is a crucial story point, even though gas is still used for it through most of the series. It has all the features of the Mach Five, but redesigned or changed in some form or another. For example, the rotary saws are kept, but they're turned into laser saws. Also, the car has become more of a silver color with a fan in front and also includes two functional jets in the back where the fans were, and are used to get out of situations like a tornado ( as seen in the episode 'The Dance') or to help with acceleration. The new car features a transparent, holographic screen (better known as the 'comp') over the dashboard that the driver can use to interact live with his crew, and with other racers. Apparently, Speed mentions it can dispense rubber spiders out the back, and also real spiders, but he has not confirmed this. In recent episodes in Season 2, a new Mach 6 feature has been revealed after the completion of the gasless engine. When the Mach 6 gets up to the speed of 250 mph, an electrical charge causes the car to jump to another location in a matter of seconds. However, this feature can only be used three times before the car can be restarted. It has also been hinted that the Mach 6 has the ability to time travel with the right part for the gasless engine.\n\nThe Mach 6 succeeds the Mach 5 for the rest of the series, and more of the original gadgets were gradually revealed (such as the sludge slick) and used in future episodes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1749808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1749808", "title": "Streets of London (song)", "text": "Streets of London (song)\n\n\"Streets of London\" is a song by Ralph McTell, who first recorded it for his 1969 album \"Spiral Staircase.\" It was not released in the United Kingdom as a single until 1974. The song has been covered by over 200 artists. The song was re-released, on 4 December 2017, featuring McTell with Annie Lennox as a charity single for CRISIS, the Homelessness Charity.\n\nThe song was inspired by McTell's experiences busking and hitchhiking throughout Europe, especially in Paris and the individual stories are taken from Parisians. McTell was originally going to call the song \"Streets of Paris\"—eventually London was chosen, because he realised he was singing about London; also, there was another song called \"The Poor People of Paris\". McTell's song contrasts the common problems of everyday people with those of the homeless, lonely, elderly, ignored and forgotten members of society. In an interview on Radio 5 with Danny Baker on 16 July 2016, McTell said that the market he referred to in the song was Surrey Street Market in Croydon.\n\nMcTell left the song off his debut album, \"Eight Frames a Second\", since he regarded it as too depressing, and did not record it until persuaded by his producer, Gus Dudgeon, for his second album in 1969. A re-recorded version charted in the Netherlands in April 1972, notching up to No. 9 the next month. McTell re-recorded it for the UK single release in 1974. McTell played the song in a fingerpicking style with an AABA chord progression.\n\nIt is often remarked upon that the composition echoes certain musical patterns found in Pachelbel's Canon.\n\nThe song was McTell's greatest commercial success, reaching No. 2 in the UK Singles Chart, at one point selling 90,000 copies a day and winning him the 1974 Ivor Novello Award for Best Song Musically and Lyrically and a Silver disc for record sales.\n\nIn 2017, Ralph McTell re-recorded the song with Annie Lennox and clients of UK national charity Crisis, a charity for single homeless people. This was to mark the 50th anniversary of both the song and the charity.\n"}
{"id": "32884037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32884037", "title": "The Adventures of Algy", "text": "The Adventures of Algy\n\nThe Adventures of Algy is a 1925 Australian film comedy from director Beaumont Smith about a \"silly ass\" Englishman (Claude Dampier) who inherits a sheep station in New Zealand. It is an unofficial follow up to \"Hullo Marmaduke\" (1924), which also starred Dampier.\n\nUnlike most of Smith's silent films, most of the movie survives today.\n\nAlgy (Claude Dampier) is an Englishman who travels to New Zealand to claim a sheep station he has inherited. He falls in love with a neighbour, Kiwi McHill (Bathie Stuart), then travels to Australia. He runs into Kiwi again, using dances she has learned from her Maori friends in a Sydney revue. When he returns to New Zealand he strikes oil on his farm and he and Kiwi are married.\n\n\n\"The Adventures of Algy\" was shot on location in New Zealand and Sydney during the early part of 1925. New Zealand locations included Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Taranaki, and Rotarua (notably the hot springs). Exterior locations in Sydney included Martin Place, Circular Quay, Watson's Bay Gap, the Palace Theatre, and Sydney Harbour (aboard the ferry Kubu). The scene at the Gap focused on a sensational aspect of the story whereby a young girl attempts to throw herself over the cliff. Interior filming took place at Australasian Films' Rushcutters Bay studio. As with Smith and Dampier's previous film, \"Hullo Marmaduke\", \"The Adventures of Algy\" was given a joint world premiere at Sydney's Lyric Wintergarden and Lyceum theatres.\n\nDampier later married his co-star, Billie Carlyle.\n\nReviews for the film were generally positive. Film writers Andrew Pike and Ross Cooper wrote that:\nThe film... reveals a heavy reliance on titles to propel the insubstantial plot along, and frequently the images are little more than illustrations for the printed text.\nSmith was becoming exhausted with film production and concentrated on distribution and exhibition instead over the next eight years. He returned to directing with \"The Hayseeds\" (1933).\n\n"}
{"id": "2046883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2046883", "title": "The Amazing Spider-Man (pinball)", "text": "The Amazing Spider-Man (pinball)\n\nThe Amazing Spider-Man is a pinball game designed by Ed Krynski and released in 1980 by Gottlieb. It is based on the comic book character Spider-Man released by Marvel Comics.\n\nThe machine, designed by Ed Krynski with art by Gordon Morison, was produced by D. Gottlieb & Co. as part of their \"Star Series 80\" line. The first machine came off the assembly line in May 1980.\n\n\"The Amazing Spider-Man\" was the first of Gottlieb's System 80 series of pinball machines and was the second Marvel character licensed by Gottlieb to be represented in a pinball machine (the first being The Hulk).\n\nThe pinball machine featured character poses taken directly from Marvel comics and style guides including Aunt May, Kingpin, Lizard, Scorpion, Vulture, Black Widow, Kraven the Hunter and the Green Goblin.\n\nThe features;\n\nA total of 7,625 machines were produced and are currently sought-after collectors items.\n\nIt was the first of Gottlieb's System 80 design pinball machine.\nIt also was the first Gottlieb pinball, with an \"attract mode\" lighting. In which various playfield lights, alternate between off an on, to make the game more attractive to passerbye, thus encouraging play. It was also the first solid state pinball with the speaker in the backbox (head) instead of the bottom cabinet.\n\nStan Lee, the co-creator of \"Spider-Man\" and public face of Marvel Comics, claimed ownership of one of the first machines off the assembly line and kept it in his Marvel office until he auctioned it as part of his \"Stan Lee collection\" at Heritage Comics Auctions of Dallas, Texas. Lee said that \"Over the years, I have spent countless frustrating yet perversely enjoyable hours attempting to play on it, as have numerous colleagues, friends and business associates (some quite famous, though a combination of modesty, shame and my legendary bad memory prevents me from divulging their names here) during their unrelenting pilgrimages to my office. In fact, I think many of these scions of arts and industry came over JUST to beat me up at pinball. I hope its new owner will be a better player than I am.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58966556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58966556", "title": "The Crash VII Aniversario", "text": "The Crash VII Aniversario\n\nThe Crash VII Aniversario (Spanish for The Crash 7th Anniversary Show) is a professional wrestling supercard event, scripted and produced by the Mexican \"lucha libre\" wrestling company The Crash Lucha Libre, which took place on November 3, 2018 at Auditorio Fausto Gutierrez in The Crash's home town of Tijuana, Baja California. In the main event \"Rebellion Amarilla\" members Garza Jr. and Bestia 666 faced off in a \"Luchas de Apuestas\", hair vs. hair match, with the storyline being that \"Rebellion Amarilla\" claimed everyone else was afraid to take their challenge. In the end Bestia 666 forced Garza Jr. to submit and afterwards had all his hair shaved off as a result.\n\nOn the undercard Willie Mack won the vacant The Crash Heavyweight Championship by defeating Bárbaro Cavernario, Michael Elgin and El Mesías. \"Los Lucha Bros\" (Penta El 0M and The King) defeated \"Nueva Generacio Dinamita\" (El Cuatrero and Sansón) and Reno Scum (Adam Thornstowe and Luster the Legend) to win the vacant The Crash Tag Team Championship and X-Peria defeated Torito Negro (c), Tiago, Baby Star and Rayo Star to win The Crash Junior Championship. The show featured four additional matches\n\nThe Crash 7th Anniversary Show featured eight professional wrestling matches scripted by The Crash with some wrestlers involved in scripted feuds. The wrestlers portray either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that play the part of the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they perform in the ring.\n\n"}
{"id": "20899373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20899373", "title": "The Endless Forest", "text": "The Endless Forest\n\nThe Endless Forest is a multiplayer online game for Microsoft Windows by Belgian studio \"Tale of Tales\". In the game, the player is a deer in a peaceful forest without goals or the ability to chat. Pictograms above registered deer's heads represent their names. Players communicate with one another through sounds and body language.\n\nDuring \"abiogenesis\", every deer runs around, rubs against trees, or sits next to sleeping deer to cast Forest Magic on one another or party under a night sky filled with floral fireworks in a spectacle, created in realtime, by authors whenever the mood hits them. \"The Endless Forest\" can be run as a screensaver or an application.\n\nA notable aspect of \"The Endless Forest\" is the community involvement. The Tale of Tales website has a forum and a community site where many players post their ideas and feedback for the game, which can affect the game's development.\n\nThe creators of \"The Endless Forest\" strived to create an artistic game, a moving painting. Dubbed by its developers as a \"multiplayer online game and social screensaver\", \"The Endless Forest\" is not a mainstream MMORPG – it is highly unlike other MMORPGs The most notable difference between \"The Endless Forest\" and other MMORPGs is the lack of violence and human communication (talking) in-game..\n\nIf the player is registered, he or she will begin the game as a fawn. As a fawn, Forest Magic wears off quickly. In a little over a month, the deer grows up and becomes a stag. Now Forest Magic stays on as long as the deer would like it to.\n\nCommon activities in the Forest are exploring, using the Forest Magic and Forest Actions, sleeping, and swimming. There are also social activities that deer commonly engage in, such as dancing, pool parties, hide and seek, and tag. Deer can also be seen jumping over rocks and logs, or running in herds.\n\nAbiogenesis is a spectacle created by the realtime authors of the game. ABIOGENESIS knows no limits – rocks and cages fall from the sky, disco balls spin, lightning bolts flash, the sky changes color, and rainbows pop up out of nowhere. It is a system that allows Endless Forest authors Auriea Harvey & Michaël Samyn to play god. At any moment they can make it rain, make flowers grow and beasts fly. ABIOGENESIS happens either randomly, whenever they please, or in an organised event, during a live performance. It has also been known that a giant stag will come and visit during an ABIOGENESIS performance...\n\nForest Magic is the main way to change the appearance of one's avatar, but the player cannot change his or her own look (The exceptions being some antlers, and the pelt acquired at the Crying Idol.) Other deer must cast spells on them in order to change their look, and it is up to the player to communicate and ask others to change their appearance for them. Only adult deer can keep the spells cast on them, however, registered deer will have the magic cast on them saved for the next time they log on. The magic wears off on all fawns after a short period of time. Swimming in the pond causes a deer to lose all of the Forest Magic that has been cast on them.\n\nThere are three antler customizations that the player can get by themselves:\n\nThere are two pelts that the player can receive by themselves:\n\nThere is one animal that the player can shapeshift themselves into:\n\nThere are four additional factors that can affect a player's appearance:\n\nBecause \"The Endless Forest\" has no chat box, or any human means of communication, players must resort to an action strip along the bottom of the game. This strip includes many buttons. Deer display the actions provided in order to communicate with each other. These actions can be divided up into three types; basic actions, expressive actions, and forest magic actions. The basic actions are stand/lie down, bleat, listen, jump, and rub a tree. For expression actions there are two other buttons, a blue button (emotions) and an orange button (motions). The blue button includes emotes such as quivering in fear, cocking the head in confusion, bowing in thanks/greeting/respect, or hunching over in sadness. The orange button includes actions such as dancing, rearing up on the hind legs, and shaking the head yes/no. Forest magic actions include casting, obtaining, and discarding magic. When a deer gains the ability to cast a spell on another deer, a button pops up. Each form of magic has its own button that will pop up when the spell is obtained; pelt, antlers, mask, and shapeshifted. For example, if a deer gains the ability to change another deer's pelt color, a gold button with a deer imprint on it pops up in the action strip. If they press this button, they cast the spell. There is also a worship button, which can only be used when near the Twin Gods Statue (see Forest Magic) and a deer shaped button where you can remove the spells the avatar is wearing.\n\n\"The Endless Forest\" consists of seven main areas: \"First Forest\", \"Birch Forest\", the \"Ruin\", the \"Pond\", the \"Old Oak\", the \"Playground\" and the \"Twin Gods Statue\".\n\nThe \"First Forest\" was the first part of the forest to be created, as well as the only section originally released. Its flora consists of poppies, hyacinths, and ferns, while the fauna consists of doves, butterflies, fireflies, and squirrels. Butterflies are seen floating over the hyacinths in the daytime, while fireflies replace them when it becomes nighttime.\n\nThe \"Birch Forest\" (double the size of the First Forest) was introduced in Phase 3. It added more land to roam and explore, as well as new visuals and sounds. The Birch Forest consists of birch trees and sycamores, blue berries and little birds. With the addition of the Birch Forest, little birds can now also rest upon the deers antlers if the player is very quiet. The grass in the Birch Forest is much taller compared to that of the rest of the forest.\n\nThe \"Ruin\" was created as part of an exhibition in Phase 1. Exhibition curator Michel Dewilde invited Tale of Tales to contribute to the fourth edition of the yearly Ename Actueel group art exhibition (September 1, 2005 to October 30, 2005) organized by the Provincial Archeological Museum in the small town of Ename in Belgium. When it was first created, its main focus was on Tardis, a time-and-space-travel device featured in the \"Doctor Who\" television series.\n\nAfter that, the base of the ruin was introduced, resembling the archeological site of a gothic Saint Salvator church. During the exhibition visitors could steer a deer through the forest like the online players can. But when they stopped playing and the deer went to sleep, the soul of this visitor escaped and started floating through the forest. If the player found a soul, a new button would appear in the action strip which could be used to convert this pagan soul. If the players did a good enough job by the end of the day, a grave would be erected near the ruin. If the players failed and the majority of the remaining souls were still unchristened, a pagan idol would show up. Every day of the exhibition, a grave or an idol was added. The size depended on the number of visitors of that day. Now that the exhibition and Tardis is over, the ruins stand exactly as they have been created, left to be seen by the current forest players. Today nothing remains of the once large stone building but its foundations.\n\nThe \"Pond\" was released in Phase 1.5. It was the premiere location for the first ever ABIOGENESIS. Weeping willows, frogs, lily pads, the occasional flower, and some brightly coloured koi fish make up the pond location.\n\nFalling into the pond will cause any deer to lose all of its magic. Without careful footing, all of the players hard earned spells could be lost to the water.\nThe pond splits off into a small river, over which a small bridge has been built. One of the secrets of the forest is the idea of how the bridge came to being.\n\nFurther down the river is the Crying Idol, named for the waterfalls flowing from the statue's eyes. Little red poppies grow around the idol. Players will also get a treat if they end up passing into the idol. Running through the idol will cause the deer to turn red. This red pelt will prohibit other deer from casting more magic onto anyone who wears it, but can easily be 'sneezed' off when they want to get spells again.\n\nThe \"Old Oak\" is a large, hollowed-out tree where deer come to rest, relax and rejuvenate. It is a comfortable place. Often when it is raining in the Forest, deer can be seen sleeping in the warm Old Oak. The Old Oak's most notable trait is the low humming sound emitted when the player travels close enough to it.\n\nThe \"Playground\" was released in Phase 3, and was given its name by the players on the community forum. The Playground consists of three large boulders and many other rocks. Deer have the ability to walk, climb and jump over the rocks. If a deer sits quietly enough, little birds will perch on the deers antlers, but they will fly away upon player induced movement of the deer.\n\nSometimes candles appear on all three boulders, allowing the deer to place candles on their antlers.\n\nThere is a set of three suitcase-shaped rocks arranged in a triangle formation nicknamed \"The Deermuda Triangle\". The area's name was generated completely by two players, Griffinsong and Tae, and is not considered an official area of the forest. Some players claim that mysterious things happen in this area, while others have spent time there and come out without any harm done.\n\nThe Deermuda has become widely accepted by players. Game creator Michaël Samyn commented, \"We think that's great. It is exactly how we see storytelling in games: we plant some seeds but the players grow the flowers.\"\n\nThe \"Twin Gods Statue\" is central to all ABIOGENESIS performances. During an ABIOGENESIS the two halves of the statue separate and follow the creators' avatars though the forest. A player can activate the ABIOGENESIS camera, which focuses on the Twin Gods statue, by pressing the keys CTRL + W. In addition, if a player uses the 'pray' action at the Twin Gods statue the deer avatar receives a temporary devout pelt. Players will often leave their deer avatars sleeping next to the Twin Gods statue.\n\nDe Drinkplaats (The Watering Hole) is a magical place where deer gather to drink from an endlessly running source. When the player enters the ring of mushrooms, all pelts and masks are shed and the player becomes one with nature. The more players gather, the more forest animals come to witness the idyllic scene. Drinking from the water turns the deer into one of these animals, of varying sizes. Two new animals were introduced for De Drinkplaats: a white rabbit and a black crow.\n\nDe Drinkplaats was added to The Endless Forest in response to a commission by Christophe De Jaeger for the Fantastic Illusions exhibition. Fantastic Illusions is a show of work by contemporary Chinese and Belgian artists that refers to the romantic desire to step into a picture and become immersed in it (\"Die Sehnsucht, im Bild zu sein\"). The exhibition ran in the Shanghai MoCA from September to October 2009, where visitors played The Endless Forest on two computers installed especially for the exhibit. The installation opened in the Kortrijk Broelmuseum in November 2009. The Broelmuseum has a fine collection of 16th-century paintings by the Flemish painter Roelandt Savery, and one of Savery's paintings, entitled \"De Drinkplaats\" (The Watering Hole), served as the direct inspiration for this addition to the Forest. The actual shape of the fountain was taken from a real-life watering hole in the garden of the museum.\n\nMany objects in the forest are clearly sculpted from stone. Examples include the idol of the man at the source of the river, The Ruins, the graves, the cage beside the ruins, the bridge and the forest god statues. Who or what created these artifacts is a mystery. The game creators have yet to respond to queries into the origin of these items, or to the possibility of creatures in addition to the deer living out of sight.\n\nThe game's prototype was originally commissioned by the Musee d'Art Moderne Grand-Duc Jean, Luxembourg, in 2003. Phase One was first released on September 12, 2005. This Phase included the Ruins and the ability to hop. On February 7, 2006, the streaming beta and beta screensaver version 1.5 was released, with the special addition of ABIOGENESIS. On February 13, an update of the beta version, version 1.5 beta 12, was released. It was in this version that the Pond was first introduced into the forest. It was then that the first series of ABIOGENESIS occurred on the February 15, 16 and 18 during the ARTEFACT festival in Leuven.\n\n2 months later, Phase Two was launched on April 26, 2006 with greatly improved graphics and sound. With the release of Phase Two came the use of Forest Magic, the ability to change the avatar's appearance, a handful of emotes to express oneself, a giant tree known as the Old Oak, and an update to the ABIOGENESIS system. On September 29, 2006, version 2.1 was released and of the most important features of the game, the Fawn, was added. The Fawn was created for Pixel Me, a traveling art exhibition for young teenagers in Belgium. The show ran from October 2006 to November 2008, stopping in cultural centers across the country. On January 16, 2007 the artistic game project reached 10,000 registered players and had been downloaded over 64,000 times since its first release in September 2005. During this time \"The Endless Forest\" was being supported by Musée d’Art Moderne Grand-Duc Jean in Luxemburg, Vlaams Audiovisueel Fonds and Design Vlaanderen. On June 21, 2007 the players said goodbye to Phase 2 with the last ABIOGENESIS of the phase. It was during this Summer Solstice ABIOGENESIS that \"The Endless Forest\" experienced a record breaking attendance, over 80 deer at one time, much more than the little server could handle.\n\nThe Phase 3 beta was released in late August 2007, when the game jumped to over 100,000 downloads and 17,000 registered players, the number of active players per month exceeding 1,500. On September 24, 2007, Phase 3 was officially released for download. In this version, new players began playing as fawns for a little over a month, which after that they grew into full grown stags. It was also in this phase that two new areas were created; The Birch Forest and The Playground, consisting of a bunch of large boulders. Phase 3 was also the first to be created with Quest3D.\nOn October 24, 2007, \"The Endless Forest\" crossed 20,000 registered players and over 100,000 downloads.\nVersion 3.1 was released for Halloween, which consisted of 3 new sets (the Day of the Dead Set, the Crying Mask Set, and the Zombie Deer Set) so players could dress up for the spooky holiday. Version 3.2 was released in honour of Mardi Gras, where 8 new sets, designed by players and textured by students at the Howest college in Kortrijk, Belgium were added to the game. Since January 16, 2012, the latest Version 3.41 is available. \nOn March 9, 2008, \"The Endless Forest\" reached 25,000 registered players and was downloaded almost 200,000 times\nDespite the game's growing popularity, the funding was becoming a problem. The game's funding was denied by Flemish Audiovisual Fund again, it had been denied in Phase 3 as well, leaving Tale of Tales with no possible way of applying for funding in Belgium. Development of \"The Endless Forest\" was at a standstill while Tale of Tales worked on their new game, \"The Path\"—which itself has been partly supported by the Flemish Ministry of Culture, and was released on March 18, 2009.\n\nAuriea Harvey and Michaël Samyn have general plans for what \"The Endless Forest\" is to become. They plan to continue the development of \"The Endless Forest\" in a way that suits themselves and their players. All plans go through the players to get their feedback and reaction. The game is based hugely on community involvement.\n\nThe general plan states:\n\n\"There's two main facets to the interaction design of \"The Endless Forest\". On the one hand, it is sort of a magical deer-RPG or simulation game and on the other a stage for virtual performances (kind of an extreme form of Dungeon Mastering).\"\n\nYou are a stag\n\n\"Every player starts the game as a young male deer. An older female (your mother) will guide you through the beginning of the game. As you keep playing, you will grow and your antlers will take on a unique shape.\"\n\"There will be magical spells to acquire in the forest. A peculiarity of these is that you cannot cast them on yourself. Only on other deer. These spells can make the game a lot more interesting, so it will be important to find someone who can cast them on you.\"\n\"Your deer avatar will live for a full year. If you want to continue playing with all the abilities you've gathered, you will need to procreate. There are plenty of attractive hinds in the forest. Perhaps you can persuade them. But better make sure you chase away your competitors with those awesome antlers of yours.\"\n\nWe are god\n\n\"Every once in a while we, Auriea Harvey & Michaël Samyn, the authors and directors of this project, will intervene with one thing or another. Sometimes this may be an elaborate intrusion or addition that impacts life in the forest dramatically. At other times, small things will be added. This way, the forest will remain a living universe where you never know what to expect.\"\n\"There will also be live events. Often things that are tied to real-life performances or exhibitions. Usually a remainder of these occasions will be left in the forest, but it will be most interesting to witness and participate in the event when it happens.\"\n\nSince its first release, \"The Endless Forest\" has received much positive feedback from the public. \"The Endless Forest\" has been invited to exhibitions such as Le Cube Festival, Game/Play, Bradford Animation Festival, IETM Autumn Plenary Meeting, VELOCITY festival, Play Cultures, Els límits de la natura (\"The Limits of Nature\") at Centre d'Art La Panera, Gameworld at LABoral Centro de Arte y Creación Industriale, Night Garden at Mediamatic, Mediaterra, Pixel Me, Edge Conditions at the San Jose Museum of Art, and more. In addition, \"The Endless Forest\" has been featured in many magazines, such as GEE magazine, Germany, as well as the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Game also has been featured in TV programs, such as \"Bez Vinta\" on Gameland TV. Other remarks center upon the game's unfinished nature, as well as hope for what may lie in store for the future.\n\n1 in 5 players discovered the game through fanart posted on deviantART.\n\n\"The Endless Forest\" has received negative feedback relating to its lack of traits considered essential to MMO games, and to video games in general.\n\n\nOther sites\n"}
{"id": "11617045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11617045", "title": "The Free Edinburgh Fringe Festival", "text": "The Free Edinburgh Fringe Festival\n\nThe Free Edinburgh Fringe Festival is a programme of free entry events that takes place at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, the world's largest arts festival, each August. It is organised by the comedy promoter Laughing Horse, although it includes shows of different genres, and is one of several \"free\" festivals taking place in the city at that time, most of which incorporate the words free, fringe and/or festival in their title, often leading to confusion. \n\nFree Edinburgh Fringe Festival venues are commonly independently run bars and nightclubs which create performance spaces in their premises for the duration of the Fringe Festival. Performers are allocated timeslots for free on the condition that they do not charge audiences an entry fee to watch the show. Although audience members are asked to make voluntary contributions at the end of the shows to help pay the performers expenses.\n\nGenerally, Edinburgh Fringe shows are self-financing and the average run at the fringe can cost a performer £5000 in venue hire fees, publicity and accommodation. The aim of The Free Festival is to provide performers and festival goers with a cheaper alternative.\n\nPredominantly the shows are stand up comedy and sketch comedy but in recent years there has been an increase in theatre, cabaret, music, storytelling and children’s shows.\n\nThe Free Festival promotes comedy, theatre, music, cabaret, opera, musicals, film, children’s shows, events and art displays – programmed by experienced producers in each area. Award winning performers and full runs of shows from the likes of Pappy’s Fun Club, John Gordillo, Lewis Schaffer, Nick Wilty, Sol Bernstein, Steve Day, Bob Slayer, Nik Coppin and Ivor Dembina have appeared in previous years, plus guest appearances in compilation shows from well known performers such as Alan Carr, Scott Capurro, Richard Herring, Brendon Burns, Marcus Brigstocke, Reg D. Hunter, Dan Antopolski and Paul Foot.\n\nThe Free Festival has received coverage from Sky News, BBC, Culture Show, The Guardian, The Times, The Scotsman, The List, Metro, Chortle and many other local publications. In 2009 75% of Free Festival shows were reviewed 3 star and above, with thirty 4-star and 20 5-star reviews.\n\nIn 2010 the Free Festival produced over 300 shows at the fringe.\n\nImran Yusuf's Free Festival show became the first non-ticketed show at the Edinburgh Festival to be nominated for a main Comedy Award for Best Newcomer\n\nIn 2009 there were a total of 2,098 shows at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe and 235 of these (over 11%) were part of the Free Festival making it the largest promoter of free events at the Fringe, and after the Edinburgh Comedy Festival the second largest promoter of Comedy).\n\n\nIn 2007 the BBC produced a radio comedy pilot based on Ian Fox's 2006 Free Fringe Show The Butterfly Effect\n\nEdinburgh venues that are part of the Free Edinburgh Fringe Festival:\n\nNew Venues in 2010\n\nOther Venues\n\n\nThe Free Festival was set up by Alex Petty of Laughing Horse, who has organised free venues at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe since 2004. It was originally in a partnership with The Free Fringe founded by Peter Buckley Hill but split away from that organisation in 2006.\n\nIn 2011 Bob Slayer, a performer and previous booker for the Free Festival set up independent fringe promoter Heroes of Fringe in a former Free Festival venue: Heroes @ The Hive. The move was amicable and the two organisations maintain a working relationship. In 2013 Heroes added a second venue Heroes @ Bob & Miss Behave's Bookshop. Heroes shows have won three Malcolm Hardee Awards and been nominated for several other awards. In 2013 Adrienne Truscott won the Edinburgh Fringe Awards (formerly the Perrier) panel prize for spirit of the Fringe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41538643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41538643", "title": "The Headies", "text": "The Headies\n\nThe Headies (formerly known as the Hip Hop World Awards) are an accolade established in 2006 by the \"Hip Hop World Magazine\" of Nigeria to recognize outstanding achievement in the Nigerian music industry. The annual ceremony features performances by established and promising artists. It is broadcast live on HipTV to television viewers across Nigeria. The 2006 and 2007 editions of The Headies were held at the Muson Center in Onikan, Lagos State. From 2010 through 2012, The Headies were held at the Eko Hotel and Suites in Victoria Island, Lagos. Several media personalities in Nigeria have hosted the annual ceremony, including Darey Art Alade, D'banj, Dakore Egbuson, Banky W., Rita Dominic, M.I, Tiwa Savage and Dr SID.\n\nThe image of The Headies was created by Ayo Animashaun, the founder of the awards, and drawn by Matthias Aragbada. The first Headie plaque was done by Jide Adewoye. It represents \"the image and the shout of a young, vibrant man whose talent can challenge that of Nas, Mode 9, Kanye West and Jay Z combined but who has almost lost confidence in his abilities in the face of daunting odds presented by the Nigerian environment.\" In 2008, the plaque was redone in the United Kingdom. It was plated with 21 carat gold. The new plaque is a mixture of resin, copper, steel, marble and gold.\n\n2006: The first annual Hip Hop World Awards were held on 10 March 2006, at the Shell Hall of the MUSON Centre in Onikan, Lagos. It was hosted by Darey Art Alade and tagged with the caption: \"The revolution is here\". DJ Jimmy Jatt, Keke Ogungbe and Dayo 'D1' Adeneye won the Hip Hop World Hall of Fame award. P-Square and Jude Okoye eclipsed their colleagues that year, taking home five awards.\n\n2007: The second annual Hip Hop World Awards were also held at the Shell Hall of the MUSON Centre on 17 March 2007; it was hosted by D'banj and Tana Adelana. The theme for the year was: \"The Best Gets Better\". The Hall of Fame accolade was awarded to Eddie Lawani and Ben Bruce. D'banj's \"Why Me\" won the Song of the Year award, while Cobhams Asuquo took home the award for Producer of the Year. Rapper Mode 9 took home two awards, making him the biggest awardee of the night.\n\n2008: The third annual Hip Hop World Awards experienced a few upgrades. The venue was moved from the MUSON Centre to Planet One in Maryland, Lagos. Comedian Basketmouth and actress Dakore Egbuson hosted the ceremony. The founders and promoters of the accolade chose the theme \"Change has to Change\". The nominees' party was held at Babylon, a private beach resort. In 2008, the plaque of The Headies were plated with 21 carat gold. Nigerian-French singer Aṣa won four awards, including Recording of the Year and Best Female Vocal Performance. Naeto C, Rooftop MCs, Cobhams Asuquo, Kween, Jo'zi, and P-Square were among the performers who graced the stage. Wande Coal was awarded a car for winning the first ever Next Rated award.\n\n2009: The fourth annual Hip Hop World Awards were held at the International Conference Centre in Abuja, Nigeria. It was the first time that the annual ceremony was held outside of Lagos. Banky W. and Kemi Adetiba were the hosts. Omawumi was awarded a new car for winning the Next Rated category. The nominees' party for the fourth edition was hosted at Ajibogun, a village in Ogun State. Phillip Trimnell took home the Hall of Fame award. 9ice won three awards, including Artiste of the Year.\n\n2010: The fifth annual Hip Hop World Awards were held at the Eko Hotels and Suites on 29 May 2010. No one hosted the show. The nominations' announcement was streamed over the internet. Wande Coal took home four awards, the notable being Artiste of the Year. Da Grin received a posthumous award for Best Rap Album. General Hype dedicated his performance to the departed rapper.\n\n2011: The sixth annual Hip Hop World Awards, hosted by Rita Dominic and ELDee, were held at the Eko Hotels and Suites on 22 October 2011. The name Hip Hop World Awards was revamped into The Headies, a name derived from \"Headie\" (the name for the 21 carat gold-plated Hip Hop World Award plaque). The theme song for the six edition of the award, titled \"Breaking from the Norm\", was recorded by Wizkid, Ice Prince and Waje. The song was produced by Samklef and briefed at The Headies Secretariat. Wizkid won the Next Rated category for the song \"Holla at Your Boy\". He was awarded a 2012 Hyundai Sonata at the Silverbird Galleria in Victoria Island, Lagos. 2 Face Idibia walked home with three plaques, including the Artiste of the Year plaque.\n\n2012: The seventh annual The Headies were held on 20 October 2012, at the Eko Hotels and Suites. It was hosted by rapper M.I and singer Omawumi. P-Square, along with their elder brother Jude Engees Okoye, took home a total of 4 awards. Femi Kuti won the Hall of Fame award.\n\n2013: The eighth annual The Headies were held at the Oriental Hotel in Lagos on 26 December 2013. It was hosted by Tiwa Savage and Dr SID. Olamide, Phyno, Davido, Sean Tizzle and Waje took home awards for their contribution to the Nigerian Music Industry. Olamide took home three awards and was the biggest awardee of the night. Veteran Fuji artist Wasiu Ayinde Marshall was inducted into the Headies' Hall of Fame. Harrysong's tribute song to Nelson Mandela, titled \"Mandela\", won the Most Downloaded Callertune award. Nikki Laoye's tearful acceptance speech as she won the award for \"Best Vocal Performance (Female)\" was also a major talking point of the event, as she revealed that she took a break from music after the loss of her father, and she dedicated the award to the memory of her father to a loud ovation.\n\n2014: The ninth annual The Headies were held on 14 December 2014, at the Eko Hotel and Suites in Victoria Island, Lagos. The show was hosted by Toke Makinwa and Basketmouth. It was initially scheduled to hold on 25 October 2014. The show was themed \"Feel the Passion\". Kcee, Olamide and Phyno led the nominations with 5 each. Tiwa Savage, Oritse Femi and The Mavins followed closely with four. Yemi Alade received a total of three nominations in the categories: Song of the Year, Best Pop Single and Next Rated. Olamide, Patoranking and Davido each took home two awards apiece. Don Jazzy won the Producer of the Year plaque, while Sir Victor Uwaifo got the Hall of Fame recognition.\n\n2015: The tenth annual The Headies were held on 1 January 2016, at the Landmark Events Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos. On 28 December 2015, the organizers of the awards announced the postponement of the ceremony two days before it was scheduled to hold. Themed \"Flip The Script\", the event was hosted by Bovi and Kaffy. Olamide received a total of four awards from eight nominations, while Timi Dakolo received three. Wizkid won two awards from seven nominations. The Hall of Fame recognition went to 2face Idibia and the Special Recognition Award was given to Don Jazzy. Reekado Banks' Next Rated win made music critics challenge the \"fairness of the awards\", and vocal disapproval from Olamide, who tilted towards his label mate, Lil Kesh winning.\n\n2016: The eleventh edition of The Headies took place on 22 December at Eko Convention Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. Kiss Daniel, Olamide and Wizkid were among the top winners. Mr Eazi won the next rated category, and got a new car. Solid Star aired his discontent at not being among the nominees, while Tekno Miles, rejected his nomination for being insincere. The award ceremony did not hold in 2017.\n\n2017: The award ceremony did not hold in 2017.\n\n2018: The 12th edition was held on 6 May at Eko Convention Center. Davido and Simi (singer) won the most awards with 3. The organization, pacing, sound, timing and production was regarded as being better than previous editions.\n\n4 and up, updated to the tenth edition (2015).\n"}
{"id": "47049854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47049854", "title": "The Meg", "text": "The Meg\n\nThe Meg is a 2018 science fiction action thriller film directed by Jon Turteltaub with a screenplay by Dean Georgaris, Jon Hoeber, and Erich Hoeber, loosely based on the 1997 book \"\" by Steve Alten. The film stars Jason Statham, Li Bingbing, Rainn Wilson, Ruby Rose, Winston Chao, and Cliff Curtis. The film follows a group of scientists who encounter a megalodon shark while on a rescue mission at the floor of the Pacific Ocean.\n\nWalt Disney Studios originally purchased the film rights to the book in the 1990s, but after several years in development hell, the rights landed at Warner Bros. The film was eventually greenlit in 2015. Turteltaub and much of the cast joined by September 2016, and filming began the following month in New Zealand and ended in Sanya, China in January 2017.\n\nA Chinese-American co-production, \"The Meg\" was released in both countries on August 10, 2018, in RealD 3D. It has grossed over $527 million worldwide and received mixed reviews from critics, with some describing it as an entertaining B-movie and others calling it \"neither good enough nor bad enough\" to be fun.\n\nA rescue team led by Jonas Taylor is saving a group of sailors trapped inside a sunken nuclear submarine when Jonas sees the hull of the submarine being damaged by an unknown creature. Two rescuers are stuck in the damaged submarine and say their return to the rescue submersible will take a few minutes. Taylor leaves them behind as he is afraid they will all die if they wait. As they leave, the damaged sub explodes. Taylor's claim is that a giant sea creature caused the disaster. He is dismissed by his teammate Dr. Heller, who believes Taylor was affected with pressure-induced psychosis and blames Jonas for the loss of their friends.\n\nFive years later, billionaire Jack Morris meets Dr. Minway Zhang at the underwater research facility \"Mana One\", which Morris finances. Zhang and his daughter, Suyin, an oceanographer, are supervising a mission to explore what may be a deeper section of the Marianas trench, concealed by a thermocline cloud of hydrogen sulfide. The mission is being conducted by Lori (Taylor's ex-wife), Toshi, and The Wall in a submersible. The mission appears to be going well until a very large creature hits the submersible, causing it to lose contact with Mana One.\n\nJames \"Mac\" Mackreides, another crew member at the station, suggests sending Taylor down to attempt a rescue, citing the similarity to his story. Despite Heller's objections, Zhang and Mac decide to travel to Thailand to recruit Taylor anyway. Suyin attempts the rescue herself after receiving a signal from submerisble, but a colossal squid intervenes. Before it can destroy her craft, a massive shark appears and kills it. Agreeing to help, Taylor reaches the trapped submersible, saving Lori and The Wall. However, when the giant shark returns, Toshi sacrifices himself by closing the hatch door and detaching the rescue vessel. But before he did that, Toshi makes sure that the letter to his wife will be given by putting it inside The Wall's pocket. This allows Taylor, Lori, and The Wall to escape safely while he diverts the shark's attention to his sub, causing it to be driven into a thermal vent, causing an explosion.\n\nBack at Mana One, the crew discovers that the shark is a Megalodon, the largest shark ever known, believed to be extinct for millions of years. Meanwhile, Suyin's daughter, Meiying, goes to the large glass leading to a beautiful underwater view of the ocean, and sees the Megalodon through the glass, and is petrified. When Suyin comes down with Jonas, they see a whale being eaten alive by the massive shark. The crew then realize that it has escaped from the depths of the trench by swimming through a hole in the thermocline created by the thermal vent explosion, briefly raising the temperature enough for it to safely pass. The group decides to track and poison the Megalodon, which they succeed in doing. While injecting the Megalodon with etorphine, Suyin's oxygen mask gets compromised, but Taylor revives her with CPR. Despite initial success, Taylor comments that the teeth don't match up with the previous attack. Shortly after, a second, more colossal Megalodon emerges from the water, devours The Wall and the smaller Megalodon, and capsizes the boat. It also devours Dr. Heller, who saves Jaxx's life by luring it to himself. The surviving crew returns to Mana One in two dinghies, but Dr. Zhang succumbs and dies of his injuries. Morris announces that he has informed local governments and naval forces, but it is out of their hands. He dismissed the whole crew and advised them to evacuate in the morning. \n\nAt nightfall, Morris attempts to destroy the Megalodon himself by ordering a helicopter crew to drop modified depth charges at it, citing that the creature's actions could result in lawsuits. He approaches the carcass of the supposed Megalodon in a boat but discovers it's a whale. When the Megalodon approaches, the boat accelerates, causing Morris to fall overboard and be eaten by the Megalodon. Taylor and the remaining Mana One crew discover Morris' deception and resolve to track and kill the shark, only to realize that it is en route to a crowded beach on the Sanya Bay. \n\nThe Megalodon kills several beachgoers before the Mana One crew plays audio of a whale call to divert the shark's attention towards them. Taylor and Suyin attempt to destroy the megalodon with rigged torpedoes, to no avail, and in the process, Taylor's submersible is severely damaged. Taylor manages to cut the megalodon with parts of his sub and stab it in the eye with a harpoon. Due to the presence of blood, multiple sharks in the area notice the blood and devour the Megalodon, killing it. During the fight, Suyin was able to evacuate everyone to a boat where a Chinese couple is getting married. Taylor gets on the boat, and he and Suyin consider taking a vacation to celebrate their triumph.\n\n\nThe rights to the novel were initially acquired by Disney's Hollywood Pictures in 1996. Around that time, Tom Wheeler was hired to adapt the book into a screenplay, but, having decided that his script wasn't good enough, the studio hired Jeffrey Boam to write a new draft. Boam's script was later rejected for the same reason. By 1999 the project had stalled and the rights reverted to Steve Alten, the book's author.\n\nIn 2005, reports surfaced that the project was being developed by New Line Cinema, with an estimated budget of $75 million, and a slated release of summer 2006. Names attached to the production included Jan de Bont as director, Guillermo Del Toro as producer and Shane Salerno as screenwriter. However, New Line later cancelled the project due to budgetary concerns. The rights reverted to Alten again, but the film remained in development hell.\n\nIn 2015, it was announced that the film was now moving forward at Warner Bros., with a new script written by Dean Georgaris. By June of that year, Eli Roth was reported to be in talks to direct, but, due to creative differences, Roth was replaced by Jon Turteltaub in early 2016. Jason Statham and much of the cast joined in August and September 2016.\nPrincipal photography on the film began on October 13, 2016, in West Auckland, New Zealand. Filming ended on January 4, 2017, in Sanya City of Hainan, China.\nVisual effects were done by \"Sony Imageworks\", \"Image Engine\" and \"Scanline VFX\".\nThe visual effects team was challenged with not only designing a previously undiscovered prehistoric giant shark, but also designing the underwater environments and atmospherics, including realistic coral reefs, bubbles, and other sea life.\n\nReleased by Gravity Pictures in China and by Warner Bros. Pictures in the United States, \"The Meg\" was originally scheduled to open March 2, 2018. Warner and Gravity then said that the film would be released during the 2018 Chinese New Year period in China, a week-long annual holiday that kicked off on February 16, 2018. The film was later pushed back to its eventual date of August 10, 2018, in 3D and IMAX.\n\nThe first official trailer was released on April 9, 2018. The studio spent $140 million on global prints and advertisement for the film.\n\n\"The Meg\" was released for digital download on October 30, 2018, and on Ultra HD Blu-ray, Blu-ray and DVD on November 13.\n\n\"The Meg\" has grossed $143 million in the United States and Canada, and $384.8 million in other territories, for a total worldwide gross of $527.8 million, against a production budget between $130–178 million.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, \"The Meg\" was released alongside \"Slender Man\" and \"BlacKkKlansman\", and was originally projected to gross $20–22 million from 4,118 theaters in its opening weekend. The film made $4 million from Thursday night previews, leading analysts to predict it would outperform its low-$20 million projections. After making $16.5 million on its first day, weekend estimates were raised to $40 million. It went on to debut to $45.4 million, topping the box office and marking the best solo opening of Statham's career, as well as Turteltaub. It made $21.5 million in its second weekend and $13 million in its third, finishing second behind \"Crazy Rich Asians\" both times.\n\nIn other territories, the film debuted to $101.5 million from 96 countries, for a worldwide opening of $146.9 million. In China, a co-producer of the film, it grossed $50.3 million from 12,650 screens, ranked 3 in the opening weekend. Other top openings were Mexico ($6.2 million), Russia ($5 million), the United Kingdom ($4.4 million), Spain ($2.4 million) and the Philippines ($2 million).\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 45% based on 240 reviews, and an average rating of 5.4/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"The Meg\" sets audiences up for a good old-fashioned B-movie creature feature, but lacks the genre thrills -- or the cheesy bite -- to make it worth diving in.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 46 out of 100 based on 46 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B+\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nOwen Gleiberman of \"Variety\" gave the film a mixed review, calling it \"neither good enough -- nor bad enough,\" and writing, \"\"The Meg\", a rote sci-fi horror adventure film that features a shark the size of a blue whale, comes on like it wants to be the mother of all deep-sea attack movies. But it's really just the mother of all generically pandering, totally unsurprising \"Jaws\" ripoffs.\" In a more positive review, Alex Hudson from \"Exclaim!\" said the film succeeded nicely on modest terms; \"As pulpy action films go, this is the best blockbuster about prehistoric monsters you'll see this summer. Sorry, \"\".\" Scott Mendelson of \"Forbes\" was impressed by the film's special effects and called it \"a polished B movie that delivers the goods,\" while IGN's William Bibbiani praised the performances of the cast, particularly Statham. Writing for \"The Hollywood Reporter\", Simon Abrams said the film was \"refreshingly unpretentious\" and \"a breath of fresh air\" compared to the \"Sharknado\" series.\n\nIn April 2018, Jason Statham said a \"Meg\" sequel would happen if the film did well with the public, saying \"I think it's like anything in this day and age — if it makes money, there's obviously an appetite to make more money. And if it doesn't do well, they'll soon sweep it under the carpet. But that's the way Hollywood works.\" That August, Steve Alten said \"My feeling has always been that this is a billion dollar franchise if it was done right. But to be done right you had to get the shark right, get the cast right, get the tone right. And Warner Bros. have nailed it completely. The producers have nailed it.\"\n\nIn October 2018, executive producer Catherine Xujun Ying announced a sequel was in the early stages of development. Alten said in his September 2018 newsletter that he will be asking for more creative control on the sequel.\n\n"}
{"id": "19451477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19451477", "title": "The Punisher: No Mercy", "text": "The Punisher: No Mercy\n\nThe Punisher: No Mercy is a first-person shooter video game that was released on July 2, 2009 on the PSN Store. The game was pulled from PSN as of 2011 due to licensing expiring between Marvel and Zen Studios.\n\nThe game is an arena based first person shooter, with four arenas available at launch including New York, Docks and Factories. The player is able to carry three weapons at a time to convey a sense of realism. The story mode consists of four matches played on different maps with different game types. Before playing, players are required to select a mode which will advantage the player. The game includes local multiplayer and online play, which contains deathmatch, one vs many and co-op. The player is not able to drive vehicles. There is a total of eight playable characters, each with their own unique abilities. The single-player game mode includes story scenes featuring original artwork by Mike Deodato.\n\nActing on a tip provided by his ally Budianski, the Punisher stakes out the New York City docks, where Barracuda and Bushwacker are overseeing the importation of goods smuggled out of Symkaria. The Punisher attacks the villains, and receives unexpected backup from Silver Sable, who flees once all of the criminals, save Barracuda, have been killed. The wounded Barracuda admits to working for Jigsaw, and is then shot in the head by the dead Bushwacker's malfunctioning bio-gun.\n\nFollowing a clue left by Jigsaw, the Punisher is led to Finn Cooley, who injects him with a Symkarian drug. The Punisher breaks Cooley's neck, and is confronted by a mob of homeless people (hired, drugged, and armed by Jigsaw) who he hallucinates are past enemies and allies, such as Microchip and Jenny Cesare. The Punisher massacres the vagrants, and is snapped back to reality by Silver Sable, who leaves him to continue his mission on his own, while mentioning that she is \"meeting up with some friends tonight\".\n\nThe Punisher locates Jigsaw's lair, which is full of Jigsaw doubles. The Punisher slaughters the impostors, and is subdued by the real Jigsaw. As Jigsaw taunts and prepares to kill the Punisher, the building is rocked by an explosion, which distracts Jigsaw, giving the Punisher the chance to stab him in the head. The source of the blast is revealed to be Silver Sable, who orders the Punisher to surrender while holding him at gunpoint with a S.H.I.E.L.D. team that includes Nick Fury, Dum Dum Dugan, Outlaw, and Black Widow. The game ends as the screen flashes, \"To Be Continued...\"\n\n\n\nThe game holds an aggregated rating of 47 out of 100 at Metacritic, and 49.19% at GameRankings.\n\nGameSpot gave the game a score of 4.5 out of 10, criticizing its short length and difficulty of unlocking. IGN gave it 4.2 out of 10, concluding, \"The Punisher: No Mercy is a pretty bad game all around. (...) There's just not really anything to like here, unfortunately.\" \"PlayStation Official Magazine UK\", however, gave the game 7 out of 10, stating, \"It's definitely playable, and a respectable value at a penny under seven quid.\" The game's highest rating came from The Sixth Axis, which gave the game a score of 8/10, concluding \"Its replay value is extremely high, and although you’ll unlikely play it for huge stretches of time a couple of rounds with a few friends is incredibly entertaining.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39048924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39048924", "title": "The Vessel", "text": "The Vessel\n\nThe Vessel is a British comedy web series created and written by Chloe Seddon, Phillip Whiteman and Giovanni Bienne. The series is broadcast on the Internet and premiered on October 21, 2012. Currently 10 episodes have been made and the show can be found distributed across the web on platforms including Blip and YouTube. The Vessel Series follows Kim (Lily Brown) and her two best friends, Rory (Giovanni Bienne) and Mike (Phillip Whiteman), as they start a family. Rory and Mike are a gay couple who have decided they want to have a baby. Rory and Mike want a baby, so they ask their close friend Kim to be the surrogate mother.\n\nIn an interview with the creators, Chloe Seddon and Phillip Whiteman stated that the idea came from when they were asked to improvise an audition. 'We chose the scenario of a gay couple asking their best friend to be the surrogate.'\n\nIn 2011, The Vessel Series was awarded 'best webseries pilot' at the London Raindance Film Festival. The Vessel Series has won awards including ‘Best Produced Comedy Web Series’ at LA Web Fest 2013. The series also picked up ‘Best Supporting Actor’ awards for Robin Soans and Louise Jameson.\n\nThe Vessel Series deals with the controversial topics of LGBT parenting and surrogacy. It is filmed from the perspective of the surrogate mother (Kim), so the audience get to see the action through the surrogates eyes and never see Kim’s face or reactions, which is in a similar format to the series ‘Peep Show.’ Every Episode is shot as a single continuous take as well as the script being improvised.\n\nEpisode 1: A Mega Favour - Rory and Mike have a favour to ask Kim. Will she be their tummy mummy? \nEpisode 2: Not actual Turkeys - The trio visit a surrogacy consultant to find out the best way to get Kim pregnant. \nEpisode 3: A bit pregnant - Rory It's the big moment as Kim takes a pregnancy test, but is she truly ready for the result? \nEpisode 4: God didn't give either of them a womb - Kim's Mum The threesome invite Kim's parents over for dinner to break the news. \nEpisode 5: The Teacher's a Psychopath - Kim The boys' rigid pregnancy regime and Kim's fiery pregnancy hormones make a volatile combination when choosing baby names. \nEpisode 6: The Third dad - Kim It's Kim's third date with the hot guy Luke since she became pregnant and she has a special proposition for him. \nEpisode 7: Damn that's my ex...Tim - Rory While out for a walk in the park with Kim, Rory bumps into his ex-boyfriend. \nEpisode 8: Stretch Marks - A night full of uncomfortable dreams fuels a heart to heart between Mike and Kim as they share their anxieties about the baby. \nEpisode 9: Natural History Museum - A trip to the Natural History Museum causes an argument between the boys and a shock for them all. \nEpisode 10: It might feel like you're having a bit of a poo - Midwife The baby arrives bringing a new way of life for the boys and a life changing decision for Kim.\n\n"}
{"id": "43876830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43876830", "title": "Torsten the Bareback Saint", "text": "Torsten the Bareback Saint\n\nTorsten the Bareback Saint is a one-person show and concept album written by playwright Barney Ashton-Bullock, and performed by pop singer Andy Bell of the band Erasure. The score is composed, orchestrated and arranged by Christopher Frost and produced by Mike Allison. The artistic director was Predrag Pajdic.\n\nPromotional material for the show describes it as 'a set of musical postcards from the hotspots of memory of a semi-immortal polysexual'. The music is an episodic song-cycle, which Bell performs accompanied by a small musical ensemble.\n\nBell debuted the show at the 2014 Edinburgh Festival Fringe, where he performed at Assembly Studio One daily from the 5th through the 16th of August. Prior to the festival, he gave two private performances at the St. James Theatre in London. The first of these, on 24 July 2014, was for an invited audience of family and friends; the second, on 26 July, he performed for a small gathering of fans.\n\nA studio-recorded soundtrack album was released on 28 July 2014 by Strike Force Entertainment, an imprint of Cherry Red Records.\n\nOn the back cover of the retail CD release, the titles of tracks 1, 8, and 10 are censored: 'Freshly', 'V for…?', and 'Mobile'.\n\n"}
{"id": "25815494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25815494", "title": "Victor (mascot)", "text": "Victor (mascot)\n\nVictor is the mascot and logo for the comedy festival Just for Laughs. It was designed by Vittorio Fiorucci of the Canadian Design Resource company.\n\nThe image was inspired by a monster that preys on Montreal. The logo can be seen across the world on posters, T-shirts, event site markers, costumes, and inflatables.\n\nIn 2005 the character was redesigned by animator Alan Best at the behest of advertising agency Cossette as part of a comprehensive graphic overhaul of the Just For Laughs brand. \nIn 2007, \"Rose\" was created, a character to be the wife of Victor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30855969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30855969", "title": "Waseda University Tsubouchi Memorial Theatre Museum", "text": "Waseda University Tsubouchi Memorial Theatre Museum\n\nThe Tsubouchi Memorial Theatre Museum of Waseda University is a university museum devoted to the history of drama, with facilities used for cultural performances from all over the world. The museum was named for Tsubouchi Shōyō, a famous writer known for his work with theater and translation of the collected works of Shakespeare into Japanese. It is commonly known as \"Enpaku\" in Japanese.\n\nThe Waseda Theatre Museum formally opened in 1928, following the dreams of Professor Tsubouchi to build a museum dedicated to theatre arts. It commemorates all of Tsubouchi's accomplishments, among them a 40-volume translation of the works of Shakespeare that Tsubouchi also finished in 1928, the year of his 70th birthday. Modelled after the Fortune Theatre of London, the museum approximates its inspiration in both exterior construction and interior design.\n\nThe Waseda Theatre Museum functions as both a repository and exhibition space, housing nearly 37,000 items and 100,000 volumes. For example it has a large number of \"ukiyo-e\" prints depicting the popular kabuki play \"Chūshingura\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7728040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728040", "title": "York Mystery Plays", "text": "York Mystery Plays\n\nThe York Mystery Plays, more properly the York Corpus Christi Plays, are a Middle English cycle of 48 mystery plays or pageants covering sacred history from the creation to the Last Judgment. They were traditionally presented on the feast day of Corpus Christi (a movable feast on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday, between 23 May and 24 June) and were performed in the city of York, from the mid-fourteenth century until their suppression in 1569. The plays are one of four virtually complete surviving English mystery play cycles, along with the Chester Mystery Plays, the Towneley/Wakefield plays and the N-Town plays. Two long, composite, and late mystery pageants have survived from the Coventry cycle and there are records and fragments from other similar productions that took place elsewhere. A manuscript of the plays, probably dating from between 1463 and 1477, is still intact and stored at the British Library.\n\nThere is no record of the first performance of the mystery plays, but they were recorded as celebrating the festival of Corpus Christi in York in 1376, by which time the use of pageant wagons had already been established. The plays were organised, financed and performed by the York Craft Guilds (\"Mystery\" is a play on words, representing a religious truth or rite, and its Middle English meaning of a trade or craft). The wagons were paraded through the streets of York, stopping at 12 playing stations, designated by the city banners.\n\nThe cycle uses many different verse forms, most have rhyme, a regular rhythm with fairly short lines and frequent alliteration. The balance of critical opinion is in favour of several clerics being responsible for their authorship, one of whom is conventionally known as the \"York Realist\". It comprises 48 pageants that were originally presented on carts and wagons dressed for the occasion. In some accounts there are as many as 56 pageants. They told stories from the Old and New Testaments, from the Creation to the Last Judgement. The plays continued after the Reformation when in 1548, the feast of Corpus Christi was abolished in England. The plays were accommodated in to the new religious orthodoxy by cutting scenes honouring the Virgin, but were suppressed in 1569.\n\nTraditionally, an individual guild took responsibility for a particular play.\n\nThe authorship of the plays is unknown, but analysis of the style allows scholars to recognise where authorship changes. One group of plays, concerned with the Passion has been attributed to a writer called \"The York Realist\" and the name has come into general use. The eight plays concerned are\nThey are all written in vigorous alliterative verse as are other plays in the cycle. The distinctive feature, apart from the high quality of the writing, is the attention to incidental detail in the story-telling and in the subtle portrayal of the negative characters, Pilate, Herod, Annas and Caiaphas. Playwright Peter Gill expressed the view that \"If it hadn’t been for the York Realist, Shakespeare would have been a second rate writer like Goethe\".\n\nAfter their suppression in Tudor times, the plays remained little known until Lucy Toulmin Smith obtained permission from the Earl of Ashburnham to study the manuscript of the plays in his possession and publish her transcription together with an introduction and short glossary in 1885.\n\nIn 1909, the York Historic Pageant included a parade of guild banners accompanying a wagon representing the Nativity through the streets. In December the same year a selection of six plays was performed as a fund-raising venture for St Olave's Church, York. The play cycle was revived on a much larger scale in 1951 in the York Festival of the Arts, part of the Festival of Britain celebrations. It was performed on a fixed stage in the ruins of St Mary's Abbey in the Museum Gardens and directed by E. Martin Browne. The music, written for the occasion by James Brown, was directed by Allan Wicks. The part of Jesus was played by Joseph O'Conor, (although to preserve mystique he was not named in the programme) and other roles were taken by amateurs. In the interests of comprehensibility, the text was abbreviated and modernised by Canon Purvis who went on to lead the Borthwick Institute at the University of York, and produced a modernisation of the complete text.\n\nFollowing the success of the 1951 production, said to be \"the most widely applauded festival event in the country, with over 26,000 people witnessing the Plays\", selections from the cycle were staged in the same location at three-year intervals, lengthening to four-year intervals, until 1988. They have aroused academic interest and publications. Usually directed by a professional and with a professional actor playing Jesus, the rest of the cast were local amateurs. Ian McShane played Lucifer/Satan in 1963. Some amateur actors such as Judi Dench became professionals. Directors included E. Martin Browne again (1954, 1957, 1966), David Giles (1960), William Gaskill (1963), Edward Taylor (1969, 1973), Jane Howell (1976), Patrick Garland (1980), Toby Robertson (1984) and Steven Pimlott (1988).\nThe role of Jesus was played a second time by Joseph O'Conor (1954), then by Brian Spink (1957), Tom Criddle, (1960), Alan Dobie (1963), John Westbrook (1966), John Stuart Anderson (1973), local York man David Bradley (1976), Christopher Timothy (1980), Simon Ward (1984) and Victor Banerjee (1988).\n\nIn 1992 the production was moved in a modern production to the York Theatre Royal, with Robson Green playing Christ and a script adapted by Liz Lochhead. The 1996 production in the same place was all-amateur, with the part of Jesus played by local solicitor Rory Mulvihill, and the script shortened by Lochhead. For 2000, the interest of the Dean of York, Very Rev Raymond Furnell, led him to offer the use of York Minster for the most ambitious production so far.\n\nIn 2000 a large-scale performance was staged in York Minster, as \"The York Millennium Mystery Plays\". Directed by Gregory Doran, with a script adapted by Mike Poulton, and with Ray Stevenson in the role of Christ, the production was the most expensive and wide-reaching project in the history of the plays' modern revival. The first half began in heaven with the story of the fall of Lucifer, followed by the creation of the world, the fall of Adam and Eve, Noah's Ark (with impressive and memorable representations of the animals and the flood) and the story of Abraham and Isaac. From the New Testament there came the annunciation and nativity of Jesus, the massacre of the innocents, Christ's childhood, baptism, temptation and ministry, and his entrance into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday. The second half concentrated on the capture and trial of Christ, and his crucifixion, resurrection and ascension. The production ended, as is traditional, with the Last Judgement.\n\nThe production ran for a month, with a total audience of 28,000. Aside from the professional director and actor, Ray Stevenson, the cast was made up of amateurs, mainly from the York area. More than fifty children also took part. Original music was written for the production by local composer Richard Shephard.\n\nFor 2012 the Mystery plays returned to the Museum Gardens, their home until 1988. The script was adapted by Mike Kenny and direction was by Damian Cruden of York Theatre Royal and Paul Burbridge of Riding Lights Theatre Company. The show involved more than 1,000 local volunteers working alongside theatre professionals in all areas of the production, including 500 amateur actors organised into two casts who shared the 30-performance run. The combined role of Jesus and God the Father was played by Ferdinand Kingsley, and Lucifer/Satan by Graeme Hawley. Reviews for the production were generally positive, with praise for the spectacle and stage design as well as the efforts of the volunteers.\n\nIn 2016 the plays were performed in York Minster from 26 May, the feast of Corpus Christi, until 30 June. The director, Phillip Breen, had previously directed for the Royal Shakespeare Company. Writer Mike Poulton and composer Richard Shepard repeated their millennium production roles. The cast had about 150 amateur actors and the sole professional, Philip McGinley, played Jesus except for the last four performances, when owing to his sudden illness the role was taken by his understudy, Toby Gordon.\n\nAn experimental production using horse-drawn brewers’ drays and market stalls, was performed around Leeds University, in 1975.\n\nIn 1994 the Leeds-based historian Jane Oakshott worked alongside the Friends of York Mystery Plays, the Centre for Medieval Studies at the University of York and the York Early Music Festival to direct the first processional performance of the plays in modern times in York. The production involved nine amateur drama groups each taking one plays, and touring it to five playing stations in central York using pageant waggons.\n\nA production in similar format in 1998 featured eleven plays, and for the first time the modern York Guilds were involved with some of the plays, either directly or as sponsors.\n\nFollowing the production in York Minster in 2000, the Waggon Plays were the only regular cycle performed in the city until 2012 when the static plays were revived. The Waggon Plays also used the Museum Gardens as a performance station maintaining the link between St Mary's Abbey and the plays established in the 1950s.\n\nFor the 2002 production management transferred to a committee of the Guilds of York: the York Guild of Building, the Company of Merchant Taylors, the Company of Cordwainers, the Gild of Freemen, the Company of Butchers, the Guild of Scriveners and the Company of Merchant Adventurers. Ten plays were produced with the assistance of local drama groups.\n\nIn 2006, twelve waggons performed in the streets, in conjunction with the York Early Music Festival.\n\nThe 2010 production featured twelve waggons, performing at four stations. At the same time the only known surviving manuscript of the plays was displayed in York Art Gallery.\n\nTwo plays (Creation and Noah's Ark) were performed on waggons at two stations in the York 800 celebrations in 2012.\n\nThe performances on waggons were performed by the Guilds in 2014 continuing the established four-yearly cycle. 2018 will see the plays return to the streets of York, with a selection of 11 plays.\n\nModern performances use some degree of modernisation of the text, either by a radical policy of replacing all obsolete word and phrases by modern equivalents, or at least by using modern pronunciations. An exception is the productions of the \"Lords of Misrule\", a dramatic group composed of students and recent graduates of the Department of Medieval Studies at the University of York. Their presentations use authentic Middle English both in the words used and in their pronunciation. They have regularly contributed to one of the waggon play productions.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
