{"id": "47638995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47638995", "title": "50 reasons people give for believing in a god", "text": "50 reasons people give for believing in a god\n\n50 reasons people give for believing in a god is a 2008 book by journalist Guy P. Harrison. It was his first book. The book examines fifty common reasons that believers across the world give for believing in a god. It draws on his conversations with people while traveling both for business and pleasure in 20 years as a journalist. Harrison notes that very few people are interested in the complex arguments that go on between theologians and atheists. The people he has talked with say they believe because that is what their parents taught them, and their parents wouldn't lie to them, or because that is what it says in their book of wisdom. Of the 50 reasons, Harrison concludes that the most common reasons people believe are because it is just obvious to them, because everyone is religious so it must be true, or because it brings them happiness. Harrison takes a calm and empathetic attitude towards people who believe, in contrast to some other atheist works. He describes Richard Dawkins' use of the term \"faith heads\" to describe believers as \"a lot like an insult\" and writes that it is \"counterproductive.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2398061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2398061", "title": "Abdel Rahman Badawi", "text": "Abdel Rahman Badawi\n\nAbdur Rahman Badawi (Arabic: ) (February 17, 1917 – July 25, 2002) was an Egyptian existentialist professor of philosophy and poet. He has been called the \"foremost master of Arab existentialism.\" He authored more than 150 works, amongst them 75 which were encyclopaedic. He wrote easily in his native Arabic, English, Spanish, French and German, and read Greek, Latin and Persian.\n\nBorn to a wealthy family in the village of Sharabass, 95 miles from Cairo, Badawi was educated at al-Saidiya school in Cairo. He graduated with a first-class degree in philosophy from the Egyptian University in 1938, and was supervised for his PhD thesis by Alexandre Koyre.\n\nFrom 1950 to 1956 he taught at Ain Shams University. As a member of a 1954 committee to draft a new Egyptian constitution, he clashed with Nasser, who dissolved the committee in 1956. From 1956 to 1958 he was a cultural attache in Switzerland, regarding fellow diplomats there as \"ignorant and hypocritical\".\n\nBadawi described leaving Nasser's Egypt to teach in the Sorbonne in 1967 as escaping \"the big jail\". However, a professorship in Libya from 1967 to 1973 ended when Muammar Gaddafi visited the university and was embarrassed to be received by Badawi's students arguing for freedom of expression. Gaddafi imprisoned Badawi, publicly burning his personal library. His release was secured after 17 days by Anwar Sadat.\n\nBadawi taught at Kuwait University from 1975 to 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "38860838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38860838", "title": "Abraham Bos", "text": "Abraham Bos\n\nAbraham P. Bos (born 1943, Baarn) is a retired professor in Ancient and Patristic philosophy at the Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, specializing in the philosophy of Aristotle\n\nHis doctoral thesis in 1971 was \"Een onderzoek naar de kosmologie van Aristoteles in de eerste jaren van zijn wijsgerige activit\" (A study of the cosmology of Aristotle in the first years of his philosophical activity) His inaugural lecture in 1976 was \"Providentia Divina: The Theme of Divine Pronoia in Plato and Aristotle\"\n\nHe is the author, co author, or co-editor of\n\n"}
{"id": "14762552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14762552", "title": "African empires", "text": "African empires\n\nAfrican empires is an umbrella term used in African studies to refer to a number of pre-colonial African kingdoms in Africa with multinational structures incorporating various populations and polities into a single entity, usually through conquest.\n\nListed below are known African empires and their respective capital cities.\n\nThe Sahelian kingdoms were a series of medieval empires centred on the sahel, the area of grasslands south of the Sahara.\n\nFrom the 15th century until the final Scramble for Africa in the late 19th century a number of empires were also established south of the Sahel, especially in West Africa.\n\nThe West African empires of this period peaked in power in the late 18th century, paralleling the peak of the Atlantic slave trade.\nThese empires implemented a culture of permanent warfare in order to generate the required numbers of captives required to satisfy the demand for slaves by the European colonies. With the gradual abolition of slavery in the European colonial empires during the 19th century, slave trade again became less lucrative and the West African empires entered a period of decline, and mostly collapsed by the end of the 19th century.\n\n\n\nThe Mutapa Empire or Empire of Great Zimbabwe (1450–1629) was a medieval kingdom located between the Zambezi and Limpopo rivers of Southern Africa in the modern states of Zimbabwe and Mozambique. Remnants of the historical capital are found in the ruins of Great Zimbabwe.\n\nPre-Islamic empires of North Africa:\n\n\n\nVansina (1962) discusses the classification of Sub-Saharan African kingdoms, mostly of Central, South and East Africa, with some additional data on West African (Sahelian) kingdoms distinguishing five types, by decreasing centralization of power:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27620844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27620844", "title": "Antonina Bludova", "text": "Antonina Bludova\n\nCountess Antonina Dmitrievna Bludova (Антонина Дмитриевна Блудова; 25 April 1813 – 9 April 1891) was a Russian philanthropist, salonist, memoirist and lady-in-waiting.\n\nAntonina Bludova was the eldest child of Count Dmitry Bludov, one of Nicholas I's trusted ministers and advisors. She was born in Stockholm, where her father was on the Russian embassy staff. From an early age, she met Alexander Pushkin, Vasily Zhukovsky, Nikolai Gogol, Mikhail Lermontov, Aleksey Khomyakov and other luminaries of the literary world. Her salon was one of the most fashionable in Saint Petersburg, serving as a vital link between the imperial court and the Slavophile (or Pan-Slavist) circles. She was made a senior lady-in-waiting in 1863.\n\nAfter her father's death in 1864, this influential spinster decided to leave the capital in order to devote herself to Christian causes. She founded an Orthodox bratstvo in Ostrog which included an elementary school, a school for girls, a public library, a hospital, a drug store and a home for pilgrims travelling to the Pochayev Monastery. She died in Moscow at the age of 77 and was buried in the Novodevichy Convent. Her memoirs were published in 1889.\n"}
{"id": "722119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=722119", "title": "Apatheism", "text": "Apatheism\n\nApatheism (; a portmanteau of \"apathy\" and \"theism\") is the attitude of apathy towards the existence or non-existence of god(s). It is more of an attitude rather than a belief, claim, or belief system.\n\nAn apatheist is someone who is not interested in accepting or rejecting any claims that gods exist or do not exist. The existence of god(s) is not rejected, but may be designated irrelevant.\n\nScientist and philosopher Ian von Hegner has argued that apatheism is an alternative to positions such as theism, atheism, and agnosticism, with implications that have been overlooked in modern philosophical discussions. Philosopher Trevor Hedberg has called apatheism \"uncharted territory in the philosophy of religion.\"\n\nApatheism considers the question of the existence or nonexistence of deities to be fundamentally irrelevant in every way that matters. This position should not be understood as a skeptical position in a manner similar to that of, for example, atheists or agnostics who question the existence of deities or whether we can know about anything about them.\n\nThe existence of deities is not put aside for moral or epistemic reasons—for democratic or existential reasons, it is deemed unnecessary. This is a universalization of the fundamental democratic principle that there are no first- and second-class humans and that among other species or beings (including hypothetical deities or aliens elsewhere in the universe), human beings also are not second class. In this version, the existence of deities is thus not one of the so-called grand questions in life.\n\nThe term apatheist was coined by Stuart D. Johnson to describe the attitudinal disinterest in theism that \"accompanies the shift from sacred to secular orientations in the contemporary world.\" \n\nApatheists may feel that even if there was a god/deity and the existence and legitimacy of them were proven, it would not make a difference to him/her for one reason or another, therefore, which one(s), if any, are real does not matter and any discussion about it is meaningless. This approach is similar to that of practical atheism.\n\nAn apatheist may not have any interest in the god debate simply for lack of interest in the topic.\n\nThis apatheistic argument states that morals do not come from god and that if a god exists there would be no changes with regards to morality, therefore a god's existence or non-existence is irrelevant.\n\nA view related to apatheism, apathetic agnosticism claims that no amount of debate can prove or disprove the existence of one or more deities, and if one or more deities exist, they do not appear to be concerned about the fate of humans. Therefore, their existence has little to no impact on personal human affairs and should be of little interest.\n\nThe view that one should live their life with disregard towards a god or gods. Practical atheism doesn't see the god question as irrelevant, in contrast to apatheism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18366075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18366075", "title": "Australasian Association of Philosophy", "text": "Australasian Association of Philosophy\n\nThe Australasian Association of Philosophy (AAP) is the peak body for philosophy in Australasia. The chief purpose of the AAP is to promote philosophy in Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore. Among the means that it follows to achieve this end, the AAP runs an annual conference, publishes two journals, awards various prizes, sponsors postgraduate and undergraduate philosophical activities, maintains affiliations with numerous other organisations that aim to promote philosophy and philosophical activity, and promotes philosophy in schools, cafes, pubs, and everywhere else that philosophy may be found.\n\nThe AAP was formed in 1922. Until 1958, it was as the \"Australasian Association of Psychology and Philosophy\". The first issue of the journal appeared in 1923, and the first annual conference was held in Sydney in 1923.\n\nWhen it was founded, the Association had a number of State branches in Australia, including a branch in Victoria and a branch in New South Wales. These state branches had all ceased functioning well before the close of the twentieth century.\n\nA New Zealand Division of the Australasian Association of Philosophy (AAPNZ) was formally established in 1978. It was constituted by AAP members who were or had been active in New Zealand philosophy. The NZ Division held an Annual Conference in early December. The first such conference was held at Canterbury University College, Christchurch in 1953. AAPNZ was formally disestablished in 2011. The organisation of the Annual Conference in early December is now the responsibility of the New Zealand Association of Philosophy (NZAP).\n\nSingapore became a region of the AAP in 2002.\n\nThe AAP is responsible for the publication of \"Australasian Journal of Philosophy (AJP)\", which is Australasia's oldest philosophy journal. Various independent rankings list the AJP in the top ten generalist philosophy journals in the world.\n\nThe AAP is also launching a second journal, \"Australasian Philosophical Review\" (APR), the first issue of which is due to appear in July, 2016.\n\nThe association is responsible for the organisation of the annual AAP conference, which always commences on the first Sunday in July. Held over five days, this conference is designed to give professional philosophers the opportunity to present and discuss papers in all areas of philosophy. Each year it attracts up to 300 philosophers from all parts of the globe.\n\nThe AAP awards a number of annual prizes. These include:\n\nThe AAP maintains affiliations with FISP (Fédération Internationale des Sociétés de Philosophie), the APA (American Philosophical Association), the BPA (British Philosophical Association), the ACPA (L'Association canadienne de philosophie), FAPSA (Federation of Australasian Philosophy in Schools Associations), CHASS (Council for the Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences), and a range of Australasian philosophical associations that are devoted to particular sub-disciplines or sub-areas of philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10458370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10458370", "title": "Beyond Terror", "text": "Beyond Terror\n\nBeyond Terror: The Truth About the Real Threats to Our World is a book by Chris Abbott, Paul Rogers and John Sloboda of Oxford Research Group, a UK-based think tank. It is a 120-page paperback published by the Rider imprint of Random House in April 2007.\n"}
{"id": "11132342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11132342", "title": "Bodmer Library", "text": "Bodmer Library\n\nThe Bodmer Foundation (French: \"Fondation Bodmer\") is a library and museum specialised in manuscripts and precious editions. It is located in Cologny, Switzerland just outside Geneva.\n\nAlso known as Bibliotheca Bodmeriana (or Bodmer Library), it is a Swiss heritage site of national significance. The library was established by Martin Bodmer and is famous as the home of the Bodmer Papyri. Some of these papyri are among the oldest remaining copies of the New Testament. Some manuscripts are written in Greek, others in Coptic (e.g. \"Papyrus Bodmer III\"). The first of the manuscripts was purchased in 1956 (\"Papyrus Bodmer II\" — P). It also houses a copy of the Gutenberg Bible.\n\nMartin Bodmer established the library in the 1920s. Bodmer selected the works centering on what he saw as the five pillars of world literature: the Bible, Homer, Dante Alighieri, William Shakespeare and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. He prioritized autographs and first editions. 1951 Bodmer had built two neo-baroque houses in Cologny to accommodate the collection.\n\nIn 1970, shortly before Bodmer's death, the Bodmer Foundation was established to make the collection accessible and conserve it. In 2003 the building was remodelled by Mario Botta. He connected the cellars of the two houses by a two-story underground structure, pierced by light shafts.\n\nThe collection comprises some 160,000 items, including Sumerian clay tablets, Greek papyri and handwritten originals including music sheets. He aimed at representing the historical context by adding political, philosophical and scientific items. Some samples are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7502686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7502686", "title": "Code of Conduct for the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and NGOs in Disaster Relief", "text": "Code of Conduct for the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and NGOs in Disaster Relief\n\nThe Code of Conduct for International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and NGOs in Disaster Relief was drawn up in 1992 by the Steering Committee for Humanitarian Response (SCHR) to set ethical standards for organizations involved in humanitarian work. In 1994, the SCHR adopted the code and made the signing of it a condition for membership in the alliance.\n\nAlthough the initiative began with a call by the French Red Cross to the IFRC to draw up a code of conduct relating to humanitarian aid in response to natural disasters, many of the sponsoring agencies had been involved in complex emergencies such as Biafra and Rwanda and were also looking for guidance for operating in the midst of violent conflicts. more than 600 organizations have signed the code.\n\nIn 1995, at the 26th International Conference of the Red Cross and Red Crescent, which included delegates from governments, the Red Cross and Red Crescent National Societies, the IFRC, and the ICRC, a resolution was passed which “took note of” and “welcomed” the code giving it wide international recognition.\n\nPrinciple Commitments of the Code\n\n\nThe 10 articles of the code fall into two types: Articles 1 through 4 are core humanitarian principles required for humanitarian response. The remaining articles are more aspirational and are important to improving the quality of both humanitarian and developmental work.\n\nThe humanitarian imperative, based on the principle of humanity, together with other core principles, impartiality, and independence, stress that humanitarian response must be based on need alone. They are derived, from the Fundamental Principles of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement Red Cross movement. However the principle of neutrality, which is directly related to the special international role of the Red Cross is not included in the code of conduct. Organizations such as military forces and for-profit companies may deliver assistance to communities affected by disaster, but they are not considered by the humanitarian sector as humanitarian agencies as they do not meet all of the core principles.\n\nArticles, 5 through 10, are derived particularly from experience in development work. Most of the original sponsors have had decades of experience working in the development sector and the articles reflect their experience and commitment. Some development agencies are deeply committed to such an approach while being unable to subscribe to the core principles.\n\nThe code of conduct is a voluntary code which is self-enforced by each of the signatory organizations.\n\nThe code includes two annexes, Annex I, Recommendations to governments of disaster affected countries, and Annex II, Recommendations to donor governments.\n\nThe code of conduct is widely used to guide conduct within humanitarian agencies. When the code was drawn up a new term was coined: Non governmental humanitarian agencies (NGHAs), to include the NGOs and the components of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement which are not NGOs.\n\nThe Disaster Emergency Committee (DEC) which is based in the UK has used the code for evaluating humanitarian action, beginning with an evaluation of the Gujarat earthquake of 2001 and covering many subsequent evaluations. The evaluators have used the code as a framework, presenting their findings of agencies' performances in relation to each principle in the Code.\n\nEvaluators differ about the usefulness of the code. In the DEC evaluation of the Gujarat earthquake of 2001, the evaluators concluded \nHowever, because of the lack of indicators of compliance with code they were forced to rate overall performance based on the aggregation of their impressions and judgement rather than on an objective measurement. The evaluators of the DEC Tsunami Crisis Response were unable to do this because of different perceptions of different team members. However, the opening paragraph of the executive summary of the Tsunami evaluation states \n\nThis is at odds with the conclusions of Hillhorst's review of the code which states:\n\nHillhorst's paper draws on a survey of code signatories and a conference to review the code, as well as detailed analysis of the code itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41567044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41567044", "title": "DataViva", "text": "DataViva\n\nDataViva is an information visualization engine created by the Strategic Priorities Office of the government of Minas Gerais. DataViva makes official data about exports, industries, locations and occupations available for the entirety of Brazil through eight apps and more than 100 million possible visualizations.\n\nThe first set of datum – also available at ALICEWEB – is provided by MDIC (Ministry of Development, Industry and Foreign Trade) / SECEX (Secretariat of Foreign Trade), an official institution of the Government of Brazil and shows foreign trade statistics for all exporting municipalities in the country. The other database, provided by Ministério do Trabalho e Emprego (MTE – Ministry of Labor and Employment), shows information about all of the industries and occupations in Brazil (RAIS – Annual Social Information Report).\n\nThe platform consists of eight core applications, each of which allows different ways of visualizing the data available. Some applications are descriptive, that is, showing data aggregated at various levels in a simple and comparative way, such as Treemapping. Others are prescriptive, using calculations that allow an analytic visualization of the data, based on theories such as the Product Space. All of the applications are generated using D3plus, an open source JavaScript library built on top of D3.js by Alexander Simoes and Dave Landry.\n\nInspired by The Observatory of Economic Complexity, DataViva is an open data, open-source, and free to use tool.\n\nIt was developed in a partnership with MIT Media Lab Professor César Hidalgo and is maintained by the Government of Minas Gerais.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2939579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2939579", "title": "Declaration of Helsinki", "text": "Declaration of Helsinki\n\nThe Declaration of Helsinki (DoH, , ) is a set of ethical principles regarding human experimentation developed for the medical community by the World Medical Association (WMA). It is widely regarded as the cornerstone document on human research ethics.\n\nIt is not a legally binding instrument under the international law, but instead draws its authority from the degree to which it has been codified in, or influenced, national or regional legislation and regulations. Its role was described by a Brazilian forum in 2000 in these words \"Even though the Declaration of Helsinki is the responsibility of the World Medical Association, the document should be considered the property of all humanity\".\nThe Declaration is morally binding on physicians, and that obligation overrides any national or local laws or regulations, if the Declaration provides for a higher standard of protection of humans than the latter. Investigators still have to abide by local legislation but will be held to the higher standard.\n\nThe fundamental principle is respect for the individual (Article 8), their right to self-determination and the right to make informed decisions (Articles 20, 21 and 22) regarding participation in research, both initially and during the course of the research. The investigator's duty is solely to the patient (Articles 2, 3 and 10) or volunteer (Articles 16, 18), and while there is always a need for research (Article 6), the subject's welfare must always take precedence over the interests of science and society (Article 5), and ethical considerations must always take precedence over laws and regulations (Article 9).\n\nThe recognition of the increased vulnerability of individuals and groups calls for special vigilance (Article 8). It is recognized that when the research participant is incompetent, physically or mentally incapable of giving consent, or is a minor (Articles 23, 24), then allowance should be considered for surrogate consent by an individual acting in the subject's best interest, although their consent should still be obtained if at all possible (Article 25).\n\nResearch should be based on a thorough knowledge of the scientific background (Article 11), a careful assessment of risks and benefits (Articles 16, 17), have a reasonable likelihood of benefit to the population studied (Article 19) and be conducted by suitably trained investigators (Article 15) using approved protocols, subject to independent ethical review and oversight by a properly convened committee (Article 13). The protocol should address the ethical issues and indicate that it is in compliance with the Declaration (Article 14). Studies should be discontinued if the available information indicates that the original considerations are no longer satisfied (Article 17). Information regarding the study should be publicly available (Article 16). Ethical publications extend to publication of the results and consideration of any potential conflict of interest (Article 27). Experimental investigations should always be compared against the best methods, but under certain circumstances a placebo or no treatment group may be utilised (Article 29). The interests of the subject after the study is completed should be part of the overall ethical assessment, including assuring their access to the best proven care (Article 30). Wherever possible unproven methods should be tested in the context of research where there is reasonable belief of possible benefit (Article 32).\n\nInvestigators often find themselves in the position of having to follow several different codes or guidelines, and are therefore required to understand the differences between them. One of these is Good Clinical Practice (GCP), an international guide, while each country may also have local regulations such as the Common Rule in the US, in addition to the requirements of the FDA and Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) in that country. There are a number of available tools which compare these.\nOther countries have guides with similar roles, such as the Tri-Council Policy Statement in Canada. Additional international guidelines include those of the CIOMS, Nuffield Council and UNESCO.\n\nThe Declaration was originally adopted in June 1964 in Helsinki, Finland, and has since undergone seven revisions (the most recent at the General Assembly in October 2013) and two clarifications, growing considerably in length from 11 paragraphs in 1964 to 37 in the 2013 version. The Declaration is an important document in the history of research ethics as it is the first significant effort of the medical community to regulate research itself, and forms the basis of most subsequent documents.\n\nPrior to the 1947 Nuremberg Code there was no generally accepted code of conduct governing the ethical aspects of human research, although some countries, notably Germany and Russia, had national policies [3a]. The Declaration developed the ten principles first stated in the Nuremberg Code, and tied them to the Declaration of Geneva (1948), a statement of physicians' ethical duties. The Declaration more specifically addressed clinical research, reflecting changes in medical practice from the term 'Human Experimentation used in the Nuremberg Code. A notable change from the Nuremberg Code was a relaxation of the conditions of consent, which was 'absolutely essential' under Nuremberg. Now doctors were asked to obtain consent 'if at all possible' and research was allowed without consent where a proxy consent, such as a legal guardian, was available (Article II.1).\n\nThe 1975 revision was almost twice the length of the original. It clearly stated that \"concern for the interests of the subject must always prevail over the interests of science and society.\" It also introduced the concept of oversight by an 'independent committee' (Article I.2) which became a system of Institutional Review Boards (IRB) in the US, and research ethics committees or ethical review boards in other countries. In the United States regulations governing IRBs came into effect in 1981 and are now encapsulated in the Common Rule. Informed consent was developed further, made more prescriptive and partly moved from 'Medical Research Combined with Professional Care' into the first section (Basic Principles), with the burden of proof for not requiring consent being placed on the investigator to justify to the committee. 'Legal guardian' was replaced with 'responsible relative'. The duty to the individual was given primacy over that to society (Article I.5), and concepts of publication ethics were introduced (Article I.8). Any experimental manoeuvre was to be compared to the best available care as a comparator (Article II.2), and access to such care was assured (Article I.3). The document was also made gender neutral.\n\nSubsequent revisions between 1975 and 2000 were relatively minor, so the 1975 version was effectively that which governed research over a quarter of a century of relative stability.\n\nThe second revision (1983) included seeking the consent of minors where possible. The third revision (1989) dealt further with the function and structure of the independent committee. However, from 1993 onwards, the Declaration was not alone as a universal guide since CIOMS and the World Health Organization (WHO) had also developed their International Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical Research Involving Human Subjects.\n\nThe AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) Study 076 of 100 Zidovudine in maternal-infant transmission of HIV had been published in 1994. This was a placebo controlled trial which showed a reduction of nearly 70% in the risk of transmission, and Zidovudine became a \"de facto\" standard of care. The subsequent initiation of further placebo controlled trials carried out in developing countries and funded by the United States Centers for Disease Control or National Institutes of Health raised considerable concern when it was learned that patients in trials in the US had essentially unrestricted access to the drug, while those in developing countries did not. Justification was provided by a 1994 WHO group in Geneva which concluded \"Placebo-controlled trials offer the best option for a rapid and scientifically valid assessment of alternative antiretroviral drug regimens to prevent transmission of HIV\".\nThese trials appeared to be in direct conflict with recently published guidelines for international research by CIOMS, which stated \"The ethical standards applied should be no less exacting than they would be in the case of research carried out in country\", referring to the sponsoring or initiating country.\nIn fact a schism between ethical universalism and ethical pluralism was already apparent before the 1993 revision of the CIOMS guidelines.\n\nIn retrospect, this was one of the most significant revisions because it added the phrase \"\"This does not exclude the use of inert placebo in studies where no proven diagnostic or therapeutic method exists\" to Article II.3 (\"In any medical study, every patient--including those of a control group, if any—should be assured of the best proven diagnostic and therapeutic method.\"\"). Critics claimed that the Zidovudine trials in developing countries were in breach of this because Zidovudine was now the best proven treatment and the placebo group should have been given it. This led to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) ignoring this and all subsequent revisions.\n\nFollowing the fourth revision in 1996 pressure began to build almost immediately for a more fundamental approach to revising the declaration. The later revision in 2000 would go on to require monitoring of scientific research on human subjects to assure ethical standards were being met. In 1997 Lurie and Wolfe published their seminal paper on HIV trials, raising awareness of a number of central issues. These included the claims that the continuing trials in developing countries were unethical, and pointing out a fundamental discrepancy in decisions to change the study design in Thailand but not Africa. The issue of the use of placebo in turn raised questions about the standard of care in developing counties and whether, as Marcia Angell wrote \"Human subjects in any part of the world should be protected by an irreducible set of ethical standards\" (1988). The American Medical Association put forward a proposed revision in November that year, and a proposed revision (17.C/Rev1/99) was circulated the following year, causing considerable debate and resulting in a number of symposia and conferences.\nRecommendations included limiting the document to basic guiding principles. Many editorials and commentaries were published reflecting a variety of views including concerns that the Declaration was being weakened by a shift towards efficiency-based and utilitarian standards (Rothman, Michaels and Baum 2000), and an entire issue of the \"Bulletin of Medical Ethics\" was devoted to the debate. Others saw it as an example of Angell's 'Ethical Imperialism', an imposition of US needs on the developing world, and resisted any but the most minor changes, or even a partitioned document with firm principles and commentaries, as used by CIOMS. The idea of ethical imperialism was brought into high attention with HIV testing, as it was strongly debated from 1996-2000 because of its centrality to the issue of regimens to prevent its vertical transmission. Brennan summarises this by stating \"The principles exemplified by the current Declaration of Helsinki represent a delicate compromise that we should modify only after careful deliberation\". Nevertheless, what had started as a controversy over a specific series of trials and their designs in Sub-Saharan Africa, now had potential implications for all research. These implications further came into public view since the Helsinki declaration had stated, \"In the treatment of the sick person, the physician must be free to use a new diagnostic and therapeutic measure, if in his or her judgement, it offers hope of saving life, reestablishing health or alleviating suffering.\"\n\nEven though most meetings about the proposed revisions failed to achieve consensus, and many argued that the declaration should remain unchanged or only minimally altered, after extensive consultation the Workgroup\n\neventually came up with a text that was endorsed by WMA's Council and passed by the General Assembly on October 7, 2000,\n\nand which proved to be the most far reaching and contentious revision to date. The justification for this was partly to take account of expanded scope of biomedical research since 1975. This involved a restructuring of the document, including renumbering and re-ordering of all the articles, the changes in which are outlined in this Table. The Introduction establishes the rights of subjects and describes the inherent tension between the need for research to improve the common good, and the rights of the individual. The Basic Principles establish a guide for judging to what extent proposed research meets the expected ethical standards. The distinction between therapeutic and non-therapeutic research introduced in the original document, criticised by Levine was removed to emphasise the more general application of ethical principles, but the application of the principles to healthy volunteers is spelt out in Articles 18-9, and they are referred to in Article 8 ('those who will not benefit personally from the research') as being especially vulnerable. The scope of ethical review was increased to include human tissue and data (Article 1), the necessity to challenge accepted care was added (Article 6), as well as establishing the primacy of the ethical requirements over laws and regulations (Article 9).\n\nAmongst the many changes was an increased emphasis on the need to benefit the communities in which research is undertaken, and to draw attention to the ethical problems of experimenting on those who would not benefit from the research, such as developing countries in which innovative medications would not be available. Article 19 first introduces the concept of social justice, and extends the scope from individuals to the community as a whole by stating that 'research is only justified if there is a reasonable likelihood that the populations in which the research is carried out stand to benefit from the results of the research'. This new role for the Declaration has been both denounced\n\nand praised, \nand even considered for a clarification footnote. Article 27 expanded the concept of publication ethics, adding the necessity to disclose conflict of interest (echoed in Articles 13 and 22), and to include publication bias amongst ethically problematic behavior.\n\nThe most controversial revisions\n\n(Articles 29, 30) were placed in this new category. These predictably were those that like the fourth revision were related to the ongoing debate in international health research. The discussions indicate that there was felt a need to send a strong signal that exploitation of poor populations as a means to an end, by research from which they would not benefit, was unacceptable. In this sense the Declaration endorsed ethical universalism.\n\nArticle 29 restates the use of placebo where 'no proven' intervention exists. Surprisingly, although the wording was virtually unchanged, this created far more protest in this revision. The implication being that placebos are not permitted where proven interventions are available. The placebo question was already an active debate prior to the fourth revision but had intensified, while at the same time the placebo question was still causing controversy in the international setting. This revision implies that in choosing a study design, developed-world standards of care should apply to any research conducted on human subjects, including those in developing countries. The wording of the fourth and fifth revisions reflect the position taken by Rothman and Michel and Freedman et al., known as 'active-control orthodoxy'. The opposing view, as expressed by Levine and by Temple and Ellenberg is referred to as 'placebo orthodoxy', insisting that placebo controls are more scientifically efficient and are justifiable where the risk of harm is low. This viewpoint argues that where no standards of care exist, as for instance in developing countries, then placebo-controlled trials are appropriate. The utilitarian argument held that the disadvantage to a few (such as denial of potentially beneficial interventions) was justifiable for the advantage of many future patients. These arguments are intimately tied to the concept of distributive justice, the equitable distribution of the burdens of research. As with much of the Declaration, there is room for interpretation of words. 'Best current' has been variously held to refer to either global or local contexts.\n\nArticle 30 introduced another new concept, that after the conclusion of the study patients 'should be assured of access to the best proven' intervention arising from the study, a justice issue. Arguments over this have dealt with whether subjects derive benefit from the trial and are no worse off at the end than the \"status quo\" prior to the trial, or of not participating, versus the harm of being denied access to that which they have contributed to. There are also operational issues that are unclear.\n\nGiven the lack of consensus on many issues prior to the fifth revision it is no surprise that the debates continued unabated. The debate over these and related issues also revealed differences in perspectives between developed and developing countries. Zion and colleagues (Zion 2000) have attempted to frame the debate more carefully, exploring the broader social and ethical issues and the lived realities of potential subjects' lives as well as acknowledging the limitations of absolute universality in a diverse world, particularly those framed in a context that might be considered elitist and structured by gender and geographic identity. As Macklin points out, both sides may be right, since justice \"is not an unambiguous concept\".\n\nEventually Notes of Clarification (footnotes) to articles 29 and 30 were added in 2002 and 2004 respectively, predominantly under pressure from the US (CMAJ 2003, Blackmer 2005). The 2002 clarification to Article 29 was in response to many concerns about WMA's apparent position on placebos. As WMA states in the note, there appeared to be 'diverse interpretations and possibly confusion'. It then outlined circumstances in which a placebo might be 'ethically acceptable', namely 'compelling... methodological reasons', \"or\" 'minor conditions' where the 'risk of serious or irreversible harm' was considered low. Effectively this shifted the WMA position to what has been considered a 'middle ground'. Given the previous lack of consensus, this merely shifted the ground of debate, \n\nArticle 30 was debated further at the 2003 meeting, with another proposed clarification but did not result in any convergence of thought, and so decisions were postponed for another year, but again a commitment was made to protecting the vulnerable. A new working group examined article 30, and recommended not amending it in January 2004.\n\nLater that year the American Medical Association proposed a further note of clarification that was incorporated. In this clarification the issue of post trial care now became something to consider, not an absolute assurance.\n\nDespite these changes, as Macklin predicted, consensus was no closer and the Declaration was considered by some to be out of touch with contemporary thinking, and even the question of the future of the Declaration became a matter for conjecture.\n\nThe sixth revision cycle commenced in May 2007. This consisted of a call for submissions, completed in August 2007. The terms of reference included only a limited revision compared to 2000. In November 2007 a draft revision was issued for consultation till February 2008, and led to a workshop in Helsinki in March. Those comments were then incorporated into a second draft in May. Further workshops were held in Cairo and São Paulo and the comments collated in August 2008. A final text was then developed by the Working Group for consideration by the Ethics Committee and finally the General Assembly, which approved it on October 18. Public debate was relatively slight compared to previous cycles, and in general supportive. Input was received from a wide number of sources, some of which have been published, such as Feminist Approaches to Bioethics. Others include CIOMS and the US Government.\n\nThe most recent iteration of Helsinki (2013) was reflective of the controversy regarding the standard of care that arose from the vertical transmission trials. The revised declaration of 2013 also highlights the need to disseminate research results, including negative and inconclusive studies and also includes a requirement for treatment and compensation for injuries related to research. In addition, the updated version is felt to be more relevant to limited resource settings—specifically addressing the need to ensure access to an intervention if it is proven effective.\n\nThe controversies and national divisions over the text have continued. The US FDA rejected the 2000 and subsequent revisions, only recognizing the third (1989) revision, and in 2006 announced it would eliminate all reference to the Declaration. After consultation, which included expressions of concern,\n\na final rule was issued on April 28, 2008 replacing the Declaration of Helsinki with Good Clinical Practice effective October 2008. \n\nThis has raised a number of concerns regarding the apparent weakening of protections for research subjects outside the United States. \n\nThe NIH training in human subject research participant protection no longer refers to the Declaration of Helsinki. The European Union similarly only cites the 1996 version in the EU Clinical Trials Directive published in 2001. The European Commission, however, does refer to the 2000 revision.\n\nWhile the Declaration has been a central document guiding research practice, its future has been called into question. Challenges include the apparent conflict between guides, such as the CIOMS and Nuffield Council documents. Another is whether it should concentrate on basic principles as opposed to being more prescriptive, and hence controversial. It has continually grown and faced more frequent revisions. The recent controversies undermine the authority of the document, as does the apparent desertion by major bodies, and any rewording must embrace deeply and widely held values, since continual shifts in the text do not imply authority. The actual claims to authority particularly on a global level, by the insertion of the word \"international\" in article 10 has been challenged.\nCarlson raises the question as to whether the document's utility should be more formally evaluated, rather than just relying on tradition.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2628057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2628057", "title": "Defeasible reasoning", "text": "Defeasible reasoning\n\nIn logic, defeasible reasoning is a kind of reasoning that is rationally compelling, though not deductively valid.\n\nDefeasible reasoning is a particular kind of non-demonstrative reasoning, where the reasoning does not produce a full, complete, or final demonstration of a claim, i.e., where fallibility and corrigibility of a conclusion are acknowledged. In other words, defeasible reasoning produces a statement or claim. Other kinds of non-demonstrative reasoning are probabilistic reasoning, inductive reasoning, statistical reasoning, abductive reasoning, and paraconsistent reasoning. Defeasible reasoning is also a kind of ampliative reasoning because its conclusions reach beyond the pure meanings of the premises.\n\nThe differences between these kinds of reasoning correspond to differences about the conditional that each kind of reasoning uses, and on what premise (or on what authority) the conditional is adopted:\n\nDefeasible reasoning finds its fullest expression in jurisprudence, ethics and moral philosophy, epistemology, pragmatics and conversational conventions in linguistics, constructivist decision theories, and in knowledge representation and planning in artificial intelligence. It is also closely identified with prima facie (presumptive) reasoning (i.e., reasoning on the \"face\" of evidence), and ceteris paribus (default) reasoning (i.e., reasoning, all things \"being equal\").\n\nThough Aristotle differentiated the forms of reasoning that are valid for logic and philosophy from the more general ones that are used in everyday life (see dialectics and rhetoric), 20th century philosophers mainly concentrated on deductive reasoning. At the end of the 19th century, logic texts would typically survey both demonstrative and non-demonstrative reasoning, often giving more space to the latter. However, after the blossoming of mathematical logic at the hands of Bertrand Russell, Alfred North Whitehead and Willard van Orman Quine, latter-20th century logic texts paid little attention to the non-deductive modes of inference.\n\nThere are several notable exceptions. John Maynard Keynes wrote his dissertation on non-demonstrative reasoning, and influenced the thinking of Ludwig Wittgenstein on this subject. Wittgenstein, in turn, had many admirers, including the positivist legal scholar H.L.A. Hart and the speech act linguist John L. Austin, Stephen Toulmin and Chaim Perelman in rhetoric, the moral theorists W.D. Ross and C.L. Stevenson, and the vagueness epistemologist/ontologist Friedrich Waismann.\n\nThe etymology of \"defeasible\" usually refers to Middle English law of contracts, where a condition of defeasance is a clause that can invalidate or annul a contract or deed. Though \"defeat\", \"dominate\", \"defer\", \"defy\", \"deprecate\" and \"derogate\" are often used in the same contexts as \"defease,\" the verbs \"annul\" and \"invalidate\" (and \"nullify,\" \"overturn,\" \"rescind,\" \"vacate,\" \"repeal,\" \"debar\", \"void\", \"cancel\", \"countermand\", \"preempt\", etc.) are more properly correlated with the concept of defeasibility than those words beginning with the letter \"d\". Many dictionaries do contain the verb, \"to defease\" with past participle, \"defeased.\"\n\nPhilosophers in moral theory and rhetoric had taken defeasibility largely for granted when American epistemologists rediscovered Wittgenstein's thinking on the subject: John Ladd, Roderick Chisholm, Roderick Firth, Ernest Sosa, Robert Nozick, and John L. Pollock all began writing with new conviction about how \"appearance as red\" was only a defeasible reason for believing something to be red. More importantly Wittgenstein's orientation toward language-games (and away from semantics) emboldened these epistemologists to manage rather than to expurgate \"prima facie\" logical inconsistency.\n\nAt the same time (in the mid-1960s), two more students of Hart and Austin at Oxford, Brian Barry and David Gauthier, were applying defeasible reasoning to political argument and practical reasoning (of action), respectively. Joel Feinberg and Joseph Raz were beginning to produce equally mature works in ethics and jurisprudence informed by defeasibility.\n\nBy far the most significant works on defeasibility by the mid-1970s were in epistemology, where John Pollock's 1974 \"Knowledge and Justification\" popularized his terminology of \"undercutting\" and \"rebutting\" (which mirrored the analysis of Toulmin). Pollock's work was significant precisely because it brought defeasibility so close to philosophical logicians. The failure of logicians to dismiss defeasibility in epistemology (as Cambridge's logicians had done to Hart decades earlier) landed defeasible reasoning in the philosophical mainstream.\n\nDefeasibility had always been closely related to argument, rhetoric, and law, except in epistemology, where the chains of reasons, and the origin of reasons, were not often discussed. Nicholas Rescher's \"Dialectics\" is an example of how difficult it was for philosophers to contemplate more complex systems of defeasible reasoning. This was in part because proponents of informal logic became the keepers of argument and rhetoric while insisting that formalism was anathema to argument.\n\nAbout this time, researchers in artificial intelligence became interested in non-monotonic reasoning and its semantics. With philosophers such as Pollock and Donald Nute (e.g., defeasible logic), dozens of computer scientists and logicians produced complex systems of defeasible reasoning between 1980 and 2000. No single system of defeasible reasoning would emerge in the same way that Quine's system of logic became a de facto standard. Nevertheless, the 100-year headstart on non-demonstrative logical calculi, due to George Boole, Charles Sanders Peirce, and Gottlob Frege was being closed: both demonstrative and non-demonstrative reasoning now have formal calculi.\n\nThere are related (and slightly competing) systems of reasoning that are newer than systems of defeasible reasoning, e.g., belief revision and dynamic logic. The dialogue logics of Charles Hamblin and Jim Mackenzie, and their colleagues, can also be tied closely to defeasible reasoning. Belief revision is a non-constructive specification of the desiderata with which, or constraints according to which, epistemic change takes place. Dynamic logic is related mainly because, like paraconsistent logic, the reordering of premises can change the set of justified conclusions. Dialogue logics introduce an adversary, but are like belief revision theories in their adherence to deductively consistent states of belief.\n\nMany political philosophers have been fond of the word \"indefeasible\" when referring to rights, e.g., that were \"inalienable,\" \"divine,\" or \"indubitable.\" For example, in the 1776 Virginia Declaration of Rights, \"community hath an indubitable, inalienable, and indefeasible right to reform, alter or abolish government...\" (also attributed to James Madison); and John Adams, \"The people have a right, an indisputable, unalienable, indefeasible, divine right to that most dreaded and envied kind of knowledge – I mean of the character and conduct of their rulers.\"\nAlso, Lord Aberdeen: \"indefeasible right inherent in the British Crown\" and Gouverneur Morris: \"the Basis of our own Constitution is the indefeasible Right of the People.\" Scholarship about Abraham Lincoln often cites these passages in the justification of secession. Philosophers who use the word \"defeasible\" have historically had different world views from those who use the word \"indefeasible\" (and this distinction has often been mirrored by Oxford and Cambridge zeitgeist); hence it is rare to find authors who use both words.\n\nIn judicial opinions, the use of \"defeasible\" is commonplace. There is however disagreement among legal logicians whether \"defeasible reasoning\" is central, e.g., in the consideration of \"open texture\", precedent, exceptions, and \"rationales\", or whether it applies only to explicit defeasance clauses. H.L.A. Hart in \"The Concept of Law\" gives two famous examples of defeasibility: \"No vehicles in the park\" (except during parades); and \"Offer, acceptance, and memorandum produce a contract\" (except when the contract is illegal, the parties are minors, inebriated, or incapacitated, etc.).\n\nOne of the main disputes among those who produce systems of defeasible reasoning is the status of a \"rule of specificity.\" In its simplest form, it is the same rule as subclass inheritance preempting class inheritance:\n\nApproximately half of the systems of defeasible reasoning discussed today adopt a rule of specificity, while half expect that such \"preference\" rules be written explicitly by whoever provides the defeasible reasons. For example, Rescher's dialectical system uses specificity, as do early systems of multiple inheritance (e.g., David Touretzky) and the early argument systems of Donald Nute and of Guillermo Simari and Ronald Loui. Defeasible reasoning accounts of precedent (stare decisis and case-based reasoning) also make use of specificity (e.g., Joseph Raz and the work of Kevin D. Ashley and Edwina Rissland). Meanwhile, the argument systems of Henry Prakken and Giovanni Sartor, of Bart Verheij and Jaap Hage, and the system of Phan Minh Dung do not adopt such a rule.\n\nThere is a distinct difference between those who theorize about defeasible reasoning as if it were a system of confirmational revision (with affinities to belief revision), and those who theorize about defeasibility as if it were the result of further (non-empirical) investigation. There are at least three kinds of further non-empirical investigation: progress in a lexical/syntactic process, progress in a computational process, and progress in an adversary or legal proceeding.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9496", "title": "Epiphenomenalism", "text": "Epiphenomenalism\n\nEpiphenomenalism is a position on the mind–body problem which holds that physical and biochemical events within the human body (sense organs, neural impulses, and muscle contractions, for example) are causal with respect to mental events (thought, consciousness, and cognition). According to this view, subjective mental events are completely dependent for their existence on corresponding physical and biochemical events within the human body and themselves have no causal efficacy on physical events. The appearance that subjective mental states (such as intentions) influence physical events is merely an illusion. For instance, fear seems to make the heart beat faster, but according to epiphenomenalism the biochemical secretions of the brain and nervous system (such as adrenaline)—not the experience of fear—is what raises the heartbeat. Because mental events are a kind of overflow that cannot cause anything physical, yet have non-physical properties, epiphenomenalism is viewed as a form of property dualism.\n\nDuring the seventeenth century, Rene Descartes argued that animals are subject to mechanical laws of nature. He defended the idea of automatic behavior, or the performance of actions without conscious thought. Descartes questioned how the immaterial mind and the material body can interact causally. His interactionist model (1649) held that the body relates to the mind through the pineal gland. La Mettrie, Leibniz, and Spinoza all in their own way began this way of thinking. The idea that even if the animal were conscious nothing would be added to the production of behavior, even in animals of the human type, was first voiced by La Mettrie (1745), and then by Cabanis (1802), and was further explicated by Hodgson (1870) and Huxley (1874).\n\nThomas Henry Huxley agreed with Descartes that behavior is determined solely by physical mechanisms, but he also believed that humans enjoy an intelligent life. In 1874, Huxley argued that animals are conscious automata in the Presidential Address to the British Association for the Advancement of Science. Huxley proposed that psychical changes are collateral products of physical changes. He termed the stream of consciousness an \"epiphenomenon;\" like the bell of a clock that has no role in keeping the time, consciousness has no role in determining behavior.\n\nHuxley defended automatism by testing reflex actions, originally supported by Descartes. Huxley hypothesized that frogs that undergo lobotomy would swim when thrown into water, despite being unable to initiate actions. He argued that the ability to swim was solely dependent on the molecular change in the brain, concluding that consciousness is not necessary for reflex actions. According to epiphenomenalism, animals experience pain only as a result of neurophysiology.\n\nIn 1870, Huxley conducted a case study on a French soldier who had sustained a shot in the Franco-Prussian War that fractured his left parietal bone. Every few weeks the soldier would enter a trance-like state, smoking, dressing himself, and aiming his cane like a rifle all while being insensitive to pins, electric shocks, odorous substances, vinegar, noise, and certain light conditions. Huxley used this study to show that consciousness was not necessary to execute these purposeful actions, justifying the assumption that humans are insensible machines. Huxley's mechanistic attitude towards the body convinced him that the brain alone causes behavior.\n\nIn the early 1900s scientific behaviorists such as Ivan Pavlov, John B. Watson, and B. F. Skinner began the attempt to uncover laws describing the relationship between stimuli and responses, without reference to inner mental phenomena. Instead of adopting a form of eliminativism or mental fictionalism, positions that deny that inner mental phenomena exist, a behaviorist was able to adopt epiphenomenalism in order to allow for the existence of mind. George Santayana (1905) believed that all motion has merely physical causes. Because consciousness is accessory to life and not essential to it, natural selection is responsible for ingraining tendencies to avoid certain contingencies without any conscious achievement involved. By the 1960s, scientific behaviourism met substantial difficulties and eventually gave way to the cognitive revolution. Participants in that revolution, such as Jerry Fodor, reject epiphenomenalism and insist upon the efficacy of the mind. Fodor even speaks of \"epiphobia\"—fear that one is becoming an epiphenomenalist.\n\nHowever, since the cognitive revolution, there have been several who have argued for a version of epiphenomenalism. In 1970, Keith Campbell proposed his \"new epiphenomenalism\", which states that the body produces a spiritual mind that does not act on the body. How the brain causes a spiritual mind, according to Campbell, is destined to remain beyond our understanding forever (see New Mysterianism). In 2001, David Chalmers and Frank Jackson argued that claims about conscious states should be deduced a priori from claims about physical states alone. They offered that epiphenomenalism bridges, but does not close, the explanatory gap between the physical and the phenomenal realms. These more recent versions maintain that only the subjective, qualitative aspects of mental states are epiphenomenal. Imagine both Pierre and a robot eating a cupcake. Unlike the robot, Pierre is conscious of eating the cupcake while the behavior is under way. This subjective experience is often called a \"quale\" (plural qualia), and it describes the private \"raw feel\" or the subjective \"what-it-is-like\" that is the inner accompaniment of many mental states. Thus, while Pierre and the robot are both doing the same thing, only Pierre has the inner conscious experience.\n\nFrank Jackson (1982), for example, once espoused the following view:\n\nAccording to epiphenomenalism, mental states like Pierre's pleasurable experience—or, at any rate, their distinctive qualia—are epiphenomena; they are side-effects or by-products of physical processes in the body. If Pierre takes a second bite, it is not caused by his pleasure from the first; If Pierre says, \"That was good, so I will take another bite\", his speech act is not caused by the preceding pleasure. The conscious experiences that accompany brain processes are causally impotent. The mind might simply be a byproduct of other properties such as brain size or pathway activation synchronicity, which are adaptive.\n\nSome thinkers draw distinctions between different varieties of epiphenomenalism. In \"Consciousness Explained\", Daniel Dennett distinguishes between a purely metaphysical sense of epiphenomenalism, in which the epiphenomenon has no causal impact at all, and Huxley's \"steam whistle\" epiphenomenalism, in which effects exist but are not functionally relevant.\n\nA large body of neurophysiological data seems to support epiphenomenalism. Some of the oldest such data is the Bereitschaftspotential or \"readiness potential\" in which electrical activity related to voluntary actions can be recorded up to two seconds before the subject is aware of making a decision to perform the action. More recently Benjamin Libet et al. (1979) have shown that it can take 0.5 seconds before a stimulus becomes part of conscious experience even though subjects can respond to the stimulus in reaction time tests within 200 milliseconds. The conclusions of this experiment have begun to receive some backlash and criticism, mainly by neuroscientists such as Peter Tse, who claim to show that the readiness potential has nothing to do with consciousness at all. Recent research on the Event Related Potential also shows that conscious experience does not occur until the late phase of the potential (P3 or later) that occurs 300 milliseconds or more after the event. In Bregman's auditory continuity illusion, where a pure tone is followed by broadband noise and the noise is followed by the same pure tone it seems as if the tone occurs throughout the period of noise. This also suggests a delay for processing data before conscious experience occurs. Popular science author Tor Nørretranders has called the delay the \"user illusion\", implying that we only have the illusion of conscious control, most actions being controlled automatically by non-conscious parts of the brain with the conscious mind relegated to the role of spectator.\n\nThe scientific data seem to support the idea that conscious experience is created by non-conscious processes in the brain (i.e., there is subliminal processing that becomes conscious experience). These results have been interpreted to suggest that people are capable of action before conscious experience of the decision to act occurs. Some argue that this supports epiphenomenalism, since it shows that the feeling of making a decision to act is actually an epiphenomenon; the action happens before the decision, so the decision did not cause the action to occur.\nThe most powerful argument against epiphenomenalism is that it is self-contradictory: if we have knowledge about epiphenomenalism, then our brains know about the existence of the mind, but if epiphenomenalism were correct, then our brains should not have any knowledge about the mind, because the mind does not affect anything physical.\n\nHowever, some philosophers do not accept this as a rigorous refutation. For example, Victor Argonov states that epiphenomenalism is a questionable, but experimentally falsifiable theory. He argues that the personal mind is not the only source of knowledge about the existence of mind in the world. A creature (even a zombie) could have knowledge about mind and the mind-body problem by virtue of some innate knowledge. The information about mind (and its problematic properties such as qualia) could have been, in principle, implicitly \"written\" in the material world since its creation. Epiphenomenalists can say that God created immaterial mind and a detailed \"program\" of material human behavior that makes it possible to speak about the mind–body problem. That version of epiphenomenalism seems highly exotic, but it cannot be excluded from consideration by pure theory. However, Argonov suggests that experiments could refute epiphenomenalism. In particular, epiphenomenalism could be refuted if neural correlates of consciousness can be found in the human brain, and it is proven that human speech about consciousness is caused by them.\n\nSome philosophers, such as Dennett, reject both epiphenomenalism and the existence of qualia with the same charge that Gilbert Ryle leveled against a Cartesian \"ghost in the machine\", that they too are category mistakes. A quale or conscious experience would not belong to the category of objects of reference on this account, but rather to the category of ways of doing things.\n\nFunctionalists assert that mental states are well described by their overall role, their activity in relation to the organism as a whole. \"This doctrine is rooted in Aristotle's conception of the soul, and has antecedents in Hobbes's conception of the mind as a 'calculating machine', but it has become fully articulated (and popularly endorsed) only in the last third of the 20th century.\" In so far as it mediates stimulus and response, a mental function is analogous to a program that processes input/output in automata theory. In principle, multiple realisability would guarantee platform dependencies can be avoided, whether in terms of hardware and operating system or, \"ex hypothesi\", biology and philosophy. Because a high-level language is a practical requirement for developing the most complex programs, functionalism implies that a non-reductive physicalism would offer a similar advantage over a strictly eliminative materialism.\n\nEliminative materialists believe \"folk psychology\" is so unscientific that, ultimately, it will be better to eliminate primitive concepts such as \"mind,\" \"desire\" and \"belief,\" in favor of a future neuro-scientific account. A more moderate position such as J. L. Mackie's \"error theory\" suggests that false beliefs should be stripped away from a mental concept without eliminating the concept itself, the legitimate core meaning being left intact.\n\nBenjamin Libet's results are quoted in favor of epiphenomenalism, but he believes subjects still have a \"conscious veto\", since the readiness potential does not invariably lead to an action. In \"Freedom Evolves\", Daniel Dennett argues that a no-free-will conclusion is based on dubious assumptions about the location of consciousness, as well as questioning the accuracy and interpretation of Libet's results. Similar criticism of Libet-style research has been made by neuroscientist Adina Roskies and cognitive theorists Tim Bayne and Alfred Mele.\n\nOthers have argued that data such as the Bereitschaftspotential undermine epiphenomenalism for the same reason, that such experiments rely on a subject reporting the point in time at which a conscious experience and a conscious decision occurs, thus relying on the subject to be able to consciously perform an action. That ability would seem to be at odds with early epiphenomenalism, which according to Huxley is the broad claim that consciousness is \"completely without any power… as the steam-whistle which accompanies the work of a locomotive engine is without influence upon its machinery\".\n\nAdrian G. Guggisberg and Annaïs Mottaz have also challenged those findings.\n\nA study by Aaron Schurger and colleagues published in PNAS challenged assumptions about the causal nature of the readiness potential itself (and the \"pre-movement buildup\" of neural activity in general), thus denying the conclusions drawn from studies such as Libet's and Fried's.\n\nIn favor of interactionism, Celia Green (2003) argues that epiphenomenalism does not even provide a satisfactory 'out' from the problem of interaction posed by substance dualism. Although it does not entail substance dualism, according to Green, epiphenomenalism implies a one-way form of interactionism that is just as hard to conceive of as the two-way form embodied in substance dualism. Green suggests the assumption that it is less of a problem may arise from the unexamined belief that physical events have some sort of primacy over mental ones.\n\nDonald Symons dismisses epiphenomenalism from an evolutionary perspective. He says that the view that mind is an epiphenomenon of brain activity is not consistent with evolutionary theory, because if mind were functionless, it would have disappeared long ago, as it would not have been favoured by evolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54024", "title": "Equity (law)", "text": "Equity (law)\n\nIn jurisdictions following the English common law system, equity is the body of law which was developed in the English Court of Chancery and which is now administered concurrently with the common law.\n\nFor much of its history, the English common law was principally developed and administered in the central royal courts: the Court of King's Bench, the Court of Common Pleas, and the Exchequer. Equity was the name given to the law which was administered in the Court of Chancery. The Judicature Reforms in the 1870s effected a procedural fusion of the two bodies of law, ending their institutional separation. The reforms did not effect any substantive fusion, however. Judicial or academic reasoning which assumes the contrary has been described as a \"fusion fallacy\".\n\nJurisdictions which have inherited the common law system differ in their current treatment of equity. Over the course of the twentieth century some common law systems began to place less emphasis on the historical or institutional origin of substantive legal rules. In England, Australia, New Zealand, and Canada, equity remains a distinct body of law. Modern equity includes, among other things:\n\n\nThe latter part of the twentieth century saw increased debate over the utility of treating equity as a separate body of law. These debates were labelled the \"fusion wars\". A particular flashpoint in this debate centred on the concept of unjust enrichment and whether areas of law traditionally regarded as equitable could be rationalised as part of a single body of law known as the law of unjust enrichment.\n\nAfter the Norman Conquest of England in the 11th century, royal justice came to be administered in three central courts: the Court of King's Bench, the Court of Common Pleas, and the Exchequer. The common law developed in these royal courts. To commence litigation in these royal courts, it was necessary to fit one's claim within a form of action. The plaintiff would purchase a writ in the Chancery, the head of which was the Lord Chancellor. If the law provided no remedy (or no efficacious remedy), litigants could sometimes appeal directly to the King. Eventually, the King would delegate resolution of these petitions to the King's Council. These petitions were eventually delegated to the Lord Chancellor himself.\n\nIn the early history of the United States, common law was viewed as a birthright. Both the individual states and the federal government supported common law after the American Revolution. U.S. courts draw on decisions of English courts, individual state courts, and federal courts in formulating common law.\n\nBy the 14th century it appears that Chancery was operating as a court, affording remedies for which the strict procedures of the common law worked injustice or provided no remedy to a deserving plaintiff. Chancellors often had theological and clerical training and were well versed in Roman law and canon law.\n\nBy the 15th century the judicial power of Chancery was clearly recognised. Equity, as a body of rules, varied from Chancellor to Chancellor, until the end of the 16th century. After the end of the 17th century, only lawyers were appointed to the office of Chancellor. Over time, Equity developed a system of precedent much like its common-law cousin.\n\nOne area in which the Court of Chancery assumed a vital role was the enforcement of uses, a role that the rigid framework of land law could not accommodate. This role gave rise to the basic distinction between legal and equitable interests.\n\nIt was early provided that, in seeking to remove one who wrongfully entered another's land with force and arms, a person could allege disseisin (dispossession) and demand (and pay for) a writ of entry. That writ gave him the written right to re-enter his own land and established this right under the protection of the Crown if need be, whence its value. In 1253, to prevent judges from inventing new writs, Parliament provided that the power to issue writs would thereafter be transferred to judges only one writ at a time, in a \"writ for right\" package known as a form of action. However, because it was limited to enumerated writs for enumerated rights and wrongs, the writ system sometimes produced unjust results. Thus, even though the King's Bench might have jurisdiction over a case and might have the power to issue the perfect writ, the plaintiff might still not have a case if there was not a single form of action combining them. Therefore, lacking a legal remedy, the plaintiff's only option would be petitioning the King.\n\nPeople began petitioning the King for relief against unfair judgments, and as the number of petitioners rapidly grew, so the King delegated the task of hearing petitions to the Lord Chancellor. As the early Chancellors lacked formal legal training and showed little regard for precedent, their decisions were often widely diverse. In 1529, a lawyer, Sir Thomas More, was appointed as Chancellor, marking the beginning of a new era. After this time, all future Chancellors were lawyers. Beginning around 1557, records of proceedings in the Courts of Chancery were kept and several equitable doctrines developed. Criticisms continued, the most famous being 17th-century jurist John Selden's aphorism:Equity is a roguish thing: for law we have a measure, know what to trust to; equity is according to the conscience of him that is Chancellor, and as that is larger or narrower, so is equity. 'Tis all one as if they should make the standard for the measure we call a foot, a Chancellor's foot; what an uncertain measure would this be? One Chancellor has a long foot, another a short foot, a third an indifferent foot: 'tis the same thing in a Chancellor's conscience.\n\nA criticism of Chancery practice as it developed in the early medieval period was that it lacked fixed rules and that the Lord Chancellor was exercising an unbounded discretion. The counter-argument was that Equity mitigated the rigour of the common law by looking to substance rather than to form.\n\nLitigants would go 'jurisdiction shopping' and often would seek an equitable injunction prohibiting the enforcement of a common law court order. The penalty for disobeying an equitable ‘common injunction’ and enforcing a common law judgment was imprisonment.\n\nThe Chief Justice of the King's Bench, Sir Edward Coke, began the practice of issuing writs of \"habeas corpus\" that required the release of people imprisoned for contempt of chancery orders.\n\nThis tension climaxed in the Earl of Oxford's case (1615) where a judgment of Chief Justice Coke was allegedly obtained by fraud. The Lord Chancellor, Lord Ellesmere, issued a common injunction from the Chancery prohibiting the enforcement of the common law order. The two courts became locked in a stalemate, and the matter was eventually referred to the Attorney-General, Sir Francis Bacon. Sir Francis, by authority of King James I, upheld the use of the common injunction and concluded that in the event of any conflict between the common law and equity, equity would prevail. Equity's primacy in England was later enshrined in the Judicature Acts of the 1870s, which also served to fuse the courts of equity and the common law (although emphatically not the systems themselves) into one unified court system.\n\nEcclesiastical laws are a branch of English law and were English laws that dealt with matters concerning the church, this was so that religion and law was differentiated. These laws are considered an unwritten law of England and cannot be withheld in the court of law. Ecclesiastical laws are not currently established in the U.S as Common law.\n\nIn order to avoid paying land taxes and other feudal dues, lawyers developed a primitive form of trust called ‘the use’ that enabled one person (who was not required to pay tax) to hold the legal title of the land for the use of another person. The effect of this trust was that the first person owned the land under the common law, but the second person had a right to use the land under the law of equity.\n\nHenry VIII enacted the Statute of Uses in 1535 (which became effective in 1536) in an attempt to outlaw this practice and recover lost revenue. The Act effectively made the beneficial owner of the land the legal owner and therefore liable for feudal dues.\n\nThe response of the lawyers to this Statute was to create the 'use upon a use'. The Statute recognized only the first use, and so land owners were again able to separate the legal and beneficial interests in their land.\n\nFor an example, see Godwyne v. Profyt (after 1393): a petition to the Chancellor\n\nEquity remains a cornerstone of Australian private law. A string of cases in the 1980s saw the High Court of Australia re-affirm the continuing vitality of traditional equitable doctrines. The High Court has recently affirmed the importance of Equity and dismissed the suggestion that unjust enrichment has explanatory power in relation to traditional equitable doctrines such as subrogation.\n\nThe state of New South Wales is particularly well known for the strength of its Equity jurisprudence. However, it was only in 1972 with the introduction of reform to the Supreme Court Act 1970 (NSW) that empowered both the Equity and Common Law Division of the Supreme Court of NSW to grant relief in either equity or common law. In 1972 NSW also adopted one of the essential sections of the Judicature reforms, which emphasised that where there was a conflict between the common law and equity, equity would always prevail. Nevertheless, in 1984 three alumni of Sydney Law School and judges of the NSW Supreme Court, Roderick Meagher, William Gummow and John Lehane produced \"\". It remains one of the most highly regarded practitioner texts in Australia and England. The work is now in its 5th edition and edited by Dyson Heydon, former Justice of the High Court, Justice Mark Leeming of the NSW Court of Appeal, and Dr Peter Turner of Cambridge University.\n\nEquity remains a distinct part of the law of England and Wales. The main challenge to it has come from academic writers working within the law of unjust enrichment. Scholars such as Professor Birks and Professor Burrows argue that in many cases the inclusion of the label \"legal\" or \"equitable\" before a substantive rule is often unnecessary. Many English universities, such as Oxford and Cambridge, continue to teach Equity as a standalone subject. Leading practitioner texts include \"Snell's Equity\", \"Lewin on Trusts\", and \"Hayton & Underhill's Law of Trusts and Trustees\".\n\nThe courts of Scotland have never recognised a division between the normal common law and equity, and as such the Court of Session (the supreme civil court of Scotland) has exercised an equitable and inherent jurisdiction and called the \"nobile officium\". The \"nobile officium\" enables the Court to provide a legal remedy where statute or the common law are silent, and prevent mistakes in procedure or practice that would lead to injustice. The exercise of this power is limited by adherence to precedent, and when legislation or the common law already specify the relevant remedy. Thus, the Court cannot set aside a statutory power, but can deal with situations where the law is silent, or where there is an omission in statute. Such an omission is sometimes termed a \"casus improvisus\".\n\nIn India the common law doctrine of equity had traditionally been followed even after it became independent in 1947. However, in 1963 the \"Specific Relief Act\" was passed by the Parliament of India following the recommendation of the Law Commission of India and repealing the earlier \"Specific Relief Act\" of 1877. Under the 1963 Act, most equitable concepts were codified and made statutory rights, thereby ending the discretionary role of the courts to grant equitable reliefs. The rights codified under the 1963 Act were as under:\n\nWith this codification, the nature and tenure of the equitable reliefs available earlier have been modified to make them statutory rights and are also required to be pleaded specifically to be enforced. Further to the extent that these equitable reliefs have been codified into rights, they are no longer discretionary upon the courts or as the English law has it, \"Chancellor's foot\" but instead are enforceable rights subject to the conditions under the 1963 Act being satisfied. Nonetheless, in the event of situations not covered under the 1963 Act, the courts in India continue to exercise their inherent powers in terms of Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, which applies to all civil courts in India.\n\nThere is no such inherent powers with the criminal courts in India except with the High Courts in terms of Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. Further, such inherent powers are vested in the Supreme Court of India in terms of Article 142 of the Constitution of India which confers wide powers on the Supreme Court to pass orders \"as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause of matter pending before it\".\n\nIn modern practice, perhaps the most important distinction between law and equity is the set of remedies each offers. The most common civil remedy a court of law can award is monetary damages. Equity, however, enters injunctions or decrees directing someone either to act or to forbear from acting. Often, this form of relief is in practical terms more valuable to a litigant; for example, a plaintiff whose neighbor will not return his only milk cow, which had wandered onto the neighbor's property, may want that particular cow back, not just its monetary value. However, in general, a litigant cannot obtain equitable relief unless there is \"no adequate remedy at law\"; that is, a court will not grant an injunction unless monetary damages are an insufficient remedy for the injury in question. Law courts can also enter certain types of immediately enforceable orders, called \"writs\" (such as a writ of habeas corpus), but they are less flexible and less easily obtained than an injunction.\n\nAnother distinction is the unavailability of a jury in equity: the judge is the trier of fact. In the American legal system, the right of jury trial in civil cases tried in federal court is guaranteed by the Seventh Amendment \"in Suits at common law\", cases that traditionally would have been handled by the law courts. The question of whether a case should be determined by a jury depends largely on the type of relief the plaintiff requests. If a plaintiff requests damages in the form of money or certain other forms of relief, such as the return of a specific item of property, the remedy is considered legal, and a jury is available as the fact-finder. On the other hand, if the plaintiff requests an injunction, declaratory judgment, specific performance, modification of contract, or some other non-monetary relief, the claim would usually be one in equity.\n\nThomas Jefferson explained in 1785 that there are three main limitations on the power of a court of equity: \"If the legislature means to enact an injustice, however palpable, the court of Chancery is not the body with whom a correcting power is lodged. That it shall not interpose in any case which does not come within a general description and admit of redress by a general and practicable rule.\" The US Supreme Court, however, has concluded that courts have wide discretion to fashion relief in cases of equity. The first major statement of this power came in \"Willard v. Tayloe\", 75 U.S. 557 (1869). The Court concluded that \"relief is not a matter of absolute right to either party; it is a matter resting in the discretion of the court, to be exercised upon a consideration of all the circumstances of each particular case.\" \"Willard v. Tayloe\" was for many years the leading case in contract law regarding intent and enforcement. as well as equity.\n\nIn the United States today, the federal courts and most state courts have merged law and equity in the courts of general jurisdiction, such as county courts. However, the substantive distinction between law and equity has retained its old vitality. This difference is not a mere technicality, because the successful handling of certain law cases is difficult or impossible unless a temporary restraining order (TRO) or preliminary injunction is issued at the outset, to restrain someone from fleeing the jurisdiction taking the only property available to satisfy a judgment, for instance. Furthermore, certain statutes like Employee Retirement Income Security Act specifically authorize \"only\" equitable relief, which forces US courts to analyze in lengthy detail whether the relief demanded in particular cases brought under those statutes would have been available in equity.\n\nEquity courts were widely distrusted in the northeastern US following the American Revolution. A serious movement for merger of law and equity began in the states in the mid-19th century, when David Dudley Field II convinced New York State to adopt what became known as the Field Code of 1848. The federal courts did not abandon the old law/equity separation until the promulgation of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in 1938.\n\nToday three states still have separate courts for law and equity; the most notable is Delaware, whose Court of Chancery is where most cases involving Delaware corporations are decided. However, merger in some states is less than complete; some other states (such as Illinois and New Jersey) have separate divisions for legal and equitable matters in a single court. Virginia had separate law and equity dockets (in the same court) until 2006. Besides corporate law, which developed out of the law of trusts, areas traditionally handled by chancery courts included wills and probate, adoptions and guardianships, and marriage and divorce. Bankruptcy was also historically considered an equitable matter; although bankruptcy in the United States is today a purely federal matter, reserved entirely to the United States Bankruptcy Courts by the enactment of the United States Bankruptcy Code in 1978, bankruptcy courts are still officially considered \"courts of equity\" and exercise equitable powers under Section 105 of the Bankruptcy Code.\n\nAfter US courts merged law and equity, American law courts adopted many of the procedures of equity courts. The procedures in a court of equity were much more flexible than the courts at common law. In American practice, certain devices such as joinder, counterclaim, cross-claim and interpleader originated in the courts of equity. Also, the modern class action evolved out of the equitable doctrine of virtual representation, which enabled a court of equity to fully dispose of an estate even though it might contain contingent interests held by persons over which the court did not have direct jurisdiction.\n\nFor a history of equity in England, including the Statute of Uses 1535:\n\nFor a general treatise on Equity, including a historical analysis:\n\nFor a brief outline of the maxims, doctrines and remedies developed under equity:\n\n"}
{"id": "33082834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33082834", "title": "Eugène Dupréel", "text": "Eugène Dupréel\n\nEugène Dupréel (February 8, 1879 – February 14, 1967) was a Belgian philosopher. He has been professor at the Université libre de Bruxelles from 1907 to 1950, teaching logic, metaphysics, greek philosophy, moral philosophy and sociological theory. He developed an ethical theory and a theory of knowledge deeply influenced by sociology, and worked closely with the Institut de Sociologie Solvay. Leader of the \"École de Bruxelles\", he had a major influence on the argumentation theorist Chaïm Perelman and thus has been instrumental in the renewal of rhetoric.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14222722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14222722", "title": "Explanandum and explanans", "text": "Explanandum and explanans\n\nAn explanandum (a Latin term) is a sentence describing a phenomenon that is to be explained, and the explanans are the sentences adduced as explanations of that phenomenon. For example, one person may pose an \"explanandum\" by asking \"Why is there smoke?\", and another may provide an \"explanans\" by responding \"Because there is a fire\". In this example, \"smoke\" is the \"explanandum\", and \"fire\" is the \"explanans\".\n\nCarl Gustav Hempel and Paul Oppenheim (1948), in their deductive-nomological model of scientific explanation, motivated the distinction between explanans and explanandum in order to answer why-questions, rather than simply what-questions:\n\nSpecifically, they define the concepts as follows:\n\nThe crucial comment, with respect to the scientific method, is given as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "53267681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53267681", "title": "François-Xavier Bellamy", "text": "François-Xavier Bellamy\n\nFrançois-Xavier Bellamy (born 11 October 1985) is a French philosopher, award-winning author, high-school teacher and politician. He is a deputy mayor of Versailles.\n\nFrançois-Xavier Bellamy was born on 11 October 1985.\n\nBellamy was educated at the Ecole Sainte-Marie des Bourdonnais, a private school in Versailles. After two-years preparatory classes in the Lycée Henri-IV, he got into the Ecole normale supérieure, from which he graduated in 2005. He earned the agrégation in philosophy in 2008.\n\nBellamy taught philophy at the Lycée Sainte-Geneviève and the Lycée Notre-Dame de Grandchamp in Versailles in 2008. In 2009, he taught at the Lycée Auguste Renoir in Asnières-sur-Seine, the Lycée Louis Bascan in Rambouillet and the Lycée hôtelier in Guyancourt. Since 2011, he has been teaching philosophy and art history for the preparatory classes at the Lycée Blomet in Paris.\n\nBellamy is the author of three books. He won the Prix d'Aumale from the Académie française in 2014 for his first book, \"Les déshérités ou l'urgence de transmettre\". In this essay, he analyses the failure of French educational system as the result of an ideology that refuses the transmission of culture, thus creating \"disinherited\". Jean-Jacques Rousseau, René Descartes and Pierre Bourdieu would be the utmost representatives of this ideology.\n\nHe is the deputy mayor of Versailles for employment, youth and higher education. He was a candidate for the National Assembly elections in 2017, invested by The Republicans, but he lost in the second round against the candidate of En Marche!, with 48.9% vs 51.1% of the votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "34752152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34752152", "title": "G. C. Field", "text": "G. C. Field\n\nGuy Cromwell Field FBA (15 January 1887 – 28 April 1955) was a British philosopher. He was Professor of Philosophy, at the University of Bristol 1926–1952 and its Pro-Vice-Chancellor 1944–1945 and 1947–1952. He was the grandson of Jesse Collings.\n\nField published:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34921921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34921921", "title": "Gorazd Kocijančič", "text": "Gorazd Kocijančič\n\nGorazd Kocijančič (born 17 September 1964) is a freelance Slovene philosopher, poet and translator. Kocijančič is well known for his translation of the entire corpus of Plato's work into Slovene.\n\nKocijančič has published over 360 works, since 1987.\n\n\nIn his book \"Mediations\" (1996), Kocijančič expressed his understanding of a contemporary Christian philosophy stemming from the idea of a radical apophatic thought. In his book \"Between the East and the West: Four Contributions to the Ecstatics\" (2004) he formulated his understanding of the relationship between different spiritual traditions and the metaontology, gnoseology, ethics and ecclesiology of the supraconfessional, Eastern-Western Christianity. His work \"To Those Outside: Exoteric Writings 1990-2003\" (2004), is a collection of short newspaper articles, columns and book reviews published in various journals and newspapers, in which he comments on current events, newly published books and artistic events from the perspective of his anarchic philosophy of culture. For this work he received the Rožanc Award the same year it was published.\n\nKocijančič has translated into Slovene (and written upon) a Pre-Socratic verse composition from Ancient Greek by the poet and thinker Parmenides (\"Parmenides: Fragments 1995\") and \"The Elements of Theology by Proclus\" (1999). He translated and commented upon complete works of Plato (2004). He has also worked on the \"New standard translation of the Bible into Slovene\" by providing translation of and commentary to the Gospels and certain deuterocanonical books of Old Testament and the revision of the entire New Testament, and translated and annotated numerous patristic works such as \"Thoughts of the Greek Fathers on Prayer\" (1993), \"The Wisdom of the Desert\" (1994), \"Apostolic Fathers\" (1996), \"Gregory of Nyssa: Life of Macrina, Dialogue On the Soul and Resurrection\" (1996), \"Logos in Defence of the Truth: Selected Writings by the Early Christian Apologists\" (1998), \"Maximus the Confessor: Selected Works\" (2000). His last work is translation of the complete works of \"Dionysius the Areopagite\" (2009) and Boethius’ \"Consolation of Philosophy\" (2012). With others he also edited and translated Meister Eckhart's \"Sermons and Treatises\" (1996) and edited the translation of a series of books on history of medieval philosophy.\n\nHis collection of poetry \"Your names\" (2000) was published bilingually with an English translation. His other three collections are \"Thirty steps\" and \"We’re gone\" (2005), \"Certamen spirituale\" (2008) and \"Primož Trubar is leaving Ljubljana\" (2012). Many of his poems are translated in various languages and included in anthologies of Slovene poetry.\n\nHis other interests include nineteenth-century thought; for example he translated V. Solovyov's \"Spiritual foundations of life\" (2000), and provided an introduction to it titled \"The Subject and the Doctrine and contemporary currents of philosophical thought\". He also translated E. Lévinas \"Time and the Other\" (1998), and wrote an introduction to it with the title \"Other time? Different Other? Phenomenology as a hermeneutical problem\".\n\nBesides translating philosophical and theological texts and writing poetry, he has also been involved in literary translation. He has translated from Hebrew a selection of poems by the most renowned Hebrew poets of the Middle Ages; Judah ben Samuel Halevi's: \"Selected Poems\" (1998), Solomon ibn Gabirol's \"Crown of the Kingdom\" (2011). From German he has translated Rilke's \"Marienleben und Stundenbuch\", and with Vid Snoj poems by Angelus Silesius and Paul Celan. From French he has translated Paul Claudel's \"Cent phrases pour l’eventail\" and Charles Peguy. He also edited and translated an anthology of Christian Greek poetry \"Athos - The Dividing Line Between Heaven and the Earth\".\n\nIn 1997 he edited the journal \"Tretji dan\" and contributed to it until 2000, he was also an editor of its book collection. Later he founded the international multilingual electronic journal for culture and spirituality \"Logos\" Currently he is working on his own philosophical system: the first, ontological part, was published under title \"Razbitje. Sedem radikalnih esejev\" (2009), and the second under title \"Erotics, politics etc. Three essays on the soul\" (2011).\n\nGorazd Kocijančič was born in Ljubljana, Slovenia (then part of Yugoslavia) to Janez Kocijančič and Andreja Kocijančič, an ex-rector of University of Ljubljana. In 1986 he finished the study of philosophy and Greek on Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana and soon got a job as a librarian in a manuscript department of the National and University Library of Slovenia. Since 2008 he maintains a status of a \"self-employed in culture\". He translates from 10 languages (e.g. Greek, Latin and Hebrew). Beside his own works he has collaborated in translation of standard slovene translation of the Bible and has translated and commented on many Church's fathers (e.g. apostle fathers, apologetes, Origen, Evagrius Ponticus, Gregory of Nyssa, Dionysius the Areopagite, and Maximus the Confessor.\n\n"}
{"id": "5670187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5670187", "title": "Gregorio Marañón", "text": "Gregorio Marañón\n\nGregorio Marañón y Posadillo, OWL (19 May 1887 in Madrid – 27 March 1960 in Madrid) was a Spanish physician, scientist, historian, writer and philosopher. He married Dolores Moya in 1911, and they had four children (Carmen, Belén, María Isabel and Gregorio).\n\nAn austere, humanist and liberal man, he is considered one of the most brilliant Spanish intellectuals of the 20th century. Besides his erudition, he also stands out for his elegant literary style. As many other thinkers of his time, he involved himself social and politically: he was a Republican and fought the Miguel Primo de Rivera dictatorship (he was condemned to jail for a month) and showed his disagreement with Spanish communism. Moreover, he supported the Spanish Second Republic in its beginnings but he later criticised it because of its lack of cohesion among the Spanish people.\n\nProbably after going away from Madrid (around January 1937), and when asked his opinion of the republican Spain, Marañón spoke in a meeting of French intellectuals as follows: \nIn the article \"Liberalism and comunism\", published in Revue de Paris on 15 December 1937, he clearly expressed his change of opinion towards the Second Republic:\n\nFrom December 1936 to autumn of 1942, Marañón lived abroad, in a de facto exile. Back in Spain again, the dictatorship (as it did with other intellectuals) used his figure to improve its exterior image. In overall terms, the franquism respected him. Miguel Artola, in 1987, stated that the biggest political contribution of Marañón was clearly having raised the flag of freedom, in a time where no one or only a few could do it, understanding liberalism as the opposite to a specific political position. In this sense, he would state: \"Being liberal is, precisely, these two things: first, being open to understanding with those who think differently, and second, never admitting that the end justifies the means, but the other way around, the means justify the end.\" \"Therefore, liberalism is a behaviour, and so, it is much more than politics\". (Prologue of his book Liberal Essays, 1946).\nAfter the students riot of 1956, he led, with Menéndez Pidal, the first manifests who denounced from inside the political situation and asked for the return of the exiled. \nHis contribution to Medicine was early focused on endocrinology, as he was one of its forefathers. During his first year of graduate (1909) he published seven works in the Clinical Magazine of Madrid, of which only one was related to endocrinology, about the autoinmune polyendocrine syndrome. In 1910, he published five works, two of them related to endocrinology, about the Addison disease. In following years, his attraction to endocrinology only grew larger. In 1930 he published Endocrinology (Madrid: Espasa-calpe) and thirty more works in scientific journals on that speciality, of which half were works as the only author, which is remarkable taking into account the political-historical context in which Marañón was directly or indirectly involved. \nHe wrote the first treatise of Internal Medicine in Spain, along with Doctor Hernando, and his book Manual of etiologic diagnostic (1946) was one of the most widespread medicine books in the world because of its new focus on the study of diseases and its endless and unprecedented clinical contributions.\n\nBeyond his intense dedication to medicine, he wrote about almost everything: history, art, travels, cooking, clothing, hairstyle, shoes...But even if his contributions on the field of Medicine are untouchable, what makes his work eternal, universal and even more original is the discovering and description of the ethical, moral, religious, cultural, historical...side, the \"human\" side, that comes along it.\nIn his works he analysed, with a unique and unprecedented literary gender: \"biological essay\", the great human passions through historical characters, and their psychic and physiopathologic features: shyness in his book Amiel, resentment in Tiberio, power in The Count-Duke of Olivares, intrigue and treason in politics in Antonio Pérez (one of the makers of the Spanish \"black legend\"), the \"donjuanismo\" in Don Juan, etc.\nHe was inducted and collaborated in five of the eight Spanish Real Academies.\n\nThe blueprint of Marañón is, in the opinion of Ramón Menéndez Pidal, \"indelible\", on both the science domain and the relationships he built with his peers. Pedro Laín Entralgo recognised as far as five different personalities in this great doctor from Madrid: the doctor Marañón, the writer Marañón, the historian Marañón that greatly contributed to his \"universality\", the moralist Marañón and the Spanish Marañón. What makes his work even more singular is the multiplicity of profiles that he is involved in: the scientific, ethic, moral, religious, cultural, historic domains...that is, \"human\". He was a doctor for the Royal House, and for plenty of well-known people from the social life in Spain, but above it all he was a \"beneficence doctor\" (or of attention to the poorest people) at the Hospital Provincial de Madrid, nowadays called Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón, where in 1911 was appointed at his own request in the unit of infectious diseases. Along with this hospital, the biggest one in Madrid, nowadays his name stands in the front of several streets and education institutions all over Spain.\n\nThe Gregorio Marañón Foundation was established on 11 November 1988, with the aim of \"perpetuate the thinking and work of Doctor Marañón, spread the high magistrature of Medicine he worked in and promote research in the fields of Medicine and Bioethics\". Furthermore, \"it is a cornerstone of the Foundation the localization and recuperation of all the biographic and bibliographic documents to constitute a Documentary Fund available to all the learners who want to analyse and go deeper into the signification and validity of the thinking and work of Gregorio Marañón\". A Marañón Week is annually held since 1990.\nThe Marañón Week of 1999 was devoted to the topic of emotion, in 2000, held in Oviedo, was devoted to Benito Jerónimo Feijoo, in 2001, to the figure of don Juan, in 2002, held in the University Hospital Complex of Albacete, to the \"Medical Work of Marañón\", in 2006, held in Valencia, to \"Luis Vives: Spanish humanist in Europe\" and in 2009, to the \"liberal tradition\".\nOn 9 July 2010 the José Ortega y Gasset Foundation and the Gregorio Marañón Foundation fused, creating a sole organization: the José Ortega y Gasset-Gregorio Marañón Foundation, also known as the Ortega-Marañón Foundation. However, the website of the new foundation, which still stands as http://www.ortegaygasset.edu, barely reveals any activity or interest related to Marañón.\n\nIt could be taken into consideration that it was not the Foundation, but the Ateneo of Madrid, who celebrated the 50th anniversary of the death of Marañón, on 19 October 2010. In 1924 Marañón \"had been promoted to president of the Ateneo by acclamation of his partners, that viewed him as his true president, but his presidency was de facto because the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera did not allow the electoral session. After the factious assembly , not recognised by the associates, Marañón was appointed as president of the Ateneo in March of 1930.\"\n\nMarañón’s sign is named after him, a clinical sign that increases the suspicion of a substernal goiter in patients. \n\n"}
{"id": "6443800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6443800", "title": "History of Waldorf schools", "text": "History of Waldorf schools\n\nThis article on the History of Waldorf schools includes descriptions of the schools' historical foundations, geographical distribution and internal governance structures.\nIn the chaotic circumstances of post-World War I Germany, Rudolf Steiner had been giving lectures on his ideas for a societal transformation in the direction of independence of the economic, governmental and cultural realms, known as Social Threefolding, to the workers of various factories. On April 23, 1919, he held such a lecture for the workers of the Waldorf-Astoria cigarette factory in Stuttgart, Germany; in this lecture he mentioned the need for a new kind of comprehensive school. On the following day, the workers approached Herbert Hahn, one of Steiner's close co-workers, and asked him whether their children could be given such a school. Independently of this request, the owner and managing director of the factory, Emil Molt, announced his decision to set up such a school for his factory workers' children to the company's Board of Directors and asked Steiner to be the school's pedagogical consultant. The name \"Waldorf\" thus comes from the factory which hosted the first school.\n\nThe original Waldorf school was formed as an independent institution licensed by the local government as an exploratory model school with special freedoms. Steiner specified four conditions:\n\n\nOn May 13, 1919, Molt, Steiner and E.A. Karl Stockmeyer had a preliminary discussion with the Education Ministry with the aim of finding a legal structure that would allow for an independent school. Stockmeyer was then given the task of finding teachers as a foundation for the future school. At the end of August, seventeen candidates for teaching positions attended what would be the first of many pedagogical courses sponsored by the school; twelve of these candidates were chosen to be the school's first teachers. The school opened on September 7, 1919 with 256 pupils in eight grades; 191 of the pupils were from factory families, the other 65 came from interested families from Stuttgart, many of whom were already engaged in the anthroposophical movement in that city. In the following years, a numerical balance between the factory workers' and outside children was achieved; it had been an explicit goal of the social three-folding movement to create a school that bridged social classes in this way. For the first year, the school was a company school and all teachers were listed as workers at Waldorf-Astoria, by the second year the school had become an independent entity.\n\nThe Stuttgart school grew quickly, adding a grade each year of secondary education, which thus by the 1923/4 school year included grades 9-12, and adding parallel classes in all grades. By 1926 there were more than 1,000 pupils in 28 classes.\nAlready, in 1922, Steiner had brought his educational ideas to an English-speaking audience when he delivered twelve lectures at Manchester College at the Oxford Conference on the philosophy and practice of education and the imperative for a moral component. This was followed up in 1924 with a course by Steiner for teachers held at Torquay during Steiner's final visit to Britain.\n\nSchools founded in the first decade after the Stuttgart school include:\n\nA 1928 attempt to found a Waldorf school in Nuremberg met with resistance from the Bavarian Education Ministry, which stated that there was the \"no need in Bavaria for independent schools employing novel ideas, especially when they had no religious ties.\"\n\nThe Stuttgart school grew rapidly, opening parallel classes, and by 1938 schools inspired by the original school or its pedagogical principles had been founded in the United States, UK, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Norway, Austria, Hungary, and in other towns in Germany. Political interference from the Nazi regime limited and ultimately closed most Waldorf schools in Europe; the affected schools, including the original school, were reopened after the Second World War.\n\nThree-quarters of the Waldorf schools today are located in Europe; schools are now being established in Eastern Europe, where communist regimes forbade Waldorf schools until their overthrow in 1989. In the English-speaking world, there are about 200 schools in the United States, 70 in Australia and New Zealand, 40 in Great Britain, and 30 in Canada; there are also many schools in New Zealand and South Africa.\n\nGermany, the United States and the Netherlands have the largest number of schools, while Norway, Switzerland and the Netherlands have the greatest concentration of schools per population.\n\nAll independent schools in Australia receive partial government funding, including the currently approximately 40 independent Steiner-Waldorf schools. In addition, 10 schools administered by the state are currently operating Steiner programs.\nIn 2006, state-run Steiner schools in Victoria, Australia were challenged by parents and religious experts over concerns that the schools derive from a spiritual system (anthroposophy); parents and administrators, as well as Victorian Department of Education authorities, presented divergent views as to whether spiritual or religious dimensions influence pedagogical practice. If present, these would contravene the secular basis of the public education system.\n\nA detailed. History of the Australian Waldorf schools has been written.\n\nThere are more than 30 independent Waldorf schools in Canada; for a current list see here.\n\nState schools using Waldorf-based methods include:\n\nThe Chengdu Waldorf School was the first of its kind opened in China, in 2004, teaching about 500 students between the ages of three and eighteen. In total China has about 70 Waldorf schools located in its big cities.\n\nIn Finland there are 24 Steiner schools operating with 95 - 100% state financing.\n\nIn the mid-1930s, the Nazi government began to pressure independent schools in Germany to conform to National Socialist social and educational principles or else face closure. By 1937, most of the German Waldorf schools had decided to cease operation rather than compromise their approach. In 1941, the last Waldorf school operating in Germany (in Dresden) was closed by the Gestapo, as was the school in The Hague, in the occupied Netherlands.\n\nAfter the Second World War, many of the earlier schools were re-established, and new schools founded at a rapid pace. A second boom in school foundation took place beginning in the 1970s.\n\nThere are now close to 200 schools in Germany.\n\nMilestones in the development of Waldorf education include:\n\nThere are 18 Waldorf schools in Russia and 30 kindergartens. There are five Waldorf schools in Moscow, as well as Waldorf schools in Saint Petersburg, Irkutsk, Jaroslawl, Kaluga, Samara, Schukowski, Smolensk, Tomsk, Ufa, Vladimir, Voronezh, and Zelenograd]. Some are funded by the government and some are privately funded. The Association of Waldorf Schools of Russia now has 21 members.\n\nVarious headmasters, teachers, and schools in Great Britain showed an early interest in the new educational methods; as a result Rudolf Steiner held a series of three lectures - in August, 1922 (Oxford), 1923 (Ilkley) and 1924 (Torquay) - introducing Waldorf principles. A number of groups then formed either seeking to transform their existing schools along Waldorf lines (e.g. The New School, Kings Langley in Hertfordshire) or to found new institutions.\n\n\nThese four, which grew to become comprehensive schools for ages 12 through 18, became the mainstay of the Waldorf movement in Britain for many years, and they remain the only British schools to provide education up until age 18.\n\nIn 1938, a small group of refugees from the Nazis, led by Karl Konig, founded the first school (in Britain) providing special education on Waldorf principles. These Steiner special schools, part of the Camphill movement of communities for the handicapped, spread widely throughout Britain and, later, in many other countries in the world.\n\nBeginning in the late 1940s, further schools were founded, including \n\nA increase in new schools occurred in the 1970s, and another in the 1990s, continuing today. After repeated initiatives to open a school in London; there are now four such schools: \n\nIn July 2008, the Hereford Waldorf School in Much Dewchurch, Herefordshire, U.K. secured funding to become a state-funded academy specializing in the natural environment, to be known as The Steiner Academy Hereford.\n\nThere are now about 40 Waldorf/Steiner schools in Great Britain and Ireland, which together make up the Steiner Waldorf Schools Fellowship.\n\nMilestones in the early years of Waldorf education include:\n\nThree more Waldorf schools were founded in the 1950s, and five in the 1960s. In 1968 the original Association of Waldorf Schools was founded with these twelve schools. With the 1970s came expansive growth leading to the more than 250 schools and early childhood programs today . Thirty-seven new high schools have been started in the last decade. The growth of Waldorf schools in the U.S. has followed a smooth curve, roughly doubling every ten years.\n\nIn the 1990s, the first public Waldorf school was established when a principal of an inner-city public school in Milwaukee became interested in using Waldorf methods. The school is now known as the Urban Waldorf Elementary School of Milwaukee. The next public school to incorporate Waldorf methodology was the John Morse Waldorf Method Magnet School in Sacramento, California. A number of public school systems in other cities, including Los Angeles, have also established public Waldorf schools.\n\nWaldorf charter schools have been established in California and Arizona.\n\nIn the 1990s, a Waldorf school was established in the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota as a bridge between the traditional spirituality of Native Americans and modern American society.\n\nThe U.S., Canadian and Mexican schools are represented by the Association of Waldorf Schools of North America. Waldorf and Steiner are registered and protected names, and in the United States, the Association of Waldorf Schools of North America (AWSNA) protects this usage. Schools that use substantial portions of the methodology of Waldorf education but are not independent enough to apply all of the latter's principles refer to themselves as \"Waldorf-method,\" or \"Waldorf Inspired\" schools; these are primarily found as charter schools which are part of the public school system in the United States and, as government schools, are not included in the above figures.\n\nAs of 2011 there are 44 publicly funded Waldorf schools in the United States; some of these are state-run public schools, while 18 are charter schools. \n\nThe majority of Waldorf schools are independent, so each school may have different structures and policies.\n\nAs a general rule, however, independent Waldorf schools are administered through the collaborative leadership of teachers. The primary governing body is thus a College or Council of Teachers working to provide at least the pedagogical direction. In some countries, including the United States, Boards of Trustees are responsible for other aspects of administration, particularly ensuring the schools' financial and legal soundness. A move towards shared responsibility of governance with the hiring of administrators, particularly an Administrative Chair and Finance Chair, who work in conjunction with the Faculty Chair to create the Leadership Team, has seen traction and schools are finding individual balances of structure and governance between the collaborative teachers groups and the administrators. Much of the compliance with legal frameworks and the traditional responsibilities of a Human Resources Department are being shifted to these administrators, along with traditional school needs such as Admissions/Enrollment, systems and protocols.\n\nA number of schools in the United States (Waldorf public and charter programs), England (Steiner Academies), New Zealand, and Australia (Steiner stream) have close links with or are overseen by State education authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "379318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379318", "title": "Holy Cross Sermons", "text": "Holy Cross Sermons\n\nThe Holy Cross Sermons () are the oldest extant prose text in the Polish language, dating probably from the late 13th, or from the early 14th century. The documents are named after the place where they were originally housed – the Holy Cross Monastery () in Poland's Holy Cross Mountains (Polish: \"Góry Świętokrzyskie\"). They were discovered in striped parchment pieces in 1890 by Aleksander Brückner, in the binding of a Latin language codex, which contained the Acts of the Apostles and the Apocalypse. The sermons were first published in 1891, in a \"Philological Works\" (\"Prace Filologiczne\") magazine. In 1934, facsimiles of the text were published by the Polish Academy of Learning, and in 2009, new, full edition of the sermons was issued, prepared by professor Pawel Stepien.\n\nEven though Aleksander Bruckner claimed that the text was originally housed at the Holy Cross Monastery, this hypothesis has been criticized by some scholars. According to historian Wladyslaw Semkowicz, the codex, already strengthened with parchment stripes, was delivered to a Benedictine monastery at Leżajsk, in circa 1459. The Leżajsk monastery, however, was not the location where the sermons were written. Language analysis, carried out by Polish experts proved that the text was probably written in a monastery in Miechów, which was famous for its sermons and library, and which cooperated with the Leżajsk monastery. On the other hand, if sermons were written in the 13th century, then their Miechów origins are dubious. At that time, this monastery was made of monks of Czech and German origin, who either did not speak Polish, or spoke it poorly, and who were unable to write down the complicated text.\n\nSome time in the 15th century, the sermons were cut into strips, which were used to strengthen the binding of a Latin language codex. Most likely, other parts of the sermons were used in bindings of other books. This practice was common at the time, as parchment was both durable and expensive, so publications regarded as unnecessary or unimportant were frequently used to strengthen other, more precious books.\n\nAleksander Bruckner discovered the sermons on March 25, 1890, at the Imperial Public Library in St. Petersburg, Russian Empire. He was studying an ancient Latin codex, which had belonged to the Warsaw University library, and was confiscated by the Russians after the November Uprising (1831). In the binding of the book, Bruckner to his surprise found eighteen long strips. After putting them together, it turned out that they contained one whole, and five incomplete sermons. They were brought back to Poland in 1925. During World War II, the Holy Cross Sermons were taken to Canada for safekeeping. They are now preserved at the National Library in Warsaw (#8001), and their photocopy may be seen at The Digital National Library Polona (See electronic version of the Holy Cross Sermons).\n\nThe sermons, on the occasions of Church holy days, comprise fragments of five texts and one complete sermon (for St. Catherine's Day). Written on parchment, they had been cut into thin strips and used to reinforce the binding of a 15th-century Latin manuscript. The fifteen strips, put together by Bruckner, make one sheet (117 × 173 mm), and the remaining three strips make the bottom of a second sheet.\n\nLinguistically, the Holy Cross Sermons reflect an older stage of the language than the 14th century, the manuscript being a copy of original sermons composed some time from the end of the 13th century. They manifest a variety of linguistic archaisms, for instance:\n\n1) Hard-stem declension of the pronoun \"*tъnъ\" 'this one': Nom. sg. \"ten\", Gen. sg. \"togo\", Dat. sg. \"tomu\";\n\n2) Aorist and Imperfect:\n\n- 1 sg. aor. \"widziech\" (cf. Lat. perf. \"vidi\") < PSl. \"*viděti\" 'to see, to look', \"*viděxъ\" 'I saw, I looked (at); I have seen, I have looked (at)';\n\n- 3 sg. aor. \"postawi\" (cf. Lat. perf. \"posuit\") < PSl. \"*postaviti\" 'to place', \"*postavi\" 'he/she/it placed, has placed';\n\n- 3 pl. aor. \"pośpieszychą się\" (cf. Lat. perf. \"venerunt\") < PSl. \"*pospěšiti\" 'to go, to go somewhere', \"*pospěšixǫ\" 'they went, they went somewhere, they went out';\n\n- 3 sg. impf. \"biesze\" (cf. Lat. impf. \"erat\") < PSl. \"*byti\" 'to be', \"*běaše\" 'he/she/it was';\n\n- 3 sg. impf. \"siedziesze\" (cf. Lat. impf. \"sedebat\") < PSl. \"*sěděti\" 'to sit', \"*sěděaše\" 'he/she/it sat, was sitting'.\n\nThe strips contain whole sermon for St. Catherine's Day (November 25), and parts of sermons for the following days:\n\n"}
{"id": "25074417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25074417", "title": "Hōrin-ji (Harima)", "text": "Hōrin-ji (Harima)\n\nWith the patronage of the Akamatsu clan, Sesson Yūbai was able to become the founder of a number of provincial Buddhist temple-monasteries, including Hōrin-ji in Harima.\n\nHōrin-ji was ranked among the provincial \"jissatsu\" by the Muromachi shogunate, which encouraged its \"shugo\" vassals to found monasteries in their domains.\n\nProminent among Yūbai's followers were Akamatsu Norimura (1277-1350) and his son Akamatsu Norisuke (1314-1371).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1288229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1288229", "title": "Johann Wilhelm Ritter", "text": "Johann Wilhelm Ritter\n\nJohann Wilhelm Ritter (16 December 1776 – 23 January 1810) was a German chemist, physicist and philosopher. He was born in Samitz (Zamienice) near Haynau (Chojnów) in Silesia (then part of Prussia, since 1945 in Poland), and died in Munich.\n\nJohann Wilhelm Ritter's first involvement with science began when he was 14 years old. He became an apprentice to an apothecary in Liegnitz (Legnica), and acquired a deep interest in chemistry. He began medicine studies at the University of Jena in 1796. A self-taught scientist, he made many experimental researches on chemistry, electricity and other fields.\n\nRitter belonged to the German Romantic movement. He was personally acquainted with Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Alexander von Humboldt, Johann Gottfried Herder and Clemens Brentano. He was strongly influenced by Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, who was the main philosopher of the \"Naturphilosophie\" movement. In 1801, Hans Christian Ørsted visited Jena and became his friend. Several of Ritter's researches were latter reported by Ørsted, who was also strongly influenced by the philosophical outlook of \"Naturphilosophie\".\n\nRitter's first scientific researches concerned some galvanic phenomena. He interpreted the physiological effects observed by Luigi Galvani and other researchers as due to the electricity generated by chemical reactions. His interpretation is closer to the one accepted nowadays than those proposed by Galvani (“animal electricity”) and Alessandro Volta (electricity generated by metallic contact), but it was not accepted at the time. \n\nIn 1800, shortly after the invention of the voltaic pile, William Nicholson and Anthony Carlisle discovered that water could be decomposed by electricity. Shortly afterward, Ritter also discovered the same effect, independently. Besides that, he collected and measured the amounts of hydrogen and oxygen produced in the reaction. He also discovered the process of electroplating. In 1802 he built his first electrochemical cell, with 50 copper discs separated by cardboard disks moistened by a salt solution.\n\nRitter made several self-experiments applying the poles of a voltaic pile to his own hands, eyes, ears, nose and tongue. He also described the difference between the physiological effects of the two poles of the pile, although some of the effects he reported were not confirmed afterwards.\n\nMany of Ritter's researches were guided by a search for polarities in the several \"forces\" of nature, and for the relation between those \"forces\" – two of the assumptions of \"Naturphilosophie\". In 1801, after hearing about the discovery of \"heat rays\" (infrared radiation) by William Herschel (in 1800), Ritter looked for an opposite (cooling) radiation at the other end of the visible spectrum. He did not find exactly what he expected to find, but after a series of attempts he noticed that silver chloride was transformed faster from white to black when it was placed at the dark region of the Sun's spectrum, close to its violet end. The \"chemical rays\" found by him were afterwards called ultraviolet radiation.\n\nSome of Ritter's researches were acknowledged as important scientific contributions, but he also claimed the discovery of many phenomena that were not confirmed by other researchers. For instance: he reported that the Earth had electric poles that could be detected by the motion of a bimetallic needle; and he claimed that he could produce the electrolysis of water using a series of magnets, instead of Volta's piles.\n\nRitter had no regular income and never became a university professor, although in 1804 he was elected a member of the Bavarian Academy of Science (in Munich). He married in 1804 and had four children, but he was unable to provide the needs of his family. Plagued by financial difficulties and suffering from weak health (perhaps aggravated by his electrical self-experimentation), he died young in 1810, as a poor man.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11963600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11963600", "title": "José Correia da Serra", "text": "José Correia da Serra\n\nJosé Francisco Correia da Serra (6 June 1750 – 11 September 1823) was a Portuguese Abbot, polymath – philosopher, diplomat, politician and scientist. In some circumstances, he was also known as \"Abbé Correa.\" The plant genus Correa is named in his honour.\n\nCorreia da Serra was born at Serpa, in Alentejo, in 1750, and was educated at Rome, where he took holy orders. In 1777 he returned to Lisbon, where he was one of the founders of the Academia das Ciências de Lisboa in 1779 (then called \"Academia Real das Ciências de Lisboa\"; \"Royal Academy of Sciences of Lisbon\").\n\nHis published writings brought him into conflict with reactionary members of the religious and political hierarchy in Portugal.\n\nIn 1786, he fled to France, and remained there till the death of Portuguese King-consort Pedro III, when he again returned to his homeland, but political difficulties forced him to leave the country again. \nHe went to England, where he found a protector in Sir Joseph Banks, who was President of the Royal Society. \nWith Banks' support, he was easily elected a fellow of the society. \nIn 1797, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1797, he was appointed secretary to the Portuguese embassy in London, but a quarrel with the ambassador drove him once more to Paris (1802). He would stay in Paris for the next eleven years.\n\nIn 1813, he left Europe for the New World, arriving first in New York City. \nHis travels took him several times to Monticello, the home of former President Thomas Jefferson where his political views found a fulsome reception. \nHe was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1815.\n\nIn 1816, he was made Portuguese minister-plenipotentiary at Washington D.C., but resided in Philadelphia.\n\nIn 1820, he was recalled home to Portugal, where he was appointed a member of the financial council, and elected to a seat in the \"General Extraordinary and Constituent \"Cortes\" of the Portuguese Nation\", but he died only three years later.\n\n\nArticles:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3208981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3208981", "title": "Kazimierz Kelles-Krauz", "text": "Kazimierz Kelles-Krauz\n\nKazimierz Kelles-Krauz (22 March 1872 – 24 June 1905) was a Polish philosopher and sociologist, member of the Polish Socialist Party. He was one of the most significant Marxist thinkers at the end of the 19th century.\n\nKelles-Krauz was born in Szczebrzeszyn, Russian Empire and died in Pernitz, Austria-Hungary.\n\nHis greatest contribution to sociology is the \"law of retrospective revolution\" according to which \"the ideals with which each reform movement tries to replace existing social norms are always similar to the norms of a more or less distant past\".\n\nYale's Timothy Snyder argues that Kelles-Krauz, writing two decades before Hans Kohn and Carlton Hayes, ought to be among the small cluster of turn-of-the-century thinkers regarded as the pioneers of the modern study of nationalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "38345495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38345495", "title": "Kierkegaard Circle", "text": "Kierkegaard Circle\n\nThe Kierkegaard Circle at Trinity College, University of Toronto, is a philosophical society founded in 1986 whose purpose is to promote the study of the philosophy and theology of Søren Kierkegaard in Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "9007167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9007167", "title": "Kyudo Nakagawa", "text": "Kyudo Nakagawa\n\nKyudo Nakagawa (中川 球童, February 12, 1927—December 29, 2007), or Nakagawa Kyūdō, was a Japanese-born Rinzai rōshi who for many years led Soho Zen Buddhist Society, Inc. in Manhattan's Lower East Side. \n\nA Dharma heir of the late Soen Nakagawa—who is of no familial relation—Kyudo first became a Zen monk at age eight. He undertook Buddhist studies at Japan's renowned Komazawa University and entered Gukei-ji. Then, at age thirty, Kyudo entered Ryūtaku-ji temple and trained under Soen Nakagawa. In 1968 he moved to Jerusalem to lead a center Soen had opened in Israel called Kibutsu-ji, where he stayed on for thirteen years. Kyudo then returned to Ryūtaku-ji briefly and moved to New York City, where he led the Soho Zen Buddhist Society, Inc. He also made occasional trips to England now and then to lead the London Zen Society. \n\nAfter Soen Roshi's death in 1984, Sochu Suzuki Roshi became abbot of Ryūtaku-ji. When Sochu Roshi died in 1990, Kyudo became abbot of Ryūtaku-ji. He died on December 29, 2007 at the age of eighty. The Soho Zen Buddhist Society, Inc. in Manhattan closed its practice center, the Soho Zendo at 464 West Broadway, following Kyudo's death. Among others, he trained Lawrence Shainberg, author of \"Ambivalent Zen\", which discusses Kyudo's teachings and provides an intimate portrait of this Zen master. A collection of Kyudo Nakagawa, Roshi's talks can be found on line here: http://www.engaged-zen.org/articles/Kyudo.html\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5557955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5557955", "title": "List of philosophers (A–C)", "text": "List of philosophers (A–C)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26890819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26890819", "title": "Lizzie Fricker", "text": "Lizzie Fricker\n\nLizzie Fricker is a fellow and tutor at Magdalen College, Oxford, and lectures in the Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford. Her research interests are in philosophy of language, philosophy of mind and theory of knowledge.\n\nShe has made contributions to the discussion of the Philosophical problems of testimony and self-knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "34393613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34393613", "title": "Mental factors (Buddhism)", "text": "Mental factors (Buddhism)\n\nMental factors (; ; Tibetan Wylie: \"sems byung\"), in Buddhism, are identified within the teachings of the Abhidhamma (Buddhist psychology). They are defined as aspects of the mind that apprehend the quality of an object, and that have the ability to color the mind. Within the Abhidhamma, the mental factors are categorized as formations () concurrent with mind (). Alternate translations for mental factors include \"mental states\", \"mental events\", and \"concomitants of consciousness\".\n\nMental factors are aspects of the mind that apprehend the quality of an object and have the ability to color the mind. Geshe Tashi Tsering explains:\n\nThe relationship between the main mind (Sanskrit: citta) and the mental factors can be described by the following metaphors:\n\nTraleg Rinpoche states that the main distinction between the mind and mental factors is that the mind apprehends an object as a whole, whereas mental factors apprehend an object in its particulars.\n\nWithin Buddhism, there are many different systems of abhidharma (commonly referred to as Buddhist psychology), and each system contains its own list of the most significant mental factors. These lists vary from system to system both in the number of mental factors listed, and in the definitions that are given for each mental factor. These lists are not considered to be exhaustive; rather they present significant categories and mental factors that are useful to study in order to understand how the mind functions.\n\nSome of the main commentaries on the Abhidharma systems that are studied today include:\n\nIn Mahavibhasa and Abhidharma-kosa, 46 mental factors have been listed as below:\nThe ten mahā-bhūmika are common to all consciousness.\n\nThe ten kuśala-mahā-bhūmikādharmāḥ accompany the wholesome consciousnesses (kusala citta).\n\nThese six one would accompany with kleśa.\n\nWithin the Theravāda tradition, the Abhidhammattha-sangaha enumerates the fifty-two mental factors listed below:\n\nNote that this list is not exhaustive; there are other mental factors mentioned in the Theravada teachings. This list identifies fifty-two important factors that help to understand how the mind functions.\n\nThe seven universal mental factors (\"sabbacittasādhāraṇa cetasikas\") are common (\"sādhāraṇa\") to all consciousness (\"sabbacitta\"). Bhikkhu Bodhi states: \"These factors perform the most rudimentary and essential cognitive functions, without which consciousness of an object would be utterly impossible.\"\n\nThese seven factors are:\n\nThe six occasional or particular mental factors (\"pakiṇṇaka cetasikas\") are ethically variable mental factors found only in certain consciousnesses. They are:\n\nThe unwholesome mental factors (\"akusala cetasikas\") accompany the unwholesome consciousnesses (\"akusala citta\").\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi states:\n\nThe fourteen unwholesome mental factors are:\n\nThe beautiful mental factors (\"sobhana cetasikas\") accompany the wholesome consciousnesses (\"kusala citta\").\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi states:\n\nThe twenty-five beautiful mental factors (\"sobhana cetasikas\") are:\n\nAbhidharma studies in the Mahayana tradition are based on the Sanskrit Sarvāstivāda abhidharma system. Within this system, the Abhidharma-samuccaya identifies fifty-one mental factors:\n\nThe five universal mental factors (\"sarvatraga\") are:\n\nThese five mental factors are referred to as \"universal\" or \"omnipresent\" because they operate in the wake of every mind situation. If any one of these factors is missing, then the experience of the object is incomplete. For example:\n\nThe five object-determining mental factors (\"viṣayaniyata\") are:\n\nThe five factors are referred to as \"object-determining\" is because these factors each grasp the specification of the object. When they are steady, there is certainty concerning each object.\n\nThe eleven virtuous (\"kuśala\") mental factors are:\n\nThe six root unwholesome factors (\"mūlakleśa\") are:\n\nThe twenty secondary unwholesome factors (\"upakleśa\") are:\n\nThe four changeable mental factors (\"aniyata\") are:\n\nAlternate translations for the term \"mental factors\" (Sanskrit: \"caitasika\") include:\n\n\n\nMahayana mental factors:\n\nTheravada mental factors:\n\nTheravada Abhidharma:\n\nDefinitions for \"caitikas\" or \"cetisakas\"\n"}
{"id": "1598292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1598292", "title": "Modal realism", "text": "Modal realism\n\nModal realism is the view propounded by David Kellogg Lewis that all possible worlds are real in the same way as is the actual world: they are \"of a kind with this world of ours.\" It is based on the following tenets: possible worlds exist; possible worlds are not different in kind from the actual world; possible worlds are irreducible entities; the term \"actual\" in \"actual world\" is indexical, i.e. any subject can declare their world to be the actual one, much as they\nlabel the place they are \"here\" and the time they are \"now\".\n\nThe term goes back to Leibniz's theory of possible worlds, used to analyse necessity, possibility, and similar modal notions. In short: the actual world is regarded as merely one among an infinite set of logically possible worlds, some \"nearer\" to the actual world and some more remote. A proposition is \"necessary\" if it is true in all possible worlds, and \"possible\" if it is true in at least one. To note, however, though the concept does sound similar to modern notions of a multiverse, in reality these two concepts are quite distinct - a multiverse would constitute a single possible world.\n\nAt the heart of David Lewis's modal realism are six central doctrines about possible worlds:\n\n\nLewis backs modal realism for a variety of reasons. First, there doesn't seem to be a reason not to. Many abstract mathematical entities are held to exist simply because they are useful. For example, sets are useful, abstract mathematical constructs that were only conceived in the 19th century. Sets are now considered to be objects in their own right, and while this is a philosophically unintuitive idea, its usefulness in understanding the workings of mathematics makes belief in it worthwhile. The same should go for possible worlds. Since these constructs have helped us make sense of key philosophical concepts in epistemology, metaphysics, philosophy of mind, etc., their existence should be accepted on pragmatic grounds.\n\nLewis believes that the concept of alethic modality can be reduced to talk of real possible worlds. For example, to say \"\"x\" is possible\" is to say that there exists a possible world where \"x\" is true. To say \"\"x\" is necessary\" is to say that in all possible worlds \"x\" is true. The appeal to possible worlds provides a sort of economy with the least number of undefined primitives/axioms in our ontology.\n\nTaking this latter point one step further, Lewis argues that modality cannot be made sense of \"without\" such a reduction. He maintains that we cannot determine that \"x\" is possible without a conception of what a real world where \"x\" holds would look like. In deciding whether it is possible for basketballs to be inside of atoms we do not simply make a linguistic determination of whether the proposition is grammatically coherent, we actually think about whether a real world would be able to sustain such a state of affairs. Thus we require a brand of modal realism if we are to use modality at all.\n\nIn philosophy possible worlds are usually regarded as real but abstract possibilities, or sometimes as a mere metaphor, abbreviation, or \"façon de parler\" for sets of counterfactual propositions.\n\nLewis himself not only claimed to take modal realism seriously (although he did regret his choice of the expression \"modal realism\"), he also insisted that his claims should be taken literally:\n\nBy what right do we call possible worlds and their inhabitants disreputable entities, unfit for philosophical services unless they can beg redemption from philosophy of language? I know of no accusation against possibles that cannot be made with equal justice against sets. Yet few philosophical consciences scruple at set theory. Sets and possibles alike make for a crowded ontology. Sets and possibles alike raise questions we have no way to answer. [...] I propose to be equally undisturbed by these equally mysterious mysteries.\n\nHow many [possible worlds] are there? In what respects do they vary, and what is common to them all? Do they obey a nontrivial law of identity of indiscernibles? Here I am at a disadvantage compared to someone who pretends as a figure of speech to believe in possible worlds, but really does not. If worlds were creatures of my imagination, I could imagine them to be any way I liked, and I could tell you all you wished to hear simply by carrying on my imaginative creation. But as I believe that there really are other worlds, I am entitled to confess that there is much about them that I do not know, and that I do not know how to find out.\n\nWhile it may appear to be a simply extravagant account of modality, modal realism has proven to be historically quite resilient. Nonetheless, a number of philosophers, including Lewis himself, have produced criticisms of (what some call) \"extreme realism\" about possible worlds.\n\nLewis's own extended presentation of the theory (\"On the Plurality of Worlds\", 1986) raises and then counters several lines of argument against it. That work introduces not only the theory, but its reception among philosophers. The many objections that continue to be published are typically variations on one or other of the lines that Lewis has already canvassed.\n\nHere are some of the major categories of objection:\n\n\nA pervasive theme in Lewis's replies to the critics of modal realism is the use of tu quoque argument: \"your\" account would fail in just the same way that you claim mine would. A major heuristic virtue of Lewis's theory is that it is sufficiently definite for objections to gain some foothold; but these objections, once clearly articulated, can then be turned equally against other theories of the ontology and epistemology of possible worlds.\n\nRobert Stalnaker, while he finds some merit in Lewis's account of possible worlds, finds the position to be ultimately untenable. He himself advances a more \"moderate\" realism about possible worlds, which he terms modal actualism (since it holds that all that exists is in fact actual, and that there are no \"merely possible\" entities). In particular, Stalnaker does not accept Lewis's attempt to argue on the basis of a supposed analogy with the epistemological objection to mathematical Platonism that believing in possible worlds as Lewis imagines them is no less reasonable than believing in mathematical entities such as sets or functions.\n\nSaul Kripke described modal realism as \"totally misguided\", \"wrong\", and \"objectionable\". Kripke argued that possible worlds were not like distant countries out there to be discovered; rather, we stipulate what is true according to them. Kripke also criticized modal realism for its reliance on counterpart theory, which he regarded as untenable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "426453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426453", "title": "Nisargadatta Maharaj", "text": "Nisargadatta Maharaj\n\nNisargadatta Maharaj (17 April 1897 – 8 September 1981), born Maruti Shivrampant Kambli, was a Hindu guru of nondualism, belonging to the Inchagiri Sampradaya, a lineage of teachers from the Navnath Sampradaya and Lingayat Shaivism.\n\nThe publication in 1973 of \"I Am That\", an English translation of his talks in Marathi by Maurice Frydman, brought him worldwide recognition and followers, especially from North America and Europe.\n\nNisargadatta was born on 17 April 1897 to Shivrampant Kambli and Parvati bai, in Bombay. The day was also \"Hanuman Jayanti\", the birthday of Hanuman, hence the boy was named 'Maruti', after him. His parents were followers of the Varkari sampradaya, an egalitarian Vaishnavite bhakti tradition which worships Vithoba. His father, Shivrampant, worked as a domestic servant in Mumbai and later became a petty farmer in Kandalgaon.\n\nMaruti Shivrampant Kambli was brought up in Kandalgaon, a small village in the Sindhudurga district of Maharashtra, with his two brothers, four sisters and deeply religious parents. In 1915, after his father died, he moved to Bombay to support his family back home, following his elder brother. Initially he worked as a junior clerk at an office but quickly he opened a small goods store, mainly selling beedis – leaf-rolled cigarettes, and soon owned a string of eight retail shops. In 1924 he married Sumatibai and they had three daughters and a son.\n\nIn 1933, he was introduced to his guru, Siddharameshwar Maharaj, the head of the Inchegiri branch of the Navnath Sampradaya, by his friend Yashwantrao Baagkar. His guru told him, \"You are not what you take yourself to be...\". Siddharameshwar initiated him into the Inchegiri Sampradaya, giving him meditation-instruction and a mantra, which he immediately began to recite. Siddharameshwar gave Nisargadatta instructions for self-enquiry which he followed verbatim, as he himself recounted later:\nFollowing his guru's instructions to concentrate on the feeling \"I Am\", he used all his spare time looking at himself in silence, and remained in that state for the coming years, practising meditation and singing devotional bhajans:\nAfter an association that lasted hardly two and a half years, Siddharameshwar Maharaj died on November 9, 1936. In 1937, Maharaj left Mumbai and travelled across India. After eight months he returned to his family in Mumbai in 1938. On the journey home his state of mind changed, realizing that \"nothing was wrong anymore.\" He spent the rest of his life in Mumbai, maintaining one shop to earn an income.\n\nBetween 1942–1948 he suffered two personal losses, first the death of his wife, Sumatibai, followed by the death of his daughter. He started to give initiations in 1951, after a personal revelation from his guru, Siddharameshwar Maharaj.\n\nAfter he retired from his shop in 1966, Nisargadatta Maharaj continued to receive and teach visitors in his home, giving discourses twice a day, until his death on 8 September 1981 at the age of 84, of throat cancer.\n\nNisargadatta gave talks and answered questions at his humble flat in Khetwadi, Mumbai, where a mezzanine room was created for him to receive disciples and visitors. This room was also used for daily chantings, bhajans (devotional songs), meditation sessions, and discourses.\n\nCathy Boucher notes that the Inchagiri Sampradaya emphasized mantra meditation from its inception in the early 19th century, but that the emphasis shifted toward a form of Self-enquiry with Sri Siddharameshwar. Nevertheless,\nBoucher also notes that Nisargadatta adopted a different mode of instruction, through questions and answers, for his western disciples. Many of Nisargadatta Maharaj's talks were recorded, and formed the basis of \"I Am That\" as well as of the several other books attributed to him.\n\nAccording to Timothy Conway, Nisargadatta's only subject was\nNisargadatta explains:\nAccording to Conway, awareness of the Absolute could be regained by\nNisargadatta was critical of a merely intellectual approach to nondual Truth. He had a strong devotional zeal towards his own guru, and suggested the path of devotion, Bhakti yoga, to some of his visitors, as he believed the path of knowledge, Jnana yoga was not the only approach to Truth. Nisargadatta also emphasized love of Guru and God, and the practice of mantra repetition and singing bhajans, devotional songs.\n\nAccording to Timothy Conway, Nisargadatta often read Marathi scriptures: Nath saint Jnanesvar's Amritanubhava and Jnanesvari (Gita Commentary); Varkari Sants, namely Eknatha’s Bhagavat (\"Eknathi Bhagavata\", a rewrite of the \"Bhagavad Purana\"), Ramdas' Dasbodha, and Tukaram's poems; but also the Yoga Vasistha, Adi Shankara's treatises, and some major Upanishads.\n\nNisargadatta taught what has been called \"Nisarga Yoga\" (Nisarga can be translated as “nature”). In \"I Am That\", Nisarga Yoga is defined as living life with “harmlessness,” “friendliness,” and “interest,” abiding in “spontaneous awareness” while being “conscious of effortless living.” The practice of this form of Yoga involves meditating on one’s sense of \"I am\", \"being\" or \"consciousness\" with the aim of reaching its ultimate source prior to this sense, which Nisargadatta called the \"Self\".\n\nThe second edition of \"I Am That\" includes an epilogue titled Nisarga Yoga by Maurice Frydman which includes this passage:“This dwelling on the sense ‘I am’ is the simple, easy and natural Yoga, the Nisarga Yoga. There is no secrecy in it and no dependence; no preparation is required and no initiation. Whoever is puzzled by his very existence as a conscious being and earnestly wants to find his own source, can grasp the ever-present sense of ‘I am’ and dwell on it assiduously and patiently, till the clouds obscuring the mind dissolve and the heart of being is seen in all its glory.”Nisargadatta did not prescribe a specific practice for Self-knowledge but advised his disciples, \"Don't pretend to be what you are not, don't refuse to be what you are.\" By means of self-enquiry in the tradition of Advaita Vedanta, he advised, \"Why don't you enquire how real are the world and the person?\" Nisargadatta frequently spoke about the importance of having the \"inner conviction\" about one's true nature and without such Self-knowledge one would continue to suffer. Nisargadatta claimed that the names of the Hindu deities Shiva, Rama and Krishna were the names of nature (Nisarga) personified, and that all of life arises from the same non-dual source or Self. Remembrance of this source was the core of Nisargadatta's message:‘You are not your body, but you are the consciousness in the body, because of which you have the awareness of ‘I am’. It is without words, just pure beingness. It has become soul of the world. In the absence of your consciousness, the world will not be experienced. Hence, you are the consciousness… remember what you have heard… meditate on it. Meditation means you have to hold consciousness by itself. The consciousness should give attention to itself. This consciousness is Ishwara. As there is no God other than this consciousness, worship it.’ ‘The knowledge “I am” is God. It is Ishwara, as well as maya. Maya is God’s power. All the names of God are of this consciousness only in different forms. Remember the fact “I am not the body” and get firmly established. That is the sign of a true seeker.’The Seven Principles of Nisarga Yoga (As identified by Nic Higham, 2018) \n\n\nAmong his best known disciples are Maurice Frydman, Sailor Bob Adamson, Stephen Howard Wolinsky (born January 31, 1950), Jean Dunn, Alexander Smit (Sri Parabrahmadatta Maharaj) (1948-1998), Douwe Tiemersma (January 7, 1945 - January 3, 2013), Robert Powell, Timothy Conway, Wayne Dyer and Ramesh Balsekar (1917-2009). A less well known disciple is Sri Ramakant Maharaj (born July 8, 1941), who received the naam mantra from Nisargadatta in 1962, spent the next 19 years with the master. and claims to be \"the only Indian direct disciple of Shri Nisargadatta Maharaj\" who offers initiation into this lineage. Sachin Kshirsagar, who has published a series of books on Nisargadatta in the Marathi language and also re-published \"Master of Self Realization\", says to have received the Naam (Mantra) in a dream from Shree Nisargadatta Maharaj in Oct., 2011.\n\nDavid Godman gives the following account of an explanation by Nisargadatta of the succession of Gurus in the Inchagiri Sampradaya:\nAccording to David Godman, Nisargadatta was not allowed by Siddharameshwar to appoint a successor, because he \"wasn't realised himself when Siddharameshwar passed away.\" Nisargadatta started to initiate others in 1951, after receiving an inner revelation from Siddharamesvar. Nisargadatta himself explains:\n\n\"Printed sources\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13675678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13675678", "title": "Noema", "text": "Noema\n\nNoema (plural: \"noemata\") derives from the Greek word νόημα meaning \"thought\" or \"what is thought about.\" Edmund Husserl used \"noema\" as a technical term in phenomenology to stand for the object or content of a thought, judgement, or perception, but its precise meaning in his work has remained a matter of controversy.\n\nIn \"\" (1913), Husserl introduced the terms \"noema\" and \"noesis\" to designate correlated elements of the structure of any intentional act — for example, an act of perceiving, or judging, or remembering:\n\n\"Corresponding to all points to the manifold data of the real (\"reelle\") noetic content, there is a variety of data displayable in really pure (\"wirklicher reiner\") intuition, and in a correlative 'noematic content,' or briefly 'noema' — terms which we shall henceforth be continually using.\"\n\nEvery intentional act has noetic content (or a noesis — from the Greek nous, \"mind\"). This noetic content, to which the noema corresponds, is that mental act-process (e.g., an act of liking, of judging, of meaning, etc.) which becomes directed towards the intentionally held object (e.g., the liked as liked, judged as judged, or meant as meant). That is to say, every act has, as part of its formation, a noematic correlate, which is the object of the act — that which is intended by it. In other words, every intentional act has an \"I-pole (the origin of the noesis)\" and an \"object-pole (or noema).\" Husserl also refers to the noema as the \"Sinn\" or sense (meaning) of the act, and sometimes appears to use the terms interchangeably. Nevertheless, the \"Sinn\" does not represent what Husserl calls the \"full noema\": \"Sinn\" belongs to the noema, but the full noema is the object of the act \"as meant\" in the act, the perceived object \"as\" perceived, the judged object \"as\" judged, and so on.\n\nIn other words, the noema seems to be whatever is intended by acts of perception or judgement in general, whether it be \"a material object, a picture, a word, a mathematical entity, another person\" precisely \"as\" being perceived, judged or otherwise thought about.\n\nIn fact, commentators have been unable to achieve consensus on exactly what a noema is. In a recent survey, David Woodruff Smith distinguished four different schools of thought. On one view, to say that the noema is the intentional object of an act of consciousness is to mean that it quite literally is an object. Husserl’s student Roman Ingarden, for example, held that both ordinary objects, like chairs and trees, and intentional objects, like a chair precisely as it appears to me, or even a fictional tree, actually exist, but have different \"modes\" of existence.\n\nAn alternative view, developed primarily by Aron Gurwitsch, emphasizes the noema of perceptual experience. Most ordinary objects can be perceived in different ways and from different perspectives (consider looking at a tree from several different positions). For Gurwitsch, what is perceived in each such act is a noema, and the object itself – the tree, say – is to be understood as the collection or system of noemata associated with it. This view has similarities with phenomenalism.\n\nSokolowski, alternatively, holds that a noema is just the actual object of perception or judgment itself, considered phenomenologically. In other words, the noema of the judgment that “this chair is uncomfortable” is neither an entity (the chair considered as uncomfortable) which exists in addition to the chair itself (but with a different mode of existence) – the Ingarden view; nor is the noema of such a judgment identified with a particular tactile perception of the chair – which along with other perceptions constitutes the chair as such – the Gurwitsch view. For Sokolowski, the noema is not a separate entity at all, but the chair itself \"as\" in this instance perceived or judged. This seems consistent with Husserl’s emphasis on the noema as the \"perceived as such…remembered as such…judged as such…\"\n\nAnalytic philosopher Dagfinn Føllesdal, in an influential 1969 paper, proposed a Fregean interpretation of the noema, which has been developed extensively by Ronald McIntyre and David Woodruff Smith. This school of thought agrees that the noema is not a separate entity, but rather than identifying it with the actual object of the act (of perceiving, judging, etc.), phenomenologically understood, this view suggests that it is a mediating component of the act itself. It is what gives the act the sense it has. Indeed, Føllesdal and his followers suggest that the noema is a generalized version of Frege’s account of linguistic meaning, and in particular of his concept of sense (\"Sinn\"). Just as Frege held that a linguistic expression picks out its reference by means of its sense, so Husserl believed that conscious acts generally – not merely acts of meaning but also acts of perception, judgment, etc. – are intentionally directed toward objects by means of their noemata. On this view, the noema is not an object, but an abstract component of certain types of acts.\n\nSokolowski has continued to reject this approach, arguing that \"(t)o equate sense and noema would be to equate propositional and phenomenological reflection. It would take philosophy simply as the critical reflection on our meanings or senses; it would equate philosophy with linguistic analysis.\" Robert C. Solomon attempted to reconcile the perception-based interpretation of the Gurwitsch school with the Fregean interpretation of noema as sense, suggesting that while \"(i)t has now become virtually axiomatic among phenomenologists that the \"Sinne\" [senses] of experience stand independent of the \"Bedeutungen\" [meanings] of linguistic expressions. It has become all but axiomatic among analytic philosophers that there is no meaning apart from language. It is the concept of the noema that provides the link between them. The noema embodies both the changing phases of experience and the organizing sense of our experience. But these two 'components' are not separable, for all experience requires meaning, not as an after-the-fact luxury in reflective judgements but in order for it to be experience \"of\" anything.”\n\n\"Noema\" is in the \"OED\", which has shown its use for more than three centuries. It first was used in English in the field of rhetoric to denote \"a figure of speech whereby something stated obscurely is nevertheless intended to be understood or worked out.\" In other words, a \"noema\" in rhetoric is obscure speech or speech that only yields meaning upon detailed reflection.\n\nPeacham's 1577 \"Garden of Eloquence\" used it this way, \n\"Noema, when we doe signify some thing so privily that the hearers must be fayne to seeke out the meaning by long consideration.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "13325115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13325115", "title": "Not in Heaven", "text": "Not in Heaven\n\nNot in Heaven (\"lo ba-shamayim hi\") is a phrase found in a Biblical verse, , which encompasses the passage's theme, and takes on additional significance in rabbinic Judaism.\n\nIn its literal or plain meaning, the verse means that God's commands are not overwhelming but rather close to human hearts and abilities to obey. As noted in the \"New Oxford Annotated Bible,\" \"The covenant demand is not beyond human reach or understanding but has been graciously revealed... 'the word is near you.'\" The full verse states: \"It is not in heaven, that you should say, 'Who will go up to heaven for us, and get it for us so that we may hear it and observe it?' In general, the verse conforms with how \"... the deuteronomic tradition believed its Torah to be an immediately accessible wisdom, neither distant nor wondrous.\"\n\nThe phrase \"not in Heaven\" is understood to justify man's authority to interpret the Torah. The Talmud explains \"[The Torah] is not in Heaven\" to mean that the meaning of the Torah itself is to be uncovered not by prophets, or even God's miracles or words, but by man's interpretation and decision-making. In the story of the Oven of Akhnai, \"Rabbi Yehoshua affirmed the independence of man's interpretation from divine intervention since this is what God wills. In support he adduces the biblical statement that the Torah is 'not in heaven' ().\"\n\nIn the academic study of Jewish law, the verse \"not in Heaven\" serves as the Biblical grounding for the jurisprudential structure of halakhah (Jewish law). The source for Rabbinic authority is really from (According to the law which they shall teach you, and according to the judgment which they shall tell you, you shall do). As one author explains, thanks to the midrashic reading of the verse, \"...God himself acquiesced in His exclusion from the halakhic process. Having revealed His will in Sinai in the \"grundnorm,\" He Himself, according to the Rabbinic explanation, entrusted the interpretation of His will to the Sages.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30091567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30091567", "title": "Online Consciousness Conference", "text": "Online Consciousness Conference\n\nThe Online Consciousness Conference held at Consciousness Online was founded in 2008 by Richard Brown, then a graduate student at the CUNY Graduate Center. The conference was inspired by and partially modeled on the Online Philosophy Conference started by Thomas Nadellhoffer and Eddie Nahmias, with one major difference being the heavy use of homemade video and audio presentations, and another difference being the restricted focus of the conference on consciousness studies as opposed to all of philosophy.\n\nThe first conference was held February 20-March 4, 2009 with the theme \"Philosophers Facing Phenomenal Consciousness\" and a keynote given by David M. Rosenthal. Papers from this conference were subsequently published in the Journal of Consciousness Studies. The second conference was held February 19-March 5, 2010 with the theme \"Lessons and Limits from the Empirical Study of Consciousness\" with keynote talks by Hakwan Lau (psychology Columbia) with commentary by Ned Block, David Rosenthal and David Chalmers, and Collin Clifford (psychology University of Sydney). Papers from it are due to be published in Consciousness and Cognition. The third conference was held February 18-March 4, 2011 with the theme \"Neurophilosophy and the Philosophy of Neuroscience\" and featured invited talks from Paul Churchland, Kathleen Akins, Stevan Harnad and Jesse Prinz. \n\nPast presentations and the discussion at the conference is preserved online and can be viewed at Consciousness Online.\n"}
{"id": "42999230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42999230", "title": "Open justice", "text": "Open justice\n\nOpen justice is a legal principle describing legal processes characterized by openness and transparency. The term has particular emphasis in legal systems based on British law, such as in the United Kingdom, Commonwealth countries such as South Africa and Canada and Australia, and former British colonies such as the United States. The term has several closely related meanings: it is seen as a fundamental right guaranteeing liberty; it describes guidelines for how courts can be more transparent; and it sometimes identifies an ideal situation. In a courtroom, it means steps to promote transparency such as letting the public see and hear trials as they happen in real time, televising trials as they happen, videotaping proceedings for later viewing, publishing the content and documents of court files, providing transcripts of statements, making past decisions available for review in an easy-to-access format, publishing decisions, and giving reporters full access to files and participants so they can report what happens. The principle includes efforts to try to make what happens in the court understandable to the public and the press.\n\nIn Canada, open justice is referred to as the open court principle.\n\nThe principle is viewed as an underlying or core principle in British law. It has a long history dating back hundreds of years, and it has been traced to decisions made before the signing of the Magna Carta in 1215. Today the concept is so widely accepted that there is a general presumption that there should be judicial openness, such that openness is the rule, with secret or obscured proceedings being considered as exceptions needing to be justified. The rise of social media websites such as Facebook has opened new ways for court cases to be made public; for example, in Australia, courts have considered having websites with live videos as well as blogs by retired judges to \"preserve the concepts of open justice\" in the digital age. In recent years, when governments try to cope with thorny problems such as terrorism, there are concerns that the principle of open justice can be undermined relatively easily by national security concerns. There are concerns that if new secrecy guidelines harden into precedents, that it might be hard to restore the \"centuries old system of open justice\".\n\nProponents of open justice assert numerous benefits. An overarching benefit is that it keeps courts behaving properly. Openness acts as a safeguard for the proper administration of justice. According to philosopher Jeremy Bentham, open justice is the \"keenest spur to exertion and the surest of all guards against improbity.\" Knowledge that court trials are regularly public encourages further attendance by the public. Further, openness can mean more accurate decisions during a trial; for example, the proceedings can spur a witness to come forth, or encourage others to submit new evidence or dispute publicized statements. Openness reduces the chance that the judgment is a mistake or that a case might have to be re-tried because of a subsequent sanction of contempt. Proponents argue that open justice benefits democracy in a general sense because citizens can see how particular laws affect particular people, and therefore citizens are in a better position to advise lawmakers about such laws. It helps ensure public confidence in legal decision-making, according to proponents. Proponents of open justice have argued that public scrutiny permits those interested to \"tap into the collective wisdom of what passes for fairness in similar cases\". It facilitates a comparison of cases.\n\nA British judge commented:\n\nStill, practical considerations often mean that the ideal of open justice must be weighed against other values such as privacy and cost and national security.\n\nThere are some cases in which publicity in a courtroom proceeding can be detrimental. In some cases, courts have opted to keep trials secret in proceedings against persons charged with terrorism, to protect its intelligence gathering methods and contacts from exposure. In a case in Britain, in which a soldier was on trial for murdering an Afghan insurgent, there was an effort to keep the trial secret to protect him from possible future retribution, but there were calls for the identity of the soldier to be publicized based on the principle of open justice. In situations when aspects of trials are kept secret, critics favoring open justice have argued that the secrecy is not needed for national security but is \"nothing more than a useful drape to cover the inconvenient or the merely embarrassing.\" Lawyers have often referred to the principle of open justice when disagreeing with a decision that was made, or calling for a retrial. In the United Kingdom, courts have tried to find the right balance between openness and secrecy, particularly in sensitive cases. In the United States, there have been concerns that the principle of open justice has not been applied to cases of immigrants \"wrongly ensnared in the post-9/11 law enforcement dragnet\" who were denied access to lawyers and relatives and sometimes deported after secret removal proceedings.\n\nThere are other factors which sometimes must be balanced against the need for open justice. For example, there are situations in which the release of confidential information such as private financial records might harm the reputation of one of the parties. In other situations, it may be necessary to protect the privacy of a minor. A further case in which openness is seen as unnecessary are when legal matters involve uncontentious information unrelated to public issues, such as the financial division of an estate after a death. Another factor sometimes working against the ideal of open justice is complexity; according to one view, court proceedings over time \"have evolved into a complex system that is hard for outsiders to understand.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the Bridgegate scandal in New Jersey, an appellate judge ruled against releasing the identities of some persons involved in the scandal, on the grounds of being \"sensitive to the privacy and reputation interests of uncharged third parties\"; that is, releasing names to the media might unfairly tarnish reputations without a trial.\n\nAnother judge commented on tradeoffs which sometimes work against openness:\n\nThere is an \"Open Justice Initiative\" within the legal community to make justice more transparent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6010829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6010829", "title": "Otto Gross", "text": "Otto Gross\n\nOtto Hans Adolf Gross (17 March 1877 – 13 February 1920) was an Austrian psychoanalyst. A maverick early disciple of Sigmund Freud, he later became an anarchist and joined the utopian Ascona community. \n\nHis father Hans Gross was a judge turned pioneering criminologist. Otto initially collaborated with him, and then turned against his determinist ideas on character.\n\nA champion of an early form of anti-psychiatry and sexual liberation, he also developed an anarchist form of depth psychology (which rejected the civilising necessity of psychological repression proposed by Freud). He adopted a modified form of the proto-feminist and neo-pagan theories of Johann Jakob Bachofen, with which he attempted to return civilization to a 'golden age' of non-hierarchy. Gross was ostracized from the larger psychoanalytic movement, and was not included in histories of the psychoanalytic and psychiatric establishments. He died in poverty.\n\nGreatly influenced by the philosophy of Max Stirner and Friedrich Nietzsche and the political theories of Peter Kropotkin, he in turn influenced D. H. Lawrence (through Gross's affair with Frieda von Richthofen), Franz Kafka and other artists, including Franz Jung and other founders of Berlin Dada. His influence on psychology was more limited. Carl Jung claimed his entire worldview changed when he attempted to analyse Gross and partially had the tables turned on him.\n\nHe became addicted to drugs in South America where he served as a naval doctor. He was hospitalized several times for drug addiction, sometimes losing his guardianship of himself to his father in the process. As a Bohemian drug user from youth, as well as an advocate of free love, he is sometimes credited as a founding grandfather of 20th Century Counterculture.\n\nCarl Jung credited Gross with having described two general types – \"inferiority with shallow consciousness\" and \"inferiority with contracted consciousness\" – that very closely resemble what Jung described as the extraverted feeling and introverted thinking types a decade later. Despite having issues with Gross's theoretical assumptions of a secondary cell function and the \"individual\" nature of a person's passion, Jung credited Gross with major advances in typological and psychological theory.\n\nIn his 1913 work \"A Contribution to the study of Psychological Types\", Jung devoted a paragraph to Otto Gross's contributions.\nThe relation he [Gross] established between manic-depressive insanity and the type with a shallow consciousness shows that we are dealing with extraversion, while the relation between the psychology of the paranoiac and the type with a contracted consciousness indicates the identity with introversion (Jung, [1921] 1971: par. 879).\nIn Jung's monumental work \"Psychological Types\", all of chapter VI, \"The Type Problem in Psychopathology\", analyzes and reconciles Gross's theory as expressed in \"Die zerebrale Sekundärfunktion\" (1902) and \"Über psychopathische Minderwertigkeit\" (1903). \nGross deserves full credit for being the first to set up a simple and consistent hypothesis to account for this [the extraverted] type (Jung, [1921] 1971: par. 466).\n\nOtto Gross, played by Vincent Cassel, is one of the characters in the 2011 historical film \"A Dangerous Method\", which focused on the relations between Jung, Sabina Spielrein and Freud. As depicted in the film, Gross considerably influenced not only Jung's theories but also Jung's private life, helping Jung to shed his inhibitions and start an extra-marital affair with Spielrein, Jung's patient who became his colleague and one of the first female psychoanalysts.\n\nGross died of pneumonia, possibly related to drug addiction, in Berlin on 13 February 1920, after being found in the street, near-starved and freezing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2894716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2894716", "title": "Pathological lying", "text": "Pathological lying\n\nPathological lying (also called pseudologia fantastica and mythomania) is a behavior of habitual or compulsive lying. It was first described in the medical literature in 1891 by Anton Delbrueck. Although it is a controversial topic, pathological lying has been defined as \"falsification entirely disproportionate to any discernible end in view, may be extensive and very complicated, and may manifest over a period of years or even a lifetime\".\n\nDefining characteristics of pathological lying include\n\nSome psychiatrists distinguish compulsive from pathological lying, while others consider them equivalent; yet others deny the existence of compulsive lying altogether; this remains an area of considerable controversy.\n\nDiagnosing pathological lying can be difficult. Psychologists are trained to understand the issues this diagnosis presents as a disorder. It is listed in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\", third edition. It is a stand-alone disorder as well as a symptom of other disorders such as psychopathy and antisocial, narcissistic, and histrionic personality disorders, but people who are pathological liars may not possess characteristics of the other disorders.\n\nIt has been shown through lie detector tests that PF (\"pseudologia fantastica\") patients exhibit arousal, stress, and guilt from their deception. This is different from psychopaths, who experience none of those reactions. People affected by antisocial disorder lie for external personal profit in the forms of money, sex, and power. PF is strictly internal. The difference between borderline personality disorder and PF is that BPD patients desperately try to cope with their feeling of abandonment, mistreatment, or rejection by making empty threats of suicide or false accusations of abandonment. Pathological liars do not feel rejected; they have high levels of self-assurance that help them lie successfully. Unlike those with histrionic personality, pathological liars are more verbally dramatic than sexually flamboyant. Narcissists think they have achieved perfection and are unempathetic to others. PF patients do not show these anti-social behaviors; they often lie because they think their life is not interesting enough. The only diagnosis in our current system where purposeless, internally motivated deception is listed is axis I factitious disorder. This diagnosis deals with people who lie about having physical or psychological disorders. People with PF tend to lie about their identities and past history. Since the symptoms do not match up, the individual may go undiagnosed. Though they could well be diagnosed under the catch-all rubric of unspecified personality disorder (ICD-10 code F69) or perhaps even better under ICD-10 code F68.8 \"Other specified disorder of adult personality and behaviour\" as this defines itself as \"This category should be used for coding any specified disorder of adult personality and behaviour that cannot be classified under any one of the preceding headings\". Here the specified disorder is the lying for psychological reasons (not material ones e.g. money etc.) and the behavior would also need to meet the necessary conditions to be viewed as a psychiatric illness.\n\nPathological lying is in Factor 1 of the Psychopathy Checklist (PCL).\n\nLying is the act of both knowingly and intentionally or willfully making a false statement. Normal lies are defensive and are told to avoid the consequences of truth telling. They are often white lies that spare another's feelings, reflect a pro-social attitude, and make civilized human contact possible. Pathological lying can be described as a habituation of lying. It is when an individual consistently lies for no personal gain.\n\nThere are many consequences of being a pathological liar. Due to lack of trust, most pathological liars' relationships and friendships fail. If this continues to progress, lying could become so severe as to cause legal problems, including, but not limited to, fraud.\n\nThe average age of onset is 16 years when the level of intelligence is average or above average. Sufferers have also shown above average verbal skills as opposed to performance abilities. Thirty percent of subjects had a chaotic home environment, where a parent or other family member had a mental disturbance. Its occurrence was found by the study to be equal in women and men. Forty percent of cases reported central nervous system abnormality such as epilepsy, abnormal EEG findings, ADHD, head trauma, or CNS infection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27600534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27600534", "title": "Peter Blokhuis", "text": "Peter Blokhuis\n\n"}
{"id": "25220453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25220453", "title": "Pierre Cally", "text": "Pierre Cally\n\nPierre Cally (25 September 1630 – 31 December 1709) was a French Catholic Cartesian philosopher and theologian.\n\nHe was born at Mesnil-Hubert near Argentan, now Orne, France. In 1660 he was appointed professor of philosophy and eloquence in the University of Caen, and in 1675, president of the Collège des Arts in the same city. In 1684 he assumed charge of the parish of Saint-Martin. He was an associate of Pierre Daniel Huet, who converted him to Cartesianism, and Jean Renaud de Segrais. Cally died 31 December 1709.\n\nHe wrote a course of philosophy, \"Universæ philosophiæ institutiones\" (Caen, 1695), in which the theories of Descartes are explained and defended. He worked for the conversion of Protestants, and gave conferences in which he endeavoured to solve their difficulties. For the same purpose, and in reply to the Jesuit Louis Le Valois, he composed a book on the Eucharist, \"Durand commenté, ou accord de la philosophie avec la théologie touchant la transsubstantiation de l'eucharistie\" (Caen, 1700). In it he denies the existence of absolute accidents and, instead of transubstantiation, admits a transformation. Before and after the consecration the matter of the bread remains the same; by the consecration the matter of the bread becomes the matter of the body of Christ. A publisher in Caen was asked to print sixty copies of the work to be sent to competent judges before making it public. In fact, eight hundred copies were printed immediately and sold. At once the book became the subject of many discussions, and was bitterly denounced. On 30 March 1701, François de Nesmond, bishop of Bayeux condemned seventeen propositions taken from Cally's work as leading to heresy concerning transubstantiation. Cally made a public retraction on 21 April of the same year.\n\nHe also wrote\n\n\nand published a new edition with commentaries of Boethius's work, \"De consolatione philosophiae\" (Caen, 1695).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19612751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19612751", "title": "Reviews in Science and Religion", "text": "Reviews in Science and Religion\n\nReviews in Science and Religion is published by the Science and Religion Forum. Issues appear twice a year. The journal primarily contains reviews of books on the relations of religion and science. The journal was established in the 1970s\n\n"}
{"id": "2191319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2191319", "title": "Rhododendron canadense", "text": "Rhododendron canadense\n\nRhododendron canadense, the rhodora, is a deciduous flowering shrub that is native to northeastern North America.\n\nToday's botanists consider the rhodora to be a distant relative of the other North American members of its genus, but the difference in floral structure did lead 19th century taxonomists to assign the plant its own genus \"Rhodora\". Its closest relative is \"Rhododendron vaseyi\" from the Appalachian Mountains, which differs in having 7 stamens. DNA sequencing shows that R. vaseyi is not related to R. canadense, but more to R. albrechtii.\n\nIt reaches a mature height of 0.5–1.2 m (approximately 1–3 feet). In early spring, it produces pinkish-purple flowers in clusters of 2–6 together; each flower is 2–3 cm (approximately 1 inch) in diameter, with a five-lobed purple corolla. The flowers are unusual in comparison with other species of the genus \"Rhododendron\" found in northeastern North America. Most rhododendrons of the region have tubular flowers with 5 stamens each, while \"R. canadense\" has 10 stamens housed inside a zygomorphic corolla. The leaves open only after the flowers have bloomed and wilted; they are narrow oval, 2–6 cm long and 1–2 cm broad. When not in flower, it can still be identified by its peculiar, orange-brown seed cases, 1–1.2 cm long.\n\nThe wild distribution of the rhodora begins at its easternmost extreme in Canada in Newfoundland and extends into eastern Ontario and the United States, where it has its most famous home in New England and also occurs naturally in New York, New Jersey, and at high altitudes in the Appalachian Mountains further south to Pennsylvania. It thrives in the moist, acidic soils of bogs, swamps, and clearings in woodlands.\n\nFor a long time, the species was regarded as a botanical icon of New England. The Transcendentalist writer Ralph Waldo Emerson, who spent his life in Concord, Massachusetts, paid homage to it in his poem \"The Rhodora: On Being Asked Whence Is the Flower\" (1834, pub. 1847). In this reflective lyric, the poet arrives at the epiphany that the beauty of the rhodora exists not only for its own sake but also discloses the mystical unity of all creation under God. The poet embraces this unity in his parting words to the rhodora: \"The self-same Power that brought me there brought you\". The composer Mary Lynn Lightfoot later set the poem to music in a song of the same name for a women's choir.\n\n\"Rhodora\" is also the name of the journal of the Harvard-affiliated New England Botanical Club, which is a peer reviewed scientific publication dedicated to the flora of North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "47929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47929", "title": "Strange loop", "text": "Strange loop\n\nA strange loop is a cyclic structure that goes through several levels in a hierarchical system. It arises when, by moving only upwards or downwards through the system, one finds oneself back where one started. \nStrange loops may involve self-reference and paradox. The concept of a strange loop was proposed and extensively discussed by Douglas Hofstadter in \"Gödel, Escher, Bach\", and is further elaborated in Hofstadter's book \"I Am a Strange Loop\", published in 2007.\n\nA tangled hierarchy is a hierarchical consciousness system in which a strange loop appears.\n\nA strange loop is a hierarchy of levels, each of which is linked to at least one other by some type of relationship. A strange loop hierarchy is \"tangled\" (Hofstadter refers to this as a \"heterarchy\"), in that there is no well defined highest or lowest level; moving through the levels, one eventually returns to the starting point, i.e., the original level. Examples of strange loops that Hofstadter offers include: many of the works of M. C. Escher, the \"Canon 5. a 2\" from Bach's Musical Offering, the information flow network between DNA and enzymes through protein synthesis and DNA replication, and self-referential Gödelian statements in formal systems.\n\nIn \"I Am a Strange Loop\", Hofstadter defines strange loops as follows:\n\nAnd yet when I say \"strange loop\", I have something else in mind — a less concrete, more elusive notion. What I mean by \"strange loop\" is — here goes a first stab, anyway — not a physical circuit but an abstract loop in which, in the series of stages that constitute the cycling-around, there is a shift from one level of abstraction (or structure) to another, which feels like an upwards movement in a hierarchy, and yet somehow the successive \"upward\" shifts turn out to give rise to a closed cycle. That is, despite one's sense of departing ever further from one's origin, one winds up, to one's shock, exactly where one had started out. In short, a strange loop is a paradoxical level-crossing feedback loop. (pp. 101-102)\n\nStrange loops take form in human consciousness as the complexity of active symbols in the brain inevitably leads to the same kind of self-reference which Gödel proved was inherent in any complex logical or arithmetical system in his incompleteness theorem. Gödel showed that mathematics and logic contain strange loops: propositions that not only refer to mathematical and logical truths, but also to the symbol systems expressing those truths. This leads to the sort of paradoxes seen in statements such as \"This statement is false,\" wherein the sentence's basis of truth is found in referring to itself and its assertion, causing a logical paradox.\n\nHofstadter argues that the psychological self arises out of a similar kind of paradox. We are not born with an \"I\" – the ego emerges only gradually as experience shapes our dense web of active symbols into a tapestry rich and complex enough to begin twisting back upon itself. According to this view the psychological \"I\" is a narrative fiction, something created only from intake of symbolic data and its own ability to create stories about itself from that data. The consequence is that a perspective (a mind) is a culmination of a unique pattern of symbolic activity in our nervous systems, which suggests that the pattern of symbolic activity that makes identity, that constitutes subjectivity, can be replicated within the brains of others, and perhaps even in artificial brains.\n\nThe \"strangeness\" of a strange loop comes from our way of perception, because we categorize our input in a small number of \"symbols\" (by which Hofstadter means groups of neurons standing for one thing in the outside world). So the difference between the video-feedback loop and our strange loops, our \"I\"s, is that while the former converts light to the same pattern on a screen, the latter categorizes a pattern and outputs its essence, so that as we get closer and closer to our essence, we get further down our strange loop.\n\nHofstadter thinks our minds appear to us to determine the world by way of \"downward causality\", which refers to a situation where a cause-and-effect relationship in a system gets flipped upside-down. Hofstadter says this happens in the proof of Gödel's incompleteness theorem:\nMerely from knowing the formula's meaning, one can infer its truth or falsity without any effort to derive it in the old-fashioned way, which requires one to trudge methodically \"upwards\" from the axioms. This is not just peculiar; it is astonishing. Normally, one cannot merely look at what a mathematical conjecture \"says\" and simply appeal to the content of that statement on its own to deduce whether the statement is true or false. (pp. 169-170)\nHofstadter claims a similar \"flipping around of causality\" appears to happen in minds possessing self-consciousness. The mind perceives itself as the cause of certain feelings (\"I\" am the source of my desires), while according to popular scientific models, feelings and desires are strictly caused by the interactions of neurons.\n\nHofstadter points to Bach's \"Canon per Tonos\", M. C. Escher's drawings \"Waterfall\", \"Drawing Hands\", \"Ascending and Descending\", and the liar paradox as examples that illustrate the idea of strange loops, which is expressed fully in the proof of Gödel's incompleteness theorem.\n\nThe \"chicken or the egg\" paradox is perhaps the best-known strange loop problem.\n\nThe \"ouroboros\", which depicts a dragon eating its own tail, is perhaps one of the most ancient and universal symbolic representations of the reflexive loop concept.\n\nA Shepard tone is another illustrative example of a strange loop. Named after Roger Shepard, it is a sound consisting of a superposition of tones separated by octaves. When played with the base pitch of the tone moving upwards or downwards, it is referred to as the \"Shepard scale\". This creates the auditory illusion of a tone that continually ascends or descends in pitch, yet which ultimately seems to get no higher or lower. In a similar way a sound with seemingly ever increasing tempo can be constructed, as was demonstrated by Jean-Claude Risset.\nVisual illusions depicting strange loops include the Penrose stairs and the Barberpole illusion.\n\nA quine in software programming is a program that produces a new version of itself without any input from the outside. A similar concept is metamorphic code.\n\nEfron's dice are four dice that are intransitive under gambler's preference. In other words, the dice are ordered A > B > C > D > A, where \"x\" > \"y\" means \"a gambler prefers \"x\" to \"y\"\".\n\nThe liar paradox and Russell's paradox also involve strange loops, as does René Magritte's painting \"The Treachery of Images\".\n\nThe mathematical phenomenon of polysemy has been observed to be a strange loop. At the denotational level, the term refers to situations where a single entity can be seen to \"mean\" more than one mathematical object. See Tanenbaum (1999).\n\n\"The Stonecutter\" is an old Japanese fairy tale with a story that explains social and natural hierarchies as a strange loop.\n"}
{"id": "192723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192723", "title": "The Mind's I", "text": "The Mind's I\n\nThe Mind's I: Fantasies and reflections on self and soul is a 1981 collection of essays and other texts about the nature of the mind and the self, edited with commentary by philosophers Douglas R. Hofstadter and Daniel C. Dennett. The texts range from early philosophical and fictional musings on a subject that could seemingly only be examined in the realm of thought, to works from the twentieth century where the nature of the self became a viable topic for scientific study.\n\nJeremy Burman, while calling this \"a wonderful book\", described it as popularizing a non-metaphorical reading of Richard Dawkins' proposals regarding memes, leading to widespread misunderstanding (in the form of memetics) and the reification of the original idea-as-replicator metaphor.\n\nThe book's 27 chapters are each made up of a previously published work by authors such as Jorge Luis Borges, Alan Turing, Richard Dawkins, Raymond Smullyan, John Searle, Stanisław Lem, Thomas Nagel (as well as Hofstadter and Dennett themselves), each followed up by a commentary by Hofstadter and/or Dennett. Dennett and Hofstadter both support the idea that we can learn much about human minds and souls by exploring human mentality in terms of information processing. Dennett and Hofstadter are both proponents of the idea that the wonders of human mentality can be accounted for by mechanical brain processes—which leaves nothing theoretical to prevent us from building human-like mental processes into our mechanical devices. A few views that run counter to this notion, such as John Searle's widely known presentation of the Chinese room argument, are included in this book mainly as targets for refutation.\n\nThe book is divided into six sections, each focusing on a particular aspect of the problem of self.\n\nPart I, \"A Sense of Self\", begins with two works of fiction that challenge the notions of self and identity (including the Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges's \"Borges and I\"), provoking the reader to think more closely about just what is meant by \"self\". It closes with an essay by Harold J. Morowitz on the reductionist view of the mind.\n\nPart II, entitled \"Soul Searching\", takes on the idea of soul—that spark which separates thinking beings from unthinking machines. Included here is Alan Turing's famous article from 1950, in which he proposes an operational test—popularly known as the \"Turing test\"—for machine intelligence, judged successful if a machine can use human language well enough to pass as human. No machine has yet come close to passing the Turing test, and certainly not at the time of the book's publication. (It is argued that merely behaving as if you have human-like intelligence in no way shows that you have human-like intelligence: see Turing test for history and criticisms.) As it happens, the two main efforts of artificial intelligence research towards machine learning since \"The Mind's I\" was published (trainable neural nets and expert systems) failed to bring us any closer to true intelligence, so the elusive nature of machine intelligence presented still stands. A dialogue of Hofstadter's own picks up the idea of the Turing test and spins a thought-provoking scenario from it.\n\nTwo chapters excerpted from a novel by Terrel Miedaner end the section. Hofstadter interprets them in accordance with his own atheistic beliefs, without acknowledgment of Miedaner's opposite intent, which used them to support alternative ideas about the nature of mind and soul.\n\nThe formation of mind from elements individually incapable of thought is the central theme of Part III, \"From Hardware to Software\". The evolution of the mind toward its current state is addressed in the first two reprinted works. Following that is a reprint of \"Prelude... Ant Fugue\" from Hofstadter's Pulitzer-winning book, \"Gödel, Escher, Bach,\" in which he builds up the metaphor of the mind as anthill: each individual part with only rudimentary function, coming together to be more than the sum of its parts.\n\nPart IV explores its titular issue, \"Mind as Program\". What is the self: the mind, or the body? Can they be separated? Can the location of the consciousness be separate from one's physical location. In that case, where are you, really? Dennett's fantastical account of being separated from his brain and David Sanford's response tackle these issues. In this section the mind is considered as software: as patterns of thought and action, as separate from the physical body housing it as a piece of software is from the machine it runs on.\n\nPart V, \"Created Selves and Free Will\", includes John Searle's notorious \"Minds, Brains and Programs\" (originally an article published in \"The Behavioral and Brain Sciences\", 1980), which states: \"...mental processes are computational processes over formally defined elements.\" Searle has objections to the idea that computer programs might ever produce mind, but the idea that mentality involves computation can be traced through the history of Western philosophy where it has long been explored in the context of trying to explain human reason in terms of formal logical systems. A dramatic and famous rejection of the formal systems idea was that of Ludwig Wittgenstein, a philosopher whom Dennett respects. After first embracing the idea of reducing everything to logical atoms (\"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\"), Wittgenstein later rejected the idea that human language games should be formulated as formal systems (\"Philosophical Investigations\"). However, many philosophers and artificial intelligence researchers remain captivated by the formal systems approach. For example, Dennett has tried to help the MIT Cog project develop formal computer programming methods towards the goal of producing human-like intelligence. In his book \"Contemporary Philosophy of Mind\", Georges Rey provides an example of continuing attempts to express human intelligence in machines through computational processes over formally defined elements. An alternative but minority approach has grown out of the work of people like Gerald Edelman and his student Olaf Sporns through which it is suggested that machine intelligence can most efficiently be achieved by creating autonomous robotic systems that can learn the way human children learn through interacting with their environment.\n\nThe book closes with \"The Inner Eye\", a collection of short pieces on the subjective nature of experience. How can one describe what it is like to be a particular entity, without actually being it yourself? Thomas Nagel, Raymond Smullyan, Douglas Hofstadter, and Robert Nozick tackle the problem of translating the experiences of one being into terms another can understand. But can we ever know what it is like to be another self? For that matter, what can we know about what it is like to be ourselves? Hofstadter and Dennett's commentary suggest that self-knowledge is elusive, to say nothing of the experience of other minds.\n\n"}
{"id": "6441686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6441686", "title": "The Paranoid Style in American Politics", "text": "The Paranoid Style in American Politics\n\n\"The Paranoid Style in American Politics\" is an essay by American historian Richard J. Hofstadter, first published in \"Harper's Magazine\" in November 1964; it served as the title essay of a book by the author in the same year.\n\nPublished soon after Senator Barry Goldwater had won the Republican presidential nomination over the more moderate Nelson A. Rockefeller, Hofstadter's article explores the influence of conspiracy theory and \"movements of suspicious discontent\" throughout American history.\n\nThe essay was adapted from a Herbert Spencer Lecture that Hofstadter delivered at Oxford University on November 21, 1963. An abridged version was first published in the November 1964 issue of \"Harper's Magazine\", and was published as the titular essay in the book \"The Paranoid Style in American Politics, and Other Essays\" (1964). The essay was originally presented when the conservatives, led by Arizona Senator Barry Goldwater (1909–1998), were on the verge of taking control of the Republican Party.\n\nIn developing the subject, Hofstadter initially establishes that his use of the phrase \"paranoid style\" was a borrowing from the clinical psychiatric term \"paranoid\" to describe a \"political personality\", and acknowledges that the term is pejorative. Psychological projection is essential to the paranoid style of U.S. politics.\n\nHistorians have also applied the paranoid category to other political movements, such as the conservative Constitutional Union Party of 1860. Hofstadter's approach was later applied to the rise of new right-wing groups, including the Christian Right and the Patriot Movement.\n\nThe political scientist Michael Paul Rogin, in his book \"The Intellectuals and McCarthy: The Radical Specter\" (1967), offered a thorough criticism of Hofstadter's thesis regarding the People's, or Populist, party of the 1890's and similar progressive groups, showing that the ethnic and religious groups that supported Joseph McCarthy and other \"paranoid style\" figures differ from those which supported the Populists and their successors, and thus that the origins of McCarthyism cannot be found within agrarian radical groups. Despite Rogin's work, the tendency to conflate left-wing and right-wing populism, ignoring significant differences between the two, continues to be a significant long-term effect of Hofstadter's work.\n\nAnother aspects of Hofstadter's thesis has been challenged by Samuel DeCanio's 2013 article \"Populism, Paranoia, and the Politics of Free Silver,\" which argues that instead of being a paranoid delusion, the Populists' position regarding bankers' use of bribes to influence 19th century monetary policy was largely correct. DeCanio offers evidence that the Coinage Act of 1873, legislation that eliminated bimetallism and which the Populists' denounced as the \"Crime of 73,\" was influenced by bribes that William Ralston, president of The Bank of California, paid to Henry Linderman, director of the Philadelphia Mint. DeCanio's article includes a copy of the actual check Ralston used to pay Linderman, indicating the Populists' claims were far more accurate than Hofstadter ever suspected.\n\nIn a 2007 article in \"Harper's\", Scott Horton wrote that \"The Paranoid Style in American Politics\" was \"one of the most important and most influential articles published in the 155 year history of the magazine.\"\n\nLaura Miller writes in Salon.com that \"'The Paranoid Style in American Politics' reads like a playbook for the career of Glenn Beck, right down to the paranoid's 'quality of pedantry' and 'heroic strivings for 'evidence'...\"\n\nEconomist Paul Krugman titled his 2018 op-ed in \"The New York Times\" \"The Paranoid Style in G.O.P. Politics\" and explicitly referenced the 1964 essay.\n\nThe garage rock band The Paranoid Style, formed in 2012, is named after the article.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33444929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33444929", "title": "Timothy Binkley", "text": "Timothy Binkley\n\nTimothy Binkley (born Timothy Glenn Binkley on September 14, 1943 in Baltimore, MD), is an American philosopher, artist, and teacher, known for his radical writings about conceptual art and aesthetics, as well as several essays that help define computer art. He is also known for his interactive art installations.\n\nTimothy Binkley studied mathematics at University of Colorado at Boulder, earning a B.A. (1965) and an M.A. (1966). His PhD in philosophy, from University of Texas at Austin (1970), explored Ludwig Wittgenstein's use of language.\n\nBinkley has lectured and taught at several colleges and universities in the United States, most notably at School of Visual Arts where he initiated the MFA Computer Art program, the first of its kind in the country. In 1992, he founded the New York Digital Salon, an international exhibition of computer art.\n\nHe has exhibited his interactive art in the United States, Europe, South America, and Asia.\n\nBinkley postulates that twentieth-century art is a strongly self-critical discipline, which creates ideas free of traditional piece-specifying conventions including aesthetic parameters and qualities. The artwork is a piece, and a piece isn't necessarily an aesthetic object—or an object at all. Binkley states that anything that can be thought about or referred to can be labeled an artwork by an artist.\n\nBinkley argues that the computer is neither a medium nor a tool, since both media and tools have inherent characteristics that can be explored through an artist's gestures or physical events for mark-making. Instead, the computer is a chameleon-like or even promiscuous assistant, whose services can be applied to any number of tasks and whose capabilities can be defined endlessly from application to application. Binkley refers to the computer as a non-specific technology and an incorporeal metamedium. Yet the computer contains phenomena not found in other media: namely, a conceptual space where symbolic content can be modified using mathematical abstractions. The notion of an “original” and its consequent value are considered irrelevant, obsolete, or inapplicable to computer art.\n\nBinkley's philosophy extends beyond art and aesthetics to culture itself, whose foundations he believes we are overhauling through our involvement with computers.\n\n\n\n\nBinkley is married to artist and author Sonya Shannon and has a daughter Shelley Binkley, M.D., from a previous marriage to Sue Binkley Tatem.\n"}
{"id": "488382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488382", "title": "Trilemma", "text": "Trilemma\n\nA trilemma is a difficult choice from three options, each of which is (or appears) unacceptable or unfavourable. There are two logically equivalent ways in which to express a trilemma: it can be expressed as a choice among three unfavourable options, one of which must be chosen, or as a choice among three favourable options, only two of which are possible at the same time.\n\nThe term derives from the much older term \"dilemma\", a choice between two or more difficult or unfavourable alternatives. The earliest recorded use of the term was by the British preacher Philip Henry in 1672, and later, apparently independently, by the preacher Isaac Watts in 1725.\n\nOne of the earliest uses of the trilemma formulation is that of the Greek philosopher Epicurus, rejecting the idea of an omnipotent and omnibenevolent God (as summarised by David Hume):\n\n\nAlthough traditionally ascribed to Epicurus and called Epicurus' trilemma, it has been suggested that it may actually be the work of an early skeptic writer, possibly Carneades.\n\nIn studies of philosophy, discussions, and debates related to this trilemma are often referred to as being about the \"problem of evil\".\n\nOne well-known trilemma is sometimes used by Christian apologists considered a proof of the divinity of Jesus, and is most commonly known in the version by C. S. Lewis. It proceeds from the premise that Jesus claimed to be God, and that therefore one of the following must be true:\n\n\nThe trilemma, usually in Lewis' formulation, is often used in works of popular apologetics, although it is almost totally absent from discussions about the status of Jesus by professional theologians and biblical scholars. \n\nThe \"cruel trilemma\" was an English ecclesiastical and judicial weapon developed in the first half of the 17th century, and used as a form of coercion and persecution. The format was a religious oath to tell the truth, imposed upon the accused prior to questioning. The accused, if guilty, would find themselves trapped between:\n\nOutcry over this process led to the foundation of the right to not incriminate oneself being established in common law and was the direct precursor of the right to silence and non-self-incrimination in the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nIn the theory of knowledge the Münchhausen trilemma is an argument against the possibility of proving any \"certain\" truth even in the fields of logic and mathematics. Its name is going back to a logical proof of the German philosopher Hans Albert.\nThis proof runs as follows: All of the only three possible attempts to get a certain justification must fail:\n\nIn John Stuart Mill's \"On Liberty\", as a part of his argument against the suppression of free speech, he describes the trilemma facing those attempting to justify such suppression (although he does not refer to it as a trilemma, Leo Parker-Rees (2009) identified it as such).\nIf free speech is suppressed, the opinion suppressed is either:\n\nIn 1952, the British magazine \"The Economist\" published a series of articles on an \"Uneasy Triangle\", which described \"the three-cornered incompatibility between a stable price level, full employment, and ... free collective bargaining\". The context was the difficulty maintaining external balance without sacrificing two sacrosanct political values, jobs for all and unrestricted labor rights. Inflation resulting from labor militancy in the context of full employment put powerful downward pressure on the pound sterling. Runs on the pound triggered a long series of economically and politically disruptive \"stop-go\" policies (deflation followed by reflation). John Maynard Keynes had anticipated the severe problem associated with reconciling full employment with stable prices without sacrificing democracy and the associational rights of labor. The same incompatibilities were also elaborated on in Charles E. Lindblom's 1949 book, \"Unions and Capitalism\".\n\nIn 1962 and 1963, a trilemma (or \"impossible trinity\") was introduced by the economists Robert Mundell and Marcus Fleming in articles discussing the problems with creating a stable international financial system. It refers to the trade-offs among the following three goals: a fixed exchange rate, national independence in monetary policy, and capital mobility. According to the Mundell–Fleming model of 1962 and 1963, a small, open economy cannot achieve all three of these policy goals at the same time: in pursuing any two of these goals, a nation must forgo the third.\n\nIn 1989 Peter Swenson posited the existence of \"wage policy trilemmas\" encountered by trade unions trying to achieve three egalitarian goals simultaneously. One involved attempts to compress wages within a bargaining sector while compressing wages between sectors and maximizing access to employment in the sector. A variant of this \"horizontal\" trilemma was the \"vertical\" wage policy trilemma associated with trying simultaneously to compress wages, increase the wage share of value added at the expense of profits, and maximize employment. These trilemmas helped explain instability in unions' wage policies and their political strategies seemingly designed to resolve the incompatibilities.\n\nSteven Pinker proposed another social trilemma in his books \"How the Mind Works\" and \"The Blank Slate:\" that a society cannot be simultaneously \"fair\", \"free\", and \"equal\". If it is \"fair\", individuals who work harder will accumulate more wealth; if it is \"free\", parents will leave the bulk of their inheritance to their children; but then it will not be \"equal\", as people will begin life with different fortunes.\n\nThe economist Dani Rodrik argues in his book, \"The Globalization Paradox\", that democracy, national sovereignty, and global economic integration are mutually incompatible.\n\nZionists have often desired that Israel be democratic, have a Jewish identity, and encompass (at least) the land of Mandatory Palestine. However, these desiderata seemingly form an inconsistent triad, and thus a trilemma. Palestine has an Arab majority, so any democratic state encompassing all of Palestine would likely have a binational or Arab identity.\n\nHowever, Israel could be:\n\n\nThis observation appears in \"From Beirut to Jerusalem\" (1989), by Thomas Friedman, who attributes it to the political scientist .\n\nArthur C. Clarke cited a management trilemma encountered when trying to achieve production quickly and cheaply while maintaining high quality. In the software industry, this means that one can pick any two of: fastest time to market, highest software quality (fewest defects), and lowest cost (headcount). This is the basis of the popular project management aphorism \"Quick, Cheap, Good: Pick two,\" conceptualized as the project management triangle.\n\nThe \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" is said to have overcome the trilemma that an encyclopedia cannot be authoritative, comprehensive and up-to-date all at the same time for any significant duration.\n\nThe RAID technology may offer two of the three desirable value: (relative) inexpensiveness, speed or reliability (RAID 0 is fast and cheap, but unreliable; RAID 6 is extremely expensive and reliable, with correct performance and so on). The phrase \"fast, cheap, good: choose two\".\n\nIt had been pastiched in silent computing as \"fast, cheap, quiet: choose two\".\n\nFurther trilemma in computing include the CAP theorem about guarantees provided by distributed systems, and Zooko's triangle for naming participants in network protocols.\n\nAnonymous communication protocols can offer two of the three desirable properties: strong anonymity, low bandwidth overhead, low latency overhead.\n\nSome anonymous communication protocols offer anonymity at the cost of high bandwidth overhead, that means the number of messages exchanged between the protocol parties is really high. Some offer anonymity with the expense of latency overhead (there is a high delay between when the message is sent by the sender and when it is received by the receiver). There are protocols which aims to keep the bandwidth overhead and latency overhead low, but they can only provide a weak form of anonymity.\n\nThe trilemma claims that blockchain systems can only at most have two of the following three properties:\n\nDecentralization (defined as the system being able to run in a scenario where each participant only has access to O(c) resources, ie. a regular laptop or small VPS)\n\nScalability (defined as being able to process O(n) > O(c) transactions)\n\nSecurity (defined as being secure against attackers with up to O(n) resources)\n\nWhere c refers to the size of computational resources (including computation, bandwidth and storage) available to each node, and n to refer to the size of the ecosystem in some abstract sense.\n\nThe \"Trilemma of the Earth\" (or \"3E Trilemma\") is a term used by scientists working on energy and environment protection. 3E Trilemma stands for Economy-Energy-Environment interaction. \n\nFor the activation of economic development (E: Economy) to occur, we need to increase the energy expenditure (E: Energy) however this raises the environmental issue (E: Environment) of more emissions of pollutant gases.\n\nThe \"Žižek trilemma\" is a humorous formulation on the incompatibility of certain personal virtues under a constraining ideological framework. Often attributed to the philosopher Slavoj Žižek, it is actually quoted by him as the product of an anonymous source:\n\nOne cannot but recall here a witty formula of life under a hard Communist regime: Of the three features—personal honesty, sincere support of the regime and intelligence—it was possible to combine only two, never all three. If one were honest and supportive, one was not very bright; if one were bright and supportive, one was not honest; if one were honest and bright, one was not supportive.\n\n"}
{"id": "34023452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34023452", "title": "Yongjia Xuanjue", "text": "Yongjia Xuanjue\n\nYongjia Xuanjue (; ), also known as Yongjia Zhenjue (), was a Zen and Tiantai Buddhist monk who lived during the Tang dynasty. The name Yongjia is derived from the city of his birth, which is now called Wenzhou. He is also known by his nickname \"The Overnight Guest\" because of his first encounter with his teacher, Huineng. On a visit to Caoxi (漕溪), where Huineng's Nanhua Temple is located, Yongjia was convinced to stay just one night, during which his enlightenment was acknowledged. He supposedly died while meditating in 713. He is best remembered today as the author of the \"Song of Enlightenment\", often known by its Japanese name Shodoka (證道歌). This work remains popular in contemporary Zen practice.\n\nYongjia Xuanjue was born in 665 in present-day Wenzhou in Zhejiang Province, China. The city went by the name of Yongjia at the time, and he came to be named for his birthplace later in life. He began studying Buddhism at an early age as a monk in the Tiantai school and was given the dharma name Mingdao (明道), meaning \"bright path\". He was friends with Xuanlang (玄朗), who would go on to become the fifth patriarch of Tiantai. He settled at Lung-hsing temple in Wenzhou, where he remained teaching until his death in 713. He was prominent enough that after his death, the Emperor Xuanzong gave him the posthumous name Wuxiang (無象), meaning 'without phenomena'. His two works that survive today are the \"Song of Enlightenment\" and the \"Yongjia Collection\".\n\nThe story of Yongjia's brief first encounter with Huineng is recorded in the Transmission of the Lamp. The tale tells of one of Huineng's students encountering Yongjia, and through conversation finding that his opinions were very similar to those of the great Zen teachers of the time. When asked who his teacher was, Yongjia replies that he had none, but rather he had attained his understanding from sutras, especially the Vimalakirti Sutra. Huineng's student then explains that one's understanding should be confirmed, to which Yongjia requests that he testify to his enlightenment. The student states that his own personal opinion is meaningless, and he should instead visit Huineng in Caoxi.\n\nArriving at the temple, Yongjia walks around Huineng three times and then stands staring at him. Huineng comments on his lack of formality, to which Yongjia responds, \"Since the question of incessant rebirth is a momentous one and death may come at any moment, I have no time to waste on ceremony, and wish you to give me a quick answer to this problem\". Huineng suggests he \"embody birthlessness\" in order to overcome impermanence. Yongjia immediately displays understanding of this, but then readies himself to leave. Huineng asks if he is not leaving too quickly. Yongjia then says there is no such thing as 'quickly', for motion does not truly exist. Huineng asks why this should be the case, to which he responds that any distinction about quickness or slowness is an artificial construct. Huineng then exclaims that his interlocutor now truly understands the concept of birthlessness, but Yongjia cleverly asks if a mere concept, another form of artificial distinction, can really have a meaning. Huineng asks, \"Who makes a distinction about whether there is a meaning or not. Yongjia responds, \"Distinctions are meaningless!\", and Huineng cries, \"Excellent! Excellent! Now, just stay here a single night!\" This is so that Huineng can officially confirm his enlightenment. And thus, Yongjia is known as \"The Overnight Guest\" because he proved his enlightenment to Huineng in one night.\n\nDespite this story, in the oldest version of the \"Platform Sutra\" found among the Dunhuang manuscripts, which dates to about 850 CE, Yongjia is not mentioned as a student of Huineng.\n"}
