{"id": "1300599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1300599", "title": "12-O-Tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate", "text": "12-O-Tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate\n\n12-\"O\"-Tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), also commonly known as tetradecanoylphorbol acetate, tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate, and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), is a diester of phorbol and a potent tumor promoter often employed in biomedical research to activate the signal transduction enzyme protein kinase C (PKC). The effects of TPA on PKC result from its similarity to one of the natural activators of classic PKC isoforms, diacylglycerol. TPA is a small molecule drug.\n\nIn ROS biology, superoxide was identified as the major reactive oxygen species induced by TPA/PMA but not by ionomycin in mouse macrophages. Thus, TPA/PMA has been routinely used as an inducer for endogenous superoxide production.\n\nTPA is also being studied as a drug in the treatment of hematologic cancer \n\nTPA has a specific use in cancer diagnostics as a B-cell specific mitogen in cytogenetic testing. To view the chromosomes, a cytogenetic test requires dividing cells. TPA is used to stimulate division of B-cells during cytogenetic diagnosis of B-cell cancers such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia.\n\nTPA is also commonly used together with ionomycin to stimulate T-cell activation, proliferation, and cytokine production, and is used in protocols for intracellular staining of these cytokines.\n\nTPA induces KSHV reactivation in PEL cell cultures via stimulation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway. The pathway involves the activation of the early-immediate viral protein RTA that contributes to the activation of the lytic cycle.\n\nTPA was first found in the croton plant, a shrub found in Southeast Asia, exposure to which provokes a poison ivy-like rash. It underwent a phase 1 clinical trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "39853192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39853192", "title": "Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus", "text": "Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus\n\nThe Congressional Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus is bi-partisan caucus of the United States House of Representatives established in 2004 by Rep. Jim Ramstad. The Caucus is currently co-chaired by Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Rep. John Fleming (R-LA).\n\nAccording to the Caucus' webpage, its mission is:\n\nCaucus' of the United States Congress\n\n"}
{"id": "24655967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24655967", "title": "Alexander Nisbet (Royal Navy officer)", "text": "Alexander Nisbet (Royal Navy officer)\n\nSir Alexander Nisbet (1795–1874) was a naval surgeon notable for his role in early convict transports to Australia, and as H.M. Inspector of Hospitals for the Royal Navy.\n\nAlexander Nisbet was born in Scotland, son of Captain Alexander Nisbet, and joined the British Royal Navy Medical Service in 1812. He saw active service during the American War (1812-1814). In 1823 he completed a doctorate in medicine at Edinburgh University, submitting a dissertation entitled \"Pneumonia Typhode\"; and, began a long and successful career as a surgeon-superintendent serving on seven convict ships transporting convicts from Great Britain to Australia (1824-1840).\n\nIn 1844 Alexander became Deputy Director of Hospitals at Greenwich. On 12 December 1854, at Arley, Staffordshire, he married Lucy Susannah Davenport, daughter of the Rev. E.S. Davenport. In 1855 Nisbet was appointed Inspector of Hospitals and Fleets at Haslar Royal Hospital, retiring from the Royal Navy in 1861. He was appointed as Honorary Physician to Queen Victoria in 1873 and later that year he was knighted by Prime Minister William Ewart Gladstone.\n\nHe died of \"natural decay\" at his home Arley Lodge in Lee, London at the age of seventy-nine, and is buried in Brockley and Ladywell Cemeteries.\n\n"}
{"id": "56658171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56658171", "title": "Aye Zan", "text": "Aye Zan\n\nAye Zan (; born 4 April 1954) is a Burmese politician. He is currently serving as chief minister for Mon State since 1 March 2017.\n\nAye Zan is an ethnic Mon and he was born on 4 April 1954 in Mudon, Mon State. He graduated from University of Medicine 2, Yangon with medical degree in 1979.\n\nAye Zan is a member of National League for Democracy's central executive committee. He is also chairman of Kyaikto Township' National League for Democracy party (NLD). He led Kyaikto Township's NLD party since 1988.\n\nHe won a seat in the 1990 election, but was never allowed to assume his seat. In Myanmar general election, 2015, he was elected as an Mon State Hluttaw MP for Kyaikto Township No.2 constituency.\n\nAfter former chief minister Min Min Oo resigned from his post, Aye Zan was appointed as a chief minister of Mon State by president Htin Kyaw on 1 March 2017.\n"}
{"id": "49110893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49110893", "title": "BIA 10-2474", "text": "BIA 10-2474\n\nBIA 10-2474 is an experimental fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitor developed by the Portuguese pharmaceutical company Bial-Portela & Ca. SA. It interacts with the human endocannabinoid system. The drug was in development for the treatment of a range of different medical conditions from anxiety disorder to Parkinson's disease, also for the treatment of chronic pain of multiple sclerosis, cancer, hypertension or the treatment of obesity. A clinical trial with this drug was underway in Rennes, France, in January 2016, in which serious adverse events occurred affecting five participants, including the death of one man. The underlying mechanism that caused the acute neurotoxicity of this molecule remains unknown.\n\nThe chemical name of BIA-10-2474 is 3-(1-(cyclohexyl(methyl)carbamoyl)-1H-imidazol-4-yl)pyridine 1-oxide. BIA-10-2474 is a long-acting inhibitor of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) that increases levels of the neurotransmitter anandamide in the central nervous system and in peripheral tissues (that is, the rest of the body other than the brain and spinal cord).\n\nIn normal tissues, the enzyme FAAH degrades anandamide and other endocannabinoid neurotransmitters, which relieve pain and can affect eating and sleep patterns. FAAH inhibitors have been proposed for a range of nervous system disorders including anxiety disorders, alcoholism, pain and nausea.\n\nThe Portuguese pharmaceutical company Bial holds several patents on FAAH enzyme inhibitors.\n\nThe structure and synthesis of BIA 10-2474 is disclosed in a Bial patent as 'compound 362', part of a Bial patent family dating from December 2008.\n\nThe patent discloses limited details about BIA 10-2474, mainly the screening assay results for each of the several hundred candidate compounds to evaluate the effect on FAAH activity. For compound 362 (that is, BIA 10-2474), an \"in vitro\" assay in rat brain showed only modest FAAH inhibition, however, mice given compound 362 at 3 mg/kg orally had less than 2% the normal level of FAAH activity in both brain and liver tissues after 8 hours. Inhibition of other enzymes affected by cannabinoids (monoacylglycerol lipase and liver carboxylesterase) was performed as a screen for biological selectivity for a small number of compounds, but compound 362 was not included. These results appear to be high-throughput screening data only, and no more definitive data are included (such as inhibitory concentration (IC50) or inhibition constant (Ki) values that characterise the potency of the molecule's inhibition of, or binding with, the target).\n\nThe Agence Nationale de Sécurité du Médicament et des Produits de Santé (ANSM) reported that the compound has a rat IC50 of 1.1-1.7 micromolar, and that this is 200 times the concentration required for inhibition with a different FAAH inhibitor developed by Pfizer (that is, much weaker). As such, the ANSM described the molecule as \"a compound with a relatively poor specificity for the endocannabinoid FAAH\". In the same report, the ANSM also noted that the inhibitor is irreversible, not reversible as claimed by the manufacturer Bial.\n\nPublication of the chemical structure created considerable interest among chemists, with some sharing online their assessment of likely binding interactions between BIA 10-2474 and \"in vivo\" targets. At least one analysis using standard software modelling packages found that although FAAH emerged as the primary target for BIA 10-2474, a number of other proteins rated highly as well. These other targets included histone deacetylases, macrophage-stimulating protein receptor and hormone-sensitive lipase.\n\nAlthough the exact mechanism of action leading to BIA 10-2474 toxicity remains unknown, the final report by the ANSM Committee concluded it was likely one of two possible mechanisms \"inhibition of other serine hydrolases, or harmful effect from the imidazole‐pyridine \"leaving\" group\". The report also theorised that this leaving group \"may produce an isocyanate to which many brain proteins are likely to bind\". A 2017 research article suggested the off-target activity of BIA 10-2474 may affect lipid metabolism in neurones.\n\nAccording to a company statement, a project to develop FAAH inhibitors was initiated by Bial in 2005, and studies with this compound began in 2009 with pre-clinical \"in vitro\" and \"in vivo\" pharmacological and toxicological evaluation. The French medicines regulator (ANSM) released a version of the clinical trial protocol, after the newspaper \"Le Figaro\" leaked a (more recent) version. The protocol presents a summary of what appears to be a full package of pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological studies that might be expected to support a first-in-man study. The manufacturer Bial refused the regulator's request to release the Investigator's brochure and the product dossier (the Investigational Medicinal Product Dossier; IMPD), citing French law on trade secrets.\n\nAn expert committee, established by the French medicines regulator after the trial, requested clarification from Bial of a range of preclinical issues.\n\nIn terms of animal pharmacodynamics, the trial protocol reports that the biological activity of BIA 10-2474 was tested in models of predictive efficacy in treating pain. “BIA 10-2474 produced analgesic/anti-inflammatory activity in the mouse Formalin-Paw and Tail-Flick tests in a time-and dose-dependent manner. BIA 10-2474 also markedly potentiated the antinociceptive effects of exogenous anandamide in the mouse Formalin-Paw and Tail-Flick tests”. In other words, BIA 10-2474 worked as a pain-killer in mice using two different tests (the “analgesic/anti-inflammatory” effect); and, in mice that had been given a dose of the neurotransmitter anandamide, BIA 10-2474 also improved its effects in numbing pain (“antinociceptive” effect). The expert committee of the ANSM took the view that this was insufficient basis for commencing human trials, and that further evidence of BIA 10-2474 as an analgesic was warranted. The Committee's final report noted that in fact the original formalin paw study report presented additional data for the gabapentin comparator which was omitted in the Investigators Brochure. The final ANSM report stated that \"doses used in these tests differ greatly (from 0.3 to 10 mg/Kg), without it being possible to trace a dose‐effect curve or to estimate an effective dose 50 (which is a surprising shortcoming)\".\n\nIn terms of animal pharmacokinetics, in rats and dogs given a radio-labelled dose of BIA 10-2474, the drug was detectable in the blood for up to a day afterwards (oral or i.v.). Oral bioavailability was not reported. Terminal half-life (persistence in the blood) of the BIA 10-2474 in rats was 45 hours (oral) or 4 hours (i.v.) and in dogs it was 104 hours (oral) or 52 hours (i.v.). The authors made no prediction of a likely half-life in humans. Around two-thirds of the total dose was eliminated in the urine, about one-fifth in the faeces and the remainder was heavily metabolized in all species studied (rat, mouse, dog, monkey). Metabolism of BIA 10-2474 was essentially complete by 72 hours. Main metabolites were not described. The studies used total detectable radioactivity to calculate half-life and did not assess what proportion of this was due to metabolites.\n\nThe preliminary report by the French Inspector General for Social Affairs (IGAS), for the French Ministry of Health, remarked on the difference between the rat oral vs. I.V. half life, and, that in light of the adverse events seen in humans on repeated dosing, this may indicate \"a mechanism of accumulation\". Separately, accumulation of BIA 10-2474 given orally in humans was supported by pharmacokinetic data from the trial itself, reviewed by the ANSM expert committee. The molecule showed non-linear pharmacokinetics at doses between 40–100 mg, suggesting elimination pathways had become saturated, leading to accumulation.\n\nThe final report by the ANSM Committee noted the drug had a very steep dose-effect curve in humans \"going from absence of to almost complete inhibition\" over a narrow concentration range. The report also found, based on clinical data from the Rennes trial, that complete inhibition by BIA 10-2474 was very long-acting, and persisted well beyond the point where it was no longer detectable in blood of the trial subjects.\n\nThe protocol presents a summary of safety pharmacology studies in two species (rat, dog) and repeated dose toxicity studies in four species (13-week sub-chronic studies in mouse, dog and monkey; a 26-week chronic study in the rat). Of note, few adverse events were observed in any of the studies, with the oral No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) varying between 10 mg/kg/day in rats to 75 mg/kg/day in monkeys. The authors suggest that these were the maximum doses tested in these studies, though it is not clear. The authors also report no effects of significance in the animal models used for the CNS safety pharmacology studies, which studied a dose of up to 300 mg/kg/day. The protocol nominates a human NOAEL of 100 mg as a human equivalent dose to the 26-week rat NOAEL, though with no description how this was calculated. The summary presented however includes no assessment of the relevance of the animal species selected for study (that is, in terms of physiological and genetic similarities with humans and the mechanism of action of the study drug). Early reports that the molecule had been studied in chimpanzees turned out to be incorrect.\n\nAt a hearing convened by the ANSM in March 2016, Bial clarified that the apparently extensive animal toxicology studies (and number of species) was due to a delay in commencement of clinical development, thus some studies had already been completed that would not have been required for a Phase I study. The ANSM Committee found no evidence that the studies had been performed because the company had doubts as to the tolerance of the molecule.\n\nNotably absent from the protocol were calculations of receptor occupancy; predictions of \"in vivo\" ligand binding saturation levels; measures of target affinity or assessment of non-target binding interactions as suggested by the European guidance for Phase I studies (depending on whether BIA 10-2474 could be considered to require 'special consideration' as outlined in the guideline). On these issues, the French regulator's expert committee pointed out, based on the company's IC50 data, that complete FAAH inhibition should have been achieved with a dose of 1.25 mg in humans. In fact, the trial tested doses up to 80 times more (100 mg BIA 10-2474) than should have been required. The ANSM committee also requested data on non-target enzyme affinity from the manufacturer Bial.\n\nAlthough the protocol summary reports no animal deaths during the studies, the ANSM expert committee reported that in fact several monkeys died or had to be euthanised during the dose escalation studies and that an explanation from Bial was pending. Also, two animals had to be euthanised in the 13-week dog study due to lung lesions - both from the top dose group. None of these animal deaths were described in the trial protocol.\n\nIt is not clear whether Bial disclosed these adverse animal findings either to Biotrial or to the ANSM in their application for clinical trial authorisation.\n\nThe findings presented in the trial protocol provide no explanation for the type and severity of events that would be later observed in Rennes. The preliminary report from the IGAS investigation, released by the French Minister for Health in February 2016, found there was no legal requirement in France for the trial sponsor to disclose all pre-clinical data to the ANSM. The Minister described this as an opportunity for improvement. Nevertheless, the IGAS report commented that the investigation thus far had not found any reason to fault the ANSM's authorisation of the trial based on the preclinical data.\n\nThe final report by the ANSM Committee concluded regarding the preclinical studies that \"no aspects of the data that the TSSC has studied constituted a signal likely to contraindicate administration in humans.\" The report went on however to criticise Bial's Investigator's Brochure: \"the brochure contains many mistakes, inaccuracies, figure inversions or incorrect translation of source documents, making understanding difficult in several aspects. This is highly surprising given the regulatory importance of this document.\"\n\nIn 2015 Biotrial, a contract research organization, initiated a first-in-human trial of BIA 10-2474 in healthy volunteers, with secondary endpoints to investigate neuropathic pain. The study was approved by the French regulatory authority, the ANSM, on 26 June 2015, and by the Brest regional ethics committee on 3 July 2015. The trial protocol was leaked by \"Le Figaro\" before a different version was released by ANSM. The manufacturer Bial refused the regulator's request to release the Investigator's brochure and the product dossier (Investigational Medicinal Product Dossier), citing French law on trade secrets.\n\nThe study was entitled \"A double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, combined single and multiple ascending dose study including food interaction, to investigate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile of BIA 10-2474, in healthy volunteers\". The trial commenced on 9 July 2015 at a single centre in the city of Rennes, and commenced recruitment of 128 healthy volunteers, both men and women aged 18 to 55. Participants of the study were to receive €1,900 and, in turn, asked to stay at Biotrial's facility for two weeks during which time they would take the drug for ten days and undergo tests. The study drug was presented as capsules in three different strengths (0.25, 2.5 and 10 mg). The protocol describes four distinct parts to the study:\nThe protocol specifies the first three parts would be double-blind but the pharmacodynamics part would be open label. According to the protocol, dose levels and numbers of groups could be increased, or were not yet defined, and would depend on what was observed with initial dosing, (an approach known as adaptive trial design). Thus many details of the key multi-dose part are not included in the trial protocol. The absence of these details was criticised by scientists and in the media, before the ANSM published further details of the dosing. The Royal Statistical Society was particularly critical, stating that it had \"clear statistical reservations about the trial's study design\", and that the protocol lacked features such as a risk assessment, recommended in the wake of the TGN1412 incident to prevent severe adverse events occurring in these circumstances.\n\nFor the single dose part of the study, the protocol describes eight groups of eight volunteers (3:1 randomised) who were to receive single doses of BIA 10-2474 at 0.25, 1.25, 2.5, 5.0, 10, 20, 40 and 100 mg, with the possibility of additional groups to be added if no maximum tolerated dose was reached. In describing the rationale for the starting dose, the authors of the protocol conclude that:\n\nThe protocol provides for the first two subjects of the first single dose cohort to receive the first dose as a sentinel dose, that is, either 0.25 mg BIA 10-2474 or a placebo on the first day, then wait for 24h before treating the other 5:1 subjects. In the event no safety concerns had emerged in the foregoing, all other single- and multi-dose groups were to be dosed with a 10-minute interval between recipients.\n\nFor the multiple ascending dose part of the study, the protocol planned four groups of eight volunteers (3:1 randomised) who were to receive a single dose orally, once daily for 10 days at different dose levels. However, the protocol defines no doses for these groups, stating that this will be based on the outcome of the single dose portion of the trial. Further dose groups up to a maximum of eight groups could be added depending on whether adverse events were observed. The authors note that nonetheless, the starting dose will not exceed 33% of the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) identified in the single dose groups (or 33% of the maximum administered dose if the MTD is not reached).\n\nFurther details of the study as it was actually conducted have been published by the French agency (ANSM). The dose groups for the single dose part were as described in the protocol, with no additional groups undertaken. In the crossover part, a single 40 mg dose was given to a group of 12 subjects. In the multiple dose ascending part, the doses were 2.5, 5.0, 10, 20 and 50 mg BIA 10-2474, each to be given once per day for 10 days to groups of 8 volunteers (3:1 randomised). The severe adverse events were observed in the 50 mg dose group.\n\nThe ANSM expert committee reported that complete FAAH inhibition should have been achieved by a dose of 1.25 mg remarking that:\nFurther, the ANSM committee remarked that the gap between the 20 mg and 50 mg dose cohorts, in effect, skipped a dose based on extrapolation from the single dose part of the study, and that the progression to 50 mg was too large a jump. On reviewing the subject data from the trial itself, the committee noted that BIA 10-2474 showed non-linear pharmacokinetics at doses between 40–100 mg (that is, the molecule appeared to be accumulating at higher doses) and that most likely the elimination mechanism had become saturated. Thus dosing at 50 mg daily was - each day - 40 times more than required to achieve complete inhibition, and in practice this dose level resulted in accumulation.\n\nAccording to Bial and the Rennes University Hospital, by the time the serious adverse reactions emerged, 116 subjects had been recruited and 84 other volunteers had received the drug during the trial, with no serious adverse events being reported. The single dose part (up to 100 mg BIA 10-2474), the fed vs. fasting part, and the first four dose groups of the multi-dose part of the study had each been completed in 2015. Notably, the administration of 20 mg BIA 10-2474 once daily for 10 consecutive days elicited no serious adverse events in the six volunteers who received it.\n\nDosing of eight volunteers in the highest multi-dose dose group in the BIA 10-2474 trial commenced on 6 January 2016. Six of the participants received 50 mg per day of the drug while two received placebo. The first subject became ill on the evening of the 5th day of dosing (10 January). On the following day, the other subjects received a 6th dose at 8:00am before the trial was suspended later that day (11 January).\n\nThe fifth dose level (50 mg per day for 10 days) of the multi-dose part of study had been underway for five days when the first volunteer became ill and was hospitalized at the Rennes University Hospital on the evening of 10 January 2016 with symptoms similar to a stroke. The following day, the man lapsed into a coma and was shortly thereafter declared brain dead. According to the hospital, the man died at midday on 17 January 2016. Four of the other five men in the same dosage group were also hospitalized between 10–13 January suffering injuries similar to the man who died, including deep haemorrhagic and necrotic lesions seen on brain MRI. All the MRI findings, though widely varying in severity, were of the same form and seen in the hippocampus and pons of the affected individuals. Biotrial stopped the study on 11 January and both the ANSM and regional ethics committee were notified on 14 January.\n\nThe men who were hospitalised were all from the group which received the highest dose of the multiple ascending part of the trial. A neurologist at the University of Rennes Hospital Center, Professor Pierre-Gilles Edan, stated in a press conference with the French Minister for Health, that 3 of the 4 men who were displaying neurological symptoms \"already have a severe enough clinical picture to fear that even in the best situation there will be an irreversible handicap\" and were being given corticosteroids to control the inflammation. The sixth man from the group was not showing adverse effects but was hospitalized on 15 January 2016 for observation. Other study volunteers who had received doses with no ill effects were asked to return for further testing.\n\nThe man who died was later named by local news media as Guillaume Molinet, 49, an artist and father of four from Guilliers, a town in the Breton department of Morbihan. According to the man's brother Laurent Molinet, Mr Molinet was recruited as a stand-by and went to Rennes not expecting to be dosed, only being given BIA 10-2474 because another volunteer dropped out. Molinet's family said they were originally told he had suffered a stroke that was unrelated to the clinical trial, though this quickly turned out not to be the case. Molinet's family objected that key information was hidden by Bial/Biotrial and is reported to have launched a manslaughter lawsuit.\n\nThe events in Rennes were made public on 15 January 2016 and were reported widely in the media in France,\nThe journal Nature quoted Bial spokeswoman Susana Vasconcelos as saying \"the trial had been conducted in accordance with all the good international practices guidelines, with the completion of tests and preclinical trials and that the company is committed to determine thoroughly and exhaustively the causes which are at the origin of this situation”. Bial also denounced the unauthorised release of the trial protocol and was critical of the wide-ranging speculation by scientists and the media about the possible cause of the incident. In July 2016, Bial's Executive Director António Portela confirmed his company's decision to permanently abandon development of the molecule.\n\nThe journal also sought comment from Jean-Marc Gandon, the president and chief executive of the CRO Biotrial, who said \"he cannot immediately respond to queries from Nature, that he is focused on trying to save the patients and that the company will respond later\". Biotrial stated its position that \"The trial was conducted in full compliance with the international regulations and Biotrial’s procedures, in particular the emergency procedures\".\n\nAs of March 2016 it remained unclear whether Bial disclosed the adverse animal findings to Biotrial, including the deaths of monkeys and dogs in several studies. François Peaucelle, the director general of Biotrial, is reported to have told Le Figaro. “We received a 15-page summary of the tests that was based on data that would have filled a lorry. From that data, there was nothing worrying in view of the dosage we were administering to humans.”\n\nThe Agence Nationale de Sécurité du Médicament (ANSM) announced an investigation, and that an inspection of the trial site was already underway. and formation of a specialist committee of pharmacologists, toxicologists and neurologists to review all existing data on FAAH inhibitor drugs. The French health minister Marisol Touraine who visited the trial site in Rennes and spoke with the victims' families, called the events “an accident of exceptional gravity, promised to investigate the matter via the (IGAS) with a final report due end of March. A judicial investigation was also initiated after the for Paris announced it would look into potential charges of involuntary injury through its public health enforcement section, seeking assistance from the Gendarmerie in Rennes and the Ministry of Justice's Office for the Environment and Public Health.\n\nThe ONIAM (Office National d’Indemnisation des Accidents Médicaux), responsible for medical injury compensation, stated only 10 accidents had occurred during clinical trials over the past 15 years per its records, and that those cases had “consequences infinitely less serious” than the incident in Rennes.\n\nInitial reports from the authorities suggested that the causes of the brain injuries was likely to be due to the mechanism of BIA 10-2474 and the doses employed in the trial. ANSM Director General Dominique Martin said \"It is clearly the molecule that is the cause”, following the publication of the ANSM expert committee's initial findings on 7 March 2016.\n\nIn May 2016, the French Health Minister announced several new measures for clinical trials in France, including the establishment of an expert group within the ANSM for review of first in human and early phase studies.\n\nThe Inspection générale des affaires sociales (IGAS) released a preliminary report on 5 February 2016. The French Minister of Health indicated that the cause of the death of one of the subjects had not been identified; it claimed Biotrial failed three major issues: The study should have been stopped when the first subject was hospitalized so the drug would not have been given to five others; the incident should have been reported immediately, namely January 10, not four days later; all other subjects should have been notified right away asking them if they would like to continue in the study. The Health Minister noted further that a number of the trial protocol provisions had been too vague and not precise enough; that the eligibility criteria should have been more explicit regarding substance use habits of the volunteers and that there was no legal requirement for the sponsor to disclose all pre-clinical data to the ANSM. The Minister announced that all clinical trials in France in the event of a serious, unexpected adverse event such as this would be explicitly required to re-consent the remaining trial participants. The Comité de Protection des Personnes (CPP) in Brest, a research ethics committee, has asked Bial for the exclusion criteria on the consuming cannabis and other psychoactive substances.\n\nBiotrial published a detailed response on its website, expressing its disappointment to learn of the report via the media and not prior to its publication from the Health Ministry. It stated the trial was halted as soon as it became apparent that the first volunteer had a serious adverse event, and that the man's initial symptoms on 10 January had been mild enough that he was expected to return to the trial facility on 11 January which is why it did not re-consent all volunteers. CHU informed Biotrial at 10:00 am on 11 January that the man had likely had a stroke, at which point the trial was halted, though it was not known whether the stroke had anything to do with the study drug. This was after further doses had been given to the other volunteers (at 8:00 am that morning). Biotrial's statement offered no comment on the time taken between the trial halt at 10:00 am on the 11th and the notification of the authorities three days later on the 14th.\n\nThe final report from the ANSM Committee appointed to investigate the matter concluded in April 2016 that:\n\"[T]he most likely hypothesis to date is that of toxicity specific to the molecule via its binding to other brain cell structures, facilitated by (1) its low specificity for its target enzyme; (2) use of multiple doses a lot higher than those leading (at least in humans) to complete and lasting FAAH inhibition, and; (3) its probable gradual accumulation in the brain, undoubtedly related to the specific pharmacokinetic features of BIA 10‐2474.\"\n\nThe Committee also criticised the clinical study design which \"probably significantly contributed to the accident\", noting that administration of the top multi-dose groups did not and could not take into account emerging pharmacokinetic data from latest dose groups and offered no chance to adjust the dose as adverse events emerged. The choice of dose escalation levels (20 to 50 to 100 mg) was based on pharmacokinetic data from the 10 mg group and data from the 50 mg dose group (that would have clearly shown non-proportional dose kinetics) were not yet available when administration to the 100 mg multi-dose group commenced.\n\nThe Committee made six recommendations, which it invited European and International regulators to consider (reproduced here in brief):\n\nA European Medicines Agency (EMA) spokesperson said in January 2016 that \"EU authorities will look carefully at the findings to determine if further measures are needed to protect health of clinical trial participants. Until EU authorities have the full picture, it is not possible to say whether any revisions to EU guidelines are required\". Later, in July 2016, the agency proposed to revise its key first-in-human clinical trial guideline, the last significant revision having been published in response to the 2006 TGN1412 clinical trial that had had similarly dire effects in its trial volunteers. The EMA stated the proposal aimed to address risks posed by complex trials, such as the one undertaken in Rennes, having 'several steps of clinical development within a single clinical trial protocol'.\n\nThe European Investment Bank, which provided 110 million euros in funding for Bial's FAAH inhibitor programme stated it had been in contact with the company about the incident, but that \"it would be premature to consider recall of the EIB loan at this stage\".\n\nThe US Food and Drug Administration issued a statement that it was in contact with its counterparts the ANSM as well as the EMA and announced investigations into FAAH inhibitors as a drug class.\"FDA is in the process of collecting and reviewing safety information pertinent to FAAH inhibitors under investigation in the US. FDA will work with sponsors to ensure the safety of participants in clinical studies and take regulatory action as appropriate.\" Later, in August 2016, the Agency issued a further statement: \"The Agency has found, based on the available information, that BIA 10-2474 exhibits a unique toxicity that does not extend to other drugs in the class, called fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitors.\"\n\nThe German drug regulator, the Bundesinstitut für Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte (BfArM) issued a statement 19 January that no clinical trials with FAAH inhibitors were underway in Germany, but that it had authorised seven such trials previously, which were completed without serious incidents.\n\nThe Rennes University Hospital provided updates on the remaining volunteers in the study and the treating specialists later published a medical report describing the sickened volunteers in November 2016 in The New England Journal of Medicine. The published medical report described the adverse events as \"An acute and rapidly progressive neurologic syndrome [of which] the main clinical features were headache, a cerebellar syndrome, memory impairment, and altered consciousness\". The authors were of the view that \"the toxic effects we observed were related to drug accumulation. This hypothesis is supported by the nonlinear pharmacokinetics of BIA 10-2474 for doses higher than 40 to 100 mg\" and as reported by the ANSM's expert committee. The authors were not however granted access to information from the post-mortem of the man who died.\n\nOf the five survivors from the top dose group and the other trial participants:\n\n\nNews reports from March 2016 described the condition of Stéphane Schubhan (42), a professional photographer from La Flèche, Sarthe and participant of the top dose cohort. Mr. Schubhan \"sleeps badly, has nightmares, sees double at all times, walks with difficulty, and succumbs to dizziness and nausea if he stands more than 10 minutes at a time\" and does not know if he will be able to work again. Mr. Schubhan said he had participated in a previous clinical trial, but in this case he was never informed about the animal deaths that were later revealed and would never have consented to take part had he known. Doctors have told Schubhan that they hope he will improve over the coming 6–12 months but that they do not know what the outcome will be.\n\nUnder French Law, all clinical trial participants are protected by the 1988 Huriet Law on the protection of persons in clinical research. The BIA 10-2474 trial participants are therefore entitled to financial compensation as well as recourse to civil and criminal proceedings. The family of Guillaume Molinet commenced manslaughter proceedings in late January 2016.\n\nOther pharmaceutical companies, including Merck, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi, and Vernalis, have previously taken other FAAH inhibitors into clinical trials without experiencing such adverse events (e.g., respectively, MK-4409, PF-04457845, JNJ-42165279, SSR411298, and V158866. Related enzyme inhibitor compounds such as URB-597 and LY-2183240 have been sold illicitly as designer drugs.\n\nFollowing the events in Rennes, Janssen announced that it was temporarily suspending dosing in two Phase II clinical trials with its own FAAH inhibitor, JNJ-42165279, headlining the decision as \"precautionary measure follows safety issue with different drug in class\". Janssen was emphatic that no serious adverse events had been reported in any of the clinical trials with JNJ-42165279 to date. Janssen did not state whether the suspension, though voluntary, was at the request of the FDA. The suspension was to remain in effect until more information is available about the BIA 10-2474 study.\n\nPfizer had previously been developing an FAAH inhibitor PF-04457845 for indications including osteoarthritis pain and trauma. A spokesperson commented after the events in Rennes that \"we [Pfizer] did explore the potential of a FAAH-inhibitor for osteoarthritic pain in Phase 2 trials, however, no significant efficacy was observed. The FAAH-inhibitor was recently being evaluated in Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder but this trial was discontinued in 2015 for business reasons. We do not have any active trials in this area\".\n\nSanofi also had been developing an FAAH inhibitor candidate SSR411298 for the treatment of depression. However, a spokesperson stated in January 2016 that \"we have no projects in development that target this enzyme\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52355866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52355866", "title": "Cannabis in Belize", "text": "Cannabis in Belize\n\nThe use of cannabis in Belize is common and largely tolerated; however, possession can result in fines or imprisonment. Possession or use of 10 grams or less on private premises was decriminalized in November 2017.\n\nBelize was until the 1980s the fourth-largest exporter of cannabis to the United States, behind Colombia, Mexico, and Jamaica. But since the mid-1980s, Belize's production has dropped dramatically due to eradication efforts by the Belizean government, supported by the United States. By 1994, Belizean production was at \"negligible levels.\"\n\nAccording to a 2016 report by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime approximately 8.5% of all Belizeans use cannabis. Belize was ranked 18th out of all countries in prevalence of cannabis use, higher than both the Netherlands and Jamaica.\n\nIn 2012, the Government of Belize announced that it was considering decriminalizing possession of small amounts of cannabis. On October 20, 2017, the House of Representatives passed an amendment to the Misuse of Drugs Act decriminalizing possession or use of 10 grams or less on private premises. The bill was signed into law in early November by the Governor General, despite objections from the National Evangelical Association of Belize.\n\nAlthough legalization of cannabis has never been officially considered by the government, some prominent public figures in Belize have supported the idea. In 2017, the Leader of the Opposition, John Briceño, stated, \"It is time for us to stop locking up our young people for a stick of weed. The time has come for us to decriminalize marijuana smoking and prepare the necessary research to move to legalizing marijuana for medicinal purposes and in small quantities.\" In a 2017 op-ed, former Senator Lisa Shoman stated, \"There is no rational excuse to refuse to move past decriminalization to legalization of personal use amounts for adults.\"\n\nIn 2016, an American tourist off a cruise ship was arrested for purchasing 1.8 grams of cannabis in Belize City. Her charges were dismissed, with the judge noting the cannabis was sold openly to her and she appeared to believe it was legal, and she was cautioned against ever possessing drugs in Belize again.\n"}
{"id": "1301311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1301311", "title": "Coccidia", "text": "Coccidia\n\nCoccidia (Coccidiasina) are a subclass of microscopic, spore-forming, single-celled obligate intracellular parasites belonging to the apicomplexan class Conoidasida. \nAs obligate intracellular parasites, they must live and reproduce within an animal cell. Coccidian parasites infect the intestinal tracts of animals, and are the largest group of apicomplexan protozoa.\n\nInfection with these parasites is known as coccidiosis. Coccidia can infect all mammals, some birds, some fish, some reptiles, and some amphibians. Most species of coccidia are species-specific in their host. An exception is \"Toxoplasma gondii\", which can infect all mammals, although it can only undergo sexual reproduction in cats. Depending on the species of coccidia, infection can cause fever, vomiting, diarrhea, muscle pain, and nervous system effects and changes to behavior, and may lead to death. Healthy adults may recover without medication—but those who are immunocompromised or young almost certainly require medication to prevent death. Humans generally become infected by eating under-cooked meat, but can contract infection with \"T. gondii\" by poor hygiene when handling cat waste.\n\nThe class is divided into four orders, which are distinguished by the presence or absence of various asexual and sexual stages:\n\n\nThe order Eucoccidiorida is divided into two suborders. These two groups differ in their sexual development: syzygy for Adeleorina and independent gametes for Eimeriorina.\n\nThe first suborder, Adeleorina, comprises coccidia of invertebrates and the coccidia that alternate between blood-sucking invertebrates and various vertebrates; this group includes \"Haemogregarina\" and \"Hepatozoon\". There are seven families in this suborder.\n\nThe second suborder, Eimeriorina, comprises coccidia of a variety of coccidia many of form cysts. A number of genera, including \"Toxoplasma\" and \"Sarcocystis\", infect vertebrates.\n\nInfected animals spread spores called oocysts in their stool. The oocysts mature, called sporulation. When another animal passes over the location where the feces were deposited, they may pick up the spores, which they then ingest when grooming themselves. The spores may also be ingested by mice; when another animal eats the mouse it becomes infected.\n\nSome species of coccidia are transmissible to humans, including toxoplasma and cryptosporidium.\n\nInside the host, the sporulated oocyst opens, and eight sporozites are released. Each one finds a home in an intestinal cell and starts the process of reproduction. These offspring are called merozoites. When the cell is stuffed full of merozoites, it bursts open, and each merozoite finds its own intestinal cell to continue the cycle.\n\nAs the infection continues, millions of intestinal cells may become infected. As they break open, they produce a bloody, watery diarrhea. This can cause dehydration, and can lead to death in young or small pets.\n\nCoccidiosis can be diagnosed by finding oocysts in fecal smears. In early stages of the disease, there may be very few oocysts being shed, and a negative test does not rule out the disease.\n\nCoccidiosis is most commonly treated through the administration of coccidiostats, a group of medications that stop coccidia from reproducing. In dogs and cats, the most commonly administered coccidiostat is sulfa-based antibiotics. Once reproduction stops, the animal can usually recover on its own, a process that can take a few weeks, depending on the severity of the infection and the strength of the animal's immune system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39730780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39730780", "title": "Colin Chisholm (medical writer)", "text": "Colin Chisholm (medical writer)\n\nColin Chisholm M.D. (1755–1825) was a Scottish surgeon, medical writer and Fellow of the Royal Society.\n\nChisholm served as a military surgeon to the British forces in the American War of Independence. After the war was over, he moved to practise medicine in Grenada; he went there in 1783, at the invitation of John Rollo. In 1790 he visited Demerara, purchasing a cotton plantation. He also picked up an eye remedy from the Arawak Indians, based on a \"Bignonia\" genus root.\n\nIn 1793 Chisholm was awarded the M.D. degree by King's College, Aberdeen. In 1795 he was made surgeon-general to the ordnance. Attached to Ralph Abercromby's expedition, he then spent five months in the Virgin Islands in 1797, and was promoted to inspector-general of hospitals.\n\nChisholm retired on half-pay in 1800, moving to his estate in Demerara, where he spent three years growing cotton. Then he migrated back to Europe. He settled in Bristol, where he had a good medical practice.\n\nChisholm was elected a fellow of the Royal Society on 24 November 1808. His latter days were mainly spent in retirement on the continent. He died in Sloane Street, London, at the beginning of 1825.\n\nBesides papers in medical journals, including the \"Medical Repository\", Andrew Duncan's \"Medical Commentaries\", and Duncan's \"Annals of Medicine\", Chisholm was the author of:\n\n\nThe controversy on yellow fever continued well into the 19th century. Usher Parsons writing in 1836 denied it was contagious, and stated that quarantine was useless against it, while citing the views of Chisholm (on two kinds of yellow fever), Pym and James Fellowes, and believers in \"contingent contagion\". James Ormiston McWilliam had his 1847 report on an outbreak at Boa Vista published by the UK Parliament.\n\nIn 1794 Chisholm married Elizabeth Cooper in Inverness. His daughter Janet (c.1800–1890) married Thomas Waddington (1792–1869), a son of the cotton merchant William Waddington (1751–1818) who emigrated to France. William Henry Waddington was their son.\n\n"}
{"id": "40623623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40623623", "title": "Computer-assisted interventions", "text": "Computer-assisted interventions\n\nComputer-assisted interventions (CAI) is a field of research and practice, where medical interventions are supported by computer-based tools and methodologies. Examples include:\n\nThe basic paradigm of patient-specific interventional medicine is a closed loop process, consisting of \n\nThe experience gathered over many patients may be combined to improve treatment plans and protocols for future patients. This process has existed since ancient times. Traditionally, all these steps have taken place in the physicians head. The ability of modern computer-based technology to assist humans in processing and acting on complex information will profoundly enhance this process in the 21st Century.\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nIn order to gain an explicit and formal understanding of surgery, the field of analyses and modelling of surgical procedures has recently emerged. The challenge is to support the surgeon and the surgical procedure through the understanding of Operating Room (OR) activities, with the help of sensor- or human-based systems. Related surgical models can then be introduced into a new generation of Computer-Assisted Interventions systems to improve the management of complex multimodal information, improve surgical workflows, increase surgical efficiency and the quality of care in the OR. Models created by these different approaches may have a large impact in future surgical innovations, whether for planning, intra-operative or post-operative purposes.\n\nThis idea of describing the surgical procedure as a sequence of tasks was first introduced by MacKenzie et al. (2001). and formalised in Jannin et al., 2001. The term Surgical Process (SP) has been defined as a set of one or more linked procedures or activities that collectively realise a surgical objective within the context of an organisational structure defining functional roles and relationships. This term is generally used to describe the steps involved in a surgical procedure. A Surgical Process Model (SPM) has been defined as a simplified pattern of an SP that reflects a predefined subset of interest of the SP in a formal or semi-formal representation. It relates to the performance of an SP with support from a workflow management system.\n\nSurgical process models are described from observer based acquisition, or sensor-based acquisition (such as signals, or videos,).\n\nRelated terms: Surgical workflow analysis, …\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nyour text here\n\nThe international society Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention Society (the MICCAI Society) is dedicated to the promotion, preservation and facilitation of research, education and practice in the field of medical image computing and computer-assisted medical interventions including biomedical imaging and robotics, through the organization and operation of regular high quality international conferences and publications which promote and foster the exchange and dissemination of advanced knowledge, expertise and experience in the field produced by leading institutions and outstanding scientists, physicians and educators around the world.\n\nThe International Society for Computer Assisted Surgery (ISCAS) is a non-profit association. Its mission is to encourage all scientific and clinical advancement of computer-aided surgery and related medical interventions throughout the world.\nIts primary goals are:\nIts scope encompasses all fields within surgery, as well as biomedical imaging and instrumentation, and digital technology employed as an adjunct to imaging in diagnosis, therapeutics, and surgery.\n\nMICCAI organizes an annual conference and associated workshops. Proceedings for this conference are published by Springer in the Lecture Notes in Computer Science series. General topics of the conference include medical image computing, computer-assisted intervention, guidance systems and robotics, visualization and virtual reality, computer-aided diagnosis, bioscience and biology applications, specific imaging systems, and new imaging applications.\n\nInternational Conference on Information Processing in Computer-Assisted Interventions (IPCAI) is a premiere international forum for technical innovations, system development and clinical studies in computer-assisted interventions. IPCAI includes papers presenting novel technical concepts, clinical needs and applications as well as hardware, software and systems and their validation.\n\nThe Computer Assisted Radiology and Surgery (CARS) congress is the annual event for a distinguished international community of scientists, engineers and physicians to present and discuss the key innovations that shape modern medicine on a worldwide basis. Founded in 1985, CARS has played a leading role in medical and imaging informatics for more than 25 years by focusing on research and development on novel algorithms and systems and their applications in radiology and surgery. Its growth and impact is due to CARS’s close collaboration with the ISCAS and EuroPACS societies, and CAR, CAD and CMI organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "22813272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22813272", "title": "Dana Jurásková", "text": "Dana Jurásková\n\nDana Jurásková (born 21 September 1961) is a Czech politician. She was the Minister of Health in the caretaker government of Jan Fischer.\n"}
{"id": "39340112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39340112", "title": "Dynacare", "text": "Dynacare\n\nDynacare is a medical laboratory services company based in Brampton, Ontario, Canada. Dynacare operates laboratories in Brampton, Bowmanville, London, Ottawa, Thunder Bay, Pointe-Claire, Laval, and Winnipeg. In addition to the main laboratories Dynacare operates patient services centers throughout Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta. British Columbia\n\nDynacare is an operational partnership founded in 1997 as Gamma-Dynacare between: Dynacare Laboratories; Gamma North Peel Partnership Inc.; and Bio-Science Laboratory (Ontario) Limited. In 2002 Dynacare Laboratories (one of the Dynacare partners) was acquired by LabCorp for $480-million (U.S.) while also assuming Dynacare debt worth $205-million. In 2015, it rebranded itself back to Dynacare.\n\nIn 2011 Dynacare acquired the medical laboratory division of Warnex Inc. (TSX:WNX) for $7.5 Million.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37750900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37750900", "title": "Dyssynergia", "text": "Dyssynergia\n\nDyssynergia is any disturbance of muscular coordination, resulting in uncoordinated and abrupt movements. This is also an aspect of ataxia. It is typical for dyssynergic patients to split a movement into several smaller movements. Types of dyssynergia include Ramsay Hunt syndrome type 1, bladder sphincter dyssynergia, and anal sphincter dyssynergia.\n\nDyssynergia can be caused by disruption or damage between the brainstem and the sacral spinal cord. Damage to the spinal cord can be caused by injury or acquired through hereditary means such as myelodysplasia. Other hereditary means of dyssynergia can be from multiple sclerosis and various manifestations of transverse myelitis.\n\nIn addition, most brain damage to the cerebellum will cause dyssynergia. The cerebellum is split into three separate parts: the archicerebellum (controls equilibrium and helps to move the eye, head and neck), midline vermis (helps to move lower body), and lateral hemisphere (control of arms and quick movements). Damage to any part of the cerebellum can cause a disconnect between nerve cells and muscles, causing impaired muscle coordination.\n\nRamsay Hunt syndrome type 1 is a rare, neurodegenerative disorder characterized by myoclonus, intention tremor, progressive ataxia and occasionally dementia.\n\nBladder sphincter dyssynergia also known as detrusor sphincter dyssynergia is the decrease of detrusor (wall muscle of the bladder) pressure which causes unwanted urination. This is very common in spinal cord injuries and multiple sclerosis patients. There is a malfunction between the central nervous system, urinary sphincters, and detrusor muscles.\n\nAnal sphincter dyssynergia also known as pelvic floor dyssynergia is the weakening of the pelvic floor or sphincters in the anus. The pelvic floor are the muscles that attach to the pelvis in the abdomen. Anal sphincter dyssynergia can be caused by obstructions, but mostly improper relaxing of the anal sphincters or pelvic floor muscle during defecation. Also if there is a decrease in intrarectal pressure defecation can occur.\n\nAnal sphincter dyssynergia tends to be one of the most predicted diagnoses with a patient suffering from symptoms like chronic constipation and inability to control bowel movements. Diagnosis techniques for dyssynergia have been known to be expensive and aren’t commonly offered at some countrywide hospitals. Fortunately, there are still special tests and examinations that can be done given the proper medical care and treatment to properly detect and diagnose dyssynergia. Those following treatments include: anorectal manometry (balloon expulsion test and anal sphincter EMG), defecography studies, and digital rectal examinations (DRE).\n\nAnorectal manometry involves two separate tests: the balloon expulsion test and anal sphincter electromyography (EMG). These tests are performed in order to properly identify and diagnose dyssynergia. In order to prepare for these tests, a patient must fast and perform specific enemas recommended by their doctor two hours before their tests. When undergoing the balloon expulsion test, the patient has a small balloon inserted into their rectum, which is then inflated and filled with water. The patient is then instructed to go to the nearest bathroom and to attempt to defecate the balloon, where the time it takes is recorded by the doctors. An abnormal or prolonged time of expulsion of the balloon is seen as a problem in the anorectum region of the body and may lead to the diagnosis of dyssynergia, since the patient has a lack of control over their anorectal muscle contractions. Another technique used by doctors to test for dyssynergia is the anal sphincter EMG. This test involves the insertion of an electrode into the patient’s anal cavity, where they are asked to relax and push, as if they are trying to defecate. The electrical activity and contractile pressures of the patient’s anorectal contractions are recorded on a computer monitor and examined by the doctor. If the electrical activity of the contractions appear normal, but the patient still results in constipation, it would indicate that there is a problem in the muscle activity or that there might be a tear in the muscle. This can help lead to a diagnosis of dyssynergia or an alternative surgical cure.\n\nIn defecography studies, doctors take an X-Ray of the patient and examine their rectum as it empties during defecation. Before the examination, patients are instructed to drink barium an hour before the examination. Barium paste is then inserted into the rectal and anal cavity, and for female patients X-Ray dye is placed on the urinary bladder and in the vagina. The barium is used so that the digestive tract, such as the intestines, rectal cavity, and anal cavity can be seen clearly on the X-Ray and the muscle movements can be examined by doctors.\n\nDuring a digital rectal examinations (DRE), a doctor will wear a lubricated latex glove and gently insert one finger, or digit, into the patient’s anus to perform a physical examination of the lower pelvic regions. This test is traditionally used for men to check the prostate gland for any abnormal bumps or growths, and for women to check the uterus and ovaries. This test can help identify complications that may be causing abnormal bowel habits, which can help properly diagnose cases of dyssynergia.\n\nAlpha blockers have been studied when treating people with detrusor sphincter dyssynergia (DSD). Terazosin has shown no reduction in voiding pressures with people who have suffered from spinal cord injuries, while Tamsulosin was given to patients with MS and resulted in improvement of post void residual measurements. However, it is not advised to use alpha blockers due to the lack of data supporting their success.\nAnti-spasmodic medications have also been tested on people with DSD. Oral Baclofen has limited benefit in treating DSD because it has low permeability across the blood brain barrier.\nIntermittent catheters are used most frequently to treat DSD. The catheter is able to be inserted and removed from a person's bladder several times a day, so it is not permanently installed. This is to help people who struggle to empty their bladder. It is recommended that a person does not empty their bladder until a catheter is installed and stabilized. By having the catheter, the goal is to help reduce spasms within the sphincter. Ultrasound can be used to help track how effective the use of the catheter is. If a person struggles with using an intermittent catheter, than an indwelling catheter can be used instead. The indwelling has the same function, however it is designed to remain in the bladder.\n\nBotulinum A Toxin (BTX A) is injected into the external sphincter via cystoscopic or ultrasound. Botox blocks the release of acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter that is needed for muscle contraction. With the release of acetylcholine inhibited, muscles will become more relaxed.\n\nUrethral stents are thin wires that are placed within the urethra to either treat or prevent obstruction of urine flowing from the kidney. The stents can either be placed temporarily or permanently.\n\nSphincterotomy is the most invasive treatment to use when treating DSD. The purpose of the treatment is to create a low pressure within the bladder as well as impair the external sphincter. Electrocautery is used to cut out the external sphincter, which can result in a lot of bleeding. A catheter is then used to help relieve pressure that can occur.\n\n"}
{"id": "14633375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14633375", "title": "ECOCERT", "text": "ECOCERT\n\nECOCERT is an organic certification organization, founded in France in 1991. It is based in Europe but conducts inspections in over 80 countries, making it one of the largest organic certification organizations in the world.\n\nECOCERT's co-founder and CEO is William Vidal. It began as a partnership between European nations, but has gradually expanded to many other nations around the world. The company's French headquarters are located in L'Isle-Jourdain, Gers, France, and its ECOCERT INTERNATIONAL division which was previously based in Northeim, Germany, is shifted now to L'Isle-Jourdain.\n\nECOCERT primarily certifies food and food products, but also certifies cosmetics, detergents, perfumes, and textiles. The company inspects about 70% of the organic food industry in France and about 30% worldwide. ECOCERT is also a leading certifier of fair trade food, cosmetics and textiles as per ECOCERT Fair Trade standards. \n\nECOCERT has subsidiaries in several countries:\n\n"}
{"id": "46461872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46461872", "title": "EQ-5D", "text": "EQ-5D\n\nEQ-5D is a standardized instrument for measuring generic health status. The health status measured with EQ-5D is used for estimating preference weight for that health status, then by combining the weight with time, quality-adjusted life year (QALY) can be computed. QALYs gained is used as an outcome in cost-utility analysis which is a type of economic evaluation that compares the benefit and cost of health care programs or interventions. Many countries generated a value set (preference weights) of their own population and have used it for estimating QALY to make decisions in resource allocation. There are currently 171 language versions of EQ-5D questionnaire available. EQ-5D is one of the most commonly used generic health status measurement, and its good validity and reliability have been reported in various health conditions.\n\nEQ-5D was first introduced in 1990 by the EuroQol Group. This group was initially formed in 1987 with the researchers of multidisciplinary areas from five European countries; Netherlands, UK, Sweden, Finland, and Norway. They worked cooperatively with the aim of developing an instrument which is not specific to disease but standardized and can be used as a complement for existing health-related quality of life (HRQoL) measures. Other required characteristics of the new instrument were capable of being sent as a postal questionnaire for self-completion, easy to complete, applicable to everyone, can produce a single index value, and can take into account the health status ‘worse than dead’.\n\nThe EQ-5D questionnaire is made up for two components; health state description and evaluation.\n\nIn description part, health status is measured in terms of five dimensions (5D); mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Mobility dimension asks about the person's walking ability. Self-care dimension asks about the ability to wash or dress by oneself, and usual activities dimension measures performance in \"work, study, housework, family or leisure activities\". In pain/discomfort dimension, it asks how much pain or discomfort they have, and in anxiety/depression dimension, it asks how anxious or depressed they are. The respondents self-rate their level of severity for each dimension using three-level (EQ-5D-3L) or five-level (EQ-5D-5L) scale.\n\nIn evaluation part, the respondents evaluate their overall health status using the visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS).\n\nWhen EQ-5D was first developed, the scale used in the health state description part was three-level; having no problems, having some or moderate problems, being unable to do/having extreme problems. As an example, three levels of mobility dimension are phrased as \"I have no problems in walking about\", \"I have some problems in walking about\", and \"I am confined to bed\". The respondents are asked to choose one of the statements which best describes their health status of surveyed day. Rated level can be coded as a number 1, 2, or 3, which indicates having no problems for 1, having some problems for 2, and having extreme problems for 3. As a result, a person's health status can be defined by a 5-digit number, ranging from 11111 (having no problems in all dimensions) to 33333 (having extreme problems in all dimensions). 12321 indicates having no problems in mobility and anxiety/depression, having slight problems in self-care and pain/discomfort, and having extreme problems in usual activities. There are potentially 243 (=3) different health states.\n\nA 'youth version' of the EQ-5D-3L descriptive system was developed for self-completion by children and younger people. It includes equivalent dimensions to the original EQ-5D-3L, phrased so as to be more easily understood and relevant for younger people. The dimensions are: 'mobility', 'looking after myself', 'doing usual activities', 'having pain or discomfort' and 'feeling worried, sad or unhappy'.\n\nAlthough its brevity contributed a lot for the wide use of EQ-5D, the three-level scale showed some limitations. The major drawback is that it has much fewer descriptive capability of health status compared to other generic instruments. For example, the Health Utilities Index Mark 2 and Mark 3 (HUI 2 and HUI 3) and the Short Form 6D (SF-6D) can define 24,000, 972,000, and 18,000 unique health states, while EQ-5D-3L can do only 243. As a consequence, it suffers from ceiling and flowing effect and showed low sensitivity to catch small changes of health status especially when used to patients with milder conditions. To improve such constraints of the three-level scale, the new version of EQ-5D with five-level scale was developed (EQ-5D-5L). The number of levels of severity was increased to five in this new version; having no problems, having slight problems, having moderate problems, having severe problems and being unable to do/having extreme problems. The new version can define 3,125 (=5) different health states. Some of the wordings of the scale were revisited to be clearer and the instruction for EQ-VAS was simplified. No changes were made for the five dimensions.\n\nThe validity and reliability of the EQ-5D have been assessed for the different language versions and various health conditions, including cancer, type 2 diabetes, COPD, asthma, and cardiovascular disease, and so on. The 5L system showed improved responsiveness compared to the 3L system, and also good validity and reliability . EQ-5D-5L has also been recommended to the elderly population as a generic health status measurement, in combination with other supplementary measurements to capture all related aspects in their quality-of-life.\n\nVisual analogue scale is the second part of the questionnaire, asking to mark health status on the day of the interview on a 20 cm vertical scale with end points of 0 and 100. There are notes at the both ends of the scale that the bottom rate (0) corresponds to \" the worst health you can imagine\", and the highest rate (100) corresponds to \"the best health you can imagine\". In the EQ-5D-3L version, the respondents has to draw a line from the box on the questionnaire to the scale indicates the health state of the interviewed day, while the EQ-5D-5L version asks to mark X on the scale to indicate the today's health and write the number of the scale marked in the empty box on the questionnaire. A well-known limitation of visual analogue scale is end-of-scale bias that respondents are less likely to use the extreme ends of the scale for rating their health status. However, it is still useful and the simplest direct method for valuing health-related quality of life (HRQoL) weights.\n\nOnce the health status is assessed from the description part, the 5-digit number can be converted into a preference weight which is also referred to as a single weighted index score. It can be done by using methods for generating HRQoL weights, such as visual analogue scale (VAS), the time-trade-off (TTO), and the standard gamble (SG). The choice of the valuation methods can vary. The initial purpose of having visual analogue scale in the EQ-5D questionnaire was to get preference weights using the scale, but the time-trade-off has become favored because it is a \"choice task\", not a \"rating task\" which easily involves some scaling bias. Time-trade-off is recommended when performing cost-utility analysis using quality-adjusted life year (QALY) as an outcome, but other methods could be chosen for different type of analyses. A value set was developed using time-trade-off in many countries, including the United Kingdom, United States, Spain, Japan, and Germany. The index score of a value set derived from the general population sample can be regarded as a \"\"societal\" valuation of the respondent's health state\" in that country. In contrast, the scores from the visual analogue scale in the questionnaire indicates the respondent's \"own\" assessment of his/her health status\". A value set derived from the general population sample has been criticized for a lack of a compelling theoretical support.\n"}
{"id": "13206885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13206885", "title": "Electrically conducting yarn", "text": "Electrically conducting yarn\n\nAn electrically conducting yarn is a yarn that conducts electricity. Conducting yarns are used to manufacture carpets and other items that dissipate static electricity, such as work clothes in highly flammable environments, e.g., in the petrochemistry industry.\n\nThere are several methods known to manufacture electrically conductive textiles. The simplest way is to incorporate metal wires or wire meshes into fabrics. Another approach is to use metalized yarns. In staple yarns, it is possible to spin short strands of regular yarns with metal yarns. Electrically conducting yarns may be made of a central metal strand with regular yarn woven around it. It is however also possible to coat a base polymer (such as Polyamide 6 or Polyester) with metal like silver. Yarns of that sort are for example \"Shieldex\" or \"SwicoSilver\".\n\nAn altogether different approach involves yarns based on conductive polymers, such as polyaniline.\n\nElectrically conductive yarns can also be produced from carbon nanotubes (CNT). Individual CNT-based fibers are spun (wet spinning) into a fiber directly from a solution. The solution either contains pre-made dissolved CNTs or the combination of chemicals required to synthesis CNTs. Tens to hundreds of individual fibers can be woven into a yarn. CNT-based yarns find applications in energy and electrochemical water treatment and can replace copper windings, e.g. in motors, which would improve the efficiency and consequently reduce the use of energy. \n"}
{"id": "50504513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50504513", "title": "Ergonomic hazard", "text": "Ergonomic hazard\n\nErgonomic hazards are physical conditions that may pose risk of injury to the musculoskeletal system, such as the muscles or ligaments of the lower back, tendons or nerves of the hands/wrists, or bones surrounding the knees. Ergonomic hazards include things such as awkward or extreme postures, whole-body or hand/arm vibration, poorly designed tools, equipment, or workstations, repetitive motion, and poor lighting. Ergonomic hazards occur in both occupational and non-occupational settings such as in workshops, building sites, offices, home, school, or public spaces and facilities.\n"}
{"id": "24515769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24515769", "title": "FAO Country Profiles", "text": "FAO Country Profiles\n\nThe FAO Country Profiles is a multilingual web portal which repackages the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) vast archive of information on its global activities in agriculture and food security in a single area and catalogues it exclusively by country and thematic areas.\n\nThe portal's purpose is to offer decision-makers, researchers and project formulators around the world a fast and reliable way to access country-specific information on national food security situations without the need to search individual databases and systems. It gives added-value to FAO's wealth of information by providing an easy-to-use interface containing interactive maps and charts.\n\nFAO has always highlighted information and Knowledge sharing as priority areas in fighting hunger and achieving food security. In this context, FAO identified that countries could improve their national programmes on agriculture and food security if they could access FAO's information through a cross-sectoral (or interdisciplinary) country-based approach. However, despite the existence of a large number of country-based information systems in FAO, the information managed by the various systems lacked integration. Information tended to be generated and used in a circumscribed manner and tailored to a specific system, department or sector.\n\nThe FAO Country Profiles portal, initially called FAO Country Profiles and Mapping Information System, was launched in 2002 responding to the Organization's need to provide FAO web site's users an easy to use mechanism to find FAO country-specific information without the need to search individual FAO web sites, databases or systems. The system was designed to integrate analytical and multilingual information with thematic databases and digital map repositories and to facilitate access to information on multiple factors contributing to national food insecurity.\n\nSince its launch, the system has grown by incorporating more and more data sources. This was achieved thanks to a corporate effort to reduce information silos and the adoption of international standards for country-based information management throughout the Organization.\n\nThe methodology behind the FAO Country Profiles is rather simple; it links, reuses and repackages data and information from most relevant existing FAO databases and systems.\n\nThe FAO Country Profiles covers current FAO Members and Associated Nations. Once a country is selected, the portal presents to the user documents, news feeds, statistical data, project details and maps from relevant FAO databases and systems for the selected country and categorized according to thematic areas.\n\nThe thematic areas are grouped in two categories:\n\n\nCountry pages provide access to or integrate the following thematic profiles and systems.\n\n\n\n\nThere are various international standards and coding systems to manage country information. Historically, systems dealing with different types of data used different coding systems that were tailored to specific data type requirements. For example, statistical systems in the United Nations commonly use the M-49 classification and pigmentation (also known as UN code) or the FAOSTAT area classification; mapping systems could use geographic coordinates or GAUL codes; textual systems (document repositories or web sites) could use ISO 3166-1 alpha-2, ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 or AGROVOC keywords; etc.\n\nThe FAO Country Profiles provide access to systems managing statistics, documents, maps, news feeds, etc., therefore one of its key aspects to succeed was the mapping of all these country codes.\n\nFor this purpose a geopolitical ontology was developed. This ontology, among other features, maps ISO2, ISO3, AGROVOC, FAOSTAT, FAOTERM, GAUL, UN, and UNDP codes for all countries.\n\nBesides the profiles for each country the portal also provides access to other important global resources, such as:\n\nThe FAO Country Profiles keeps updated for the public the list of LIFDC countries. This list is revised every year according to the methodology explained below. The new list of the LIFDC, stands at 62 countries, four less than in the (2012) list. These are: Georgia, Syrian Arab Republic, Timor-Leste, Republic of Moldova. While Moldova graduated from the list on the basis of net food-exporter criterion, the other graduated based on income criterion.\n\nThe classification of a country as low-income food-deficit used for analytical purposes by FAO is traditionally determined by three criteria:\n\n\nIn order to avoid countries changing their LIFDC status too frequently - typically due to short-term, exogenous shocks - an additional factor was introduced in 2001. This factor, called \"persistence of position\", would postpone the \"exit\" of a LIFDC from the list, despite the country not meeting the LIFDC income criterion or the food-deficit criterion, until the change in its status is verified for three consecutive years.\n\nThe FAO Country Profiles is FAO's source for dissemination of FAO's Member Nations and Associated Nations official flags. The update of any country flag is coordinated with the other United Nations agencies. All flags are made available in a standardized manner which also aims to help web site owners to ensure that they always display the official country flag.\n\nThe standard URL for any given country flag would be composed by: the generic URL: \"http://www.fao.org/countryprofiles/flags/\" to which the ISO 3166-1 Alpha-2 code for the country is added, plus the image format suffix \".gif\". For instance, the URL for the Argentina flag would be: http://www.fao.org/countryprofiles/flags/AR.gif, with AR being the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Argentina.\n\nEarly criticism of the FAO Country Profiles was that, in its inception phase, it only contained very few resources. Since 2002, the number of available resources has increased to cover country-based information and data, directly linked from FAO's web pages or FAO's digital repositories. Over the last years, another identified area for improvement was the simplicity of the system methodology, being the resources only linked from country pages and thus, lacking real integration. This need was addressed by starting to integrate additional data, such as, the fisheries charts or the news and events items taken from AgriFeeds. In addition, in order to provide more complete country profiles, the system started to link or integrate non-FAO resources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24391644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24391644", "title": "Food rheology", "text": "Food rheology\n\nFood rheology is the study of the rheological properties of food, that is, the consistency and flow of food under tightly specified conditions. The consistency, degree of fluidity, and other mechanical properties are important in understanding how long food can be stored, how stable it will remain, and in determining food texture. The acceptability of food products to the consumer is often determined by food texture, such as how spreadable and creamy a food product is. Food rheology is important in quality control during food manufacture and processing. Food rheology terms have been noted since ancient times. In ancient Egypt bakers judged the consistency of dough by rolling it in their hands.\n\nThere is a large body of literature on food rheology because the study of food rheology entails unique factors beyond an understanding of the basic rheological dynamics of the flow and deformation of matter. Food can be classified according to its rheological state, such as a solid, gel, liquid, emulsion with associated rheological behaviors, and its rheological properties can be measured. These properties will affect the design of food processing plants, as well as shelf life and other important factors, including sensory properties that appeal to consumers. Because foods are structurally complex, often a mixture of fluid and solids with varying properties within a single mass, the study of food rheology is more complicated than study in fields such as the rheology of polymers. However, food rheology is something we experience every day with our perception of food texture (see below) and basic concepts of food rheology well apply to polymers physics, oil flow etc. For this reason, examples of food rheology are didactically useful to explain the dynamics of other materials we are less familiar with. Ketchup is commonly used an example of Bingham fluid and its flow behavior can be compared to that of a polymer melt.\nPsychorheology is the sensory judgement of rheological properties. It is a term used in the food industry, to describe how a food \"feels\" to the mouth. It is not necessarily straightforward to predict how a food will \"feel\" based purely on the true rheological properties.\n\nThe most important factor in food rheology is consumer perception of the product. This perception is affected by how the food looks on the plate as well as how it feels in the mouth, or \"mouthfeel\". Mouthfeel is influenced by how food moves or flows once it is in a person's mouth and determines how desirable the food is seen to be.\n\n"}
{"id": "17732670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17732670", "title": "Gelre Hospitals", "text": "Gelre Hospitals\n\nGelre Hospitals () is a group of hospitals comprising hospitals in Apeldoorn and Zutphen, and an outpatient clinic in Lochem. As of 31 December 2006, Gelre Hospitals maintains a total of 925 beds, 115 full-time physicians (for a total of 190 physicians), and 3300 total personnel. Gelre Hospitals serves as a teaching hospital for medical residents in 12 specialties, as well as for nurses and laboratory, radiological and surgical assistants.\n\nLukas hospital is the largest hospital in the Gelre group. It is located in the southern part of Apeldoorn () and offers all common medical specialties with the exception of cardiothoracic surgery and neurosurgery. It has a 24/7 emergency department. During 2005 - 2008, it underwent major renovation and expansion, allowing all units from the Juliana site, which was closed in 2009, to move to the Lukas site.\n\nThe Zutphen hospital is the second largest hospital in the Gelre group. It is located in the southeastern part of Zutphen () and offers all common medical specialties with the exception of cardiothoracic surgery and neurosurgery. It has a 24/7 emergency department. An out-of-hours general practitioners clinic is co-located with the emergency department. In 2011, the hospital moved to a new building. The previous building, known as Spittaal, built in 1974, was demolished in 2013.\n\nThe outpatient clinic in Lochem () offers outpatient services for most common specialties, such as cardiology and neurology, including laboratory and basic radiologic facilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "21322962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21322962", "title": "Hagiotherapy", "text": "Hagiotherapy\n\nHagiotherapy is the term used to describe the medieval practice of using religious relics, prayers, pilgrimages etc. to alleviate sickness. It was used to treat epilepsy during the Middle Ages with Saint Valentine particularly associated with the treatment as an 'epilepsy specialist'.\n\n\"Hagiotherapy\" was revived under the influence by pope John Paul II's encyclica \"Salvifici doloris\" as a pseudo-therapeutic method of healing a man's \"spiritual soul\" on the premise of \"religious experience\". A known practicing therapist is Tomislav Ivančić, who founded Center for Spiritual Help in Zagreb. Prokop Remeš in the Czech Republic is treating addicts in Bohnice Psychiatric Hospital in Prague. His style of hagiotherapy isn't founded on the \"Salvifici doloris\" encyclical, it is a type of group existential psychotherapy (Yalom, Frankl), which focuses on eliminating dysfunctional behaviour patterns from one's life. This hagiotherapy uses biblical text as background to project one's own experiences against to active a greater understanding of text: one of the main instruments of hagiotherapy is projective work with biblical texts.\n\nProf. Tomislav Ivančić recently defined hagiotherapy as scientific discipline which aims to heal human soul.\n\nHis thesis was that every human being does not have only physical and psychological dimension, but also spiritual dimension (human soul) that has its own scientific laws and it should be subject of scientific research.\n\nHuman spirit (soul) can be sick, just as can be human body and mind, so it needs to be treated accordingly.\n\nOne of examples prof. Ivančić was talking about many times was an addiction. He was concerned with the fact that so many patients relapse some time after treatment. He explained it with the fact that they were treated only on mental level, and not on spiritual level. According to his opinion, addiction is basically spiritual issue, so it needs to be treated on spiritual level.\n"}
{"id": "10942197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10942197", "title": "Haruchika Noguchi", "text": "Haruchika Noguchi\n\n\nAmong his many books, three are now available in English translation.\nSeitai Inteligencia Vital de Laura López Coto. 2015 (castellano)\n\n"}
{"id": "16489629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16489629", "title": "Health fair", "text": "Health fair\n\nA health fair is an educational and interactive event designed for outreach to provide basic preventive medicine and medical screening to people in the community or employees at work in conjunction with workplace wellness. It can also be a public health intervention.\n\nHealth fairs are typically offered in the community, on site corporations, work sites, churches or schools. The consist of a variety of vendors and exhibitors that educate on all aspects of health, wellness, fitness and lifestyle improvements. Topics can include such things as chiropractic, acupuncture, fitness clubs and hospitals.It is very common to see health screenings such as cholesterol testing or blood pressure screenings. Health Fairs are advertised and promoted ahead of time by print media, radio, or television and are usually a one-day event.\n\nHealth fairs are often organized and run by professional health fair organization companies but can also be done by medical providers, benefits directors, medical students or nurses.\n\nOne example of a health fair is the Florida Keys Health Fairs.\n\nSome health fairs promote unnecessary and potentially harmful testing.\n\nSome tests performed are actually not screening tests, like weight and blood pressure, which are appropriate screening tests for the general population. Instead, they are specialized tests, like vascular ultrasound, which are only appropriate for patients with relevant risk factors. When these tests are performed on the general population, they lead to false positive diagnoses, and dangerous and expensive follow-up testing, which have a risk of strokes and death. Many doctors feel that it is unethical for hospitals and doctors to cooperate with commercial testing services that market directly to the consumer, especially since many of the marketing claims are false.\n\nFor example, a for-profit business called HealthFair offers four cardiovascular disease screening packages, all of which include the following six tests: echocardiogram, electrocardiogram, carotid artery ultrasound, abdominal aortic aneurysm ultrasound, hardening of the arteries test, and peripheral arterial disease test. HealthFair charges $179 for the six tests.\n\nPublic Citizen sent letters to 20 hospitals on June 19, 2014, urging them to cut their relationships with HealthFair. Public Citizen said that HealthFair’s “heavily promoted, community-wide cardiovascular health screening programs are unethical and are much more likely to do harm than good,” and cited peer-reviewed evidence in support of their claims. For example, the American College of Cardiology Foundation and the American Heart Association recommend against echocardiograms in asymptomatic adults without hypertension.\n\nIn response, Terry Diaz, HealthFair's Chief Operating Officer, wrote, “Public Citizen is an organization dedicated to the creation of a single-payer system of healthcare called ‘Medicare for All’ which would be run and controlled by the government. This is strikingly opposite to our mission of helping make healthcare consumer-driven, a private choice between a patient and his/her physician, free from government intervention. Our goal is to educate and empower the consumer to decide what is best for them.”\n\n"}
{"id": "36296968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36296968", "title": "Hearing Health Foundation", "text": "Hearing Health Foundation\n\nHearing Health Foundation (HHF) is a 501c3 nonprofit organization whose mission is to prevent and cure hearing loss and tinnitus through groundbreaking research, and promote hearing health. In 2011, the Deafness Research Foundation changed its name to Hearing Health Foundation.\n\nHHF was founded as the Deafness Research Foundation in 1958, by Collette Ramsey Baker, a woman who lived with a substantial hearing loss. Since then, HHF has worked to provide funding for basic, clinical and translational research in hearing and balance science, and worked towards research and treatments for people with hearing loss, tinnitus, and other hearing conditions. This includes funding research that led to the development of cochlear implants and treatments for otosclerosis (abnormal bone growth in the ear) and ear infections. In the 1990s HHF advocated in Washington, D.C., for universal neonatal hearing screening legislation, to detect hearing loss at birth.\n\nThe primary aims of the foundation are to promote awareness of hearing health and the prevention of noise induced hearing loss, provide seed money to researchers focused on hearing and balance science through grants, and to find better therapies and cures for hearing loss and tinnitus through the Hearing Restoration Project (HRP) and Emerging Research Grants (ERG) programs.\n\nThe Deafness Research Foundation was founded by Collette Ramsey-Baker on February 1, 1958. Born in Waverly, Tennessee, Collette lived with substantial hearing loss for many years before she had her hearing completely restored at age 35, with an early fenestration operation. She then founded the Deafness Research Foundation (DRF). A recurrent model for the renowned painter Howard Chandler Christy and an avid golfer, she received letters of commendation from US Presidents Herbert Hoover and Dwight Eisenhower, Helen Keller and Cardinal Francis Spellman.\n\nIn 1960, DRF and the American Academy of Otolaryngology created the National Temporal Bone Banks Program, to collect and study the human temporal bone, and to encourage temporal bone donation. In 1992 the NIDCD National Temporal Bone, Hearing and Balance Pathology Resource Registry was founded as a nonprofit organization by the National Institute of Deafness and other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) of the National Institutes of Health to continue and expand on the activities of the former National Temporal Bone Banks Program.\n\nBy 1972, the DRF was funding research on cochlear implants, with later grants in single channel to multi-channel implants, speech perception among cochlear implant users, and implants in children. Substantial research and significant contribution in the prevention and treatment of middle ear infection was made by researchers who were awarded grants. In 1977 the DRF funded research in outer ear hair cell motility that led to a new method for measuring the health of a newborn's ear, and began funding research to understand how sensory cells transmit sounds from the world to the brain.\n\nThe DRF funded research led, in 1987, to the discovery of spontaneous regeneration of hair cells in chickens, thus igniting the field of hair cell regeneration in humans. Research on the regrowth of cochlea cells may lead to medical treatments that restore hearing. Unlike birds and reptiles, humans and other mammals are normally unable to regrow the cells of the inner ear that convert sound into neural signals when those cells are damaged by age or disease.\n\nIn 1989 the DRF funded Meniere's Disease Study Center for improved evaluation and better treatments of Ménière's disease.\n\nIn celebration of the 50th Anniversary, the DRF rang the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange in 2008.\n\nThe organization decided to change its name from The Deafness Research Foundation to Hearing Health Foundation to better communicate the foundation's mission to prevent and cure hearing loss and tinnitus through groundbreaking research, and promote hearing health. On September 14, 2011 the Chair of the Board, Clifford P. Tallman, Jr., announced the name change of the DRF to Hearing Health Foundation and presented a new research consortium, the Hearing Restoration Project.\n\nThrough its Emerging Research Grants (ERG), HHF provides seed money to researchers, particularly those whose work is focused on areas of otology that have been under-researched and under-represented through traditional funding mechanisms. Through ERG, HHF has awarded over millions of dollars through more than 2,200 scientific research grants to researchers.\n\nMany of HHF's grantees have also received federal grants. Former grantees make up 20 percent of recipients of the Association for Research in Otolaryngology Award of Merit. Many researchers we funded go on to obtain National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding for their work.\n\nHearing Health Foundation supports research in the following areas:\n\nThe Hearing Restoration Project is a consortium of 14-senior scientists working collaboratively on scientific research towards inner ear hair cell regeneration and accelerate the time frame for developing a cure for hearing loss. The HRP brings together researchers from Harvard University, Stanford University, the University of Washington and elsewhere with the goal of researching and developing a genuine cure for most forms of acquired hearing loss by regenerating the inner ear hair cells that enable hearing.\n\n\n\n\nHearing Health Foundation publishes the \"Hearing Health\" magazine, Hearing Health E-News, and a weekly blog to supply information about current research and technologies related to hearing loss, tinnitus, and other hearing conditions, as well as provides general information about the Foundation's work, education, and prevention efforts.\n\nIn 2011 Hearing Health Foundation demonstrated how sound travels and educated approximately 18,000 children at Nickelodeon's \"Day of Play\" at the Mall in Washington, DC.\n\n"}
{"id": "56378847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56378847", "title": "Hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode", "text": "Hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode\n\nA hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode (HHE) is defined as sudden onset of poor muscle tone, reduced consciousness, and pale or bluish skin occurring within 48 hours after vaccination, most commonly pertussis vaccination. An HHE is estimated to occur after 1 in 4,762 to 1 in 1,408 doses of whole cell pertussis vaccine, and after 1 in 14,286 to 1 in 2,778 doses of acellular pertussis vaccine.\n"}
{"id": "1616138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616138", "title": "International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use", "text": "International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use\n\nThe International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) is a project that brings together the regulatory authorities of Europe, Japan and the United States and experts from the pharmaceutical industry in the three regions to discuss scientific and technical aspects of pharmaceutical product registration.\n\nThe purpose of ICH is to reduce or eliminate the need to duplicate the testing carried out during the research and development of new medicines by recommending ways to achieve greater harmonisation in the interpretation and application of technical guidelines and requirements for product registration. Harmonisation would lead to a more economical use of human, non-human animal and material resources, and the elimination of unnecessary delay in the global development and availability of new medicines while maintaining safeguards on quality, safety, and efficacy, and regulatory obligations to protect public health.\n\nICH guidelines have been adopted as law in several countries, but are only used as guidance for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.\n\nIn the 1980s, what is today the European Union began harmonising regulatory requirements. In 1989, Europe, Japan, and the United States began creating plans for harmonisation; International Council of Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) was created in April 1990 at a meeting in Brussels.\n\nIn 2015, International Conference on Harmonisation changed its name to the International Council for Harmonisation while becoming a legal entity in Switzerland. On 23 October 2015 ICH conducted the initial meeting of their new assembly.\n\nThe ICH has four major parts:\n\nThe Steering Committee, made of six ICH Parties, governs the ICH, determining the policies and procedures, selecting topics for harmonisation and monitoring progress of harmonisation initiatives. The ICH consists of:\n\nThe ICH Coordinators represents each ICH Party to the ICH Secretariat on a day-to-day basis.\n\nThe ICH Secretariat is primarily concerned with preparations for, and documentation of, meetings of the Steering Committee as well as coordination of preparations for Working Group (EWG (Expert Working Group), IWG (Implementation Working Group), Informal WG) and Discussion Group meetings.\n\nThe ICH Working Groups are created by the Steering Committee when a new topic is accepted for harmonisation, and is charged with developing a harmonised guideline that meets the objectives outlined in the Concept Paper and Business Plan.\n\nFace-to-face meetings of the EWG will normally only take place during the biannual SC meetings. Interim reports are made at each meeting of the SC.\n\nIf consensus is reached the EWG will sign the \"Step 2 Experts Signoff\" sheet and submit it to the SC to request adoption.\nIf there is no agreement in the EWG within the time frame the SC may extend the time frame, suspend or abandon the harmonization project.\n\nStep 2 is reached when the SC agrees, based on the report of the EWG, that there is sufficient scientific consensus on the technical issues for the draft guideline. This text is signed off by the SC as \"Step 2 Final Document\".\n\nThe draft becomes subject of consultation in the three regions. It is published in the European Union (as draft CHMP or CVMP guideline), Japan (after translation by MHLW), and the USA (as draft guideline in the Federal Register) and everybody within these regions can comment on it. There is also an opportunity for companies, associations and authorities in non-ICH regions to comment on the draft, which is distributed by IFPMA and WHO. After obtaining all consultation results, the EWG will be resumed. A new rapporteur will be appointed from the regulatory party, preferably from the same region as the previous rapporteur. The same procedure described in Step 1 is used to address the consultation results into the \"Step 2 Final Document\". The draft document to be generated as a result of the Step 3 phase is called Step 4 Experts Document.\n\nIf industry and regulatory EWG members agree on the alterations as a result of the consultation, the Step 4 Experts Document is signed by the EWG regulatory experts only (\"Step 4 Experts Signoff\") and submitted to the SC to request adoption as Step 4 of the ICH process.\n\nStep 4 is reached when the SC agrees that there is sufficient scientific consensus on the technical issues.\nIf one industry party has strong objections to the adoption of the guideline due to deviations of the revised draft from the original consensus the regulatory parties may agree that a revised document should be submitted for further consultation. In this case, the EWG discussion may be resumed.\n\nThe Step 4 Final Document is signed off by the SC signatories for the regulatory parties of ICH as an ICH Harmonised Tripartite Guideline.\n\nThe ICH Harmonised Tripartite Guideline moves immediately to the final step of the process that is the regulatory implementation. This step is carried out according to the same national/regional procedures that apply to other regional regulatory guidelines and requirements, in the European Union, Japan, and the United States.\n\nInformation on the regulatory action taken and implementation dates are reported back to the SC and published by the ICH Secretariat on the ICH website and in the annual press statement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56776855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56776855", "title": "Jane Wadsworth (statistician)", "text": "Jane Wadsworth (statistician)\n\nJane Wadsworth (1942-1997) was a medical statistician and a pioneer in academic sexual health research. \n\nWadsworth was born in 1942 during the Second World War as the eldest of four children. Her family moved to Sevenoaks where her father established a GP practice after his demobilisation.\n\nFollowing an education at West Heath School, Jane went on to become a reader in Mathematics at St. Andrews University, Scotland. She met her husband, Michael Wadsworth, in London and the couple moved to Edinburgh where they started their young family. Following their return to London, Jane began working part-time at the Institute for Social Sciences in Medical Care. \n\nWhen her youngest child began school, Jane returned to education and completed an MSc in Medical Statistics at the London School of Hygiene. This was followed by a series of research positions in London, Bristol and Exeter before she took on the position of Lecturer in Medical Statistics at St. Marys Hospital Medical Schooin l 1983. While with the hospital Wadsworth contributed to several clinical studies, inclining a study of pelvic pain syndrome with Professor Richard Beard and the Nation Childhood Encephalophathy Study with Professor David Miller.\n\nWhen the Aids epidemic arrived, Wadsworth became involved in determining the pattern of the HIV infection throughout Britain. This was the first attempt to conduct a study about sexual behaviour in the UK and gave Jane Wadsworth the opportunity to take the leading role in initiating her own research programme for the first time. During this period, Wadsworth’s personal life became more strained, however, and her marriage broke up in the late 1980s.\n\nAfter several years of laying the foundations for sex research, Wadsworth, together with Julia Field, Anne Johnson and Kaye Wellings, embarked on a national study during which they interviewed 18,876 men and women about their sex lives. The study was filmed by Horizon for television and the women briefly found themselves in the eye of the media.\n\nIn 1994, Wadsworth and her fellow researcher published Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyle detailing the results of the survey. A version of this, Sexual Behaviour in Britain, was serialised in the Independent on Sunday. As the first of its kind, the National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyle (NATSAL) became both the gold standard and the model for subsequent studies for a number of countries the world.\n\nThe Jane Wadsworth clinic for Sexual Health of the Jefferiss wing at St. Marys Hospital, Paddington, was named for her. \n"}
{"id": "28902378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28902378", "title": "Keren – Vocational Rehabilitation Centers in Israel", "text": "Keren – Vocational Rehabilitation Centers in Israel\n\nKeren – Vocational Rehabilitation Centers in Israel is an Israeli public trust organization dedicated to vocational rehabilitation. Founded in 1964 by the Ministry of Welfare & Social Services, it hosts vocational assessment units and rehabilitation centers throughout Israel.\n\nThe Keren VRC Network consists of 14 Vocational Rehabilitation Centers, 4 Youth Vocational Rehabilitation Centers, 5 Computer Aided Training, Education and Communication (CTEC) Karten Centers and 47 supported employment and sheltered work enclaves.\n\nThe Keren is geared by the belief that every human being has an equal right to actively and fully participate in society and that work is a central feature of participation and inclusion, as well as crucial facet of a person's self-esteem and quality of life.\n\nThe Keren Works with people with physical, sensorial, emotional, mental and developmental disabilities, either from birth or of recent onset. The Keren also works with people with employment barriers, such as new immigrants, chronically unemployed individuals, single mothers and troubled or disabled youth.\n\n"}
{"id": "25839314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25839314", "title": "Limón Dam", "text": "Limón Dam\n\nThe Limón Dam, part of the Olmos Transandino Project, is an under construction multi-purpose concrete-face rock-fill embankment dam on the Huancabamba River in northwestern Peru, located to the south of Guabal. When completed, the project will help produce of electricity per year and transfer water from the Cajamarca region west to Lambayeque, near Olmos for the reclamation and irrigation of of farmland. The greatest feature and engineering challenge of the project was digging the trans-Andean tunnel as it connects the Atlantic side of the Andes (Amazon basin) with the Pacific side.\n\nThe Olmos Irrigation Project is the largest of seven irrigation projects in Peru.\n\nThe idea to divert the Huancabamba River to the fertile lands of Olmos was first envisioned in 1924. The hydroelectric component was added in the 1940s and 1950s. Preliminary feasibility studies were conducted in the 1960s by Italconsult, in 1979-1982 soviet engineers from Hydroproject prepared and approved new design Tunnel excavation had been occurring since the 1950s and through the 1970s but work was halted in the 1980s due to a lack of funding. Construction on the project began in 2006 with the dam and Brazil's Odebrecht drilling the tunnel with a tunnel boring machine (TBM). Of the tunnel's total length, is being dug with a TBM. The dam was completed in 2009 and its reservoir began to impound the river. The tunnel was completed on 20 December 2011 with a ceremony attended by Peru's President Ollanta Humala. In June 2010, H2Olmos S.A. was awarded the contract for the irrigation system and it is expected to be operational in 2013. The contract for the hydroelectric component, which is planned to consist of two power stations, was awarded to Sindicato Energético S.A. in June 2010.\n\nThe water transfer accomplished by the Limón Dam on the Huancabamba River will divert up to of water a year through the Olmos Transandino tunnel to the Olmos River Valley. The Limón Dam is a high, long embankment dam that creates a reservoir of impounding . Water diverted by the dam is transferred via the tunnel to the Olmos River where it will be used to irrigate of land. From there, water continues down the Olmos River where at two points, it will be used at hydroelectric power stations. At the base of the valley, water will settle in the Palo Verde Reservoir which will have a storage capacity of . The Palo Verde Dam will serve as a diversion dam and shift water from the reservoir to the remaining of farmland.\n\nThe project was profiled in the May 18, 2009 episode of \"\" and the March 19, 2014 episode of \"Strip the City\". It also featured in an episode of Mega Construction.\n"}
{"id": "58320528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58320528", "title": "List of hospitals in Zambia", "text": "List of hospitals in Zambia\n\nThis is a list of hospitals in Zambia. The list is not exhaustive. You can expand the list by adding referenced content as appropriate.\n\nHospitals in Zambia are divided into three main categories: (1) Specialist Hospitals (Tertiary Referral Hospitals or Third Level Hospitals) (2) General Hospitals (Provincial Hospitals or Second Level Hospitals) and (3) District Hospitals (First Level Hospitals).\n\nAs of December 2012, there were six Level 3 hospitals in Zambia.\n\n\nAs of December 2012, there were 19 Level 2 hospitals in the country.\n\nAs of December 2012, there were 84 Level 1 hospitals in the country, including the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58742475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58742475", "title": "MAGESTIC", "text": "MAGESTIC\n\nMultiplexed Accurate Genome Editing with Short, Trackable, Integrated Cellular barcodes (MAGESTIC) is a platform that builds on the CRISPR/Cas technique. It further improves CRISPR/Cas by making the gene-editing process more precise. It also increases cell survival during the editing process up to sevenfold.\n\nThe platform was made by the Joint Initiative for Metrology in Biology (JIMB) which is a coalition of Stanford University and the National Institute of Standards and Technology.\n\nGene editing is used for a variety of tasks including the modifying of crops, the modifying of bacteria, and the modifying of disease-causing genetic mutations in patients. For industrial and agricultural uses, CRISPR/Cas is more than sufficient, but for medicinal use, more precision is preferred. This is where MAGESTIC comes in. MAGESTIC achieves greater precision by using array-synthesized guide–donor oligos for the plasmid-based high-throughput editing and it also features a genomic barcode integration to prevent plasmid barcode loss (and also to enable robust phenotyping).\n\nIn essence, it allows to program the CRISPR machinery to cut at desired locations throughout the genome, and then to direct the cells to introduce designed edits at the DNA cut sites. As such, it is a very important tool for making gene therapies.\n"}
{"id": "48230956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48230956", "title": "Mental Health Week (Australia)", "text": "Mental Health Week (Australia)\n\nMental Health Week is an awareness week in Australia. It was first held in 1985 and is now an annual event. It is held in October, including 10 October, which is World Mental Health Day.\n\nThe Australian Broadcasting Corporation holds \"Mental As\", when it broadcasts various stories related to mental health issues during Mental Health Week.\n\n"}
{"id": "5865046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5865046", "title": "Motuihe Island", "text": "Motuihe Island\n\nMotuihe Island lies between Motutapu and Waiheke islands in the Hauraki Gulf of New Zealand, near Auckland. The island measures about , of which around are remnants of coastal forest. The island is a recreation reserve controlled by the Department of Conservation (DOC) and administered by the Motuihe Trust. It is a popular spot for day trips, accessible by 30-minute ferry trip from Auckland, by seaplane, or by private boat. The island is known for its beautiful beaches.\n\nThe name comes from \"Te Motu-a-Ihenga\", meaning 'Ihenga's Island' in Māori.\n\nThe small island has had a colourful human history. Starting out as a Māori settlement place, at least two pā fortification sites are known on the island. The locals are said to have grown gourds and taro. \nWilliam Fairburn purchased Motuihe in 1839 from William Jowett , Ko Nuki and Te Manago: chiefs of Te Iwi Tutu, Ngāi Tai and Ngatiwaki respectively. They paid one heifer, twenty blankets, ten axes, ten hoes, ten spades, six gowns, two red blankets, 12 dutch pipes, six iron pots and one shawl.\n\nVery soon after arrival of the Europeans in the area, farming began in the 1840s. Groves of Norfolk pines and olive trees are remnants of this time.\n\nA quarantine station was built on the western section of the island in 1873. It was first used in 1874 for scarlet fever arriving on an inbound ship and operated for almost 50 years, slowly growing in size. During the First World War, the station was used as an internment camp whose most famous prisoner was Count Felix von Luckner and his crew of the commerce raider \"SMS Seeadler\". Luckner organised an escape from the island in 1917, took over a scow and sailed to the Kermadec Islands where he was recaptured (and escaped again), though not before becoming something of an odd type of hero in the eyes of many New Zealanders, for the fact that his numerous and daring wartime escapades had killed only a single person.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II, the buildings became a naval training base, HMNZS \"Tamaki\", and a number of newer buildings were added. The base remained a navy training ground until 1963, when its functions were moved to the North Shore mainland.\n\nThe island's trust organises an active programme of pest eradication and is slowly replanting sections of the island with native trees. Rats and mice were eradicated in 1996 and rabbits in 2004. The conservation programme has reintroduced native species like the North Island saddleback (\"tieke\"). The Trust maintains a small conservation presence on the island, and usually has a number of volunteers working at the local tree nursery or in other conservation programmes.\n\nIn early 2008, rat footprints were found in a tracking tunnel (a device to check for the presence of certain animals) on the island. This set off a substantial effort by the trust and DOC to catch the rodent, which was feared to be part of a larger infestation. The Norwegian rat was eventually trapped by a special hunting dog, allowing plans to release native red-fronted parakeets (kākāriki) to continue as planned in May 2008, when 31 were brought by helicopter from Little Barrier Island, where there is a relatively large population.\n\nIn March 2009, fifteen little spotted kiwi were released on the island.\n\nIn May 2009, 350 'agents' of The Nikolai Organisation planted 22,400 native trees on Motuihe Island in just one day, which was 40% of the 2009 planting programme.\n\nIn 2017, Ricoh New Zealand employees and customers finally reached their goal of planting 20,000 trees across \"Ricoh Valley\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43627357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43627357", "title": "Ms Y", "text": "Ms Y\n\nMs Y is a woman who unsuccessfully sought to have an abortion in Ireland. She is an asylum seeker who arrived in Ireland and became suicidal after discovered she was pregnant as a result of a rape in her home country. At the time, Ireland's abortion laws limited abortion in nearly all cases. She was unable to travel to the UK for an abortion, and after a hunger strike the High Court granted an order to hydrate her against her will. After the 1992 X Case judgement, abortion should be legal in cases of suicide, and the then newly introduced Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013 allows abortion in those cases. Her baby was delivered via caesarian section, but there is ongoing controversy over whether the government handled the case appropriately.\n\nOn 28 March 2014 a foreign national, with limited English arrived in Ireland. She claimed to have been raped in her home country. She discovered she was pregnant on 4 April, when she arrived in Ireland, and she sought an abortion.\n\nOn 1 July 2014, she attempted to travel to the UK via ferry, but was arrested upon arrival for illegally entering the UK.\nShe said that she felt suicidal, and the two psychiatrists on the panel decreed that she indeed was suicidal but that her pregnancy had proceeded to the point of viability, so that she could not access lawful abortion under the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013. She then went on hunger strike. The HSE obtained a High Court order to hydrate her. The baby was delivered via caesarian section at 25 weeks gestation over the weekend of 2/3 August 2014.\n\nThis was the first case under Ireland's recently enacted law, the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013.\n\nThe case was being investigated by the HSE. Ms Y was too ill to be interviewed by the HSE. However a draft version was prepared and leaked to the media in September 2014. She initiated court action against the HSE to stop the inquiry, and the case was settled out of court with the HSE quashing the report.\n\n\nAs well as Irish national media attention (in \"The Irish Times\", the \"Irish Independent\", and the \"Irish Examiner\"), the case is being covered by international media, such as Al Jazeera's \"The Stream\", \"The Guardian\", \"The Sunday Times\", and \"The New York Times\".\n\nBy September 2015, she had been granted refugee status and has begun to sue 11 organisations.\n\nIn March 2016, she initiated a court case against the Irish State for \"alleged trespass, assault and battery; alleged negligence; and alleged reckless and intentional infliction of emotional harm and suffering\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35516488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35516488", "title": "Msizi Africa", "text": "Msizi Africa\n\nMsizi Africa is an international charitable organisation set up by Lucy Caslon in 2007. Msizi means 'helper' in Zulu. The charity, based in South London and originally named Mants'ase Children's Home UK, is registered with the UK Charity commission and provides children in Lesotho with nutritious food. Msizi Africa actively supports and closely works with a number of local projects and collaborates with Letsema, a network of service providers working with orphans and vulnerable children in Lesotho. Since October 2015, Msizi Africa Lesotho has been registered as a Lesotho registered charitable organisation.\n\nLucy Caslon first heard about Mants'ase Children's Home, an orphanage in Lesotho, in news reports of Prince Harry's visit to the home. At the end of an extensive trip through Africa in 2006 she decided to work at the orphanage as a volunteer. During this time she recognized that while the children in the home were fed, the food was not optimal in terms of nutrition and healthiness especially taking into consideration that many of the 50 children living in the home suffered from HIV/AIDS infection and other health issues. She received financial help from family and friends back in the UK which allowed her to buy fruit, vegetables, meat and fish to complement the children's normal diet of maize meals and cabbage. Realizing the positive effects of this healthier nutrition on the children's wellbeing Lucy Caslon founded the Mants'ase Children's Home UK charity after she arrived back in London. It was first set up specifically to benefit the lives of the children at the Mants'ase orphanage. Later the charity was re-branded as Msizi Africa as the support was extended to children in South Africa and Zambia.\n\nWithin three months after receiving her registration number in June 2007 Lucy Caslon was able to raise £30,000 from corporate sponsors despite running the charity in her spare time while working as PA for a large property firm. Msizi Africa grew significantly after Lucy Caslon became one of eight winners of Vodafones 2008’s World of Difference programme which allowed her to work full-time for her charity. Impressed by her success one of her corporate supporters decided to match Vodafone's scheme and continue to pay her salary for 2010 and 2011 enabling the charity in the following years to help to relieve the hardship of around thousand children in Africa, where the AIDS pandemic has left many without parents or an extended family. Besides providing food Msizi Africa also repairs the houses of children who live on their own to ensure safer living conditions for them.\n\nIn 2008 the Cape Town charity Beautiful Gate had to care for additional several hundred mothers with babies and young children due to the xenophobic attacks aimed towards foreign nationals living in South Africa which erupted in May and June of that year. Msizi Africa donated funds to feed these families for several days.\n\nMsizi Africa has in the past also supported Umthombo, a non-profit organisation based in Durban, South Africa, by providing three meals a day for hundreds of homeless children in the city.\n\nLucy Caslon attended the Christ's Hospital school from 1992 to 1999 and started organising fundraising events as a student. After graduating from Royal Holloway, University of London in 2003 with a BA in History she worked in the charity sector for three years, first in the events team at Marie Curie Cancer Care and eighteen months later as corporate fundraiser with FSID.\n\nIn 2006 she spent three months traveling East, Central and Southern Africa before volunteering for four months, from August to December, at the Mants'ase Children's Home. After her return to London in 2007 she founded a charity in order to raise money to continue the food improvement project she had started during her time in Lesotho. She spend her evenings and weekends to raise funds while working full-time for eighteen months as Team Secretary EMEA Hospitality for DTZ.\n\nBesides winning 2008 the World of Difference initiative of the Vodafone Foundation she was 2009 finalist of Clarins 'Most Dynamisante Woman of the Year' competition in 2009 and shortlisted for the \"Red\" and \"Cosmopolitan\" magazine 'Woman of the Year' awards in the same year. In 2011 Lucy Caslon was shortlisted for the Dods and Scottish Widows 'Women in Public Life Awards' in the category \"Voluntary Sector Achiever of the Year\".\nLucy Caslon shares her experiences to help other prospective founders by giving talks like for the Royal Holloway Entrepreneurs or as speaker at the Institute of Fundraising's National Convention 2012 and by writing articles. She has also published video tutorials about setting up a charity with the 'KnowHow NonProfit StudyZone', which is part of the National Council for Voluntary Organisations.\n\nCaslon was selected to carry the Olympic Torch on 23 July 2012 in Sutton on \"Croydon Road\" (A232) from the junction with \"The Manor Way\" by the Wallington County Grammar School to the beginning of \"Acre Lane\". In order to raise money for her charity she put her torch up for sale for an amount of ₤40000.00 which is needed to feed the 50 orphans of Mants'ase Children's Home for one year.\n\nAfter serving as director at her charity from June 2007 to March 2013 Caslon returned to the Marie Curie Cancer Care organisation as Senior Corporate Account Manager but remains a trustee with Msizi Africa. In April 2015 she joined the London-based charity \"emerge poverty free\" where Caslon (now Herron) headed the fundraising department. From March to June 2016 she was Head of Development with Play for Change and than worked again part-time for Msizi Africa as secretary. Since its founding, she has always worked for the charity in many capacities, supported by a Board of Trustees. \n\nLucy Herron is since October 2016, together with her husband, also a director of the shoe manufacturing company \"Sloafer Limited\".\n\nMsizi Africa concentrates its efforts to provide financial and logistic support to community based feeding programmes in villages in the Mohale's Hoek district of the Kingdom of Lesotho. In 2016 Msizi Africa Lesotho catered for 108 children in the villages Majapereng, Ha Mahase and Ha Thoriso but tries to raise money using the JustGiving crowd funding platform to expand their support to further villages as a survey of 2000 homes by the Msizi Africa Lesotho team revealed severe food shortage due to the drought in the country. In 2018 the charity supports 96 orphans in those three villages and aims to launch another feeding programme in a fourth village. On 6. June 2018 Msizi Africa announced that it has started to support a fourth village, Ha Lekhoaba, in its feeding programme. \n\nMsizi Africa also continues to support the children of the Mants'ase orphanage in Mohale’s Hoek.\n\nThe Mants'ase Children's Home was started in 1979 as home for unwanted girls by Father Patrick M. Maekane, a retired Anglican priest and founder of the Mophato oa Mants'ase Society. After the initial buildings have been built by local women the first child was admitted in February 1980. The Home is located in Qhalasi in the Mohale's Hoek district of the Kingdom of Lesotho. \nThe orphanage is the residential care facility of the Mophato oa Mants'ase Society whose patron is Queen 'Masenate Mohato Seeiso of Lesotho. It was one of the social projects visited by Prince Harry in 2004 during his first visit to the country. At a later visit in 2006 he launched there together with Prince Seeiso of Lesotho the Sentebale foundation which continues to assist the Society.\nMsizi Africa supports the children's home by providing financial help to buy food, build housing and pay for staff salary. The orphanes lived in round houses (rondavels), a typical type of building in that region, which were in a state of disrepair and Msizi Africa funded the building of a new dormitory complete with ablution blocks. Since 2014 the orphanage receives their food support from local organisations inside Lesotho.\n\nLucy Caslon was from 2010 until 2013 a member of the Board of Trustees of Mants'ase Children's Home and was its temporary manager for a short while in 2011.\n\nIn 2000 Chadd Bain returned to his native KwaZulu-Natal from the UK and started with two Zulu friends to educate and feed poor people in the rural area he had grown up in. He became involved with an orphanage called 'Nkosnathi' which he supported. In 2002 he met his later wife Kate and they started iZulu Orphan Projects (IOP), a non profit organisation which deals with orphans and widows affected by HIV and AIDS. From originally 80 orphans attending the 'Annual Orphan Christmas party', IOP supports now over 1600 children. After Chadd Bain's tragic death in a motorcycle accident in December 2009 the project was in danger of failing and Msizi Africa pledged to feed 250 of the children and became Kate Bains biggest supporter enabling her to continue with the charity. Lucy Caslon climbed Mount Kilimanjaro in September 2010 in order to raise money for that project.\n\nMsizi Africa helped to fund the feeding programme of the \"Peace Matunda\" project founded in 2005 by Unambwe Zephania Kaaya. It consists of an orphanage with 24 children and a school and Kindergarten with over 200 pupils located in the rainforest of Mount Meru in Northern Tanzania, about 15 km from the city of Arusha.\n\nMsizi Africa provided food to couples in villages surrounding the Mants'ase Children's Home who cook for local orphans and distribute food parcels. This project supports 160 children not only with food but also with school uniforms and medical care. The \"Testimony Feeding Programme\" (covering Ha Potsane, Qalakheng and Kubake) and the \"Majapereng Feeding Programme\" were located in nearby villages in the Mohale's Hoek district.\n\nThe 28 Fund was a campaign started by Msizi Africa in 2011 which aims to gain donation by direct debit accounts set up by supporters for 28 pence (or multiples of that amount) as it costs Msizi Africa 28 pence to feed one child for a day. The project was aimed at businesses as well as individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "766899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766899", "title": "Orgasmic platform", "text": "Orgasmic platform\n\nThe orgasmic platform is the tissues of the outer third of the vagina, labeled by Masters and Johnson. They swell considerably, and the pubococcygeus muscle tightens, reducing the diameter of the opening of the vagina. During orgasm, women experience rhythmic contractions of the orgasmic platform.\nThe orgasmic platform is brought about through the swelling of the bulbus vestibuli that narrows the vestibulum.\nIt is actually the narrowing and the extending of the lower 1/3 of the sheath.\n"}
{"id": "43233097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43233097", "title": "Peter M. Bentler", "text": "Peter M. Bentler\n\nPeter M. Bentler is an American psychologist, statistician, and distinguished professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nIn multivariate analysis and psychometrics, Professor Bentler is the developer of the structural equation modeling software EQS. His publications have over 190,000 citations . In 2014, he was awarded the Psychometric Society Career Award. In 2015, he was elected Fellow of the American Statistical Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "16374115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16374115", "title": "Police crisis intervention team", "text": "Police crisis intervention team\n\nA crisis intervention team (CIT) is a police mental health collaborative program. The term \"CIT\" is often used to describe both a program and a training in law enforcement around the interactions between law enforcement and those living with a mental illness.\n\nThe National Alliance on Mental Illness describes it as \"CIT (Crisis Intervention Team) programs are local initiatives designed to improve the way law enforcement and the community respond to people experiencing mental health crises. They are built on strong partnerships between law enforcement, mental health provider agencies and individuals and families affected by mental illness.\"\n\nMental health contacts and intervention by law enforcement became part of the profession with the deinstitutionalization of nonviolent mentally ill patients in the 1960s. The goal was to allow people receiving treatment in an institution to continue to receive the treatment but from community service agencies. The money saved by hospital closing was to be transferred to outpatient community programs.\n\nThe money intended for outpatient services never found its way to the community. Funding for outpatient treatment services and programs are still lacking in most areas of the United States. This left a gap for people who were in need of services. Without the assistance many people stop their treatment programs; which resulted in many people becoming unstable while living in the community, with their families who were ill equipped to be caregivers.\n\nWhen people living with the illness became psychotic or had poor quality of life in communities, the police became the go to resource for helping. Law enforcement has always been there to serve the most vulnerable in their community, which historically was viewed as victims of crime. With the lack of resources and treatment for people with mental illness they became the most vulnerable in many communities leading officers to become front line mental health workers.\nIn September 1987 Memphis, TN police responded to a 911 call involving a young man with a history of mental illness who was cutting himself with a knife and threatening suicide. When officers responded to the location they had ordered the man to drop the knife. The man became more upset and ran towards the officers with the knife still in his hand. Officers then discharged their firearms killing the man.\n\nOfficers were trained to use deadly force when they perceive their own or someone else’s life to be in grave danger. This incident was criticized because the perception on the call was the only life in danger was the man who wanted to kill himself. This occurred during a time of racial tension in Memphis and the man was African-America while both officers were white. This incident was the catalyst for the creation of the Crisis Intervention Team (CIT) in Memphis.\n\nThe Memphis Police Department joined in partnership with the Memphis Chapter of the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill (NAMI), mental health providers, and two local universities (the University of Memphis and the University of Tennessee) in organizing, training, and implementing a specialized unit. This unique and creative alliance was established for the purpose of developing a more intelligent, understandable, and safe approach to mental crisis events. This community effort was the genesis of the Memphis Police Department’s Crisis Intervention Team.\n\nThe Memphis CIT program has achieved remarkable success, in large part because it has remained a true community partnership. Today, the so-called “Memphis Model” has been adopted by more than 2000 communities in more than 40 states, and is being implemented statewide in several states, including Maine, Connecticut, Ohio, Georgia, Florida, Utah, and Kentucky.\n\nThe University of Memphis School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice CIT Center released a paper outlining central components of CIT in 2007. The elements they identified are:\n\nOngoing Elements\n\n\nOperational Elements\n\n\nSustaining Elements\n\n\nIn the state of Oregon, CIT programs were implemented after the death of James Chasse, who was beaten and repeatedly tased by three Portland police officers in 2006. Chasse, who suffered from schizophrenia, sustained 16 broken ribs, a broken shoulder and sternum, and major internal injuries. He was taken to the city jail, where the medical staff refused to admit him and ordered that he be taken to a hospital. But he died en route. The three officers were never indicted for their part in his death. Medics later testified that his broken ribs were most likely due to the emergency trauma care (CPR) he received.\n\nChasse's death prompted an outcry in the news media, in response to which Portland mayor Tom Potter instituted a CIT program. Other cities and counties in Oregon followed suit.\n\nStarting in late 2011, a group of Texas CIT officers met in Austin, Texas, to lay the foundation for Texas' first CIT Officer's Association. The association's goal is to promote mental health education as it pertains to law enforcement's interaction and care for the mentally ill. The association will also host an annual conference where stakeholders can discuss new options for better practices in the field. The Association launched its website in 2012.\n\nIn Albuquerque, NM the police department began a Crisis Intervention Team program in 1996 after 6 people were killed in crisis related police shooting between 1994 and 1996. This increase of shootings was associated with victim participate homicides or suicide by cop. Sergeant William Pettit went to visit the Memphis Police Department, who established a crisis intervention team model in 1988, to learn about their program and bring back elements from it to create a Crisis Intervention Team program within the Albuquerque Police Department.\n\nAlbuquerque was hit again with community tragedies involving law enforcement interaction with people living with a mental illness that sparked an investigation by the Department of Justice in 2014. The community voiced their concerns and the investigation by the DOJ also noted, “fatal confrontations with individuals experiencing mental health crises continue to cause significant public concern over the department’s ability and willingness to consider the safety and well-being of the individuals in distress. “ The finding letter also stated, “A significant amount of the force we reviewed was used against persons with mental illness and in crisis.” During this investigation the shooting of James Boyd occurred.\n\nThe findings letter and outcry from the community ended in a court appointed settlement agreement with the Department of Justice. The settlement agreement indicated that all officers will be trained in CIT and that 40% of field officer would receive additional specialized training in interactions with people experiencing crisis. The agreement also stated that the department’s full time crisis intervention unit be staffed with 12 full time detectives.\n\nSome cities in Canada have implemented Crisis Intervention Teams based on three models. The MCIT (Mobile Crisis Intervention Team) model pairs a police officer with a nurse and responds to calls after first-responders have rendered or as first-responders render the scene safe. The RRT (Mobile Crisis Rapid Response Team) model responds directly to calls relating to people in crisis. The COAST (Crisis Outreach And Support Team) model sends teams by appointment through a hotline and often provides social services. Cities in Canada vary on which models they choose to implement.\n\nThe Toronto Police Service MCIT has existed since the year 2000, however the unit received significant attention after the shooting death of immigrant Sammy Yatim, where a Toronto Police officer intervened aggressively against Yatim who was holding a knife aboard a streetcar. The expansion of the unit was recommended in a subsequent coroner's inquest into police shootings of suspects with edged weapons. Toronto Police MCIT teams are composed of mental health nurses from various local hospitals paired with a police officer. The team responds to calls as secondary responders.\n\nThe Hamilton Police Service is the first police service in Canada to implement all three models of crisis intervention programs. The Crisis Response Unit implements the MCIT and MCRRT models as the Mobile Rapid Response Team, while the COAST model is implemented by the COAST and Social Navigator teams. It is claimed that following the implementation of the COAST program, arrest rates for persons in crisis fell from 66% to 25% and on average, police officers saved 580 hours per year.\n\nThe Vancouver Police Department has implemented the MCIT model using Car 87 since 1978. The COAST model is implemented through both the Assertive Community Treatment Team (ACT) and the Assertive Outreach Team (AOT). The ACT is composed primarily of mental health professionals, and provides social services for patients with high-risk or long-term mental health issues. The AOT provides support to patients with mental health issues as they leave detention in hospital or jail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4310780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4310780", "title": "Population Council", "text": "Population Council\n\nThe Population Council is an international, nonprofit, non-governmental organization. The Council conducts research in biomedicine, social science, and public health and helps build research capacities in developing countries. One-third of its research relates to HIV and AIDS; while its other major program areas are in reproductive health and its relation to poverty, youth, and gender. For example, the Population Council strives to teach boys that they can be involved in contraceptive methods regardless of stereotypes that limit male responsibility in child bearing. The organization held the license for Norplant contraceptive implant, and now holds the license for Mirena intrauterine system. The Population Council also publishes the journal \"Population and Development Review\", which reports scientific research on the interrelationships between population and socioeconomic development. It also provides a forum for discussion on related issues of public policy and \"Studies in Family Planning\", which focuses on public health, social science, and biomedical research involving sexual and reproductive health, fertility, and family planning.\n\nEstablished in 1952 by John D. Rockefeller III, with important funding from the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, the Council is governed by an international board of trustees. After many years of evolving, the 2006 council board includes leaders in many different fields. These include: biomedicine, business, economic development, government, health, international finance, media studies, philanthropy, and social science.\n\nHeadquartered in New York City, the Population Council has 18 offices in Africa, Asia, and Latin America and does work in more than 60 countries. With an annual budget of around $74 million, it employs more than 500 people from 33 countries with expertise in a wide array of scientific disciplines. Roughly 55 percent are based outside the United States.\n\nJohn D. Rockefeller III convened distinguished scientists in Williamsburg, Virginia, under the auspices of the National Academy of Sciences, to begin the search for a better understanding of demographic trends. Shortly thereafter, in 1952, he established the Population Council as an independent, nonprofit organization. He serves as the Council's first president.\n\nThe Council conducts biomedical research to develop contraceptives and social science research to better understand the factors influencing access to and decision-making around contraceptives. Its research on reproductive and immunological processes serves, not only as the basis for the development of new contraceptive methods that reach out to both men and women, but also for new hormone therapies and AIDS-prevention products. The council is involved in a \"collaboration with industry partner ProMed Pharma to develop innovative new vaginal rings that may make STI prevention more acceptable and effective for women.\"\n\nIn the 1960s, the Council played a key role in documenting the large numbers of people in poor countries who lacked access to contraceptives and in conducting research to design and evaluate public family planning programs.This included bringing IUDs to India. At this time, the Council's biomedical researchers worked to develop contraceptive methods, such as the intrauterine device. The council has found that fertility is \"most sensitive to changes in the proportions married and prevalence of contraception.\" A country's ideas around reproduction out of wedlock, its accessibility, and the public's opinion of birth control are instrumental in the region's fertility.\n\nAn array of contraceptives available around the world today were developed by the Population Council, including: the Copper T Intrauterine device, Norplant, Jadelle (Norplant II), and Mirena. More than 50 million Copper T IUDs have been distributed in over 70 countries. Norplant was replaced by Jadelle.\n\nThe British medical journal \"Lancet\" said of the Population Council, \"Most non-governmental organizations claim to promote change; the Population Council actually has hard evidence of having changed the lives and expectations of hundreds of millions of people.\"\n\nThe Population Council provides programs all over the world that aim to address the prevention and treatment of the HIV virus. These programs help to develop new technologies and distribute them to marginalized populations, and also educate people about the HIV virus through workshops and mentorship services. For example, Empowering Girls and Young Women at High Risk of HIV Infection: A Capacity Strengthening Project is a project with locations in 15 different African countries that reaches girls and young women who have the highest risk of HIV transmission and provides them with resources to prevent the virus.\n\nThe Council is constantly conducting research to find high risk populations and the most cost-effective ways to get them the treatment they lack. The Council partners in a project called Link Up that is based in Bangladesh, Burundi, Ethiopia, Myanmar, and Uganda, which focuses on the population of young people ages 10 to 24 who represent a large proportion of HIV infections. The Council's research and involvement in this project helped to implement more effective strategies for improving the sexual and reproductive health of these populations.\n\nThe Council helps to alleviate the harmful effects of sexual and gender based violence by offering education to both men and women about domestic violence and provide programs to help victims. Programs like \"Opening Opportunities\" help to develop the social networks of girls who are most at risk of being involved in sexual or gender based violence, and also connects them with mentors to help them stay safe.\n\nThe research that the Population Council conducts, and the publications it releases based on that research, contributes significantly to the data that demographers and health officials require in order to promote public health. For instance, the Population Council was one of the first organizations to document statistics on HIV in Africa. The council also conducted the first study in India to assess the HIV risks that injecting drug users face. Their persistent efforts help to provide information about and combat public health disparities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25753228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25753228", "title": "Public distribution system", "text": "Public distribution system\n\nIndian food security system, established by the Government of India under Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution is to distribute subsidized food and non-food items to India's poor. This scheme was first launched in February 1944, during the Second World War and was launched in the current form in June 1947. Major commodities distributed include staple food grains, such as wheat, rice, sugar and kerosene, through a network of fair price shops (also known as ration shops) established in several states across the country. Food Corporation of India, a Government-owned corporation, procures and maintains the PDS.\n\nIn coverage and public expenditure, it is considered to be the most important food security network. However, the food grains supplied by the ration shops are not enough to meet the consumption needs of the poor or are of inferior quality. The average level of consumption of PDS seeds in India is only 1 kg per person / month. The PDS has been criticised for its urban bias and its failure to serve the poorer sections of the population effectively. The targeted PDS is costly and gives rise to much corruption in the process of extricating the poor from those who are less needy. Today, India has the largest stock of grain in the world besides China, the government spends Rs. 750 billion ($13.6 billion) per year, almost 1 percent of GDP, yet 21% remain undernourished. Distribution of food grains to poor people throughout the country is managed by state governments. As of date there are about 500,000 Fair Price Shops (FPS) across India.\n\nThe central and state governments shared the responsibility of regulating the PDS. While the central government is responsible for procurement, storage, transportation, and bulk allocation of food grains, state governments hold the responsibility for distributing the same to the consumers through the established network of Fair Price Shops (FPSs). State governments are also responsible for operational responsibilities including allocation and identification of families below poverty line, issue of ration cards, supervision and monitoring the functioning of FPSs(Fair Price Shops).\nUnder PDS scheme, each family below the poverty line is eligible for 35 kg of rice or wheat every month, while a household above the poverty line is entitled to 15 kg of foodgrain on a monthly basis.\n\nA below poverty line card holder should be given 35 kg of food grain and the card holder above the poverty line should be given 15 kg of food grain as per the norms of PDS. However, there are concerns about the efficiency of the distribution process.\n\nA public distribution shop, also known as fair price shop (FPS), is a part of India's public system established by Government of India which distributes rations at a subsidized price to the poor.\nLocally these are known as \"ration shops\" and chiefly sell wheat, rice and sugar at a price lower than the market price called Issue Price. Other essential commodities may also be sold. To buy items one must have a \"Ration Card\". These shops are operated throughout the country by joint assistance of central and state government. The items from these shops are much cheaper but are of average quality. Ration shops are now present in most localities, villages towns and cities. India has 478,000 shops constituting the largest distribution network in the world.\n\nThe introduction of rationing in India dates back to the 1940s Bengal famine. This rationing system was revived in the wake of acute food shortage during the early 1960s, before the Green Revolution.It involves 2 types- RPDS and TPDS.\n\nThe public distribution system of India is not without its defects. With a coverage of around 40 million below-poverty-line families, a review discovered the following structural shortcomings and disturbances:\n\nSeveral schemes have augmented the number of people aided by PDS, but the number is extremely low. Poor supervision of FPS and lack of accountability have spurred middlemen who consume a good proportion of the stock meant for the poor. There is also no clarity as to which families should be included in the below the poverty line list and which are not. This results in the genuinely poor being excluded whilst the ineligible get several cards. Awareness about the presence of the PDS and FPS to poverty-stricken societies, namely the rural poor has been dismal.\n\nThe stock assigned to a single family cannot be bought in installments. This is a decisive barrier to the efficient functioning and overall success of PDS in India. Many families below the poverty line are not able to acquire ration cards either because they are seasonal migrant workers or because they live in unauthorized colonies. A lot of families also mortgage their ration cards for money. Lack of clarity in the planning and structuring of social safety and security programs in India has resulted in the creation of numerous cards for the poor. Limited information about the overall use of cards has discouraged families below the poverty line from registering for new cards and increased illegal creation of cards by such families to ensure maximum benefit for the family members.\n\nTo improve the current system of the PDS, the following suggestions are furnished for:\n\nIn aggregate, only about 42% of subsidised grains issued by the central pool reach the target group, according to a Planning Commission study released in March 2008.\n\nFood stamps given to the needy and to the underprivileged by issue of coupons, vouchers, electronic card transfer etc. they can purchase commodities at any shop or outlet. The state government would then pay back the grocery shops for the stamps said the finance minister in his budget. But the United Progressive alliance, which came to power in 2004, decided on a common minimum programme (CMP) and on the agenda was food and nutrition security. Under that the government had plans to strengthen the food security program DS.\n\nHowever, finance minister Arun Jaitley in his budget speech went contrary to the idea proposed in the CMP and proposed the idea of the food stamp scheme. He has proposed to try the scheme in few districts of India to see its viability. In the CMP the government had proposed that if it is viable it would universalise the PDS; if food stamps are introduced it would be a targeted public distribution system. A group of about 40 economists have cautioned the NAC headed by Sonia Gandhi against the food security bill as it would put an additional burden on the exchequer. They instead have advised to go ahead and experiment with food stamps and other alternative methods and pointed out the flaws in PDS. This set of economists hail from institutes like Delhi School of Economics, Indian Statistical Institute, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research, Centre for Development Studies, Harvard, MIT, Columbia, Princeton, London School of Economics, University of British Columbia, University of California and University of Warwick. In a landmark judgment, Delhi High Court has ruled that fair price shops cannot be allotted to a below poverty line card holder.\n\nAaj Tak news channel on 14 October 2013 performed a sting operation on PDS named Operation Black. It shows how the distribution reaches to mills instead of fair price shops. All the documentation via computerisation is clean.\n\nNDTV did a show which documented how the Government of Chhattisgarh's food department managed to fix its broken system so that the diversion of grain came down from about 50% in 2004-5 to about 10% in 2009-10.\n\nResearch on the PDS suggests (as these two programmes show) that the situation varies quite a lot across the country.\n\n\nThe government may have to set up a complete system for the same or would have to put this responsibility on post office, banks or such other institutions. In this process there could be leakages which are a matter of concern. There would also be a burden which would come on the poor class who has to benefit from the same of going and collecting the food stamps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2544267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2544267", "title": "Radiation burn", "text": "Radiation burn\n\nA radiation burn is damage to the skin or other biological tissue as an effect of radiation. The radiation types of greatest concern are thermal radiation, radio frequency energy, ultraviolet light and ionizing radiation.\n\nThe most common type of radiation burn is a sunburn caused by UV radiation. High exposure to X-rays during diagnostic medical imaging or radiotherapy can also result in radiation burns. As the ionizing radiation interacts with cells within the body—damaging them—the body responds to this damage, typically resulting in erythema—that is, redness around the damaged area. Radiation burns are often associated with radiation-induced cancer due to the ability of ionizing radiation to interact with and damage DNA, occasionally inducing a cell to become cancerous. Cavity magnetrons can be improperly used to create surface and internal burning. Depending on the photon energy, gamma radiation can cause very deep gamma burns, with Co internal burns are common. Beta burns tend to be shallow as beta particles are not able to penetrate deep into the person; these burns can be similar to sunburn.\n\nRadiation burns can also occur with high power radio transmitters at any frequency where the body absorbs radio frequency energy and converts it to heat. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) considers 50 watts to be the lowest power above which radio stations must evaluate emission safety. Frequencies considered especially dangerous occur where the human body can become resonant, at 35 MHz, 70 MHz, 80-100 MHz, 400 MHz, and 1 GHz. Exposure to microwaves of too high intensity can cause microwave burns.\n\nRadiation dermatitis (also known as radiodermatitis) is a skin disease associated with prolonged exposure to ionizing radiation. Radiation dermatitis occurs to some degree in most patients receiving radiation therapy, with or without chemotherapy.\n\nThere are three specific types of radiodermatitis: acute radiodermatitis, chronic radiodermatitis, and eosinophilic, polymorphic, and pruritic eruption associated with radiotherapy. Radiation therapy can also cause radiation cancer.\n\nWith interventional fluoroscopy, because of the high skin doses that can be generated in the course of the intervention, some procedures have resulted in early (less than two months after exposure) and/or late (two months or more after exposure) skin reactions, including necrosis in some cases.\n\nRadiation dermatitis, in the form of intense erythema and vesiculation of the skin, may be observed in radiation ports.\n\nAs many as 95% of patients treated with radiation therapy for cancer will experience a skin reaction. Some reactions are immediate, while others may be later (e.g., months after treatment).\n\nAcute radiodermatitis occurs when an \"erythema dose\" of ionizing radiation is given to the skin, after which visible erythema appears up to 24 hours after. Radiation dermatitis generally manifests within a few weeks after the start of radiotherapy. Acute radiodermatitis, while presenting as red patches, may sometimes also present with desquamation or blistering. Erythema may occur at a dose of 2 Gy radiation or greater.\n\nChronic radiodermatitis occurs with chronic exposure to \"sub-erythema\" doses of ionizing radiation over a prolonged period, producing varying degrees of damage to the skin and its underlying parts after a variable latent period of several months to several decades. In the distant past this type of radiation reaction occurred most frequently in radiologists and radiographers who were constantly exposed to ionizing radiation, especially before the use of x-ray filters. Restated, chronic radiodermatitis, squamous and\nbasal cell carcinomas may develop months to years after radiation exposure. Clinically, chronic radiodermatitis presents as atrophic indurated plaques, often whitish or yellowish, with telangiectasia, sometimes with hyperkeratosis.\n\nEosinophilic, polymorphic, and pruritic eruption associated with radiotherapy is a skin condition that occurs most often in women receiving cobalt radiotherapy for internal cancer.\n\nRadiation-induced erythema multiforme may occur when phenytoin is given prophylactically to neurosurgical patients who are receiving whole-brain therapy and systemic steroids.\n\nRadiation acne is a cutaneous condition characterized by comedo-like papules occurring at sites of previous exposure to therapeutic ionizing radiation, skin lesions that begin to appear as the acute phase of radiation dermatitis begins to resolve.\n\nRadiation recall reactions occur months to years after radiation treatment, a reaction that follows recent administration of a chemotherapeutic agent and occurs with the prior radiation port, characterized by features of radiation dermatitis. Restated, radiation recall dermatitis is an inflammatory skin reaction that occurs in a previously irradiated body part following drug administration. There does not appear to be a minimum dose, nor an established radiotherapy dose relationship.\n\n\"Beta burns\" are shallow surface burns, usually of skin and less often of lungs or gastrointestinal tract, caused by beta particles, typically from hot particles or dissolved radionuclides that came to direct contact with or close proximity to the body. They can appear similar to sunburn. Unlike gamma rays, beta emissions are stopped much more effectively by materials and therefore deposit all their energy in only a shallow layer of tissue, causing more intense but more localized damage. On cellular level, the changes in skin are similar to radiodermatitis.\n\nHigh doses of radiation can cause rapid browning of skin, known as \"nuclear tan\".\n\nThe dose is influenced by relatively low penetration of beta emissions through materials. The cornified keratine layer of epidermis has enough stopping power to absorb beta radiation with energies lower than 70 keV. Further protection is provided by clothing, especially shoes. The dose is further reduced by limited retention of radioactive particles on skin; a 1 millimeter particle is typically released in 2 hours, while a 50 micrometer particle usually does not adhere for more than 7 hours. Beta emissions are also severely attenuated by air; their range generally does not exceed and intensity rapidly diminishes with distance.\n\nThe eye lens seems to be the most sensitive organ to beta radiation, even in doses far below maximum permissible dose. Safety goggles are recommended to attenuate strong beta.\n\nBeta burns can occur also to plants. An example of such damage is the Red Forest, a victim of the Chernobyl accident.\n\nCareful washing of exposed body surface, removing the radioactive particles, may provide significant dose reduction. Exchanging or at least brushing off clothes also provides a degree of protection.\n\nIf the exposure to beta radiation is intense, the beta burns may first manifest in 24–48 hours by itching and/or burning sensation that last for one or two days, sometimes accompanied by hyperaemia. After 1–3 weeks burn symptoms appear; erythema, increased skin pigmentation (dark colored patches and raised areas), followed by epilation and skin lesions. Erythema occurs after 5–15 Gy, dry desquamation after 17 Gy, and bullous epidermitis after 72 Gy. Chronic radiation keratosis may develop after higher doses. Primary erythema lasting more than 72 hours is an indication of injury severe enough to cause chronic radiation dermatitis. Edema of dermal papillae, if present within 48 hours since the exposition, is followed by transepidermal necrosis. After higher doses, the malpighian layer cells die within 24 hours; lower doses may take 10–14 days to show dead cells. Inhalation of beta radioactive isotopes may cause beta burns of lungs and nasopharyngeal region, ingestion may lead to burns of gastrointestinal tract; the latter being a risk especially for grazing animals.\n\n\nLost hair begins regrowing in 9 weeks and is completely restored in about half a year.\n\nThe acute dose-dependent effects of beta radiation on skin are as follows:\nAccording to other source:\n\nAs shown, the dose thresholds for symptoms vary by source and even individually. In practice, determining the exact dose tends to be difficult.\n\nSimilar effects apply to animals, with fur acting as additional factor for both increased particle retention and partial skin shielding. Unshorn thickly wooled sheep are well protected; while the epilation threshold for sheared sheep is between 23–47 Gy (2500–5000 rep) and the threshold for normally wooled face is 47–93 Gy (5000–10000 rep), for thickly wooled (33 mm hair length) sheep it is 93–140 Gy (10000–15000 rep). To produce skin lesions comparable with contagious pustular dermatitis, the estimated dose is between 465–1395 Gy.\n\nThe effects depend on both the intensity and the energy of the radiation. Low-energy beta (sulfur-35, 170 keV) produces shallow ulcers with little damage to dermis, while cobalt-60 (310 keV), caesium-137 (550 keV), phosphorus-32 (1.71 MeV), strontium-90 (650 keV) and its daughter product yttrium-90 (2.3 MeV) damage deeper levels of the dermis and can result in chronic radiation dermatitis. Very high energies from electron beams from particle accelerators, reaching tens of megaelectronvolts, can be deeply penetrating. Conversely, megavolt-scale beams can deposit their energy deeper with less damage to the dermis; modern radiotherapy electron beam accelerators take advantage of this. At yet higher energies, above 16 MeV, the effect does not show significantly anymore, limiting the usefulness of higher energies for radiotherapy. As a convention, surface is defined as the topmost 0.5 mm of skin. High-energy beta emissions should be shielded with plastic instead of lead, as high-Z elements generate deeply penetrating gamma bremsstrahlung.\n\nThe electron energies from beta decay are not discrete but form a continuous spectrum with a cutoff at maximum energy. The rest of the energy of each decay is carried off by an antineutrino which does not significantly interact and therefore does not contribute to the dose. Most energies of beta emissions are at about a third of the maximum energy. Beta emissions have much lower energies than what is achievable from particle accelerators, no more than few megaelectronvolts.\n\nThe energy-depth-dose profile is a curve starting with a surface dose, ascending to the maximum dose in a certain depth d (usually normalized as 100% dose), then descends slowly through depths of 90% dose (d) and 80% dose (d), then falls off linearly and relatively sharply though depth of 50% dose (d). The extrapolation of this linear part of the curve to zero defines the maximum electron range, R. In practice, there is a long tail of weaker but deep dose, called \"bremsstrahlung tail\", attributable to bremsstrahlung. The penetration depth depends also on beam shape, narrower beam tend to have less penetration. In water, broad electron beams, as is the case in homogeneous surface contamination of skin, have d about E/3 cm and R about E/2 cm, where E is the beta particle energy in MeV.\n\nThe penetration depth of lower-energy beta in water (and soft tissues) is about 2 mm/MeV. For a 2.3 MeV beta the maximum depth in water is 11 mm, for 1.1 MeV it is 4.6 mm. The depth where maximum of the energy is deposited is significantly lower.\n\nThe energy and penetration depth of several isotopes is as follows:\nFor a wide beam, the depth-energy relation for dose ranges is as follows, for energies in megaelectronvolts and depths in millimeters. The dependence of surface dose and penetration depth on beam energy is clearly visible.\nRadiation burns are caused by exposure to high levels of radiation. Levels high enough to cause burn are generally lethal if received as a whole-body dose, whereas they may be treatable if received as a shallow or local dose.\n\nFluoroscopy may cause burns if performed repeatedly or for too long.\n\nSimilarly, computed tomography and traditional projectional radiography have the potential to cause radiation burns if the exposure factors and exposure time are not appropriately controlled by the operator.\n\nA study of radiation-induced skin injuries has been performed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) based on results from 1994, followed by an advisory to minimize further fluoroscopy-induced injuries. The problem of radiation injuries due to fluoroscopy has been further investigated in review articles in 2000, 2001, 2009 and 2010.\n\nBeta burns are frequently the result of exposure to radioactive fallout after nuclear explosions or nuclear accidents. Shortly after the explosion, the fission products have very high beta activity, with about two beta emissions per each gamma photon.\n\nAfter the Trinity test, the fallout caused localized burns on the backs of cattle in the area downwind. The fallout had the appearance of small flaky dust particles. The cattle showed temporary burns, bleeding, and loss of hair. Dogs were also affected; in addition to localized burns on their backs, they also had burned paws, likely from the particles lodged between their toes as hoofed animals did not show problems with feet. About 350–600 cattle were affected by superficial burns and localized temporary loss of dorsal hair; the army later bought 75 most affected cows as the discolored regrown hair lowered their market value. The cows were shipped to Los Alamos and Oak Ridge, where they were observed. They healed, now sporting large patches of white fur; some looked like being scalded.\n\nThe fallout produced by the Castle Bravo test was unexpectedly strong. A white snow-like dust, nicknamed by the scientists \"Bikini snow\" and consisting of contaminated crushed calcined coral, fell for about 12 hours upon the Rongelap Atoll, depositing a layer of up to 2 cm. Residents suffered beta burns, mostly on the backs of their necks and on their feet, and were resettled after three days. After 24–48 hours their skin was itching and burning; in a day or two the sensations subsided, to be followed after 2–3 weeks by epilation and ulcers. Darker-colored patches and raised areas appeared on their skin, blistering was uncommon. Ulcers formed dry scabs and healed. Deeper lesions, painful, weeping and ulcerated, formed on more contaminated residents; the majority healed with simple treatment. In general, the beta burns healed with some cutaneous scarring and depigmentation. Individuals who bathed and washed the fallout particles from their skin did not develop skin lesions. The fishing ship Daigo Fukuryu Maru was affected by the fallout as well; the crew suffered skin doses between 1.7–6.0 Gy, with beta burns manifesting as severe skin lesions, erythema, erosions, sometimes necrosis, and skin atrophy. 23 U.S. radar servicemen of the 28-member weather station on Rongerik were affected, experiencing discrete 1–4 mm skin lesions which healed quickly, and ridging of fingernails several months later. Sixteen crew members of the aircraft carrier USS Bairoko received beta burns and there was an increased cancer rate.\n\nDuring the Zebra test of the Operation Sandstone in 1948 three men suffered beta burns on their hands when removing sample collection filters from drones flying through the mushroom cloud; their estimated skin surface dose was 28 to 149 Gy and their disfigured hands required skin grafts. A fourth man showed weaker burns after the earlier Yoke test.\n\nThe Upshot–Knothole Harry test at the Frenchman Flat site released a large amount of fallout. A significant number of sheep died after grazing on contaminated areas. The AEC however had a policy to compensate farmers only for animals showing external beta burns, so many claims were denied. Other tests on the Nevada Test Site also caused fallout and corresponding beta burns to sheep, horses and cattle. During the Operation Upshot–Knothole, sheep as far as from the test site suffered beta burns to their backs and nostrils.\n\nDuring underground nuclear testing in Nevada, several workers developed burns and skin ulcers, in part attributed to exposure to tritium.\n\nBeta burns were a serious medical issue for some victims of the Chernobyl disaster; from 115 patients treated in Moscow, 30% had burns covering 10–50% of body surface, 11% were affected on 50–100% of skin; the massive exposure was often caused by clothes drenched with radioactive water. Some firefighters suffered beta burns of lungs and nasopharyngeal region after inhalation of massive amounts of radioactive smoke. Out of 28 deaths, 16 had skin injuries listed among the causes. The beta activity was extremely high, with beta/gamma ratio reaching 10–30 and beta energy high enough to damage basal layer of the skin, resulting in large area portals for infections, exacerbated by damage to bone marrow and weakened immune system. Some patients received skin dose of 400–500 Gy. The infections caused more than half of the acute deaths. Several died of fourth degree beta burns between 9–28 days after dose of 6–16 Gy. Seven died after dose of 4–6 Gy and third degree beta burns in 4–6 weeks. One died later from second degree beta burns and dose 1-4 Gy. The survivors have atrophied skin which is spider veined and with underlying fibrosis.\n\nThe burns may manifest at different times at different body areas. The Chernobyl liquidators burns first appeared on wrists, face, neck and feet, followed by chest and back, then by knees, hips and buttocks.\n\nIndustrial radiography sources are a common source of beta burns in workers.\n\nRadiation therapy sources can cause beta burns during exposure of the patients. The sources can be also lost and mishandled, as in the Goiânia accident, during which several people suffered external beta burns and more serious gamma burns, and several died. Numerous accidents also occur during radiotherapy due to equipment failures, operator errors, or wrong dosage.\n\nElectron beam sources and particle accelerators can be also sources of beta burns. The burns may be fairly deep and require skin grafts, tissue resection or even amputation of fingers or limbs.\n\nRadiation burns should be covered by a clean, dry dressing as soon as possible to prevent infection. Wet dressings are not recommended. The presence of combined injury (exposure to radiation plus trauma or radiation burn) increases the likelihood of generalized sepsis. This requires administration of systemic antimicrobial therapy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1021630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1021630", "title": "Sadamichi Hirasawa", "text": "Sadamichi Hirasawa\n\nOn January 26, 1948, a man calling himself an epidemiologist arrived in a branch of the Imperial Bank (Teikoku Ginkō, aka Teigin) at Shiinamachi, a suburb of Toshima, Tokyo, before closing time. He explained that he was a public health official sent by US occupation authorities who had orders to inoculate the staff against a sudden outbreak of dysentery. He gave all sixteen people present a pill and a few drops of liquid. Those present drank the liquid he gave, which was later thought to be a cyanide solution. When all were incapacitated, the robber took some money laying on the desks, which amounted to 160,000 yen (about $2,000 US at the time), but left the majority behind, leaving his motive unknown. Ten of the victims died at the scene (one was a child of an employee) and two others died while hospitalized.\n\nHirasawa was caught by the police due to the Japanese habit of exchanging business cards with personal details. There had been two other extremely similar cases of attempted and actual theft at banks via the use of poison in the weeks and months before the robbery. In all cases the poisoner, a lone male, left a business card. The poisoner used a card which was marked \"Jirō Yamaguchi\" in one of the two incidents, but it was later found that said Yamaguchi did not exist: the card was a fake. The poisoner also used a real card which was marked \"Shigeru Matsui\" (of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, Department of Disease Prevention) in another of the two incidents. The original owner of the card was found to have an alibi. Matsui told the police that he had exchanged cards with 593 people, but of these, 100 were of the type used in the poisoning incidents, of which eight remained in his possession. Matsui recorded the time and place of the business card exchange on the back of cards he received so the police set out to trace the remaining 92 cards. 62 cards were retrieved and their receivers cleared, a further 22 were deemed to have been irrelevant to the case. One of the remaining 8 cards was received by Hirasawa. The police were led to arrest Hirasawa because\n\nHe was arrested on August 21, 1948. After police interrogation, which allegedly involved torture, Hirasawa confessed, but then recanted soon after. His later defence against his confession was based on partial insanity, alleging that he had been troubled with Korsakoff's syndrome (as a result of rabies inoculation) and so his confession was not reliable. The court, however, disagreed and Hirasawa was given the death penalty in 1950. Until 1949, a confession was solid evidence under the law, even if the police tortured a person to extract said confession. The Supreme Court of Japan upheld the death sentence in 1955. His attorneys tried to have the sentence revoked, submitting 18 pleas for retrial over the following years.\n\nHe was sentenced to death, but there was originally no conclusive evidence. In addition, although 40 employees saw the crimes, there were only two people who identified him as the criminal. Seichō Matsumoto presumed that the true culprit was a former member of Unit 731 in his books \"A story of the Teikoku Bank Incident\" in 1959 and \"The Black Fog of Japan\" in 1960. Matsumoto also suspected that \"the money of unknown origin\" came from selling pornographic drawings. Kei Kumai protested Hirasawa's conviction by his film \"The Long Death\" in 1964.\n\nSuccessive Ministers of Justice in Japan did not sign his death warrant, so the death sentence was never carried out. Even Isaji Tanaka, who on 13 October 1967 announced in front of the press that he had signed the death warrants of 23 prisoners in one go, did not sign Hirasawa's death warrant, stating that he doubted Hirasawa's guilt.\n\nThe poison was regarded as the readily obtainable potassium cyanide in Hirasawa's trial. One of the reasons given to doubt Hirasawa's guilt is because the victims' symptoms were clearly different from potassium cyanide poisoning, which is rapid. Keio University's contemporary investigation claimed that the true poison may have been acetone cyanohydrin, a military poison deliberately designed to be slow-acting, which Hirasawa could not have obtained.\n\nHirasawa remained in prison as a condemned criminal for the next 32 years. He spent his time painting and writing his autobiography .\n\nIn 1981, Makoto Endo became the leader of Hirasawa's lawyers. Besides the case, he took part in controversial trials such as that of Norio Nagayama. The defense claimed that statute of limitations for his death penalty ran out in 1985. The death penalty has a 30-year statute of limitations under the Criminal Code of Japan, and so Endo appealed for his release. However, the Japanese court refused this argument, pointing out that the statute only applies in the case if a death row inmate escapes from prison and evades capture for 30 years. Japanese courts judge that the punishment begins when the minister signs the death warrant, which had never been done. His health deteriorated in 1987. On April 30, 1987, Amnesty International petitioned the Japanese government to release him, but Hirasawa died of pneumonia in a prison hospital on May 10.\n\nEven after Hirasawa's death, his son by adoption, Takehiko Hirasawa, tried to clear his name. Takehiko was the son of one of Sadamichi's supporters; he became the painter's adopted son while in university to take up the task of getting a retrial for Sadamichi, as his relatives were reluctant to pursue the case due to social prejudice. Takehiko also worked to recover several of Sadamichi's lost paintings and held exhibitions of his work. He and his lawyers submitted a 19th plea for retrial; Sadamichi's brain damage was also proved. , his lawyers had submitted new evidence to attempt to prove Hirasawa's innocence.\n\nIn September 2013, Takehiko Hirasawa died alone at his home in Suginami Ward, Tokyo, aged 54; he had lived there with his natural mother until her death at age 83 the previous December. His body was only found on 16 October by several retrial supporters who had worried about not hearing from him in some time. According to supporters, the pressures and uncertainties surrounding the reopening of the case, together with his mother's death, had caused Takehiko to periodically display signs of instability and doubts about whether he could continue. He continued to persist with his objective of getting a posthumous retrial, though, writing after his mother's death on a website about the \"Teijin Incident\":\n\n\"It was her wish and mine and my late father’s to mark in history that Sadamichi Hirasawa is innocent. I will continue this struggle for years to come.”\nAt the time of Takehiko's death, he and his lawyers had assembled a team of psychologists to reexamine the witness accounts and investigation process from the trial, to determine if the evidence was credible by present standards. They had been scheduled to submit their position papers to the Tokyo High Court by the end of 2013, ahead of the court verdict on the retrial petition.\n\nOn 4 December 2013, the Tokyo High Court announced it would drop the plea for a posthumous retrial for Sadamichi Hirasawa following his adopted son's death. As a result, the court effectively declared the case closed, unless other members of the Hirasawa family wish to pursue a retrial.\n\nBased on the Hirasawa case is a 2009 novel, entitled \"Occupied City\", by English author David Peace, who was long a resident in Japan. The case is also referenced in Ian Fleming's 11th James Bond novel, \"You Only Live Twice\" (1964), though embellished and exaggerated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56939180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56939180", "title": "Soemmering ring", "text": "Soemmering ring\n\nSoemmering ring is an annular swelling of the periphery of the lens capsule. In 1928, Samuel Sömmerring observed posterior capsule opacification and then described Soemmering's ring as deposits of retained equatorial lens epithelial cells which continue to proliferate and form new cortical fibers which eventually form a ring of cortical fibers between the posterior capsule and the edges of the anterior capsule remnant.\n"}
{"id": "21109397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21109397", "title": "Source Water Protection Terms of Reference", "text": "Source Water Protection Terms of Reference\n\nThe Source Water Protection Terms of Reference is the workplan for completing the source protection plan under the \"Clean Water Act, 2006\" in Ontario, Canada. The Terms of Reference is the first of three steps in the process; it lays out who does what, when it will happen and how much it will cost. It will guide the Source Protection Committee through the completion of the Assessment Report and the Source Protection Plan. The Terms of Reference is a work plan and budget that identifies:\n\nThe drinking water systems being included in the source protection planning process;\n\n- A list of technical studies and tasks required to identify vulnerable areas and risks to drinking water within these areas (Assessment Report)\n\n- A list of tasks required to develop land use planning policies, risk reduction strategies and monitoring activities to address risks to drinking water in vulnerable areas (Source Protection Plan)\n\n- A list of matters affecting neighbouring watersheds that need to be worked on together;\n\n- Who will coordinate the technical and planning tasks (municipalities, conservation authority staff or a partnership between the two); and\n\n- Cost estimates and a schedule for completing all required tasks.\n\n"}
{"id": "42641796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42641796", "title": "Surgeons of Hope", "text": "Surgeons of Hope\n\nSurgeons of Hope' (SOH), is a New York City, NY based non-profit established in 2001. It aims to provide every infant and child with a damaged heart an equal opportunity to receive life-saving surgery.\n\nMotto: \"It's not only what we bring. It's what we leave behind.\" \n\n\nSurgeons of Hope began its life-saving work with pilot programs in Cambodia, Mozambique, Senegal, and Afghanistan. In 2008, it shifted focus to efforts in Latin America. Surgeons of Hope established a program in Nicaragua, the second poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. Since 2008, it has constructed an advanced cardiac center, provided training to local medical teams, treated hundreds of children, and has more successful programs in Costa Rica and Peru, and most recently Panama and Paraguay, where we began our assessment missions to provide access to care for those who may not be able to travel, afford, or find life saving cardiac centers. \n\nThe burden of cardiovascular disease (CVDs), a group of disorders of the heart and blood vessels, on our global society is immense. It is the number one cause of death globally. An estimated 17.5 million people died from CVDs in 2015, representing 31% of all global deaths, with over 80% of CVD deaths taking place in low-and middle-income countries. People in low-and middle-income countries often do not have the benefit of integrated primary health care programs for early detection and treatment of people with risk factors. They also have less access to effective and equitable health care services, which respond to their needs. As a result, many are detected late in the course of the disease and die younger. The poorest populations are affected most.\n\nSOH’s approach and solution is through: 1) CURE 2) CULTIVATE and 3) CONSTRUCT\n\n1. Cure: In order to immediately help children with heart defects, Surgeons of Hope organizes and deploys volunteer medical teams, originating from a number of international and national academic hospitals. Each medical mission is designed to meet the goals and needs of partner communities.\n\n2. Cultivate: \n3. Construct: Most developing countries lack the medical facilities to support basic health care, much less complex procedures like cardiac surgery. Access to a technologically-advanced facility is a critical component of the effort to provide equitable access to pediatric heart surgery. With the aid of partner organizations, Surgeons of Hope constructs and equips medical facilities in communities in need.\n\n\nSOH started working in Nicaragua with La Mascota Hospital in Managua in 2008. Nicaragua is a lower middle income country with a GDP of $10.51 billion in 2012. There are 14 health projects monitored by the World Bank in Nicaragua; 3 dealing with Hurricane Felix reconstruction, 3 dealing with healthcare modernization, 2 dealing with community health, and only 1 focusing on children. According to the WHO about 25% of Nicaragua’s entire population die from Cardio Vascular Disease(CVD).\n\nIn 2011, SOH began constructing a pediatric heart facility in Managua in conjunction with the Ministry of Health. The facility officially opened in July 2013. As of 2016, just three years after opening, this local program completes four operations per week in complete autonomy. In addition to treating children, the missions serve as a collaborative teaching source within the community.\n\nThousands of children and babies are waiting for our medical professionals to arrive and give them a chance at childhood. This past year (2017), our talented volunteers performed an astounding 19,210 outpatient consultations and 447 complex and delicate surgeries on babies and children, mending tiny hearts and giving families joy on every mission.\n\nSurgeons of Hope’s first mission to Costa Rica took place in February 2016. The foundation was invited to travel to San José to enhance an existing surgical program at the Hospital Nacional De Ninos (National Children’s Hospital). The goal of the mission was to perform 10 open-heart surgeries on infants and children with congenital heart defects and to provide coaching on complex procedures for the resident medical staff. Twelve volunteers led by Dr. Chai, Pediatric Cardiac Surgeon at New York Presbyterian Hospital, made up this team.\n"}
{"id": "1520683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1520683", "title": "Susan Deacon", "text": "Susan Deacon\n\nSusan Catherine Deacon (born 2 February 1964, Musselburgh) is a Scottish public figure who has held leadership roles across the private, public and third sectors, and in academia and national politics.\n\nShe was Labour MSP for Edinburgh East & Musselburgh from 1999–2007 and served as Scotland’s first Cabinet Minister for Health and Community Care following the creation of the Scottish Parliament in 1999. She was Assistant Principal External Relations at the University of Edinburgh from 2012-2018 and has been a non-executive director of several companies. She was the first female Chair of the Institute of Directors from 2015-18 and was appointed Chair of the Scottish Police Authority on 4 December 2017.\n\nDeacon attended Musselburgh Grammar School, where she was head girl and active in inter-schools debating. She studied at the University of Edinburgh, graduating with an MA (Hons) in Social Policy and Politics in 1987 and later an MBA in 1992. She was vice president of Edinburgh University Students' Association, and chair of Scottish Labour Students.\n\nDeacon's early career was in local government where she worked for seven years in research and management roles. After a spell in management consultancy and training in the private sector, she became director of MBA programmes at the Edinburgh Business School, at Heriot-Watt University, which included managing Scotland's first Consortium MBA programme for companies. Deacon was involved in the creation of the Business School as a new graduate school within the university.\n\nMeanwhile, she rose through Labour ranks serving on the Scottish Labour Party's National Executive and was a founder member of the pro-devolution pressure group, Scottish Labour Action.\n\nDeacon was elected to the Scottish Parliament as MSP for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh in May 1999 and, though widely tipped for ministerial office, her appointment by First Minister Donald Dewar as Scotland’s first cabinet Minister for Health and Community Care came as a surprise to many. She had been education spokesperson in Dewar's election campaign team and had been initially rejected as a candidate by Scottish Labour's controversial vetting process, eventually becoming the only person to appeal successfully. Despite this rocky start, Deacon gained respect in the new Parliament and was regarded as one of Labour's most effective performers - and was tipped as a possible future First Minister. In 1999, she won Frontbencher of the Year in the Herald's inaugural Scottish Politician of the Year Awards, and was nominated alongside Donald Dewar and Alex Salmond for that year's Scottish Politician of the Year accolade.\n\nHenry McLeish reappointed Deacon as Health Minister when he took over as First Minister following the death of Donald Dewar in November 2000 and she continued until McLeish’s resignation in November 2001. Deacon was offered a further Cabinet position by incoming First Minister Jack McConnell in November 2001 but, by then pregnant with her second child, decided instead to leave Government and go to the backbenches.\n\nDuring her time as Health Minister, Deacon led major changes in the governance and leadership of the National Health Service in Scotland and championed reforms in child health, mental health and older people's care. She was responsible for the first Scottish Health Plan.\n\nA critic of the flagship policy of free personal care, she argued against its introduction saying future costs were unknown and may not be sustainable – a view rejected by the Scottish Parliament. She won plaudits for her strong stance against militant anti-abortion campaigners, though was criticised by the Roman Catholic Church for her position on issues such as teenage pregnancy and contraception.\n\nAs a backbench MSP, Deacon was regarded as a thoughtful and independent voice, served on several Parliamentary Committees, including Enterprise and Audit. She co-founded and chaired the Cross Party Group on Sexual Health and was involved in work on reproductive health and HIV/Aids both in the UK and abroad. The only Scottish member of the RSA UK Commission on Illegal Drugs, Communities and Public Policy, Deacon was a critic of Government drugs policy. Her opposition to the Iraq War won her support among Labour Party members and the Scottish public, but left relationships strained with parliamentary colleagues. Deacon was re-elected as an MSP in 2003, securing the largest Labour majority in Edinburgh, and had been selected to fight her Edinburgh East and Musselburgh seat again in the 2007 election but in August 2006, she announced her decision to stand down from the Scottish Parliament. Deacon said she had had enough of the ‘raw tribalism of party politics’ and that she wanted to 'move on to seek new challenges and to channel my energies in other ways.' \n\nDeacon stood down from the Scottish Parliament in 2007, later leaving the Labour Party, while continuing to be engaged in wider public policy debate as an independent commentator. She has spoken widely on strategic leadership and change, arguing for greater co-operation across political and sectoral boundaries and less reliance on 'top-down policies'.\n\nSince leaving politics, Deacon has held a portfolio of roles in higher education, business, the public and third sectors and has contributed to a range of governance and policy reviews in various areas of public life. She was Professor of Social Change at Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh from 2007-2010 and, in 2010, became an Honorary Professor in the School of Social and Political Science, at the University of Edinburgh. She was Assistant Principal External Relations at the University of Edinburgh from 2012-2018 which involved developing the university's relationships with external stakeholders and encouraging greater collaboration between academia, policymakers and business.\n\nIn 2010, Deacon was appointed by Michael Russell, MSP, Cabinet Secretary for Education and Lifelong Learning as the Scottish Government's \"Early Years Champion\". Her report, Joining the Dots, received widespread interest and is credited with influencing policy and investment in children's early years development and education.\n\nDeacon became involved with the global energy group, Iberdrola, following its acquisition of ScottishPower Ltd in 2007, serving first on the company's UK Advisory Board and then as a non-executive director and Chairman of ScottishPower Renewables Ltd. She was a non-executive director of ScottishPower Ltd from 2012-2017 and from 2009 until 2014 was a trustee of Fundación Iberdrola, the Spanish group's global educational and charitable arm.\n\nDeacon has served on a number of other boards and advisory groups, including the Traverse Theatre, Pfizer UK Foundation, the Institute of Occupational Medicine, Dewar Arts Awards Trust, and the strategic review of the National Trust for Scotland. From 2008-2012, she was founding Chairperson of the Hibernian Community Foundation – the charity set up by Hibernian Football Club and, from 2015-2018, was Chair of the Institute of Directors Scotland, the first woman to hold the position . She is a non-Executive director of Lothian Buses Ltd, Chair of the Edinburgh Festivals Forum and a Professional Fellow and Advisor with the Uniiversity of Edinburgh, and serves, in a personal capacity, as a Member of the Secretary of State for Scotland's Scottish Business Task Force. She is a fellow of the RSA and in 2017 was made a Companion of the chartered Management Institute.\n\nDeacon was appointed first female Chair of the Scottish Police Authority and took up this position on 4 December 2017.\n\nScottish Police Authority:\n\nIn 2017, the Scottish Government announced Deacon's appointment as Chair of the Scottish Police Authority, the national body charged with oversight of Police Scotland, the UK's second largest police service. The third person to hold the position since the creation of a unified police service for Scotland in 2012. Deacon's appointment was widely welcomed, coming as it did on the back of significant criticism of the body and its previous Chair. Deacon signalled a series of early changes in the Authority including a more transparent and outward facing approach and the appointment of a number of new Board members .\n\nSince becoming Chair, Deacon has presided over a number of changes in the leadership of Police Scotland. The previous Chief Constable Phil Gormley resigned in February 2017 and a number of new senior officers have since been appointed to the leadership team . It is anticipated that a new Chief Constable will be announced in August 2018.\n\nDeacon was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2017 New Year Honours for services to business, education, and public service.\n\nDeacon lives in Prestonpans, East Lothian with her husband John Boothman and their two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "41998030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41998030", "title": "Syarikat Air Melaka", "text": "Syarikat Air Melaka\n\nSyarikat Air Melaka Berhad, SAMB is a Melaka state government-linked companies which responsible for water supply services in Melaka.\n\nFormerly known as Perbadanan Air Melaka (PAM) a water supply department owned by the Melaka state government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33243727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33243727", "title": "Water privatization in Algeria", "text": "Water privatization in Algeria\n\nWater privatization in Algeria has been carried out in the country’s four largest cities – Algiers, Annaba, Constantine and Oran – in 2005-08 through management contracts. Under a management contract a private company operates a water system for a defined period on behalf of a public authority and is remunerated through a fixed fee as well as a performance-based variable fee. In all four contracts the public partner is the local utility. The local utilities are all jointly owned by the national water holding company Algerienne de l’Eau and the national sanitation holding company ONA, which are both under the authority of the Ministry of Water Resources. The Minister of Water Resources, Abdelmalek Sellal, said in late 2011 that what is fundamental to the management contracts is not so much to ensure 24-hour water supply, but to \"instill a new management culture\" that regards water \"as a commercial good that requires technological know-how and management skills\".\n\nIn other Algerian cities publicly owned and managed utilities continue to provide water and sanitation services alone without the support of private companies. The government announced that it will decide in September 2012 whether management contracts should also be introduced in Setif, Sidi Bel Abbes and Mostaghanem.\n\nThe World Bank provided technical assistance for the preparation of the privatization of the water and sanitation systems in Annaba, Constantine and Oran, all of which were awarded after competitive bidding. It has not been involved in the preparation of the privatization of Algiers, a contract that has been awarded without competitive bidding.\n\nIn November 2005 Suez Environnement of France was directly awarded a Euro 113 million, 5.5 year-management contract for Algiers. The local contractual partner, the Algiers water and sanitation utility SEAAL, was only created in April 2006. The government provides US$500m for investments during the period of the management contract. The utility has 460,000 subscribers and 4,400 employees. The objectives of the management contract are to distribute good quality water on a continuous basis, to improve bathing water quality, to rehabilitate infrastructure and to improve customer satisfaction. As of January 2009 the continuity of supply has increased from 16% to 80%, 7 beaches were opened to the public and extensive training has been conducted. In 2011 continuity reached 99%. Customer satisfaction increased from 70% in 2007 to 89% in 2010. The management contract was renewed for another five years and extended to the province of Tipaza in September 2011. \nIn November 2007 Aguas de Barcelona from Spain, itself a subsidiary of Suez, was awarded a Euro 30m, 5.5 year-management contract for the city of Oran after competitive bidding. The operator began its work in April 2008. The contractual partner is the water and sanitation utility for Oran, SEAOR.\n\nIn December 2007 Gelsenwasser from Germany was awarded a Euro 50 million 5.5 year- management contract for the city of Annaba. The contractual partner was the water and sanitation utility for the cities of Annaba and El Tarf, SEATA. However, the investment program stalled and the government cancelled the contract in 2010. Gelsenwasser blamed the failure on slow procurement and a lack of means, while the Algerian authorities say the firm lacked the required expertise.\n\nIn June 2008 the Société des Eaux de Marseille (SEM) of France, a subsidiary of Suez and Veolia, was awarded a Euro 28m 5.5 year-management contract for Constantine. A first bid had been unsuccessful. SEM had been the sole bidder when the contract was rebid. The contractual partner is the local water and sanitation utility SEACO. In 2010 the government said that SEM was behind schedule. According to Michel Valin, chief executive of SEACO, union disputes are a major challenge and technical issues are secondary to \"getting his growing and increasingly young team to take ownership of the company.\" \n"}
{"id": "54125110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54125110", "title": "World Happiness Council", "text": "World Happiness Council\n\nThe World Happiness Council is a think tank of politicians and researchers intended to promote happiness and subjective well-being through the identification of public policy for policy makers worldwide and the standardization of happiness as a measure to guide governments. In 2017, its formation was announced by the Prime Minister and Vice-President of the United Arab Emirates, and Ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum on 20th of March, the International Day of Happiness. In a tweet, the Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum announced the six focal areas of the council as health, education, environment, personal happiness, happy cities, and community standards for happiness. \n\nThe council issues annual Global Happiness Policy Reports during the UAE's World Government Summit. It meets twice yearly, at the World Government Summit, and at the United Nations General Assembly. It receives administrative support from the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network. Jeffrey Sachs of Columbia University is the chair of the council. \n\nFounding members of the council are Irina Bokova, Director-General of Unesco, Alexander Stubb, former Prime Minister of Finland, Richard Layard and John F. Helliwell, editors of the World Happiness Report, Ed Diener, senior scientist with the Gallup Organisation, Martin Seligman, Director of Authentic Happiness, Aisha Bin Bishr, Director General of the Smart Dubai Office, Ahmad Al Shugairi, Sonja Lyubomirsky, author of \"The How of Happiness\", Shawn Achor, author of \"The Happiness Advantage\", Martine Durand, Director of Statistics and Chief Statistician at the OECD, and Jan-Emmanuel De Neve, Professor of Economics at University of Oxford. In 2018, the committee was expanded to include Dasho Karma Ura, president of Centre for Bhutan Studies & GNH Research, Lise Kingo, CEO and Executive Director of the United Nations Global Compact, and Gus O'Donnell, former Cabinet Secretary and head of the U.K. Civil Service.\n\n\nThe UAE's National Programme for Happiness and Positivity is an initiative of the national government of the United Arab Emirates. It is headed by the Minister of the State of Happiness H. E. Sheikha Ohood bint Khalfan Al Roumi, whose position was created by UAE's Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum in 2016. \n\nThe programme has three focal areas: 1) integration of happiness into all aspects of governmental policies, programs and services, 2) promotion of happy and positive lifestyles for civil servants, citizens and residents, and 3) measuring and managing happiness through happiness indicators and tools. The Happiness Policy Manual is one such tool created to aid the integration of happiness into policy. Other officials in the program include the CEO of Happiness and Positivity in the Private Sector, who works with the Wharton School of Business, who is tasked with aiding the integration of happiness into government entities, as well as 60 Chief Happiness and Positivity Officers who work in various governmental offices. \n\nThe Minister of the State of Happiness H. E. Sheikha Ohood bint Khalfan Al Roumi convenes a Dialogue for Global Happiness, an invitation only event that is part of the World Government Summit. World Happiness Council members participate in the dialogue and their first report, the Global Happiness Policy Report 2018, was issued as part of the dialogue. Topics covered include good governance, mental illness, positive education, work and well-being, social well-being, smart cities, and national governments experience measuring happiness and well-being. \n\nThe UAE was rated the happiest country in the Arab world in 2017. The motive for the creation of a Ministry of the State of Happiness was for the UAE to be among the top five happiest countries in the world, as ranked by the World Happiness Reports. Under the leadership of Her Excellency Dr. Aisha bin Bishr, Dubai aims to become the happiest city in the world. \n"}
{"id": "11785944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11785944", "title": "Zapoy", "text": "Zapoy\n\nZapoy () is a term used in Russia and other post-Soviet states to describe alcohol abuse behavior resulting in two or more days of continuous drunkenness. In 2007, about 20% of Russian men demonstrated behaviours associated with hazardous drinking, and about 30% of working-age male deaths could be attributed (directly or indirectly) to alcohol abuse.\n\n"}
{"id": "34441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34441", "title": "Zygote", "text": "Zygote\n\nA zygote (from Greek ζυγωτός \"zygōtos\" \"joined\" or \"yoked\", from ζυγοῦν \"zygoun\" \"to join\" or \"to yoke\") is a eukaryotic cell formed by a fertilization event between two gametes. The zygote's genome is a combination of the DNA in each gamete, and contains all of the genetic information necessary to form a new individual. In multicellular organisms, the zygote is the earliest developmental stage. In single-celled organisms, the zygote can divide asexually by mitosis to produce identical offspring.\n\nOscar Hertwig and Richard Hertwig made some of the first discoveries on animal zygote formation.\n\nIn fungi, the sexual fusion of haploid cells is called karyogamy. The result of karyogamy is the formation of a diploid cell called zygote or zygospore. This cell may then enter meiosis or mitosis depending on the life cycle of the species.\n\nIn plants, the zygote may be polyploid if fertilization occurs between meiotically unreduced gametes.\n\nIn land plants, the zygote is formed within a chamber called the archegonium. In seedless plants, the archegonium is usually flask-shaped, with a long hollow neck through which the sperm cell enters. As the zygote divides and grows, it does so inside the archegonium.\n\nIn human fertilization, a released ovum (a haploid secondary oocyte with replicate chromosome copies) and a haploid sperm cell (male gamete)—combine to form a single 2n diploid cell called the zygote. Once the single sperm enters the oocyte, it completes the division of the second meiosis forming a haploid daughter with only 23 chromosomes, almost all of the cytoplasm, and the sperm in its own pronucleus. The other product of meiosis is the second polar body with only chromosomes but no ability to replicate or survive. In the fertilized daughter, DNA is then replicated in the two separate pronuclei derived from the sperm and ovum, making the zygote's chromosome number temporarily 4n diploid. After approximately 30 hours from the time of fertilization, fusion of the pronuclei and immediate mitotic division produce two 2n diploid daughter cells called blastomeres.\n\nBetween the stages of fertilization and implantation, the developing human is a \"preimplantation conceptus\". There is some dispute about whether this conceptus should no longer be referred to as an embryo, but should now be referred to as an proembryo, which is terminology that traditionally has been used to refer to plant life. Some ethicist and legal scholars make the argument that it is incorrect to call the conceptus an \"embryo\", because it will later differentiate into both intraembryonic and extraembryonic tissues, and can even split to produce multiple embryos (identical twins). Others have pointed out that so-called extraembryonic tissues are really part of the embryo's body that are no longer used after birth (much as milk teeth fall out after childhood). Further, as the process of the embryo splits to form identical twins – leaving the original tissues intact – a new embryo is generated, rendering it no different from the process of cloning an adult human. However, the National Institutes of Health has made the determination that the traditional classification of pre-implantation embryo is still correct.\n\nAfter fertilization, the conceptus travels down the oviduct towards the uterus while continuing to divide mitotically without actually increasing in size, in a process called cleavage. After four divisions, the conceptus consists of 16 blastomeres, and it is known as the morula. Through the processes of compaction, cell division, and blastulation, the conceptus takes the form of the blastocyst by the fifth day of development, just as it approaches the site of implantation. When the blastocyst hatches from the zona pellucida, it can implant in the endometrial lining of the uterus and begin the embryonic stage of development.\n\nThe human zygote has been genetically edited in experiments designed to cure inherited diseases.\n\nA \"Chlamydomonas\" zygote contains chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) from both parents; such cells are generally rare, since normally cpDNA is inherited uniparentally from the mt+ mating type parent. These rare biparental zygotes allowed mapping of chloroplast genes by recombination.\n\nIn the amoeba, reproduction occurs by cell division of the parent cell: first the nucleus of the parent divides into two and then the cell membrane also cleaves, becoming two \"daughter\" Amoebae.\n\n"}
