{"id": "52929522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52929522", "title": "2014 YX49", "text": "2014 YX49\n\nAsteroid is a temporary Trojan of Uranus, the second one ( was identified first) to be confirmed as currently trapped in such resonant state. This object may have remained as a Uranian Trojan for about 60,000 years and it can continue that way for another 80,000 years. Numerical integrations suggest that it may stay within Uranus’ co-orbital zone for nearly one million years.\n\nBesides being a Uranian Trojan, is trapped in the 7:20 mean motion resonance with Saturn as well; therefore, this minor body is currently subjected to a three-body resonance. The other known Uranian Trojan, , is also in this resonant configuration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42817414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42817414", "title": "2014 in echinoderm paleontology", "text": "2014 in echinoderm paleontology\n\nThis list of fossil echinoderms described in 2014 is a list of new taxa of echinoderms of every kind that have been described during the year 2014. The list only includes taxa at the level of genus or species.\n"}
{"id": "36157748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36157748", "title": "ARGOS (optics system)", "text": "ARGOS (optics system)\n\nAdvanced Rayleigh Guided Ground Layer Adaptive Optics System (ARGOS) is a multi-star adaptive optics system which is built for use with the Large Binocular Telescope (LBT).\nWith ARGOS, both sides of the LBT will be equipped with a multi-laser beacon system and corresponding wavefront sensors. The artificial beacons are created by Rayleigh scattering the earth´s atmosphere using high power pulsed green lasers. The purpose of ARGOS is to generate six artificial laser guide stars to correct the ground layer turbulence above the LBT mirrors. This will decrease the distortions induced by the atmospheric turbulence, and therefore the imaging and spectroscopic capability of LUCIFER, the LBT spectrograph.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3366706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3366706", "title": "Affinity (law)", "text": "Affinity (law)\n\nIn law and in cultural anthropology, affinity, as distinguished from consanguinity (blood relationship), is the kinship relationship that is created or exists between two or more people as a result of someone's marriage. It is the relationship which each party to a marriage has to the relations of the other partner to the marriage; but does not cover the marital relationship of the parties to the marriage themselves. Though laws vary considerably, affinity does not always cease with the death of one of the marriage partners through whom affinity is traced, nor with the divorce of the marriage partners. In addition to kinship by marriage, \"affinity\" can sometimes also include kinship by adoption and step relationship.\n\nUnder the law, such relatives by marriage are known as affines. More commonly, they are known as or family-in-law, as affinity is usually signified by adding to a degree of kinship.\n\nIn law, affinity may be relevant in relation to prohibitions on incestuous sexual relations and in relation to whether particular couples are prohibited from marrying. Which relationships are prohibited vary from country to country, and have varied over time. In some countries, especially in the past, the prohibited relationships were based on religious laws. (See, for example, Affinity under canon law.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1055255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1055255", "title": "Altazimuth mount", "text": "Altazimuth mount\n\nAn altazimuth or alt-azimuth mount is a simple two-axis mount for supporting and rotating an instrument about two perpendicular axes – one vertical and the other horizontal. Rotation about the vertical axis varies the azimuth (compass bearing) of the pointing direction of the instrument. Rotation about the horizontal axis varies the altitude (angle of elevation) of the pointing direction.\n\nThese mounts are used, for example, with telescopes, cameras, radio antennas, heliostat mirrors, solar panels, and guns and similar weapons.\n\nSeveral names are given to this kind of mount, including altitude-azimuth, azimuth-elevation and various abbreviations thereof. A gun turret is essentially an alt-azimuth mount for a gun, and a standard camera tripod is an alt-azimuth mount as well.\n\nWhen used as an astronomical telescope mount, the biggest advantage of an alt-azimuth mount is the simplicity of its mechanical design. The primary disadvantage is its inability to follow astronomical objects in the night sky as the Earth spins on its axis. On the other hand, an equatorial mount only needs to be rotated about a single axis, at a constant rate, to follow the rotation of the night sky (diurnal motion). Altazimuth mounts need to be rotated about both axes at variable rates, achieved via microprocessor based two-axis drive systems, to track equatorial motion. This imparts an uneven rotation to the field of view that also has to be corrected via a microprocessor based counter rotation system. On smaller telescopes an equatorial platform is sometimes used to add a third \"polar axis\" to overcome these problems, providing an hour or more of motion in the direction of right ascension to allow for astronomical tracking. The design also does not allow for the use of mechanical setting circles to locate astronomical objects although modern digital setting circles have removed this shortcoming.\n\nAnother limitation is the problem of gimbal lock at zenith pointing. When tracking at elevations close to 90°, the azimuth axis must rotate very quickly; if the altitude is exactly 90°, the speed is infinite. Thus, altazimuth telescopes, although they can point in any direction, cannot track smoothly within a \"zenith blind spot\", commonly 0.5 or 0.75 degrees from the zenith. (I.e. at elevations greater than 89.25° or 89.5°.)\n\nTypical current applications of altazimuth mounts include the following.\n\nIn the largest telescopes, the mass and cost of an equatorial mount is prohibitive and they have been superseded by computer-controlled altazimuth mounts. The simple structure of an altazimuth mount allows significant cost reductions, in spite of the additional cost associated with the more complex tracking and image-orienting mechanisms. An altazimuth mount also reduces the cost in the dome structure covering the telescope since the simplified motion of the telescope means the structure can be more compact.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11895662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11895662", "title": "Archeops", "text": "Archeops\n\nArcheops was a balloon-borne instrument dedicated to measuring the Cosmic microwave background (CMB) temperature anisotropies. The study of this radiation is essential to obtain precise information on the evolution of the Universe: density, Hubble constant, age of the Universe, etc. To achieve this goal, measurements were done with devices cooled down at 100mK temperature placed at the focus of a warm telescope. To avoid atmospheric disturbance the whole apparatus is placed on a gondola below a helium balloon that reaches 40 km altitude.\n\nArcheops has four bands in the millimeter domain (143, 217, 353 and 545 GHz) with a high angular resolution (about 15 arcminutes) in order to constrain small anisotropy scales, as well as a large sky coverage fraction (30%) in order to minimize the intrinsic cosmic variance.\n\nThe instrument was designed by adapting concepts put forward for the High Frequency Instrument of Planck surveyor (Planck-HFI) and using balloon-borne constraints.\nNamely, it consists of an open 3He-4He dilution cryostat cooling spiderweb-type bolometers at 100 mK; cold individual optics with horns at different temperature stages (0.1, 1.6, 10 K) and an off-axis Gregorian telescope.\n\nThe CMB signal is measured by the 143 and 217 GHz detectors while interstellar dust emission and atmospheric emission are monitored with the 353 (polarized) and 545 GHz detectors.\nThe whole instrument is bafﬂed so as to avoid stray radiation from the Earth and the balloon.\n\nTo cover as far as 30% of the sky, the payload was spinning mostly above the atmosphere, scanning the sky in circles with a fixed elevation of roughly 41 degrees. The gondola, at a ﬂoat altitude above 32 km, spins across the sky at a rate of 2 rpm which, combined with the Earth rotation, produces a well sampled sky at each frequency.\n\nArcheops flew for the first time in Trapani (Sicily) with four–hours integration time. Then, the upgraded instrument was launched three times from the Esrange base near Kiruna (Sweden) by the CNES during 2 consecutive Winter seasons (2001 and 2002). The last and best ﬂight on Feb. 7th, 2002 yields 12.5 hours of CMB–type data (at ceiling altitude and by night) from a 19–hours total. The balloon landed in Siberia and it was recovered (with its precious data recorded on–board) by a Franco–Russian team with –40 deg.C. weather.\n\nArcheops has linked, for the first time and before WMAP, the large angular scales (previously measured by COBE) to the first acoustic peak region.\n\nFrom its results, inflation motivated cosmologies have been reinforced with a flat Universe (total energy density Ω = 1 within 3%).\nWhen combined with complementary cosmological datasets regarding the value of Hubble's constant, Archeops gives constraints on the dark energy density and the baryonic density in very good agreement with other independent estimations based on supernovae measurements and big bang nucleosynthesis.\n\nArcheops has given the first polarized maps of the galactic dust emission with this resolution.\n"}
{"id": "21302084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21302084", "title": "Bending Science", "text": "Bending Science\n\nBending Science: How special interests corrupt public health research is a 2008 book by Thomas O. McGarity and Wendy E. Wagner, published by Harvard University Press. \"Bending Science\" explores the ways that science is manipulated in the process of making public policy and the law. It has been called a \"fascinating and troubling investigation.\" The authors present a collection of case studies, undertaken largely by industry and designed to distort the scientific process.\n\nThomas McGarity and Wendy Wagner are both University of Texas law professors.\n\n"}
{"id": "13231567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13231567", "title": "Charles A. Alluaud", "text": "Charles A. Alluaud\n\nCharles A. Alluaud (4 May 1861, Limoges – 12 December 1949, Crozant) was a French entomologist.\n\nThe Alluaud family had owned porcelain factories since the 18th century. His great grandfather had been chairman of the \"\" and his grandfather, François Alluaud (1778–1866), was a porcelain manufacturer, archaeologist, and geologist. Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot (1796–1875) taught painting to Charles and his brother Eugene.\n\nCharles left Limoges for Paris to supplement his studies but was an undisciplined pupil. The death of his parents enabled him to become an explorer. From 1887 to 1930, he went on many journeys in Africa (Ivory Coast, Madagascar, Kilimanjaro, Tunisia, Morocco, Sudan, the Sahara, Niger), the Canary Islands, Seychelles and Mascarene Islands. He assembled an important collections of insects during his voyages, later giving these to the entomology department of the '. He was the author of 165 entomological publications. He was president of the ' in 1899 and 1914. \n\nEmmanuel Drake del Castillo (1855–1904) dedicated the plant genus \"Alluaudia\" to him.\n\nA genus and three species of reptiles are named in his honor: \"Alluaudina\", \"Amphiglossos alluaudi\", \"Langaha alluaudi\", and \"Uroplatus alluaudi\". A species of ant, \"Plagiolepis alluaudi\", is also named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46788995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46788995", "title": "Charles Theodore Blachier", "text": "Charles Theodore Blachier\n\nCharles Theodore Blachier (6 February 1859, Geneva – 5 October 1915, Geneva) was a Swiss entomologist who specialised in Lepidoptera.\n\nBlachier taught Grammar.\n\nHe was a Member of the Société entomologique de France. His collections of Palearctic Lepidoptera are held by the Natural History Museum of Geneva.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53844323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53844323", "title": "Chong Long Fu", "text": "Chong Long Fu\n\nChong Long Fu from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, was awarded the status of Fellow in the American Physical Society, after they were nominated by their Division of Materials Physics in 2008, for \"outstanding contributions to the fundamental understanding of the electronic, magnetic, and structural properties of metallic and intermetallic systems based on accurate first-principles calculations and to the development of novel high temperature intermetallics and nanocluster strengthened alloys for structural\"\n"}
{"id": "39042932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39042932", "title": "Commission on Isotopic Abundances and Atomic Weights", "text": "Commission on Isotopic Abundances and Atomic Weights\n\nThe Commission on Isotopic Abundances and Atomic Weights (CIAAW) is an international scientific committee of the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) under its Division of Inorganic Chemistry. Since 1899, it is entrusted with periodic critical evaluation of atomic weights of chemical elements and other cognate data, such as the isotopic composition of elements. The biennial CIAAW Standard Atomic Weights are accepted as the authoritative source in science and appear worldwide on the periodic table wall charts.\n\nThe use of CIAAW Standard Atomic Weights is also required legally, for example, in calculation of calorific value of natural gas (ISO 6976:1995), or in gravimetric preparation of primary reference standards in gas analysis (ISO 6142:2006). In addition, the current definition of kelvin, the SI unit for thermodynamic temperature, makes direct reference to the isotopic composition of oxygen and hydrogen as recommended by CIAAW. The latest CIAAW report was published in February 2016.\n\nAlthough the atomic weight had taken on the concept of a constant of nature like the speed of light, the lack of agreement on accepted values created difficulties in trade. Quantities measured by chemical analysis were not being translated into weights in the same way by all parties and standardization became an urgent matter. With so many different values being reported, the American Chemical Society (ACS), in 1892, appointed a permanent committee to report on a standard table of atomic weights for acceptance by the Society. Clarke, who was then the chief chemist for the U.S. Geological Survey, was appointed a committee of one to provide the report. He presented the first report at the 1893 annual meeting and published it in January 1894.\n\nIn 1897, the German Society of Chemistry, following a proposal by Hermann Emil Fischer, appointed a three-person working committee to report on atomic weights. The committee consisted of Chairman Prof. Hans H. Landolt (Berlin University), Prof. Wilhelm Ostwald (University of Leipzig), and Prof. Karl Seubert (University of Hanover). This committee published its first report in 1898, in which the committee suggested the desirability of an international committee on atomic weights. On 30 March 1899 Landolt, Ostwald and Seubert issued an invitation to other national scientific organizations to appoint delegates to the International Committee on Atomic Weights. Fifty-eight members were appointed to the Great International Committee on Atomic Weights, including Frank W. Clarke. The large committee conducted its business by correspondence to Landolt which created difficulties and delays associated with correspondence among fifty-eight members. As a result, on 15 December 1899, the German committee asked the International members to select a small committee of three to four members. In 1902, Prof. Frank W. Clarke (USA), Prof. Karl Seubert (Germany), and Prof. Thomas Edward Thorpe (UK) were elected, and the International Committee on Atomic Weights published its inaugural report in 1903 under the chairmanship of Prof. Clarke.\n\nSince 1899, the Commission periodically and critically evaluates the published scientific literature and produces the Table of Standard Atomic Weights. In recent times, the Table of Standard Atomic Weights has been published biennially. Each recommended standard atomic-weight value reflects the best knowledge of evaluated, published data. In the recommendation of standard atomic weights, CIAAW generally does not attempt to estimate the average or composite isotopic composition of the Earth or of any subset of terrestrial materials. Instead, the Commission seeks to find a single value and symmetrical uncertainty that would include almost all substances likely to be encountered.\n\nMany notable decisions have been made by the Commission over its history. Some of these are highlighted below.\n\nThough Dalton proposed setting the atomic weight of hydrogen as unity in 1803, many other proposals were popular throughout the 19th century. By the end of the 19th century, two scales gained popular support: H=1 and O=16. This situation was undesired in science and in October 1899, the inaugural task of the International Commission on Atomic Weights was to decide on the international scale and the oxygen scale became the international standard. The endorsement of the oxygen scale created significant backlash in the chemistry community, and the inaugural Atomic Weights Report was thus published using both scales. This practice soon ceded and the oxygen scale remained the international standard for decades to come. Nevertheless, when the Commission joined the IUPAC in 1920, it was asked to revert to the H=1 scale, which it rejected.\n\nWith the discovery of oxygen isotopes in 1929, a situation arose where chemists based their calculations on the average atomic mass (atomic weight) of oxygen whereas physicists used the mass of the predominant isotope of oxygen, oxygen-16. This discrepancy became undesired and a unification between the chemistry and physics was necessary. In the 1957 Paris meeting the Commission put forward a proposal for a carbon-12 scale. The carbon-12 scale for atomic weights and nuclide masses was approved by IUPAP (1960) and IUPAC (1961) and it is still in use worldwide.\n\nIn the early 20th century, measurements of the atomic weight of lead showed significant variations depending on the origin of the sample. These differences were considered to be an exception attributed to lead isotopes being products of the natural radioactive decay chains of uranium. In 1930s, however, Malcolm Dole reported that the atomic weight of oxygen in air was slightly different from that in water. Soon thereafter, Alfred Nier reported natural variation in the isotopic composition of carbon. It was becoming clear that atomic weights are not constants of nature. At the Commission’s meeting in 1951, it was recognized that the isotopic-abundance variation of sulfur had a significant effect on the internationally accepted value of an atomic weight. In order to indicate the span of atomic-weight values that may apply to sulfur from different natural sources, the value ± 0.003 was attached to the atomic weight of sulfur. By 1969, the Commission had assigned uncertainties to all atomic-weight values.\n\nAt its meeting in 2009 in Vienna, the Commission decided to express the standard atomic weight of hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, and other elements in a manner that clearly indicates that the values are not constants of nature. For example, writing the standard atomic weight of hydrogen as [1.007 84, 1.008 11] shows that the atomic weight in any normal material will be greater than or equal to 1.007 84 and will be less than or equal to 1.008 11.\n\n\nThe Commission on Isotopic Abundances and Atomic Weights has undergone many name changes:\n\n\nSince its establishment, many notable chemists have been members of the Commission. Notably, eight Nobel laureates have served in the Commission: Henri Moissan (1903-1907), Wilhelm Ostwald (1906-1916), Francis William Aston, Frederick Soddy, Theodore William Richards, Niels Bohr, Otto Hahn and Marie Curie.\n\nRichards was awarded the 1914 Nobel Prize in Chemistry \"in recognition of his accurate determinations of the atomic weight of a large number of chemical elements\" while he was a member of the Commission. Likewise, Francis Aston was a member of the Commission when he was awarded the 1922 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work on isotope measurements. Incidentally, the 1925 Atomic Weights report was signed by three Nobel laureates.\n\nAmong other notable scientists who have served on the Commission were Georges Urbain (discoverer of lutetium), André-Louis Debierne (discoverer of actinium), Marguerite Perey (discoverer of francium), Georgy Flyorov (namesake of the element flerovium), Robert Whytlaw-Gray (first isolated radon), and Arne Ölander (Secretary and Member of the Nobel Committee for Chemistry).\n\nSince its establishment, the chairmen of the Commission have been:\nIn 1950, the Spanish chemist Enrique Moles became the first Secretary of the Commission when this position was created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46528307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46528307", "title": "Comparative planetary science", "text": "Comparative planetary science\n\nComparative planetary science or comparative planetology is a branch of space science and planetary science in which different natural processes and systems are studied by their effects and phenomena on and between multiple bodies. The planetary processes in question include geology, hydrology, atmospheric physics, and interactions such as impact cratering, space weathering, and magnetospheric physics in the solar wind, and possibly biology, via astrobiology.\n\nComparison of multiple bodies assists the researcher, if for no other reason than the Earth is far more accessible than any other body. Those distant bodies may then be evaluated in the context of processes already characterized on Earth. Conversely, other bodies (including extrasolar ones) may provide additional examples, edge cases, and counterexamples to earthbound processes; without a greater context, studying these phenomena in relation to Earth alone may result in low sample sizes and observational biases.\n\nThe term \"comparative planetology\" was coined by George Gamow, who reasoned that to fully understand our own planet, we must study others. Poldervaart focused on the Moon, stating \"An adequate picture of this original planet and its development to the present earth is of great significance, is in fact the ultimate goal of geology as the science leading to knowledge and understanding of earth's history.\"\n\nAll terrestrial planets (and some satellites, such as the Moon) are essentially composed of silicates wrapped around iron cores. The large outer Solar System moons and Pluto have more ice, and less rock and metal, but still undergo analogous processes.\n\nVolcanism on Earth is largely lava-based. Other terrestrial planets display volcanic features assumed to be lava-based, evaluated in the context of analogues readily studied on Earth. For example, Jupiter's moon Io displays extant volcanism, including lava flows. These flows were initially inferred to be composed mostly of various forms of molten elemental sulfur, based on analysis of imaging done by the \"Voyager\" probes. However, Earth-based infrared studies done in the 1980s and 1990s caused the consensus to shift in favor of a primarily silicate-based model, with sulfur playing a secondary role.\n\nMuch of the surface of Mars is composed of various basalts considered analogous to Hawaiian basalts, by their spectra and \"in situ\" chemical analyses (including Martian meteorites). Mercury and Earth's Moon similarly feature large areas of basalts, formed by ancient volcanic processes. Surfaces in the polar regions show polygonal morphologies, also seen on Earth.\n\nIn addition to basalt flows, Venus is home to a large number of pancake dome volcanoes created by highly viscous silica-rich lava flows. These domes lack a known Earth analogue. They do bear some morphological resemblance to terrestrial rhyolite-dacite lava domes, although the pancake domes are much flatter and uniformly round in nature.\n\nCertain regions further out in the Solar System exhibit cryovolcanism, a process not seen anywhere on earth. Cryovolcanism is studied through laboratory experiments, conceptual and numerical modeling, and by cross-comparison to other examples in the field. Examples of bodies with cryovolcanic features include comets, some asteroids and Centaurs, Mars, Europa, Enceladus, Triton, and possibly Titan, Ceres, Pluto, and Eris.\n\nThe trace dopants of Europa's ice are currently postulated to contain sulfur. This is being evaluated via a Canadian sulfate spring as an analogue, in preparation for future Europa probes.\nSmall bodies such as comets, some asteroid types, and dust grains, on the other hand, serve as counterexamples. Assumed to have experienced little or no heating, these materials may contain (or be) samples representing the early Solar System, which have since been erased from Earth or any other large body.\n\nSome extrasolar planets are covered entirely in lava oceans, and some are tidally locked planets, whose star-facing hemisphere is entirely lava.\n\nThe craters observed on the Moon were once assumed to be volcanic. Earth, by comparison, did not show a similar crater count, nor a high frequency of large meteor events, which would be expected as two nearby bodies should experience similar impact rates. Eventually this volcanism model was overturned, as numerous Earth craters (demonstrated by e. g., shatter cones, shocked quartz and other impactites, and possibly spall) were found, after having been eroded over geologic time. Craters formed by larger and larger ordnance also served as models. The Moon, on the other hand, shows no atmosphere or hydrosphere, and could thus accumulate and preserve impact craters over billions of years despite a low impact rate at any one time. In addition, more searches by more groups with better equipment highlighted the great number of asteroids, presumed to have been even more numerous in earlier Solar System periods.\n\nAs on Earth, a low crater count on other bodies indicates young surfaces. This is particularly credible if nearby regions or bodies show heavier cratering. Young surfaces, in turn, indicate atmospheric, tectonic or volcanic, or hydrological processing on large bodies and comets, or dust redistribution or a relatively recent formation on asteroids (i. e., splitting from a parent body).\n\nExamination of the cratering record on multiple bodies, at multiple areas in the Solar System, points to a Late Heavy Bombardment, which in turn gives evidence of the Solar System's early history. However, the Late Heavy Bombardment as currently proposed has some issues and is not completely accepted.\n\nOne model for Mercury's exceptionally high density compared to other terrestrial planets is the stripping off of a significant amount of crust and/or mantle from extremely heavy bombardment.\n\nAs a large body, Earth can efficiently retain its internal heat (from its initial formation plus decay of its radioisotopes) over the long timescale of the Solar System. It thus retains a molten core, and has differentiated- dense materials have sunk to the core, while light materials float to form a crust.\n\nOther bodies, by comparison, may or may not have differentiated, based on their formation history, radioisotope content, further energy input via bombardment, distance from the Sun, size, etc. Studying bodies of various sizes and distances from the Sun provides examples and places constraints on the differentiation process. Differentiation itself is evaluated indirectly, by the mineralogy of a body's surface, versus its expected bulk density and mineralogy, or via shape effects due to slight variations in gravity. Differentiation may also be measured directly, by the higher-order terms of a body's gravity field as measured by a flyby or gravitational assist, and in some cases by librations.\n\nEdge cases include Vesta and some of the larger moons, which show differentiation but are assumed to have since fully solidified. The question of whether Earth's Moon has solidified, or retains some molten layers, has not been definitively answered. Additionally, differentiation processes are expected to vary along a continuum. Bodies may be composed of lighter and heavier rocks and metals, a high water ice and volatiles content (with less mechanical strength) in cooler regions of the Solar System, or primarily ices with a low rock/metal content even farther from the Sun. This continuum is thought to record the varying chemistries of the early Solar System, with refractories surviving in warm regions, and volatiles driven outward by the young Sun.\n\nThe cores of planets are inaccessible, studied indirectly by seismometry, gravimetry, and in some cases magnetometry. However, iron and stony-iron meteorites are likely fragments from the cores of parent bodies which have partially or completely differentiated, then shattered. These meteorites are thus the only means of directly examining deep-interior materials and their processes.\n\nGas giant planets represent another form of differentiation, with multiple fluid layers by density. Some distinguish further between true gas giants, and ice giants further from the Sun.\n\nIn turn, a molten core may allow plate tectonics, of which Earth shows major features. Mars, as a smaller body than Earth, shows no current tectonic activity, nor mountain ridges from geologically recent activity. This is assumed to be due to an interior that has cooled faster than the Earth (see geomagnetism below). An edge case may be Venus, which does not appear to have extant tectonics. However, in its history, it likely has had tectonic activity but lost it. It is possible tectonic activity on Venus may still be sufficient to restart after a long era of accumulation.\n\nIo, despite having high volcanism, does not show any tectonic activity, possibly due to sulfur-based magmas with higher temperatures, or simply higher volumetric fluxes. Meanwhile, Vesta's fossae may be considered a form of tectonics, despite that body's small size and cool temperatures.\n\nEuropa is a key demonstration of outer-planet tectonics. Its surface shows movement of ice blocks or rafts, strike-slip faults, and possibly diapirs. The question of extant tectonics is far less certain, possibly having been replaced by local cryomagmatism. Ganymede and Triton may contain tectonically or cryovolcanically resurfaced areas, and Miranda's irregular terrains may be tectonic.\n\nEarthquakes are well-studied on Earth, as multiple seismometers or large arrays can be used to derive quake waveforms in multiple dimensions. The Moon is the only other body to successfully receive a seismometer array; \"marsquakes\" and the mars interior are based on simple models and Earth-derived assumptions. Venus has received negligible seismometry.\n\nGas giants may in turn show different forms of heat transfer and mixing. Furthermore, gas giants show different heat effects by size and distance to the Sun. Uranus shows a net negative heat budget to space, but the others (including Neptune, farther out) are net positive.\n\nTwo terrestrial planets (Earth and Mercury) display magnetospheres, and thus have molten metal layers. Similarly, all four gas giants have magnetospheres, which indicate layers of conductive fluids. Ganymede also shows a weak magnetosphere, taken as evidence of a subsurface layer of salt water, while the volume around Rhea shows symmetrical effects which may be rings or a magnetic phenomenon. Of these, Earth's magnetosphere is by far the most accessible, including from the surface. It is therefore the most studied, and extraterrestrial magnetospheres are examined in light of prior Earth studies.\n\nStill, differences exist between magnetospheres, pointing to areas needing further research. Jupiter's magnetosphere is stronger than the other gas giants, while Earth's is stronger than Mercury's. Mercury and Uranus have offset magnetospheres, which have no satisfactory explanation yet. Uranus' tipped axis causes its magnetotail to corkscrew behind the planet, with no known analogue. Future Uranian studies may show new magnetospheric phenomena.\n\nMars shows remnants of an earlier, planetary-scale magnetic field, with stripes as on Earth. This is taken as evidence that the planet had a molten metal core in its prior history, allowing both a magnetosphere and tectonic activity (as on Earth). Both of these have since dissipated. Earth's Moon shows localized magnetic fields, indicating some process other than a large, molten metal core. This may be the source of lunar swirls, not seen on Earth.\n\nApart from their distance to the Sun, different bodies show chemical variations indicating their formation and history. Neptune is denser than Uranus, taken as one piece of evidence that the two may have switched places in the early Solar System. Comets show both high volatile content, and grains containing refractory materials. This also indicates some mixing of materials through the Solar System when those comets formed. Mercury's inventory of materials by volatility is being used to evaluate different models for its formation and/or subsequent modification.\n\nThe various modifications of surface minerals, or space weathering, is used to evaluate meteorite and asteroid types and ages. Rocks and metals shielded by atmospheres (particularly thick ones), or other minerals, experience less weathering and fewer implantation chemistries and cosmic ray tracks. Asteroids are currently graded by their spectra, indicating surface properties and mineralogies. Some asteroids appear to have less space weathering, by various processes including a relatively recent formation date or a \"freshening\" event. As Earth's minerals are well shielded, space weathering is studied via extraterrestrial bodies, and preferably multiple examples.\n\nKuiper Belt Objects display very weathered or in some cases very fresh surfaces. As the long distances result in low spatial and spectral resolutions, KBO surface chemistries are currently evaluated via analogous moons and asteroids closer to Earth.\n\nEarth's atmosphere is far thicker than that of Mars, while far thinner than Venus'. In turn, the envelopes of gas giants are a different class entirely, and show their own gradations. Meanwhile, smaller bodies show tenuous atmospheres (\"surface-bound exospheres\"), with the exception of Titan and arguably Triton. Comets vary between negligible atmospheres in the outer solar system, and active comas millions of miles across at perihelion. Exoplanets may in turn possess atmospheric properties known and unknown in our star system.\n\nAtmospheric escape is largely a thermal process. The atmosphere a body can retain therefore varies from the warmer inner Solar System, to the cooler outer regions. Different bodies in different Solar System regions provide analogous or contrasting examples. The atmosphere of Titan is considered analogous to an early, colder Earth; the atmosphere of Pluto is considered analogous to an enormous comet.\n\nThe presence or absence of a magnetic field affects an upper atmosphere, and in turn the overall atmosphere. Impacts of solar wind particles create chemical reactions and ionic species, which may in turn affect magnetospheric phenomena. Earth serves as a counterexample to Venus and Mars, which have no planetary magnetospheres, and to Mercury, with a magnetosphere but negligible atmosphere.\n\nJupiter's moon Io creates sulfur emissions, and a feature of sulfur and some sodium around that planet. Similarly, Earth's Moon has trace sodium emissions, and a far weaker tail. Mercury also has a trace sodium atmosphere.\n\nJupiter itself is assumed to have some characteristics of extrasolar \"super Jupiters\" and brown dwarves.\n\nUranus, tipped on its side, is postulated to have seasonal effects far stronger than on Earth. Similarly, Mars is postulated to have varied its axial tilt over eons, and to a far greater extent than on Earth. This is hypothesized to have dramatically altered not only seasons but climates on Mars, for which some evidence has been observed. Venus has negligible tilt, eliminating seasons, and a slow, retrograde rotation, causing different diurnal effects than on Earth and Mars.\n\nFrom Earth, a planetwide cloud layer is the dominant feature of Venus in the visible spectrum; this is also true of Titan. Venus' cloud layer is composed of sulfur dioxide particles, while Titan's is a mixture of organics.\n\nThe gas giant planets display clouds or belts of various compositions, including ammonia and methane.\n\nVenus and Titan, and to a lesser extent Earth, are superrotators- the atmosphere turns about the planet faster than the surface beneath. While these atmospheres share physical processes, they exhibit diverse characteristics.\n\nHadley cells, first postulated and confirmed on Earth, are seen in different forms in other atmospheres. Earth has Hadley cells north and south of its equator, leading to additional cells by latitude. Mars' Hadley circulation is offset from its equator. Titan, a far smaller body, likely has one enormous cell, flipping polarity from northerly to southerly with its seasons.\n\nThe bands of Jupiter are thought to be numerous Hadley-like cells by latitude.\n\nThe large storms seen on the gas giants are considered analogous to Earth cyclones. However, this is an imperfect metaphor as expected, due to the large differences in sizes, temperature, and composition between Earth and the gas giants, and even between gas giants.\n\nPolar vortices were observed on Venus and Saturn. In turn, Earth's thinner atmosphere shows weaker polar vorticity and effects.\n\nBoth lightning and aurorae have been observed on other bodies after extensive study at Earth. Lightning has been detected on Venus, and may be a sign of active volcanism on that planet, as volcanic lightning is known on Earth. Aurorae have been observed on Jupiter and its moon Ganymede.\n\nAn understanding of the evolutionary histories and current states of the Venus and Mars climates is directly relevant for studies of the past, present and future climates of Earth.\n\nA growing number of bodies display relict or current hydrological modification. Earth, the \"ocean planet,\" is the prime example. Other bodies display lesser modifications, indicating their similarities and differences. This may be defined to include fluids other than water, such as light hydrocarbons on Titan, or possibly supercritical carbon dioxide on Mars, which do not persist in Earth conditions. Ancient lava flows in turn may be considered a form of hydrological modification, which may be confounded with other fluids. Io currently has lava calderas and lakes. Fluid modification may have occurred on bodies as small as Vesta; hydration in general has been observed.\n\nIf fluids include groundwater and vapor, the list of bodies with hydrological modification includes Earth, Mars, and Enceladus, to a lesser extent comets and some asteroids, likely Europa and Triton, and possibly Ceres, Titan, and Pluto. Venus may have had hydrology in its early history, which would since have been erased.\n\nFluid modification and mineral deposition on Mars, as observed by the MER and MSL rovers, is studied in light of Earth features and minerals. Minerals observed from orbiters and landers indicates formation in aqueous conditions; morphologies indicate fluid action and deposition.\n\nExtant Mars hydrology includes brief, seasonal flows on slopes; however, most Martian water is frozen into its polar caps and subsurface, as indicated by ground penetrating radars and pedestal craters. Antifreeze mixtures such as salts, peroxides, and perchlorates may allow fluid flow at Martian temperatures.\n\nAnalogues of Mars landforms on Earth include Siberian and Hawaiian valleys, Greenland slopes, the Columbian Plateau, and various playas. Analogues for human expeditions (e.g. geology and hydrology fieldwork) include Devon Island, Canada, Antarctica, Utah, the Euro-Mars project, and Arkaroola, South Australia.\n\nThe Moon, on the other hand, is a natural laboratory for regolith processes and weathering on anhydrous airless bodies- modification and alteration by meteoroid and micrometeoroid impacts, the implantation of solar and interstellar charged particles, radiation damage, spallation, exposure to ultraviolet radiation, and so on. Knowledge of the processes that create and modify the lunar regolith is essential to understanding the compositional and structural attributes of other airless planet and asteroid regoliths.\n\nOther possibilities include extrasolar planets completely covered by oceans, which would lack some Earthly processes.\n\nEarth, alone among terrestrial planets, possesses a large moon. This is thought to confer stability to Earth's axial tilt, and thus seasons and climates. The closest analogue is the Pluto-Charon system, though its axial tilt is completely different. Both our Moon and Charon are hypothesized to have formed via giant impacts.\n\nGiant impacts are hypothesized to account for both the tilt of Uranus, and the retrograde rotation of Venus. Giant impacts are also candidates for the Mars ocean hypothesis, and the high density of Mercury.\n\nMost giant planets (except Neptune) have retinues of moons, rings, ring shepherds, and moon Trojans analogous to mini-solar systems. These systems are postulated to have accreted from analogous gas clouds, and possibly with analogous migrations during their formation periods. The Cassini mission was defended on the grounds that Saturn system dynamics would contribute to studies of Solar System dynamics and formation.\n\nStudies of ring systems inform us of many-body dynamics. This is applicable to the asteroid and Kuiper Belts, and the early Solar System, which had more objects, dust, and gas. It is relevant to the magnetospherics of those bodies. It is also relevant to the dynamics of our galaxy and others. In turn, though the Saturnian system is readily studied (by Cassini, ground telescopes, and space telescopes), the simpler and lower mass ring systems of the other giants makes their explanations somewhat easier to fathom. The Jupiter ring system is perhaps more completely understood at present than any of the other three.\n\nAsteroid families and gaps indicate their local dynamics. They are in turn indicative of the Kuiper Belt, and its hypothesized Kuiper cliff. The Hildas and Jupiter Trojans are then relevant to the Neptune Trojans and Plutinos, Twotinos, etc.\n\nNeptune's relative lack of a moon system suggests its formation and dynamics. The migration of Triton explains the ejection or destruction of competing moons, analogous to Hot Jupiters (also in sparse systems), and the Grand Tack hypothesis of Jupiter itself, on a smaller scale.\n\nThe planets are considered to have formed by accretion of larger and larger particles, into asteroids and planetesimals, and into today's bodies. Vesta and Ceres are hypothesized to be the only surviving examples of planetesimals, and thus samples of the formative period of the Solar System.\n\nTransits of Mercury and Venus have been observed as analogues of extrasolar transits. As Mercury and Venus transits are far closer and thus appear \"deeper,\" they can be studied in far finer detail. Similarly, analogues to our asteroid and Kuiper belts have been observed around other star systems, though in far less detail.\n\nEarth is the only body known to contain life; this results in geologic and atmospheric life signatures apart from the organisms themselves. Methane observed on Mars has been postulated but cannot be definitively ascribed as a biosignature. Multiple processes of non-biological methane generation are seen on Earth as well.\n\nThe detection of biomarkers or biosignatures on other worlds is an active area of research. Although oxygen and/or ozone are generally considered strong signs of life, these too have alternate, non-biological explanations.\n\nThe Galileo mission, while performing a gravity assist flyby of Earth, treated our planet as an extraterrestrial one, in a test of life detection techniques. Conversely, the Deep Impact mission's High Resolution Imager, intended for examining comets starting from great distances, could be repurposed for exoplanet observations in its EPOXI extended mission.\n\nConversely, detection of life entails identification of those processes favoring or preventing life. This occurs primarily via study of Earth life and Earth processes, though this is in effect a sample size of one. Care must be taken to avoid observation and selection biases. Astrobiologists consider alternative chemistries for life, and study on Earth extremophile organisms that expand the potential definitions of habitable worlds.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3635601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3635601", "title": "Concepts, Techniques, and Models of Computer Programming", "text": "Concepts, Techniques, and Models of Computer Programming\n\nConcepts, Techniques, and Models of Computer Programming is a textbook published in 2004 about general computer programming concepts from MIT Press written by Université catholique de Louvain professor Peter Van Roy and Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden professor Seif Haridi.\n\nUsing a carefully selected progression of subsets of the Oz programming language, the book explains the most important programming concepts, techniques, and models (paradigms).\n\nTranslations of this book have been published in French (by , 2007), Japanese (by Shoeisha, 2007) and Polish (by Helion, 2005).\n"}
{"id": "532322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=532322", "title": "D-type asteroid", "text": "D-type asteroid\n\nD-type asteroids have a very low albedo and a featureless reddish spectrum. It has been suggested that they have a composition of organic-rich silicates, carbon and anhydrous silicates, possibly with water ice in their interiors. D-type asteroids are found in the outer asteroid belt and beyond; examples are 152 Atala, and 944 Hidalgo as well as the majority of Jupiter trojans. It has been suggested that the Tagish Lake meteorite was a fragment from a D-type asteroid, and that the Martian moon Phobos is closely related.\n\nThe Nice model suggests that D-type asteroids may have originated in the Kuiper belt. 46 D-type asteroids are known, including 3552 Don Quixote, 944 Hidalgo, 624 Hektor, and 10199 Chariklo.\n\nA list of some of the largest D-type asteroids.\n"}
{"id": "532434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=532434", "title": "Dawn (spacecraft)", "text": "Dawn (spacecraft)\n\nDawn is a retired space probe launched by NASA in September 2007 with the mission of studying two of the three known protoplanets of the asteroid belt, Vesta and Ceres. It was retired on 1 November 2018 and it is currently in an uncontrolled orbit about its second target, the dwarf planet Ceres. \"Dawn\" is the first spacecraft to orbit two extraterrestrial bodies, the first spacecraft to visit either Vesta or Ceres, and the first to visit a dwarf planet, arriving at Ceres in March 2015, a few months before \"New Horizons\" flew by Pluto in July 2015.\n\n\"Dawn\" entered Vesta's orbit on July 16, 2011, and completed a 14-month survey mission before leaving for Ceres in late 2012. It then entered Ceres' orbit on March 6, 2015. NASA considered, but decided against, a proposal to visit a third target. On October 19, 2017, NASA announced that the mission would be extended until the probe's hydrazine fuel supply was used up. On November 1, 2018, NASA announced that the Dawn spacecraft had finally exhausted all of its hydrazine fuel, thus ending its mission. The satellite is currently in an uncontrolled state about Ceres.\n\nThe \"Dawn\" mission was managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, with spacecraft components contributed by European partners from Italy, Germany, France, and the Netherlands. It was the first NASA exploratory mission to use ion propulsion, which enabled it to enter and leave the orbit of two celestial bodies. Previous multi-target missions using conventional drives, such as the \"Voyager\" program, were restricted to flybys.\n\nThe first working ion thruster in US was built by Harold R. Kaufman in 1959 at NASA's Glenn Research Center in Ohio. The thruster was similar to the general design of a gridded electrostatic ion thruster with mercury as its propellant. Suborbital tests of the engine followed during the 1960s, and in 1964 the engine was tested on a suborbital flight aboard the Space Electric Rocket Test 1 (SERT 1). It successfully operated for the planned 31 minutes before falling back to Earth. This test was followed by an orbital test, SERT-2, in 1970.\n\nDeep Space 1 (DS1), which NASA launched in 1998, demonstrated the long-duration use of a xenon-propelled ion thruster on a science mission, and validated a number of technologies, including the NSTAR electrostatic ion thruster, as well as performing a flyby of an asteroid and a comet. In addition to the ion thruster, among the other technologies validated by the DS1 was the Small Deep Space Transponder, which is used on \"Dawn\" for long-range communication.\n\n26 proposals were submitted to the Discovery Program solicitation, with budget initially targeted at 300 million USD. Three semi-finalists were downselected in January 2001 for a phase-A design study: Dawn, Kepler, and INSIDE Jupiter. In December 2001 NASA selected the Kepler and the Dawn mission for the Discovery program. Both missions were initially selected for a launch in 2006.\n\nThe status of the \"Dawn\" mission changed several times. The project was cancelled in December 2003, and then reinstated in February 2004. In October 2005, work on \"Dawn\" was placed in \"stand down\" mode, and in January 2006, the mission was discussed in the press as \"indefinitely postponed\", even though NASA had made no new announcements regarding its status. On March 2, 2006, \"Dawn\" was again cancelled by NASA.\n\nThe spacecraft's manufacturer, Orbital Sciences Corporation, appealed NASA's decision, offering to build the spacecraft at cost, forgoing any profit in order to gain experience in a new market field. NASA then put the cancellation under review, and on March 27, 2006, it was announced that the mission would not be cancelled after all. In the last week of September 2006, the \"Dawn\" mission's instrument payload integration reached full functionality. Although originally projected to cost US$373 million, cost overruns inflated the final cost of the mission to US$446 million in 2007. Christopher T. Russell was chosen to lead the \"Dawn\" mission team.\n\nThe \"Dawn\" mission was designed to study two large bodies in the asteroid belt in order to answer questions about the formation of the Solar System, as well as to test the performance of its ion thrusters in deep space. Ceres and Vesta were chosen as two contrasting protoplanets, the first one apparently \"wet\" (i.e. icy and cold) and the other \"dry\" (i.e. rocky), whose accretion was terminated by the formation of Jupiter. The two bodies provide a bridge in scientific understanding between the formation of rocky planets and the icy bodies of the Solar System, and under what conditions a rocky planet can hold water.\n\nThe International Astronomical Union (IAU) adopted a new definition of planet on August 24, 2006, which introduced the term \"dwarf planet\" for ellipsoidal worlds that were too small to qualify for planetary status by \"clearing their orbital neighborhood\" of other orbiting matter. \"Dawn\" is the first mission to study a dwarf planet, arriving at Ceres a few months before the arrival of the \"New Horizons\" probe at Pluto in July 2015.\nCeres comprises a third of the total mass of the asteroid belt. Its spectral characteristics suggest a composition similar to that of a water-rich carbonaceous chondrite. Vesta, a smaller, water-poor achondritic asteroid comprising a tenth of the mass of the asteroid belt, has experienced significant heating and differentiation. It shows signs of a metallic core, a Mars-like density and lunar-like basaltic flows.\n\nAvailable evidence indicates that both bodies formed very early in the history of the Solar System, thereby retaining a record of events and processes from the time of the formation of the terrestrial planets. Radionuclide dating of pieces of meteorites thought to come from Vesta suggests that Vesta differentiated quickly, in three million years or less. Thermal evolution studies suggest that Ceres must have formed some time later, more than three million years after the formation of CAIs (the oldest known objects of Solar System origin).\n\nMoreover, Vesta appears to be the source of many smaller objects in the Solar System. Most (but not all) V-type near-Earth asteroids, and some outer main-belt asteroids, have spectra similar to Vesta, and are thus known as \"vestoids\". Five percent of the meteoritic samples found on Earth, the howardite–eucrite–diogenite (HED) meteorites, are thought to be the result of a collision or collisions with Vesta.\n\nIt is thought that Ceres may have a differentiated interior; its oblateness appears too small for an undifferentiated body, which indicates that it consists of a rocky core overlain with an icy mantle. There is a large collection of potential samples from Vesta accessible to scientists, in the form of over 1,400 HED meteorites, giving insight into Vesta geologic history and structure. Vesta is thought to consist of a metallic iron–nickel core, an overlying rocky olivine mantle and crust.\nThe \"Dawn\" mission's goal was to characterize the conditions and processes of the Solar System's earliest eon by investigating in detail two of the largest protoplanets remaining intact since their formation. \n\nAlthough the mission has finished, the data analyses and interpretations will continue for many years. The primary question that the mission addresses is the role of size and water in determining the evolution of the planets. Ceres and Vesta are highly suitable bodies with which to address this question, as they are two of the most massive of the protoplanets. Ceres is geologically very primitive and icy, while Vesta is evolved and rocky. Their contrasting characteristics are thought to have resulted from them forming in two different regions of the early Solar System.\n\nThere are three principal scientific drivers for the mission. First, the \"Dawn\" mission can capture the earliest moments in the origin of the Solar System, granting an insight into the conditions under which these objects formed. Second, \"Dawn\" determines the nature of the building blocks from which the terrestrial planets formed, improving scientific understanding of this formation. Finally, it contrasts the formation and evolution of two small planets that followed very different evolutionary paths, allowing scientists to determine what factors control that evolution.\n\nWith its solar array in the retracted launch position, the \"Dawn\" spacecraft is long. With its solar arrays fully extended, \"Dawn\" is long. The solar arrays have a total area of . The main antenna is five feet in diameter.\n\nThe \"Dawn\" spacecraft was propelled by three xenon ion thrusters derived from NSTAR technology used by the \"Deep Space 1\" spacecraft, using one at a time. They have a specific impulse of 3,100 s and produce a thrust of 90 mN. The whole spacecraft, including the ion propulsion thrusters, was powered by a 10 kW (at 1 AU) triple-junction gallium arsenide photovoltaic solar array manufactured by Dutch Space. \"Dawn\" was allocated of xenon for its Vesta approach, and carried another to reach Ceres, out of a total capacity of of on-board propellant. With the propellant it carried, \"Dawn\" was able to perform a velocity change of more than 10 km/s over the course of its mission, far more than any previous spacecraft achieved with onboard propellant after separation from its launch rocket. However, the thrust was very gentle; it took four days at full throttle to accelerate \"Dawn\" from zero to 60 mph (96 km/h).\n\"Dawn\" is NASA's first purely exploratory mission to use ion propulsion engines. The spacecraft also has twelve 0.9 N hydrazine thrusters for attitude control (orientation), which were also used to assist in orbital insertion.\n\nThe Dawn spacecraft was able to achieve a record-breaking level of propulsion from its ion engine. NASA noted three specific areas of excellence: \n\n\"Dawn\" carries a memory chip bearing the names of more than 360,000 space enthusiasts. The names were submitted online as part of a public outreach effort between September 2005 and November 4, 2006. The microchip, which is two centimetres in diameter, was installed on May 17, 2007, above the spacecraft's forward ion thruster, underneath its high-gain antenna. More than one microchip was made, with a back-up copy put on display at the 2007 Open House event at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.\n\nNASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory provided overall planning and management of the mission, the flight system and scientific payload development, and provided the ion propulsion system. Orbital Sciences Corporation provided the spacecraft, which constituted the company's first interplanetary mission. The Max Planck Institute for Solar System Research and the German Aerospace Center (DLR) provided the framing cameras, the Italian Space Agency provided the mapping spectrometer, and the Los Alamos National Laboratory provided the gamma ray and neutron spectrometer.\n\n\nA magnetometer and laser altimeter were considered for the mission, but were not ultimately flown.\n\nOn April 10, 2007, the spacecraft arrived at the Astrotech Space Operations subsidiary of SPACEHAB, Inc. in Titusville, Florida, where it was prepared for launch. The launch was originally scheduled for June 20, but was delayed until June 30 due to delays with part deliveries. A broken crane at the launch pad, used to raise the solid rocket boosters, further delayed the launch for a week, until July 7; prior to this, on June 15, the second stage was successfully hoisted into position. A mishap at the Astrotech Space Operations facility, involving slight damage to one of the solar arrays, did not have an effect on the launch date; however, bad weather caused the launch to slip to July 8. Range tracking problems then delayed the launch to July 9, and then July 15. Launch planning was then suspended in order to avoid conflicts with the \"Phoenix\" mission to Mars, which was successfully launched on August 4.\n\nThe launch of \"Dawn\" was rescheduled for September 26, 2007, then September 27, due to bad weather delaying fueling of the second stage, the same problem that delayed the July 7 launch attempt. The launch window extended from 07:20–07:49 EDT (11:20–11:49 GMT). During the final built-in hold at T−4 minutes, a ship entered the exclusion area offshore, the strip of ocean where the rocket boosters were likely to fall after separation. After commanding the ship to leave the area, the launch was required to wait for the end of a collision avoidance window with the International Space Station. \"Dawn\" finally launched from pad 17-B at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on a Delta 7925-H rocket at 07:34 EDT, reaching escape velocity with the help of a spin-stabilized solid-fueled third stage. Thereafter, \"Dawn's\" ion thrusters took over.\n\nAfter initial testing, during which the ion thrusters accumulated more than 11 days 14 hours of thrust, \"Dawn\" began long-term cruise propulsion on December 17, 2007. On October 31, 2008, \"Dawn\" completed its first thrusting phase to send it on to Mars for a gravity assist flyby in February 2009. During this first interplanetary cruise phase, \"Dawn\" spent 270 days, or 85% of this phase, using its thrusters. It expended less than 72 kilograms of xenon propellant for a total change in velocity of 1.81 km/s. On November 20, 2008, \"Dawn\" performed its first trajectory correction maneuver (TCM1), firing its number 1 thruster for 2 hours, 11 minutes.\n\n\"Dawn\" made its closest approach (549 km) to Mars on February 17, 2009 during a successful gravity assist. This flyby slowed Mars' orbital velocity by about per 180 million years. On this day, the spacecraft placed itself in safe mode, resulting in some data acquisition loss. The spacecraft was reported to be back in full operation two days later, with no impact on the subsequent mission identified. The root cause of the event was reported to be a software programming error.\n\nTo cruise from Earth to its targets, \"Dawn\" traveled in an elongated outward spiral trajectory. The actual Vesta chronology and estimated Ceres chronology are as follows:\n\nAs \"Dawn\" approached Vesta, the Framing Camera instrument took progressively higher-resolution images, which were published online and at news conferences by NASA and MPI.\n\nOn May 3, 2011, \"Dawn\" acquired its first targeting image, 1,200,000 km from Vesta, and began its approach phase to the asteroid. On June 12, \"Dawn's\" speed relative to Vesta was slowed in preparation for its orbital insertion 34 days later.\n\n\"Dawn\" was scheduled to be inserted into orbit at 05:00 UTC on July 16 after a period of thrusting with its ion engines. Because its antenna was pointed away from the Earth during thrusting, scientists were not able to immediately confirm whether or not \"Dawn\" successfully made the maneuver. The spacecraft would then reorient itself, and was scheduled to check in at 06:30 UTC on July 17. NASA later confirmed that it received telemetry from \"Dawn\" indicating that the spacecraft successfully entered orbit around Vesta. The exact time of insertion could not be confirmed, since it depended on Vesta's mass distribution, which was not precisely known and at that time had only been estimated.\n\nAfter being captured by Vesta's gravity and entering its orbit on July 16, 2011, \"Dawn\" moved to a lower, closer orbit by running its xenon-ion engine using solar power. On August 2, it paused its spiralling approach to enter a 69-hour survey orbit at an altitude of . It assumed a 12.3-hour high-altitude mapping orbit at on September 27, and finally entered a 4.3-hour low-altitude mapping orbit at on December 8.\n\nIn May 2012, the \"Dawn\" team published preliminary results of their study of Vesta, including estimates of the size of Vesta's metal-rich core, which is theorized to be across. The scientists stated that they think that Vesta is the \"last of its kind\" – the only remaining example of the large planetoids that came together to form the rocky planets during the formation of the Solar System. In October 2012, further \"Dawn\" results were published, on the origin of anomalous dark spots and streaks on Vesta's surface, which were likely deposited by ancient asteroid impacts. In December 2012, it was reported that \"Dawn\" had observed gullies on the surface of Vesta that were interpreted to have been eroded by transiently flowing liquid water. More details about the \"Dawn\" mission's scientific discoveries at Vesta are included on the Vesta page.\n\n\"Dawn\" was originally scheduled to depart Vesta and begin its two and a half year journey to Ceres on August 26, 2012. However, a problem with one of the spacecraft's reaction wheels forced \"Dawn\" to delay its departure from Vesta's gravity until September 5, 2012.\n\nDuring its time in orbit around Vesta, the probe experienced several failures of its reaction wheels. Investigators planned to modify their activities upon arrival at Ceres for close range geographical survey mapping. The \"Dawn\" team stated that they would orient the probe using a \"hybrid\" mode utilizing both reaction wheels and ion thrusters. Engineers determined that this hybrid mode would conserve fuel. On November 13, 2013, during the transit, in a test preparation, \"Dawn\" engineers completed a 27-hour-long series of exercises of said hybrid mode.\n\nOn September 11, 2014, \"Dawn\" ion thruster unexpectedly ceased firing and the probe began operating in a triggered safe mode. To avoid a lapse in propulsion, the mission team hastily exchanged the active ion engine and electrical controller with another. The team stated that they had a plan in place to revive this disabled component later in 2014. The controller in the ion propulsion system may have been damaged by a high-energy particle. Upon exiting the safe mode on September 15, 2014, the probe's ion thruster resumed normal operation.\n\nFurthermore, the \"Dawn\" investigators also found that, after the propulsion issue, \"Dawn\" could not aim its main communications antenna towards Earth. Another antenna of weaker capacity was instead temporarily retasked. To correct the problem, the probe's computer was reset and the aiming mechanism of the main antenna was restored.\n\n\"Dawn\" began photographing an extended disk of Ceres on December 1, 2014, with images of partial rotations on January 13 and 25, 2015 released as animations.\nImages taken from \"Dawn\" of Ceres after January 26, 2015, exceeded the resolution of comparable images from the Hubble Space Telescope.\n\nBecause of the failure of two reaction wheels, \"Dawn\" made fewer camera observations of Ceres during its approach phase than it did during its Vesta approach. Camera observations required turning the spacecraft, which consumed precious hydrazine fuel. Seven optical navigation photo sessions (OpNav 1–7, on January 13 and 25, February 3 and 25, March 1, and April 10 and 15) and two full rotation observation sessions (RC1–2, on February 12 and 19) were planned before full observation begins with orbital capture. The gap in March and early April was due to a period when Ceres appears too close to the Sun from \"Dawn\" vantage point to take pictures safely.\n\n\"Dawn\" entered Ceres orbit on March 6, 2015, four months prior to the arrival of \"New Horizons\" at Pluto. \"Dawn\" thus became the first mission to study a dwarf planet at close range. \"Dawn\" initially entered a polar orbit around Ceres, and continued to refine its orbit. It obtained its first full topographic map of Ceres during this period.\n\nFrom April 23 to May 9, 2015, \"Dawn\" entered an RC3 orbit (Rotation Characterization 3) at an altitude of . The RC3 orbit lasted 15 days, during which \"Dawn\" alternated taking pictures and sensor measurements and then relayed the resulting data back to Earth. On May 9, 2015, \"Dawn\" powered its ion engines and began a month-long spiral descent down to its second mapping point, a Survey orbit, three times closer to Ceres than the previous orbit. The spacecraft stopped twice to take images of Ceres during its spiral descent into the new orbit.\n\nOn June 6, 2015, \"Dawn\" entered the new Survey orbit at an altitude of . In the new Survey orbit, \"Dawn\" circled Ceres every three Earth days. The Survey phase lasted 22 days (7 orbits), and was designed to obtain a global view of Ceres with \"Dawn\" framing camera, and generate detailed global maps with the visible and infrared mapping spectrometer (VIR).\n\nOn June 30, 2015, \"Dawn\" experienced a software glitch when an anomaly in its orientation system occurred. It responded by going into safe mode and sending a signal to engineers, who fixed the error on July 2, 2015. Engineers determined the cause of the anomaly to be related to the mechanical gimbal system associated with one of \"Dawn's\" ion engines. After switching to a separate ion engine and conducting tests from July 14 through July 16, 2015, engineers certified the ability to continue the mission.\n\nOn August 17, 2015, \"Dawn\" entered the HAMO orbit (High-Altitude Mapping Orbit). \"Dawn\" descended to an altitude of , where in August 2015 it began the two-month HAMO phase. During this phase, \"Dawn\" continued to acquire near-global maps with the VIR and framing camera at higher resolution than in the Survey phase. It also imaged in stereo to resolve the surface in 3D.\n\nOn October 23, 2015, \"Dawn\" began a two-month spiral toward Ceres to achieve a LAMO orbit (Low-Altitude Mapping Orbit) at a distance of . Since reaching this fourth orbit in December 2015, \"Dawn\" was scheduled to acquire data for the next three months with its gamma-ray and neutron detector (GRaND) and other instruments that identified the composition at the surface.\n\nHaving surpassed its mapping objectives, \"Dawn\" climbed to its fifth science orbit of beginning on September 2, 2016, to complete additional observations from a different angle. \"Dawn\" began raising its altitude to its sixth science orbit of on November 4, 2016, with a goal of reaching it by December 2016. The return to a higher altitude allowed for a second set of data at this altitude, which improves the overall science quality when added to the first batch. However, this time the spacecraft was placed where it was not spiraling and was orbiting in the same direction as Ceres, which reduced propellant consumption.\n\nA flyby of the asteroid 2 Pallas after the completion of the Ceres mission was suggested but never formally considered; orbiting Pallas would not have been possible for \"Dawn\", due to the high inclination of Pallas' orbit relative to Ceres.\n\nIn April 2016, the \"Dawn\" project team submitted a proposal to NASA for an extended mission that would have seen the spacecraft break orbit from Ceres and perform a flyby of the asteroid 145 Adeona in May 2019, arguing that the science gained from visiting a third asteroid might outweigh the returns from staying at Ceres. NASA's Planetary Mission Senior Review Panel, however, declined the proposal in May 2016. A one-year mission extension was approved, but the review panel ordered that \"Dawn\" remain at Ceres, stating that the long-term observations of the dwarf planet, particularly as it approached perihelion, would potentially yield better science.\n\nThe one-year extension expired on June 30, 2017. The spacecraft was placed in an uncontrolled but relatively stable orbit around Ceres, where it ran out of hydrazine propellant on 1 November 2018, and where it will remain as a \"monument\" for at least 20 years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4412382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4412382", "title": "Friability", "text": "Friability\n\nFriability ( ), the condition of being friable, describes the tendency of a solid substance to break into smaller pieces under duress or contact, especially by rubbing. The opposite of friable is indurate.\n\nSubstances that are designated hazardous, such as asbestos or crystalline silica, are often said to be friable if small particles are easily dislodged and become airborne, and hence respirable (able to enter human lungs), posing a health hazard.\n\nTougher substances, such as concrete, may also be mechanically ground down and reduced to finely divided mineral dust. However, such substances are not generally considered friable because of the degree of difficulty involved in breaking the substance's chemical bonds through mechanical means. Some substances, such as polyurethane foams, show an increase in friability with exposure to ultraviolet radiation, such as sunlight.\n\nFriable is sometimes used metaphorically to describe \"brittle\" personalities who can be \"rubbed\" by seemingly-minor stimuli to produce extreme emotional responses.\n\nA friable substance is any substance that can be reduced to fibers or finer particles by the action of a small pressure or friction, such as rubbing or inadvertently brushing up against the substance. The term could also apply to any material that exhibits these properties, such as:\n\n\n\"Friable\" and \"indurated\" are terms used commonly in soft-rock geology, especially with sandstones, mudstones, and shales to describe how well the component rock fragments are held together.\n\nExamples:\n\nThe term \"friable\" is also used to describe tumors in medicine. This is an important determination because tumors that are easily torn apart have a higher risk of malignancy and metastasis.\n\nExamples:\n\nFriability testing is a laboratory technique used by the pharmaceutical industry to test the durability of tablets during transit. This testing involves repeatedly dropping a sample of tablets over a fixed time, using a rotating wheel with a baffle. The result is inspected for broken tablets, and the percentage of tablet mass lost through chipping. A typical specification will allow a non-zero percentage of chipping, and zero broken tablets.\n\n"}
{"id": "10882960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10882960", "title": "Fusobacterium polymorphum", "text": "Fusobacterium polymorphum\n\nFusobacterium polymorphum is a bacterium that has been isolated from the gingival crevice in humans, and has been implicated in the immunopathology of periodontal disease. It has also been isolated in guinea pigs in research studies.\n"}
{"id": "4666698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4666698", "title": "Georgiaite", "text": "Georgiaite\n\nGeorgiaite is a form or type of tektite. They are found in part of the 34-million-year-old North American strewnfield coming from the Chesapeake Bay impact crater. Two strewnfields and tektite groups are associated with this impact: the black Bediasites in Texas and the green Georgiaites in Georgia.\n\nGeorgiaites occur in east-central Georgia, with approximately 1000 specimens found to date. They are splash-form tektites.\n"}
{"id": "50326547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50326547", "title": "Immunome", "text": "Immunome\n\nThe Immunome is the set of the genes and proteins that constitute the immune system. Typically, immunomes are studied using immunofluorescence microscopy to determine the presence and activity of immune-related enzymes and pathways.\n"}
{"id": "36456363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36456363", "title": "Inktomi (crater)", "text": "Inktomi (crater)\n\nInktomi, also known as The Splat, is a prominent rayed impact crater in diameter located in the southern hemisphere of Saturn's moon Rhea. The crater is named for the Lakota spider-god Iktomi and is located at . Inktomi is thought to be the youngest surface feature on Rhea, with estimates ranging from 8 to 280 million years.\n\nThe rayed ejecta pattern indicates an oblique impact occurred from the west. The impact ejected pure water ice from beneath Rhea's surface creating a region contrastingly lighter than the surrounding regions. Recent analysis of \"Cassini\"s VIMS data revealed clean water ice without impurities at the crater and in its ejecta. Reassessment of the images from orbit, using additional images taken from Inktomi and its surroundings, confirms a continuous ejecta blanket almost devoid of small craters, thus likely a more geologically recent impact. A 3-dimensional anaglyph constructed from \"Cassini\" VIMS images shows a hilly crater floor with a prominent but topographically low central peak complex. While regular radial secondaries occur outside of the continuous ejecta blanket associated with the bright rays, clusters of numerous small craters could be identified in the eastern part of the crater floor and in the adjacent continuous ejecta. These small craters were most likely created by material ejected from the Inktomi impact at a steep angle.\n"}
{"id": "14458388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14458388", "title": "Integrated Software for Imagers and Spectrometers", "text": "Integrated Software for Imagers and Spectrometers\n\nIntegrated Software for Imagers and Spectrometers, also abbreviated to Isis, is a specialized software package developed by the USGS to process images and spectra collected by current and past NASA planetary missions sent to Earth's Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, and other solar system bodies.\n\nThe history of ISIS began in 1971 at the United States Geological Survey (USGS) in Flagstaff, Arizona.\n\nIsis was developed in 1989, primarily to support the Galileo NIMS instrument.\n\nIt contains standard image processing capabilities (such as image algebra, filters, statistics) for both 2D images and 3D data cubes, as well as mission-specific data processing capabilities and cartographic rendering functions.\n\nFamily of related formats that are used by the USGS Planetary Cartography group to store and distribute planetary imagery data. \n"}
{"id": "25476900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25476900", "title": "Kendrick mass", "text": "Kendrick mass\n\nThe Kendrick mass is defined by setting the mass of a chosen molecular fragment, typically CH, to an integer value in atomic mass units. It is different from the IUPAC definition, which is based on setting the mass of C isotope to exactly 12 u. The Kendrick mass is often used to identify homologous compounds differing only by a number of base units in high resolution mass spectra. This definition of mass was first suggested in 1963 by chemist Edward Kendrick, and it has been adopted by scientists working in the area of high-resolution mass spectrometry, environmental analysis, proteomics, petroleomics, metabolomics, polymer analysis, etc.\n\nAccording to the procedure outlined by Kendrick, the mass of CH is defined as exactly 14 Da, instead of the IUPAC mass of 14.01565 Da.\n\nTo convert an IUPAC mass of a particular compound to the Kendrick mass, the equation\n\nis used. The mass in dalton units (\"Da\") can be converted to the Kendrick scale by dividing by 1.0011178.\n\nOther groups of atoms in addition to CH can be used define the Kendrick mass, for example CO, H, HO, and O. In this case, the Kendrick mass for a family of compounds F is given by\n\nFor the hydrocarbon analysis, F=CH.\n\nAs an example, Kendrick analysis has been used for visualizing families of halogenated compounds of environmental interest that differ only by the number of chlorine, bromine or fluorine substitutions.\n\nA recent publication has suggested that Kendrick mass be expressed in Kendrick units with symbol \"Ke\".\n\nThe Kendrick mass defect is defined as the exact Kendrick mass subtracted from the nominal (integer) Kendrick mass:\n\nIn recent years the equation has changed due to rounding errors to:\n\nThe members of an alkylation series have the same degree of unsaturation and number of heteroatoms (nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur) but differ in the number of CH units. Members of an alkylation series have the same Kendrick mass defect.\n\nThe Kendrick mass defect has also been defined as\n\nThe abbreviations \"KM\" and \"KMD\" have been used for Kendrick mass and Kendrick mass defect, respectively.\n\nIn a Kendrick mass analysis, the Kendrick mass defect is plotted as function of nominal Kendrick mass for ions observed in a mass spectrum. Ions of the same family, for example the members of an alkylation series, have the same Kendrick mass defect but different nominal Kendrick mass and are positioned along a horizontal line on the plot. If the composition of one ion in the family can be determined, the composition of the other ions can be inferred. Horizontal lines of different Kendrick mass defect correspond to ions of different composition, for example degree of saturation or heteroatom content.\n\nA Kendrick mass analysis is often used in conjunction with a Van Krevelen diagram, a two- or three- dimensional graphical analysis in which the elemental composition of the compounds are plotted according to the atomic ratios H/C, O/C, or N/C.\n\nBecause Kendrick mass defect analysis can be carried out by substituting any repeating unit for CH, KMD analysis is particularly useful for the visualizing the data from polymer mass spectra. For example, a Kendrick mass defect plot of an ethylene oxide/propylene oxide copolymer can be created by using ethylene oxide (CHO) as the base unit and calculating the Kendrick mass as:\n\nformula_6\n\nwhere 44.02621 is the calculated IUPAC mass for CHO. Alternatively, a KMD plot can be constructed for the same copolymer by using propylene oxide as the base unit.\n\nPolymer mass spectra containing multiple charge ions exhibit isotopic splitting.\n\nKendrick mass defect plots created by using fractional base units exhibit enhanced resolution. Referenced Kendrick mass defect plots (KMD plots referenced to the terminal group and adduct composition) with fractional base units can be used to obtain an overview of copolymer composition.\n\n"}
{"id": "52724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52724", "title": "Krist Novoselic", "text": "Krist Novoselic\n\nKrist Anthony Novoselic (; ; born May 16, 1965) is an American musician and political activist, and was the bassist and founding member of the grunge band Nirvana alongside guitarist and lead singer Kurt Cobain. Nirvana achieved massive success, earning multiple gold and platinum awards and touring around the world at sold-out shows.\n\nAfter Nirvana disbanded following the death of Kurt Cobain in 1994, Novoselic formed Sweet 75 in the following year and Eyes Adrift in 2002, releasing one album with each band. From 2006 to 2009, he played in the punk rock band Flipper, and in 2011, he contributed bass and accordion to the song \"I Should Have Known\" on the Foo Fighters' studio album \"Wasting Light\", along with playing bass guitar and accordion in his current band, Giants in the Trees since June 2016.\n\nApart from his musical endeavours, Novoselic has been active politically, including the creation of the political action committee JAMPAC (Joint Artists and Musicians Political Action Committee). From 2007 through 2010 he wrote a weekly column on music and politics for \"Seattle Weekly's\" website. Since 2008 Novoselic has been board chair of the electoral reform organization FairVote.\n\nKrist Anthony Novoselic was born on May 16, 1965 to Croatian immigrant parents, Kristo and Maria, in Compton, California. He lived there for one year before his parents moved to the ethnically Croatian Los Angeles neighborhood of San Pedro, where he remained for most of his childhood.\n\nNovoselic has a younger brother Robert, born in 1968, and a younger sister, Diana, born in 1973. In 1979, his family relocated to Aberdeen, Washington as a result of surging real estate costs in California. In 1980, his parents sent him to live with relatives in Zadar, Croatia. Novoselic returned to Aberdeen in 1981. His earliest memories of listening to music was listening to Chuck Berry with his father. Growing up, he had a \"severe\" underbite, for which underwent corrective surgery.\n\nNovoselic was already interested in hard rock bands such as Led Zeppelin, Black Sabbath, The Who, Van Halen, Devo and Aerosmith. He also enjoyed listening to Yugoslavian bands such as Zabranjeno Pušenje, Prljavo kazalište and Azra. While in Yugoslavia, he picked up an interest in punk rock, and discovered bands such as the Sex Pistols and Ramones when he lived in Croatia at the age of 14 for one year. He has cited Paul McCartney, Geezer Butler, John Entwistle, and Gene Simmons as the fundamental influences of his bass playing.\n\nSometime later, Novoselic's brother Robert introduced him to his friend Kurt Cobain, who had noticed loud music coming from upstairs. Robert told Cobain that it was his older brother, who listened to punk rock. Cobain eventually befriended the older Novoselic, as the pair ended up sharing similar musical tastes, including a fondness for local band Melvins. The two had several mutual friends and began hanging out shortly thereafter. Krist attended Aberdeen High School and Kurt attended Montesano High School (Washington). At one point, Cobain gave Novoselic a demo tape of his former band Fecal Matter, and asked him to form a band together. After several months, Novoselic finally listened to the tape, liked it, and agreed to start a band with Cobain.\n\nAfter high school, Novoselic worked as a painter and decorator and was eventually laid off.\n\n \nCobain and Novoselic's first band lasted barely a few weeks before it disbanded, leaving the pair to move on. However, the duo eventually discovered that Melvins could pull $80 a night for one show. Inspired, Cobain and Novoselic started a Creedence Clearwater Revival cover band, in which Cobain played drums and Novoselic sang and played guitar. That band was short-lived as well. Some months later, Cobain and Novoselic met drummer Aaron Burckhard. While the new band never used the name, it was the first incarnation of Nirvana.\nBurckhard lasted only a few months and Melvins' drummer Dale Crover filled in until Novoselic and Cobain met Chad Channing. The trio recorded their debut album \"Bleach\", released in 1989. Channing left the band in 1990 and was briefly replaced by Crover and Mudhoney drummer Dan Peters. Novoselic contributed to song writing of various songs, helping out Cobain, such as giving ideas.\n\nLater in 1990, Melvins' singer-guitarist Buzz Osborne encouraged Novoselic and Cobain to check out a punk band called Scream. The pair were impressed by their drummer, Dave Grohl. A few weeks later, Scream disbanded, and Grohl placed a call to Osborne for advice. Osborne gave him Novoselic's phone number, and Novoselic invited Grohl up to Seattle (from San Francisco, where Scream broke up). Grohl passed the audition and joined Nirvana. Grohl was Nirvana's fifth and final drummer. This was after the first few recordings of songs from their \"Bleach\" Album. Novoselic spent the following months with Nirvana traveling to various labels as the band shopped for a deal, eventually signing with DGC Records.\n\nIn the spring of 1991, the band entered Sound City Studios in Los Angeles to record \"Nevermind.\" Novoselic helped write the song \"Polly\". Upon its release, \"Nevermind\" (1991) exceeded all expectations and became a worldwide commercial success.\"Nevermind\" had launched the band as a worldwide phenomenon with their hit single \"Smells Like Teen Spirit\".\n\nIn 1992, at the MTV music awards show, Nirvana would win awards for Best New Artist in a Video and Best Alternative Video for \"Smells Like Teen Spirit.\" At the show, Nirvana performed \"Lithium\". When Novoselic started playing the opening bass riff, he signaled that he could not hear his bass. Instead of continuing to play, Novoselic threw his bass guitar in the air, to perform a \"Bass Toss\". He failed to catch it, later stating that he misjudged the height; he further stated that he \"faked like he was knocked out.\" Musician Brian May ran to give him medical attention; he did not suffer any injuries.\n\nIn 1992, Novoselic and the rest of Nirvana recorded a compilation album named \"Incesticide\". Novoselic helped write lyrics for the songs \"Dive\", \"Hairspray Queen\", and \"Aneurysm\" on the album. This album was produced by a joint venture between DGC and Sup Pop. \nDuring Nirvana's 1992 Reading concert, Novoselic sang \"The Money Will Roll Right In\" with Cobain. Novoselic was an occasional vocalist and backing vocalist in Nirvana, occasionally singing \"Scoff\" and \"Rape Me\" at live shows. Novoselic stated that \"I kind of discovered my voice for the first time, and the more I did it, the better it got.\"\n\nIn early 1993, Nirvana worked on their third album \"In Utero\", it debuted at number one on the billboard 200 in September of that year. However, the recording sessions mixed by Steve Albini were criticized by the band members, saying some songs \"didn't sound perfect\" as well as the Novoselic and the rest of the band agreeing that Novoselic's bass lines sounded \"too low\". \"In Utero\" sold 3.5 million copies in the United States. In November of that year, Nirvana performed on MTV Unplugged with Lori Goldston playing cello, the introduction of guitarist Pat Smear, and Novoselic playing acoustic bass guitar, accordion, and acoustic rhythm guitar. This live performance was released a year later as an album, named \"MTV Unplugged in New York,\" which earned a Grammy Award for best alternative music performance.\n\nNirvana ended abruptly in April 1994 following Cobain's death. For most of the rest of that year, Novoselic retreated from the spotlight. One of a few public appearances came that September at the MTV Video Music Awards, where the video for Nirvana's \"Heart-Shaped Box\" was awarded for Best Alternative Video. Novoselic took the opportunity to pay tribute to Cobain.\n\nPrior to their 1994 European tour, the band scheduled session time at Robert Lang Studios in Seattle to work on demos. For most of the three-day session, Cobain was absent, so Novoselic and Grohl worked on demos of their own songs. The duo completed several songs, including \"Exhausted\", \"Big Me\", \"February Stars\", and \"Butterflies\". On the third day of the session, Cobain finally arrived. The song \"You Know You're Right\" was the band's final studio recording. The band had split up following Kurt's death, with both members going their separate ways.\n\nNovoselic and Grohl continued to support the Nirvana franchise. Novoselic worked on completing the \"With the Lights Out\" box set and \"From the Muddy Banks of the Wishkah\" album, as well as pushing for release of a 20th anniversary album for \"Nevermind\".\n\nAfter Cobain's death, Novoselic continued to dabble in musical endeavors. He co-formed the band Sweet 75 with Seattle musician Yva Las Vegass in 1995, releasing a single self-titled album in 1997.\n\nIn 1996, Novoselic joined singer Johnny Cash, guitarist Kim Thayil of Soundgarden and drummer Sean Kinney of Alice in Chains to record a cover of Willie Nelson's \"Time of the Preacher\", for the tribute album \"Twisted Willie\", released in January 1996.\n\nIn 1998, Novoselic directed his first movie, \"L7: \", a pseudo-documentary that utilizes concert footage taped in 1997 in three American cities. In 1999, he joined Jello Biafra and Soundgarden guitarist Kim Thayil in the No WTO Combo.\n\nIn 2002, Novoselic performed uncredited background vocals on Foo Fighters' song \"Walking a Line\", written as a tribute to Cobain, during the \"One by One\" album sessions. The track is included on the \"One by One\" bonus DVD, as well as being a bonus track to the album. He then joined former Meat Puppets front man Curt Kirkwood and former Sublime drummer Bud Gaugh to form Eyes Adrift. In Australia, there was another group called \"Eyes Adrift\", and rather than pay to license that name, the trio called the band and album \"Bud, Curt & Krist\" in this nation. Eyes adrift released a self-titled album with twelve songs, with the Japanese version including two extras. Eyes Adrift was the first official release in Krist's career where he sang lead vocals, singing lead on \"Inquiring Minds\", \"Dottie Dawn & Julie Jewel\" and \"Pasted\". They also released a single named \"Alaska\". He also took a highly active role in the songwriting process, co-writing several songs with Kirkwood. They toured mostly around the United States. The group disbanded in 2003.\n\nFollowing the end of Eyes Adrift, Novoselic announced that he was quitting the music business, noting that he disliked the process of building up publicity for new records. However, in recent years, Novoselic has occasionally worked on music for a possible solo album, noting, \"Right now, I'm just doing it for myself, and that's what it's all about.\"\n\nIn November 2006, it was announced that Novoselic would join Flipper, replacing Bruno DeSmartas on bass, for a tour of the United Kingdom and Ireland. He was a full-time member of the band and had been working on their new album. On September 22, 2008, because of responsibilities at home, Novoselic announced his departure from the band.\n\nIn 2009, Novoselic played a newspaper vendor in the movie \"World's Greatest Dad\" starring Robin Williams. In October 2010, Dave Grohl, former Nirvana bandmate of Novoselic, announced live on BBC radio, that Novoselic would be joining Foo Fighters as a bassist and accordionist on their next album, \"Wasting Light\", which was released in 2011.\n\nNovoselic also played bass on children's music artist Caspar Babypants' 2010 album \"This Is Fun!\", for a cover of the Nirvana song \"Sliver\". In 2011, he performed \"On a Plain\" and \"Sliver\" with the band at the \"Nevermind\" 20th anniversary celebration in Seattle.\n\nIn 2012, the Nirvana members partnered with Paul McCartney on the song \"Cut Me Some Slack\", which was composed specially for \"Sound City\" directed by Dave Grohl. The song was first shown on December 12, 2012, at the , which brought together music stars for the victims of Hurricane Sandy in New York. The song was received well by critics. Allmusic called it a \"tune with an immediate hook [and] melody\". The song won the Grammy award for Best Rock Song in 2014. The partnership was called as \"Sirvana\" by Novoselic, referring to \"Sir Paul McCartney\".\n\nOn April 17, 2016, Novoselic performed with Paul McCartney on \"Helter Skelter\" in Seattle as part of the One on One tour during the encore.\n\nIn November, 2016, Novoselic confirmed through a reply to a tweet that he is writing more new music. His current band is Giants in the Trees, with band members Jillian Raye, Erik Friend and Ray Prestegard. He is also in the band Filthy Friends, playing bass and accordion. He also collaborates with Lepidopterist and author Dr. Robert Michael Pyle with the musical project Butterfly Launches Off Spar Pole. In late July 2017, Giants in the Trees released their first song called \"Sasquatch\" which features a music video Krist joked as \"costing over 2 million U.S. dollars to produce\". The video has 160K+ views on YouTube. Giants in the Trees first album was released in late 2017.\n\nGrohl originally asked Novoselic to join Foo Fighters as a full-time band member, he declined, stating they would call it \"Nirvana 2\".\n\nNovoselic's first experience with Foo Fighters was participating in the encore of their show on August 29, 1997 at Memorial Stadium as part of the Bumbershoot festival, where he played bass for the band's covers of \"Purple Rain\" and \"Communication Breakdown\". In January 2002, Novoselic performed backing vocals for a non-album track titled \"Walking a Line\", later released on a special edition of the band's album \"One by One\".\n\nLater, during the encore of Foo Fighters' secret show at Paladino's in Tarzana, California on December 22, 2010, the band, with Grohl on drums was joined onstage by Novoselic and the band's live guitarist Pat Smear for a version of Nirvana's \"Marigold\" a 1992 Grohl original, which was a B-side on Nirvana's \"Heart-Shaped Box\", the first single from \"In Utero\". Novoselic also recorded bass and accordion on the song \"I Should Have Known\", appearing on Foo Fighters' seventh studio album called \"Wasting Light\", released on April 12, 2011.\n\nOn December 5, 2017, Novoselic joined Foo Fighters on stage at Matthew Knight Arena in Eugene, Oregon, to play bass guitar on \"Big Me\", a song off Foo Fighters debut album \"Foo Fighters\".\n\nTen months later, on October 6, 2018, Novoselic joined the band during an encore to play several Nirvana songs, with Dave Grohl on drums, Pat Smear on guitar, and Joan Jett filling in as their lead singer.\n\nNovoselic has had an interest in politics from high school. This included the sectarian conflict between Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn 1992, the Washington state legislature attempted to pass a bill called the Erotic Music Law. The law would allow courts to declare certain albums \"erotic\" by their content, and would make it illegal to sell those albums to those under the age of 18. A lobbying group called the Washington Music Industry Coalition formed as a response to the bill. Novoselic and Nirvana actively campaigned against the bill and performed a benefit concert for the lobbying group in September 1992. Krist appeared on ABC KOMO-TVs \"Town Meeting\" in March 1992 arguing his points and expressing his views with two opposing parties.\n\nIn 1995, the Erotic Music Law was reintroduced to the Washington State Legislature as the Matters Harmful to Minors bill. Noting that the music industry had serious clout in Seattle given the success of the scene, Novoselic proposed creating a political action committee, which was named JAMPAC (Joint Artists and Musicians Political Action Committee). Over the next several years, JAMPAC fought a number of different issues, including the Teen Dance Ordinance, a 1985 law that strictly limited the ability of minors to attend shows. With JAMPAC, Novoselic began to turn his focus more and more towards politics.\n\nNovoselic remains active in politics making appearances to advocate electoral reform (especially instant-runoff voting and proportional representation) and running the website. He considered a 2004 run for Lieutenant Governor of Washington as a Democrat, challenging an incumbent of the same party, but ultimately decided against it. He also joined the board of FairVote, then the Center for Voting and Democracy, and was appointed chair in January 2008.\n\nNovoselic's first book, \"\", was published in October 2004. It covers Novoselic's musical past, including Nirvana's rise to a worldwide phenomenon of the early 1990s. It also covers his interest in politics, his support of electoral reform, and his belief in the need to return to grassroots movements and clean up politics overall.\n\nHe supported Democratic Senator Barack Obama in the 2008 Presidential election, and in the primary. He has since broken with the Democratic Party, partly because \"it's a top-down structure\" adverse to reform from its grassroots.\nIn 2007, he made a donation to libertarian Republican Congressman Ron Paul.\n\nHe withdrew from the campaign for county clerk of Wahkiakum County. He was running under the \"Grange Party\". He is a member of the National Grange of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry. However, the Grange is not actually a political party. He was running in order to protest Washington state's system, in which a candidate can claim any party as their own (real or fictional) without consent or support from the party.\n\nNovoselic continues to support political reform, even looking at social networks such as Facebook and Twitter, as major factors in shaping the political future. He explained his support for fair voting reforms on C-SPAN's \"Washington Journal\" in 2012.\n\nIn an interview for \"Reason TV\", Novoselic was asked how he described his political views, and he responded, \"I'm an anarcho-capitalist, socialist, moderate... I don't know\" and continued to say that while his political views couldn't be easily categorized, he finds fault in the political philosophies of both the left and right-wing. On his Twitter page, he announced that he had voted for 2016 Libertarian presidential candidate Gary Johnson. On his blog, he supported Lawrence Lessig and his political campaign.\n\nIn 2004, Novoselic's book \"Of Grunge and Government: Let's Fix This Broken Democracy!\" was published.\n\nIn 2014, ahead of Nirvana's induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, Krist and Dave made guest appearances on \"The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon\".\n\nIn 2007, Krist started writing blogs for the Seattle Weekly website.\n\nIn 2017, Novoselic was the DJ numerous times for Coast radio.\n\nNovoselic has a blog entitled \"Dream Journal.\"\n\nIn 1989 Novoselic married Shelli Hyrkas, whom he had dated in high school. They divorced in 1999.\n\nAside from learning bass guitar, Novoselic learned how to play accordion and the electric organ on his own time.\n\nNovoselic is an FAA licensed pilot, earning a single engine land rating after passing his flight test in April 2002. He went on to earn a multi-engine pilot certificate in February 2018.\n\nIn early 2004, Novoselic married American artist Darbury Ayn Stenderu. They reside near Deep River, Washington, in rural Wahkiakum County, Washington. He stated that \"I live out in the country now and it's quiet and it's a place where I can think a lot.\"\n\nNovoselic has a strong interest in animals, geology, nature, and other sciences, as well as growing his own food. He owns two cats, named Einstein and Doris.\n\nNovoselic wrote a blog for the \"Seattle Weekly\" website from 2007 to 2010.\n\nIn 2016, Novoselic completed a Bachelor of Science degree in social sciences, studying at Washington State University.\n\nNovoselic is Croatian American, with his parents being immigrants. He can speak partially fluent Croatian.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37934093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37934093", "title": "List of Phoenicopteriformes by population", "text": "List of Phoenicopteriformes by population\n\nThis is a list of Phoenicopteriformes species by global population. While numbers are estimates, they have been made by the experts in their fields. For more information on how these estimates were ascertained, see Wikipedia's articles on population biology and population ecology.\n\nThis list is incomprehensive, as the American flamingo has yet to be quantified.\n"}
{"id": "32392310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32392310", "title": "List of additives for hydraulic fracturing", "text": "List of additives for hydraulic fracturing\n\nThe differences between additives for hydraulic fracturing in different countries are the type of chemicals used (hazardous, non-hazardous), the disclosure of chemicals and the composition of fracturing fluid. In 2010, Halliburton announced the creation of food additive based hydraulic fracturing fluid in response to calls for transparency and demand for a \"more environmentally friendly\" unconventional hydrocarbon production.\n\nIn Europe, Poland, Norway and Germany have the largest reserves of shale gas, and drillings are underway.\nIn the United Kingdom, the environmental regulator permits only chemical additives which are classed as non hazardous to groundwater for fracturing fluids. Operators are required to disclose the content of hydraulic fracturing fluids to the relevant environment agency while the composition must be disclosed if the regulator demands it. The permitted additives for hydraulic fracturing fluid include polycrylamide, hydrochloric acid and a biocide.\n\nIn the US, about 750 compounds have been listed as additives for hydraulic fracturing, also known as ingredients of pressurized fracking fluid, in an industry report to the US Congress in 2011 after originally being kept secret for \"commercial reasons\". The following is a partial list of the chemical constituents in additives that are used or have been used in fracturing operations, as based on the report of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, some are known to be carcinogenic.\n"}
{"id": "10496881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10496881", "title": "List of impact craters in North America", "text": "List of impact craters in North America\n\nThis list includes all 60 confirmed impact craters in North America in the Earth Impact Database (EID), plus the newly-discovered Hiawatha crater in Greenland which is not yet in the EID. These features were caused by the collision of large meteorites or comets with the Earth. For eroded or buried craters, the stated diameter typically refers to an estimate of original rim diameter, and may not correspond to present surface features.\n\nThe following craters are officially considered \"unconfirmed\" because they are not listed in the Earth Impact Database. Due to stringent requirements regarding evidence and peer-reviewed publication, newly discovered craters or those with difficulty collecting evidence generally are known for some time before becoming listed. However, entries on the unconfirmed list could still have an impact origin disproven.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54678642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54678642", "title": "List of investigational drugs", "text": "List of investigational drugs\n\nList of investigational drugs may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "14833025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14833025", "title": "List of presidents of the American Statistical Association", "text": "List of presidents of the American Statistical Association\n\nThe President of the American Statistical Association is the head of the American Statistical Association (ASA). According to the association's bylaws, the president is an officer, and a member of the board of directors and of the executive committee. Elections for the position are held annually, in which all full members are eligible to vote. The term in office is typically three years, as President-Elect and Past President are also official positions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4122187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4122187", "title": "List of unsolved problems in economics", "text": "List of unsolved problems in economics\n\nThis is a list of some of the major unsolved problems, puzzles, or questions in economics. Some of these are theoretical in origin and some of them concern the inability of orthodox economic theory to explain an empirical observation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7119994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7119994", "title": "List of volcanoes in Djibouti", "text": "List of volcanoes in Djibouti\n\nThis is a list of active and extinct volcanoes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944796", "title": "Lists of microcomputers", "text": "Lists of microcomputers\n\nFor an overview of microcomputers of different kinds, see the following lists of microcomputers:\n\n"}
{"id": "910645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=910645", "title": "Mediterranean monk seal", "text": "Mediterranean monk seal\n\nThe Mediterranean monk seal (\"Monachus monachus\") is a monk seal belonging to the family Phocidae. , it is estimated that fewer than 700 individuals survive in three or four isolated subpopulations in the Mediterranean, (especially) in the Aegean Sea, the archipelago of Madeira and the Cabo Blanco area in the northeastern Atlantic Ocean. It is believed to be the world's rarest pinniped species.\n\nThis species of seal grows from approximately long at birth up to an average of as adults. Males weigh an average of and females weigh , with overall weight ranging from . They are thought to live up to 45 years old; the average life span is thought to be 20 to 25 years old and reproductive maturity is reached at around age four.\n\nThe monk seals' pups are about long and weigh around , their skin being covered by 1–1.5 centimeter-long, dark brown to black hair. On their bellies, there is a white stripe, which differs in color and shape between the two sexes. In females the stripe is usually rectangular in shape whereas in males it is usually butterfly shaped. This hair is replaced after six to eight weeks by the usual short hair adults carry.\n\nPregnant Mediterranean monk seals typically use inaccessible undersea caves while giving birth, though historical descriptions show they used open beaches until the 18th century. There are eight pairs of teeth in both jaws.\n\nBelieved to have the shortest hair of any pinniped, the Mediterranean monk seal fur is black (males) or brown to dark grey (females), with a paler belly, which is close to white in males. The snout is short broad and flat, with very pronounced, long nostrils that face upward, unlike their Hawaiian relative, which tend to have more forward nostrils. The flippers are relatively short, with small slender claws. Monk seals have two pairs of retractable abdominal teats, unlike most other pinnipeds.\n\nVery little is known of this seal's reproduction. Scientists have suggested that they are polygynous, with males being very territorial where they mate with females. Although there is no breeding season since births take place year round, there is a peak in October and November. This is also the time when caves are prone to wash out due to high surf or storm surge, which causes high mortality rates among monk seal pups, especially at the key Cabo Blanco colony. According to the IUCN species factsheet, \"pup survival is low; just under 50% survive their first two months to the onset of their moult, and most mortalities occurred in the first two weeks. Survival of pups born from September to January is 29%. This very low survival rate is associated with mortality caused by severe storms, and high swells and tides, but impoverished genetic variability and inbreeding may also be involved. Pups born during the rest of the year had a survival rate of 71%\".\n\nIn 2008, lactation was reported in an open beach, the first such record since 1945, which could suggest the seal could begin feeling increasingly safe to return to open beaches for breeding purposes in Cabo Blanco.\n\nPups make first contact with the water two weeks after their birth and are weaned at around 18 weeks of age; females caring for pups will go off to feed for an average of nine hours. Most individuals are believed to reach maturity at four years of age. The gestation period lasts close to a year. However, it is believed to be common among monk seals of the Cabo Blanco colony to have a gestation period lasting slightly longer than a year.\n\nMediterranean monk seals are diurnal and feed on a variety of fish and mollusks, primarily octopus, squid, and eels, up to 3 kg per day. They are known to forage at depths up to 250 meters, with an average depth varying between specimens. Monk seals prefer hunting in wide-open spaces, enabling them to use their speed more effectively. They are successful bottom-feeding hunters; some have even been observed lifting slabs of rock in search of prey.\n\nThe habitat of this pinniped has changed over the years. In ancient times, and up until the 20th century, Mediterranean monk seals had been known to congregate, give birth, and seek refuge on open beaches. In more recent times, they have left their former habitat and now only use sea caves for these activities. Often these caves are inaccessible to humans. Often their caves have underwater entries and their caves are often positioned along remote or rugged coastlines.\n\nScientists have confirmed this is a recent adaptation, most likely due to the rapid increase in human population, tourism, and industry, which have caused increased disturbance by humans and the destruction of the species' natural habitat. Because of these seals' shy nature and sensitivity to human disturbance, they have slowly adapted to try to avoid contact with humans completely within the last century, and, perhaps, even earlier. The coastal caves are, however, dangerous for newborns, and are causes of major mortality among pups when sea storms hit the caves.\n\nThis earless seal's former range extended throughout the Northwest Atlantic Africa, Mediterranean and Black Sea, coastlines, including all offshore islands of the Mediterranean, and into the Atlantic and its islands: Canary, Madeira, Ilhas Desertas, Porto Santo... as far west as the Azores. Vagrants could be found as far south as Gambia and the Cape Verde islands, and as far north as continental Portugal and Atlantic France.\n\nSeveral causes provoked a dramatic population decrease over time: on one hand, commercial hunting (especially during the Roman Empire and Middle Ages) and, during the 20th century, eradication by fishermen, who used to consider it a pest due to the damage the seal causes to fishing nets when it preys on fish caught in them; and, on the other hand, coastal urbanization and pollution.\n\nSome seals have survived in the Sea of Marmara, but the last report of a seal in the Black Sea dates to 1997. Monk seals were present at Snake Island until the 1950s, and several locations such as the and Doğankent were the last known hauling-out sites post-1990.\n\nNowadays, its entire population is estimated to be less than 700 individuals widely scattered, which qualifies this species as endangered. Its current very sparse population is one more serious threat to the species, as it only has two key sites that can be deemed viable. One is the Aegean Sea (250–300 animals in Greece, with the largest concentration of animals in Gyaros island, and some 100 in Turkey); the other important subpopulation is in the Atlantic Ocean, in the Western Saharan portion of Cabo Blanco (around 270 individuals which may support the small, but growing, nucleus in the Desertas Islands – approximately 30-40 individuals). There may be some individuals using coastal areas among other parts of Western Sahara, such as in Cintra Bay.\n\nThese two key sites are virtually in the extreme opposites of the species' distribution range, which makes natural population interchange between them impossible. All the other remaining subpopulations are composed of less than 50 mature individuals, many of them being only loose groups of extremely reduced size – often less than five individuals.\n\nOther remaining populations are in southwestern Turkey and the Ionian Sea (both in the eastern Mediterranean). The species status is virtually moribund in the western Mediterranean, which still holds tiny Moroccan and Algerian populations, associated with rare sightings of vagrants in the Balearic Islands, Sardinia, and other western Mediterranean locations, including Gibraltar.\n\nIn Sardinia the Mediterranean monk seal was last sighted in May 2007 and April 2010. The increase of sightings in Sardinia suggests that the seal occasionally inhabits the Central Eastern Sardinian coasts, preserved since 1998 by the National Park of Golfo of Orosei.\n\nColonies on the Pelagie Islands (Linosa and Lampedusa) were destroyed by fishermen, which likely resulted in local extinction.\nCabo Blanco, in the Atlantic Ocean, is the largest surviving single population of the species, and the only remaining site that still seems to preserve a colony structure. In the summer of 1997, more than 200 animals or two-thirds of its seal population were wiped out within two months, extremely compromising the species' viable population. While opinions on the precise causes of this epidemic remain divided between a morbilivirus or, more likely, a toxic algae bloom, the mass die-off emphasized the precarious status of a species already regarded as critically endangered throughout its range.\n\nNumbers in this all-important location started a slow-paced recovery ever since. A small but incipient (up to 20 animals by 2009) sub-population in the area had started using open beaches. In 2009, for the first time in centuries, a female delivered her pup on the beach (open beaches is the optimal habitat for the survival of pups, but had been abandoned due to human disturbance and persecution in past centuries).\n\nOnly by 2016 the colony had recovered to its previous population (about 300 animals). This was made possible by a recovery plan financed by Spain. Also in 2016, a new record of births was set for the colony (83 pups).\n\nHowever, the threat of a similar incident, which could severely reduce or wipe out the entire population, remains.\n\nIn June 2009, there was a report of a sighting off the island of Giglio, in Italy. \nOn 7 January 2010, fishermen spotted an injured Mediterranean monk seal off the coasts of Tel Aviv, Israel. When zoo veterinarians arrived to help the seal, it had slipped back into the waters. Members of the Israel Marine Mammal Research and Assistance Center arrived at the scene and tried to locate the injured mammal, but with no success. This was the first sighting of the species in the region since Lebanese authorities claimed to have found a population of 10–20 other seals on their coasts 70 years earlier. In addition, the seal was also sighted a couple of weeks later in the northern kibbutz of Rosh Hanikra.\n\nIn April 2010, there was a report of a sighting off the island of Marettimo, in the Egadi Islands off the coast of Italy, in Trapani Province. In November 2010, a Mediterranean monk seal, supposedly aged between 10 and 20, had been spotted in Bodrum, Turkey. On 31 December 2010, the BBC Earth news reported that the MOM Hellenic Society had located a new colony of seals on a remote beach in the Aegean Sea. The exact location was not communicated so as to keep the site protected. The society was appealing to the Greek government to integrate the part of the island on which the seals live into a marine protected area.\n\nOn 8 March 2011, the BBC Earth news reported that a pup seal had been spotted on 7 February while monitoring a seal colony on an island in the southwestern Aegean Sea. Soon after, it showed signs of weakness and it was taken to a rehabilitation centre to try to save it. The aim is to release it back into the wild as soon as it is strong enough. In April 2011, a monk seal was spotted near the Egyptian coast after long absence of the species from the nation.\n\nOn 24 June 2011, the Blue World Institute of Croatia filmed an adult female underwater in the northern Adriatic, off the island of Cres and a specimen of unverified sex on 29 June 2012. On 2 May 2013 a specimen was seen on the southernmost point of Istrian peninsula near the town of Pula. On 9 September 2013, in Pula a male specimen swam to a busy beach and entertained numerous tourists for five minutes before swimming back to the open sea. In summer 2014 sightings in Pula have occurred almost daily and monk seal stayed multiple times on crowded city beaches, sleeping calm for hours just few meters away from humans. To prevent accidents and preserve monk seal, local city council acquired special educational boards and installed on city beaches. Despite clear instructions, an incident occurred with a tourist harassing a seal. The whole event was filmed. Less than a month later on August 25, 2014 this female monk seal was found dead in the Mrtvi Puć bay near Šišan, Croatia. Experts said it was natural death caused by her old age.\n\nIn 2012, a Mediterranean monk seal, was spotted in Gibraltar on the jetty of the private boat owners club at Coaling Island.\n\nIn the week of 22–28 April 2013, what is believed to have been a monk seal was viewed in Tyre, southern Lebanon; photographs have been reported among many local media. A study by the Italian Ministry of the Environment in 2013 confirmed the presence of monk seals in marine protected area in the Egadi Islands. In September and October 2013, there were a number of sightings of an adult pair in waters around RAF Akrotiri in British Sovereign Base waters in Cyprus.\n\nIn November 2014, an adult monk seal was reportedly seen inside the port of Limassol, Cyprus. A female monk seal, called Argiro by the locals, was repeatedly seen on beaches of Samos island in 2014 and 2015, and two were reported in April 2016.\n\nOn 7 April 2015, a large floating \"fish\" was reported near Raouche, Beirut in Lebanon, and collected by a local fisherman. This turned out to be the body of a female monk seal known to have been resident there for some time. Further investigations revealed that she was pregnant with a pup.\n\nOn April 10, 2016, a monk seal was spotted and photographed by a group of foreign exchange students and local bio-engineers in a creek in Manavgat District in Turkey's southern Antalya Province. According to the scientists involved in local projects to protect the animals, this was the first ever documented sighting of a monk seal swimming in a river. Possible reasons for the animal's appearance included better opportunities for hunting, as well as higher salinity levels due to lower water levels.\n\nOn 13 June 2017, a specimen was spotted and photographed by a group of fishermen off the coasts of Tricase in the south of Italy.\n\nDamage inflicted on fishermen's nets and rare attacks on off-shore fish farms in Turkey and Greece are known to have pushed local people towards hunting the Mediterranean monk seal, but mostly out of revenge, rather than population control. Preservation efforts have been put forth by civil organizations, foundations, and universities in both countries since as early as the 1970s. For the past 10 years, many groups have carried out missions to educate locals on damage control and species preservation. Reports of positive results of such efforts exist throughout the area.\n\nIn the Aegean Sea, Greece has allocated a large area for the preservation of the Mediterranean monk seal and its habitat. The Greek Alonissos Marine Park, that extends around the Northern Sporades islands, is the main action ground of the Greek MOm organisation. MOm is greatly involved in raising awareness in the general public, fundraising for the helping of the monk seal preservation cause, in Greece and wherever needed. Greece is currently investigating the possibility of declaring another monk seal breeding site as a national park, and also has integrated some sites in the NATURA 2000 protection scheme. The legislation in Greece is very strict towards seal hunting, and in general, the public is very much aware and supportive of the effort for the preservation of the Mediterranean monk seal.\n\nThe complex politics concerning the covert opposition of the Greek government towards the protection to the monk seals in the eastern Aegean in the late 1970s is described in a book by William Johnson. Oil companies apparently may have been using the monk seal sanctuary project as a stalking horse to encourage greater cooperation between the Greek and Turkish governments as a preliminary to pushing for oil extraction rights in a geopolitically unstable area. According to Johnson, the Greek secret service, the YPEA, were against such moves and sabotaged the project to the detriment of both the seals and conservationists, who, unaware of such covert motivations, sought only to protect the species and its habitat.\n\nOne of the largest groups among the foundations concentrating their efforts towards the preservation of the Mediterranean monk seal is the Mediterranean Seal Research Group (Turkish: \"Akdeniz Foklarını Araştırma Grubu\") operating under the Underwater Research Foundation (Turkish: \"Sualtı Araştırmaları Derneği\") in Turkey (also known as SAD-AFAG). The group has taken initiative in joint preservation efforts together with the Foça municipal officials, as well as phone, fax, and email hotlines for sightings.\n\nPreservation of the species requires both the preservation of land and sea, due to the need for terrestrial haul-out sites and caves or caverns for the animal to rest and reproduce. Even though responsible scuba diving instructors hesitate to make trips to known seal caves, the rumor of a seal sighting quickly becomes a tourist attraction for many. Irresponsible scuba diving trips scare the seals away from caves which could become habitation for the species.\n\nUnder the auspices of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS), also known as the Bonn Convention, the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) concerning Conservation Measures for the Eastern Atlantic Populations of the Mediterranean Monk Seal was concluded and came into effect on 18 October 2007. The MoU covers four range States (Mauritania, Morocco, Portugal and Spain), all of which have signed, and aims at providing a legal and institutional framework for the implementation of the Action Plan for the Recovery of the Mediterranean Monk Seal in the Eastern Atlantic.\n\nAs there are indications of small population increases in the subpopulations, as of 2015, the Mediterranean monk seal's IUCN conservation status has been updated from critically endangered to endangered in keeping with the IUCN's speed-of-decline criteria, with a recommendation for re-assessment in 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "966493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=966493", "title": "Mountain tapir", "text": "Mountain tapir\n\nThe mountain tapir or woolly tapir (\"Tapirus pinchaque\") is the second-smallest of the five species of tapir, only the recently described \"Tapirus kabomani\" being smaller, and is the only one to live outside of tropical rainforests in the wild. It is most easily distinguished from other tapirs by its thick woolly coat and white lips.\n\nThe species name comes from the term \"La Pinchaque\", an imaginary beast said to inhabit the same regions as the mountain tapir.\n\nMountain tapirs are black or very dark brown, with occasional pale hairs flecked in amongst the darker fur. The fur becomes noticeably paler on the underside, around the anal region, and on the cheeks. A distinct white band runs around the lips, although it may vary in extent, and there are usually also white bands along the upper surface of the ears. In adults, the rump has paired patches of bare skin, which may help to indicate sexual maturity. The eyes are initially blue, but change to a pale brown as the animal ages. Unlike all other species of tapir, the fur is long and woolly, especially on the underside and flanks, reaching or more in some individuals.\nAdults are usually around in length and in height at the shoulder. They typically weigh between , and while the sexes are of similar size, females tend to be around heavier than the males.\n\nLike the other types of tapir, they have small, stubby tails and long, flexible proboscises. They have four toes on each front foot and three toes on each back foot, each with large nails and supported by a padded sole. A patch of bare skin, pale pink or grey in colour, extends just above each toe.\n\nFemale mountain tapirs have a 30-day estrous cycle, and typically breed only once every other year. During courtship, the male chases the female and uses soft bites, grunts, and squeals to get her attention, while the female responds with frequent squealing. After a gestation period of 392 or 393 days, the female gives birth to a single young; multiple births are very rare.\n\nNewborn mountain tapirs weigh about and have a brown coat with yellowish-white spots and stripes. Like adults, baby mountain tapirs have thick, woolly fur to help keep them warm. Weaning begins at around three months of age. The immature coloration fades after about a year, but the mother continues to care for her young for around 18 months. Mountain tapirs reach sexual maturity at age three and have lived up to 27 years in captivity.\n\nTapirs are herbivores, and eat a wide range of plants, including leaves, grasses, and bromeliads. In the wild, particularly common foods include lupins, \"Gynoxys\", ferns, and umbrella plants. It also seeks out natural salt licks to satisfy its need for essential minerals.\n\nMountain tapirs are also important seed dispersers within their environments, and have been identified as a keystone species of the high Andes. A relatively high proportion of plant seeds eaten by mountain tapirs successfully germinate in their dung, probably due to a relatively inefficient digestive system and a tendency to defecate near water. Although a wide range of seeds are dispersed in this manner, those of the endangered wax palm seem to rely almost exclusively on mountain tapirs for dispersal, and this plant, along with the highland lupine, declines dramatically whenever the animal is extirpated from an area.\n\nPredators of mountain tapirs include cougars, spectacled bears, and, less commonly, jaguars.\n\nWhen around other members of their species, mountain tapirs communicate through high-pitched whistles, and the males occasionally fight over estrous females by trying to bite each other’s rear legs. But for the most part, mountain tapirs are shy and lead solitary lives, spending their waking hours foraging for food on their own along well-worn tapir paths. Despite their bulk, they travel easily through dense foliage, up the steep slopes of their hilly habitats, and in water, where they often wallow and swim.\n\nMountain tapirs are generally crepuscular, although they are more active during the day than other species of tapirs. They sleep from roughly midnight to dawn, with an additional resting period during the hottest time of the day for a few hours after noon, and prefer to bed down in areas with heavy vegetation cover. Mountain tapirs forage for tender plants to eat. When trying to access high plants, they will sometimes rear up on their hind legs to reach and then grab with their prehensile snouts. Though their eyesight is lacking, they get by on their keen senses of smell and taste, as well as the sensitive bristles on their proboscises.\n\nMales will frequently mark their territory with dung piles, urine, and rubbings on trees, and females will sometimes engage in these behaviors, as well. The territories of individuals usually overlap, with each animal claiming over , and females tend to have larger territories than males.\n\nThe mountain tapir is found in the cloud forests and \"páramo\" of the Eastern and Central Cordilleras mountains in Colombia, Ecuador, and the far north of Peru. Its range may once have extended as far as western Venezuela, but it has long been extirpated from that region. It commonly lives at elevations between , and since at this altitude temperatures routinely fall below freezing, the animal’s woolly coat is essential. During the wet season, mountain tapirs tend to inhabit the forests of the Andes, while during the drier months, they move to the \"páramo\", where fewer biting insects pester them.\n\nThe mountain tapir has no recognised subspecies.\n\nIn Peru, it is protected in the National Sanctuary Tabaconas Namballe. The species needs continuous stretches of cloud forest and \"páramo\", rather than isolated patches, to successfully breed and maintain a healthy population, and this obstacle is a major concern for conservationists trying to protect the endangered animal.\n\nThe mountain tapir is the least specialised of the living species of tapir, and has changed the least since the origin of the genus in the early Miocene. Genetic studies have shown that mountain tapirs diverged from its closest relative, the Brazilian tapir, in the late Pliocene, around three million years ago. This would have been shortly after the formation of the Panamanian Isthmus, allowing the ancestors of the two living species to migrate southward from their respective points of origin in Central America as part of the Great American Interchange. However, the modern species most likely originated in the Andes, some time after this early migration.\n\nThe mountain tapir is the most threatened of the five \"Tapirus\" species, classified as \"Endangered\" by the IUCN in 1996. According to the IUCN, there was a 20% chance the species could have been extinct as early as 2014. Due to the fragmentation of its surviving range, populations may already have fallen below the level required to sustain genetic diversity.\n\nHistorically, mountain tapirs have been hunted for their meat and hides, while the toes, proboscises, and intestines are used in local folk medicines and as aphrodisiacs. Since they will eat crops when available, they are also sometimes killed by farmers protecting their produce. Today, deforestation for agriculture and mining, and poaching are the main threats to the species.\n\nThere may be only 2,500 individuals left in the wild today, making it all the more difficult for scientists to study them. Also, very few individuals are found in zoos. Only a handful of breeding pairs of this species exists in captivity in the world — at the Los Angeles Zoo, the Cheyenne Mountain Zoo in Colorado Springs, and, as of 2006, the San Francisco Zoo. In Canada, a mating pair is kept in Langley, BC, at the Mountain View Conservation and Breeding Centre. The nine individuals in captivity are descendants of just two founder animals. This represents a distinct lack of genetic diversity and may not bode well for their continued existence in captivity. The three zoos that house this species are working to ensure that the remaining wild populations of mountain tapirs are protected. Two mountain tapirs were sent from San Francisco Zoo to Cali Zoo, making them be the only captive tapirs in their natural home range; also, one male is kept in Pitalito, Huila, and it is possible to move it to the Cali Zoo to make a breeding pair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1060624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1060624", "title": "Newton's rings", "text": "Newton's rings\n\nNewton's rings is a phenomenon in which an interference pattern is created by the reflection of light between two surfaces—a spherical surface and an adjacent touching flat surface. It is named for Isaac Newton, who first studied the effect in 1717. When viewed with monochromatic light, Newton's rings appear as a series of concentric, alternating bright and dark rings centered at the point of contact between the two surfaces. When viewed with white light, it forms a concentric ring pattern of rainbow colors, because the different wavelengths of light interfere at different thicknesses of the air layer between the surfaces.\n\nThe phenomenon was first described by Robert Hooke in his 1664 book \"Micrographia\", although its name derives from the physicist Isaac Newton, who was the first to analyze it.\n\nThe pattern is created by placing a very slightly convex curved glass on an optical flat glass. The two pieces of glass make contact only at the center, at other points there is a slight air gap between the two surfaces, increasing with radial distance from the center. The diagram at right shows a small section of the two pieces, with the gap increasing right to left. Light from a monochromatic (single color) source shines through the top piece and reflects from both the bottom surface of the top piece and the top surface of the optical flat, and the two reflected rays combine and superpose. However the ray reflecting off the bottom surface travels a longer path. The additional path length is equal to twice the gap between the surfaces. In addition the ray reflecting off the bottom piece of glass undergoes a 180° phase reversal, while the internal reflection of the other ray from the underside of the top glass causes no phase reversal. The brightness of the reflected light depends on the difference in the path length of the two rays:\nThis interference results in a pattern of bright and dark lines or bands called \"interference fringes\" being observed on the surface. These are similar to contour lines on maps, revealing differences in the thickness of the air gap. The gap between the surfaces is constant along a fringe. The path length difference between two adjacent bright or dark fringes is one wavelength \"λ\" of the light, so the difference in the gap between the surfaces is one-half wavelength. Since the wavelength of light is so small, this technique can measure very small departures from flatness. For example, the wavelength of red light is about 700 nm, so using red light the difference in height between two fringes is half that, or 350 nm, about 1/100 the diameter of a human hair. Since the gap between the glasses increases radially from the center, the interference fringes form concentric rings. For glass surfaces that are not spherical, the fringes will not be rings but will have other shapes.\n\nFor illumination from above, with a dark center, the radius of the \"N\" bright ring is given by\nwhere \n\"N\" is the bright-ring number, \"R\" is the radius of curvature of the glass lens the light is passing through, and \"λ\" is the wavelength of the light.\n\nThe above formula is also applicable for dark rings for the ring pattern obtained by transmitted light.\n\nConsider light incident on the flat plane of the convex lens that is situated on the optically flat glass surface below. The light passes through the glass lens until it comes to the glass-air boundary, where the transmitted light goes from a higher refractive index (\"n\") value to a lower \"n\" value. The transmitted light passes through this boundary with no phase change. The reflected light (about 4% of the total) also has no phase change. The light that is transmitted into the air travels a distance, \"t\", before it is reflected at the flat surface below; reflection at the air-glass boundary causes a half-cycle phase shift because the air has a lower refractive index than the glass. The reflected light at the lower surface returns a distance of (again) \"t\" and passes back into the lens. The two reflected rays will interfere according to the total phase change caused by the extra path length \"2t\" and by the half-cycle phase change induced in reflection at the lower surface. When the distance \"2t\" is less than a wavelength, the waves interfere destructively, hence the central region of the pattern is dark.\n\nA similar analysis for illumination of the device from below instead of from above shows that in that case the central portion of the pattern is bright, not dark. (Compare the given example pictures to see this difference.)\n\nGiven the radial distance of a bright ring, \"r\", and a radius of curvature of the lens, \"R\", the air gap between the glass surfaces, \"t\", is given to a good approximation by\n\nwhere the effect of viewing the pattern at an angle oblique to the incident rays is ignored.\n\nThe phenomenon of Newton's rings is explained on the same basis as thin-film interference, including effects such as \"rainbows\" seen in thin films of oil on water or in soap bubbles. The difference is that here the \"thin film\" is a thin layer of air.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1690921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1690921", "title": "Nursing process", "text": "Nursing process\n\nThe nursing process is a modified scientific method. Nursing practise was first described as a four-stage nursing process by Ida Jean Orlando in 1958. It should not be confused with nursing theories or health informatics. The diagnosis phase was added later.\n\nThe nursing process uses clinical judgement to strike a balance of epistemology between personal interpretation and research evidence in which critical thinking may play a part to categorize the clients issue and course of action. Nursing offers diverse patterns of knowing. Nursing knowledge has embraced pluralism since the 1970s.\n\nSome authors refer to a mind map or abductive reasoning as a potential alternative strategy for organizing care. Intuition plays a part for experienced nurses.\n\nThe nursing process is goal-oriented method of caring that provides a framework to nursing care. It involves seven major steps:\n\n\nAccording to some theorists, this seven-steps description of the nursing process is outdated and misrepresents nursing as linear and atomic.\n\nThe nurse completes an holistic nursing assessment of the needs of the individual/family/community, regardless of the reason for the encounter. The nurse collects subjective data and objective data using a nursing framework, such as Marjory Gordon's functional health patterns.\n\nNursing assessments provide the starting point for determining nursing diagnoses. It is vital that a recognized nursing assessment framework is used in practice to identify the patient's* problems, risks and outcomes for enhancing health. The use of an evidence-based nursing framework such as Gordon's Functional Health Pattern Assessment should guide assessments that support nurses in determination of NANDA-I nursing diagnoses. For accurate determination of nursing diagnoses, a useful, evidence-based assessment framework is best practice.\n\n\nNursing diagnoses represent the nurse's clinical judgment about actual or potential health problems/life process occurring with the individual, family, group or community. The accuracy of the nursing diagnosis is validated when a nurse is able to clearly identify and link to the defining characteristics, related factors and/or risk factors found within the patients assessment. Multiple nursing diagnoses may be made for one client.\n\nIn agreement with the client, the nurse addresses each of the problems identified in the diagnosing phase. When there are multiple nursing diagnoses to be addressed, the nurse prioritizes which diagnoses will receive the most attention first according to their severity and potential for causing more serious harm. For each problem a measurable goal/outcome is set. For each goal/outcome, the nurse selects nursing interventions that will help achieve the goal/outcome. A common method of formulating the expected outcomes is to use the evidence-based Nursing Outcomes Classification to allow for the use of standardized language which improves consistency of terminology, definition and outcome measures. The interventions used in the Nursing Interventions Classification again allow for the use of standardized language which improves consistency of terminology, definition and ability to identify nursing activities, which can also be linked to nursing workload and staffing indices. The result of this phase is a nursing care plan.\n\nThe nurse implements the nursing care plan, performing the determined interventions that were selected to help meet the goals/outcomes that were established. Delegated tasks and the monitoring of them is included here as well.\n\nActivities\n\nThe nurse evaluates the progress toward the goals/outcomes identified in the previous phases. If progress towards the goal is slow, or if regression has occurred, the nurse must change the plan of care accordingly. Conversely, if the goal has been achieved then the care can cease. New problems may be identified at this stage, and thus the process will start all over again.\n\nThe nursing process is a cyclical and ongoing process that can end at any stage if the problem is solved. The nursing process exists for every problem that the individual/family/community has. The nursing process not only focuses on ways to improve physical needs, but also on social and emotional needs as well.\n\nThe entire process is recorded or documented in order to inform all members of the health care team.\n\nThe PIE method is a system for documenting actions, especially in the field of nursing. The name comes from the acronym \"PIE\", meaning Problem, Intervention, Evaluation.\n\n"}
{"id": "21145044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21145044", "title": "Oman Natural History Museum", "text": "Oman Natural History Museum\n\nThe Natural History Museum of Oman is a natural history museum, located at the Ministry of Heritage and Culture complex, Al Khuwair, opposite the Zawawi Mosque in Muscat, Oman. \n\nThe museum opened on 20 December 1985, and has detailed coverage of Oman's flora and fauna, with displays on indigenous mammals, insects, and birds and botanical gardens. One of the highlights of the museum is the whale hall: it houses the huge skeleton of a sperm whale, which was washed up on the Omani coastline in the 1986.The museum contains marine and animal fossils and ancient mammals such as monkeys and elephants primitive, teeth Deinotherium and Gomphotherium, and stuffed animals:\nArabian leopard. Caracal. Arabian Oryx. Arabian wolf. Arab Red fox. Ghazal skeleton Arabic. Ibex Arabic. Flamengo. Birds. Crow. Owl. Reptiles. Snakes' lizards. Snails and shells.\n\nIn January 2014, the Ministry of Heritage and Culture announced plans to build new premises for the museum, the project will consist of three floors with a gross area rated to 5,000 square meters. The first floor is specialised for exhibiting marine environments such as sandy coasts, mangroves, rocky coasts and coral reef environments as well as the geological history of the Sultanate’s seas while the second floor displays wild environments such as mammals, insects, birds, valleys, caves and water springs in addition to the geological history of Oman.\n\nThe third floor is specialised for showcasing information about the solar system, planets, space and meteors. The museum includes lectures halls and temporary exhibitions. Additionally, it has well equipped educational halls that will be used for workshops and educational programmes. The museum includes five fundamental scientific sections specialised for research, records, studies, and archives works.\n"}
{"id": "53424044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53424044", "title": "Otto Metzger", "text": "Otto Metzger\n\nOtto Metzger was a German-British engineer, and inventor of an impact-extrusion process for forming seamless zinc and brass cans.\n\nOtto Metzger was the son of Jewish parents: Ludwig Metzger (18521931) and Gretchen (Guldmann) (18641943).\n\nOtto Metzger grew up in Nuremberg, Germany, where he met his wife, Sophie (Josephthal) (18941998).\n\nOtto Metzger had previously served as a reserve officer in the Bavarian Engineers and so, at the outbreak of the First World War, he was immediately conscripted. He served in the Imperial German Army on the Western Front, and rose to the rank of lieutenant, and was awarded Iron Cross medals (1st and 2nd class).\n\nAfter his early schooling at the \"Neues Gymnasium\" in Nuremberg, he continued his studies at the \"Technical University of Munich\", and obtained a Diplom-Ingenieur degree in mechanical engineering at the \"Berlin-Charlottenburg Technical Academy\".\n\nOtto Metzger then spent several years travelling and gaining engineering experience both in Germany, and also in Austria, France, Britain, USA and in Mexico.\n\nOn his return to Nuremberg in 1912, he took a post with a local metals company, \"Schmidtmer & Co\", first as an engineer, and then becoming a partner. After the First World War, he returned to his previous work; the company (then called \"Süddeutsche Metallindustrie\") was taken over by \"\" in 1926, and in 1930 became a subsidiary of the conglomerate \"Metallindustrie AG\". He was to stay with that company in various engineering and management positions until 1938, during which time he developed and patented inventions related to impact-extrusion of zinc, brass and other non-ferrous metals. Typical products for these patents were seamless cans for zinc-carbon batteries, brass shell casings, and containers for foodstuff and for drinks.\n\nStarting in about 1933, the persecution of Jews in Nazi Germany intensified.\n\nThis reached a climax on 9November 1938, when Jews were attacked in their homes and businesses during the night of Kristallnacht. Otto Metzger was returning from Britain, where he had just concluded a licensing agreement with a British company, \"Enfield Rolling Mills Ltd\", to use his patented impact-extrusion technology. He was arrested by the Gestapo at the German border, on his way home to Nuremberg, and imprisoned in the Dachau concentration camp. Meanwhile his wife, having had their home and belongings invaded and smashed by Nazi stormtroopers and having spent the night wandering the streets of Nuremberg, waited in vain for Otto’s return.\n\nOtto Metzger was released from Dachau on 15December 1938, and returned home to Nuremberg. By late-March 1939, he had managed to obtain the necessary travel documents to leave Germany, and he and his wife left for Britain. Otto had been unable to obtain documents for his mother Gretchen (who by that time was aged 74); she remained in Nuremberg, and was transported by the Nazis to Theresienstadt concentration camp, where she died in 1943.\n\nOn arrival in Britain in early 1939, Otto Metzger was immediately employed by \"Enfield Rolling Mills Ltd\". He stayed with the company until his retirement in 1958, rising to the position of Managing Director.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Otto Metzger was not interned as an enemy alien, as were most German immigrants; the British Government valued his expertise for the war effort.\n\nOtto Metzger died of a heart-attack in 1961. Otto and his wife Sophie are commemorated by adjacent rose bushes, planted in the Willesden Jewish Cemetery in London.\n"}
{"id": "4521723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4521723", "title": "Principles of Philosophy", "text": "Principles of Philosophy\n\nPrinciples of Philosophy () is a book by René Descartes. In essence it is a synthesis of the \"Discourse on Method\" and \"Meditations on First Philosophy\" It was written in Latin, published in 1644 and dedicated to Elisabeth of Bohemia, with whom Descartes had a long-standing friendship. A French version (\"Les Principes de la Philosophie\") followed in 1647. It set forth the principles of nature—the Laws of Physics—as Descartes viewed them. Most notably, it set forth the principle that in the absence of external forces, an object's motion will be uniform and in a straight line. Newton borrowed this principle from Descartes and included it in his own \"Principia\"; to this day, it is still generally referred to as Newton's First Law of Motion. The book was primarily intended to replace the Aristotelian curriculum then used in French and British universities. The work provides a systematic statement of his metaphysics and natural philosophy, and represents the first truly comprehensive, mechanistic account of the universe.\n\nDescartes asked Abbot Claude Picot to translate his Latin \"Principia Philosophiæ\" into French. For this edition he wrote a preface, disguised as a letter to the translator, whose title is \"Letter of the author to the translator of the book, that may be used as a preface\". This was published in 1647, a date already in the maturity final period of his life. In this writing Descartes pours some reflexions about his idea of wisdom and philosophy. Its content may be summarized as follows.\n\nConcept of philosophy. Philosophy is the study of \"wisdom\", understood as the ability to conduct the human activities; and also as the perfect knowledge of all the things that a man can know for the direction of his life, maintenance of his health, and knowledge of the arts. Only God is perfectly wise, and the man is more or less wise, in proportion to the knowledge he has of the most important truths.\n\nThe degrees of knowledge. Descartes identifies four degrees of knowledge, he names \"common\", and a fifth one he designates as \"higher\". The first degree consists on clear and evident notions that can be acquired without need of any meditation. The second degree is all that is learned by means of the senses. The third comprises what we learn when talking with other men. The fourth consists on what we can learn from the writings of men capable of giving good instructions.\n\nHigher wisdom. There have been great men in all times that have sought after a better and more secure wisdom, a \"fifth degree\" of knowledge. This has consisted on the search for the \"first causes\", and those that have followed this pursuit have been named \"philosophers\", but he thinks that no one has been successful yet.\n\nDoubt and certainty. Since Plato and Aristotle there has been a discussion about doubt and certainty. Those that have favored doubt have arrived to extremes of doubting even the most evident things, and those that have sought certainty have relied excessively on senses. Though it is true that it has been accepted that the senses may mislead us, according to Descartes nobody had yet expressed that the truth can not be based on the senses, but in the \"understanding\", when it is founded on \"evident perceptions\".\n\nMeditations on first philosophy. The search for the first causes, or basic truths, as undertaken by Descartes is contained in this work. It explains the metaphysical principles on which to build the rest of knowledge.\n\nThe tree of philosophy. The philosophy is like a tree, whose roots are the \"metaphysics\", its trunk the \"physics\", and the branches the rest of sciences, mainly \"medicine\", \"mechanics\", and \"morals\" that is the last level of wisdom. In the same way that the tree has its fruits in its outer parts, the usefulness of philosophy is also contained in the parts that are learnt at the end.\n\nA copy of Descartes' \"Principia philosophiæ\" dated 1656 is owned by the Tom Slick rare book collection at the Southwest Research Institute in Texas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7497490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7497490", "title": "Rheoscope", "text": "Rheoscope\n\nA rheoscope is an instrument for detecting or measuring the viscosity of a fluid. In the study of blood flow, a rheoscope is used to observe and measure the deformation of blood cells subject to different levels of fluid shear stress. \n"}
{"id": "53843959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53843959", "title": "Robert William Bilger", "text": "Robert William Bilger\n\nRobert William Bilger, from the University of Sydney, was awarded the status of Fellow in the American Physical Society, after being nominated by the Division of Fluid Dynamics in 2002, for \"outstanding contributions to knowledge of turbulent reactive flows through insightful experiments, theory and modelling, especially for elucidating the fundamental processes in turbulent combustion and for the development of the conditional moment closure.\"\n"}
{"id": "16577671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16577671", "title": "SCICEX", "text": "SCICEX\n\nSCICEX, standing for \"Scientific Ice Expeditions\", was a five-year (1995–1999) scientific research program involving a collaboration between the U.S. Navy and academic researchers from a variety of different universities. The object of study was geophysical and oceanological conditions in the Arctic Ocean. The Navy made available a nuclear submarine for each research cruise.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853549", "title": "Signy Research Station", "text": "Signy Research Station\n\nSigny Research Station is an Antarctic research base on Signy Island, run by the British Antarctic Survey.\n\nSigny was first occupied in 1947 when a meteorological station was established in Factory Cove above the old whaling station. It was the second research base on the South Orkney Islands (after the Argentine Orcadas Base in 1903). In 1955, a new hut, Tønsberg House was built on the site of the whaling station. In 1963, it was turned into a laboratory for biological research. Initially operated year-round, since 1995/6 the station has been open from November to April each year (southern hemisphere summer).\n\nToday, the base has four buildings with capacity for 8 people. The main building, Sorlle House (named after the whaling captain who himself named Signy Island), provides living accommodation and laboratories. The other buildings are for storage and provision of power and water services. There are also four small huts around the island.\n\nMarine and terrestrial biology is carried out at Signy, particularly looking at the effects of climate change on the southern ocean ecosystems. Three species of penguin (Adélie, chinstrap and gentoo) are monitored at the base.\n\nTo continue an original time series of visual sea ice observations after the station became summer-only, an automated sea ice camera now operates all year around, providing a continuous record of sea ice extent near the station for over 50 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1118840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1118840", "title": "Soil classification", "text": "Soil classification\n\nSoil classification deals with the systematic categorization of soils based on distinguishing characteristics as well as criteria that dictate choices in use.\n\nSoil classification is a dynamic subject, from the structure of the system itself, to the definitions of classes, and finally in the application in the field. Soil classification can be approached from the perspective of soil as a material and soil as a resource.\n\nEngineers, typically geotechnical engineers, classify soils according to their engineering properties as they relate to use for foundation support or building material. Modern engineering classification systems are designed to allow an easy transition from field observations to basic predictions of soil engineering properties and behaviors.\n\nThe most common engineering classification system for soils in North America is the Unified Soil Classification System (USCS). The USCS has three major classification groups: (1) coarse-grained soils (e.g. sands and gravels); (2) fine-grained soils (e.g. silts and clays); and (3) highly organic soils (referred to as \"peat\"). The USCS further subdivides the three major soil classes for clarification. It distinguishes sands from gravels by grain size, and further classifying some as \"well-graded\" and the rest as \"poorly-graded\". Silts and clays are distinguished by the soils' Atterberg limits, and separates \"high-plasticity\" from \"low-plasticity\" soils as well. Moderately organic soils are considered subdivisions of silts and clays, and are distinguished from inorganic soils by changes in their plasticity properties (and Atterberg limits) on drying. The European soil classification system (ISO 14688) is very similar, differing primarily in coding and in adding an \"intermediate-plasticity\" classification for silts and clays, and in minor details.\n\nOther engineering soil classification systems in the United States include the AASHTO Soil Classification System, which classifies soils and aggregates relative to their suitability for pavement construction, and the Modified Burmister system, which works similarly to the USCS, but includes more coding for various soil properties.\n\nA full geotechnical engineering soil description will also include other properties of the soil including color, in-situ moisture content, in-situ strength, and somewhat more detail about the material properties of the soil than is provided by the USCS code. The USCS and additional engineering description is standardized in ASTM D 2487.\n\nFor soil resources, experience has shown that a natural system approach to classification, i.e. grouping soils by their intrinsic property (soil morphology), behaviour, or genesis, results in classes that can be interpreted for many diverse uses. Differing concepts of pedogenesis, and differences in the significance of morphological features to various land uses can affect the classification approach. Despite these differences, in a well-constructed system, classification criteria group similar concepts so that interpretations do not vary widely. This is in contrast to a technical system approach to soil classification, where soils are grouped according to their fitness for a specific use and their edaphic characteristics.\n\nNatural system approaches to soil classification, such as the French Soil Reference System (Référentiel pédologique français) are based on presumed soil genesis. Systems have developed, such as USDA soil taxonomy and the World Reference Base for Soil Resources, which use taxonomic criteria involving soil morphology and laboratory tests to inform and refine hierarchical classes.\nAnother approach is numerical classification, also called ordination, where soil individuals are grouped by multivariate statistical methods such as cluster analysis. This produces natural groupings without requiring any inference about soil genesis.\n\nIn soil survey, as practiced in the United States, soil classification usually means criteria based on soil morphology in addition to characteristics developed during soil formation. Criteria are designed to guide choices in land use and soil management. As indicated, this is a hierarchical system that is a hybrid of both \"natural\" and objective criteria. USDA soil taxonomy provides the core criteria for differentiating soil map units. This is a substantial revision of the 1938 USDA soil taxonomy which was a strictly natural system. The USDA classification was originally developed by Guy Donald Smith, former director of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's soil survey investigations. Soil taxonomy based soil map units are additionally sorted into classes based on technical classification systems. Land Capability Classes, hydric soil, and prime farmland are some examples. \n\nIn addition to scientific soil classification systems, there are also vernacular soil classification systems. Folk taxonomies have been used for millennia, while scientifically based systems are relatively recent developments.\n\nThe US Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) requires the classification of soils to protect workers from injury when working in excavations and trenches. OSHA uses 3 soil classifications plus one for rock, based primarily on strength but also other factors which affect the stability of cut slopes:\n\n\nEach of the soil classifications has implications for the way the excavation must be made or the protections (sloping, shoring, shielding, etc.) that must be provided to protect workers from collapse of the excavated bank.\n\n\n\n\n\nTechnical soil classification systems focus on representing some specific facet or quality of the soil, rather than a direct pedogenetic classification. Such technical classifications are developed with specific applications in mind, such as soil-water relationships, land quality assessment or geotechnical engineering.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31723519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31723519", "title": "Soviet urban planning ideologies of the 1920s", "text": "Soviet urban planning ideologies of the 1920s\n\nDuring the 1920s, Soviet urban planning ideologies established along two competing lines: the urbanist and disurbanist schools. Whilst the proposed form of the city differed between the two ideologies, their visions of social organization for communal living overlapped. \n\nIn the decades before the formation of the Soviet Union, Tsarist Russia had experienced a rapid period of industrialisation and urbanisation, tripling in size between 1850 and 1914. At the 1917 October Revolution, the new State inherited overcrowded cities characterised by poor sanitation and disease, and class divide.\n\nThe 1917 revolution brought Marxist attitudes that rural life was backward and resulted in inequality. Such ideals required the distinction between rural and urban be abolished so as to raise the population to a common standard of living. All land was nationalised and socialised, and on 20 August 1918 all urban property was transferred by decree to the State or local authorities. Houses and apartments once belonging to the bourgeoisie were subdivided to provide accommodation for the proletariat, providing some initial relief to overcrowding. \n\nThe collapse of the old spatial order required that new planning approaches to the city be created. Whilst the economic and labour demands of World War I and the ongoing Civil War meant that the implementation of physical urban outcomes were prevented, a debate as to the desired form the socialist city was initiated. The debate continued throughout the 1920s, with two broad opposing schools of thought emerging: the urbanists, and the disurbanists.\n\nThe urbanist school was led by Leonid Sabsovich, and included significant architects of the time including the brothers Viktor, Leonid and Alexander Vesnin, and the brothers Panteleymon and Ilya Golosov. They opposed the expansion of existing cities and instead advocated for a partial decentralisation to a system of self-contained, compact centres located around industry, of a fixed population of approximately 50,000 people.\n\nThese new cities would embody strict land-use zoning, development of both housing and industry, walkable journeys to work, green spaces and leisure facilities, and a non-commercial centre. Both Bater and French acknowledge the influence of the Garden city movement on the concept, though the degree is debated.\n\nSuch a city would break down distinctions between the agriculturalist and proletarian, and dissolve the nuclear family to create a completely communal way of life. Key to the concept was the creation of communal houses, each accommodating two to three thousand people in separate sleeping units – ‘cells’ of 5 to 6 square metres each. All other activities, including kitchens, eating halls, crèches and kindergartens, would be accommodated in communal facilities attached to or nearby the communal house. An extreme example was Ivan Kuznin’s proposal in which the day for each age group would be ordered with precisely regulated timing for each action, such as waking up, washing, dressing, walking to dining hall.\n\nDesign competitions for communal houses include Kharkiv in 1924-5, Moscow in 1925-6 and Leningrad in 1930.\n\nThe disurbanist school was led by the theorists M. Okhitovich and M. Ginsburg. In contrast to the urbanists, the disurbanists saw the achievement of the Marxist goal of the dissolution of the difference between town and country as the total abolition of the traditional concept of the town. They proposed that settlement be dispersed across the whole of the Soviet Union in the form of continuous ribbon developments. Individual dwellings would be distributed along roads in natural and rural surroundings, but within easy reach of communal dining and recreation amenities. Employment centres would be located at road junctions, with bus services transporting workers from their houses. Whilst individual living space would be private, the disurbanists proposed a communal lifestyle similar to that proposed by the urbanists.\n\nProposals put forward by the disurbanists included Okhitovich’s 1930 plan for Magnitogorsk which consisted of eight 25km long ribbons converging on a metallurgical plant. Ginsberg imagined that Moscow’s population be emptied and resettled in long linear zones of communal houses through forests, serviced by bus stations and zones of recreation and service amenities at regular intervals.\n\nWhilst many proposals were put forward by both the urbanists and disurbanists schools of thought, very few were actually implemented. French argues that the theoreticians failed to understand the social working of groups. The majority of the working class rejected the idea of the collective dwelling and Stalin being a political realist saw the proposals as too utopian - dangerous experiments that could be economically crippling. The planning ideas of the urbanists and disurbanists were subsequently abandoned with the State reverting to classicism.\n\nUrban planning in communist countries\n"}
{"id": "34265726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34265726", "title": "Synge's world function", "text": "Synge's world function\n\nIn general relativity, Synge's world function is an example of a bitensor, i.e. a tensorial function of pairs of points in the spacetime. Let formula_1 be two points in spacetime, and suppose formula_2 belongs to a convex normal neighborhood of formula_2 so that there exists a unique geodesic formula_4 from formula_2 to formula_6, up to the affine parameter formula_7. Suppose formula_8 and formula_9. Then Synge's world function is defined as:\nwhere formula_11 is the tangent vector to the affinely parametrized geodesic formula_4. That is, formula_13 is half the square of the geodesic length from formula_2 to formula_6. Synge's world function is well-defined, since the integral above is invariant under reparametrization. In particular, for Minkowski spacetime, the Synge's world function simplifies to half the spacetime interval between the two points:\n\n"}
{"id": "41944206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41944206", "title": "Taishan Station (Antarctica)", "text": "Taishan Station (Antarctica)\n\nTaishan Station () is the fourth of four Chinese research stations in Antarctica.\n\nOfficially opened on February 8, 2014, it is the fourth Chinese research station in Antarctica following Great Wall, Zhongshan and Kunlun stations.\n\nThe site is located 2,621 m above sea level in Princess Elizabeth Land, 522 km and 600 km to Zhongshan and Kunlun stations respectively. One of its function is to a facilitate a relay point between the two stations.\n\nThe construction started on December 26, 2013. The station's main building covers an area of 410 m², together with the auxiliary building covering 590 m², provide the living and researching area for 20 people during the Antarctic summer.\n\n"}
{"id": "12152443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12152443", "title": "The Improving State of the World", "text": "The Improving State of the World\n\nThe Improving State of the World: Why We're Living Longer, Healthier, More Comfortable Lives On a Cleaner Planet () is a 2007 book by Indur M. Goklany, published by the Cato Institute. As per the title, it argues that the state of the world and humanity is rapidly improving.\n\nThe book lists many supporting statistics:\n\nA common perception is that such progress from economic growth and technology is unsustainable due to worsening environmental problems. The book argues that this is wrong. In the early stages of economic and technological development environmental impact does increase. Improving access to factors such as food, shelter, and electricity is seen as more important than the environment. As development continues and these problems are tackled, the environmental impact becomes a higher priority, and then steps are taken to reduce it. This pattern can be seen for many environmental indicators, such as air quality, availability of safe water, sanitation, and DDT and PCB residues in human tissues, which initially declined with increasing development but have more recently improved.\n\nOn the other hand, \"The reality ... is that the fight over environmental regulation, at least in the United States, was -- and remains -- a fierce one and that environmental skeptics and businesses have done their best to prevent regulations such as the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts from ever becoming law. It is also the case that without those regulations, the 'cleaner planet' Goklany sees today would not exist... The point is that far from being the inevitable product of a strong economy, environmental improvement is often the result of political struggles that could very easily have gone the other way.\" says James Surowiecki in his review of the book.\n\nGoklany in a reply stated \"I am no more convinced than he is about the inevitability of progress\" and that the book had stated \"a democratic society, because it has the political means to do so, will translate its desire for a cleaner environment into laws, either because cleanup is not voluntary or rapid enough, or because of sheer symbolism. The wealthier such a society, the more affordable -- and more demanding -- its laws.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "72171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72171", "title": "Time control", "text": "Time control\n\nA time control is a mechanism in the tournament play of almost all two-player board games so that each round of the match can finish in a timely way and the tournament can proceed. Time controls are typically enforced by means of a game clock, where the times below are given per player. Time pressure (or time trouble or \"zeitnot\") is the situation of having very little time on a player's clock to complete their remaining moves.\n\nIn the case of chess, the World Chess Federation FIDE has a single, classical time control for most of its major events: 90 minutes for the first 40 moves, followed by 30 minutes for the rest of the game, with an addition of 30 seconds per move starting from move one. The Candidates tournament and the World Championship are currently played at 100 minutes for 40 moves, followed by 50 minutes for 20 moves, followed by 15 minutes for the rest of the game, with a 30-second increment starting from move one. Also, FIDE formulates different time controls for fast chess.\n\nThe amount of time given to each player to complete their moves will vary from game to game. \nHowever most games tend to change the classification of tournaments according to the length of \ntime given to the players. Shorter time limits, which do not afford due consideration to moves, are afforded a lesser degree of importance. Indeed, shorter limits are normally given special names to distinguish them.\n\nIn chess, the categories of short time limits are: \"lightning\", \"bullet\", \"blitz\", and \"rapid\".\n\"Bullet\" or \"Lightning\" games are the fastest, with either a very short time limit per move (such as ten seconds) or a very short total time (such as one or two minutes). \n\"Blitz\" games typically give five to ten minutes per player, and \"rapid\" games give between ten and sixty minutes.\nBy way of contrast, for Go, anything under twenty minutes could be considered \"blitz\".\n\nThe exact approach to using a game clock to regulate games varies considerably.\n\nThis is the simplest methodology. Each player is assigned a fixed amount of time for the whole game: once a player's main time expires, they lose the game.\n\nEach player's clock starts with a specified time (e.g. 1 minute, 10 min etc.). While Player 1 is deciding a move, player 1's clock time is decreasing and Player 2's clock time is increasing. This is similar to how an hourglass works; sand empties from one container and fills into the other. Moving slowly gives your opponent extra time. The sum of both clocks will always remain the same. There is no maximum amount of time allotted for a game with this timing method; as long as both players play quickly, the game will continue until its natural end. When time runs out on one player's clock the game is over and that player loses. Use of this time control is uncommon.\n\nHere the game time is separated into two basic domains: the main time, and the overtime. To switch between the two requires some trigger event. Often this is the expiration of the main time. In chess, reaching a fixed number of moves can trigger the gain of a fixed amount of bonus time. This is the general chess rule and it usually occurs in long games after the 40th move:\ne.g. 120 minutes to complete the first 40 moves, and another 30 minutes to complete the entire game.\n\nIn go two common forms are:\n\n is an extended time control in two-player games, specifically shogi and go. The word is borrowed from Japanese; the term literally means \"counting the seconds\", or more generally, \"countdown\".\n\nAfter the main time is depleted, a player has a certain number of periods (for example five periods, each of thirty seconds). If a move is completed before the time expires, the time period resets and restarts the next turn. If a move is not completed within a time period, the time period will expire, and the next time period begins. This is written as <maintime> + <number of byo-yomi time periods> of <byo-yomi time period>. Using up the last period means that the player has \"lost on time\". In some systems, such as certain Go title matches, there is no main time; instead, the time used is rounded \"down\" to the nearest whole increment, such as one minute, and the actual counting of time occurs toward the end of one player's time.\n\nA typical time control is \"60 minutes + 30 seconds byo-yomi\", which means that each player may make as many or as few moves as he chooses during his first 60 minutes of thinking time, but after the hour is exhausted, he must make each move in thirty seconds or less. To enforce byo-yomi, a third person or a game clock with a byo-yomi option is necessary.\n\nIn professional Go games and many amateur tournaments, a player has several byo-yomi periods, for example five periods of one minute each. If a player makes his move within a one-minute period, he retains all five periods for his future moves. If a player oversteps one minute, he starts the following move in the second rather than the first byo-yomi period. In effect, the player has one minute per move plus four extra one-minute packets which may be used as needed, e.g. four moves of two minutes each, or one move of five minutes, or any other combination.\n\nIn higher-level tournaments, such as the Kisei tournament, the player's time is often composed entirely of byo-yomi periods (for example, in an eight-hour game, the player may have 480 periods of one minute each), rather than having a main block of thinking time. In this case, the actual counting of time (verbally) begins once the player falls below a certain threshold of time, such as 10 minutes; when the time is being counted, the player is informed at intervals how much time they have used in their current period, and how many extra periods they have left. (For example, the time may be called at 10-second intervals, and when 55 and 58 seconds have been used; during a player's final minute, the last 10 seconds are counted one by one.) Similarly, in the televised NHK Cup tournament, the player has 30 seconds per move plus 10 extra one-minute periods which may be used as needed.\n\nWhen analog game clocks are used to enforce byo-yomi, it is more convenient to assign additional time for a block of moves, rather than for each move. In \"Canadian byo-yomi\", a player typically gets 5 minutes for 10 to 20 moves. The IGS Go server uses a similar system, but the byo-yomi time is variable and always covers 25 moves. Thus the time control \"20 minutes + 15 minutes byoyomi\" on IGS means that after the initial 20 minutes of thinking time are over, a player is granted 15 additional minutes, which may be spent however he chooses. If these minutes expire before he has made 25 more moves, he loses. If he makes 25 more moves in less than 15 minutes, he is granted another 15 minutes of byo-yomi, and so on indefinitely.\n\nCanadian byo-yomi imposes a certain average speed of play, but allows the player to spend more time to ponder on difficult moves. Several byo-yomi periods in one move per period variant (also known as \"Japanese byo-yomi\", though that is a bit of tautology) serve essentially the same purpose, albeit to a lesser extent.\n\nUnused time during one byo-yomi period does not carry forward to future moves. This is in contrast to the Fischer clock often used in chess, with designations such as \"5 minutes + 12 seconds per move\". Under this time control each player has twelve seconds added to his clock after every move, starting from the first move, regardless of how much time he spends on each move. Thus if a player thinks for eight seconds before making his first move, he will have five minutes and four seconds on his clock after making it.\n\nAfter using all of his/her main time, a player must make a certain number of moves within a certain period of time — for example, twenty moves within five minutes. In Go, players stop the clock, and the player in overtime counts out the required number of stones and sets the remaining stones out of reach so as not to become confused, whilst the opponent sets the clock to the overtime period. If all the moves are made in time, then another period of overtime starts — another set of stones and the timer again reset to the overtime period. If all the moves are not made in time, the player has \"lost on time\". This is written as <main time> + <number of moves to be completed in each time period> in <time period>. In Progressive Canadian Overtime the required rate of play alters in additional overtime periods — EG 1hour + 10 in 5, 20 in 5, 30 in 5, 40 in 5 etc.\n\nIncrement (also known as Fischer and bonus)—a specified amount of time is added for each move. For example, if the increment is thirty seconds, each player gets an additional thirty seconds for each move. Under FIDE and US Chess rules you get the increment for move one as well. For example, for G/3;inc2 (three minutes of base time with a two-second increment each move), you start with three minutes and two seconds on the first move. Not all digital chess clocks automatically give the increment for move one and thus for those that don't, the increment time has to be added manually to be base time so each player gets the increment for move one.\n\nBronstein delay—this timing method adds time but unlike increment not always the maximum amount of time is added. If a player expends more than the specified delay, then the entire delay is added to the player's clock but if a player moves faster than the delay, only the exact amount of time expended by the player is added. For example, if the delay is ten seconds and a player uses ten or more seconds for a move, ten seconds is added after they complete their move. If the player uses five seconds for a move, five seconds is added after they complete their move. This ensures that the base time left on the clock can never increase even if a player makes fast moves. As with increment, you get the delay time for move one under FIDE and US Chess rules.\n\nSimple delay (also known as countdown delay and US delay)—with this timing method, the clock waits for the delay period each move before starting to subtract the player's base time. For example, if the delay is ten seconds, the clock waits for ten seconds each move before the base time starts going down. This timing method is mathematically equivalent to Bronstein delay. Simple delay is the form of delay most often used in the US while Bronstein delay is the form of delay most often used in most other countries.\n\nSuch methods exact a points penalty, or fine, on the player who breaches their time limit. One example occurs in Go, where the Ing Rules enforce fines on breaches of main time and overtime periods. In tournament Scrabble, the time control is standardized to 25 minutes per side with a 10-point penalty for each minute or part thereof that is used in excess, so that overstepping the allotted time by 61 seconds carries a 20-point penalty. In chess, a person will automatically lose if they lose their game on time unless they try a draw claim. (See Rule 14-H in the USCF manual for chess).\n\nOn chess servers (like Internet Chess Club and Free Internet Chess Server) the time control is usually expressed with a formula: \"time+increment\". Where \"time\" is a fixed amount of time (in minutes) assigned at move 0 for the entire game, and \"increment\" (in seconds) is the amount added after each move.\n\nA game can even have a \"time\" set to 0: the clock is set to 0 and started after the first move with the increment only on both sides, and each move each player is granted only the increment: a 0+10 is a game where after the first move each player has 10 seconds to move.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "707806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=707806", "title": "World Sturgeon Conservation Society", "text": "World Sturgeon Conservation Society\n\nThe World Sturgeon Conservation Society (WSCS) is an international association of scientists. Its aim is to conserve existing sturgeon populations worldwide and help in their restoration.\n\nThe society pursues this goal by promoting sturgeon research, holding workshops and conferences, promoting the exchange of sturgeon-related information between scientists and politicians, and by informing the general public about sturgeons.\n\nThe WSCS has its seat in Neu Wulmstorf, Germany, where it was founded in 2003. The President of WSCS is Harald Rosenthal.\n\n"}
{"id": "58754367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58754367", "title": "Xiaochun He", "text": "Xiaochun He\n\nXiaochun He is a high-energy nuclear physicist and Distinguished University Professor at Georgia State University. He is also a member of the PHENIX Collaboration, a research group at Brookhaven National Laboratory's Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider.\n\n"}
