{"id": "44213631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44213631", "title": "Abortion in Uganda", "text": "Abortion in Uganda\n\nAbortion in Uganda is illegal unless performed by a doctor who believes pregnancy places the woman's life at risk. The Ugandan Ministry of Health estimates that , 26% of all maternal deaths result from abortion complications. This is aggravated by legal, socioeconomic, and geographical barriers to safe abortion, which compel women to use unsafe abortion methods and deter them from seeking post-abortion medical care. Contraception is not commonly used, leading to Uganda’s need for family planning. \n\nThe legal status of abortion in Uganda is unclear because it provides for some exceptions while criminalizing the procedure in most cases. The Ugandan Constitution, in Article 22, item 2 states: \"No person has the right to terminate the life of an unborn child except as may be authorised by law.\" However, what is authorized by law remains poorly understood.\n\nThe Penal Code of 1950, Article 141 on \"Attempts to procure abortion\" states: Any person who, with intent to procure the miscarriage of a woman whether she is or is not with child, unlawfully administers to her or causes her to take any poison or other noxious thing, or uses any force of any kind, or uses any other means, commits a felony and is liable to imprisonment for fourteen years.Article 142 lays out a punishment of seven years for an attempt to procure a miscarriage.\n\nNonetheless, under other provisions of the Penal Code an abortion may be performed to save the life of a pregnant woman. Section 217 of the Code provides that a person is not criminally responsible for performing in good faith and with reasonable care and skill a surgical operation upon an unborn child for the preservation of the mother’s life if the performance of the operation is reasonable, having regard to the patient’s state at the time and to all the circumstances of the case. In addition, Section 205 of the Code provides that no person shall be guilty of the offence of causing by willful act a child to die before it has an independent existence from its mother if the act was carried out in good faith for the purpose of preserving the mother’s life.\n\nUganda, like a number of Commonwealth countries, whose legal systems are based the English common law, follows the holding of the 1938 English \"Rex v. Bourne\" decision in determining whether an abortion performed for health reasons is lawful. In the Bourne decision, a physician was acquitted of the offence of performing an abortion in the case of a woman who had been raped. The court ruled that the abortion was lawful because it had been performed to prevent the woman from becoming “a physical and mental wreck”, thus setting a precedent for future abortion cases performed on the grounds of preserving the pregnant woman’s physical and mental health. The liberalization and legality of abortion in Uganda has been complicated by the use of rape as a weapon of war and terror by rebel groups in the region.\"\n\nIn Uganda, an abortion is permitted to save a woman's life, preserve the physical health of the woman, and to preserve the mental health of the woman. An abortion is not permitted in terms of rape or incest, fetal impairment, economic or social reasons, or by request. A legal abortion has to be performed by a licensed and registered physician with the consent of two physicians prior to the medical procedure.\n\nIn 1988, the Ugandan government launched a comprehensive program in response to the country's high fertility and growth rates, which adversely affected per capita incomes and threatened the sustainability of social services. The major goal was to increase the contraceptive rate from 5 percent to 20 percent by 2000. The services for birth control in Uganda are now accessible at clinics and are operated by the Family Planning Association of Uganda. Contraceptives like condoms helped to reduce the rate of HIV/AIDS in Uganda, but there are still a significant number of unwanted pregnancies leading to abortion.\nThere was direct support provided in the government's policy on contraceptive use, and since 1995, 8 percent of married women aged 15 to 49 use contraception. The total fertility rate from 1995 to 2000 was 7.1, and the age specific fertility rate per 1,000 women aged 15 to 19 from 1995 to 2000 was 180. The government has shown a lot of concern for the morbidity and mortality resulting from induced abortion, but there has been a number of complications in childbearing and child birth. In Uganda, the female life expectancy at birth from 1995 to 2000 was 40.4 percent.\n\nMovements such as Pro-Life Uganda (Pro-Life Uganda) and Pro-Choice Uganda (Pro Abortion) fight for their belief that either a woman has the right to choose what happens to her and her body (Pro-Choice Uganda), or the fetus' life is sacred and everyone deserves to live (Pro-Life Uganda). There was a movement that took place that involved the Pro-Life organization, Christian founded anti-abortion that advocates against abortion. This group was joined by 100 delegates from the U.S., United Kingdom, Uganda and Spain in a three-day workshop to help the young women of Uganda understand the preciousness of life, and to counsel the young women against the practice of abortion.\n"}
{"id": "985619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=985619", "title": "Agent-based model", "text": "Agent-based model\n\nAn agent-based model (ABM) is a class of computational models for simulating the actions and interactions of autonomous agents (both individual or collective entities such as organizations or groups) with a view to assessing their effects on the system as a whole. It combines elements of game theory, complex systems, emergence, computational sociology, multi-agent systems, and evolutionary programming. Monte Carlo methods are used to introduce randomness. Particularly within ecology, ABMs are also called individual-based models (IBMs), and individuals within IBMs may be simpler than fully autonomous agents within ABMs. A review of recent literature on individual-based models, agent-based models, and multiagent systems shows that ABMs are used on non-computing related scientific domains including biology, ecology and social science. Agent-based modeling is related to, but distinct from, the concept of multi-agent systems or multi-agent simulation in that the goal of ABM is to search for explanatory insight into the collective behavior of agents obeying simple rules, typically in natural systems, rather than in designing agents or solving specific practical or engineering problems.\n\nAgent-based models are a kind of microscale model that simulate the simultaneous operations and interactions of multiple agents in an attempt to re-create and predict the appearance of complex phenomena. The process is one of emergence from the lower (micro) level of systems to a higher (macro) level. As such, a key notion is that simple behavioral rules generate complex behavior. This principle, known as K.I.S.S. (\"Keep it simple, stupid\"), is extensively adopted in the modeling community. Another central tenet is that the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. Individual agents are typically characterized as boundedly rational, presumed to be acting in what they perceive as their own interests, such as reproduction, economic benefit, or social status, using heuristics or simple decision-making rules. ABM agents may experience \"learning\", adaptation, and reproduction.\n\nMost agent-based models are composed of: (1) numerous agents specified at various scales (typically referred to as agent-granularity); (2) decision-making heuristics; (3) learning rules or adaptive processes; (4) an interaction topology; and (5) an environment. ABMs are typically implemented as computer simulations, either as custom software, or via ABM toolkits, and this software can be then used to test how changes in individual behaviors will affect the system's emerging overall behavior.\n\nThe idea of agent-based modeling was developed as a relatively simple concept in the late 1940s. Since it requires computation-intensive procedures, it did not become widespread until the 1990s.\n\nThe history of the agent-based model can be traced back to the Von Neumann machine, a theoretical machine capable of reproduction. The device von Neumann proposed would follow precisely detailed instructions to fashion a copy of itself. The concept was then built upon by von Neumann's friend Stanislaw Ulam, also a mathematician; Ulam suggested that the machine be built on paper, as a collection of cells on a grid. The idea intrigued von Neumann, who drew it up—creating the first of the devices later termed cellular automata.\nAnother advance was introduced by the mathematician John Conway. He constructed the well-known Game of Life. Unlike von Neumann's machine, Conway's Game of Life operated by tremendously simple rules in a virtual world in the form of a 2-dimensional checkerboard.\n\nOne of the earliest agent-based models in concept was Thomas Schelling's segregation model, which was discussed in his paper \"Dynamic Models of Segregation\" in 1971. Though Schelling originally used coins and graph paper rather than computers, his models embodied the basic concept of agent-based models as autonomous agents interacting in a shared environment with an observed aggregate, emergent outcome.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Robert Axelrod hosted a tournament of Prisoner's Dilemma strategies and had them interact in an agent-based manner to determine a winner. Axelrod would go on to develop many other agent-based models in the field of political science that examine phenomena from ethnocentrism to the dissemination of culture.\nBy the late 1980s, Craig Reynolds' work on flocking models contributed to the development of some of the first biological agent-based models that contained social characteristics. He tried to model the reality of lively biological agents, known as artificial life, a term coined by Christopher Langton.\n\nThe first use of the word \"agent\" and a definition as it is currently used today is hard to track down. One candidate appears to be John Holland and John H. Miller's 1991 paper \"Artificial Adaptive Agents in Economic Theory\", based on an earlier conference presentation of theirs.\n\nAt the same time, during the 1980s, social scientists, mathematicians, operations researchers, and a scattering of people from other disciplines developed Computational and Mathematical Organization Theory (CMOT). This field grew as a special interest group of The Institute of Management Sciences (TIMS) and its sister society, the Operations Research Society of America (ORSA).\n\nWith the appearance of StarLogo in 1990, Swarm and NetLogo in the mid-1990s and RePast and AnyLogic in 2000, or GAMA in 2007 as well as some custom-designed code, modelling software became widely available and the range of domains that ABM was applied to, grew. Bonabeau (2002) is a good survey of the potential of agent-based modeling as of the time\n\nThe 1990s were especially notable for the expansion of ABM within the social sciences, one notable effort was the large-scale ABM, Sugarscape, developed by\nJoshua M. Epstein and Robert Axtell to simulate and explore the role of social phenomena such as seasonal migrations, pollution, sexual reproduction, combat, and transmission of disease and even culture. Other notable 1990s developments included Carnegie Mellon University's Kathleen Carley ABM, to explore the co-evolution of social networks and culture.\nDuring this 1990s timeframe Nigel Gilbert published the first textbook on Social Simulation: Simulation for the social scientist (1999) and established a journal from the perspective of social sciences: the \"Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation\" (JASSS). Other than JASSS, agent-based models of any discipline are within scope of SpringerOpen journal \"Complex Adaptive Systems Modeling\" (CASM).\n\nThrough the mid-1990s, the social sciences thread of ABM began to focus on such issues as designing effective teams, understanding the communication required for organizational effectiveness, and the behavior of social networks. CMOT—later renamed Computational Analysis of Social and Organizational Systems (CASOS)—incorporated more and more agent-based modeling. Samuelson (2000) is a good brief overview of the early history, and Samuelson (2005) and Samuelson and Macal (2006) trace the more recent developments.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the merger of TIMS and ORSA to form INFORMS, and the move by INFORMS from two meetings each year to one, helped to spur the CMOT group to form a separate society, the North American Association for Computational Social and Organizational Sciences (NAACSOS). Kathleen Carley was a major contributor, especially to models of social networks, obtaining National Science Foundation funding for the annual conference and serving as the first President of NAACSOS. She was succeeded by David Sallach of the University of Chicago and Argonne National Laboratory, and then by Michael Prietula of Emory University. At about the same time NAACSOS began, the European Social Simulation Association (ESSA) and the Pacific Asian Association for Agent-Based Approach in Social Systems Science (PAAA), counterparts of NAACSOS, were organized. As of 2013, these three organizations collaborate internationally. The First World Congress on Social Simulation was held under their joint sponsorship in Kyoto, Japan, in August 2006. The Second World Congress was held in the northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C., in July 2008, with George Mason University taking the lead role in local arrangements.\n\nMore recently, Ron Sun developed methods for basing agent-based simulation on models of human cognition, known as cognitive social simulation. Bill McKelvey, Suzanne Lohmann, Dario Nardi, Dwight Read and others at UCLA have also made significant contributions in organizational behavior and decision-making. Since 2001, UCLA has arranged a conference at Lake Arrowhead, California, that has become another major gathering point for practitioners in this field. In 2014, Sadegh Asgari from Columbia University and his colleagues developed an agent-based model of the construction competitive bidding. While his model was used to analyze the low-bid lump-sum construction bids, it could be applied to other bidding methods with little modifications to the model.\n\nMost computational modeling research describes systems in equilibrium or as moving between equilibria. Agent-based modeling, however, using simple rules, can result in different sorts of complex and interesting behavior. The three ideas central to agent-based models are agents as objects, emergence, and complexity.\n\nAgent-based models consist of dynamically interacting rule-based agents. The systems within which they interact can create real-world-like complexity. Typically agents are\nsituated in space and time and reside in networks or in lattice-like neighborhoods. The location of the agents and their responsive behavior are encoded in algorithmic form in computer programs. In some cases, though not always, the agents may be considered as intelligent and purposeful. In ecological ABM (often referred to as \"individual-based models\" in ecology), agents may, for example, be trees in forest, and would not be considered intelligent, although they may be \"purposeful\" in the sense of optimizing access to a resource (such as water).\nThe modeling process is best described as inductive. The modeler makes those assumptions thought most relevant to the situation at hand and then watches phenomena emerge from the agents' interactions. Sometimes that result is an equilibrium. Sometimes it is an emergent pattern. Sometimes, however, it is an unintelligible mangle.\n\nIn some ways, agent-based models complement traditional analytic methods. Where analytic methods enable humans to characterize the equilibria of a system, agent-based models allow the possibility of generating those equilibria. This generative contribution may be the most mainstream of the potential benefits of agent-based modeling. Agent-based models can explain the emergence of higher-order patterns—network structures of terrorist organizations and the Internet, power-law distributions in the sizes of traffic jams, wars, and stock-market crashes, and social segregation that persists despite populations of tolerant people. Agent-based models also can be used to identify lever points, defined as moments in time in which interventions have extreme consequences, and to distinguish among types of path dependency.\n\nRather than focusing on stable states, many models consider a system's robustness—the ways that complex systems adapt to internal and external pressures so as to maintain their functionalities. The task of harnessing that complexity requires consideration of the agents themselves—their diversity, connectedness, and level of interactions.\n\nRecent work on the Modeling and simulation of Complex Adaptive Systems has demonstrated the need for combining agent-based and complex network based models. describe a framework consisting of four levels of developing models of complex adaptive systems described using several example multidisciplinary case studies:\nOther methods of describing agent-based models include code templates and text-based methods such as the ODD (Overview, Design concepts, and Design Details) protocol.\n\nThe role of the environment where agents live, both macro and micro, is also becoming an important factor in agent-based modelling and simulation work. Simple environment affords simple agents, but complex environments generates diversity of behaviour.\n\nAgent-based modeling has been used extensively in biology, including the analysis of the spread of epidemics, and the threat of biowarfare, biological applications including population dynamics, vegetation ecology, landscape diversity, the growth and decline of ancient civilizations, evolution of ethnocentric behavior, forced displacement/migration, language choice dynamics, cognitive modeling, and biomedical applications including modeling 3D breast tissue formation/morphogenesis, the effects of ionizing radiation on mammary stem cell subpopulation dynamics, inflammation,\nand the human immune system. Agent-based models have also been used for developing decision support systems such as for breast cancer. Agent-based models are increasingly being used to model pharmacological systems in early stage and pre-clinical research to aid in drug development and gain insights into biological systems that would not be possible \"a priori\". Military applications have also been evaluated. Moreover, agent-based models have been recently employed to study molecular-level biological systems.\n\nAgent-based models have been used since the mid-1990s to solve a variety of business and technology problems. Examples of applications include the modeling of organizational behaviour and cognition, team working, supply chain optimization and logistics, modeling of consumer behavior, including word of mouth, social network effects, distributed computing, workforce management, and portfolio management. They have also been used to analyze traffic congestion.\n\nRecently, agent based modelling and simulation has been applied to various domains such as studying the impact of publication venues by researchers in the computer science domain (journals versus conferences). In addition, ABMs have been used to simulate information delivery in ambient assisted environments. A November 2016 article in arXiv analyzed an agent based simulation of posts spread in the Facebook online social network. In the domain of peer-to-peer, ad-hoc and other self-organizing and complex networks, the usefulness of agent based modeling and simulation has been shown. The use of a computer science-based formal specification framework coupled with wireless sensor networks and an agent-based simulation has recently been demonstrated.\n\nAgent based evolutionary search or algorithm is a new research topic for solving complex optimization problems.\n\nPrior to, and in the wake of the financial crisis, interest has grown in ABMs as possible tools for economic analysis. ABMs do not assume the economy can achieve equilibrium and \"representative agents\" are replaced by agents with diverse, dynamic, and interdependent behavior including herding. ABMs take a \"bottom-up\" approach and can generate extremely complex and volatile simulated economies. ABMs can represent unstable systems with crashes and booms that develop out of non-linear (disproportionate) responses to proportionally small changes. A July 2010 article in \"The Economist\" looked at ABMs as alternatives to DSGE models. The journal \"Nature\" also encouraged agent-based modeling with an editorial that suggested ABMs can do a better job of representing financial markets and other economic complexities than standard models along with an essay by J. Doyne Farmer and Duncan Foley that argued ABMs could fulfill both the desires of Keynes to represent a complex economy and of Robert Lucas to construct models based on microfoundations. Farmer and Foley pointed to progress that has been made using ABMs to model parts of an economy, but argued for the creation of a very large model that incorporates low level models. By modeling a complex system of analysts based on three distinct behavioral profiles – imitating, anti-imitating, and indifferent – financial markets were simulated to high accuracy. Results showed a correlation between network morphology and the stock market index.\n\nSince the beginning of the 21st century ABMs have been deployed in architecture and urban planning to evaluate design and to simulate pedestrian flow in the urban environment. There is also a growing field of socio-economic analysis of infrastructure investment impact using ABM's ability to discern systemic impacts upon a socio-economic network.\n\nThe agent-directed simulation (ADS) metaphor distinguishes between two categories, namely \"Systems for Agents\" and \"Agents for Systems.\" Systems for Agents (sometimes referred to as agents systems) are systems implementing agents for the use in engineering, human and social dynamics, military applications, and others. Agents for Systems are divided in two subcategories. Agent-supported systems deal with the use of agents as a support facility to enable computer assistance in problem solving or enhancing cognitive capabilities. Agent-based systems focus on the use of agents for the generation of model behavior in a system evaluation (system studies and analyses).\n\nMany agent-based modeling software are designed for serial von-Neumann computer architectures. This limits the speed and scalability of these systems. A recent development is the use of data-parallel algorithms on Graphics Processing Units GPUs for ABM simulation. The extreme memory bandwidth combined with the sheer number crunching power of multi-processor GPUs has enabled simulation of millions of agents at tens of frames per second.\n\nVerification and validation (V&V) of simulation models is extremely important. Verification involves the model being debugged to ensure it works correctly, whereas validation ensures that the right model has been built. Face validation, sensitivity analysis, calibration and statistical validation have also been demonstrated. A discrete-event simulation framework approach for the validation of agent-based systems has been proposed. A comprehensive resource on empirical validation of agent-based models can be found here.\n\nAs an example of V&V technique, consider VOMAS (virtual overlay multi-agent system), a software engineering based approach, where a virtual overlay multi-agent system is developed alongside the agent-based model. The agents in the multi-agent system are able to gather data by generation of logs as well as provide run-time validation and verification support by watch agents and also agents to check any violation of invariants at run-time. These are set by the Simulation Specialist with help from the SME (subject-matter expert). Muazi et al. also provide an example of using VOMAS for verification and validation of a forest fire simulation model.\n\nVOMAS provides a formal way of validation and verification. To develop a VOMAS, one must design VOMAS agents along with the agents in the actual simulation, preferably from the start. In essence, by the time the simulation model is complete, one can essentially consider it to be one model containing two models:\n\nUnlike all previous work on verification and validation, VOMAS agents ensure that the simulations are validated in-simulation i.e. even during execution. In case of any exceptional situations, which are programmed on the directive of the Simulation Specialist (SS), the VOMAS agents can report them. In addition, the VOMAS agents can be used to log key events for the sake of debugging and subsequent analysis of simulations. In other words, VOMAS allows for a flexible use of any given technique for the sake of verification and validation of an agent-based model in any domain.\n\nDetails of validated agent-based modeling using VOMAS along with several case studies are given in. This thesis also gives details of \"exploratory agent-based modeling\", \"descriptive agent-based modeling\" and \"validated agent-based modeling\", using several worked case study examples.\n\nMathematical models of complex systems are of three types: black-box (phenomenological), white-box (mechanistic, based on the first principles) and grey-box (mixtures of phenomenological and mechanistic models).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9996091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9996091", "title": "Bahta Hagos", "text": "Bahta Hagos\n\nBahta Hagos (Ge'ez: ባህታ ሓጎስ) was Dejazmach of Akkele Guzay, and retrospectively considered an important leader of Eritrean resistance to foreign domination specifically against northern Ethiopian and Italian colonialism. He was born into a rich peasant family, his father Hagos Andu of the Tsena-Degle from Akkele Guzay in the mid-19th century in the town of Segheneyti and was killed in the Battle of Halai against the Italian Colonial Army on December 19, 1894.\n\nBahta originally gained recognition in 1875 when he killed Embaye Araya son of Rasi Araya, an Ethiopian Governor, in a skirmish precipitated by raiding of the area. Bahta and other Eritrian tribal leaders were in constant conflict with the Ethiopian forces under Ras Alula and Yohannes (himself a Tigrian); for example, despite the best efforts of Ras Alula's lieutenant Balatta Gabru in 1880, Bahta evaded capture and later that year allied himself with the Egyptian garrison at Sanhit (latter Keren). In 1885, as an Italian colonial presence replaced the defeated Egyptians, and their control of Massawa, Bahta moved to ally himself with them and their General, later provincial governor Oreste Baratieri. This was done in the hope that Eritreans would be able to maintain a certain amount of independence, at least more so than under Ethiopian influence. As a consequence, Bahta came to control Akkele Guzay, and by 1889 his own forces formed an important flank in the Italian moves to create the Colony of Eritrea. He fought alongside the Italians against the Mahdists at the Battle of Agordat in December, 1893.\n\nHowever Bahta became increasingly frustrated with the conduct of the Italian Colonial Government and their soldiers, particularly the expropriation of land from the clergy. He understood that Menelik was consolidating his power to the south with plans to displace the Italians. In June 1894, he, along with Ras Mengesha Yohannes, Ras Alula, and Ras Woldemikael Selomon traveled to Addis Ababa to seek forgiveness from the Negus for their dealings with Baratieri. Menelik forgave them and offered Mengesha the crown of Tigray in exchange for his loyalty and help in evicting the Italians. The Tigrian leaders plotted against Baratieri while maintaining a guise of friendship with him. Bahta even led an army into the western province of Shiray on the pretext of fighting the Mahdists, but instead subjugated Kitet and started recruiting an even larger army.\n\nIn December 1894, Bahta unilaterally led his force of 1,600 men in direct revolt against the Italians, although he claimed support of Mengesha. He captured the Italian administrator at Segheneyti, which was then the capital of the province, and declared an independent Akkele Guzay. He proclaimed himself \"An avenger of rights trampled on by the Italians\". and also said \"the Italians curse us, seize our land; I want to free you... let us drive the Italians out and be our own masters.\" On the 15th, the telegraph wires were cut from Segheneyti to Asmara, which the Italians had occupied since 1889, in order to give himself time to mobilize the population and bring Mengesha into the conflict. Baratieri immediately suspected Mengesha and ordered Major Toselli and his battalion to move on Segheneyti.\n\nUpon arrival, the Major entered negotiations with Bahta, who stalled him with excuses and promises of loyalty. The Italian reinforcements started to arrive and by the evening of the 17th Toselli had 1500 men and two artillery pieces. He went to move against Bahta the following morning, but found him gone. Bahta had secretly abandoned Segheneyti in the night and had moved his force north against the Italian garrison of 220 men at the small fort of Halay, commanded by Captain Castellazzi. Toselli correctly guessed this was Bahta's plan, and marched his men towards Halay.\n\nBahta called for Castellazzi to surrender and abandon the fort. Negotiations continued until 13:30, when Bahta's patience came to an end and the attack was ordered. Low on ammunition, the Italians held out until 16:45, when the situation became critical. Toselli's forces arrived at that moment, and launched an attack on Bahta's rear. Bahta was killed in the attack, and his forces fled, many joining Mengesha. Mengesha's army would lose at the Battle of Coatit, but Menelik would soon commit his forces, and destroy the Italians at the Battle of Adwa, ending their colonial hopes for Ethiopia.\n\nBecause of his influence, after his death his burial was banned by the Italian Colonial government. They feared that his memorial would be nexus for further rebellion. His body was secretly buried at Halay, and later moved to Segheneyti in 1953. In 2007 he was interred once more in a newly constructed memorial with an honor guard in memory of his struggle.\n\n"}
{"id": "23703033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23703033", "title": "Behnaz Akhgar", "text": "Behnaz Akhgar\n\nBehnaz Akhgar (; born 1980 ) is a Welsh weather presenter of Iranian origin currently working for BBC's Wales Today. She broadcasts the morning and weekend bulletins with Sue Charles, and acts as a relief presenter for meteorologist Derek Brockway. Behnaz, often called Benni, is from a Persian-Welsh background; her first language is Persian.\n\nShe entered the Miss Wales pageant in 1998.\n\nAkhgar was born in Shiraz, Iran. She moved to Swansea when she was 10 years old, she attended Dynevor comprehensive school where coincidentally her parents opened a shop literally around the corner from there named \"Dagwood's\"; she has lived in Wales ever since. When she arrived in Britain she spoke no English. She attended the University of Glamorgan where she gained a BA in communication studies, followed by completion of a postgraduate diploma in broadcast journalism at Cardiff University.\n\nAkhgar joined the BBC in 2001, working behind the scenes before becoming a picture editor and video journalist. During this time, she applied for weather-presenting jobs, landing her current role in 2008 – on her third attempt.\n\nAkhgar presents the morning and weekend weather bulletins with Sue Charles, and acts as a relief presenter for meteorologist Derek Brockway. She also presents regular bulletins on BBC Radio Wales throughout the day. She has described the harassment she experiences as a female forecaster from \"geeks\" who complain about her glamorous appearance. In 2012 an error resulted in the weather map behind her showing a temperature of −99 degrees C in Bangor, Wales.\n\nAkhgar has also broadcast features on the BBC World Service about the plight of women in the developing world.\n\nIn 2016, she appeared on the BBC One programme \"Search For A*\" alongside other celebrities Wynne Evans and Omar Hamdi.\n"}
{"id": "34875249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34875249", "title": "Captain Underpants and the Revolting Revenge of the Radioactive Robo-Boxers", "text": "Captain Underpants and the Revolting Revenge of the Radioactive Robo-Boxers\n\nCaptain Underpants and the Revolting Revenge of the Radioactive Robo-Boxers is the tenth book in the \"Captain Underpants\" series created by Dav Pilkey. It was published on January 15, 2013.\nThe giant zombie nerds move really slowly so the giant Zombie Nerd Harold actually crushed a giant ketchup packet. Tippy Tinkletrousers travels back to 10 minutes BEFORE Kipper and friends; they freeze upon seeing him. Tippy shrinks and abducts his past self to when George and Harold are about to be arrested. The boys travel back with their pets, but accidentally take Mr. Krupp with them. Big Tippy sends his smaller self back ten minutes to find where, then back there then, where the small ones zap themselves back and steal the Goosy-Grow 4000, which turns Tiny Tippy extremely massive. When Big Tippy attempts to use his nuclear bomb to kill Captain Underpants, Supa Mega Tippy zaps himself back in time (with his twin) and kicks Big Tippy and his bomb away into the Gulf of Mexico. When the bomb explodes, it blows a huge crater and kills the dinosaurs.\n\nThe five protagonists and their captor then travel to the African savannas where the boys and their pets gain the trust of some cavemen who inhabit the surrounding jungles. The cavemen are taught English through drawings and subsequently, the boys make the world's first comic book (which involves drawings of traps working on Tippy). The Neanderthals, inspired by the book, then set traps for Tippy and defeat him. He then sets off his freeze ray (which has been tampered with by his younger twin so that it could not be turned off), and the Goosy-Grow 4000 enlarges the ice which appears to make Crackers's condition deteriorate and causes the Ice Age (and freezing Tippy himself)\n\nGeorge and Harold are then transported to the future by Slightly Younger Tiny Tippy, who is now gigantic, thanks to the Goosy-Grow 4000. But it turns out they are now teachers (the mean and cruel ones they are used to be) and Mr. Krupp is an old man. After getting rid of their evil future selves by vowing never to take life seriously, they snap their fingers, turning both Mr. Krupps into Captain Underpants, and they beat up Slightly Younger Tiny Tippy, who afterwards attempts to use his nuclear bomb to blow up the entire galaxy. After that, Crackers and Sulu decide to save the entire galaxy by sending Slightly Younger Tiny Tippy and themselves back to the time before the universe existed (13.7 billion years ago). The three are then destroyed by Slightly Younger Tiny Tippy's giant nuclear bomb and the universe is formed. It also turns out that Crackers had laid a brood of eggs (revealing Crackers to have been a female.) and George, Harold and the younger Captain Underpants all decide to take care of them. Suddenly, George's and Harold's nemesis, Melvin Sneedly, in a giant Robo-Squid called the \"Super Squid\", appears and captures George, Harold, Captain Underpants, and Crackers's eggs, taking them back to the future.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69414", "title": "Castration", "text": "Castration\n\nCastration (also known as gonadectomy) is any action, surgical, chemical, or otherwise, by which an individual loses use of the testicles. Surgical castration is bilateral orchiectomy (excision of both testes), and chemical castration uses pharmaceutical drugs to deactivate the testes. Castration causes sterilization (preventing the castrated person or animal from reproducing); it also greatly reduces the production of certain hormones, such as testosterone. Surgical castration in animals is often called neutering.\n\nThe term \"castration\" is sometimes also used to refer to the removal of the ovaries in the female, otherwise known as an oophorectomy or, in animals, spaying. Estrogen levels drop precipitously following oophorectomy, and long-term effects of the reduction of sex hormones are significant throughout the body.\n\nThe term \"castration\" may also be sometimes used to refer to emasculation where both the testicles \"and\" the penis are removed together. In some cultures, and in some translations, no distinction is made between the two. This can cause confusion.\n\nCastration of non-human animals is intended to favor a desired development of the animal or of its habits, as an anaphrodisiac or to prevent overpopulation. As above, see neutering for more information on castration of non-human animals.\n\nCastration was frequently used for religious or social reasons in certain cultures in Europe, South Asia, Africa, and East Asia. After battles in some cases, winners castrated their captives or the corpses of the defeated to symbolize their victory and seize their \"power\". Castrated men — eunuchs – were often admitted to special social classes and were used particularly to staff bureaucracies and palace households: in particular, the harem. Castration also figured in a number of religious castration cults. Other religions, such as Judaism, were strongly opposed to the practice. The Leviticus Holiness code, for example, specifically excludes eunuchs or any males with defective genitals from the priesthood, just as castrated animals are excluded from sacrifice.\n\nEunuchs in China had been known to usurp power in many eras of Chinese history, most notably in the Later Han, late Tang and late Ming dynasties. There are similar recorded Middle Eastern events.\n\nIn ancient times, castration often involved the total removal of all the male genitalia. This involved great danger of death due to bleeding or infection and, in some states, such as the Byzantine Empire, was seen as the same as a death sentence. Removal of only the testicles had much less risk.\n\nEither surgical removal of both testicles or chemical castration may be carried out in the case of prostate cancer. Testosterone-depletion treatment (either surgical removal of both testicles or chemical castration) is used to slow down the cancer, greatly reduce sex drive or interest in those with sexual drives, obsessions, or behaviors, or any combination of those that may be considered deviant. \n\nCastration has also been used in the United States for sex offenders.\n\nTrans women often undergo orchiectomy, as do some other transgender people. Orchiectomy may be performed as part of a more general sex reassignment surgery, either before or during other procedures. It may also be performed on someone who does not desire, or cannot afford, further surgery.\nInvoluntary castration appears in the history of warfare, sometimes used by one side to torture or demoralize their enemies. It was practiced to extinguish opposing male lineages and thus allow the victor to sexually possess the defeated group's women.\n\nEdward Gibbon's \"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" reports castration of defeated foes at the hands of the Normans during their invasions of Sicily and Italy.\n\nIn the medieval kingdom of Georgia, the pretender Demna was castrated by his uncle George III of Georgia to ensure the supremacy of George's branch of the family.\n\nAnother victim of castration was the medieval French philosopher, scholar, teacher, and (later) monk Pierre Abélard. He was castrated by relatives of his lover, Héloïse.\n\nBishop Wimund, a 12th-century English adventurer and invader of the Scottish coast, was castrated.\n\nIn medieval England those found guilty of high treason were hanged, drawn and quartered, which often included emasculation or removal of the genitalia.\n\nIn ancient Greek mythology, Cronus castrated his father, Uranus, after the latter imprisoned the Cyclopes and Hecatonchires.\n\nWilliam Wallace, the Scottish resistance leader, was castrated as part of his execution, for resistance to English rule.\n\nWim Deetman was criticized by the Dutch parliament for excluding evidence of castration in his report on sexual abuse by the Roman Catholic Church, where ten children were allegedly \"punished\" by castration in the 1950s for reporting sexual abuse by Roman Catholic priests. However, the Deetman Commission had rejected it as the person who reported the incident admitted it was speculative. Voluntary castration for homosexuality was also state policy in Netherlands at that point, as well against Catholic canon law, and there has been no evidence suggesting the Church had a part in organizing the procedures.\nChemical castration has been and is used as part of sentencing in criminal cases.\n\nIn 1952, Alan Turing—the father of computer science and the inventor of the Turing machine—was criminally prosecuted for homosexual acts and chose chemical castration as an alternative to a period of imprisonment.\n\nAccording to legend, during the reign of the legendary Emperor Shun and Yu in China, in 2281 BCE castration was passed into law as a punishment, which remained so until the reign of Gaozu of Tang (589–600 CE). However, it was still practiced after his reign. According to historians, it was incorporated into Chinese law during the Zhou Dynasty. It was one of the five physical punishments that could be legally inflicted on criminals in China.\n\nRecords of castrations in China date to the Shang dynasty (ca.1700–1050 BCE), when the Shang kings castrated prisoners of war.\n\nDuring the reign of Mu of the Zhou Dynasty (10th c. BCE) the Minister of Crime, Marquis Lu, reformed the law in 950 BC to make it easier for people to be sentenced to castration instead of death. As long as the practice existed in China, not only were the testicles merely removed but castration included the severing of one's entire genitalia. Both organs were cut off with a knife at the same time.\n\nMen were castrated and made into state slaves during the Qin dynasty (221–206 BCE) to perform forced labor for projects such as the Terracotta Army. The Qin government confiscated the property and enslaved the families of rapists who received castration as a punishment. Men punished with castration during the Han dynasty were also used as slave labor.\n\nIn the Han dynasty (206 BCE–220 CE), castration continued to be used as a punishment for various offences. Chinese historian Sima Qian was castrated by order of the Han Emperor of China for dissent. In another incident multiple people, including a chief scribe and his underlings, were subjected to castration.\n\nDuring the early part of the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644 CE), China demanded eunuchs to be sent as tribute from Korea. Some of them oversaw the Korean concubines in the harem of the Chinese Emperor.\n\nWhen the Chinese overthrew Mongol rule, many Mongols were castrated and turned into eunuchs. When the Ming army finally captured Yunnan from Mongols in 1382, thousands of prisoners were killed and, according to the custom in times of war, their young sons—including Zheng He—were castrated.\n\nDuring the Miao Rebellions (Ming Dynasty), Chinese commanders castrated thousands of Miao boys when their tribes revolted, and then distributed them as eunuch slaves as gifts to various officials.\n\nAt the end of the Ming Dynasty, there were about 70,000 eunuchs (宦官 \"huànguān\", or 太監 \"tàijiàn\") employed by the emperor, with some serving inside the Forbidden City.\n\nMany of the non-Han Chinese peoples who founded states in China after invading originally did not have eunuchs as part of their culture, but adopted it from the Han Chinese.\n\nThe Khitan people adopted the practice of using eunuchs from the Chinese and the eunuchs used were non-Khitan prisoners of war. The Khitan were a nomadic Mongolic people and originally did not have eunuchs as part of their culture. When the Khitan founded the Liao Dynasty they developed a harem system with concubines and wives and adopted eunuchs as part of it. All of the eunuchs were captured ethnic Chinese from the Central Plains that came from two sources. The Khitan captured Chinese people who were already eunuchs at the Jin court when they invaded of the Later Jin. Another source was during their war with the Chinese Song dynasty, the Khitan would raid China, capture Han Chinese boys as prisoners of war and emasculate them to become eunuchs. The emasculation of captured Chinese boys guaranteed a continuous supply of eunuchs to serve in the Liao Dynasty harem. The Empress Dowager Chengtian played a large role in the raids to capture and emasculate the boys.\n\nThe Khitan Empress Dowager Xiao Chuo (Chengtian) of the Khitan Liao state took power at age 30 in 982 as a regent for her son. She personally led her own army against the Song Chinese in 986 and defeated them in battle, fighting the retreating Chinese army. She then ordered the castration of around 100 ethnic Chinese boys she had captured in China, supplementing the Khitan's supply of eunuchs to serve at her court, among them was Wang Ji'en. The boys were all under ten years old and were selected for their good looks.\n\nThe History of Liao 遼史 described and praised Empress Chengtian's capture and mass castration of Chinese boys in a biography on the Chinese eunuch Wang Ji'en.\n\nSome legends say that the Mongol Genghis Khan was castrated by a Tangut princess using a knife, who wanted revenge against his treatment of the Tanguts and to stop him from raping her.\n\nDuring the Qing dynasty (1644–1911 CE), the sons and grandsons of the rebel Yaqub Beg in China were all sentenced to castration. Surviving members of Yaqub Beg's family included his 4 sons, 4 grandchildren (2 grandsons and 2 granddaughters), and 4 wives. They either died in prison in Lanzhou, Gansu, or were killed by the Chinese. His sons Yima Kuli, K'ati Kuli, Maiti Kuli, and grandson Aisan Ahung were the only survivors in 1879. They were all underage children, and put on trial, sentenced to an agonizing death if they were complicit in their father's rebellious \"sedition\", or if they were innocent of their fathers crimes, were to be sentenced to castration and serving as a eunuch slave to Chinese troops, when they reached 11 years old, and handed over to the Imperial Household to be executed or castrated. Although some sources assert that the sentence of castration was carried out, official sources from the U.S. State Department and activists involved in the incident state that Yaqub Beg's son and grandsons had their sentence commuted to life imprisonment with a fund provided for their support. The last remaining Imperial eunuch, Sun Yaoting, died in 1996.\n\nThe eunuchs of Korea, called \"Naesi\" (내시, 內侍), were officials to the king and other royalty in traditional Korean society. The first recorded appearance of a Korean eunuch was in Goryeosa (\"History of Goryeo\"), a compilation about the Goryeo period. In 1392, with the founding of the Joseon Dynasty, the \"Naesi\" system was revised, and the department was renamed the \"Department of \"Naesi\"\" (내시부, 內侍府).\n\nThe Naesi system included two ranks, those of \"Sangseon\" (상선, 尙膳, \"Chief of Naesi\"), who held the official title of senior second rank, and \"Naegwan\" (내관, 內官, \"Common official naesi\"), both of which held rank as officers. 140 naesi in total served the palace in Joseon Dynasty period. They also took the exam on Confucianism every month. The naesi system was repealed in 1894 following Gabo reform.\n\nAccording to legend, castration consisted of daubing a boy's genitals with human feces and having a dog bite them off. During the Yuan Dynasty, eunuchs became a desirable commodity for tributes, and dog bites were replaced by more sophisticated surgical techniques.\n\nThe Vietnamese adopted the eunuch system and castration techniques from China. Records show that the Vietnamese created eunuchs through castration in a painful procedure by removing the entire genitalia with both penis and testicles being cut off with a sharp knife or metal blade. The procedure was agonizing since the entire penis was cut off. The young man's thighs and abdomen would be tied and others would pin him down on a table. The genitals would be sterilized with pepper water and then cut off. A tube would be then inserted into the urethra to allow urination during healing. Any facial hair such as the beard would fall off and the eunuch's voice would become like a girl's. The eunuchs served as slaves to the Vietnamese palace women in the harem like the consorts, concubines, maids, Queen, and Princesses, doing most of the work. The only man allowed in the Palace was the Emperor, the only others allowed were his women and the eunuchs since they were not able to have sexual relations with the women. The eunuchs were assigned to do work for the palace women like massaging and applying make up to the women and preparing them for sex with the Emperor.\n\nLý Thường Kiệt was a prominent eunuch general during the Lý Dynasty (1009–1225).\n\nThe Trần Dynasty sent Vietnamese boy eunuchs as tribute to Ming Dynasty China several times, in 1383, 1384 and 1385 Nguyen Dao, Nguyen Toan, Tru Ca, and Ngo Tin were among several Vietnamese eunuchs sent to China.\n\nDuring the Fourth Chinese domination of Vietnam, the Ming Chinese under the Yongle Emperor castrated many young Vietnamese boys, choosing them for their handsomeness and ability, and brought them to Nanjing to serve as eunuchs. Among them were the architect-engineer Nguyễn An and Nguyen Lang (阮浪). Vietnamese were among the many eunuchs of different origins found at Yongle's court. Among the eunuchs in charge of the Capital Battalions of Beijing was Xing An, a Vietnamese.\n\nIn the Lê Dynasty the Vietnamese Emperor Lê Thánh Tông was aggressive in his relations with foreign countries including China. A large amount of trade between Guangdong and Vietnam happened during his reign. Early accounts recorded that the Vietnamese captured Chinese whose ships had blown off course and detained them. Young Chinese men were selected by the Vietnamese for castration to become eunuch slaves to the Vietnamese. It has been speculated by modern historians that the Chinese who were captured and castrated by the Vietnamese were involved in trade between China and Vietnam instead of actually being blown off course by the wind and they were punished as part of a crackdown on foreign trade by Vietnam.\n\nSeveral Malay envoys from the Malacca sultanate were attacked and captured in 1469 by the Lê Dynasty of Annam (Vietnam) as they were returning to Malacca from China. The Vietnamese enslaved and castrated the young from among the captured.\n\nA 1472 entry in the Ming Shilu reported that when some Chinese from Nanhai county escaped back to China after their ship had been blown off course into Vietnam, where they had been forced to serve as soldiers in Vietnam's military. The escapees also reported that they found out up to 100 Chinese men remained captives in Vietnam after they were caught and castrated by the Vietnamese after their ships were blown off course into Vietnam. The Chinese Ministry of Revenue responded by ordering Chinese civilians and soldiers to stop going abroad to foreign countries. China's relations with Vietnam during this period were marked by the punishment of prisoners by castration.\n\nA 1499 entry in the Ming Shilu recorded that 13 Chinese men from Wenchang including a young man named Wu Rui were captured by the Vietnamese after their ship was blown off course while traveling from Hainan to Guangdong's Qin subprefecture (Qinzhou), after which they ended up near the coast of Vietnam, during the Chenghua Emperor's rule (1447–1487). Twelve of them were enslaved to work as agricultural laborers, while the youngest, Wu Rui (吳瑞) was selected for castration since he was the only young man and he became a eunuch attendant at the Vietnamese imperial palace in Thang Long. After years of service, he was promoted at the death of the Vietnamese ruler in 1497 to a military position in northern Vietnam. A soldier told him of an escape route back to China and Wu Rui escaped to Longzhou. The local chief planned to sell him back to the Vietnamese, but Wu was rescued by the Pingxiang magistrate and then was sent to Beijing to work as a eunuch in the palace.\n\nThe \"Đại Việt sử ký toàn thư\" records that in 1467 in An Bang province of Dai Viet (now Quảng Ninh Province) a Chinese ship blew off course onto the shore. The Chinese were detained and not allowed to return to China as ordered by Le Thanh Tong. This incident may be the same one where Wu Rui was captured.\n\nIn the Nguyễn Dynasty the poet Hồ Xuân Hương mocked eunuchs in her poem as a stand-in for criticizing the government.\n\nCommoners were banned from undergoing castration in Vietnam, only adult men of high social rank could be castrated, most eunuchs were born as such with a congenital abnormality. The Vietnamese government mandated that boys born with defective genitalia were to be reported to officials, in exchange for the town being freed from mandatory labor requirements. The boy would have the option of serving as a eunuch official or serving the palace women when he became ten years old. This law was put in place in 1838 during the Nguyễn Dynasty. The only males allowed inside the Forbidden City at Huế were the Emperor and his eunuchs.\n\nThe presence of eunuchs in Vietnam was used by the French colonizers to degrade the Vietnamese.\n\nIn 1778, Thomas Jefferson wrote a bill in Virginia reducing the punishment for rape, polygamy or sodomy from death to castration. Over the years several U.S. states have passed laws regarding chemical castration for sex offenders but not one state has mandatory castration. In 2016, Steve Hurst, an Alabama lawmaker proposed a bill requiring certain sex offenses to require the perpetrator be castrated prior to their release from state custody.\n\nIn 1983, Judge C. Victor Pyle gave three convicted rapists the sentence of 30 years or castration.\n\nAqa Mohammad Khan Qajar, who established the Qajar Dynasty in Iran (in the 18th century), was a victim of castration by officers of the previous kingdom. When he conquered Lotf Ali Khan, the last king of the Zand Dynasty, Qajar had Lotf Ali Khan castrated in revenge.\n\nIn the over 13 centuries of the Arab slave trade in Africa unknown number of Africans were enslaved and shipped to the Middle East. It is claimed that a vast majority of the male black slaves, estimated at around 80%, were castrated.\n\n\"The Caliphate in Baghdad at the beginning of the 10th Century had 7,000 black eunuchs and 4,000 white eunuchs in his palace.\" The Arab slave trade typically dealt in the sale of castrated male slaves. Black boys at the age of eight to twelve had their scrotum and penis completely amputated. Reportedly, about two of three boys died, but those who survived drew high prices.\n\nAn article in the \"Gulf Times\" revealed in 2005 a major sex trade in mostly Nepalese boys who were lured to India and sold to brothels in Mumbai, Hyderabad, New Delhi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur. One victim was lured from Nepal at the age of 14, sold into slavery, locked up, beaten, starved, and forcibly castrated. He reported that he was held in a brothel with 40 to 50 other boys, many of whom were also castrated. He escaped and made his way back to Nepal. Two non-governmental organizations, one that works with homosexuals in Nepal, and one that works to rescue and rehabilitate trafficked women and children, were co-operating to help and rescue these boys.\n\n\"Voluntary\" chemical or surgical castration has been in practice in many countries—reports are available from American and European countries in particular for over eighty years (chemical for circa thirty)—as an option for treatment for people who have broken laws of a sexual nature, allowing them to return to the community from otherwise lengthy detentions. The effectiveness and ethics of this treatment are heavily debated.\n\nA \"temporary\" \"chemical castration\" has been studied and developed as a preventive measure and punishment for several repeated sex crimes, such as rape or other sexually related violence. This has also been used to punish homosexuality, such as the punishment suffered by Alan Turing.\n\nIn modern times, the Czech Republic practices surgically castrating convicted sex offenders. According to the reports compiled by Council of Europe, a human-rights forum, the central European country physically castrated at least 94 prisoners in the 10 years up to April 2008. The Czech Republic defends this procedure as voluntary and effective. According to Dr. Martin Hollý, director of the Psychiatric Hospital Bohnice in Prague, none of the nearly 100 sex offenders who had been physically castrated had committed further offences. One serial offender stated that being castrated was the \"best decision\" he ever made: \"On the one hand you have to protect the potential victims and on the other hand I wanted to be protected from myself, I wanted to live like a normal person.\" Don Grubin, a professor at Newcastle University's Institute of Neuroscience who also runs a chemical castration program backed by the U.K.'s Ministry of Justice, was initially opposed to physical castration. After visiting the Czech Republic, however, he agreed that some form of castration might be of benefit to some sex offenders.\n\nIn nonhuman animals, the behavioral effects of gonad removal differ along lines of species and not sex, i.e. there are species where mating behavior ceases if the gonads are removed and other species where it does not cease, but removal of ovaries in females halt mating behavior in all of the same nonhuman animals in which male castration halts mating behavior. Therefore some scientists argue that the notion that castration/spaying would drastically reduce sex drive in human males but not in human females is zoologically nonsensical, citing that humans belong to the animal kingdom.\n\nSome criminologists argue that the apparently lower recidivism rates in castrated male sex offenders compared to non-castrated ones does not prove that it is a biological effect of castration (correlation does not equal causation) but can be explained by other factors. One suggested factor from game theory is that men who are willing to accept castration to get a shorter prison sentence are those who value freedom from prison higher than men who are not willing to pay the price for freedom in the form of their testicles. This hypothesis can explain their apparent lower recidivism as a result of working harder to conceal the evidence for their crimes, and argue that their parole is a danger of releasing offenders who only hide their crimes more efficiently and are not any less likely to commit new crimes. These criminologists also argue that police investigators treating castrated men as less likely to reoffend than non-castrated men may cause an investigation bias and self-fulfilling prophecy.\n\nCertain neurologists argue that while testosterone most likely increases internal sexual stimulation, a reduction of sex drive is unlikely to result in a reduction of inappropriate sexual behavior, as reduced internal stimulation from hormones merely increases the required external stimulation to reach orgasm. These neurologists cite that spreading of brain activity that stimulate more brain activity can increase their activity and tire the circuits out, the brain’s path to orgasm, enough to tire out with less external stimulation if the internal signal is stronger, and require more specific external stimulation to reach “satisfaction” if the internal signal is weaker. Therefore, they argue, a reduced testosterone level would make it more difficult, not easier, to manage remaining vestiges of sex drive by masturbating without the use of pornography or to otherwise get by with more socially and legally acceptable substitutes for desires that it would be unacceptable to act on. These neurologists also cite that many people, both men and women, find that higher levels of initial sexual arousal make it easier to masturbate to orgasm without the preferred type of external stimuli, as predicted by the hypothesis.\n\nIn Europe, when women were not permitted to sing in church or cathedral choirs in the Roman Catholic Church, boys were castrated to prevent their voices breaking at puberty and to develop a special high voice. The first documents mentioning \"castrati\" are Italian church records from the 1550s. In the baroque and classical music eras these singers were highly appreciated by opera composers as well. Mozart's \"Exultate Jubilate\", Allegri's \"Miserere\" and other pieces from this period now sung by sopranos and countertenors were written for \"castrati\". Some of the alto parts of Handel's Messiah were first sung by a \"castrato\". \"Castrati\" include Farinelli, Senesino, Carestini, and Caffarelli. The last true \"castrato\" was Alessandro Moreschi (1858–1922) who served in the Sistine Chapel Choir. It was not until the late 19th century that the Roman Catholic Church officially condemned the production of \"castrati\". In Modern times, the Mexican Javier Medina is the only professional opera singer that can perform as a castrato, since he suffered from an involuntary chemical castration, as a result from a cancer treatment that he had before he reached puberty.\n\nA number of religions have included castration as a central theme of their practice. These include:\n\n\nIn South Asia, many hijras live in well-defined, organized, all-hijra communities, led by a guru. The power of the hijras as a sexually ambiguous category can only be understood in the religious context of Hinduism. In some Hindu beliefs, ritual, and art, the power of the combined man/woman, or androgyne, is a frequent and significant theme. Bahuchara Mata, the main object of hijra veneration, is specifically associated with transvestism and transgenderism.\n\nWhile castration is not a major part of Christianity, Jesus himself acknowledged in a discussion about avoiding adultery and divorce that some are involuntarily castrated or born that way, while some others \"make themselves eunuchs\" willingly out of a desire to be chaste . Given Jesus' frequent use of metaphor and hyperbole, e.g. , the church has broadly discouraged any understanding of this passage as recommending literal \"self-castration\". That is consistent with Jesus' claims (as a rabbi) to uphold the Law given to Moses, e.g. , a Law which also discouraged literal castration . However, in his own comments Jesus had no condemnation for any of the above. In , a eunuch is baptized by Philip the Evangelist, demonstrating acceptance of castrated individuals in his church.\n\nThe first canon of the First Council of Nicaea in 325 AD forbid clergy members to voluntarily castrate themselves \"when in perfect health\", but freely accepted those who had been either castrated by others against their will, castrated due to a medical sickness or necessity, or those born as eunuchs.\n\nPaul, arguing against self-righteousness regarding circumcision in , says \"As for those agitators, I wish they would go the whole way and emasculate themselves!\" (NIV)\n\nWell-known Christian eunuchs (or alleged eunuchs) include:\n\n\nJudaism strictly forbids the castration of either humans or animals. Deuteronomy 23:1 expels castrated men from the assembly of Israel; they are forbidden to marry or if married must divorce from their wives (though permitting the castrated to marry or remain married to female converts to Judaism). The laws of castration including cases of irreversible or un-reversed vasectomy and all other cases where the flow of sperm is known to have been placed into a permanent state of dysfunction with either no hope or no desire to take the steps to repair. This interpretation reinforced by Isaiah 56:3–5 encourages eunuchs who follow after God's laws.\n\nAccording to Rashi, Kham (Ham) castrated his father Noah.\n\nIn Judaism, castrated animals are deemed unfit for sacrifice in the Temple in Jerusalem (). Castrated members of the priestly caste are forbidden to enter certain parts of the temple, to approach the altar, or to make sacrifices, although they could eat their share of the offerings and receive the priestly and Levite gifts (Lev. 21:16–24).\n\nIn Islam castration is considered a sin, whether one performs it on himself or on another. As Abdullah ibn Mas'ood said \"We were on a campaign with the Messenger of Allah (blessings and peace of Allah be upon him), and we had no women with us. We said: Why don’t we get ourselves castrated? But he forbade us to do that.\" The wisdom behind the prohibition on castration is that it is contrary to what the Lawgiver wants of increasing reproduction to ensure continuation of jihad against the disbelievers. Otherwise, if permission had been given for that, then many people would have done that, and reproduction would have ceased, and the numbers of Muslims would have become less as a result, and the numbers of disbelievers would have increased, and that is contrary to the purpose for which the Prophet (blessings and peace of Allah be upon him) was sent. \n\n\nA subject of castration who is altered before the onset of puberty will retain a high voice, non-muscular build, and small genitals. He may well be shorter than average, as the production of sex hormones in puberty—more specifically, estrogen via aromatization of testosterone—stops long bone growth. The person may not develop pubic hair and will have a small sex drive or none at all.\n\nCastrations after the onset of puberty will typically reduce the sex drive considerably or eliminate it altogether. Castrated people are automatically sterile, because the testes (for males) and ovaries (for females) produce sex cells needed for sexual reproduction. Once removed, the subject is infertile. The voice does not change. Some castrated people report mood changes, such as depression or a more serene outlook on life, although this might not be due to chemical changes but instead emotional changes due to the implications of the procedure. Body strength and muscle mass can decrease somewhat. Body hair may sometimes decrease. Castration prevents male pattern baldness if it is done before hair is lost. However, castration will not restore hair growth after hair has already been lost due to male pattern baldness.\n\nHistorically, many eunuchs who additionally underwent a penectomy reportedly suffered from urinary incontinence associated with the removal of the penis.\n\nWithout hormone replacement therapy (HRT), typical symptoms (similar to those experienced by menopausal women) include hot flashes, gradual bone-density loss resulting in osteopenia or osteoporosis, and potential weight gain or redistribution of body fat to the hips and chest. Replacement of testosterone in the form of gel, patches, or injections can largely reverse these effects, although breast enlargement has also been reported as a possible side effect of testosterone usage.\n\nA study conducted at a mental institution in Kansas, where a large number of male inmates had been castrated, found that the eunuchs lived an average of 14 years longer than the uncastrated men. A similar study of 81 historical eunuchs in Korea's royal court found a 14 to 19 year increase in lifespan compared to intact men of similar socioeconomic background; these eunuchs had a centenarian rate of over 3%.\n\nThe concept of castration plays an important role in psychoanalysis; \"see\", for example, castration anxiety.\n\nCastration (as a metaphor) also plays an important role in psychoanalytically-influenced literary theory, for example Harold Bloom's \"The Anxiety of Influence\".\n\nIn the Mexican thriller \"La casa del pelícano\", castration is shown as being connected to the Oedipus complex.\n\nIn the case of chemical castration, ongoing regular injections of anti-androgens are required. Chemical castration does not actually remove the testicles or ovaries of the subject, nor is it a form of sterilization.\n\nChemical castration seems to have a greater effect on bone density than physical castration. Since the development of teriparatide, this severe bone loss has been able to be reversed in nearly every case. At this time there is a limitation on the use of this medication to 24 months until the long-term use is better evaluated.\n\nWith the advent of chemical castration, physical castration is not generally recommended by the medical community unless medically necessary or desired, though some have undergone the procedure voluntarily.\n\nHumans commonly castrate domestic animals not intended for breeding.\nDomestic animals are usually castrated to avoid unwanted or uncontrolled reproduction; to reduce or prevent other manifestations of sexual behaviour such as defending the herd from humans and other threats, or intra-herd aggression (e.g. fighting between groups of entire (uncastrated) males of a species); or to reduce other consequences of sexual behavior that may make animal husbandry more difficult, such as boundary/fence/enclosure destruction when attempting to get to nearby females of the species.\n\nMale horses are usually castrated (gelded) using emasculators, because stallions are rather aggressive and troublesome. The same applies to male mules, although they are sterile. Male cattle are castrated to improve fattening and docility in feedlots or for use as oxen.\nBreeding individuals are kept entire and used for breeding: they may fetch higher prices when sold.\n\nLivestock may be castrated when used for food to increase growth or weight or both of individual male animals and because of the undesirable taste and odor of the meat from sexually mature males. In domestic pigs the taint, called boar taint, is caused by androstenone and skatole concentrations stored in the fat tissues of the animal after sexual maturity. Boar taint is only found in a small minority of pigs and can be controlled through breeding selection, diet and management. It is released when the fat is heated and has a distinct odor and flavor that is widely considered unpalatable to consumers. Consequently, in commercial meat production, male pigs are either castrated shortly after birth or slaughtered before they reach sexual maturity. Recent research in Brazil has shown that castration of pigs is unnecessary because most pigs do not have the 'boar taint'. This is due to many breeds of pigs simply not having the heredity for the boar taint and the fact that pigs are normally slaughtered at a young market weight.\n\nIn the case of pets, castration is usually called neutering, and is encouraged to prevent overpopulation of the community by unwanted animals, and to reduce certain diseases such as prostate disease and testicular cancer in male dogs (oophorectomy in female pets is often called spaying). Testicular cancer is rare in dogs, and also prostate problems are somewhat common in castrated male dogs when they get older. Neutered individuals have a much higher risk of developing prostate problems in comparison. Castrated male cats are more likely to develop an obstruction in their urethra, preventing them from urinating to some degree. A specialized vocabulary has arisen for neutered animals of given species:\n\nAn incompletely castrated male in livestock species (horse and cattle) is known as a \"rig\".\n\nThe term \"stag\" is used for a male animal castrated after the secondary sex characteristics have developed to such a point as to give him the appearance of sexual maturity.\nMethods of veterinary castration include instant surgical removal, the use of an elastrator tool to secure a band around the testicles that disrupts the blood supply, the use of a Burdizzo tool or emasculators to crush the spermatic cords and disrupt the blood supply, pharmacological injections and implants and immunological techniques to inoculate the animal against his own sexual hormones.\n\nCertain animals, like horses and swine, are usually surgically treated with a scrotal castration (which can be done with the animal standing while sedated and after local anesthetic has been applied), while others, like dogs and cats, are anesthetised and recumbent when surgically castrated with a pre-scrotal incision in the case of dogs, or a pre-scrotal or scrotal incision used for cats.\n\nIn veterinary practice an \"open\" castration refers to a castration in which the inguinal tunic is incised and not sutured. A \"closed\" castration refers to when the procedure is performed so that the inguinal tunic is sutured together after incision.\n\nSome parasitic nematodes chemically castrate their hosts. For example, \"Microphallus pseudopygmaeus\" chemically castrates its host, the snail \"Onoba aculeus\", and causes it to grow larger than normal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3066480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3066480", "title": "Cerebral infarction", "text": "Cerebral infarction\n\nA cerebral infarction is an area of necrotic tissue in the brain resulting from a blockage or narrowing in the arteries supplying blood and oxygen to the brain. The restricted oxygen due to the restricted blood supply causes an ischemic stroke that can result in an infarction if the blood flow is not restored within a relatively short period of time. The blockage can be due to a thrombus, an embolus or an atheromatous stenosis of one or more arteries. Which arteries are problematic will determine which areas of the brain are affected (infarcted). These varying infarcts will produce different symptoms and outcomes. About one third will prove fatal.\n\nThere are various classification systems for a cerebral infarction.\n\n\nSymptoms of cerebral infarction are determined by the parts of the brain affected. If the infarct is located in primary motor cortex, contralateral hemiparesis is said to occur. With brainstem localization, brainstem syndromes are typical: Wallenberg's syndrome, Weber's syndrome, Millard-Gubler syndrome, Benedikt syndrome or others.\nInfarctions will result in weakness and loss of sensation on the opposite side of the body. Physical examination of the head area will reveal abnormal pupil dilation, light reaction and lack of eye movement on opposite side. If the infarction occurs on the left side brain, speech will be slurred. Reflexes may be aggravated as well.\n\nMajor risk factors for cerebral infarction are generally the same as for atherosclerosis: high blood pressure, Diabetes mellitus, tobacco smoking, obesity, and dyslipidemia. The American Heart Association/American Stroke Association (AHA/ASA) recommends controlling these risk factors in order to prevent stroke. The AHA/ASA guidelines also provide information on how to prevent stroke if someone has more specific concerns, such as Sickle-cell disease or pregnancy. It is also possible to calculate the risk of stroke in the next decade based on information gathered through the Framingham Heart Study.\n\nWhether a cerebral infarction is thrombotic or embolic based, its pathophysiology, or the observed conditions and underlying mechanisms of the disease. In thrombotic ischemic stroke, a thrombus forms and blocks blood flow. A thrombus forms when the endothelium is activated by a variety of signals to result in platelet aggregation in the artery. This clump of platelets interacts with fibrin to form a platelet plug. This platelet plug grows into a thrombus, resulting in a stenotic artery. Thrombotic ischemia can occur in large or small blood vessels. In large vessels, the most common causes of thrombi are atherosclerosis and vasoconstriction. In small vessels, the most common cause is lipohyalinosis. Lipohyalinosis is when high blood pressure and aging causes a build-up of fatty hyaline matter in blood vessels. Atheroma formation can also cause small vessel thrombotic ischemic stroke.\n\nAn embolic stroke refers to the blockage of an artery by an embolus, a traveling particle or debris in the arterial bloodstream originating elsewhere. An embolus is most frequently a thrombus, but it can also be a number of other substances including fat (e.g. from bone marrow in a broken bone), air, cancer cells or clumps of bacteria (usually from infectious endocarditis). The embolus may be of cardiac origin due to Atrial fibrillation, Patent foramen ovale or from atherosclerotic plaque of another (or the same) large artery. Cerebral artery gas embolism (e.g. during ascent from a SCUBA dive) is also a possible cause of infarction (Levvett & Millar, 2008)\n\nComputed tomography (CT) and MRI scanning will show damaged area in the brain, showing that the symptoms were not caused by a tumor, subdural hematoma or other brain disorder. The blockage will also appear on the angiogram.\n\nIn last decade, similar to myocardial infarction treatment, thrombolytic drugs were introduced in the therapy of cerebral infarction. The use of intravenous rtPA therapy can be advocated in patients who arrive to stroke unit and can be fully evaluated within 3 h of the onset.\n\nIf cerebral infarction is caused by a thrombus occluding blood flow to an artery supplying the brain, definitive therapy is aimed at removing the blockage by breaking the clot down (thrombolysis), or by removing it mechanically (thrombectomy). The more rapidly blood flow is restored to the brain, the fewer brain cells die. In increasing numbers of primary stroke centers, pharmacologic thrombolysis with the drug tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), is used to dissolve the clot and unblock the artery.\nAnother intervention for acute cerebral ischaemia is removal of the offending thrombus directly. This is accomplished by inserting a catheter into the femoral artery, directing it into the cerebral circulation, and deploying a corkscrew-like device to ensnare the clot, which is then withdrawn from the body. Mechanical embolectomy devices have been demonstrated effective at restoring blood flow in patients who were unable to receive thrombolytic drugs or for whom the drugs were ineffective, though no differences have been found between newer and older versions of the devices. The devices have only been tested on patients treated with mechanical clot embolectomy within eight hours of the onset of symptoms.\n\nAngioplasty and stenting have begun to be looked at as possible viable options in treatment of acute cerebral ischaemia. In a systematic review of six uncontrolled, single-center trials, involving a total of 300 patients, of intra-cranial stenting in symptomatic intracranial arterial stenosis, the rate of technical success (reduction to stenosis of <50%) ranged from 90-98%, and the rate of major peri-procedural complications ranged from 4-10%. The rates of restenosis and/or stroke following the treatment were also favorable. This data suggests that a large, randomized controlled trial is needed to more completely evaluate the possible therapeutic advantage of this treatment.\n\nIf studies show carotid stenosis, and the patient has residual function in the affected side, carotid endarterectomy (surgical removal of the stenosis) may decrease the risk of recurrence if performed rapidly after cerebral infarction. Carotid endarterectomy is also indicated to decrease the risk of cerebral infarction for symptomatic carotid stenosis (>70 to 80% reduction in diameter).\n\nIn tissue losses that are not immediately fatal, the best course of action is to make every effort to restore impairments through physical therapy, cognitive therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy and exercise.\n"}
{"id": "1977225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1977225", "title": "Codd's cellular automaton", "text": "Codd's cellular automaton\n\nCodd's cellular automaton is a cellular automaton (CA) devised by the British computer scientist Edgar F. Codd in 1968. It was designed to recreate the computation- and construction-universality of von Neumann's CA but with fewer states: 8 instead of 29. Codd showed that it was possible to make a self-reproducing machine in his CA, in a similar way to von Neumann's universal constructor, but never gave a complete implementation.\n\nIn the 1940s and '50s, John von Neumann posed the following problem:\nHe was able to construct a cellular automaton with 29 states, and with it a universal constructor. Codd, building on von Neumann's work, found a simpler machine with eight states. This modified von Neumann's question:\n\nThree years after Codd's work, Edwin Roger Banks showed a 4-state CA in his PhD thesis that was also capable of universal computation and construction, but again did not implement a self-reproducing machine. John Devore, in his 1973 masters thesis, tweaked Codd's rules to greatly reduce the size of Codd's design, to the extent that it could be implemented in the computers of that time. However, the data tape for self-replication was too long; Devore's original design was later able to complete replication using Golly. Christopher Langton made another tweak to Codd's cellular automaton in 1984 to create Langton's loops, exhibiting self-replication with far fewer cells than that needed for self-reproduction in previous rules, at the cost of removing the ability for universal computation and construction.\n\nCodd's CA has eight states determined by a von Neumann neighborhood with rotational symmetry. \n\nThe table below shows the signal-trains needed to accomplish different tasks. Some of the signal trains need to be separated by two blanks (state 1) on the wire to avoid interference, so the 'extend' signal-train used in the image at the top appears here as '70116011'.\n\nCodd designed a self-replicating computer in the cellular automaton, based on Wang's W-machine. However, the design was so colossal that it evaded implementation until 2009, when Tim Hutton constructed an explicit configuration. There were some minor errors in Codd's design, so Hutton's implementation differs slightly, in both the configuration and the ruleset.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1510939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1510939", "title": "Comfort object", "text": "Comfort object\n\nA comfort object, transitional object, or security blanket is an item used to provide psychological comfort, especially in unusual or unique situations, or at bedtime for children. Among toddlers, comfort objects may take the form of a blanket, a stuffed animal, or a favorite toy, and may be referred to by nicknames.\n\nIn human childhood development, the term transitional object is normally used. It is something, usually a physical object, which takes the place of the mother-child bond. Common examples include dolls, teddy bears or blankets.\n\nDonald Woods Winnicott introduced the concepts of \"transitional objects\" and \"transitional experience\" in reference to a particular developmental sequence. With \"transition\" Winnicott means an intermediate developmental phase between the psychic and external reality. In this \"transitional space\" we can find the \"transitional object\".\n\nWhen the young child begins to separate the \"me\" from the \"not-me\" and evolves from complete dependence to a stage of relative independence, it uses transitional objects. Infants see themselves and the mother as a whole. In this phase the mother \"brings the world\" to the infant without delay which gives it a \"moment of illusion\", a belief that its own wish creates the object of its desire which brings with it a sense of satisfaction. Winnicott calls this subjective omnipotence. Alongside the subjective omnipotence of a child lies an objective reality, which constitutes the child’s awareness of separateness between itself and desired objects. While the subjective omnipotence experience is one in which the child feels that its desires create satisfaction, the objective reality experience is one in which the child independently seeks out objects of desire.\n\nLater on the child comes to realize that the mother is a separate entity, which tells the child that they have lost something. The child realizes that they are dependent on others, thus losing the idea that they are independent. This realization creates a difficult period and brings frustration and anxiety with it. The mother cannot always be there to \"bring the world\" to the baby, a realization which has a powerful, somewhat painful, but ultimately constructive impact on the child. Through fantasizing about the object of its wishes the child will find comfort. A transitional object can be used in this process. The transitional object is often the first \"not me\" possession that really belongs to the child. This could be a real object like a blanket or a teddy bear, but other \"objects\", such as a melody or a word, can fulfill this role as well. This object represents all components of \"mothering\", and it means that the child itself is able to create what it needs as well. It enables the child to have a fantasized bond with the mother when she gradually separates for increasingly longer periods of time. The transitional object is important at the time of going to sleep and as a defence against anxiety.\n\nIn a later stage of the development the child no longer needs the transitional object. It is able to make a distinction between \"me\" and \"not-me\", and keeping inside and outside apart and yet interrelated. This development leads to the use of illusion, symbols and objects later on in life.\n\nWinnicott related the concept of transitional object to a more general one, transitional phenomena, which he considered to be the basis of science, religion and all of culture. Transitional objects and phenomena, he said, are neither subjective nor objective but partake of both. In \"Mental Space\", Robert Young has provided an exposition of these concepts and has generalized their role into psychic phenomena in adult life.\n\nResearch with children on this subject was performed at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee by Richard H. Passman and his associates. Among other findings, they showed that security blankets are appropriately named — they actually do give security to those children attached to them. Along with other positive benefits, having a security blanket available can help children adapt to new situations, aid in their learning, and adjust to physicians' and clinical psychologists' evaluations. Passman's research also points out that there is nothing abnormal about being attached to them. In the United States, about 60% of children have at least some attachment to a security object.\n\nEmergency vehicles and police patrol cars are sometimes equipped with stuffed toys, to be given to victims involved in car accidents or traumatic shock situations in order to provide them comfort.\n\nOften charities will provide comfort objects such as blankets and quilts to survivors of disasters.\n\nWeighted blankets, and other items like vests and shoulder wraps, have also been used by occupational therapists to relieve the symptoms of anxiety, especially on autistic patients, by promoting deep touch stimulation as a way to increase serotonin production, thereby providing a soothing sensation of security and comfort.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks, writes Marita Sturken in \"Tourists of History\", \"the Oklahoma City National Memorial sent six hundred teddy bears and then the state of Oklahoma sent sixty thousand stuffed animals to New York, which were distributed to children in schools affected by 9/11, family support organizations, and New York fire stations.\"\n\nAdults may also use comfort objects. Many adults consider the comfort that \"security blankets\" provide as essential to their mental and emotional well-being. Additionally, according to a 2011 survey by Travelodge, about 35 percent of British adults still sleep with a teddy bear.\n\nThe notion of a comfort object may be expanded to include representations of one’s family, home, and culture. It is significant to the person and gives psychological strength and assistance by representing their emotional attachments. These objects can include photographs, memorabilia, music records or even artwork made with family members. With the increase in movement away from home and consistent movement from one place to another for job opportunities or immigration, it is very common for people to carry these items with them. People may look to these objects for emotional support during transitional periods, such as assimilating to a new area or when experiencing trauma or a significant loss.\n\nInventor Richard Kopelle created \"My Therapy Buddy\" (MTB) in 2002 as a self-described transitional object to benefit \"one's emotional well-being\". The blue creature speaks to you when you squeeze it and says any of a number of phrases that include \"everything is going to be alright.\" The invention was rejected in the first season of \"American Inventor\", but went on to become a semi-finalist in the second season. My Therapy Buddy also appeared on Shark Tank but did not receive any offers.\n\nIn a 2008 study, the Sony AIBO robotic pet was found to decrease loneliness in the elderly in nursing homes.\n\nResearchers have observed that the incidence of attachment behavior toward inanimate objects differs depending on the culture in which the infant was raised. It is suggested that infants’ attachment to inanimate objects would be less frequent in societies in which in an infant may spend most of the day in close contact with his mother. In particular, in Western countries object attachments were indeed found to be common, with rates reaching as high as 60%. In a study conducted by Michael Hong, it was found that around 50% of American children and only around 20% of Korean children developed an attachment to a blanket or an equivalent type of primary transitional objects. A similar study by Renata Gaddini found that around 30% of urban Italian children and only 5% of rural Italian children developed attachments to comfort objects. The interpretation of multiple studies suggests that child-rearing practices influence both the incidence of infants’ attachment to inanimate objects and perhaps the choice of attachment objects.\n\nThe term \"security blanket\" was popularized in the \"Peanuts\" comic strip created by Charles M. Schulz, who gave such a blanket to his character Linus van Pelt. Linus called it his \"security and happiness blanket\", in \"Good Grief, More Peanuts\" printed in 1956. However, the concept of a comfort blanket existed prior to \"Peanuts\". In a November 1954 \"Review Report\" article, writer \"Bev\" wrote about her daughter: \"Security blanket. My younger child is one year old. When she finds a fuzzy blanket or a fleecy coat she presses her cheek against it and sucks her thumb.\" Since 1920, blankets which clipped onto sleeping infants to prevent them from rolling out of bed and keep the body covered were dubbed \"security blanket fasteners\".\n\nIn the film \"The Producers\", Leo Bloom is prone to panic attacks and to keep himself calm, he carries a fragment of his childhood blue blanket everywhere he goes and goes into hysterics when someone takes it from him until they give it back to him.\n\nIn the film \"The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland\", Elmo loves his fuzzy, blue Blanket more than anything else, to the point of not wanting to share it, as it is very special to him and setting out on an epic quest to get it back when it is stolen.\n\nIn the book \"The Giver\", \"comfort object\" is used as a term to refer to all stuffed animals. The comfort objects are described as being \"imaginary creatures with funny names\" because the utopian community where the book takes place has no animals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2514849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514849", "title": "Cutlet", "text": "Cutlet\n\nCutlet (derived from French \"côtelette\", \"côte\", \"rib\") refers to:\n\n\nFrom the late 1700s until about 1900, virtually all recipes for \"cutlets\" in English-language cookbooks referenced veal cutlets. Then pork cutlets began to appear. More recently, in American cuisine, cutlets have also been made using chicken, although this was also imported from Europe. The cutlet is usually coated with flour, egg and bread crumbs, then fried in a pan with some oil. Cutlets are used in several different meals.\n\nAustralians eat lamb cutlets battered with egg yolk and breadcrumbs. Chicken cutlets are also very popular, but known as chicken schnitzel. Both lamb cutlets and chicken schnitzel are a staple of Australian children's cuisine. Amongst most Australians of Italian descent, the term schnitzel is replaced by the term cutlet. Cutlets amongst this population are usually veal or chicken.\n\nIn British cuisine a cutlet is usually unbreaded and can also be called a chop. If referring to beef, more than one piece together would be generally called a rib of beef or a rib joint, whilst lamb ribs are called a rack, or rack of lamb. Lamb racks can also be tied into a circular shape before cooking, with the ribs on the outside, giving a crown shape, leading to the name \"crown of lamb\".\n\nIn Hong Kong the cutlet was introduced during the period of British colonial occupation along with other cooking influences. It is seen as \"sai chaan\" or Western cuisine. Veal, pork and chicken are battered and deep fried for lunch. Seafood such as shrimp or scallop that is battered or breaded and deep fried such as can also be known as 'cutlet' in Hong Kong. It is usually served alongside rice or spaghetti noodles.\n\nIn Indian cuisine, a cutlet specifically refers to mashed vegetables (potato, carrot, beans) or cooked meat (mutton, beef, fish or chicken) stuffing that is fried with a batter/covering. The meat itself is cooked with spices - onion, cardamom, cloves, cinnamon, coriander (cilantro), green chillies, lemon and salt. This is then dipped in an egg mix or Corn starch and then in Bread crumbs (also see breaded cutlet), and fried in ghee or vegetable oil. Mostly chicken and mutton cutlets are very popular snacks in the city of Kolkata.\n\nThe vegetarian version has no meat in it, instead the filling is a combination of mashed potatoes, onion, green chillies, spices and salt, cooked for a bit together. This version is more popular with the vegetarian Indian population. An example is the Aloo Tikki.\n\nIn Iran, cutlet (Persian: کتلت) is a popular hamburger like thin layered fried of mixture of ground beef, mashed potatoes, eggs, onions, spices and bread crumbs.\n\nThe use of the cutlet (cotoletta) is quite widespread in Italian cuisine in many different variations. The most famous variant is the Milanese cutlet (\"cotoletta alla milanese\"), a veal cutlet covered in bread crumbs and fried in butter. It should not be mistaken for the \"Wiener schnitzel\" (which should be referred as a \"scaloppina alla viennese\", or as \"fettina impanata\" in Italian), because it's a different cut of meat; the Milanese cutlet cut includes the bone, whereas the Wienerschnitzel doesn't. It is disputed whether the \"cotoletta alla milanese\" originated the Wienerschnitzel, or vice versa.\n\nThe cutlet was introduced to Japan during the Meiji period, in a Western cuisine restaurant in the fashionable Ginza district of Tokyo. The Japanese pronunciation of cutlet is \"katsuretsu\".\n\nIn Japanese cuisine, \"katsuretsu\" or shorter \"katsu\" is actually the name for a Japanese version of the Wiener schnitzel, a breaded cutlet. Dishes with \"katsu\" include tonkatsu and katsudon.\n\nThe Polish pork cutlet, kotlet schabowy, is a pork chop coated with breadcrumbs. Kotlet schabowy can be served with mashed potatoes, home fries, pierogi, fried mushrooms, cooked vegetables (cabbage), with salads or with coleslaw. \"Kotlet z kurczaka\" is a chicken cutlet coated with breadcrumbs. \"Kotlet z indyka\" is a turkey cutlet coated with breadcrumbs.\n\nIn modern Russian, the word \"kotleta\" (котлета) refers almost exclusively to pan-fried minced meat croquettes / cutlet-shaped patties. Bread soaked in milk, onions, garlic, and herbs is usually present in the recipe. When in a hurry, a \"cutlet\" can be eaten between bread slices like a hamburger, but this fast meal is rarely served in restaurants. At home, it is most often served with pan-fried potatoes, mashed potatoes, pasta, etc.\n\nIn the middle of the 20th century, industrially produced, semi-processed ground meat cutlets were introduced in the USSR. Colloquially known as Mikoyan cutlets (named after Soviet politician Anastas Mikoyan), these were cheap pork or beef cutlet-shaped patties which resembled American burgers.\n\nA particular form known as Pozharsky cutlet is an elaborated version of minced poultry \"kotleta\" covered with breadcrumbs. A distinct feature of this cutlet is that butter is added to minced meat, which results in an especially juicy and tender consistency.\n\nAnother Russian version of a cutlet, called \"otbivnaya kotleta\" (), meaning \"beaten cutlet\", is a fried slice of meat, usually pork or beef, beaten flat with a tenderizing hammer or knife handle and covered with beaten eggs, dough or breadcrumbs. The recipe is similar to those of escalopes, schnitzel, Polish, or American cutlets. Today, this dish is simply called \"otbivnaya\", with the word \"kotleta\" reserved for minced meat patties.\n\nChicken Kiev is called \"kotleta po-kievski\" () in Russian and similarly \"kotleta po-kyivski\" () in Ukrainian, which means \"Kiev-style cutlet\".\n"}
{"id": "13217972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13217972", "title": "Death of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart", "text": "Death of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart\n\nThe composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart died on 5 December 1791 at the age of 35. The circumstances of his death have attracted much research and speculation. Some principal sources of contention are as follows.\n\n\nMozart scholarship long followed the accounts of early biographers, which proceeded in large part from the recorded memories of his widow Constanze and her sister Sophie Weber as they were recorded in the biographies by Franz Niemetschek and Georg Nikolaus von Nissen. For instance, the important biography by Hermann Abert (1923/2008:1305-9) largely follows this account. The following is a summary of this view.\n\nWhen in August 1791 Mozart arrived in Prague to supervise the performance of his new opera \"La clemenza di Tito\" (K. 621), he was \"already very ill\" (Abert, p. 1305). During this visit, Niemetschek wrote, \"he was pale and expression was sad, although his good humour was often shown in merry jest with his friends.\" Following his return to Vienna (mid September 1791), Mozart's condition gradually worsened. For a while, he was still able to work and completed his Clarinet Concerto (K. 622), worked toward the completion of his Requiem (K. 626), and conducted the premiere performance of \"The Magic Flute\" (K. 620) on 30 September. Still, he became increasingly alarmed and despondent about his health. An anecdote from Constanze is related by Niemetschek:\n\nConstanze attempted to cheer her husband by persuading him to give up work on the Requiem for a while, encouraging him instead to complete the \"Freimaurerkantate\" (K. 623), composed to celebrate the opening of a new Masonic temple for Mozart's own lodge. The strategy worked for a time – the cantata was completed and successfully premiered on 18 November. He told Constanze he felt \"elated\" over the premiere. Mozart is reported to have stated, \"Yes I see I was ill to have had such an absurd idea of having taken poison, give me back the Requiem and I will go on with it.\"\n\nMozart's worst symptoms of illness soon returned, together with the strong feeling that he was being poisoned. He became bedridden on 20 November, suffering from swelling, pain and vomiting.\n\nFrom this point on, scholars are all agreed that Mozart was indeed very sick, and he died about two weeks later, on December 5 (see below).\n\nThe view that Mozart was in near-steady decline and despair during the last several months of his life has met with skepticism in recent years. Cliff Eisen supervised the reissue of Abert's biography in 2008 in a new edition, supplementing it with numerous footnotes. While generally deferential to Abert, Eisen expresses sharp criticism in the footnoting of the section leading up to Mozart's death:\n\nIn the main biography article of the \"Cambridge Mozart Encyclopedia\", Ruth Halliwell writes of the decline-and-despair account:\n\nAs for why Constanze might have been \"prompted by complicated motives both personal and financial\" (Eisen), Halliwell contends that \"Constanze and Sophie were not objective witnesses, because Constanze's continuing quest for charity gave her reasons to disseminate sentimental and sensationalist views.\" By \"charity\" Halliwell may be referring to the many benefit concerts from which Constanze received income in the years following Mozart's death, as well as, perhaps, the pension she received from the Emperor; see discussion below as well as Constanze Mozart.\n\nChristoph Wolff, in a 2012 book entitled \"Mozart at the Gateway to his Fortune\", disputes the view that Mozart's last years represented a steady slide to despair and the grave; he also disagrees with interpretations of the music as reflecting late-life despair (for example) \"the hauntingly beautiful autumnal world of [Mozart's] music written in 1791\".\n\nIndividuals present at the time of Mozart's death eventually committed their memories to writing, either on their own or through interviews by others. The stories they told are often contradictory, which may be due in part to some of the events not being recorded until the 1820s, when the witnesses' memories might have faded.\n\nBenedikt Schack, Mozart's close friend for whom he wrote the role of Tamino in \"The Magic Flute\", told an interviewer that on the last day of Mozart's life, he participated in a rehearsal of the \"Requiem\" in progress. Schack's questionable account appeared in an obituary for Schack which was published in the 25 July 1827 issue of the \"Allgemeine musikalische Zeitung\":\n\nBiographer Niemetschek relates vaguely similar account, leaving out a rehearsal:\n\nThe widely repeated claim that, on his deathbed, Mozart dictated passages of the \"Requiem\" to his pupil Süssmayr is strongly discounted by Solomon, who notes that the earliest reference for this claim dates to 1856. Sophie Weber did claim to recall, however, that Mozart gave instructions to Süssmayr.\n\nAn 1840 letter from the composer Ignaz von Seyfried states that on his last night, Mozart was mentally occupied with the currently running opera \"The Magic Flute\". Mozart is said to have whispered the following to Constanze in reference to her sister Josepha Hofer, the coloratura soprano who premiered the role of the Queen of the Night:\n\nSolomon, while noting that Mozart's biographers often left out the \"crueler memories\" surrounding his death, stated, \"Constanze Mozart told Nissen that just before the end Mozart asked her what [his physician] Dr. Closset had said. When she answered with a soothing lie, he said, 'It isn't true,' and he was very distressed: 'I shall die, now when I am able to take care of you and the children. Ah, now I will leave you unprovided for.' And as he spoke these words, 'suddenly he vomited —it gushed out of him in an arc— it was brown, and he was dead.'\" Mozart's older, seven-year-old son Karl was present at his father's death and later wrote, \"Particularly remarkable is in my opinion the fact that a few days before he died, his whole body became so swollen that the patient was unable to make the smallest movement, moreover, there was stench, which reflected an internal disintegration which, after death, increased to the extent that an autopsy was impossible.\"\n\nThe funeral arrangements were made by Mozart's friend and patron Baron Gottfried van Swieten. Describing his funeral, the \"Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians\" states, \"Mozart was buried in a common grave, in accordance with contemporary Viennese custom, at the St. Marx Cemetery outside the city on 7 December.\" Otto Jahn wrote in 1856 that Salieri, Süssmayr, van Swieten and two other musicians were present.\n\nThe common belief that Mozart was buried in a pauper's grave is also without foundation. The \"common grave\" referred to above is a term for a grave belonging to a citizen not of the aristocracy. It was an individual grave, not a communal grave; but after ten years the city had the right to dig it up and use it for a later burial. The graves of the aristocracy were spared such treatment.\n\nA description of Mozart's funeral, attributed to Joseph Deiner, appeared in the Vienna \"Morgen-Post\" of 28 January 1856:\n\nAs Slonimsky (1960:12-14) notes, the tale was widely adopted and incorporated into Mozart biographies.\n\nDeiner's description of the weather is contrary to records kept of the previous day. The diarist Karl Zinzendorf recorded on 6 December that there had been \"mild weather and frequent mist\". The Vienna Observatory kept weather records and recorded for 6 December a temperature ranging from 37.9 to 38.8 degrees Fahrenheit (2.8 °C–3.8 °C), with \"a weak east wind at all ... times of the day\" (Slonimsky 1960:16).\n\nFollowing her husband's death, Constanze addressed the issue of providing financial security for her family; the Mozarts had two young children, and Mozart had died with outstanding debts. She successfully appealed to the Emperor on 11 December 1791 for a widow's pension due to her as a result of Mozart's service to the Emperor as a part-time chamber composer. Additionally, she organized a series of concerts of Mozart's music and the publication of many of her husband's works. As a result, Constanze became financially secure over time.\n\nSoon after the composer's death a Mozart biography was started by Friedrich Schlichtegroll, who wrote an early account based on information from Mozart's sister, Nannerl. Working with Constanze, Franz Niemetschek wrote a biography as well. Much later, Constanze assisted her second husband, Georg Nikolaus von Nissen, on a more detailed biography published in 1826. See \"Biographies of Mozart\".\n\nMozart's musical reputation rose following his death; 20th-century biographer Maynard Solomon describes an \"unprecedented wave of enthusiasm\" for his work after he died, and a number of publishers issued editions of his compositions.\n\nWhat may have been Mozart's skull was exhumed in 1801, and in 1989–1991 it was examined for identification by several scientists.\n\nAn early rumor addressing the cause of Mozart's death was that he was poisoned by his colleague Antonio Salieri. This rumor, however, was not proven to be true as the signs of illness Mozart displayed did not indicate poisoning. Despite denying the allegation, Salieri was greatly affected by the accusations that he had contributed to Mozart's death and contributed to his nervous breakdowns in later life.\n\nBeyond the Salieri theory, other theories involving murder by poison have been put forth, blaming the Masons, Jews, or both. One such theory was the work of Mathilde Ludendorff, wife of the German general Erich Ludendorff. William Stafford (1991) describes such accounts as outlandish conspiracy theories, giving supporting reasons.\n\nStafford (1991:56) described the effort to determine what disease killed Mozart:\n\nIn the parish register, the entry concerning Mozart's death states he died of \"severe miliary fever\"; – \"miliary\" referring to the appearance of millet-sized bumps on the skin. This does not name the actual disease.\n\nMozart had health problems throughout his life, suffering from smallpox, tonsillitis, bronchitis, pneumonia, typhoid fever, rheumatism, and gum disease. Whether these played any role in his demise cannot be determined.\n\nConjectures as to what killed Mozart are numerous. The following survey is arranged in rough chronological order.\n\nSome ascribe Mozart's death to malpractice on the part of his physician, Dr. Closset. His sister-in-law Sophie Weber, in her 1825 account, makes the implication. Borowitz summarizes:\n\nIn a journal article from 2011, it was suggested that Vitamin D deficiency could have played a role in Mozart's underlying medical conditions leading to his death.\n\nA suggestion is that Mozart died as a result of his hypochondriasis and his predilection for taking patent medicines containing antimony. In his final days, this was compounded by further prescriptions of antimony to relieve the fever he clearly suffered.\n\nA 1994 article in \"Neurology\" suggests Mozart died of a subdural hematoma. A skull believed to be Mozart's was saved by the successor of the gravedigger who had supervised Mozart's burial, and later passed on to anatomist Josef Hyrtl, the municipality of Salzburg, and the Mozarteum museum (Salzburg). Forensic reconstruction of soft tissues related to the skull reveals substantial concordance with Mozart's portraits. Examination of the skull suggested a premature closure of the metopic suture, which has been suggested on the basis of his physiognomy. A left temporal fracture and concomitant erosions raise the question of a chronic subdural hematoma, which would be consistent with several falls in 1789 and 1790 and could have caused the weakness, headaches, and fainting Mozart experienced in 1790 and 1791. Additionally, aggressive bloodletting used to treat suspected rheumatic fever could have decompensated such a lesion, leading to his death.\n\nIn a 2000 publication, a team of two physicians (Faith T. Fitzgerald, Philip A. Mackowiak) and a musicologist (Neal Zaslaw) reviewed the historical evidence and tentatively opted for a diagnosis of rheumatic fever.\n\nThe hypothesis of trichinosis was put forth by Jan V. Hirschmann in 2001.\n\nIn 2009, British, Viennese and Dutch researchers performed epidemiological research combined with a study of other deaths in Vienna at the time of Mozart's death. They concluded that Mozart may have died of a streptococcal infection leading to an acute nephritic syndrome caused by poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis. This disease was also called \"Wassersucht\" in Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "665233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665233", "title": "Deathbed conversion", "text": "Deathbed conversion\n\nA deathbed conversion is the adoption of a particular religious faith shortly before dying. Making a conversion on one's deathbed may reflect an immediate change of belief, a desire to formalize longer-term beliefs, or a desire to complete a process of conversion already underway. Claims of the deathbed conversion of famous or influential figures have also been used in history as rhetorical devices.\n\nConversions at the point of death have a long history. The first recorded deathbed conversion appears in the Gospel of Luke where the good thief, crucified beside Jesus, expresses belief in Christ. Jesus accepts his conversion, saying “Today you shall be with Me in Paradise\".\n\nPerhaps the most momentous conversion in Western history was that of Constantine I, Roman Emperor and later proclaimed a Christian Saint by the Eastern Orthodox Church. While his belief in Christianity occurred long before his death, it was only on his deathbed that he was baptised, in 337. While traditional sources disagree as to why this happened so late, modern historiography concludes that Constantine chose religious tolerance as an instrument to bolster his reign.\n\nCharles II of England reigned in a Protestant nation at a time of strong religious conflict. Though his sympathies were at least somewhat with the Catholic faith, he ruled as an Anglican, though he attempted to lessen the persecution and legal penalties affecting non-Anglicans in England, notably through the Royal Declaration of Indulgence. As he lay dying following a stroke, released of the political need, he was received into the Catholic Church.\n\nThe most famous French fabulist published a revised edition of his greatest work, \"Contes\", in 1692, the same year that he began to suffer a severe illness. Under such circumstances, Jean de La Fontaine turned to religion. A young priest, M. Poucet, tried to persuade him about the impropriety of the \"Contes\", and it is said that the destruction of a new play of some merit was demanded and submitted to as a proof of repentance. La Fontaine received the Viaticum, and the following years, he continued to write poems and fables. He died in 1695.\n\nSir Allan Napier MacNab, Canadian political leader, died 8 August 1862 in Hamilton, Ontario. His deathbed conversion to Catholicism caused a furor in the press in the following days. The \"Toronto Globe\" and the \"Hamilton Spectator\" expressed strong doubts about the conversion, and the Anglican rector of Christ Church in Hamilton declared that MacNab died a Protestant. MacNab's Catholic baptism is recorded at St. Mary's Cathedral in Hamilton, performed by John, Bishop of Hamilton, on 7 August 1862. Lending credibility to this conversion, MacNab's second wife, who predeceased him, was Catholic, and their two daughters were raised as Catholics.\n\nAuthor and wit Oscar Wilde converted to Catholicism during his final illness. Robert Ross gave a clear and unambiguous account: ‘When I went for the priest to come to his death-bed he was quite conscious and raised his hand in response to questions and satisfied the priest, Father Cuthbert Dunne of the Passionists. It was the morning before he died and for about three hours he understood what was going on (and knew I had come from the South in response to a telegram) that he was given the last sacrament. The Passionist house in Avenue Hoche, has a house journal which contains a record, written by Dunne, of his having received Wilde into full communion with the Church. While Wilde's conversion may have come as a surprise, he had long maintained an interest in the Catholic Church, having met with Pope Pius IX in 1877 and describing the Roman Catholic Church as \"for saints and sinners alone – for respectable people, the Anglican Church will do\". However, how much of a believer in all the tenets of Catholicism Wilde ever was is arguable: in particular, against Ross's insistence on the truth of Catholicism: \"No, Robbie, it isn't true.\" \"My position is curious,\" Wilde epigrammatised, \"I am not a Catholic: I am simply a violent Papist.\"\n\nIn his poem \"Ballad of Reading Gaol\", Wilde wrote:\n\nThe poet Wallace Stevens is said to have been baptized a Catholic during his last days suffering from stomach cancer. This account is disputed, particularly by Stevens's daughter, Holly, and critic, Helen Vendler, who, in a letter to James Wm. Chichetto, thought Fr. Arthur Hanley was \"forgetful\" since \"he was interviewed twenty years after Stevens' death.\" In his response, Chichetto noted that Vendler ignored \"the testimony of Dr. Edward Sennett (in charge of the Radiology Dept. at St. Francis Hospital when Stevens was admitted both times) and the Sisters with whom he [Chichetto] talked in 1977 (and later) who believed Fr. Hanley's account.\"\n\nOne famous example is Charles Darwin's deathbed conversion in which it was claimed by Lady Hope that Darwin said:\n\"How I wish I had not expressed my theory of evolution as I have done.\" He went on to say that he would like her to gather a congregation since he \"would like to speak to them of Christ Jesus and His salvation, being in a state where he was eagerly savoring the heavenly anticipation of bliss.\"\nLady Hope's story was printed in the \"Boston Watchman Examiner\". The story spread, and the claims were republished as late as October 1955 in the \"Reformation Review\" and in the \"Monthly Record\" of the Free Church of Scotland in February 1957.\n\nLady Hope's story is not supported by Darwin's children. Darwin's son Francis Darwin accused her of lying, saying that \"Lady Hope's account of my father's views on religion is quite untrue. I have publicly accused her of falsehood, but have not seen any reply.\" Darwin's daughter Henrietta Litchfield also called the story a fabrication, saying \"I was present at his deathbed. Lady Hope was not present during his last illness, or any illness. I believe he never even saw her, but in any case she had no influence over him in any department of thought or belief. He never recanted any of his scientific views, either then or earlier. We think the story of his conversion was fabricated in the U.S.A. The whole story has no foundation whatever.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "42358441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42358441", "title": "Deep lambertian networks", "text": "Deep lambertian networks\n\nDeep Lambertian Networks (DLN) is a combination of Deep belief network and Lambertian reflectance assumption which deals with the challenges posed by illumination variation in visual perception. Lambertian Reflectance model gives an illumination invariant representation which can be used for recognition. The Lambertian reflectance model is widely used for\nmodeling illumination variations and is a good approximation for diffuse object surfaces. The DLN is a hybrid undirected-directed generative model that combines DBNs with the Lambertian reflectance model.\n\nIn the DLN, the visible layer consists of image pixel intensities v ∈ R, where N is the number of pixels in the image. For every pixel i there are two latent variables namely the albedo and surface normal. GRBMs are used to model the albedo and surface normals.\n\nCombining Deep Belief Nets with the Lambertian reflectance assumption, the model can learn good priors over the albedo from 2D images. Illumination variations can be explained by changing only the lighting latent variable. By transferring learned knowledge from similar objects, albedo and surface normals estimation from a single image is also possible. Experiments demonstrate that this model is able to generalize as well as improve over standard baselines in one-shot face recognition.\n\nThe model has been successfully applied in reconstruction of shadows facial images, given any set of lighting conditions. The model has also been tested on non-living objects. The method outperforms most other methods and is faster than them.\n"}
{"id": "56188730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56188730", "title": "Dinosaur suit", "text": "Dinosaur suit\n\nDinosaur suits are a type of costumed character or creature suit resembling a dinosaur. Such costumes were used in film and television and as mascots for decades, reflecting dinosaurs' prominence in the arts and entertainment. Realistic dinosaur suits also gained popularity for live shows following the success of \"Walking with Dinosaurs − The Arena Spectacular\". They are also used in theme parks and in an educational context at various museums. Inflatable dinosaur suits have been used for pranks, gags, and protests.\n\nDinosaur suits were first used in early monster movies, such as \"Gorgo\" (1961), which featured a T-Rex like monster. They continued to be used in films such as \"\" (1985) which used animatronic brontosaurus suits with radio-controlled heads, and in television series like \"Dinosaurs\" (1991), a sitcom with a family of dinosaurs.\n\nThe film \"Jurassic Park\" (1993) used dinosaur suits for some of the creatures, such as velociraptors and pterodactyls. In modern-day movies such as \"Jurassic World\" (2015), this was instead done using CGI.\n\nIn children's television, Barney, an anthropomorphic purple dinosaur, was used in the show \"Barney & Friends\" alongside other dinosaurs, becoming widely known in pop culture.\n\nSome sports teams have dinosaur mascots represented by costumes, such as the Toronto Raptors.\n\nFor \"Walking with Dinosaurs − The Arena Spectacular\", puppet-suits of dinosaurs such as the baby T-Rex and Utahraptors were created by Creature Technology Co. for use on stage alongside larger remote-controlled animatronics. These suits had the performer's legs visible, to make the leg shape more realistic. Feathers were later added to them due to recent discoveries about dinosaur plumage. Because of the show's ongoing popularity, these types of suits also became popular for live appearances, with and without the performer's visible legs, and including other types of suits such as two-person triceratops and stegosaurus costumes.\n\nAs part of their Jurassic Park attractions, Universal Studios created several realistic dinosaur suits for their theme parks, including Velociraptors and a life size adult Triceratops that was also used to advertise the movies. The dinosaur suits utilised in Universal studios appear to replicate the method used for the dinosaurs in the classic Jurassic Park films. They are capable of complex behaviours such as roaring, snapping, trying to eat the guests or even showing affection in ways such as rubbing their heads or noses on the guests.\n\nDinosaur suits created by the company Erth are used to teach students about dinosaurs at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County in the \"Dinosaur Encounters\" show, including a baby triceratops and baby T-Rex. The vocalizations of the suits are made by the performers themselves through a microphone and speaker. Other museums also began to use dinosaur suits as attractions, such as THEMUSEUM in Ontario.\n\nA large group of people wearing dinosaur suits marched on Washington in 2017 to protest President Donald Trump's defunding of national service programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "54311937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54311937", "title": "Disappearance of Amy Wroe Bechtel", "text": "Disappearance of Amy Wroe Bechtel\n\nAmy Joy Wroe Bechtel (August 4, 1972 – disappeared July 24, 1997; declared legally dead 2004) is an American woman who disappeared while jogging in the Wind River Mountains approximately south of Lander, Wyoming. Despite extensive investigative work and media portrayals, her case remains unsolved . She was declared dead in absentia by her husband, rock climber Steve Bechtel, in 2004.\n\nBechtel was born Amy Joy Wroe in Santa Barbara, California in 1972. She graduated from the University of Wyoming, where she met her husband, Steve Bechtel. In college, Bechtel was a competitive long distance runner, and hoped to try out for the 2000 Summer Olympics.\n\nOn the morning of July 24, 1997, Bechtel told her husband, Steve, she was planning on running several errands in town after teaching a children's weight lifting class at the Wind River Fitness Center. She stopped at Camera Connection, a photo store near her home in Lander, around 2:30pm after teaching her class. Following her time at the photo store, she stopped by Gallery 331, where she spoke to the proprietor, Greg Wagner. Wagner noted that Bechtel seemed hurried, and repeatedly glanced at her watch during their conversation. Wagner's was the last confirmed sighting of Bechtel.\n\nAfter leaving the photo shop, it is believed by authorities that Bechtel drove to the Shoshone National Forest to practice the course of an upcoming 10K run she was enrolled to compete in. According to an eyewitness driving on Loop Road through the forest that afternoon, a woman resembling Bechtel was seen running along the road wearing black shorts similar to those she had worn earlier that day.\n\nAt 4:30pm, Steve returned home after having spent the day with a friend and found his wife absent. At 10:30pm, he called police to report his wife missing. At 1:00am on the morning of July 25, Bechtel's car, a white Toyota Tercel, was discovered parked on a turnout at Burnt Gulch in Lander.\n\nBy 3:00am on July 25, 1997, an extensive search for Bechtel was underway from law enforcement, as well as Steve and the couple's friends and family. By July 27, police were receiving roughly 1,000 calls per day with tips and potential leads in Bechtel's disappearance; additionally, various lakes and mines were searched with no results.\n\nInvestigators initially believed Bechtel to have fallen victim to the elements or potentially been attacked by a bear or mountain lion; however, they later suspected Steve after uncovering a series of his journals describing violence towards women, and specifically, his wife. Detectives interrogated Steve on August 1, 1997, falsely claiming to have evidence proving he had murdered his wife; in response, Steve terminated the interview. He would later claim the journals had comprised song lyrics he had written for his band, and that they were unrelated to Bechtel or her disappearance. In 1998, local police stated that Bechtel was not a central suspect in the case, but that they had wanted to clear him of suspicion in order to follow other leads, which they were unable to do after his lack of cooperation. Steve provided an alibi for the time of Bechtel's disappearance, which was corroborated by friends who agreed they had spent the afternoon with him rock climbing. However, he refused to submit to a polygraph test. Additionally, a woman driving through the area from where Bechtel disappeared claimed to have seen a truck matching Steve's in the area.\n\nIn late August 1997, the FBI requested satellite photos from NASA of the area on the day of Bechtel's disappearance, but the satellite images provided no information. In January 1998, satellite images taken by the Russian space station \"Mir\" were also obtained by the FBI, but they also revealed nothing of note.\n\nIn June 2003, a Timex Iron Man digital watch was discovered by a doctor hiking near the Popo Agie River and was turned in to police. It was noted to be similar to a watch Bechtel had owned at the time of her disappearance; however, law enforcement was unable to determine whether or not the watch belonged to her.\n\nIn a 2007 interview with the \"Billings Gazette\", Sheriff Sgt. Roger Rizor stated: \"I believe it was a homicide, and I believe what happened to her happened on the day she disappeared. In my mind there is only one person that I want to talk to, only one person who has refused to talk to law enforcement, and that's her husband.\"\n\nDale Wayne Eaton, a convicted murderer on Wyoming's death row, has also been cited as a suspect in the case. According to Eaton's brother, he had been near the area where Bechtel disappeared at the time of her disappearance. However, Eaton has refused to discuss the case.\n\nBechtel's case received significant media attention. On February 3, 1998, Steve appeared on \"The Geraldo Rivera Show\" with Bechtel's sisters, who pleaded with him to provide information regarding her disappearance. Steve denied any involvement in his wife's disappearance during the program.\n\nThe case was profiled in both \"People\" magazine and \"Outside\" in 1998, as well as the television series \"Unsolved Mysteries\". It was later profiled on the series \"Disappeared\" in 2013, and was also the subject of an extensive article featured in \"Runner's World\" in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54808123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54808123", "title": "Dorjeban", "text": "Dorjeban\n\nDorjeban, courtesy name Weizhong was a Mongolian politician of Yuan dynasty China. He was a descendant of Muqali and a member of the ruling house of Jalairs\n\nDorjeban had a high level knowledge of Classical Chinese language and was a devoted Confucian scholar. He was appointed the Investigating censor in 1333. In 1341, he became a scholar of Hanlin Academy. Later he served as the governor of Liaoyang Province.\n\nIn the 1350s, farmers of Henan province started their riot against the dynasty because of years of famine. The imperial court interpreted the riot as a racial conflict instead of an economic one. Some Mongols suggested a genocide of Chinese civilians. Dorjeban strongly opposed this suggestion.\n\nDorjeban's sympathy towards rioters angered prime minister Toqto'a. He was then relocated to Shanxi province as an investigating censor. He built roads to facilitate traffic and recruited volunteers to fight for the dynasty. He died on his term in Huguang province as a governor. Aged 40.\n"}
{"id": "13569849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13569849", "title": "Edmund Cobb", "text": "Edmund Cobb\n\nEdmund Fessenden Cobb (June 23, 1892 – August 15, 1974) was an American actor. He appeared in 623 films between 1912 and 1966. \n\nCobb was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico, the son of William Henry Cobb and Edwinna Ross. His maternal grandfather, Edmund G. Ross, was a newspaper editor, a governor of the New Mexico territory, a senator from Kansas, and a leader in the abolitionist movement in the United States. \n\nDespite his grandfather's efforts to lead Cobb into a career in politics, an initial effort in acting in a locally produced play turned him in that direction for a career. When he was 18, he worked for the St. Louis Motion Picture Company when it made a film in Albuquerque. Other roles with other companies followed. One of his earliest roles was a bit part in the Essanay Studios film \"A Pueblo Legend\" (1912).\n\nCobb died in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, in 1974 from a heart attack.\n"}
{"id": "26257564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26257564", "title": "Gilled lungfish", "text": "Gilled lungfish\n\nThe gilled lungfish (\"Protopterus amphibius\"), also known as the East African lungfish, is a species of African lungfish. It is found in swamps and flood plains of East Africa, where positively identified from Kenya, Somalia and Mozambique. Records from Tanzania require confirmation and may be the result of introductions.\n\n\"Protopterus amphibius\" generally only reaches a length of , making it the smallest extant lungfish. This lungfish is uniform blue, or slate grey in colour. It has small or inconspicuous black spots and a pale grey belly. Like all African lungfish it has two lungs and is an obligate air-breather. Also like all other African lungfish it is able to burrow and form a mucous cocoon for protection in a process known as estivation.\n\nThe gilled lungfish is a primarily demersal fish, living largely within the riverbeds of the Zambezi River system of East Africa. It also inhabits similar areas in the wetlands of the region.\n\nThe gilled lungfish is listed as Least Concern, partially because reported numbers are high and partially because of the lack of data. It is eaten for food by some natives of the area however the numbers lost to this practice are very small. More dangerous threats are the damming of the Zambezi, which will reduce the size of the delta in which the fish live, and pollution in areas that the fish inhabit as well as encroachment of wetlands for agriculture that reduces the available habitat.\n\n"}
{"id": "23001222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23001222", "title": "Jarle Aambø", "text": "Jarle Aambø\n\nJarle Alex Aambø (born 26 March 1960) is a Norwegian sports official. In 2013 NRK published the claim by Adresseavisen's sport commentator (Kjetil Kroksæter) that Aambø had been forced to resign as leader of Olympiatoppen.\n\nSince 2004 he is the leader of Olympiatoppen. He has his education from the Norwegian School of Sport Sciences.\n\nHe resides in Fjellhamar, Norway.\n"}
{"id": "363957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=363957", "title": "Joanna of Bourbon", "text": "Joanna of Bourbon\n\nJoanna of Bourbon (3 February 1338 – 6 February 1378) was Queen of France by marriage to King Charles V. She acted as his political adviser and was appointed potential regent in case of a minor regency. \n\nBorn in the Château de Vincennes, Joanna was a daughter of Peter I, Duke of Bourbon, and Isabella of Valois, a half-sister of Philip VI of France.\n\nFrom October 1340 through at least 1343, negotiations and treaties were made for her to marry Amadeus VI, Count of Savoy. The goal was to bring Savoy more closely into French influence. \n\nOn 8 April 1350, she married her cousin, the future Charles V of France, at Tain-l'Hermitage. Born thirteen days apart, they both were 12 years old. When Charles ascended the throne in 1364, Joanna became queen of France. \n\nQueen Joanna and Charles V had somewhat of a strained relationship during his tenure as dauphin because of his infidelity with Biette de Casinel, but their relationship improved when after he became King, and reportedly, he sometime confided in her in political and cultural issues and relied on her advice. According to tradition, Joanna was rumored to have taken the poet Hippolyte de Saint-Alphon for a lover, who was the biological father of her child John, who was born and died in 1366.\n\nQueen Joanna was described as mentally fragile, and after the birth of her son Louis in 1372, she suffered a complete mental breakdown. This deeply worried Charles V, who made a pilgrimage and offered many prayers for her recovery. When she did recover and regained her normal state of mind in 1373, Charles V appointed her legal guardian and regent of France should he die when his son and heir was still a minor.\n\nJoanna died at the royal residence Hôtel Saint-Pol in Paris, on 6 February 1378 (1377 Old Style), three days after her 40th birthday, and two days after the birth of her youngest child, Catherine. Froissart recorded that Joanna took a bath against her physicians' advice. Soon after, she went into labour and died two days after giving birth. The king was devastated. Her heart was buried in the Cordeliers Convent and her entrails in the Couvent des Célestins. The \"Couvent des Célestins\" in Paris was the most important royal necropolis after the Basilica of St Denis. The rest of her remains were then placed at Saint-Denis.\n\nJoanna and Charles had nine children. Two of them reached adulthood:\n\n"}
{"id": "12336142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12336142", "title": "Joasaph Bolotov", "text": "Joasaph Bolotov\n\nBishop Joasaph (secular name Ivan Ilyich Bolotov, ; 22 January 1761 – May 1799) was a Russian Orthodox missionary, bishop of Kodiak, vicar of Irkutsk diocese.\n\nHe came to Alaska as the leader of a group of missionaries from the Valaam Monastery in 1794. Under very primitive conditions he and his monastic companions established the foundations of an Orthodox presence in North America. Called to Irkutsk, he was consecrated the auxiliary Bishop of Kodiak, but did not survive a shipwreck on his return to Alaska.\n\n\"Ivan Ilyich Bolotov\" (Russian Иоанн Ильич Болотов) was born on January 22, 1761, in the village of Strazhkov in the Kashin district of the province of Tver. His father was the local priest in the village. His early education was at the ecclesiastical school at the monastery in Kashin. His education continued at the seminaries in Tver and Yaroslavl, graduating with honors. After graduating he taught at the Uglich ecclesiastical school for the next four years. Deciding to enter a monastic life he joined the Tolga Monastery where he received his tonsure in 1786 and was given the name of \"Joasaph\".\n\nSubsequently, he moved to a monastery in Uglich and then on to the Valaam. The dates of his ordination as a deacon and as a priest are not known. He was raised to the rank of archimandrite in 1783. When the call for assembling a missionary team to travel to remote Alaska was made, Fr. Joasaph was selected to lead the team based upon his accomplishments as a monastic. The team of ten consisted of Fr. Joasaph as leader, four hieromonks, a hierodeacon, two monks, and two servitors. (Chevigny 65)\n\nThe journey to Alaska took them ten months, nearly a year, before arriving in Kodiak, Alaska, on September 24, 1794. There, they found conditions not as represented to them by Grigorii Ivanovich Shelikhov, the promoter of the Alaskan enterprise. The village on Kodiak was more primitive than described and the church that was promised was not there. The monastics found many abuses between the Russians and the natives in the village about which Fr. Joasaph was compelled to report to the state and church authorities in Russia. Thus, an antagonistic environment grew between Alexander Baranov, the village leader, and Fr. Joasaph and his missionaries.\n\nNotwithstanding the adverse conditions, Fr. Joasaph and his party of monks were very successful in evangelizing the natives and expanded their preaching and efforts to the mainland. Yet, reaching out to the natives involved dangers. Witness the martyrdom of Fr. Juvenaly in 1796.\n\nIn reviewing the situation of the mission, in 1796, the Holy Synod created an auxiliary see in Alaska and elected Fr. Joasaph as Bishop of Kodiak. It was 1798 before news and instructions for his elevation reached him. For his elevation to bishop, Fr. Joasaph needed to return to Irkutsk, where he was consecrated on April 10, 1799. Bp. Joasaph's consecration was unusual in that, due to the isolation of Irkutsk from the Holy Synod, the Holy Synod provided instructions for Benjamin, Bishop of Irkutsk, to perform the consecration of Fr. Joasaph alone. Thus was recorded the only known situation in the history of the Church of Russia where an episcopal consecration was conducted by a single bishop.\n\nBp. Joasaph was not to reach his new see as the perils of travel in the northern seas would result in his death. Bp. Joasaph and his companions, Hieromonk Makary and Hierodeacon Stephan, perished as their ship \"Phoenix\" met with a serious storm and sank near the Alaskan coast during May 21 to 24, 1799. The ship was also carrying an important cargo of both people and supplies for the Kodiak colony. Thus, its loss seriously set back both the Orthodox mission in Alaska and the colony. The Holy Synod took no action to replace Bp. Joasaph and in 1811 officially closed the Kodiak episcopal see. It would be some thirty years before another hierarch would be named to Alaska.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47028740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47028740", "title": "John Stewart (Western Australian politician)", "text": "John Stewart (Western Australian politician)\n\nJohn Stewart (23 May 1868 – 30 August 1927) was an Australian businessman and politician who briefly represented the seat of Claremont in the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia, from 1917 to 1918.\n\nStewart was born in Glasgow, Scotland, to Jeannie (née Moore) and Bruce Stewart. He arrived in Western Australia in the 1890s, and by 1897 was working as an accountant in Fremantle. In 1900, he founded a produce firm, John Stewart & Co., and subsequently became prominent in Fremantle's mercantile sector, serving as a president of the Fremantle Chamber of Commerce. At the 1914 state election, Stewart unsuccessfully contested the seat of Fremantle as a Liberal candidate, opposing the Labor government of John Scaddan. He was defeated by Labor's William Carpenter, the sitting member, placing second (in front of another Liberal candidate) with 29.40 percent of the vote.\n\nA strong supporter of the war effort against Germany, Stewart resigned from the Fremantle Chamber of Commerce in June 1916 to protest its apparent unwillingness to bar \"persons of enemy birth\" from membership. Prominent in local Presbyterian circles, he was a member of the boards of Scotch College and Presbyterian Ladies' College, each located in the seat of Claremont. Stewart stood for that electorate at the 1917 election, running as one of three Nationalist candidates. He placed second on first preferences, but on the two-candidate-preferred vote eventually won on a majority of just two votes, following a recount. Stewart's time in parliament, however, was short-lived, as he resigned due to ill-health less than a year after taking office. The resulting by-election was won by another Nationalist, Thomas Duff.\n\nStewart had married Lily Berry Tate in June 1897 in Fremantle, and the couple went on to have four sons and a daughter together. Later becoming residents of Cottesloe, the couple left for an extended tour of Europe in 1926. On the return voyage to Australia, on the SS \"Narkunda\" in late August 1927, they were at sea near Gibraltar when Stewart jumped from a porthole wearing only his pyjamas. Both he and an engineer who had dived after him were drowned, and an inquest returned a verdict of suicide, brought on by \"acute insomnia and neurasthenia\". Aged 59 at the time of his death, Stewart was eulogised in \"The West Australian\" as a \"capable business man\" and \"generous donor\", \"possessing gifts above the average\".\n"}
{"id": "16633389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16633389", "title": "Ka statue", "text": "Ka statue\n\nA ka statue is a type of ancient Egyptian statue intended to provide a resting place for the \"ka\" (life-force or spirit) of the person after death. The ancient Egyptians believed the \"ka\" along with the physical body, the name, the \"ba\" (personality or soul), and the \"šwt\" (shadow), made up the five aspects of a person.\n\nAfter death, the ethereal aspects of the soul were believed to be released from the body, free to roam the earth, but required the physical body or a surrogate, such as the ka statue, to return to as a permanent home.\n\nKa statues could also be set up as a type of memorial for the deceased \"in absentia\"; for example in Abydos hundreds were set up to allow the dead to participate in the yearly festivals commemorating the resurrection of Osiris.\n\nBecause the ancient Egyptians believed statues could magically perceive the world, they were ceremonially brought to life by priests in a special ritual called the Opening of the mouth ceremony. In the full version of this ceremony, the mouth, eyes, nose, and ears could be touched with ritual implements to give the statue the power of breath, sight, smell, and hearing.\n\nKa statues were usually carved from wood or stone and sometimes painted in the likeness of the owner to reinforce the spiritual connection and preserve the person's memory for eternity. Many ka statues were placed in a purpose-built mortuary chapel or niche, which could be covered with appropriate inscriptions. Like most ancient Egyptian statuary, ka statues display a rigid frontalism in which the body faces squarely forward in a formal way. Whether seated or standing, their posture reflects the need for the statue to \"see\" the real world in front of them and conform to an ideal standard of beauty and perfection.\n\nThe hieroglyph representing the \"ka\" is composed of a pair of upraised arms. It is sometimes depicted on top of the head of the statue to reinforce its intended purpose.\n\n"}
{"id": "11630613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11630613", "title": "Lateral pontine syndrome", "text": "Lateral pontine syndrome\n\nA lateral pontine syndrome is a lesion which is similar to the lateral medullary syndrome, but because it occurs in the pons, it also involves the cranial nerve nuclei of the pons.\n\nDamage to the following areas produces symptoms (from medial to lateral):\nIt can be caused by an interruption to the blood supply of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery or circumferential arteries.\n"}
{"id": "26602269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26602269", "title": "Le Jeu de la Mort", "text": "Le Jeu de la Mort\n\nLe Jeu de la Mort \"(The Game of Death)\" is a French/Swiss television documentary broadcast by the French public television channel France 2. It was presented as a social commentary on the effects of obeying orders and humiliation in reality television, and its broadcast was followed by a studio discussion on the programme.\n\nThe documentary focused on a modern version of the Milgram experiment, with the additional factor of reality television's popularity and influence on the general public. The experiment was performed in the guise of a game show known as \"La Zone Xtrême\". Volunteers were given €40 to take part as contestants in a \"pilot\" for the fictitious show, where they had to administer increasingly stronger electric shocks to trained actors posing as players as punishment for incorrect answers, as encouraged to do so by the host and audience. Only 16 of 80 \"contestants\" chose to end the game before delivering the highest voltage punishment.\n"}
{"id": "42880247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42880247", "title": "List of Gardaí killed in the line of duty", "text": "List of Gardaí killed in the line of duty\n\nThis is a list of Garda officers killed in the line of duty since the establishment of the \"Garda Síochána\" in 1922. The list includes all Gardaí who were killed in the service of the state (accidentally and unlawfully), as per the official Garda Síochána Roll of Honour. The list does not include members of previous police services or other law enforcement agencies in the Republic of Ireland, nor those in Northern Ireland.\n\nAt least 23 serving Gardaí have been killed by individuals or groups associated with the Republican paramilitary groups, this being the most common cause of death apart from accidents.\n\nThe most recent death was that of Garda Tony Golden, who was murdered in October 2015, becoming the 88th member of the force to die on duty.\n\nNote: Coloured rows denotes when officers were \"killed in the same incident\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10979721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10979721", "title": "List of IndyCar fatalities", "text": "List of IndyCar fatalities\n\nThis article lists the people who have been fatally injured in American Championship car racing during testing, practice, qualifying, or races since 1916, categorized into drivers, riding mechanics, and non-participants. The lists show \"IndyCar\" or \"Champ Car\" fatalities that occurred in events making up the National Championship, which has been held by the following sanctioning bodies:\n\n\nThe National Championship, which was split from 1979 to 2007, has featured regular races, non-points paying (non-championship) rounds, competitions sanctioned by entities that did not stage the National Championship in the same year (such as the Automobile Club of America), and the AAA Big car meetings held in the 1946 season.\n\nThe most recent driver to be killed in an IndyCar Series event was Justin Wilson at the 2015 ABC Supply 500.\n\n✝ indicates that the driver was killed in the same accident.\n\nThis section includes racers participating in an event who were killed while on the sidelines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7348730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7348730", "title": "Loculus (architecture)", "text": "Loculus (architecture)\n\nLoculus (Latin, \"little place\"), plural \"loculi\", is an architectural compartment or niche that houses a body, as in a catacomb, hypogeum, mausoleum or other place of entombment. In classical antiquity, the mouth of the loculus might be closed with a slab, plain, as in the Catacombs of Rome, or sculptural, as in the family tombs of ancient Palmyra.\n"}
{"id": "6415714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6415714", "title": "Max Freedom Long", "text": "Max Freedom Long\n\nMax Freedom Long (October 26, 1890 – September 23, 1971) was an American novelist and New Age author.\n\nMax Freedom Long was born on October 26, 1890, in Sterling, Colorado to Toby Albert Long and his wife Jessie Diffendaffer. At the time of the 1910 census he was working as a photographer in his hometown, and was living with his grandfather's household with his parents. He attended Los Angeles State Normal School from September 1914 to June 1916, and graduated with an Associate of Arts (two-year) degree in General Education. After graduating, he worked briefly as an auto-mechanic in Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1917, Long moved to the island of Hawaii to teach in elementary schools around the big island. He moved to Honolulu in 1920 and lived there until 1932, where he worked in and later owned a photography store. In 1920, he married an English woman named Jane Jessie Rae, who was the proprietor of the Hotel Davenport in Honolulu. When he arrived in Hawaii, he claimed that some Native Hawaiians were practicing what he called magic. Long wrote that at first he was skeptical of this magic, but later became convinced that it worked. He devoted the rest of his life to creating theories about how the Native Hawaiians did what he claimed they did, and teaching those theories through the sale of books and newsletters.\n\nIn the mid-1930s, Long relocated to Orange County, California and began to focus on writing books inspired by his experiences in Hawaii. He married a second time while in California.\n\nLong decided to call his compilation of teachings Huna, because one meaning of the word is \"hidden secret.\" He wrote that he derived it from the word kahuna, who were priests and master craftsmen who ranked near the top of the social scale. Long published a series of books on Huna starting in 1936, and founded an organization called the Huna Fellowship in 1945.\n\nThere are no accepted Hawaiian sources - Malo, Kamakau, 'I'i, Kepelino - that refer to the word Huna as a tradition of esoteric learning.\n\nMax Freedom Long wrote that he obtained many of his case studies and his ideas about what to look for in kahuna magic from the Director of the Bishop Museum in Honolulu, William Brigham. There is no credible evidence that the two men met. Even if they did, Brigham was not an expert on kahunas and did not document in his own writings any of the incidents Long ascribed to him, including walking on hot lava. In his letters and manuscripts, Brigham stated that Hawaiians were \"an inferior race,\" and implied they were lazy. He referred to Queen Lili'uokalani as a \"she devil,\" \"squaw,\" and \"nigger.\"\n\nNative Hawaiian scholar Charles Kenn, a Living Treasure of Hawai'i recognized in the Hawaiian community as a \"kahuna\" and expert in Hawaiian history and traditions, was friendly with Max Freedom Long but said, \"While this Huna study is an interesting study, … it is not, and never was Hawaiian.\" \n\nHawaiian author Pali Jae Lee, a research librarian at the Bishop Museum, conducted extensive research on Max Freedom Long and Huna. She concluded, based on her interviews with Hawaiian elders, \"Huna is not Hawaiian.\" Lee cites Theodore Kelsey, a Living Treasure of Hawai'i renowned for his work as a Hawaiian translator who wrote a letter to Long in 1936 (now in the Hawai'i State Archives) criticizing his use of the terms \"unihipili\" and \"aumakua.\"\n\nProfessor Lisa Kahaleole Hall writes that Huna \"bears absolutely no resemblance to any Hawaiian worldview or spiritual practice\" and calls it part of the \"New Age spiritual industry.\" Huna books have been called \"examples of cultural appropriation.\"\n\nMax Freedom Long stopped issuing bulletins in late 1970 due to poor health. He died at his home in Vista, California on September 23, 1971 from a self-inflicted shotgun wound to his head. He had been suffering from a bone cancer for a few years at that time, and was in constant pain in his final months. He was a believer in voluntary euthanasia.\n\nPrior to his death, Long's papers and library became part of the Max Freedom Long Library and Museum at the Huna Research Center at Fort Worth, Texas. It was established by a student named Dolly Ware, who inherited Long's library. After Dolly Ware's death in 2012, parts of it were sold to antiquarian book dealers. Other parts of the collection became the possession of E. Otha Wingo, who was a direct successor of Long's Huna tradition. Parts of the collection of the original Library and Museum have since been reconstituted at Valdosta State University's Archives and Special Collections as part of their New Age Movements, Occultism, and Spiritualism Research Library. The remaining pieces are being sought by the curator of the collection Guy Frost of Valdosta State University's Odum Library.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2299327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2299327", "title": "Mayhem (crime)", "text": "Mayhem (crime)\n\nMayhem is a common law criminal offense consisting of the intentional maiming of another person.\n\nUnder the law of England and Wales and other common law jurisdictions, it originally consisted of the intentional and wanton removal of a body part that would handicap a person's ability to defend themself in combat. Under the strict common law definition, initially this required damage to an eye or a limb, while cutting off an ear or a nose was deemed not sufficiently disabling. Later the meaning of the crime expanded to encompass any mutilation, disfigurement, or crippling act done using any instrument.\n\nIn England and Wales, it has fallen into disuse. In 1992 the Law Commission recommended that it be abolished, and in 1998 the Home Office proposed to abolish it, in the course of codifying the law relating to offences against the person.\n\nThe most significant change in common-law mayhem doctrine came in 1697, when the King's Bench decided \"Fetter v. Beale\", 91 Eng. Rep. 1122. There, the plaintiff recovered in a battery action against a defendant. Shortly thereafter, \"part of his skull by reason of the said battery came out of his head\", and the plaintiff brought a subsequent action under mayhem. Though \"Fetter\" is also known as an early example of res judicata, it is most significant for expanding the ambit of mayhem to include \"loss of the skull\".\n\nIn modern times, the offense of mayhem has been superseded in many jurisdictions by statutorily defined offenses such as aggravated battery.\n\nModern statutes in the U.S. define mayhem as disabling or disfiguring, such as rendering useless a member of another person's arms or legs. The injury must be permanent, not just a temporary loss. Some courts will hold even a minor battery as mayhem if the injury is not minor. Mayhem in the U.S. is a felony.\n\nBoth the noun \"mayhem\" and the verb \"maim\" come from Old French via Anglo-Norman. The word is first attested in various Romance languages in the 13th century, but its ultimate origin is unclear. For one hypothesis about its origin, see the Wiktionary entry for this word.\n\nMayhem can describe a person going on a rampage. Popular misunderstanding of the common journalese expression \"rioting and mayhem\" caused the common usual modern use of \"mayhem\" to mean \"havoc and disorder\", often with humorous overtones.\n\n"}
{"id": "25226280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25226280", "title": "Nutty Putty Cave", "text": "Nutty Putty Cave\n\nNutty Putty Cave is a hydrothermal cave located west of Utah Lake in Utah County, Utah, United States.\n\nThe cave, first explored in 1960 by Dale Green, is currently owned by the Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration, and managed by the Utah Timpanogos Grotto.\n\nIn the recent past this cave has had four rescues of cavers and Boy Scouts, who became stuck inside the cave's tight twists, turns, and crawls.\n\nIn 2006, an effort was put forth to study and severely limit the number of visitors allowed inside the cave. It was estimated the cave was receiving over 5,000 visitors per year, with many visitors often entering the cave late at night and failing to take proper safety precautions. The cave’s popularity had caused excessive smoothing of the rock inside the cave to the point it was predicted a fatality would occur in one of the cave's more prominent features, a 45-degree room called \"The Big Slide\". On May 24, 2006, a gate was installed, and the cave was temporarily closed. In early 2009, proper management was established and an application process was developed to ensure safety precautions were being met. On May 18, 2009 the cave was reopened to the public. \n\nOn November 24, 2009, John Edward Jones died after being trapped in the cave for 28 hours. Rescuers concluded that it would be too dangerous to attempt to retrieve his body; the landowner and Jones' family came to an agreement that the cave should be permanently closed with the body sealed inside. A film about the tragedy called \"The Last Descent\" was released on September 16, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "13336024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13336024", "title": "ORB survey of Iraq War casualties", "text": "ORB survey of Iraq War casualties\n\nOn Friday, 14 September 2007, ORB International, an independent polling agency located in London, published estimates of the total war casualties in Iraq since the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. At over 1.2 million deaths (1,220,580), this estimate is the highest number published so far. From the poll margin of error of +/-2.5% ORB calculated a range of 733,158 to 1,446,063 deaths. The ORB estimate was performed by a random survey of 1,720 adults aged 18+, out of which 1,499 responded, in fifteen of the eighteen governorates within Iraq, between August 12 and August 19, 2007. In comparison, the 2006 Lancet survey suggested almost half this number (654,965 deaths) through the end of June 2006. The Lancet authors calculated a range of 392,979 to 942,636 deaths.\n\nOn 28 January 2008, ORB published an update based on additional work carried out in rural areas of Iraq. Some 600 additional interviews were undertaken September 20 to 24, 2007. As a result of this the death estimate was revised to 1,033,000 with a given range of 946,000 to 1,120,000. As well as estimating the number of deaths the ORB poll also showed that despite the violence only 26% of Iraqis preferred life under Saddam Hussein's regime, while 49% said that they preferred life under the current political system.\n\nThis ORB estimate has been criticised as exaggerated and ill-founded in peer reviewed literature.\n\nParticipants of the ORB survey were asked the following question:\n\nHow many members of your household, if any, have died as a result of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 (ie as a result of violence rather than a natural death such as old age)? Please note that I mean those who were actually living under your roof.\nThe revised results were\n\nORB reported that \"48% died from a gunshot wound, 20% from the impact of a car bomb, 9% from aerial bombardment, 6% as a result of an accident and 6% from another blast/ordnance.\"\n\nFrom the September 14, 2007 ORB press release concerning the first set of interviews:\nTheir pollster was Dr. Munqeth Daghir, founding director of IIACSS. ORB reports: \"IIACSS (Independent Institute for Administration and Civil Society Studies) is a polling/ research company established in Iraq in 2003 and which has a network of interviewers covering all regions of the country. Further information about IIACSS and its founding director Dr. Munqith Dagher can be found within the relevant news article in the Newsroom section of ORB's website.\"\n\nORB is a member of the British Polling Council.\n\nThe 2005 census reported 4,050,597 households. From this ORB calculated 1,220,580 deaths since the 2003 invasion. From the poll margin of error of 2.5% ORB came up with a range of 733,158 to 1,446,063 deaths.\n\nOpinion Research Business published an update to the survey on 28 January 2008, based on additional work carried out in rural areas of Iraq. Some 600 additional interviews were undertaken and as a result of this the death estimate was revised to 1,033,000 with a given range of 946,000 to 1,120,000.\n\nThe ORB poll estimate has come under criticism in a peer reviewed paper entitled \"Conflict Deaths in Iraq: A Methodological Critique of the ORB Survey Estimate\", published in the journal Survey Research Methods. This paper \"describes in detail how the ORB poll is riddled with critical inconsistencies and methodological shortcomings\", and concludes that the ORB poll is \"too flawed, exaggerated and ill-founded to contribute to discussion of the human costs of the Iraq war\".\n\nEpidemiologist Francisco Checci recently echoed these conclusions in a BBC interview, stating that he thinks the ORB estimate was \"too high\" and \"implausible\". Checci, like the paper above, says that a \"major weakness\" of the poll was a failure to adequately distinguish between households and extended family.\n\nThe Iraq Body Count project also rejected what they called the \"hugely exaggerated death toll figures\" of ORB, citing the Survey Research Methods paper,which Josh Dougherty of IBC co-wrote. IBC concluded that, \"The pressing need is for more truth rooted in real experience, not the manipulation of numbers disconnected from reality.\"\n\nJohn Rentoul, a columnist for \"The Independent\" newspaper, has asserted that the ORB estimate \"exaggerate[s] the toll by a factor of as much as 10\" and that \"the ORB estimate has rarely been treated as credible by responsible media organisations, but it is still widely repeated by cranks and the ignorant.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13418044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13418044", "title": "Pat Buckley (Aghabullogue hurler)", "text": "Pat Buckley (Aghabullogue hurler)\n\nPat Buckley was an Irish sportsperson. He played hurling with his local club Aghabullogue and was a member of the Cork senior inter-county team from 1890 until 1892. Buckley, together with his team-mate Dan Drew, became the first players to win two All-Ireland winners' medals on the field of play.\n\nBuckley played his hurling with his local club in Aghabullogue and enjoyed some success. He won a county senior championship title in 1890 following a 7-3 to 1-1 defeat of Aghada. It remains Aghabullogue's only county final victory.\n\nBuckley first came to prominence on the inter-county scene with Cork as part of the Aghabullogue selection in 1890. That year he lined out in his first provincial decider with Kerry providing the opposition. The game was far from exciting, however, at full-time Cork were the champions by 2-0 to 0-1. It was Buckley's first Munster title. Cork's next game was an All-Ireland final meeting with Wexford. The game was a controversial one and was marred by ill-tempered behaviour. A Cork player had his toe broken by one of his Wexford counterparts. Cork captain, Dan Lane, led his men off the field in protest. At the time Cork were trailing by 2-2 to 1-6, however, the GAA's Central Council later backed Cork and Buckley collected an All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship title.\n\nBuckley was dropped from the Cork team again in 1891, however, he was back in 1892. That year he lined out in his second provincial decider with All-Ireland champions Kerry providing the opposition once again. An exciting game developed, however, at full-time Cork were the champions by 5-3 to 2-5. It was Buckley's second Munster title. Cork's next game was an All-Ireland final meeting with Dublin. The game was a controversial one as referee Dan Fraher changed his mind after initially awarding a goal to Cork. He eventually decided that the GAA's Central Council should decide the matter. Dublin, however, had walked off the field and, because of this, Cork were awarded the title. It was Buckley's second All-Ireland title.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56414357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56414357", "title": "Phase precession", "text": "Phase precession\n\nPhase precession is a neurophysiological process in which the firing of action potentials by individual neurons is timed in relation to the phase of neural oscillations in the surrounding cells. In place cells, a type of neuron found in the hippocampal region of the brain, phase precession is believed to play a major role in the neural coding of information. John O'Keefe, who later shared the 2014 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his discovery that place cells help form a \"map\" of the body's position in space, co-discovered phase precession with Michael Recce in 1993.\n\nPyramidal cells in the hippocampus called place cells play a significant role in self-location during movement over short distances. As a rat moves along a path, individual place cells fire action potentials at an increased rate at particular positions along the path, termed \"place fields\". Each place cell's maximum firing ratewith action potentials occurring in rapid burstsoccurs at the position encoded by that cell; and that cell fires only occasionally when the animal is at other locations. Within a relatively small path, the same cells are repeatedly activated as the animal returns to the same position.\n\nAlthough simple rate coding (the coding of information based on whether neurons fire more rapidly or more slowly) resulting from these changes in firing rates may account for some of the neural coding of position, there is also a prominent role for the timing of the action potentials of a single place cell, relative to the firing of nearby cells in the local population. As the larger population of cells fire occasionally when the rat is outside of the cells' individual place fields, the firing patterns are organized to occur synchronously, forming wavelike voltage oscillations. These oscillations are measurable in local field potentials and electroencephalography (EEG). In the CA1 region of the hippocampus, where the place cells are located, these firing patterns give rise to theta waves. Theta oscillations have classically been described in rats, but evidence is emerging that they also occur in humans.\n\nIn 1993, O'Keefe and Recce discovered a relationship between the theta wave and the firing patterns of individual place cells. Although the occasional action potentials of cells when rats were outside of the place fields occurred in phase with (at the peaks of) the theta waves, the bursts of more rapid spikes elicited when the rats reached the place fields were out of synchrony with the oscillation. As a rat approached the place field, the corresponding place cell would fire slightly in advance of the theta wave peak. As the rat moved closer and closer, each successive action potential occurred earlier and earlier within the wave cycle. At the center of the place field, when the cell would fire at its maximal rate, the firing had been advanced sufficiently to be anti-phase to the theta potential (at the bottom, rather than at the peak, of the theta waveform). Then, as the rat continued to move on past the place field and the cell firing slowed, the action potentials continued to occur progressively earlier relative to the theta wave, until they again became synchronous with the wave, aligned now with one wave peak earlier than before. O'Keefe and Recce termed this advancement relative to the wave phase \"phase precession\". Subsequent studies showed that each time a rat entered a completely different area and the place fields would be remapped, place cells would again become phase-locked to the theta rhythm. It is now widely accepted that the anti-phase cell firing that results from phase precession is an important component of information coding about place.\n\nThere have been conflicting theories of how neurons in and around the hippocampus give rise to theta waves and consequently give rise to phase precession. As these mechanisms became better understood, the existence of phase precession was increasingly accepted by researchers. This, in turn, gave rise to the question of whether phase precession could be observed in any other regions of the brain, with other kinds of cell circuits, or whether phase precession was a peculiar property of hippocampal tissue. The finding that theta wave phase precession is also a property of grid cells in the entorhinal cortex demonstrated that the phenomenon exists in other parts of the brain that also mediate information about movement.\n\nTheta wave phase precession in the hippocampus also plays a role in some brain functions that are unrelated to spatial location. When rats were trained to jump up to the rim of a box, place cells displayed phase precession much as they do during movement along a path, but a subset of the place cells showed phase precession that was related to initiating the jump, independently of spatial location, and not related to the position during the jump.\n"}
{"id": "42571640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42571640", "title": "Pierre de Boulogne", "text": "Pierre de Boulogne\n\nPierre de Boulogne was a sailor from France, who represented his country at the 1900 Summer Olympics in Meulan, France. Pierre de Boulogne as crew, was disqualified in first race of the 0.5 to 1 ton and did not finished in the second race. He did this with the boat \"Sidi-Fekkar\".\n"}
{"id": "140704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140704", "title": "Pogrom", "text": "Pogrom\n\nThe term pogrom has multiple meanings, ascribed most often to the deliberate persecution of an ethnic or religious group either approved or condoned by the local authorities. According to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the term is usually applied to anti-Jewish violence in the Russian Empire in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It has been extended to include any attacks against Jews and physical destruction of Jewish property, as well as looting of Jewish homes and businesses, throughout history. The characteristics of a pogrom vary widely, depending on the specific incidents, at times leading to, or culminating in, massacres. All outbreaks of antisemitic violence have become retrospectively known as pogroms. \n\nThe Russian-language term was adopted in the English language in order to describe the mass violence of 1881 and 1882 that was directed against Jews within the Pale of Settlement which was first created by Catherine the Great in what would become most of present-day Ukraine and Belarus, as well as parts of Lithuania, Moldova and Poland. The term \"pogrom\" is sometimes used, as well, to describe publicly sanctioned purgative attacks against non-Jewish ethnic or religious groups.\n\nFirst recorded in 1882, the Russian word \"pogrom\" (погро́м, ) is derived from the common prefix po- and the verb \"gromit\"' (громи́ть, ) meaning \"to destroy, to wreak havoc, to demolish violently\". Its literal translation is \"to harm\". The noun \"pogrom\", which has a relatively short history, is used in English and many other languages as a loanword, possibly borrowed from Yiddish (where the word takes the form פאָגראָם). Its widespread circulation in today's world began with the antisemitic excesses in the Russian Empire in 1881–1883.\n\nAnti-Jewish riots had already taken place in Europe during the Middle Ages. Jewish communities were targeted in the Black Death Jewish persecutions of 1348–1350, in Toulon in 1348, in Barcelona as well as in other Catalan cities, during the Erfurt massacre (1349), the Basel massacre, massacres in Aragon and in Flanders, as well as the \"Valentine's Day\" Strasbourg pogrom of 1349. Some 510 Jewish communities were destroyed during this period, extending further to the Brussels massacre of 1370. On Holy Saturday of 1389, a pogrom began in Prague that led to the burning of the Jewish quarter, the killing of many Jews, and the suicide of many Jews trapped in the main synagogue; the number of dead was estimated at 400–500 men, women and children.\n\nThe first atrocities against Jewish civilians, on a genocidal scale of destruction, were committed during the Khmelnytsky Pogroms of 1648–1657 in present-day Ukraine. Modern historians give estimates of the scale of the murders by Khmelnytsky's Cossacks ranging between 40,000 and 100,000 men, women and children, or perhaps many more.\n\nThe outbreak of violence against Jews (Hep-Hep riots) occurred at the beginning of the 19th century as a reaction to Jewish emancipation in the German Confederation.\n\nThe Russian Empire, which previously had very few Jews, acquired territories with large Jewish populations during the military Partitions of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1772, 1793 and 1795 conducted jointly with the Austrian and Prussian armies, and resulting in Poland's elimination from the geopolitical map of Europe for the next 123 years. In conquered territories, a new political entity called the Pale of Settlement was formed in 1791 by Catherine the Great. Most Jewish people from the former Commonwealth were allowed to reside only within the Pale, including families expelled by royal decree from St. Petersburg, Moscow and other large Russian cities. The 1821 Odessa pogroms marked the beginning of the 19th century pogroms in Tsarist Russia; there were four more such pogroms in Odessa before the end of the century. Following the assassination of Alexander II in 1881 by Narodnaya Volya – blamed on the Jews by the Russian government, anti-Jewish events turned into a wave of over 200 pogroms by their modern definition, which lasted for several years. Jewish self-governing \"Kehillah\" were abolished by Tsar Nicholas I in 1844.\n\nThe first in 20th-century Russia was the Kishinev pogrom of 1903 in which 47 Jews were killed, hundreds wounded, 700 homes destroyed and 600 businesses pillaged. In the same year, pogroms took place in Gomel (Belarus), Smela, Feodosiya and Melitopol (Ukraine). Extreme savagery was typified by mutilations of the wounded. They were followed by the Zhitomir pogrom (with 29 killed), and the Kiev pogrom of October 1905 resulting in a massacre of approximately 100 Jews. In three years between 1903 and 1906, about 660 pogroms were recorded in Ukraine and Bessarabia; half a dozen more in Belorussia, carried out with the Russian government's complicity, but no anti-Jewish pogroms were recorded in Poland. At about that time, the Jewish Labor Bund began organizing armed self-defense units ready to shoot back, and the pogroms subsided for a number of years. According to professor Colin Tatz, between 1881 and 1920 there were 1,326 pogroms in Ukraine (\"see: Southwestern Krai parts of the Pale\") which took the lives of 70,000 to 250,000 civilian Jews, leaving half a million homeless.\n\nLarge-scale pogroms, which began in the Russian Empire several decades earlier, intensified during the period of the Russian Civil War and the Revolution of 1917. Professor Zvi Gitelman (\"A Century of Ambivalence\") estimated that only in 1918–1919 over 1,200 pogroms took place in Ukraine, thus amounting to the greatest slaughter of Jews in Eastern Europe since 1648. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn in his book \"Two Hundred Years Together\" provided additional statistics from research conducted by Nahum Gergel (1887–1931). Gergel counted 1,236 incidents of anti-Jewish violence and estimated that 887 mass pogroms occurred, the remainder being classified as \"excesses\" not assuming mass proportions. The Kiev pogroms of 1919, according to Gitelman, were the first of a subsequent wave of pogroms in which between 30,000 and 70,000 Jews were massacred across Ukraine. Of all the pogroms accounted for in Gergel's research, about 40 percent were perpetrated by the Ukrainian People's Republic forces led by Symon Petliura, 25 percent by the Ukrainian Green Army and various Ukrainian nationalist gangs, and 17 percent by the White Army, especially the forces of Anton Denikin. A further 8.5 percent of Gergel's total was attributed to pogroms carried out by men of the Red Army although these pogroms were not sanctioned by the Bolshevik leadership; the high command disarmed the regiments which had perpetrated pogroms. The Ukrainian People's Republic of Symon Petliura also issued orders condemning pogroms, but lacked authority to intervene. After May 1919 the Directory lost its role as a credible governing body; almost 75 percent of pogroms occurred between May and September of that year. Thousands of Jews were killed only for being Jewish, without any political affiliations.\nThe instructions issued from above had only a limited impact on soldiers' attitudes toward violence against Jews, as related by author and future Nobel laureate Ivan Bunin. On May 15, 1919, Bunin wrote in his diary about yet another massacre: \n\nGergel's overall figures, which are generally considered conservative, are based on the testimony of witnesses and newspaper reports collected by the \"Mizrakh-Yidish Historiche Arkhiv\" which was first based in Kiev, then Berlin and later New York. The English version of Gergel's article was published in 1951 in the YIVO Annual of Jewish Social Science titled \"The Pogroms in the Ukraine in 1918–1921.\"\n\nIn June 1919, during the Polish–Soviet War, the Jewish First Guard Battalion from Minsk – at the insistence of its own members – was deployed by the Bolsheviks against the Polish Army which included the First and the Second Lithuanian–Belarusian Divisions. The Jews had won the first skirmish, forcing them to retreat several kilometers. On 8 August 1919, Polish troops took over the city in Operation Minsk, killed 31 Jews merely suspected of supporting the Bolshevist movement, beat and attacked many more, looted 377 Jewish-owned shops (aided by the local civilians) and ransacked many private homes. The aftermath of the pogrom in Minsk was described on an emotional level by Rabbi Yechezkel Abramsky in July 1920. The \"Morgenthau's report of October 1919 stated that there is no question that some of the Jewish leaders exaggerated these evils.\" According to Elissa Bemporad, the \"violence endured by the Jewish population under the Poles encouraged popular support for the Red Army, as Jewish public opinion welcomed the establishment of the Belorussian SSR.\" Irrespective of war-zone violence, the Jewish political groups, communal institutions and cultural organizations of all stripes were active in the Second Polish Republic.\n\nIn the early 20th century, pogroms broke out elsewhere in the world as well. In 1904 in Ireland, the Limerick boycott caused several Jewish families to leave the town. During the 1911 Tredegar riot in Wales, Jewish homes and businesses were looted and burned over the period of a week, before the British Army was called in by then-Home Secretary Winston Churchill, who described the riot as a \"pogrom\". In 1919 there was a pogrom in Argentina, during the Tragic Week.\n\nAfter the First World War, during the localized armed conflicts of independence, 72 Jews were killed and 443 injured in the 1918 Lwów pogrom. The following year, pogroms were reported by the \"New York Tribune\" in several cities in the newly reborn Poland. However, the reports were not only exaggerated but also manufactured by the German legation in Warsaw, quietly opposed to the rebirth of Poland after a century of imperial partitions. The German reports were delivered to Zionist headquarters and the foreign press elsewhere by the official services of the Wilhelmstrasse. Meanwhile, in the Mandatory Palestine under British administration, the Jews were targeted in the 1929 Hebron massacre and the 1929 Safed pogrom.\n\nThe first pogrom in Nazi Germany was the \"Kristallnacht\", often called \"Pogromnacht\", in which at least 91 Jews were killed, a further 30,000 arrested and incarcerated in Nazi concentration camps, over 1,000 synagogues burned, and over 7,000 Jewish businesses destroyed or damaged.\n\nDuring World War II, Nazi German death squads encouraged local populations in German-occupied Europe to commit pogroms against Jews. Brand new battalions of \"Volksdeutscher Selbstschutz\" (trained by SD agents) were mobilized from among the German minorities. During Operation Barbarossa which lasted from June 22 to December 5, 1941, \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler established the \"Schutzmannschaft\" collaborationist auxiliary battalions and tasked them with carrying out pogroms behind the front lines.\n\nA large number of pogroms occurred during the Holocaust at the hands of non-Germans. Perhaps the deadliest of these Holocaust-era pogroms was the Iași pogrom in Romania, in which as many as 13,266 Jews were killed by Romanian citizens, police and military officials.\n\nOn 1–2 June 1941, in the two-day Farhud pogrom in Iraq, \"rioters murdered between 150 and 180 Jews, injured 600 others, and raped an undetermined number of women. They also looted some 1,500 stores and homes\".\nIn June–July 1941, encouraged by the \"Einsatzgruppen\" in the city of Lviv – location of the Lwów ghetto – the Ukrainian People's Militia soon reorganized as the Ukrainian Auxiliary Police perpetrated two citywide pogroms in which around 6,000 Polish Jews were murdered, in retribution for alleged collaboration with the Soviet NKVD; the controversy surrounding the Lviv pogroms of 1941 is still debated today. On 12 October 1941 in Stanisławów, some 10,000–12,000 Jewish men, women and children were shot in the Jewish cemetery by the Germans and the Ukrainian Auxiliary Police during so-called \"Bloody Sunday\" . The shooters began firing at 12 noon, and continued without stopping by taking turns. It was the single largest massacre of Jews in the General Government prior to mass gassings of \"Aktion Reinhard.\"\n\nIn Lithuania, some local police led by Algirdas Klimaitis and Lithuanian partisans – consisting of LAF units reinforced by 3,600 deserters from the 29th Lithuanian Territorial Corps of the Red Army promulgated anti-Jewish pogroms in Kaunas along with occupying Nazis. On 25–26 June 1941, about 3,800 Jews were killed and synagogues and Jewish settlements burned.\n\nDuring the Jedwabne pogrom of July 1941, ethnic Poles burned at least 340 Jews in a barn (Institute of National Remembrance) in the presence of Nazi German \"Ordnungspolizei\". The role of the German \"Einsatzgruppe B\" remains the subject of debate.\n\nAfter the end of World War II, a series of violent antisemitic incidents occurred against returning Jews throughout Europe, particularly in the Soviet-occupied East where Nazi propagandists had extensively promoted the notion of a Jewish-Communist conspiracy (see Anti-Jewish violence in Poland, 1944–1946 and Anti-Jewish violence in Eastern Europe, 1944–1946). Anti-Jewish riots also took place in Britain in 1947.\n\nIn the Arab world, anti-Jewish rioters killed over 140 Jews in the 1945 Anti-Jewish Riots in Tripolitania. Following the start of the 1947–48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine, a number of anti-Jewish events occurred throughout the Arab world, some of which have been described as pogroms. In 1947, half of Aleppo's 10,000 Jews left the city in the wake of the Aleppo riots, while other anti-Jewish riots took place in British Aden and the French Moroccan cities of Oujda and Jerada.\n\nAccording to Encyclopædia Britannica, \"the term is usually applied to attacks on Jews in the Russian Empire in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, [and] the first extensive pogroms followed the assassination of Tsar Alexander II in 1881\", and the \"Wiley-Blackwell Dictionary of Modern European History Since 1789\" states that pogroms \"were antisemitic disturbances that periodically occurred within the tsarist empire.\" However, the term is widely used to refer to many events which occurred prior to the Anti-Jewish pogroms in the Russian Empire. Historian of Russian Jewry John Klier writes in \"Russians, Jews, and the Pogroms of 1881–1882\" that \"By the twentieth century, the word 'pogrom' had become a generic term in English for all forms of collective violence directed against Jews.\" Abramson wrote that \"in mainstream usage the word has come to imply an act of antisemitism\", since while \"Jews have not been the only group to suffer under this phenomenon ... historically Jews have been frequent victims of such violence\".\nThe term is also used in reference to attacks on non-Jewish ethnic minorities, and accordingly some scholars do not include antisemitism as the defining characteristic of \"pogroms\". Reviewing its uses in scholarly literature, historian Werner Bergmann proposes that pogroms should be \"defined as a \"unilateral, nongovernmental\" form of \"collective\" violence \"initiated by the majority population\" against a largely defenseless ethnic group, and he states that pogroms occur when the \"majority\" expects the state to provide them with no assistance in overcoming a (perceived) threat from the minority,\" but he adds that in Western usage, the word's \"anti-Semitic overtones\" have been retained. Historian David Engel supports this, writing that \"there can be no logically or empirically compelling grounds for declaring that some particular episode does or does not merit the label [pogrom],\" but states that the majority of the incidents \"habitually\" described as pogroms took place in societies significantly divided by ethnicity and/or religion where the violence was committed by the higher-ranking group against a stereotyped lower-ranking group against whom they expressed some complaint, and with the belief that the law of the land would not be used to stop them.\n\nThere is no universally accepted set of characteristics which define the term pogrom. Klier writes that \"when applied indiscriminately to events in Eastern Europe, the term can be misleading, the more so when it implies that 'pogroms' were regular events in the region and that they always shared common features.\" Use of the term pogrom to refer to events in 1918–19 in Polish cities including Kielce, Pinsk and Lwów, was specifically avoided in the 1919 Morgenthau Report and the word \"excesses\" was used instead because the authors argued that the use of the term \"pogrom\" required a situation to be antisemitic rather than political in nature, which meant that it was inapplicable to the conditions existing in a war zone, and media use of the term pogrom to refer to the 1991 Crown Heights riot caused public controversy. In 2008, two separate attacks in the West Bank by Israeli Jewish settlers on Palestinian Arabs were characterized as pogroms by then Prime Minister of Israel Ehud Olmert.\n\nWerner Bergmann suggests a particularly unifying characteristic of all such incidents: \"[b]y the \"collective attribution\" of a threat, the pogrom differs from other forms of violence, such as lynchings, which are directed at individual members of a minority group, while the \"imbalance of power\" in favor of the rioters distinguishes pogroms from other forms of riot (food riots, race riots or 'communal riots' between evenly matched groups); and again, the \"low level of organization\" separates them from vigilantism, terrorism, massacre and genocide\".\n\nThis is a partial list of events for which one of the commonly accepted names includes the word \"pogrom\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11838588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11838588", "title": "Pokémon Mystery Dungeon", "text": "Pokémon Mystery Dungeon\n\nAlthough there are different features in each of the titles, the major gameplay in each title are the same. The player assumes the role of a Pokémon that was transformed from a human, found by the player's Pokémon partner in the start of the game. Before the game starts, the player will need to go through a personality test; this will decide which Pokémon the player is in the game (with the exception of the WiiWare games, \"Gates to Infinity\", and \"Super Mystery Dungeon\", where the player may choose their starter). Gameplay is based on a classic roguelike game, with the player navigating the randomly generated dungeon with their Pokémon team. Movement and actions are turn-based; the player can use basic attacks, Pokémon moves, and items. The game starts with one partner Pokémon, but the player can recruit other Pokémon that they meet in the dungeon into their team soon after the first mission.\n\n\n 5.25 million copies sold from the titles, 5.9 million copies sold from the titles, 650,000+ copies sold from \"\", and 1.22 million copies sold from \"Super Mystery Dungeon\".\n"}
{"id": "417121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417121", "title": "Pokémon Red and Blue", "text": "Pokémon Red and Blue\n\nPokémon Red Version and Blue Version are role-playing video games developed by Game Freak and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy. They are the first installments of the \"Pokémon\" series. They were first released in Japan in 1996 as \"Red\" and \"Green\". \"Blue\" was released later in the year as a special edition. They were later released as \"Red\" and \"Blue\" in North America, Europe, and Australia over the following three years. \"Pokémon Yellow\", a special edition version, was released roughly a year later. \"Red\" and \"Green\" have subsequently been remade for the Game Boy Advance as \"Pokémon FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\", released in 2004.\n\nThe player controls the protagonist from an overhead perspective and navigates him throughout the fictional region of Kanto in a quest to master Pokémon battling. The goal of the games is to become the champion of the Indigo League by defeating the eight Gym Leaders and then the top four Pokémon trainers in the land, the Elite Four. Another objective is to complete the Pokédex, an in-game encyclopedia, by obtaining the 150 available Pokémon. \"Red\" and \"Blue\" utilize the Game Link Cable, which connects two games together and allows Pokémon to be traded or battled between games. Both titles are independent of each other but feature the same plot, and while they can be played separately, it is necessary for players to trade among both games in order to obtain all of the first 150 Pokémon.\n\n\"Red\" and \"Blue\" were well-received with critics praising the multiplayer options, especially the concept of trading. They received an aggregated score of 89% on GameRankings and are considered among the greatest games ever made, perennially ranked on top game lists including at least four years on IGN's Top 100 Games of All Time. The games' releases marked the beginning of what would become a multibillion-dollar franchise, jointly selling hundreds of millions of copies worldwide. In 2009 they appeared in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" under \"Best selling RPG on the Game Boy\" and \"Best selling RPG of all time\". The games were re-released on the Nintendo 3DS Virtual Console service as a commemoration of the franchise's 20th anniversary in 2016.\n\n\"Red\" and \"Blue\" are played in a third-person view, overhead perspective and consist of three basic screens: an overworld, in which the player navigates the main character; a side-view battle screen; and a menu interface, in which the player configures his or her Pokémon, items, or gameplay settings.\n\nThe player can use his or her Pokémon to battle other Pokémon. When the player encounters a wild Pokémon or is challenged by a trainer, the screen switches to a turn-based battle screen that displays the engaged Pokémon. During a battle, the player may select a maneuver for his or her Pokémon to fight using one of four moves, use an item, switch his or her active Pokémon, or attempt to flee. Pokémon have hit points (HP); when a Pokémon's HP is reduced to zero, it faints and can no longer battle until it is revived. Once an enemy Pokémon faints, the player's Pokémon involved in the battle receive a certain number of experience points (EXP). After accumulating enough EXP, a Pokémon will level up. A Pokémon's level controls its physical properties, such as the battle statistics acquired, and the moves it has learned. At certain levels, the Pokémon may also evolve. These evolutions affect the statistics and the levels at which new moves are learned (higher levels of evolution gain more statistics per level, although they may not learn new moves as early, if at all, compared with the lower levels of evolution).\n\nCatching Pokémon is another essential element of the gameplay. While battling with a wild Pokémon, the player may throw a Poké Ball at it. If the Pokémon is successfully caught, it will come under the player's ownership. Factors in the success rate of capture include the HP of the target Pokémon and the type of Poké Ball used: the lower the target's HP and the stronger the Poké Ball, the higher the success rate of capture. The ultimate goal of the games is to complete the entries in the Pokédex, a comprehensive Pokémon encyclopedia, by capturing, evolving, and trading to obtain all 151 creatures.\n\n\"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\" allow players to trade Pokémon between two cartridges via a Game Link Cable. This method of trading must be done to fully complete the Pokédex since certain Pokémon will only evolve upon being traded and each of the two games have version-exclusive Pokémon. The Link Cable also makes it possible to battle another player's Pokémon team. When playing \"Red\" or \"Blue\" on a Game Boy Advance or SP, the standard GBA/SP link cable will not work; players must use the Nintendo Universal Game Link Cable instead. Moreover, the English versions of the games are incompatible with their Japanese counterparts, and such trades will corrupt the save files, as the games use different languages and therefore character sets.\n\nAs well as trading with each other and \"Pokémon Yellow\", \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\" can trade Pokémon with the second generation of Pokémon games: \"Pokémon Gold\", \"Silver\", and \"Crystal\". However, there are limitations: the games cannot link together if one player's party contains Pokémon or moves introduced in the second generation games. Also, using the Transfer Pak for the Nintendo 64, data such as Pokémon and items from \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\" can be used in the Nintendo 64 games \"Pokémon Stadium\" and \"Pokémon Stadium 2\". \"Red\" and \"Blue\" are incompatible with the \"Pokémon\" games of the later \"Advanced Generation\" for the Game Boy Advance or GameCube.\n\n\"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\" take place in the region of Kanto. This is one distinct region shown in later games, with different geographical habitats for the 151 existing Pokémon species, along with human-populated towns and cities, and Routes connecting locations with one another. Some areas are only accessible once the player learns a special ability or gains a special item. Areas in which the player can catch Pokémon range from caves to the sea, where the kinds of Pokémon available to catch varies. For example, Tentacool can only be caught either through fishing or when the player is in a body of water, while Zubat can only be caught in a cave.\n\nThe player begins in their hometown of Pallet Town. After venturing alone into the tall grass, the player is stopped by Professor Oak, a famous Pokémon researcher. Professor Oak explains to the player that wild Pokémon may be living there, and encountering them alone can be very dangerous. He takes the player to his laboratory where the player meets Oak's grandson, a rival aspiring Pokémon Trainer. The player and the rival are both instructed to select a starter Pokémon for their travels out of Bulbasaur, Squirtle, and Charmander. Oak's Grandson will always choose the Pokémon which is stronger against the player's starting Pokémon. He will then challenge the player to a Pokémon battle with their newly obtained Pokémon and will continue to battle the player at certain points throughout the games.\n\nWhile visiting the region's cities, the player will encounter special establishments called Gyms. Inside these buildings are Gym Leaders, each of whom the player must defeat in a Pokémon battle to obtain a total of eight Gym Badges. Once the badges are acquired, the player is given permission to enter the Indigo League, which consists of the best Pokémon trainers in the region. There the player will battle the Elite Four and finally the new Champion: the player's rival. Also, throughout the game, the player will have to battle against the forces of Team Rocket, a criminal organization that abuses Pokémon. They devise numerous plans for stealing rare Pokémon, which the player must foil.\n\nThe concept of the \"Pokémon\" saga stems from the hobby of insect collecting, a popular pastime which game designer Satoshi Tajiri enjoyed as a child. While growing up, however, he observed more urbanization taking place in the town where he lived and as a result, the insect population declined. Tajiri noticed that kids now played in their homes instead of outside and he came up with the idea of a video game, containing creatures that resembled insects, called Pokémon. He thought kids could relate with the Pokémon by individually naming them, and then controlling them to represent fear or anger as a good way of relieving stress. However, Pokémon never bleed nor die in battle, only faint – this was a very touchy subject to Tajiri, as he did not want to further fill the gaming world with \"pointless violence\".\n\nWhen the Game Boy was released, Tajiri thought the system was perfect for his idea, especially because of the link cable, which he envisioned would allow players to trade Pokémon with each other. This concept of trading information was new to the video gaming industry because previously connection cables were only being used for competition. \"I imagined a chunk of information being transferred by connecting two Game Boys with special cables, and I went wow, that's really going to be something!\" said Tajiri. Tajiri was also influenced by Square's Game Boy game \"The Final Fantasy Legend\", noting in an interview that the game gave him the idea that more than just action games could be developed for the handheld.\n\nThe main characters were named after Tajiri himself as Satoshi, who is described as Tajiri in his youth, and his long-time friend, role model, mentor, and fellow Nintendo developer; Shigeru Miyamoto as Shigeru. Ken Sugimori, an artist and longtime friend of Tajiri, headed the development of drawings and designs of the Pokémon, working with a team of fewer than ten people who conceived the various designs for all 151 Pokémon. Sugimori, in turn, finalized each design, drawing the Pokémon from various angles in order to assist Game Freak's graphics department in properly rendering the creature. Music for the game was composed by Junichi Masuda, who utilized the four sound channels of the Game Boy to create both the melodies and the sound effects and Pokémon \"cries\" heard upon encountering them. He noted the game's opening theme, titled \"Monster\", was produced with the image of battle scenes in mind, using white noise to sound like marching music and imitate a snare drum.\n\nOriginally called \"Capsule Monsters\", the game's title went through several transitions due to trademark difficulties, becoming \"CapuMon\" and \"KapuMon\" before eventually settling upon \"Pocket Monsters\". Tajiri always thought that Nintendo would reject his game, as the company did not really understand the concept at first. However, the games turned out to be a complete success, something Tajiri and Nintendo never expected, especially because of the declining popularity of the Game Boy. Upon hearing of the \"Pokémon\" concept, Miyamoto suggested creating multiple cartridges with different Pokémon in each, noting it would assist the trading aspect.\n\nIn Japan, \"Pocket Monsters: Red\" and \"Green\" were the first versions released, having been completed by October 1995 and officially released on February 27, 1996. They sold rapidly, due in part to Nintendo's idea of producing the two versions of the game instead of a single title, prompting consumers to buy both. Several months later, the \"\" version was released in Japan as a mail-order-only special edition, featuring updated in-game artwork and new dialogue. To create more hype and challenge to the games, Tajiri revealed an extra Pokémon called Mew hidden within the games, which he believed \"created a lot of rumors and myths about the game\" and \"kept the interest alive\". The creature was originally added by Shigeki Morimoto as an internal prank and wasn't supposed to be exposed to consumers. It was not until later that Nintendo decided to distribute Mew through a Nintendo promotional event. However, in 2003 a glitch became widely known and could be exploited so anyone could obtain the elusive Pokémon.\n\nDuring the North American localization of \"Pokémon\", a small team led by Hiro Nakamura went through the individual Pokémon, renaming them for western audiences based on their appearance and characteristics after approval from Nintendo Co. Ltd. In addition, during this process, Nintendo trademarked the 151 Pokémon names in order to ensure they would be unique to the franchise. During the translation process, it became apparent that simply altering the games' text from Japanese to English was impossible; the games had to be entirely reprogrammed from scratch due to the fragile state of their source code, a side effect of the unusually lengthy development time. Therefore, the games were based on the more modern Japanese version of \"Blue\"; modeling its programming and artwork, but keeping the same distribution of Pokémon found in the Japanese \"Red\" and \"Green\" cartridges, respectively.\n\nAs the finished \"Red\" and \"Blue\" versions were being prepared for release, Nintendo allegedly spent over 50 million dollars to promote the games, fearing the series would not be appealing to American children. The western localization team warned that the \"cute monsters\" may not be accepted by American audiences, and instead recommended they be redesigned and \"beefed-up\". Then-president of Nintendo Hiroshi Yamauchi refused and instead viewed the games' possible reception in America as a challenge to face. Despite these setbacks, the reprogrammed \"Red\" and \"Blue\" versions with their original creature designs were eventually released in North America over two and a half years after \"Red\" and \"Green\" debuted in Japan. The games were received extremely well by the foreign audiences and Pokémon went on to become a lucrative franchise in America.\n\nThe music was composed by Junichi Masuda on a Commodore Amiga computer, which only features PCM sample playback, and converted to the Game Boy with a program he had written.\n\n\"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\" set the precedent for what has become a blockbuster, multibillion-dollar franchise. By 1997, \"Red\", \"Green\", and \"Blue\" combined had sold 10.4 million copies in Japan. By the end of its run, it had sold a total combined sale of 9.85 million in the United States while an additional 3.56 million have been sold in the United Kingdom. The games worldwide sales have reached over 31 million copies sold. In 2009, IGN referred to \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\" as the \"Best selling RPG on the Game Boy\" and \"Best selling RPG of all time\".\n\nThe games received mostly positive reviews from critics, holding an aggregate score of 87.86% on GameRankings. Special praise was given to its multiplayer features: the ability to trade and battle Pokémon with one another. Craig Harris of IGN gave the games a \"masterful\" 10 out of 10, noting that: \"Even if you finish the quest, you still might not have all the Pokémon in the game. The challenge to catch 'em all is truly the game's biggest draw\". He also commented on the popularity of the game, especially among children, describing it as a \"craze\". GameSpot's Peter Bartholow, who gave the games a \"great\" 8.8 out of 10, cited the graphics and audio as somewhat primitive but stated that these were the games' only drawbacks. He praised the titles' replay value due to their customization and variety, and commented upon their universal appeal: \"Under its cuddly exterior, Pokémon is a serious and unique RPG with lots of depth and excellent multiplayer extensions. As an RPG, the game is accessible enough for newcomers to the genre to enjoy, but it will entertain hard-core fans as well. It's easily one of the best Game Boy games to date\".\n\nThe success of these games has been attributed to their innovative gaming experience rather than audiovisual effects. Papers published by the Columbia Business School indicate both American and Japanese children prefer the actual gameplay of a game over special audio or visual effects. In \"Pokémon\" games, the lack of these artificial effects has actually been said to promote the child's imagination and creativity. \"With all the talk of game engines and texture mapping and so on, there is something refreshing about this superlative gameplay which makes you ignore the cutesy 8-bit graphics\" commented \"The Guardian\".\n\nThe video gaming website 1UP.com composed a list of the \"Top 5 'Late to the Party' Games\" showing selected titles that \"prove a gaming platform's untapped potential\" and were one of the last games released for their respective console. \"Red\" and \"Blue\" were ranked first and called Nintendo's \"secret weapon\" when the games were brought out for the Game Boy in the late 1990s. \"Nintendo Power\" listed the \"Red\" and \"Blue\" versions together as the third best video game for the Game Boy/Game Boy Color, stating that something about the game kept them playing until they caught every Pokémon. \"Game Informer\"s Ben Reeves called them (along with \"Pokémon Yellow\", \"Gold\", \"Silver\", and \"Crystal\") the second best Game Boy games and stated that it had more depth than it appeared. \"Official Nintendo Magazine\" named the games one of the best Nintendo games of all time, placing 52nd on their list of the top 100 games. \"Red\" and \"Blue\" made number 72 on \"IGN's Top 100 Games of All Time\" in 2003, in which the reviewers noted that the pair of games \"started a revolution\" and praised the deep game design and complex strategy, as well the option to trade between other games. Two years later, it climbed the ranks to number 70 in the updated list, with the games' legacy again noted to have inspired multiple video game sequels, movies, television shows, and other merchandise, strongly rooting it in popular culture. In 2007 \"Red\" and \"Blue\" were ranked at number 37 on the list, and the reviewers remarked at the games' longevity:\n\nThe games are widely credited with starting and helping pave the way for the successful multibillion-dollar series. Five years after \"Red\" and \"Blue\"'s initial release, Nintendo celebrated its \"Pokémoniversary\". George Harrison, the senior vice president of marketing and corporate communications of Nintendo of America, stated that \"those precious gems [\"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\"] have evolved into \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\". The release of \"Pokémon Pinball\" kicks off a line of great new Pokémon adventures that will be introduced in the coming months\". The series has since sold over 300 million games, all accredited to the enormous success of the original \"Red\" and \"Blue\" versions.\n\nOn February 12, 2014, an anonymous Australian programmer launched Twitch Plays \"Pokémon\", a \"social experiment\" on the video streaming website Twitch. The project was a crowdsourced attempt to play a modified version of \"Pokémon Red\" by typing commands into the channel's chat log, with an average of 50,000 viewers participating at the same time. The result was compared to \"watching a car crash in slow motion\". The game was completed on March 1, 2014, boasting 390 hours of multi-user controlled non-stop gameplay.\n\n was released in Japan as a mail-order-only special edition to subscribers of \"CoroCoro Comic\" on October 15, 1996. It was later released to general retail on October 10, 1999. The game featured updated in-game artwork and new dialogue. Using Blastoise as its mascot, the code, script, and artwork for \"Blue\" was used for the international releases of \"Red\" and \"Green\", which were renamed to \"Red\" and \"Blue\". The Japanese \"Blue\" edition of the game features all but a handful of Pokémon available in \"Red\" and \"Green\", making certain Pokémon exclusive to these original editions.\n\n, or simply Pokémon Yellow Version, was a special edition of the \"Red\" and \"Blue\" versions, and was originally released on September 12, 1998, in Japan, with releases in North America and Europe on October 1, 1999, and June 16, 2000, respectively. The game was designed to resemble the \"Pokémon\" anime series, with the player receiving a Pikachu as his starter Pokémon, and his rival starting with an Eevee. Some non-player characters resemble those from the anime, including Team Rocket: Jessie and James.\n\n are enhanced remakes of \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\". The new titles were developed by Game Freak and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy Advance and have compatibility with the Game Boy Advance Wireless Adapter, which originally came bundled with the games. However, due to the new variables added to \"LeafGreen\" and \"FireRed\" (such as changing the single, \"Special\" stat into two separate \"Special Attack\" and \"Special Defense\" stats), these titles are not compatible with older versions. \"FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\" were first released in Japan on January 29, 2004, and released to North America and Europe on September 9 and October 1, respectively. Nearly two years after their original release, Nintendo re-marketed them as \"Player's Choice\" titles.\n\nThe games received critical acclaim, obtaining an aggregate score of 81 percent on Metacritic. Most critics praised the fact that the games introduced new features while still maintaining the traditional gameplay of the series. Reception of the graphics and audio was more mixed, with some reviewers complaining that they were too simplistic and not much of an improvement over the previous games, \"Pokémon Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\". \"FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\" were commercial successes, selling a total of around 12 million copies worldwide.\n\nOn November 12, 2015, Nintendo announced during a Nintendo Direct that the original generation of \"Pokémon\" games would be released on the Nintendo 3DS Virtual Console service on February 27, 2016, the 20th anniversary of the games' original Japanese release. The games also include a first for the Virtual Console—simulated Link Cable functionality to allow trading and battling between games. Each region received the versions of the game as originally released; as such, \"Green\" is exclusive to Japanese consumers. These versions are able to transfer Pokémon to \"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" via the \"Pokémon Bank\" application.\n\nThere is also a special bundle along with the Nintendo 2DS with each console matching the corresponding color of the game version which was released in Japan, Europe, and Australia on February 27, 2016. North America received a special New Nintendo 3DS bundle with cover plates of Red and Blue's box art.\n\nBy March 31, 2016, combined sales of the re-releases reached 1.5 million units with more than half being sold in the American market.\n\n"}
{"id": "1737781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1737781", "title": "Schizocoely", "text": "Schizocoely\n\nSchizocoely (adjective forms: schizocoelous or schizocoelic) is a process by which some animal embryos develop. Animals which develop through schizocoely are known as schizocoelomates. Schizocoely occurs when a coelom (body cavity) is formed by splitting the mesodermal embryonic tissue. \n\nSchizocoelous development is typically attributed to protostomes: phyla Mollusca, Annelida, and Arthropoda, but some deuterostomes can exhibit schizocoely as well. \n\nThe term refers to the order of organization of cells in the gastrula leading to development of the coelom. In these three phyla of organisms, the mesoderm (the middle germ layer) forms as a solid mass of migrated cells from the single layer of the gastrula. The new mesoderm then splits, creating the pocket-like cavity of the coelom.\n\n"}
{"id": "6763574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6763574", "title": "Sewell Foster", "text": "Sewell Foster\n\nStephen Sewell Foster (born Sewell Foster) (November 22, 1792 – December 29, 1868) was a physician and political figure in Canada East.\n\nHe was born in Oakham, Massachusetts in 1792. He studied medicine, was licensed to practice in Vermont in 1815 and settled in Newfane there. In 1822, he moved to Frost Village near Waterloo in Lower Canada with his family. He was licensed to practice medicine in the province in 1830. He served as surgeon to a militia battalion and was also coroner for the Bedford District and a justice of the peace in Shefford County. Foster also was a founder and served as administrator for the Shefford Academy in Frost Village. In 1841, he was elected to represent Shefford in the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada and was reelected in 1844. He served as a governor of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Lower Canada from 1847 to 1866. In 1857, he moved to Knowlton where he continued to practice medicine until his death in 1868.\n\nHis son Asa Belknap also served as a member of the Legislative Assembly and was named to the Senate of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "14505462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14505462", "title": "Sit tibi terra levis", "text": "Sit tibi terra levis\n\nSit tibi terra levis (commonly abbreviated as \"S·T·T·L\" or \"S.T.T.L.\" or \"STTL\") is a Latin inscription used on funerary items from ancient Roman times onwards. The English language translation is approximately \"May the earth rest lightly on you\" or \"May the ground be light to you\"; the more literal, word by word, translation, is \"sit\" \"may be\", \"tibi\" \"to you\", \"terra\" \"ground, soil\", \"levis\" \"light\" (in the sense of the opposite of \"heavy\").\n\nThe origin of the phrase can be found in Euripides' \"Alcestis\"; the phrase in Greek is , \"koupha soi chthon epanothe pesoi\". Euripides' phrase \"underwent all kinds of variations\", especially in Latin poets like Propertius, Ovid, Martial and Persius; although some minor variants like \"Sit Ei Terra Levis\" -abbreviated to \"SETL\"- are attested, and excluding Roman Africa which developed its own stock formula (\"Ossa Tibi Bene Quiescant\" -\"OTBQ\"- or similar), in Latin epitaphs the phrase became formulaic, acquiring the aforementioned abbreviation. On the contrary, in Greek epitaphs, it never became such a fixed formula; it is found in various forms, e.g. \n\nThe Latin formula was usually located at the end of the inscription; at the beginning, another formulaic phrase was often used: \"Dis Manibus\", i.e. \"To the spirits of the dead\"; first thus, then shortened to \"Dis Man\" and finally to \"DM\". The latter, along with \"STTL\", had replaced in about mid-first century CE, the older model, common during the first century BCE and first century CE, of ending the inscription with \"Hic situs est\" or \"Hic sita est\" (\"he \"or\" she lies here\"; abbreviated to \"HSE\"), and the name of the dead person.\n\nNotes\n\nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "40849142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849142", "title": "Spies v Smith", "text": "Spies v Smith\n\nIn Spies v Smith, an important case in the South African law of succession, the testator was mentally retarded and epileptic, and had appointed the two daughters of his step-mother as his sole heirs. When the testator’s father died, he went to live with his uncle. Thereafter, the testator made a new will appointing the sons of his uncle as his heirs.\n\nThe testator’s step-mother alleged that his uncle had unduly influenced him to pass this second will, but the court held that she did not discharge the requisite onus of proving such.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56456227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56456227", "title": "Spindle (vehicle)", "text": "Spindle (vehicle)\n\nSPINDLE (Sub-glacial Polar Ice Navigation, Descent, and Lake Exploration) is a 2-stage autonomous vehicle system consisting of a robotic ice-penetrating carrier vehicle (cryobot) and an autonomous submersible HAUV (hovering autonomous underwater vehicle).\nThe cryobot is designed to descend through an ice body into a sub-surface ocean and deploy the HAUV submersible to conduct long range reconnaissance, life search, and sample collection. The HAUV submesible will return to, and auto-dock with, the cryobot at the conclusion of the mission for subsequent data uplink and sample return to the surface.\n\nThe SPINDLE designed is targeted at sub-glacial lakes such as Lake Vostok and South Pole Lake in Antarctica. SPINDLE would develop the technologies for a Flagship-class mission to either the shallow lakes of Jupiter's moon Europa, the sub-surface ocean of Ganymede, or the geyser sources on both Europa and Enceladus. The project is funded by NASA and is being designed at Stone Aerospace under the supervision of Principal Investigator Bill Stone..\n\nIn 2011, NASA awarded Stone Aerospace $4 million to fund Phase 2 of project VALKYRIE (Very-Deep Autonomous Laser-Powered Kilowatt-Class Yo-Yoing Robotic Ice Explorer). This project created an autonomous cryobot capable of melting through vast amounts of ice. The 5 kW power source on the surface uses optic fiber to conduct a high-energy laser beam to produce hot water jets that melt the ice ahead. Some beam energy is converted to electricity via photovoltaic cells to power on-board electronics and jet pumps. Phase 2 of project VALKYRIE consisted of testing a scaled-down version of the cryobot in Matanuska Glacier, Alaska in 2015. \n\nStone Aerospace is now looking at designs integrating a scaled-down version of the HAUV submersible called ARTEMIS (4.3 m long, 1,270 kg)\n\nSPINDLE is designed for a 1.5 km to 4 km penetration through a terrestrial ice sheet and the HAUV has been designed for exploration up to one kilometer radius from the cryobot. The cryobot is bi-directional and vertically controllable both in an ice sheet as well as following breakthrough into a subglacial water cavity or ocean. The vehicle is designed for subsequent return to the surface at a much later date or subsequent season.\n\nThe required power plant must be very powerful, so the engineers are working on preliminary designs of a compact fission power plant that would be used for actual ocean planet missions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1503658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1503658", "title": "Stretch marks", "text": "Stretch marks\n\nStretch marks, also known as striae, are a form of scarring on the skin with an off-color hue. Over time they may diminish, but will not disappear completely. Stretch marks form during rapid growth of the body, such as during puberty or pregnancy. In pregnancy they usually form during the last trimester, and usually on the belly, but also commonly occur on the breasts, thighs, hips, lower back and buttocks. These are known as striae gravidarum.\nStretch marks are caused by tearing of the dermis. This is often from the rapid stretching of the skin associated with rapid growth or rapid weight changes. Stretch marks may also be influenced by hormonal changes associated with puberty, pregnancy, bodybuilding, or hormone replacement therapy.\nThere is no evidence that creams used during pregnancy prevent stretch marks. Once they have formed there is no clearly effective treatment, though various methods have been attempted and studied.\n\nStriae, or \"stretch marks\", begin as reddish or purple lesions, which can appear anywhere on the body, but are most likely to appear in places where larger amounts of fat are stored; the most common places are the abdomen (especially near the navel), breasts, upper arms, underarms, back, thighs (both inner and outer), hips, and buttocks. Over time, they tend to atrophy and lose pigmentation. The affected areas appear empty, and are soft to the touch.\n\nStretch marks occur in the dermis, the resilient middle tissue layer that helps the skin retain its shape. No stretch marks will form as long as there is support within the dermis; stretching plays a role in where the marks occur and in what direction they run, however, there are a number of contributing factors (see: \"Causes\", below) to their formation.\nThey can (but do not always) cause a burning and itching sensation, as well as emotional distress. They pose no health risk in and of themselves, and do not compromise the body's ability to function normally and repair itself, however, they are often considered a cosmetic nuisance. Young women are generally affected the most and often seek treatment for them from a dermatologist and following pregnancy.\nStretch marks appear to be caused by stretching of the skin. This is especially true when there is an increase in cortisone.\n\nIn other words, an increase in cortisone levels can increase the probability or severity of stretch marks by reducing the skin's pliability; more specifically, it affects the dermis by preventing the fibroblasts from forming collagen and elastin fibers, necessary to keep rapidly growing skin taut. This can create a lack of supportive material as the skin is stretched, and lead to dermal and epidermal tearing, which in turn can produce scarring in the form of stretch marks. This is particularly the case when there is new tissue growth (which can interfere with the underlying physical support of the dermis or epidermis, by displacing the supportive tissue).\n\nExamples of cases where stretch marks are common, also given by the Mayo Clinic, include weight gain (in the form of fat and/or muscle), pregnancy, and adolescent growth spurts, though it is also noted that some medications, as well as other medical conditions and diseases, may increase the likelihood of stretch marks appearing. In the case of medication, the Clinic points to \"Corticosteroid creams, lotions and pills and chronic use of oral or systemic steroids\" as a common contributing factor; in the case of medical conditions that can contribute to stretch marks, examples given include Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Cushing's syndrome, Marfan syndrome, and \"adrenal gland diseases\".\n\nPregnancy stretch marks, also known as striae gravidarum, is a specific form of scarring of the skin of the abdominal area due to rapid expansion of the uterus as well as sudden weight gain during pregnancy. About 90% of women are affected.\n\nA number of additional factors appear to promote the appearance of stretchmarks: one study of 324 women, done just after they had given birth, demonstrated that low maternal age, high body mass index, weight gain over 15 kg (33 pounds) and higher neonatal birth weight were independently correlated with the occurrence of striae. Teenagers were found to be at the highest risk of developing severe striae.\n\nThese off-color blemishes are symptoms of pregnancy caused by the tearing of the dermis, resulting in atrophy and loss of rete ridges. These scars often appear as reddish or bluish streaks on the abdomen, and can also appear on the breasts and thighs. Some of these striae disappear with time, while others remain as permanent discolorations of the body.\n\nMechanical distension and rapidly developing areas of the body during pregnancy (such as the abdomen, breasts, and thighs) are most commonly associated with striae formation. Some have suggested that relaxin and estrogen combined with higher levels of cortisol during pregnancy can cause an accumulation of muocopolysaccharides, which increases water absorption of connective tissue, making it prime for tearing under mechanical stress. There also seems to be an association between higher body mass indices and in women with bigger babies and the incidence and severity of striae. Also, younger women seem to be at higher risk of developing striae during pregnancy.\n\nThe prevalence and severity of striae gravidarum varies among populations. The current literature suggest that in the general population of the US, there is a 50%-90% prevalence of striae associated with pregnancy, partly as a result of the normal hormonal changes of pregnancy and partly due to stretching of skin fibers. Many women experience striae gravidarum during their first pregnancy. Nearly 45% percent of women develop striae gravidarum before 24 weeks of gestation. Many women who develop lesions during the first pregnancy do not develop them during later pregnancies. Genetic factors such as family history and race also seem to be predictive in the appearance of striae.\n\nA systematic review has not found evidence that creams and oils are useful for preventing or reducing stretch marks in pregnancy. The safety in pregnancy of one ingredient, Centella asiatica, has been questioned. Evidence on treatments for reducing the appearance of the scars after pregnancy is limited.\n\nThere is no clearly useful treatment for stretch marks though various things are tried.\n\nVarious efforts that have been tried including laser treatments, glycolic acid, and microdermabrasion. Topical tretinoin is categorized by the FDA as a known teratogen (causing malformations in fetuses) in animals, without adequate human studies on safety in pregnancy.\n\nCarboxytherapy has been used; however, there is a lack of evidence to support its use.\n\nSince ancient times, pregnant women have sought remedies to prevent stretch marks during pregnancy. Both ancient Greeks and Romans used olive oil, while Ethiopians and Somalis used frankincense.\n\nMedical terminology for these kinds of markings includes striae atrophicae, vergetures, stria distensae, striae cutis distensae, lineae atrophicae, linea albicante, or simply striae.\n"}
{"id": "51319444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51319444", "title": "Vokkaligara Sangha", "text": "Vokkaligara Sangha\n\nVokkaligara Sangha is a democratically elected Vokkaliga community organisation that was founded in 1906 in Bengaluru to promote the social, cultural and educational aspirations of the Vokkaliga community. Vokkaligara Sangha has its headquarters in Bengaluru, Karnataka and has many affiliated regional sanghas. Today, Vokkaligara Sangha is one of the top community organisations in Karnataka State that serves the Vokkaliga community in different areas.\n\nVokkaligara Sangha has a well structured election system. Elected members handle key roles in Sangha's activities and Sangha owned institutions. Elected members serve as community representatives of their regions.\n\nSangha owns reputed educational institutions like Bangalore Institute of Technology and Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS).\n\nThe Sangha runs the following prominent institutions, among others:\n\n"}
