{"id": "47189853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47189853", "title": "2,4,5-Trihydroxyamphetamine", "text": "2,4,5-Trihydroxyamphetamine\n\n2,4,5-Trihydroxyamphetamine (THM) is a neurotoxin and a metabolite of MDMA. It comes from the ring-hydroxylation of 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA).\n\nIn one paper, it was shown to reduce hippocampal tryptophan hydroxylase activity by 54% after short-term treatment. In another study, it was shown to significantly reduce striatal tyrosine hydroxylase activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "59042471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59042471", "title": "Access to Medical Reports Act 1988", "text": "Access to Medical Reports Act 1988\n\nThe Access to Medical Reports Act 1988 (c.28) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which applies to people in England, Wales and Scotland. \n\nIt gives patients the right to see reports written about them by a doctor for employment purposes or insurance purposes with whom they have a normal doctor-patient relationship. Patients can see a report before it is submitted and request changes. Access to a report can be withheld if the doctor thinks it likely to cause serious harm to the physical or mental health of the individual or others or indicate the intentions of the practitioner in respect of the individual, or to reveal the identity of another person who has supplied information.\n"}
{"id": "31202706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31202706", "title": "Ambulatist", "text": "Ambulatist\n\nAn ambulatist is a licensed health care provider who specializes in the prevention, management, and care coordination of ambulatory patients with chronic diseases by using lifestyle medicine and drug therapy.\n\nNearly half of all Americans live with at least one chronic condition and ~70% of all American deaths can be attributed directly to chronic diseases. Care coordination is necessary to curb the progression and cost associated with chronic disease in The United States.\nThe ambulatist model of care coordination began in 2008 at Creighton University in Omaha, Nebraska. The Cardiovascular Risk Reduction Prog ram (CVRRP) and Diabetes Risk Reduction Program (DMRRP) are employee wellness benefit programs for Creighton employees with the diagnoses of hypertension, dyslipidemia and/or diabetes. The programs are run by a health care specialty position called the \"ambulatist\". An ambulatist can be any licensed health care provider who receives training in direct patient care and lifestyle medicine. The areas of lifestyle medicine emphasized can include physical activity, nutrition, weight control, stress management, sleep success and tobacco cessation. Creighton University is now developing an ambulatist training program to expand the use of ambulatist services across a variety of practice settings.\n\nThe goals of an ambulatist include:\n\n\nThe responsibilities of an ambulatist include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3391978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3391978", "title": "American Aging Association", "text": "American Aging Association\n\nThe American Aging Association is a non-profit, tax-exempt biogerontology organization of scientists and laypeople dedicated to biomedical aging studies and geroscience, with the goal of slowing the aging process to extend the healthy human lifespan while preserving and restoring functions typically lost to age-related degeneration. The abbreviation AGE is intended to be representative of the organization, even though it is not an acronym (avoids possible confusion with the American Automobile Association, AAA).\n\nAGE was founded in 1970 by Denham Harman, MD, PhD, who is often known as the \"father\" of the \"free-radical theory of aging\". Dr. Harman's goal was to form a lay-scientific organization patterned after the American Heart Association to promote biomedical aging research. Dr. Harman served as the first president of AGE, and was executive director of AGE for 20 years (1973 to 1993).\n\nAGE has received research grants from the National Institutes of Health and the Ellison Medical Foundation. In 2016, AGE became a member of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.\n\nThe vice-presidency of AGE is to be a layperson position focused on promoting the scientific goals of AGE to the general public.\n\nThe primary activities of AGE are to:\n\nThe journal of AGE is \"GeroScience\". Formerly called \"AGE\", the journal name was officially changed at the beginning of 2017.\n\nConferences\n\n"}
{"id": "6821757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6821757", "title": "Aspartame controversy", "text": "Aspartame controversy\n\nThe artificial sweetener aspartame has been the subject of several controversies since its initial approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1974. The FDA approval of aspartame was highly contested, with critics alleging that the quality of the initial research supporting its safety was inadequate and flawed, and that conflicts of interest marred the 1981 approval of aspartame. In 1987, the U.S. Government Accountability Office concluded that the food additive approval process had been followed properly for aspartame. The irregularities fueled a conspiracy theory, which the \"Nancy Markle\" email hoax circulated, along with claims — counter to the weight of medical evidence — that numerous health conditions (such as multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus, methanol toxicity, blindness, spasms, shooting pains, seizures, headaches, depression, anxiety, memory loss, birth defects, and death) are caused by the consumption of aspartame in normal doses.\n\nPotential health risks have been examined and dismissed by numerous scientific research projects. With the exception of the risk to those with phenylketonuria, aspartame is considered to be a safe food additive by governments worldwide and major health and food safety organizations. FDA officials describe aspartame as \"one of the most thoroughly tested and studied food additives the agency has ever approved\" and its safety as \"clear cut.\" The weight of existing scientific evidence indicates that aspartame is safe as a non-nutritive sweetener.\n\nThe controversy over aspartame safety originated in perceived irregularities in the aspartame approval process during the 1970s and early 1980s, including allegations of a revolving door relationship between regulators and industry and claims that aspartame producer G.D. Searle had withheld and falsified safety data. In 1996, the controversy reached a wider audience with a \"60 Minutes\" report that discussed criticisms of the FDA approval process and concerns that aspartame could cause brain tumors in humans. The \"60 Minutes\" special stated that \"aspartame's approval was one of the most contested in FDA history.\"\n\nAround the same time, a Usenet post was widely circulated under the pen name \"Nancy Markle\", creating the basis for a misleading and unverifiable hoax chain letter that was spread through the Internet. Numerous websites have spread the email's claims, which were not backed by scientific evidence, about safety issues purportedly linked to aspartame, including Gulf War Syndrome and lupus.\n\nAspartame was originally approved for use in dry foods in 1974 by then FDA Commissioner Alexander Schmidt after review by the FDA's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. Searle had submitted 168 studies on aspartame, including seven animal studies that were considered crucial by the FDA. Soon afterwards, John Olney, a professor of psychiatry and prominent critic of MSG, along with James Turner, a public-interest lawyer and author of an anti-food-additive book, filed a petition for a public hearing, citing safety concerns. Other criticisms presented in the 1996 \"60 Minutes\" special of the Searle studies included assertions of unreported medical treatments that may have affected the study outcomes and discrepancies in the reported data. Schmidt agreed, pending an investigation into alleged improprieties in safety studies for aspartame and several drugs.\n\nIn December 1975, the FDA placed a stay on the aspartame approval, preventing Searle from marketing aspartame. The Searle studies were criticized by the FDA commissioner as \"... at best ... sloppy and suffering from \"... a pattern of conduct which compromises the scientific integrity of the studies.\"\nU.S. Attorney Samuel Skinner was requested to \"open a grand jury investigation into whether two of Searle's aspartame studies had been falsified or were incomplete.\" Skinner withdrew from the case when he was considering a job offer from the law firm Sidley & Austin, Searle's Chicago-based law firm, a job he later took. The investigation was delayed and eventually the statute of limitations on the charges against Searle expired and a grand jury was never convened.\n\nIn 1977 and 1978, an FDA task force and a panel of academic pathologists reviewed 15 aspartame studies by Searle, and concluded that, although there were major lapses in quality control, the resulting inconsistencies would not have affected the studies' conclusions. In 1980, a Public Board of Inquiry (PBOI) heard testimony from Olney and disagreed with his claims that aspartame could cause brain damage, including in the developing fetus. The board decided that further study was needed on a postulated connection between aspartame and brain tumors, and revoked approval of aspartame.\n\nIn 1981, FDA Commissioner Arthur Hull Hayes sought advice on the issue from a panel of FDA scientists and a lawyer. The panel identified errors underlying the PBOI conclusion that aspartame might cause brain tumors, and presented arguments both for and against approval. Hayes approved the use of aspartame in dry foods. Hayes further justified his approval by citing the results of a Japanese brain tumor study, the results of which, the PBOI chairman later said, would have resulted in an \"unqualified approval\" from the PBOI panel. Several objections followed, but all were denied. In November 1983, about a year after approving aspartame, Hayes left the FDA and joined the public-relations firm Burson-Marsteller, Searle's public relations agency at the time, as a senior medical adviser.\n\nThe actions of Samuel Skinner, in taking a job with a law firm retained by Searle during an investigation into Searle, and Arthur Hull Hayes, in taking a job with Searle's public relations agency following aspartame's approval, fueled conspiracy theories.\n\nBecause of the approval controversy, Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum requested an investigation by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) of aspartame's approval. In 1987, the GAO reported that protocol had been followed and provided a time-line of events in the approval process. The GAO review included a survey of scientists who had conducted safety reviews; of the 67 scientists who responded to a questionnaire, 12 had major concerns about aspartame's safety, 26 were somewhat concerned but generally confident in aspartame safety, and 29 were very confident in aspartame safety.\n\nFood additive safety evaluations by many countries have led to approval of aspartame, citing the general lack of adverse effects following consumption in reasonable quantities. Based on government research reviews and recommendations from advisory bodies such as those listed above, aspartame has been found to be safe for human consumption by more than ninety countries worldwide.\n\nIn 1976, the FDA notified then-U.S. attorney for Chicago, Sam Skinner, of the ongoing investigation of Searle, and in January 1977, formally requested that a grand jury be convened. In February, 1977, Searle's law firm, Sidley & Austin offered Skinner a job and Skinner recused himself from the case. Mr. Skinner's successor was in place several months later, and the statute of limitations for the alleged offenses expired in October 1977. Despite complaints and urging from DOJ in Washington, neither the interim U.S. attorney for Chicago, William Conlon, nor Skinner's successor, Thomas Sullivan, convened a grand jury. In December, 1977, Sullivan ordered the case dropped for lack of evidence. A year and a half later, Conlon also was hired by Sidley & Austin. Concern about conflict of interest in this case inflamed the controversy, and Senator Metzenbaum investigated in 1981 Senate Hearings. In 1989, the U.S. Senate approved the nomination of Sam Skinner to be Secretary of Transportation, noting that both Sullivan and Senator Metzenbaum had concluded that Skinner had not acted improperly.\n\nRalph G. Walton, a psychiatrist at Northeastern Ohio Universities College of Medicine, stated in a self-published 1996 analysis of aspartame research that industry-funded studies found no safety concerns while 84 of 92 independent studies did identify safety concerns. This analysis by Walton was submitted to the television show \"60 Minutes\" and has been extensively discussed on the Internet. An analysis of Walton's claims showed that Walton left out at least 50 peer-reviewed safety studies from his review of the literature and that most of the research he cites as non-industry funded were actually letters to the editors, case reports, review articles or book chapters rather than published studies. In a rebuttal to Walton's statements, the Aspartame Information Service (a service provided by Ajinomoto, a primary producer and supplier of aspartame), reviewed the publications Walton cites as critical of aspartame, arguing that most of them do not involve aspartame or do not draw negative conclusions, are not peer-reviewed, are anecdotal, or are duplicates.\n\nAn elaborate health scare, involving a hoax conspiracy theory disseminated on many Internet websites in 1999, attributes a host of deleterious medical effects to aspartame. This theory claims that the FDA approval process of aspartame was tainted and cites as its source an email based upon a supposed talk by a \"Nancy Markle\" (thought to be Betty Martini, who first circulated the email) at a \"World Environmental Conference.\" Specifically, the hoax websites allege that aspartame is responsible for multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus, and methanol toxicity, causing \"blindness, spasms, shooting pains, seizures, headaches, depression, anxiety, memory loss, birth defects\" and death. A proliferation of websites, many with sensationalist URLs, are filled with anecdotal claims and medical misinformation. The Markle hoax and its extended argument on \"aspartamekills.com\" have not been supported by medical studies. The email has been described as an \"Internet smear campaign ... Its contents were entirely false, misleading, and defamatory to various popular products and their manufacturers, with no basis whatever in fact.\"\n\nThe \"Markle\" email says that there is a conspiracy between the FDA and the producers of aspartame, and the conspiracy theory has become a canonical example discussed on several Internet conspiracy theory and urban legend websites. Although most of the allegations of this theory contradict the bulk of medical evidence, the misinformation has spread around the world as chain emails since mid-December 1998, influencing many websites as an urban legend that continues to scare consumers. The Media Awareness Network featured one version of it in a tutorial on how to determine the credibility of a web page. The tutorial implied that the \"Markle\" letter was not credible and stated that it should not be used as an authoritative source of information.\n\nDean Edell warned very strongly against the \"Markle\" letter:\n\nIn 1997, due to public concerns, the U.K. government introduced a new regulation obliging food makers who use sweeteners to state clearly next to the name of their product the phrase \"with sweeteners.\"\n\nIn 2007, the Indonesian government considered banning aspartame. In the Philippines, the small political party Alliance for Rural Concerns introduced House Bill 4747 in 2008 with the aim of having aspartame banned from the food supply.\nIn the U.S. state of New Mexico a bill to ban aspartame was introduced in 2007, and subsequently rejected. A similar 2008 Hawaiian bill stalled in committee for lack of evidence. In March 2009, the California OEHHA identified aspartame as a chemical for consultation by its Carcinogen Identification Committee, in accordance with California state Proposition 65, and it was reviewed at the November 15, 2016 meeting.\n\nIn 2007, the U.K. supermarket chains Sainsbury's, M&S, and Wal-Mart subsidiary Asda, announced that they would no longer use aspartame in their own label products. In April 2009, Ajinomoto Sweeteners Europe, one of the makers of aspartame in Europe, responded to Asda's \"no nasties\" campaign by filing a complaint of malicious falsehood against Asda in the English courts. In July 2009, Asda initially won the legal case after the trial judge construed the \"no nasties\" labelling to \"not mean that aspartame was potentially harmful or unhealthy.\" The decision was reversed in June 2010, upon appeal, and was settled in 2011 with ASDA removing references to aspartame from its packaging.\n\nIn 2009, the South African retailer Woolworths announced it was removing aspartame-containing foods from its own-brand range.\n\nIn 2010, the British Food Standards Agency funded a clinical study of people who claimed to experience side-effects after consuming aspartame. The double blind controlled study has been concluded and found no evidence of safety issues or side effects even amongst those volunteers who had previously claimed sensitivity. The FSA's Committee on Toxicity evaluated the results at its meeting in October 2013, and determined that \"the results presented did not indicate any need for action to protect the health of the public.\"\n\nThe European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) commenced a re-evaluation of aspartame as part of the systematic re-evaluation of all food additives authorised in the EU prior to 20 January 2009. In May 2011, EFSA was asked by the European Commission to bring forward the full re-evaluation of the safety of aspartame (E 951), which was previously planned for completion by 2020. In September 2011, the EFSA made all 600 datasets it is using in its full re-evaluation available publicly. This includes previously unpublished scientific data, \"including the 112 original studies on aspartame which were submitted to support the request for authorisation of aspartame in Europe in the early 1980s.\" On January 8, 2013, the EFSA released its draft report, which found that aspartame and its metabolites \"pose no toxicity concern for consumers at current levels of exposure. The current Acceptable Daily Intake (ADI) is considered to be safe for the general population and consumer exposure to aspartame is below this ADI.\"\n\nThe Cesare Maltoni Cancer Research Center of the European Ramazzini Foundation of Oncology and Environmental Sciences has released several studies which claim that aspartame can increase several malignancies in rodents, concluding that aspartame is a potential carcinogen at normal dietary doses. Although thirteen occupational safety and health experts signed an open letter from CSPI to the FDA expressing that the 2007 ERF study merited a reevaluation of aspartame's safety in humans, these studies have been widely criticized and discounted by the FDA and other food safety agencies.\n\nAfter reviewing the foundation's claims, the EFSA and the FDA discounted the study results and found no reason to revise their previously established acceptable daily intake levels for aspartame. Reported flaws were numerous and included, but were not limited to, the following: comparing cancer rates of older aspartame-consuming rats to younger control rats; unspecified composition of the \"Corticella\" diet and method of adding aspartame, leading to possible nutritional deficiencies; unspecified aspartame storage conditions; lack of animal randomization; overcrowding and a high incidence of possibly carcinogenic infections; and the U.S. National Toxicology Program's finding that the ERF had misdiagnosed hyperplasias as malignancies. Reviews by the FDA and EFSA were hampered by the refusal of the Ramazzini Foundation to release all data and pathology slides, but from the materials received, the FDA and EFSA found that the data did not support the researcher's published conclusions. Evaluation of this research by Health Canada and the British government's Committee on Carcinogenicity of Chemicals in Food, Consumer Products and the Environment likewise found methodological problems with the research and did not recommend any further reconsideration of the recommended intake of aspartame in their respective countries.\n\nA review of the literature concurred with these evaluations, finding many possible flaws in the study's design and conclusions. These conclusions are also contradicted by other carcinogenicity studies which found no significant danger. This review therefore concluded this research did not constitute credible evidence for the carcinogenicity of aspartame. Another review criticized the Ramazzini Foundation for relying on \"science by press conference\" with its release of results through the media before being published in a proper peer-reviewed journal, thus helping fuel the controversy and publicity about the study in the media.\n\nAnother carcinogenicity study in rodents published by this foundation in 2010 was evaluated by the EFSA and was found to have multiple significant design flaws and could not be interpreted. The EFSA therefore concluded this study did not provide enough evidence to reconsider previous evaluation of aspartame safety.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40932744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40932744", "title": "Bedlam (2013 TV series)", "text": "Bedlam (2013 TV series)\n\nBedlam is the British mental health documentary filmed at South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust (SLaM). The series offers unprecedented access to clinical services, patients and staff at the Trust. \n\nThe first episode of the four-part series Bedlam was broadcast on Thursday, 31 October 2013 at 9 pm on C4.\n\nThe first programme, Anxiety, follow patients through the 18-bed Anxiety and Disorders Residential Unit at Bethlem Royal Hospital. This national unit treats the most anxious people in the country - the top one per cent - and claims a success rate of three in four patients. Some are consumed by irrational fears they’ve caused a road accident in their sleep, harmed strangers or have intrusive thoughts.\n\nThe second programme is called Crisis. Cameras are allowed in Lambeth Hospital Triage ward for the first time. This is the Accident and Emergency of mental health - where patients are at their most unwell. This episode features Medical Director Dr Martin Baggaley who has spoken out about the pressure facing mental health services in England.\n\nThe third programme, Psychosis, films a community mental health team. South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust provides support for more than 35,000 people with mental health problems.\n\nThe final programme, Breakdown, focuses on older adults, including the inpatient ward for people over 65 with mental health problems at Maudsley Hospital.\n\nThe title ‘Bedlam’ was decided upon both by SLaM, Channel 4 and The Garden Productions. It is based on the fact that SLaM can trace its roots back to 1247 when the Priory of St Mary of Bethlehem was established in the City of London. The priory, which became a refuge for the sick and infirm, was known as ‘Bedlam’ and was the earliest form of what is now Bethlem Royal Hospital. The title has generated concern and criticism from some mental health campaigners because of what is seen as the negative, stigmatising associations with the term ‘Bedlam’. In response, the Trust set out the process and thinking which led to the name being agreed.\n\n"}
{"id": "36339227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36339227", "title": "Capital punishment in Gibraltar", "text": "Capital punishment in Gibraltar\n\nCapital punishment in Gibraltar included public execution in the nineteenth century until 1864. The last sentence of death was passed in 1952. Under British law, capital punishment was almost abolished in 1965, in line with British practice. It was entirely abolished in 2002 along with all other British Overseas Territories.\n\nDuring the 18th and 19th centuries a gallows was accessible from within the 18th century tunnels inside Willis' Gallery in the northeastern part of the Rock of Gibraltar. The nearest entrance to this part of the tunnel system is by Princess Anne's Battery. The gallows and floggings were administered in sight of the Spanish troops who manned the Spanish Lines across the isthmus (the Spanish fortifications were later dismantled).\n\nPrior to the foundation of the Alameda Gardens in 1816, its location (the Grand Parade, an assembly ground situated to the south of the town, beyond Southport Gates) was the place of public executions. During the 19th century, public military hangings were carried out at Grand Casemates Square, with the last one held in 1864.\n\nSubsequent hangings took place at the HM Prison Moorish Castle.\n\nGibraltar's last hanging for murder took place on 3 July 1931 when 31-year-old Ernest Opisso went to the gallows. He was executed for the murder of his employer in the flat above her shop where they both worked. It was the first execution in Gibraltar since 1896.\n\nTwo Spaniards from La Línea de la Concepción recruited by the German intelligence service, the Abwehr, 23-year-old Luis López Cordón Cuenca and 19-year-old José Martín Muñoz, were hanged on 11 January 1944 for offences committed during World War II. The hangings were carried out by famous British hangman Albert Pierrepoint, who had travelled undercover to Gibraltar to carry out the executions.\n\nCapital punishment was almost completely abolished on 8 November 1965, in line with British practice. However, death sentences were last passed in Gibraltar in 1952.\n\nIn 2001, Gibraltar still retained capital punishment for Treason and piracy. However, capital punishment was abolished in 2002, when the death penalty was outlawed under all circumstances in all the British Overseas Territories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19722010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19722010", "title": "Citizens Campaign for the Environment", "text": "Citizens Campaign for the Environment\n\nCitizens Campaign for the Environment (CCE) was founded in 1985 by a small group of Long Island citizens. CCE is as a not-for-profit. Offices are in Farmingdale, NY, White Plains, NY, Albany, NY, Syracuse, NY, Buffalo, NY, and New Haven, CT. CCE has 80,000 members and is a non-partisan environmental advocacy organization and is classified as a 501(c)4 non-profit. \n\nCCE advocates local, state, and federal environmental policy. CCE is best known regionally for its work on Long Island Sound and Great Lakes protection. CCE works in five main campaign areas: water protection; public health, toxics, and recycling; open space and wildlife habitat; climate change and energy policy; and legislative campaigns\n\nCCE's stated mission is \"Citizens Campaign for the Environment (CCE) works to build widespread citizen understanding and advocacy for policies and actions designed to manage and protect our natural resources and public health.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24042996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24042996", "title": "Clifford Craig Medical Research Trust", "text": "Clifford Craig Medical Research Trust\n\nThe Clifford Craig Medical Research Trust was established in 1992 by the community of Northern Tasmania to be an independent, non-profit organisation interested in discovering and sharing better treatments of disease. \n\nThe organisation is named in honour of the late Dr. Clifford Craig who served as surgeon and superintendent of the Launceston General Hospital as well as a radiologist and historian. \n\nThe founding vision in 1992 was to create a world-class medical research institute in Northern Tasmania with a strong focus on the diseases that affect the local community. The Clifford Craig Medical Research Trust was responsible for building the research centre on level 5 of the Launceston General Hospital, where its office are located. The organisation funded 82 medical research projects to date.\n\nThe first Executive Officer appointed to the Trust was Toni Maloney, followed by Phil Baker. In 2007 the Trust appointed Michael Ferguson as Chief Executive Officer. In November 2009, former Southern Cross Television marketing manager Peter Milne was appointed Chief Executive Officer to replace Michael Ferguson who resigned to stand as a candidate for the seat of Bass in the Tasmanian state election.\n\n"}
{"id": "876059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=876059", "title": "ConjuChem", "text": "ConjuChem\n\nConjuChem Biotechnologies Inc. is a medical biotechnology company located in Montreal, Canada which is credited with inventing the experimental peptide hormone CJC-1295.\n\nIt employs 45 people, 90% of whom are in research and development.\n"}
{"id": "46306007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46306007", "title": "Dave Steen (shot putter)", "text": "Dave Steen (shot putter)\n\nDavid Lorne \"Dave\" Steen, (born 2 January 1942) is a Canadian former track and field athlete who specialised in the shot put. He was a two-time gold medallist in the event at the Commonwealth Games in 1966 and 1970, breaking games records both times. He had won the bronze medal at the 1962 event. His personal record was , set in 1970.\n\nHe was a nine-time national champion in throwing events at the Canadian Track and Field Championships. Also among his honours were a shot put bronze at the 1967 Pan American Games and two bronze medals in the shot and discus at the 1969 Pacific Conference Games. He was coached by Bill Bowerman within the Oregon Ducks track and field program and was part of the winning team for the 1962 American collegiate NCAA title.\n\nA native of Burnaby, British Columbia, he became interested in athletics through the exploits of his older brother Don Steen, who became the national decathlon champion in 1955. - Oct 20, 1966 His brother later named his son David Steen, who continued the family's athletic tradition.\n\nHe had his first achievements in the shot put while at Douglas Road Elementary School in Burnaby, winning the school title at age eleven. At Burnaby South Secondary School he established himself as one of Canada's best young throwers by setting national age-group record in the shot put. Steen grew to be a tall man, at six-foot and four and a half inches, and as his physique developed he reached a weight of 235 pounds. He went on to study at the University of Oregon, where he became part of the Oregon Ducks track and field led by coach Bill Bowerman. A central team member in the throw events, Steen placed fifth at the NCAA Men's Division I Outdoor Track and Field Championships in 1962 and competed in the preliminaries of the discus throw. His contribution helped Oregon to the NCAA team title. The following year he had his best placing in NCAA competition, coming second in the shot put final.\n\nSteen won his first national title as a teenager in 1960, winning the hammer throw, which was not very developed at a national level at that point. His first national title in the shot put came at the Canadian Track and Field Championships in 1962. His winning mark of was by far the best ever performance in the competition's history at that point. This earned him his first major international call-up for the 1962 British Empire and Commonwealth Games, held in Perth, Australia. There he had a throw of , which would have won all previous titles but on this occasion was a close third behind Martyn Lucking and Mike Lindsay.\n\nIn the 1963 track and field season he achieved a Canadian record of , having previously become the first Canadian to clear the sixty foot mark. This mark ranked him seventh globally that year. He was among Canada's top prospects for the 1964 Summer Olympics, but in 1963 he criticised the attitude of officials at the Canadian Amateur Athletic Union, saying that they were not sufficiently concerned with the well-being of the nation's athletes. Suffering heavily from infectious mononucleosis, he ultimately missed the entire 1964 season, including the Olympic competition. The launch of the Canada Fitness Council, supported by the Royal Canadian Legion, marked a turnaround in his fortunes. Steen credited the organisation with improving his career by assisting with living costs and subsidising travel to international competitions.\n\nSteen returned to form in 1965 with a second career title at the Canadian Championships and a season's best of . He also won his first national title in the discus throw, doing so with . The following year he set a new shot put personal best of to win the Canadian title in a championship record. This mark ranked him eleventh in the world that season and went unbettered nationally until Bruce Pirnie's 1972 win. The 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Kingston, Jamaica saw Steen became Canada's first ever shot put gold medallist at the competition. His winning throw of was a large improvement on the Commonwealth Games record set by Lucking four years earlier. In addition to the shot put, he competed in the discus event and placed fourth.\n\nHe took a shot put and discus double at the 1967 national championships and his best throw that year was . He came close to that seasonal peak at the 1967 Pan American Games, which were held on home turf in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. He was the bronze medallist behind two Americans who were world leaders at that point: Randy Matson, who was Olympic champion the year after, and Neal Steinhauer, the top ranked putter in 1969. Steen's 1967 medal was Canada's first in the Pan American men's shot put (his compatriot Nancy McCredie won the women shot that year).\n\nSteen was Canadian champion in the shot put in both 1968 and 1969, solidifying an unbeaten run from 1965. The latter title was his last at national level. He was selected for the Canadian team for the inaugural 1969 Pacific Conference Games and a performance of in the shot put and in the discus brought him two bronze medals. His teammate George Puce was the discus winner at the event in Tokyo.\n\nHe returned to defend his shot put title at the 1970 British Commonwealth Games. The 28-year-old successfully topped the podium again, winning the gold medal with a new games record (and lifetime best) of . He was the first man to defend that title since Harry Hart did so in 1934. He again competed in the discus throw as well, and ranked tenth with a mark of . This was the last major competition of his career. He was inducted into the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame in 1977.\n\nAfter his retirement from competition he began coaching young athletes in the 1970s. This included novelist Lawrence Hill—a keen teenage runner—whom Steen advised to focus on writing after a poor outcome of a fitness test. Steen himself wrote several books, starting with the \"Canadian Pilot's Fitness Manual\" in 1979 before moving into youth sport with \"Aerobic fun for kids\" in 1982 and \"Exercise is fun\" a decade later. He became a print sports journalist, reporting for the \"Toronto Star\" and \"Toronto Mirror\". He married Margaret Daly, also a journalist, in Chicago in late 1963.\n\n"}
{"id": "1418234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1418234", "title": "Duplessis Orphans", "text": "Duplessis Orphans\n\nThe Duplessis Orphans () were children victimized in a mid-20th century scheme in which approximately 20,000 orphaned children were falsely certified as mentally ill by the government of the province of Quebec, Canada, and confined to psychiatric institutions. The Catholic Church has denied the allegations, and disputes the claims of those seeking financial recompense.\n\nThe 1940s and 1950s were considered a period of widespread poverty, few social services, and Catholic predominance in Quebec. The Quiet Revolution of the 1960s had not yet occurred, so the Roman Catholic Church still held major social power.\n\nMaurice Duplessis, the premier of Quebec, was a strict Catholic. The Church in Canada, as elsewhere in the world, was inclined to be a caretaker of the poor, alcoholics, unwed mothers, and orphans. He put the schools, orphanages, and hospitals in the hands of religious orders, noting he \"trusted them completely\". He signed an order-in-council, changing orphanages into hospitals in order to provide them with federal subsidies.\n\nMany children were admitted to orphanages because they were abandoned by their parents, not because they were orphans, but often because their parents were unmarried. Children born out of wedlock suffered from poor care.\n\nThe Quebec government received subsidies from the federal government for building hospitals, but hardly anything for having orphanages. Government contributions were only $1.25 a day for orphans, but $2.75 a day for psychiatric patients, providing a strong financial incentive for reclassification.\n\nThe \"Loi sur les Asiles d'aliénés\" (Lunatic Asylum Act) of 1909 governed mental institution admissions until 1950. The law stated the insane could be committed for three reasons: to care for them, to help them, or as a measure to maintain social order in public and private life. However, the act did not define what a disruption of social order was, leaving the decision to admit patients up to the psychiatrists.\n\nThe doctors falsely diagnosed the children with various mental illnesses while ignoring their actual mental state. Children in Quebec orphanages were therefore declared \"mentally deficient\". Schooling stopped, and the orphans became inmates in a mental institution where they were sexually, physically, and mentally abused by lay monitors and nuns. Children who complained about the conditions were sent to local reform schools.\n\nSeven religious orders participated: the Sisters of Providence, the Sisters of Mercy, the Gray Nuns of Montreal, the Sisters of Charity of Quebec, the Little Franciscans of Mary, the Brothers of Notre-Dame-de-la-Misericorde, and the Brothers of Charity.\n\nA commission in the early 1960s investigating mental institutions after Duplessis' death revealed one-third of the 22,000 patients did not belong.\n\nThe Bédard report of 1962 put an end to the outdated concept of an \"asylum,\" while many of the orphans reached adulthood and could leave the facility.\n\nYears later, long after these institutions were closed, the children who had survived them and become adults began to speak out about the harsh treatment and sexual abuse they endured at the hands of some members of institutions and medical personnel.\n\nIn a psychiatric study completed by one of the involved hospitals, middle-aged Duplessis Orphans reported more physical and mental impairments than the control group. In addition, the orphans were less likely to be married or to have a healthy social life. 80% reported they had suffered a traumatic experience between the ages of 7 to 18. Over 50% said they had undergone physical, mental, or sexual abuse. About 78% reported difficulty functioning socially or emotionally in their adult life.\n\nBy the 1990s, there remained about 3,000 survivors and a large group formed to start a campaign. They called themselves the \"Duplessis Orphans\" after Maurice Duplessis, the Premier of Quebec during that time whose government was responsible for their plight. In addition to government and Church responsibility, the College of Physicians of Quebec came under fire after some of the orphans found copies of their medical records that had been falsified. Labelled as mentally deficient, many of these children were subjected to electroshock, a variety of drug testing and used in other medical experiments. Released upon reaching the legal age of maturity, they were uneducated and ill-equipped to cope with life as adults.\n\nAt first, the government of Quebec stonewalled them, but after they started gaining widespread publicity in March 1999, the \"Parti Québécois\" government made a token offer of approximately $15,000 as full compensation to each of the victims. The offer was rejected and the government was harshly criticized by the public and even the provincial Ombudsman, Daniel Jacoby, came out saying that the government's handling of the situation had trivialized the abuse the victims alleged. Nevertheless, the government still refused to hold an inquiry. In 2001, the claimants received an increased offer from the Quebec government for a flat payment of $10,000 per person, plus an additional $1,000 for each year of wrongful confinement to a mental institution. The offer amounted to approximately $15,000 per orphan; however, it was limited to each of the surviving 1,100 orphans the government had labeled as mentally deficient, but did not include any compensation for victims of sexual or other abuse.\n\nThe offer was accepted by those eligible while the remainder received nothing. The vote on the offer was taken by a show of hands in a closed-door session overseen by Committee chief, the author Bruno Roy, one of very few orphans who enjoyed a successful career following the traumatic experience of youth detention. The results of the vote were later bitterly contested by a group which believed the victims should have received more. Many believe that justice was not done and criminal wrongdoing was allowed to go unpunished.\n\nThe Quebec Government declined to prosecute the criminal cases.\nOpponents of the judgment led by Rod Vienneau of Joliette, Quebec, pointed out that three of the bureaucrats running the compensation program were being paid over $1,000 per day of work, whereas the orphans themselves received the same amount for an entire year of their childhood confined illegally to insane asylums.\n\nThe Catholic Church publicly announced that they played no responsibility in the orphans' situation and refused to apologize. The representative for the seven orders, Sister Gisele Fortier, called the allegations \"upsetting ... but very much sensationalized, and needs to be put into context.\" Cardinal Jean-Claude Turcotte, archbishop of Montreal, asserted that the religious orders \"deserve our respect and have a right to their good name.\" This offended many of the Duplessis Orphans. In 2006, one of the Orphans, Martin Lécuyer, stated \"it's important for me, that the church, the priests, that they recognize they were responsible for the sexual abuse, and the aggression. It's not for the government to set that peace ... It's an insult, and it's the biggest proof that the government is an accomplice of the church.\"\n\nIn 1999, Researchers Léo-Paul Lauzon and Martin Poirier issued a report arguing that the Quebec government and the Roman Catholic Church made substantial profits by falsely certifying thousands of Quebec orphans as mentally ill during the 1940s and 1950s. The authors made a conservative estimate that religious groups received $70 million in subsidies (measured in 1999 dollars) by claiming the children as \"mentally deficient,\" while the government saved $37 million simply by having one of its orphanages redesignated from an educational institution to a psychiatric hospital. A representative of a religious order involved with the orphanages accused the authors of making \"false assertions.\"\n\nIn 2004, members of the \"Duplessis Orphans\" asked the Quebec government to unearth an abandoned cemetery in the east end of Montreal which they believed held the remains of orphans who may have been the subject of medical experiments. According to testimony by individuals who were at the Cité de St-Jean-de-Dieu insane asylum, the orphans were routinely experimented upon and many died. The group wants the government to exhume the bodies so that autopsies may be performed.\nOn December 13, 2015, a new interview with one of the survivors was conducted on RT.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2541868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2541868", "title": "Extracellular digestion", "text": "Extracellular digestion\n\nExtracellular digestion is a process in which saprobionts feed by secreting enzymes through the cell membrane onto the food. The enzymes catalyze the digestion of the food into molecules small enough to be taken up by passive diffusion, transport, or phagocytosis. Since digestion occurs outside the cell, it is said to be extracellular. It takes place either in the lumen of the digestive system, in a gastric cavity or other digestive organ, or completely outside the body.\n\nThe prefix \"extra\" means \"outside\", and indicates that extracellular digestion must occur outside the cell. During extracellular digestion, food is broken down outside the cell either mechanically or with acid by special molecules called enzymes. Then the newly broken down nutrients can be absorbed by the cells nearby. Humans use extracellular digestion when they eat. Their teeth grind the food, enzymes and acid in the stomach liquefy it, and additional enzymes in the small intestine break the food down into parts their cells can use.\n\nAlthough fungi do not have a digestive tract like humans, they still use extracellular digestion. Fungi and other decomposers utilize nutrients derived from breaking down the substrate they grow on. Another example of extracellular digestion being used is in the hydra, or sea anemone. A large cavity, called the gastrovascular cavity, fills the center of the animal, with one opening for both food and waste. When unsuspecting prey swim into the opening, stinging cells paralyze the prey. The hydra uses its tentacles to push the prey further into the cavity, where enzymes are secreted to break down the food. Once the food is broken down extracellularly into nutrients, the cells of the hydra can absorb it for energy.\n\nExtracellular digestion is a form of digestion found in all saprobiontic annelids, crustaceans, arthropods, lichens and chordates, including vertebrates.\n\nFungi are heterotrophic organisms. Heterotrophic nutrition means that fungi utilize extracellular sources of organic energy, organic material or organic matter, for their maintenance, growth and reproduction. Energy is derived from the breakdown of the chemical bond between carbon and either carbon or other components of compounds such as a phosphate ion. The extracellular sources of energy may be simple sugars, polypeptides or more complex carbohydrate.\n\nFungi can only absorb small molecules through their walls. For fungi to gain their energy needs, they find and absorb organic molecules appropriate to their needs, either immediately or following some form of enzyme diminution outside the thallus. The small molecules are then absorbed, used directly or reconstituted (transformed) into organic molecules within the cell.\n\nWhen a skeletonized leaf is seen in the litter, it is because recalcitrant materials remain and digestion is continuing. The fungi that utilize a variety of energy sources usually absorb the simplest compounds first, then the more complex. For instance, the formation of cellulose is repressed by high concentrations of glucose in the cytoplasm. On depletion of primary sources of glucose, enzymes to degrade more complex molecules such as cellulose and starch, are then released. Thus soluble sugars and amino acids are removed first from a leaf released from a tree. Starch is then broken down and absorbed. Subsequently, pectin and cellulose are digested. Finally, waxes are degraded and lignin oxidized. The staggering of energy acquisition results in the efficient utilization of available energy.\n\nThe regulation of nutrient acquisition appears to be controlled by general phenomena. Only a small group of enzymes, mostly hydrolases, can be detected in the culture filtrate of well-fed fungi. This suggests that specific inducers control the manufacture and release of enzymes for degradation. The most common complex carbohydrate available in the environment is cellulose. In the absence of glucose, detection of cellulose, for instance, induces the expression of celluloses. As a consequence, fungi specifically target the breakdown of the cellulose in their environment, and do not waste energy on the unnecessary formation of enzymes for degradation of molecules that may not be present. Fungi have an efficient process to gain energy.\n\nBecause of the huge range of potential food sources, fungi have evolved enzymes suitable for the environments in which they are usually found. The range of enzymes, though wide in many species, is not sufficient for survival in all environments. Fungi require other competitive attributes to ensure continued survival.\n\nThe opposite is also true. Some fungi have highly specific metabolic capabilities which enable occupation of specific habitats, utilizing molecules which are unavailable to other fungi. Further, utilization of a common and abundant substrate has led many fungi to evolve a range of highly specific degradative enzymes. Among the fungi are species that are generalist in their nutrient requirements, some that have specific nutrient requirements, and many that are in between.\n\nEnzymes are manufactured close to the hyphal tip. Some are packaged in vesicles associated with the Golgi and then delivered to the hyphal tip. The contents are released at the tip. Some enzymes are actively excreted through the plasma membrane, where they diffuse through or act in the cell wall. Note that the enzymes released from the hyphal tip require an aqueous environment for release and subsequent degradative activity.\n\nThe molecules absorbed through the plasma membrane tend to be smaller than 5,000 Da, so only simple sugars, amino acids, fatty acids and other small molecules can be taken up following digestion. The molecules are taken up in solution. In some cases, the molecules are processed by enzymes located within the cell wall. For instance, sucrose inverters have been localized in walls of yeasts. Glucose appears to be the sugar preferred by most fungi. Uptake of other sugars is repressed when glucose is available. Similarly, ammonium, glutamine and asparagine regulate the uptake of nitrogen compounds, and cysteine of sulphur compounds.\n\nJoint intracellular and extracellular digestion In hydra and other cnidarians, the food is caught by the tentacles and ingested through the mouth into the single large digestive cavity, the gastrovascular cavity. Enzymes are secreted from the cells bordering this cavity and poured on the food for extracellular digestion. Small particles of the partially digested food are engulfed into the vacuoles of the digestive cells for intracellular digestion. Any undigested and un-absorbed food is finally thrown out of the mouth.\n\nSingle-celled organisms as well as sponges digest their food intracellularly. Other multi-cellular organisms digest their food extracellularly, within a digestive cavity. In this case the digestive enzymes are released into a cavity that is continuous with the animal's external environment. In cnidarians and in flatworms such as planarians, the digestive cavity, called a gastrovascular cavity, has only one opening that serves as both mouth and anus. There is no specialization within this type of digestive system because every cell is exposed to all stages of food digestion.\n\nSpecializing occurs when the digestive tract or alimentary canal has a separate mouth and anus so that transport of food is one-way. The most primitive digestive tract is seen in nematodes (phylum Nematode), where it is simply a tubular gut lined by an epithelial membrane. Earthworms (phylum Annelids) have a digestive tract specialized in different regions for the ingestion, storage, fragmentation, digestion and absorption of food. All more complex animal groups, including all vertebrates, show similar specializations. \n\nThe ingested food may be stored in a specialized region of the digestive tract or subjected to physical fragmentation. This fragmentation may occur through the chewing action of teeth (in the mouth of many vertebrates) or the grinding action of pebbles (in the gizzard of earthworms and birds).\nChemical digestion then occurs, breaking down the larger food molecules of polysaccharides and disaccharides, fats, and proteins into their smallest sub-units.\n\nChemical digestion involves hydrolysis reactions that liberate the sub unit molecules—primarily monosaccharides, amino acids and fatty acids—from the food. These products of chemical digestion pass through the epithelial lining of the gut into the blood, in a process known as absorption. Any molecules in the food that are not absorbed cannot be used by the animal. These waste products are excreted, or defecated from the anus.\n\nThe echiuran gut is long and highly convoluted, and there is no gut in pogonophoran adults. Among other annelids, the gut is linear and unsegmented, with a mouth opening on the peristomium and an anus opening at the posterior end of the animal (pygidium). Food is moved through the gut by cilia and/or by muscular contractions. Digestion is primarily extracellular, although some species show an intracellular component as well.\n\nThe arthropod digestive system is divisible into three areas: the fore gut, mid gut, and hind gut. All free-living species exhibit a distinct and separate mouth and anus, and in all species, food must be moved through the digestive tract by muscular activity rather than cilia activity since the lumen of the fore gut and hind gut is lined with cuticle. Digestion is generally extracellular. Nutrients are distributed to the tissues through the hemal system.\n\nMost molluscs have a complete digestive system with a separate mouth and anus. The mouth leads into a short esophagus which leads to a stomach. Associated with the stomach are one or more digestive glands or digestive caeca. Digestive enzymes are secreted into the lumen of these glands. Additional extracellular digestion takes place in the stomach. In cephalopods, digestion is entirely extracellular. In the most other mollusks, the terminal stages of digestion are completed intracellularly, within the tissue of the digestive glands. The absorbed nutrients enter the circulatory system for distribution throughout the body or are stored in the digestive glands for later use. Undigested waste pass through an intestine and out through the anus. Other aspects of food collection and processing have already been discussed where appropriate for each group.\n\nThe initial components of the gastrointestinal tract are the mouth and the pharynx, which is the common passage of the oral and nasal cavities. The pharynx leads to the esophagus, a muscular tube that delivers food to the stomach, where some preliminary digestion occurs; here, the digestion is extracellular.\n\nFrom the stomach, food passes to the small intestine, where a battery of digestive enzymes continue the digestive process. The products of digestion are absorbed across the wall of the intestine into the bloodstream. What remains is emptied into the large intestine, where some of the remaining water and minerals are absorbed; here the digestion is intracellular.\n\n"}
{"id": "2862625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2862625", "title": "Fouling", "text": "Fouling\n\nFouling is the accumulation of unwanted material on solid surfaces to the detriment of function. The fouling materials can consist of either living organisms (biofouling) or a non-living substance (inorganic and/or organic). Fouling is usually distinguished from other surface-growth phenomena, in that it occurs on a surface of a component, system or plant performing a defined and useful function, and that the fouling process impedes or interferes with this function.\n\nOther terms used in the literature to describe fouling include: deposit formation, encrustation, crudding, deposition, scaling, scale formation, slagging, and sludge formation. The last six terms have a more narrow meaning than fouling within the scope of the fouling science and technology, and they also have meanings outside of this scope; therefore, they should be used with caution.\n\nFouling phenomena are common and diverse, ranging from fouling of ship hulls, natural surfaces in the marine environment (marine fouling), fouling of heat-transfer components through ingredients contained in the cooling water or gases, and even the development of plaque or calculus on teeth, or deposits on solar panels on Mars, among other examples.\n\nThis article is primarily devoted to the fouling of industrial heat exchangers, although the same theory is generally applicable to other varieties of fouling. In the cooling technology and other technical fields, a distinction is made between macro fouling and micro fouling. Of the three, micro fouling is the one which is usually more difficult to prevent and therefore less important.\n\nFollowing are examples of components that may be subject to fouling and the corresponding effects of fouling:\n\n\nMacro fouling is caused by coarse matter of either biological or inorganic origin, for example industrially produced refuse. Such matter enters into the cooling water circuit through the cooling water pumps from sources like the open sea, rivers or lakes. In closed circuits, like cooling towers, the ingress of macro fouling into the cooling tower basin is possible through open canals or by the wind. Sometimes, parts of the cooling tower internals detach themselves and are carried into the cooling water circuit. Such substances can foul the surfaces of heat exchangers and may cause deterioration of the relevant heat transfer coefficient. They may also create flow blockages, redistribute the flow inside the components, or cause fretting damage.\n\nAs to micro fouling, distinctions are made between:\n\nScaling or precipitation fouling involves crystallization of solid salts, oxides and hydroxides from solutions. These are most often water solutions, but non-aqueous precipitation fouling is also known. Precipitation fouling is a very common problem in boilers and heat exchangers operating with hard water and often results in limescale.\n\nThrough changes in temperature, or solvent evaporation or degasification, the concentration of salts may exceed the saturation, leading to a precipitation of solids (usually crystals).\n\nAs an example, the equilibrium between the readily soluble calcium bicarbonate - always prevailing in natural water - and the poorly soluble calcium carbonate, the following chemical equation may be written:\n\n"}
{"id": "38346167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38346167", "title": "Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance", "text": "Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance\n\nGavi, the Vaccine Alliance (Gavi for short; previously the GAVI Alliance, and before that the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization) is a public–private global health partnership committed to increasing access to immunisation in poor countries.\n\nGavi brings together developing country and donor governments, the World Health Organization, UNICEF, the World Bank, the vaccine industry in both industrialised and developing countries, research and technical agencies, civil society, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and other private philanthropists.\n\nGavi was created in 2000 as a successor to the Children's Vaccine Initiative, which had been launched in 1990. \n\nDr. Seth Berkley has been the CEO of GAVI since 2011.\n\nThe Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has donated $1.5 billion to the alliance as of January 2013.\n\nIn August 2014, Gavi changed its name from \"GAVI Alliance\" and introduced a new logo. Both changes were revealed in August; it had by then acquired the gavi.org domain name and changed its primary domain from gavialliance.org to gavi.org.\n\n"}
{"id": "19728383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19728383", "title": "Glass delusion", "text": "Glass delusion\n\nThe glass delusion is an external manifestation of a psychiatric disorder recorded in Europe mainly in the late Middle Ages and early modern period (fifteenth to seventeenth centuries). People feared that they were made of glass \"and therefore likely to shatter into pieces\". One famous early sufferer was King Charles VI of France who refused to allow people to touch him, and wore reinforced clothing to protect himself from accidental \"shattering\".\n\nConcentration of the glass delusion among the wealthy and educated classes allowed modern scholars to associate it with a wider and better described disorder of scholar's melancholy.\n\nRobert Burton's \"The Anatomy of Melancholy\" (1621) touches on the subject in the commentary as one of many related manifestations of the same anxiety: \"Fear of devils, death, that they shall be so sick, of some such or such disease, ready to tremble at every object, they shall die themselves forthwith, or that some of their dear friends or near allies are certainly dead; imminent danger, loss, disgrace still torment others; that they are all glass, and therefore will suffer no man to come near them; that they are all cork, as light as feathers; others as heavy as lead; some are afraid their heads will fall off their shoulders, that they have frogs in their bellies, Etc.\"\n\nMiguel de Cervantes based one of his short \"Exemplary Novels\", \"The Glass Graduate\" (, 1613), on the delusion of the title subject, an aspiring young lawyer. Thomas Rodaja fell into a grave depression after being bedridden for six months subsequent to being poisoned with a purportedly aphrodisiac potion. He claimed that, being of glass, his perceptions are clearer than those of men of flesh and demonstrated by offering witty comments. After two years of illness, Rodaja was cured by a monk; no details of the cure are provided except that the monk was allegedly a miracle-maker.\n\nDutch poet Constantijn Huygens wrote a \"Costly Folly\" (1622) centered on a subject who \"fears everything that moves in his vicinity... the chair will be the death for him, he trembles at the bed, fearful that one will break his bum, the other smash his head\".\n\nFrench philosopher René Descartes wrote \"Meditations on First Philosophy\" (1641), using the glass delusion as an example of an insane person whose perceived knowledge of the world differs from the majority.\n\nIn modern times, the glass delusion has not completely disappeared. There are still isolated cases today. \"Surveys of modern psychiatric institutions have only revealed two specific (uncorroborated) cases of the glass delusion. Foulché-Delbosc reports finding one Glass Man in a Paris asylum, and a woman who thought she was a potsherd was recorded at an asylum in Merenberg.\" Andy Lameijn, a psychiatrist from the Netherlands, reports that he has a male patient suffering from the delusion in Leiden.\n\nThe neurotic behavior of the nineteenth-century Russian composer Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky seems reminiscent of the glass delusion, centering as it did around his difficulties caused by his belief that his head would fall off while conducting if he did not hold his chin. While the legend may be exaggerated, it seems to have some basis in fact:\n\n"}
{"id": "2431085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2431085", "title": "Glossitis", "text": "Glossitis\n\nGlossitis can mean soreness of the tongue, or more usually inflammation with depapillation of the dorsal surface of the tongue (loss of the lingual papillae), leaving a smooth and erythematous (reddened) surface, (sometimes specifically termed atrophic glossitis). In a wider sense, glossitis can mean inflammation of the tongue generally. Glossitis is often caused by nutritional deficiencies and may be painless or cause discomfort. Glossitis usually responds well to treatment if the cause is identified and corrected. Tongue soreness caused by glossitis is differentiated from burning mouth syndrome, where there is no identifiable change in the appearance of the tongue, and there are no identifiable causes.\n\nDepending upon what exact meaning of the word glossitis is implied, signs and symptoms might include:\n\n\nDepending upon the underlying cause, there may be additional signs and symptoms such as pallor, oral ulceration and angular cheilitis.\n\nIron-deficiency anemia is mainly caused by blood loss, such as may occur during menses or gastrointestinal hemorrhage. This often results in a depapilled, atrophic glossitis, giving the tongue a bald and shiny appearance, along with pallor (paleness) of the lips and other mucous membranes a tendency towards recurrent oral ulceration, and cheilosis (swelling of the lips). The appearance of the tongue in iron deficiency anemia has been described as diffuse or patchy atrophy with tenderness or burning. One cause of iron deficiency anemia is sideropenic dysphagia (Plummer–Vinson or Paterson–Brown–Kelly syndrome) which is also characterized by esophageal webbing and dysphagia.\n\nPernicious anemia is usually caused by autoimmune destruction of gastric parietal cells. Parietal cells secrete intrinsic factor which is required for the absorption of vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 deficiency results in megaloblastic anemia and may present as glossitis. The appearance of the tongue in vitamin B12 deficiency is described as \"beefy\"\nor \"fiery red and sore\". There may be linear or patchy red lesions.\n\nVitamin B1 deficiency (thiamin deficiency) can cause glossitis. Vitamin B2 deficiency (ariboflavinosis) can cause glossitis, along with angular cheilitis, cheilosis, peripheral neuropathy and other signs and symptoms. The glossitis in vitamin B2 deficiency is described as magenta. Vitamin B3 deficiency (pellagra) can cause glossitis. Vitamin B6 deficiency (pyridoxine deficiency) can cause glossitis, along with angular cheilitis, cheilosis, peripheral neuropathy and seborrheic dermatitis. Folate deficiency (vitamin B9 deficiency) can cause glossitis, along with macrocytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, diarrhea, fatigue and possibly neurological signs. Apart from pernicious anemia discussed above, any other cause of vitamin B12 deficiency can cause glossitis, which tends to be painful, smooth and shiny.\n\nBacterial, viral or fungal infections can cause glossitis. \"Candida\" species are involved in median rhomboid glossitis.\n\nSyphilis is now relatively rare, but the tertiary stage can cause diffuse glossitis and atrophy of lingual papillae, termed \"syphilitic glossitis\", \"luetic glossitis\" or \"atrophic glossitis of tertiary syphilis\". It is caused by Treponema pallidum and is a sexually transmitted infection.\n\nMany conditions can cause glossitis via malnutrition or malabsorption, which creates the nutritional deficiencies described above, although other mechanisms may be involved in some of those conditions listed.\n\nA painful tongue may be an indication of an underlying serious medical condition and nearly always merits assessment by a physician or dental surgeon.\n\nGlossitis could be classified as a group of tongue diseases or gastrointestinal diseases. It may be primary, where there is no underlying cause, or secondary where it is a sign or symptom of another condition. It can be acute or chronic. Generally speaking, there are several clinical patterns of glossitis, some more common than others.\n\nAtrophic glossitis, also known as bald tongue, smooth tongue, Hunter glossitis, Moeller glossitis, or Möller-Hunter glossitis, is a condition characterized by a smooth glossy tongue that is often tender/painful, caused by complete atrophy of the lingual papillae (depapillation). The dorsal tongue surface may be affected totally, or in patches, and may be associated with a burning sensation, pain and/or erythema. Atrophic glossitis is a non-specific finding, and has a great many causes, usually related to iron-deficiency anemia, pernicious anemia, B vitamin complex deficiencies, unrecognized and untreated celiac disease (which often presents without gastrointestinal symptoms), or other factors such as xerostomia (dry mouth). Although the terms Möller and Hunter glossitis were originally used to refer to specifically the glossitis that occurs in vitamin B12 deficiency secondary to pernicious anemia, they are now used as synonyms for atrophic glossitis generally. In this article, the term glossitis, unless otherwise specified, refers to atrophic glossitis.\n\nCandidiasis may be a concurrent finding or an alternative cause of erythema, burning, and atrophy.\n\nThis condition is characterized by a persistent erythematous, rhomboidal depapillated lesion in the central area of the dorsum of the tongue, just in front of the circumvallate papillae. Median rhomboid glossitis is a type of oral candidiasis, and rarely causes any symptoms. It is treated with antifungal medication. Predisposing factors include use of corticosteroid sprays or inhalers or immunosuppression.\n\nGeographic tongue, also termed benign migratory glossitis, is a common condition which usually affects the dorsal surface of the tongue. It is characterized by patches of depapillation and erythema bordered by a whitish peripheral zone. These patches give the tongue the appearance of a map, hence the name. Unlike glossitis due to nutritional deficiencies and anemia, the lesions of geographic tongue move around the tongue over time. This is because in geographic tongue, new areas of the tongue become involved with the condition whilst previously affected areas heal, giving the appearance of a moving lesion. The cause is unknown, and there is no curative treatment. Rarely are there any symptoms associated with the lesions, but occasionally a burning sensation may be present, which is exacerbated by eating hot, spicy or acidic foodstuffs. Some consider geographic tongue to be an early stage of fissured tongue, since the two conditions often occur in combination.\n\nGeometric glossitis, also termed herpetic geometric glossitis, is a term used by some to refer to a chronic lesion associated with herpes simplex virus (HSV) type I infection, in which there is a deep fissure in the midline of the tongue, which gives off multiple branches. The lesion is usually very painful, and there may be erosions present in the depths of the fissures. Similar fissured lesions which are not associated with HSV, as may occur in fissured tongue, do not tend to be painful. The name comes from the geometric pattern of the fissures which are longitudinal, crossed or branched. It is described as occurring in immunocompromized persons, e.g. who have leukemia. However, the association between herpes simplex and geometric glossitis is disputed by some due to a lack of gold standard techniques for diagnosis of intraoral herpetic lesions, and the high prevalence of asymptomatic viral shedding in immunocompromized individuals. Treatment is with systemic aciclovir.\n\nStrawberry tongue (also called raspberry tongue), refers to glossitis which manifests with hyperplastic (enlarged) fungiform papillae, giving the appearance of a strawberry. White strawberry tongue is where there is a white coating on the tongue through which the hyperplastic fungiform papillae protrude. Red strawberry tongue is where the white coating is lost and a dark red, erythematous surface is revealed, interspaced with the hyperplastic fungiform papillae. White strawberry tongue is seen in early scarlet fever (a systemic infection of group A β- hemolytic streptococci), and red strawberry tongue occurs later, after 4–5 days. Strawberry tongue is also seen in Kawasaki disease (a vasculitic disorder primarily occurring in children under 5), and toxic shock syndrome. It may mimic other types of glossitis or Vitamin B12 deficiency.\n\nGood oral hygiene (thorough tooth brushing and flossing and regular professional cleaning and examination) may be helpful to prevent these disorders. Drinking plenty of water and the production of enough saliva, aid in the reduction of bacterial growth. Minimizing irritants or injury in the mouth when possible can aid in the prevention of glossitis. Avoiding excessive use of any food or substance that irritates the mouth or tongue may also help.\n\nThe goal of treatment is to reduce inflammation. Treatment usually does not require hospitalization unless tongue swelling is severe. Good oral hygiene is necessary, including thorough tooth brushing at least twice a day, and flossing at least daily. Corticosteroids such as prednisone may be given to reduce the inflammation of glossitis. For mild cases, topical applications (such as a prednisone mouth rinse that is not swallowed) may be recommended to avoid the side effects of swallowed or injected corticosteroids. Antibiotics, antifungal medications, or other antimicrobials may be prescribed if the cause of glossitis is an infection. Anemia and nutritional deficiencies (such as a deficiency in niacin, riboflavin, iron, or Vitamin E) must be treated, often by dietary changes or other supplements. Avoid irritants (such as hot or spicy foods, alcohol, and tobacco) to minimize the discomfort. \nIn some cases, tongue swelling may threaten the airway, a medical emergency that needs immediate attention.\n\nOne review reported overall prevalence ranges of 0.1–14.3% for geographic tongue, 1.3–9.0% for \"atrophy tongue\" (atrophic glossitis), and 0.0–3.35% for median rhomboid glossitis.\n"}
{"id": "42954175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42954175", "title": "Gota de Leche", "text": "Gota de Leche\n\nGota de Leche (lit. A Drop of Milk) is a foundation started by Trinidad Rizal (sister of Philippine National Hero, Dr. José Rizal) and Concepción Felix on 1906 that primarily aims to provide nutritional and medical needs of indigent Filipino mothers and their children. Founded by La Protección de la Infancia Inc., the foundation continues to deliver daily milk rations to Filipino infants\n\nIts headquarters, the Gota de Leche building located at 859 S. Loyota St., Sampaloc, Manila, Philippines, designed by architects Juan Arellano and Arcadio Arellano (founding father of Philippine architecture), was awarded Honourable Mention by the UNESCO Asia Pacific Heritage Awards for Cultural Heritage Conservation in 2003. This opened further support from the National Commission on Culture and the Arts.\n\nThe Gota de Leche Building was declared by the National Museum of the Philippines as an Important Cultural Property in August 2014.\n\n\"Beriberi\", a sickness caused by a nutritional deficit in Vitamin B1 or Thiamine, was discovered among Filipino women after the Philippine–American War in 1902. Hundreds of infants died before ever reaching 3 months old and it was found that the milk coming from affected mothers were causing these deaths. This distressing condition moved a group of women to address the situation. And so in 1905, Asosación Feminista Filipina was born. It was led by Trinidad Rizal and Concepcion Felix, together with other educated women of the time.\n\nGota de Leche was established the year after, in 1906, as station that manages the daily distribution of pasteurized cow’s milk to Filipino infants. They also provide nutrition education programs to Filipino mothers.\n\nThis project was recognized as heroic and in order for it to further succeed, the founders needed to collaborate with other professionals who were willing to lend a helping hand to the cause. The collaboration subsequently led to the formation of La Protección de la Infacia Inc., the Philippines’ first independent charity organization constituted by doctors and business leaders among others.\n\nLa Protección de la Infancia Inc. opened Gota de Leche, the brainchild of Dr. Calderon, who was inspired after witnessing the noble act of the organization.\n\nInitially headquartered on \"Calle San Pedro\" (now Evangelista Street) in Santa Cruz near Plaza Miranda, the society moved to its present location in Sampaloc upon the completion of the Gota de Leche Building in 1917.\n\nGota de Leche continues its charitable activities. It still provides nutritional and medical assistance to qualified Filipino mothers and children while closely monitoring their improvement. This landmark building also houses the first national center for women’s rights that provides counselling services. Other services include dental assistance, educating families on common illnesses, and playing educational games with the children.\n\nGota de Leche has also started their Brown Rice program, for impoverished families ensuring access to complementary food rations for both mother and child. Volunteers come and provide information on diet and keeping healthy to their parents.\n\nIn the wake of the recent disaster caused by Typhoon Yolanda, the institution has also opened its doors, literally, to those displaced by the typhoon.\n\nThe careful restoration of Gota de Leche established the importance of heritage structures and the value of historical buildings as an alternative to demolition.\n\n"}
{"id": "1252139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252139", "title": "Gourmand", "text": "Gourmand\n\nA gourmand is a person who takes great pleasure and interest in consuming good food and drink. A gourmand has also been defined as a person who is \"a glutton for food and drink\", a person who eats and drinks excessively.\n\nThe word has different connotations from the similar word gourmet, which emphasises an individual with a \"refined\" discerning palate, but in practice the two terms are closely linked, as both imply the enjoyment of good food.\n\nAn alternative and older usage of the word is to describe a person given to excess in the consumption of food and drink, as a glutton or a trencherman.\n\nAnother alternative use has gained popularity among parfumes and fragrance designers. In this realm, gourmand is a category of scents related to foods, such as cocoa, apple, or plum. \nRegarding the latter usage of the term, there is a parallel concern among the French that their word for the appreciation of gourmet cuisine (gourmandise) is historically included in the French Catholic list of the Seven Deadly Sins. With the evolution in the meaning of gourmand (and gourmandise) away from gluttony, towards the appreciation of good food, French culinary proponents are advocating that the Catholic Church update said list to refer to \"gloutonnerie\" rather than \"gourmandise.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16539977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16539977", "title": "Health in Indonesia", "text": "Health in Indonesia\n\nHealth in Indonesia is affected by air quality, disease, poverty and smoking.\n\n29% of the population of Indonesia are under 15 years old, and only 5% are over 65. Life expectancy at birth is 70.8 years. It has been suggested that over a third of the children under 5 have stunted growth. More than 28 million live below the poverty line of US$17 a month and about half the population have incomes not much above it. The rate of smoking is the highest in the world - 76% and about 400,000 die each year from smoking related illnesses.\n\nSource: United Nations\n\nUnsafe drinking water is a major cause of diarrhoea, which is a major killer of young children in Indonesia. According to UNICEF diarrhoea caused by untreated drinking water contributed to the death of 31% of children between the age of 1 month to a year, and 25% of children between a year to 4 years old.\n\nHIV/AIDS has posed a major public health threat since the early 1990s. In 2003 Indonesia ranked third among ASEAN nations in Southeast Asia, after Myanmar and Thailand, with a 0.1 percent adult prevalence rate, 130,000 HIV/AIDS cases, and 2,400 deaths. In Jakarta it is estimated that 17 percent of prostitutes have contracted HIV/AIDS; in some parts of Papua, it is thought that the rate of infection among village women who are not prostitutes may be as high as 26 percent.\n\nThree other health hazards facing Indonesia in 2004 were dengue fever, dengue haemorrhagic fever (DHF) and avian influenza. All 30 provincial-level units were affected by dengue fever and DHF, according to the WHO. The outbreak of highly pathogenic avian influenza (A/H5N1) in chickens and ducks in Indonesia was said to pose a significant threat to human health.\n\nBy 2010, there were three malaria regions in Indonesia: Nusa Tenggara Barat with 20 cases per 1,000 citizens, Nusa Tenggara Timur with 20-50, and Maluku and Papua with more than 50 cases per thousand. The medium endemicity in Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi, whereas low endemicity is in Java and Bali which almost 100 percent of malaria cases have been confirmed clear. At 1990 malaria average incidence was 4.96 per 1,000 and declined to 1.96 per 1000 at 2010. The government is targeting to rid the country of malaria by 2030 and elimination means to achieve less than 1 incidence per 1,000 people.\n\nDiabetes is increasing at a rate of about 6% a year.\n\n1997 Southeast Asian haze, 2006 Southeast Asian haze, 2013 Southeast Asian haze and 2015 Southeast Asian haze - In all countries affected by the smoke haze, an increase of acute health outcomes was observed. Health effects including emergency room visits due to respiratory symptoms such as asthma, upper respiratory infection, decreased lung function as well as eye and skin irritation, were caused mainly by this particulate matter.\n\nIndonesia has routine vaccination to children below age 5 years as World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations including vaccination of Hepatitis B which has high prevalency in Indonesia. Almost all of the vaccines provided by Bio Farma which one of the 29 companies with a prequalification certificate from the WHO among 200 vaccine company in the world. It also has been exported to 110 countries in the world.\n\nBio Farma as a global vaccine producer will produce pentavalent vaccine (diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, hepatitis B and haemophilus influanzae type B or HiB). In 2012 the GAVI (Global Alliance for Vaccine and Immunization) will donate 80 percent of the needs of pentavalent vaccine and in the third year government should self-fulfilment.\n\nIn June 2011, the third phase test of dengue vaccine involving 800 humans with ages of 2 and 14 years old have been held in 5 community health centre around Jakarta and will be conducted also in Bandung, West Java and Denpasar, Bali with 800 and 400 participants, respectively. The first test was performed on a limited number of soldiers and the second phase was conducted on a small number of children and if within the next 5 years the vaccine is found to be safe for humans, government will apply the dengue vaccine to public.\n\nThe 2010 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 births for Indonesia is 240. This is compared with 228.6 in 2008 and 252.9 in 1990. The under 5 mortality rate, per 1,000 births is 41 and the neonatal mortality as a percentage of under 5's mortality is 49. In Indonesia the number of midwives per 1,000 live births is unavailable and the lifetime risk of death for pregnant women is 1 in 190.\n\nThe 2012 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 live births is 359 deaths, a significant increased from 2010 data with 220 deaths and far from the MDGs goal of 102 deaths by the end of 2015. The main cause of deaths are severe post-natal bleeding due to lack of pregnancy regular control, although National Family Planning Coordination Board and the Central Statistics Agency data showed improvement from 93 percent of women received prenatal care in 2007 increased to 96 percent in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54514383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54514383", "title": "Hellenic Rescue Team", "text": "Hellenic Rescue Team\n\nThe Hellenic Rescue Team (HRT; or Elliniki Omada Diasosis) is a non-governmental organization of Search and Rescue that operates in Greece. It is run by volunteers and operating since 1978. Since 1994 it is run as an association. HRC is cooperating with the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The Hellenic Rescue Team was awarded with the Nansen Refugee Award in 2016 and Mother Teresa Award in 2017 for its role in the European refugee and migrant crisis. The headquarter of the organization is in Thessaloniki. Overall there are 34 divisions of HRT in Greece. The United Nations International Search and Rescue Advisory Group has officially recognized HRT on the 23 of June 2005.\n\nHRT is also in continuous cooperation with both the OCHA (Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs), the Greek Ministry of foreign Affairs and ECHO (European Community Humanitarian Office). It also the only greek organization that is part of the International Mountain Rescue Federation (IKAR- CISA) and the International Maritime Rescue Federation (IMRF). Furthermore it is also part of the International Rescue Dog Organization (IRDO). The Hellenic Rescue Team works closely with the Civil Protection Secretariat, the greek Coast Guard, the greek Air Force, greek Army Air Force, the Hellenic Navy Helicopters School, the Directorate of Transmission of Air Transport and the TENEF.\n\nThe organization has over 3.000 volunteers working for it. It carries out search and rescue operations in emergencies and disasters within Greece or in sea surrounding Greece. The staff and volunteers and scientifically and technically trained to carry out the missions. \n\nThe organization has provided aid in international emergency situations since 1999. The first international deployment was in the earthquakes of Turkey (1999), Algeria (2003), Morocco (2004), Iran (2004) and Indonesia (2005) - where full equipment was sent for the operation of a pre-hospital care center for 10,000 people for two months - Pakistan (2005) and lastly the Lebanese crisis where it sent 23.5 tons of food and pharmaceutical products gathered through its network.\nThe Greek Rescue Team also participated in the relieve efforts in the Haiti earthquake in 2010.\nThe HRT received the Nansen Refugee Award in 2016 for its rescue efforts in 2015 where the organizations saved over 2.500 people in the Aegean sea. During that year the organization undertook 1.035 rescue operations and additionally assisted over 7.000 people to safety In 2017 the organization received the Mother Teresa award from the \"Harmony Foundation\" based in Mumbai, India. They received the award for their \"heroic actions\" during the migrant and refugee crisis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1247939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1247939", "title": "Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus", "text": "Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus\n\nKaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is the ninth known human herpesvirus; its formal name according to the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) is HHV-8. Like other herpesviruses, its informal name (KSHV) is used interchangeably with its more formal ICTV name. This virus causes Kaposi's sarcoma, a cancer commonly occurring in AIDS patients, as well as primary effusion lymphoma, HHV-8-associated multicentric Castleman's disease and KSHV inflammatory cytokine syndrome. It is one of seven currently known human cancer viruses, or oncoviruses.\n\nIn 1872, Moritz Kaposi described a blood vessel tumor (originally called \"idiopathic multiple pigmented sarcoma of the skin\") that has since been eponymously named Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). KS was at first thought to be an uncommon tumor of Jewish and Mediterranean populations until it was later determined to be extremely common throughout sub-Saharan African populations. This led to the first suggestions in the 1950s that this tumor might be caused by a virus. With the onset of the AIDS epidemic in the early 1980s, there was a sudden resurgence of KS affecting primarily gay and bisexual AIDS patients,with up to 50% of reported AIDS patients having this tumor—an extraordinary rate of cancer predisposition. Careful analysis of epidemiologic data by Valerie Beral, Thomas Peterman and Harold Jaffe, led these investigators to propose that KS is caused by an unknown sexually transmitted virus that rarely causes tumors unless the host becomes immunosuppressed, as in AIDS.\nAs early as 1984, scientists reported seeing herpesvirus-like structures in KS tumors examined under electron microscopy. Scientists had been searching for the agent causing KS, and over 20 agents were proposed as the possible cause, including cytomegalovirus and HIV itself. The pathogen was ultimately identified in 1994 by Yuan Chang and Patrick S. Moore, a wife and husband team at Columbia University, through the isolation of DNA fragments from a herpesvirus found in a KS tumor in an AIDS patient. Chang and Moore used representational difference analysis, or RDA, to find KSHV by comparing KS tumor tissue from an AIDS patient to his own unaffected tissue. The idea behind this experiment was that if a virus causes KS, the genomic DNA in the two samples should be precisely identical except for DNA belonging to the virus. In their initial RDA experiment, they isolated two small DNA fragments that represented less than 1% of the actual viral genome. These fragments were similar (but still distinct from) the known herpevirus sequences, indicating the presence of a new virus. Starting from these fragments, this research team was then able to sequence the entire genome of the virus less than two years later.\n\nThe discovery of this herpesvirus sparked considerable controversy and scientific in-fighting until sufficient data had been collected to show that indeed KSHV was the causative agent of Kaposi's sarcoma. The virus is now known to be a widespread infection of people living in sub-Saharan Africa; intermediate levels of infection occur in Mediterranean populations (including Israel, Saudi Arabia, Italy and Greece) and low levels of infection occur in most Northern European and North American populations. Gay and bi-sexual men are more susceptible to infection (through still unknown routes of sexual transmission) whereas the virus is transmitted through non-sexual routes in developing countries.\n\nKSHV is a herpesvirus, and is a large double-stranded DNA virus with a protein covering that packages its nucleic acids, called the capsid, which is then surrounded by an amorphous protein layer called the tegument, and finally enclosed in a lipid envelope derived in part from the cell membrane. KSHV has a genome which is approximately 165,000 nucleic acid bases in length. KSHV is a rhadinovirus, and is remarkable since it has stolen numerous genes from host cells including genes that encode for complement-binding protein, IL-6, BCL-2, cyclin-D, a G protein-coupled receptor, interferon regulatory factor and Flice inhibitory protein (FLIP), as well as DNA synthesis proteins including dihydrofolate reductase, thymidine kinase, thymidylate synthetase, DNA polymerase and many others. While no other human tumor virus possesses these same genes, other tumor viruses target the same cellular pathways illustrating that at a basic level, all tumor viruses appear to attack the same cellular control pathways, so-called tumor suppressor pathways.\n\nAfter infection, the virus enters into lymphocytes via macropinosomes where it remains in a latent (\"quiet\") state expressing the viral latency-associated nuclear antigen, LANA. Crucial for the Entry of the KSHV is the EPH receptor A2 , Hrs , TSG101 and a few Integrins, whose identity has yet to be confirmed. The virus exists as a circular piece of DNA called an episome and uses the cellular replication machinery to replicate itself. The viral episome is chromatinized upon entry into the host cell nucleus. LANA tethers the viral DNA to cellular chromosomes, inhibits p53 and retinoblastoma protein and suppresses viral genes needed for full virus production and assembly (\"lytic replication\"). Various signals such as inflammation may provoke the virus to enter into lytic replication. When lytic replication occurs, the viral episome starts replicating itself in the form of linear DNA molecules that are packaged into virus particles which are expelled from the cell, to infect new cells or to be transmitted to a new host. When the virus enters into lytic replication, thousands of virus particles can be made from a single cell, which usually results in death of the infected cell.\n\nThe viral genome consists of a ~145 kbase long unique region, encoding all of expressed viral genes, which is flanked by ~20-30 kbases of terminal repeat sequences. Each terminal repeat unit is 801 bp in length, has 85% G+C content and is oriented in a repetitive head-to-tail fashion. During latency, the virus genome depends on the host replication machinery and replicates as closed circular episome (\"plasmid\") using sequences within the terminal repeats as a replication origin. When the virus reactivates into lytic replication, it is believed that the virus genome is replicated as a continuous linear molecule off from an episome (so called rolling circle model). As each unit genome is replicated, it is cut within the terminal repeat region, and then packaged into a virus particle (virion). The virus then becomes enveloped with a lipid membrane as it transits the nucleus and the cytoplasm to exit the cell. Thus, whereas KSHV genome is circular in the nucleus of latently infected cells, it is packaged into infectious viruses as a linear molecule. Once the virus newly infects a cell, the lipid membrane is shed and the virion travels to the nucleus. The viral genome is released where it recircularizes through a poorly understood process that appears to involve homologous recombination.\n\nThe primary viral protein responsible for the switch between latent and lytic replication is known as the ORF50 Replication Transactivation Activator (RTA). When cell signaling conditions activate the generation of RTA, it in turn activates synthesis of a stereotypic cascade of secondary and tertiary viral proteins that ultimately make components of the virus capsid and also the DNA synthesis enzymes required to replicate the virus genome.\n\nThe mechanisms by which the virus is contracted are not well understood. Healthy individuals can be infected with the virus and show no signs or symptoms, due to the immune system's ability to keep the infection in check. Infection is of particular concern to the immunocompromised. Cancer patients receiving chemotherapy, AIDS patients, and organ transplant patients are all at a high risk of showing signs of infection.\n\nInfection with this virus is thought to be lifelong, but a healthy immune system will keep the virus in check. Many people infected with KSHV will never show any symptoms. Kaposi's sarcoma occurs when someone who has been infected with KSHV becomes immunocompromised due to AIDS, medical treatment, or very rarely aging.\n\nKSHV is a known causative agent of four diseases:\n\nThe seroprevalence of HHV-8 varies significantly geographically and infection rates in northern European, southeast Asian, and Caribbean countries are between 2-4%, in Mediterranean countries at approximately 10%, and in sub-Saharan African countries at approximately 40%. In South America, infection rates are low in general but are high among Amerindians. Even within individual countries, significant variation can be observed across different regions, with infection rates of about 19.2% in Xinjiang compared to about 9.5% in Hubei, China. Although seroprevalence has been consistently shown to increase with age in a linear manner, countries with high infection rates may see higher seroprevalence in younger age groups. Educational level has shown an inverse correlation with infection rates. Individuals infected with HIV-1 or genital warts are generally more likely to be co-infected with HHV-8.\n\nIn countries with low seroprevalence, HHV-8 is primarily limited to AIDS and KS patients. In countries with high seroprevalence, infection is frequent in childhood, indicating a likely mother-to-child transmission. In a Zambian survey, all children with KS had mothers who were positive for HHV-8, whereas not all children whose mothers had KS were HHV-8 positive. In another Zambian survey, 13.8% of children were seropositive for HHV-8 by age 4. Seroprevalence has not been shown to vary significantly because of gender or marital status.\n\nThe most recent common ancestor of this virus in the Mediterranean, Iran, and Xinjiang, China, has been estimated to have evolved 29,872 years (95% highest probability density 26,851-32,760 years) ago. the most recent common ancestor for viruses isolated in Xinjiang was 2037 years (95% highest probability density 1843–2229 years) ago. Given the historical links between the Mediterranean and Xinjiang during the Roman period it seems likely that this virus was introduced to Xinjiang along the Silk Road. The mutation rate was estimated to be 3.44 × 10 substitutions per site per year (95% highest probability density 2.26 × 10-6 to 4.71 × 10). However, the global distribution of different genotypes of KSHV and the potential transmission path need further studies.\n\nSince persons infected with KSHV will asymptomatically give the virus, caution should be used by sex partners in having unprotected sex and activities where saliva might be shared during sexual activity. Prudent advice is to use condoms when needed and avoid deep kissing with partners with KSHV and HIV infections or whose status is unknown. Blood tests to detect antibodies to virus exist.\n\nKaposi's sarcoma is usually a localized tumor that can be treated either surgically or through local irradiation. Chemotherapy with drugs such as liposomal anthracyclines or paclitaxel may be used, particularly for invasive disease. Antiviral drugs, such as ganciclovir, that target the replication of herpesviruses such as KSHV have been used to successfully prevent development of Kaposi's sarcoma, although once the tumor develops these drugs are of little or no use. For patients with AIDS-KS, the most effective therapy is highly active antiretroviral therapy to reduce HIV infection. AIDS patients receiving adequate anti-HIV treatment may have up to a 90% reduction in Kaposi's sarcoma occurrence.\n\nKSHV encodes for ~90 genes and multiple non-coding RNAs, such as microRNAs. The \"ORF\" genes are named based on genome position of the homologous genes in the first rhadinovirus described, herpesvirus saimiri. The \"K\" genes are unique to KSHV, Some KSHV genes have well-characterized functions, while others remain uncharacterized.\n\nORF2 – dihydrofolate reductase\n\nORF8 – gB – envelope glycoprotein involved in viral entry\n\nORF9 – Pol8 – DNA polymerase required for viral DNA replication\n\nORF10 – regulates RNA export and responses to type I IFNs\n\nORF16 – vBcl2\n\nORF18, ORF24, ORF30, ORF31, ORF34, ORF66 – viral transcription factors required for the expression of late genes\n\nORF21 – vTK – thymidine kinase\n\nORF22 – gH – envelope glycoprotein involved in viral entry\n\nORF23 – uncharacterized\n\nORF25, ORF26 and ORF65 – capsid proteins\n\nORF33 – involved in viral particle formation\n\nORF34 – unclear function\n\nORF35 – unclear function, mutant does not express early viral genes\n\nORF36 – vPK – viral protein kinase with multiple roles in replication cycle\n\nORF37 – SOX – dual function protein – DNase activity required for genome packaging and RNase activity regulates host gene expression\n\nORF38 – involved in viral particle formation\n\nORF39 – gM – envelope glycoprotein\n\nORF40 and ORF41 – helicase and primase – DNA replication\n\nORF42 – uncharacterized\n\nORF45 - tegument protein, interacts with p90 ribosomal S6 kinases (RSKs) to modulate the ERK/RSK MAPK signaling pathway\n\nORF47 – gL – envelope glycoprotein involved in viral entry\n\nORF49 – may be required for viral gene expression\n\nORF50 – RTA, replication and transcription activator – the major transcription factor driving lytic KSHV reactivation\n\nORF52 – KicGAS – tegument protein required for formation of virions and inhibition of cGAS\n\nORF53 – gN – envelope glycoprotein\n\nORF55 – uncharacterized\n\nORF57 – MTA – regulates RNA stability, export and translation of viral genes\n\nORF59 – PF–8 – polymerase processivity factor, accessory subunit of viral DNA polymerase\n\nORF67 and ORF69 – nuclear egress\n\nORF70 – thymidylate synthase\n\nORF72 – vCyclin\n\nORF73 – LANA, latency-associated nuclear antigen– tethers genome to chromosome during latency, also regulates host gene expression. A cytoplasmic form of LANA may inhibit activation of immune responses.\n\nORF74 – vGPCR\n\nORF75 – FGARAT\n\nPAN, polyadenylated nuclear RNA – non–coding linear and circular RNAs\n\nmiRNAs (mirKs) – viral microRNAs expressed during latency to regulate proliferation and cell death\n\nK1 – involved in oncogenesis\n\nK3 and K5 – ubiquitin E3 ligases – regulate antigen presentation\n\nK4 – vCCL2 – chemokine\n\nK4.1 – vCCL3 – chemokine\n\nK8 – transcriptional repressor – modulates chromatin\n\nK8.1 – envelope glycoprotein\n\nK9 – vIRF1, viral interferon regulatory factor 1\n\nK10 – vIRF4. A circular RNA (circRNA) is also generated from this locus.\n\nK10.5 – vIRF3/LANA2 – expressed during latency in B cells\n\nK11 – vIRF2\n\nK12 – kaposin\n\nK13 – vFLIP\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42588975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42588975", "title": "LG Household &amp; Health Care", "text": "LG Household &amp; Health Care\n\nLG Household & Health Care is a major South Korean consumer goods company that manages cosmetics, household goods, and beverages business.\n\nFounded in 1947, Koo In-Hwoi (Founder of LG Corp) established Lucky Chemical Industrial Corp, and launched \"Lucky Cream,\" the very first cosmetics product in Korea. In 1954, the company also launched Korea’s first toothpaste brand, ‘Lucky Toothpaste’. In February 1995, the company changed its name to LG Chemical Ltd. In April 2001, LG Household & Health Care spun off from LG Chemical, and was listed on the Korean Stock Exchange. Since current CEO & Vice Chairman, Suk Y. Cha joined the company in 2005, the business made a successful turnaround, and the company’s growth was further driven by strategic M&As. Currently, LG Household & Health Care is expanding its cosmetics and personal care business into global market.\n\nWhen LG Household & Health Care was established, there were only two business divisions of cosmetics and household goods. From the acquisition of Coca-Cola Beverage(former Coca-Cola Korea Bottling Co., Ltd) in 2007, the company completed its current business structure of cosmetics, household goods, and beverages. Currently, LG Household & Health Care is an exclusive manufacturer and distributor of Coca-Cola brand products in Korea. In 2009, the company acquired Diamond Water Co., Ltd to strengthen its drinking water business, and in 2011, the company acquired Haitai Beverage Co., Ltd, the third largest beverages company in Korea at the time.\n\nSince 2005, cosmetics business made a successful turnaround through new high-end brand launches including ‘The History of Whoo’, ‘SU:M37’, and ‘belif’. In 2010, the company acquired low-end cosmetics brandshop, ‘TheFaceShop’, and a complete cosmetics product portfolio consisting of high-end, mid-end, to low-end was achieved. In 2012, LG Household & Health Care acquired cosmetics brand, ‘Violet Dream’ (former VOV) to strengthen its color cosmetics business. In 2014, the company acquired local cosmeceutical firm, CNP Cosmetics Co., Ltd, in order to expand into newly growing cosmeceutical category.\n\nLG Household & Health Care is the second largest cosmetics company in South Korea, and it has continued to narrow the gap with its competitor. Its major high-end cosmetics brands include ‘The History of Whoo’, ‘O Hui’, ‘SU:M37’, and ‘belif’. The high-end cosmetics business is growing fast with ‘The History of Whoo’ recording the highest sales among all other brands in major duty-free stores in Korea. The major brands in mid-to-low end cosmetics include ‘ISA KNOX’, ‘Sooryehan’, ‘BEYOND’, and ‘THEFACESHOP’, the number one brandshop in Korea.\n\nLG Household & Health Care has maintained a dominant number one position in Korean household goods industry, and still continues to increase its market share through product differentiation, and category expansion. The major business units are personal care and home care. Personal care includes oral care, hair care, and body care, while home care includes dishwashing detergent, laundry detergent, and fabric softener. The major brands are ‘Perioe’·’Bamboo Salt’(oral care), ‘Elastine’·’Reen’(hair care), ‘ON: THE BODY’(body care), ‘TECH’(laundry detergent), ‘Jayeonpong’(dishwashing detergent), and ‘Saffron’(fabric softner).\n\nBeverages business division was established through the M&A of Coca-Cola Beverage(former Coca-Cola Korea Bottling Co., Ltd) in 2007, and is currently the second largest beverage company in Korea. The major brands are ‘Coca-Cola’, ‘Fanta’, ‘Sprite’, ‘Minute-Maid’, ‘Sunkist’, ‘Georgia’, and ‘POWERADE’.\n"}
{"id": "9342513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9342513", "title": "Laminopathy", "text": "Laminopathy\n\nLaminopathies (\"lamino-\" + \"-opathy\") are a group of rare genetic disorders caused by mutations in genes encoding proteins of the nuclear lamina. They are included in the more generic term \"nuclear envelopathies\" that was coined in 2000 for diseases associated with defects of the nuclear envelope. Since the first reports of laminopathies in the late 1990s, increased research efforts have started to uncover the vital role of nuclear envelope proteins in cell and tissue integrity in animals.\n\nLaminopathies and other nuclear envelopathies have a large variety of clinical symptoms including skeletal and/or cardiac muscular dystrophy, lipodystrophy and diabetes, dysplasia, dermo- or neuropathy, leukodystrophy, and progeria (premature aging). Most of these symptoms develop after birth, typically during childhood or adolescence. Some laminopathies however may lead to an early death, and mutations of lamin B (LMNB1 gene) may be lethal before or at birth.\n\nPatients with classical laminopathy have mutations in the gene coding for lamin A/C (LMNA gene).\n\nMore recently, mutations in lamin B (LMNB2 gene) or genetic defects leading to changes in lamin B abundance were identified as cause for laminopathies.\n\nMutations implicated in other nuclear envelopathies were found in genes coding for lamin-binding proteins such as lamin B receptor (LBR gene), emerin (EMD gene) and LEM domain-containing protein 3 (LEMD3 gene) and prelamin-processing enzymes such as the zinc metalloproteinase STE24 (ZMPSTE24 gene).\n\nMutations causing laminopathies include recessive as well as dominant alleles with rare \"de novo\" mutations creating dominant alleles that do not allow their carriers to reproduce before death.\n\nThe nuclear envelopathy with the highest frequency in human populations is Emery–Dreifuss muscular dystrophy caused by an X-linked mutation in the EMD gene coding for emerin and affecting an estimated 1 in 100,000 people.\n\nLamins are intermediate filament proteins that form the nuclear lamina scaffold underneath the nuclear envelope in animal cells. They are attached to the nuclear envelope membrane via farnesyl anchors and interaction with inner nuclear membrane proteins such as lamin B receptor and emerin. The nuclear lamina appears to be an adaptation to mobility in animals as sessile organisms such as plants or fungi do not have lamins and the symptoms of many laminopathies include muscle defects. Mutations in these genes might lead to defects in filament assembly and/or attachment to the nuclear envelope and thus jeopardize nuclear envelope stability in physically stressed tissues such as muscle fibers, bone, skin and connective tissue.\n\nMessenger RNA produced from the LMNA gene undergoes alternative splicing and is translated into lamins A and C. Lamin A undergoes farnesylation to attach a membrane anchor to the protein. This version of the protein is also referred to as prelamin A. Farnesylated prelamin A is further processed into mature lamin A by a metalloproteinase removing the last 15 amino acids and its farnesylated cysteine. This allows lamin A to dissociate from the nuclear envelope membrane and fulfill nuclear functions. Mutations causing laminopathies interfere with these processes on different levels.\n\nMissense mutations in the lamin A/C rod and tail domains are the cause for a wide array of genetic disorders, suggesting that lamin A/C protein contains distinct functional domains that are essential for the maintenance and integrity of different cell lineages. Interaction between lamin A and the nuclear envelope protein emerin appears to be crucial in muscle cells, with certain mutations in lamin mimicking mutations in emerin and causing Emery–Dreifuss muscular dystrophy. Different mutations lead to dominant-negative and recessive alleles. Mutations in the lamin rod domain leading to mislocalization of both lamin A and emerin occur in patients with autosomal dominant forms of muscular dystrophy and cardiomyopathy.\n\nMost lamin B mutations appear to be lethal with mutations in lamin B1 causing death at birth in mice. In 2006, lamin B2 missense mutations were identified in patients with acquired partial lipodystrophy.\n\nThe most common mutation in the lamin A/C is the homozygous Arg527His (arginine replaced by histidine at position 527) substitution in \nexon 9 of the LMNA gene\nOther known mutations are Ala529Val and Arg527His/Val440Met. Additionally, some mutations such as Arg527Cys, Lys542Asn, Arg471Cys, Thr528Met/Met540Thr, and Arg471Cys/Arg527Cys, Arg527Leu\nresult in mandibuloacral dysplasia with progeria-like features.\n\nMutations causing progeria are defective in splicing LMNA mRNA, therefore producing abnormal lamin A protein, also known as \"progerin\". The mutations activate a cryptic splice site within exon 11 of the gene, thereby causing the deletion of the processing site on prelamin A. This results in an accumulation of progerin that is unable to mature into lamin A, leading to misshapen nuclei. Missplicing also leads to the complete or partial loss of exon 11 and results in a truncated prelamin A protein in the neonatal lethal tight skin contracture syndrome.\n\nSince the metalloproteinase STE24 is required to process prelamin A into mature lamin A, mutations in this gene abolishing protease activity cause defects similar to laminopathies caused by prelamin A with truncated processing sites. Symptoms in patients with ZMPSTE24 mutation range from mandibuloacral dysplasia, progeroid appearance, and generalized lipodystrophy to infant-lethal restrictive dermopathy.\n\nIn the case of autosomal dominant leukodystrophy, the disease is associated with a duplication of the lamin B gene LMNB1. The exact dosage of lamin B in cells appears to be crucial for nuclear integrity as increased expression of lamin B causes a degenerative phenotype in fruit flies and leads to abnormal nuclear morphology.\n\nAntibodies against lamin B have been implicated in autoimmune diseases and are possibly involved in multiple sclerosis.\n\nA-type lamins promote genetic stability by maintaining the levels of proteins that have key roles in DNA double-strand break repair during the processes of non-homologous end joining and homologous recombination. Mutations in lamin A (LMNA) cause Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome, a dramatic form of premature aging. Mouse cells deficient for maturation of prelamin A show increased DNA damage and chromosome aberrations and are more sensitive to DNA damaging agents. The inability to adequately repair DNA damages when A-type lamins are defective is likely responsible for some of the aspects of premature aging.\n\nCurrently, there is no cure for laminopathies and treatment is largely symptomatic and supportive. Physical therapy and/or corrective orthopedic surgery may be helpful for patients with muscular dystrophies. Laminopathies affecting heart muscle may cause heart failure requiring treatment with medications including ACE inhibitors, beta blockers and aldosterone antagonists, while the abnormal heart rhythms that frequently occur in these patients may require a pacemaker or implantable defibrillator. Treatment for neuropathies may include medication for seizures and spasticity.\n\nThe recent progress in uncovering the molecular mechanisms of toxic progerin formation in laminopathies leading to premature aging has opened up the potential for the development of targeted treatment. The farnesylation of prelamin A and its pathological form progerin is carried out by the enzyme farnesyl transferase. Farnesyl transferase inhibitors (FTIs) can be used effectively to reduce symptoms in two mouse model systems for progeria and to revert the abnormal nuclear morphology in progeroid cell cultures. Two oral FTIs, lonafarnib and tipifarnib, are already in use as anti-tumor medication in humans and may become avenues of treatment for children suffering from laminopathic progeria. Nitrogen-containing bisphosphate drugs used in the treatment of osteoporosis reduce farnesyldiphosphate production and thus prelamin A farnesylation. Testing of these drugs may prove them to be useful in treating progeria as well. The use of antisense oligonucleotides to inhibit progerin synthesis in affected cells is another avenue of current research into the development of anti-progerin drugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "44386654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44386654", "title": "List of Ethiopian and Eritrean dishes and foods", "text": "List of Ethiopian and Eritrean dishes and foods\n\nThis is a list of Ethiopian and Eritrean dishes and foods. Ethiopian and Eritrean cuisines characteristically consists of vegetable and often very spicy meat dishes, usually in the form of \"wat\" (also \"w'et\" or \"wot\"), a thick stew, served atop \"injera\", a large sourdough flatbread, which is about in diameter and made out of fermented teff flour. Ethiopians and Eritreans eat exclusively with their right hands, using pieces of \"injera\" to pick up bites of entrées and side dishes. Utensils are rarely used with Ethiopian and Eritrean cuisine.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38815844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38815844", "title": "List of GlaxoSmithKline products", "text": "List of GlaxoSmithKline products\n\nThis is a list of products manufactured by the multinational pharmaceutical, biologics, vaccines and consumer healthcare company GlaxoSmithKline (GSK).\n\nPharmaceutical products currently produced by GlaxoSmithKline include:\n\nVaccines currently produced by GlaxoSmithKline include:\n\nConsumer healthcare products currently produced by GlaxoSmithKline include:\n\nConsumer sports nutrition products manufactured by GSK-owned MaxiNutrition \n"}
{"id": "713468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=713468", "title": "List of hospitals in Turkey", "text": "List of hospitals in Turkey\n\nThis is a list of hospitals in Turkey.\n\nSee List of hospitals in Ankara.\n\n\nSee List of hospitals in Balıkesir.\n\nSee List of hospitals in Bursa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee List of hospitals in İzmir.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44808017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44808017", "title": "List of schools for quantitative psychology", "text": "List of schools for quantitative psychology\n\nThis is a nonexhaustive list of schools that offer degrees in quantitative psychology or related fields such as psychometrics or research methodology. Programs are typically offered in departments of psychology, educational psychology, or human development. Various organizations, including the American Psychological Association's Division 5, the Canadian Psychological Association, the National Council for Measurement in Education, and the Society of Multivariate Experimental Psychology have compiled lists of programs.\n\nRecords are listed alphabetically by university in descending order. Within a given university, records are sorted by degree (doctorate, then master's). Inclusion criteria are described on the .\n\n"}
{"id": "907007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=907007", "title": "Litter", "text": "Litter\n\nLitter consists of waste products that have been disposed of improperly, without consent, at an inappropriate location. Litter can also be used as a verb. To litter means to drop and leave objects, often man-made, such as aluminum cans, cardboard boxes or plastic bottles on the ground and leave them there indefinitely or for others to dispose of as opposed to disposing of them properly.\n\nLarge and hazardous items of rubbish such as tires, electrical appliances, electronics, batteries and large industrial containers are sometimes dumped in isolated locations, such as national forests and other public lands.\n\nIt is a human impact on the environment and remains a serious environmental issue in many countries. Litter can exist in the environment for long periods of time before degrading and be transported large distances into the world's oceans. Litter can affect the quality of life.\n\nCigarette butts are the most littered item in the world, with 4.5 trillion discarded annually. Estimates on the required time for cigarette butts to break down vary. They range from five years to 400 years for complete degradation.\n\nIn addition to intentional littering, almost half of litter on U.S. roadways is now accidental or unintentional litter, usually debris that falls off improperly secured trash, recycling collection vehicles and pickup trucks. Population levels, traffic density and proximity to waste disposal sites are factors known to correlate with higher litter rates.\n\nIllegally dumped hazardous waste may be a result of the costs of dropping materials at designated sites: some of these charge a fee for depositing hazardous material. Lack of access to nearby facilities that accept hazardous waste may deter use. Additionally, ignorance of the laws that regulate the proper disposal of hazardous waste may cause improper disposal.\n\nAccording to a study by the Dutch organization VROM, 80% of people claim that \"everybody leaves a piece of paper, tin or something, on the street behind\". Young people from 12 to 24 years cause more litter than the average (Dutch or Belgian) person; only 18% of people who regularly cause litter were 50 years of age or older. However, a 2010 survey of littering in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont in the United States, placed litterers aged 55 and over at less than 5%. The same observational study estimated that 78% of litterers are male. In 1999, research by Keep America Beautiful found that 75% of Americans admitted to littering the last five years, yet 99% of the same individuals admitted that they enjoyed a clean environment.\n\nNegligent or lenient law enforcement contributes to littering behavior. Other causes are inconvenience, entitlement and economic conditions. A survey of dumping in Pennsylvania found that the largest number of illegal dumps were in townships without municipal trash hauling. The same report also cites unavailability of curbside trash and recycling service, shortage of enforcement, and habit as possible causes. The presence of litter invites more littering.\n\nThe two-stage process model of littering behavior describes the different ways in which people litter. The model was proposed by Chris Sibley and James Liu and differentiates between two types of littering: active and passive.\n\nThe theory has implications for understanding the different types of litter reduction interventions that will most effectively reduce littering in a given environment. The theory states that, all things being equal, passive littering will be more resistant to change because of two psychological processes: 1. diffusion of responsibility that increases as the latency between when an individual places litter in the environment and when they vacate the territory, and 2. forgetting, which is also more likely to occur at longer delays between when an individual places litter in the environment and when they vacate the territory.\n\nLitter can remain visible for extended periods of time before it eventually biodegrades, with some items made of condensed glass, styrofoam or plastic possibly remaining in the environment for over a million years.\n\nAbout 18 percent of litter, usually traveling through stormwater systems, ends up in local streams, rivers, and waterways. Uncollected litter can accrete and flow into streams, local bays and estuaries. Litter in the ocean either washes up on beaches or collects in Ocean gyres such as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. About 80 percent of marine debris comes from land-based sources.\n\nSome litter that is collected can be recycled, however degraded litter cannot be recycled and eventually degrades to sludge, often toxic. The majority of litter that is collected goes to landfills.\n\nLitter can have a detrimental impact on humans and the environment in different ways.\n\nHazardous materials encapsulated within tires and other items of illegally dumped rubbish can leach into water sources, contaminate the soil and pollute the air.\n\nTires are the most often dumped hazardous waste. In 2007 the United States generated 262 million scrap tires. Thirty-eight states have laws that ban whole tires being deposited in landfills. Many of these discarded tires end up illegally dumped on public lands. Tires can become a breeding ground for insect vectors which can transmit disease to humans. Mosquitoes, which breed in stagnant water, can transmit West Nile virus and malaria. Rodents nest in accumulated tires and can transmit diseases such as Hantavirus.\n\nWhen tires are burned they can smolder for long periods of time, emitting hundreds of chemical compounds that pollute the air causing respiratory illnesses. Additionally the residue left behind can harm the soil and leach into groundwater.\n\nVisual pollution is a major effect of litter.\n\nOpen containers such as paper cups, cardboard food packets, plastic drinks bottles and aluminum drinks cans may fill up with rainwater, providing breeding locations for mosquitoes. In addition, a spark or a lightning flash can start a fire if it strikes litter such as a paper bag or cardboard box.\n\nLitter can be hazardous to health. Debris falling from vehicles is an increasing cause of automobile accidents. Discarded dangerous goods, chemicals, tires, sharps waste and pathogens resulting from litter can cause accidental harm to humans.\n\nLitter also carries substantial cost to the economy. Cleaning up litter in the US costs hundreds of dollars per ton, about ten times more than the cost of trash disposal, with a cost totaling about $11 billion per year.\n\nAnimals may get trapped or poisoned with litter in their habitats. Cigarette butts and filters are a threat to wildlife and have been found in the stomachs of fish, birds and whales, who have mistaken them for food. Also animals can get trapped in the rubbish and be in serious discomfort. For example, the plastic used to hold beverage cans together can get wrapped around animals' necks and cause them to suffocate as they grow. Other instances where animals could be harmed by litter include broken glass lacerating the paws of dogs, cats, and other small mammals.\n\nMost litter in Victoria, Australia ends up in or near oceans, beaches or rivers. \n\nOrganic litter in large amounts can cause water pollution and lead to algal blooms. Cigarettes could also start fires if they are not put out and then discarded in the environment.\n\nLitter is an environmental issue in many countries around the world. While countries in the developing world lack the resources to deal with the issue, consumer based economies in the western world are capable of generating larger quantities of litter per capita due to a higher consumption of disposable products.\n\nA number of credible studies have shown that fast food packaging is one of the most common forms of litter while McDonald's is the most common brand of litter, despite having messages to dispose of properly, such as the Ronald McDonald \"tidy man\" marking.\n\nPublic waste containers or street bins are provided by local authorities to be used as a convenient place for the disposal and collection of litter. Increasingly both general waste and recycling options are provided. Local councils pick the waste up and take it to reuse or recycling. However, there are issues with this approach. If the bins are not regularly emptied, then overfilling of bins occurs and can increase litter indirectly. Some local authorities will only take responsibility for rubbish that is placed in the bins, which means that litter remains a problem. People may blame a lack of well-placed bins for their littering. Hazardous materials may be incorrectly disposed of in the bins and they can encourage dumpster diving.\n\nVolunteers, sometimes alone or coordinated through organizations, pick up litter and dispose of it. Clean up events may be organized in which participants will sometimes comb an area in a line to ensure that no litter is missed. In North America, Adopt a Highway programs are popular, in which companies and organizations commit to cleaning stretches of road. In Kiwayu, a Kenyan island, some of the collected litter (flip-flops) is used to make art, which is then sold.\n\nPicking up litter can be hazardous to health. Hazards can include spinal damage through repeated bending, and exposure to dangerous goods, sharps waste and pathogens. As a result, safety equipment such as gloves is sometimes worn and tools such as reach extenders are used.\n\nLitter traps can be used to capture litter as it exits stormwater drains into waterways. However, litter traps are only effective for large or floating items of litter and must be maintained. A recent watershed litter survey showed a difference in the composition of street litter and stormwater litter.\n\nIncreasingly, there have been efforts to use technology to monitor areas prone to dumping. In Japan, a study used Geographic Information Systems (GIS) to map areas of dumping based on site characteristics.\nAnother study used satellite images to detect possible illegal dumping sites. \n\nContainer deposit legislation can be aimed at both reducing littering and also encouraging picking up through local recycling programs that offer incentives, particularly for aluminium cans, glass bottles and plastic bottles. In New York, an expanded bottle bill that included plastic water bottles increased recycling rates and generated 120 million dollars in revenue to the state General Fund from unclaimed deposits in 2010.\n\nIn some countries such as Germany and the Netherlands, container deposit legislation has been introduced on cans and plastic bottles. Parts of Belgium are also considering adopting such legislation. People can thus collect refund value money from this type of waste. The result of this is that in Germany, hardly any cans or plastic bottles can still be found along the road. In the Netherlands, the amount of litter has dropped considerably since the new law was implemented, and 95% of the plastic bottles are now recycled. According to Chris Snick, the revenue that can be obtained from waste picking can be financially profitable in countries where container deposit legislation has been introduced: in 1 hour he managed to pick up 108 cans and 31 plastic bottles, earning him 13.90 euro (€0.10 per can/plastic bottle). By comparison, in countries where only the value of the aluminum for example would be refunded, 139 cans would yield only 1.72 euro (0.0124 euro per can; assuming there is 15 grams of aluminum in a can, and with scrap aluminum valued at 0.8267 euro/kg).\n\nSome countries and local authorities have introduced legislation to address the problem.\n\nActions resulting in fines can include on-the-spot fines for individuals administered by authorised officers in public or on public transport or littering from a vehicle, in which the vehicle owner is fined - reported by either responsible officer or third party, sometimes online.\n\nSpecific legislation exists in the following countries:\n\nMany groups exist with the aim of raising awareness and run campaigns including clean up events. World Cleanup Day is a worldwide campaign.\n\nIn the United States there are a number of organizations running anti-litter campaigns. Keep America Beautiful was founded in 1953, and promulgated the word \"litterbug\", coined by its partner the Ad Council in 1947. At least 38 states have high profile, government-recognized slogan campaigns, including Don't Mess with Texas; Let's Pick It Up New York; Don't Trash California; Take Pride in Florida; Keep Iowa Beautiful.\n\nIn Australia, Clean Up Australia Day is supported by many major Australian companies, firms and volunteers alike. Anti-litter organizations include \"Keep Australia Beautiful\", founded in 1963. It created the popular \"Do the Right Thing\" campaign and its Tidy Towns competition became well known being a very competitive expression of civic pride.\n\nKeep Britain Tidy is a British campaign run by the Keep Britain Tidy environmental charity, which is part funded by the UK government.\n\nThroughout human history, people have disposed of unwanted materials onto streets, roadsides, in small local dumps or often in remote locations. Prior to reforms within cities in the mid-to-late 19th century, sanitation was not a government priority. The growing piles of waste led to the spread of disease.\n\nAnti-littering legislation seems to have existed in ancient Greece, as is evidenced by a road marker discovered on the island of Paros, bearing the inscription \"whoever drops their litter on the street owes 51 drachmae to whoever wishes to claim them\".\n\nTo address the growing amount of waste generated in the United States, the Solid Waste Disposal Act of 1965 was enacted. In 1976 the Federal government amended the Solid Waste Disposal Act, creating the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), which requires a \"cradle to grave\" approach to the proper handling of potentially hazardous materials. RCRA gives authority to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate and enforce proper hazardous waste disposal.\nMany countries now have laws that require that household hazardous waste be deposited in a special location rather than sent to landfills with regular refuse. Household hazardous waste includes paints and solvents, chemicals, light bulbs, fluorescent lights, spray cans, and yard products such as fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides and insecticides. Additionally, medical waste generated at home is considered a hazardous waste and must be disposed of properly.\n\n"}
{"id": "38068213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38068213", "title": "Malaria Control Project", "text": "Malaria Control Project\n\nMalaria Control is a volunteer distributed computing project. The project simulate the transmission dynamics and health effects of malaria. It is part of the Africa@home project.\n\nThe malariacontrol.net domain name was first registered on 19 May 2005 under Swiss Tropical Institute. This project was under Africa@home where the latter was conceived and developed by European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN). Malariacontrol was the first project to use distributed computing to model diseases. The model simulates malaria infection in 50,000 to 100,000 people. Each work unit lasted for an hour in average personal computers and the results were returned to University of Geneva for evaluation by researchers. Malariacontrol ran all the simulations by using stochastic simulation model.\n\nSince 4 November 2010, using the financial support from Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Malariacontrol.net developed an open-source software named \"Open Malaria\" which can be used to simulate outcomes in various types of malaria transmission settings.\n\nOn 21 June 2016, malariacontrol.net announced that the project has been terminated due to financial constraints in upgrading their servers for further volunteer computing operations.\n\nOver 10 years, malariacontrol.net has produced 30 peer-reviewed articles.\n\nIn 2008, among the studies performed were the effectiveness of different types of Malaria vaccines in high and low malaria transmission settings, effectiveness of Sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine in preventive treatment of malaria in infants, and using individual-based stochastic simulations in \"Plasmodium falciparum\" control.\n\nIn 2012, Malaria Control has studied the effectiveness of using RTS,S malaria vaccine in World Health Organization's Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) in different malarial transmission settings and reported that such programme only has modest benefits over 14 years period. The study suggested that the RTS,S vaccine should be used in targeted mass vaccination in low malarial transmission settings in order to get the most benefits out of it.\n\nIn 2013, Malariacontrol had examined the effectiveness of Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDT) and other surveillance tools in detecting malaria infections among high and low \"Plasmodium falciparum\" transmissions. The project also recommended that screening the whole human population for malaria before treating them would be more cost effective when compared to indiscriminate treatment of the whole population with antimalarial drugs. Another study also revealed that both Pyrethroid-only mosquito nets and Piperonyl butoxide mosquito nets are cost effective in preventing malarial infections in both Pyrethroid-susceptible and Pyrethroid-resistant mosquitoes.\n\nAs of 2010, malariacontrol.net had about 10,000 active users with 37,002 registered members. Similar to the general BOINC users, malariacontrol.net mainly had a volunteer base of males ranged from 20 to 50 years old, mostly staying in European countries and North America. Most of them learned about this project through BOINC website and their main motivation was the satisfaction of doing something good for the betterment of humankind.\n"}
{"id": "1149900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1149900", "title": "Massachusetts General Hospital", "text": "Massachusetts General Hospital\n\nMassachusetts General Hospital (Mass General or MGH) is the original and largest teaching hospital of Harvard Medical School and a biomedical research facility located in the West End neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts. It is the third oldest general hospital in the United States. With Brigham and Women's Hospital, it is one of the two founding members of Partners HealthCare, the largest healthcare provider in Massachusetts. Massachusetts General Hospital conducts the largest hospital-based research program in the world, with an annual research budget of more than $900 million. It is currently ranked as the #4 hospital in the United States by \"U.S. News & World Report\".\n\nIn November 2017, The Boston Globe ranked MGH 5th place of top workplaces, of Massachusetts companies with over 1,000 employees, this was up from 6th place in 2016.\n\nFounded in 1811, the original hospital was designed by the famous American architect Charles Bulfinch. It is the third-oldest general hospital in the United States; only Pennsylvania Hospital (1751) and NewYork–Presbyterian Hospital's predecessor New York Hospital (1771) are older. John Warren, Professor of Anatomy and Surgery at Harvard Medical School, spearheaded the move of the medical school to Boston. Warren's son, John Collins Warren, a graduate of the University of Edinburgh Medical School, along with James Jackson, led the efforts to start the Massachusetts General Hospital, which was initially proposed in 1810 by Rev. John Bartlett, the Chaplain of the Almshouse in Boston. Because all those who had sufficient money were cared for at home, Massachusetts General Hospital, like most hospitals that were founded in the 19th century, was intended to care for the poor. During the mid-to-late 19th century, Harvard Medical School was located adjacent to Massachusetts General Hospital.\n\nWalter J. Dodd established the radiology department at the hospital. From just after the discovery of x-rays in 1895, until his early death in 1916 from metastatic cancer caused by multiple radiation cancers he oversaw the radiology department. He also underwent over 50 surgical procedures at the hospital to treat his radiation injuries, from skin grafts to amputations.\n\nThe first American hospital social workers were based in the hospital.\n\nThe hospital's work with developing specialized computer software systems for medical use in the 1960s led to the development of the MUMPS programming language, which stands for \"Massachusetts General Hospital Utility Multi-Programming System,\" an important programming language and data-base system heavily used in medical applications such as patient records and billing. A major patient database system called File Manager, which was developed by the Veterans Administration (now the Department of Veterans' Affairs), was created using this language.\n\nPatients, families, hospital staff, and members of the public can learn more about the accomplishments MGH is most proud of at the Paul S. Russell, MD Museum of Medical History and Innovation, located at the front of the hospital's main campus on Cambridge Street. \n\nIt was in the Ether Dome of MGH in October 1846, that a local dentist, William Thomas Green Morton, was invited to perform a public demonstration of the administration of inhaled ether to produce insensibility to pain during surgery. Several years prior, Dr. Crawford Long of Danielsville, Georgia had given ether for surgery, but his work was unknown outside Georgia until he published his experience in 1849. On 16 October 1846, after administration of ether by Morton, MGH Chief of Surgery, John Collins Warren, painlessly removed a tumor from the neck of a local printer, Edward Gilbert Abbott. Upon completion of the procedure, which was without screaming or restraint, the usually skeptical Warren reportedly quipped, \"Gentlemen, this is no humbug.\" News of this \"anesthesia\" invention rapidly traveled within months around the world.\n\nA reenactment of the Ether Dome event was painted in 2000 by artists Warren and Lucia Prosperi. They used the then-MGH staff to pose as their counterparts from 1846. The Ether Dome still exists and is open to the public.\n\nAn anesthesia department was established at the MGH in 1936 under the leadership of Henry Knowles Beecher.\n\nOn May, 1962, under the direction of Ronald A. Malt, a team of surgeons successfully accomplished the first replantation of completely severed limb.\n\nWhile attempting to hitch a ride on the back of a freight train, Everett Knowles hit an abutment when the train lurched, severing his arm completely at the shoulder. He and his arm were rushed to MGH, where a 30 year old Malt conducted the team of surgeons. Some doctors prepared Everett for surgery, while others worked on the separated arm. First they rejoined the \"chaotically mangled blood vessels, then the bone and finally the skin.\" In the time since the accident, the arm had grown a \"deathly gray,\" but grew steadily pink as the surgery progressed and blood vessels were reattached. The nerves would be reconnected in a later surgery. \n\n“All we did,” said the modest Dr. Malt, “was apply techniques we’ve known about for a long time and simply never had occasion to correlate before…The astonishing thing was not the newness of the operation but the teamwork—the way 12 doctors with expert skills, distinguished a collection of authorities as you could find anywhere, were willing to stand by and feed the incomparable extent of their knowledge to me, for no gain other than to know they had contributed.”\n\nThe main MGH campus is located at 55 Fruit Street in Boston, Massachusetts. It has expanded into an area formerly known as the West End, adjacent to the Charles River and Beacon Hill. The hospital handles around 1.5 million outpatient visits each year at its main campus, as well as its seven satellite facilities in Boston at Back Bay, Charlestown, Chelsea, Everett, Revere, Waltham and Danvers. With more than 25,000 employees, the hospital is the largest non-governmental employer in Boston.\n\nThe hospital has 1,011 beds and admits around 50,000 patients each year. The surgical staff performs over 34,000 operations yearly. The obstetrics service handles over 3,800 births each year. The Massachusetts General Hospital Trauma Center is the oldest and largest American College of Surgeons-verified Level One Trauma Center in New England, evaluating and treating over 2600 trauma patients per year. Architect Hisham N. Ashkouri, working in conjunction with Hoskins Scott Taylor and Partners, provided the space designs and schematics for the pediatrics, neonatal intensive care, and in-patient related floors, as well as the third floor surgical suites and support facilities. In the fall of 2004, the Yawkey Center for Outpatient Care (named for Jean R. Yawkey) opened. This ten-floor facility is the largest and most comprehensive outpatient building in New England. In 2011, the Lunder Building, a 530,000 square foot, 14-floor building opened. The building houses three floors of operating rooms, an expanded emergency room, radiation oncology suites, inpatient neurology and neurosurgery floors, and inpatient oncology floors; all of which increase the inpatient capacity by 150 beds.\n\nThe MGH reports it conducts the largest hospital-based research program in the United States, with an annual research budget of over $900 million in Fiscal 2017. The Mass General Research Institute was launched in 2014 to serve as a front door for the hospital's research enterprise. Research at Mass General takes place in over 30 departments, centers and institutions and covers many areas including AIDS, cardiovascular research, cancer, human genetics, medical imaging, neurodegenerative disorders, regenerative medicine, transplantation biology and photomedicine. The Treadwell Library, established in 1847, is the health sciences library for MGH.\n\nMGH is affiliated with the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute through Dana-Farber/Partners Cancer Care and the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center. They are also affiliated with Project Pinball Charity.\n\nThe closest MBTA stop to the main campus is Charles/MGH on the Red Line. On March 27, 2007, the new Charles/MGH station was opened with new renovations, including handicap accessible elevators. There are five main food service areas for the general public on the MGH campus. They include the \"Eat Street Cafe\" in the lower level of the Ellison Building, the \"Blossom Street Cafe\" in the Cox lobby, \"Coffee Central\" in the White lobby, \"Tea Leaves and Coffee Beans\" in the Wang Ambulatory Care Center, and \"Coffee South\" in the Yawkey outpatient center.\n\nThe hospital offers a global second opinion service in cooperation with Grand Rounds.\n\nMassachusetts General Hospital is affiliated with Harvard Medical School and is its original teaching hospital. Together they form an academic health science center. In February 2009, the Phillip T. and Susan M. Ragon Institute of immunology was founded to bolster research into creating vaccines and other therapies for acquired immune system conditions, chiefly AIDS. It was made possible by a $100 million gift over ten years, and represents the largest single donation made to MGH. The Recovery Research Institute, created in 2013, is part of the Massachusetts General Hospital Department of Psychiatry. In 2015, MGH Home Base Program became a founding partner of the Warrior Care Network heath system focused on treating posttramatic stress disorder (PTSD) in veterans, along with partners Emory Healthcare, Rush University Medical Center, UCLA Health and Wounded Warrior Project.\n\nThough it has its own chief of psychiatry and top ranking department, MGH is closely affiliated with nearby McLean Hospital, a psychiatric hospital also affiliated with Harvard Medical School.\n\nThere have been thirteen Nobel Laureates who have either worked or trained at MGH.\n\nIn 2015, MGH was named the number one hospital in the United States by \"U.S. News & World Report\" and is nationally ranked in 16 specialties.\n\nIn 2012, MGH was named the number one hospital in the United States by \"U.S. News & World Report\".\n\nIn 2011, MGH was named the second best hospital in the United States by \"U.S. News & World Report\". MGH consistently ranks as one of the country's top hospitals in \"U.S. News & World Report\". In 2011, MGH was also ranked as one of the top three hospitals in the country for Diabetes & Endocrinology; Ear, Nose & Throat; Neurology & Neurosurgery; Ophthalmology; Orthopedics; and Psychiatry.\n\nIn 2003, MGH was named the state's first Magnet hospital by the American Nurses Credentialing Center, a subsidiary of the American Nurses Association. Magnet recognition represents the highest honor awarded for nursing excellence.\n\nIn August 2011, Becker's Hospital Review listed MGH as number 12 on the 100 Top Grossing Hospitals in America with $5.64 billion in gross revenue.\n\nIn November 2018, Expertscape recognized MGH as #4 in the world for expertise in Pancreatic Cancer. \n\nA former MGH physician filed a lawsuit under seal in May 2015 alleging that at least five orthopedic surgeons endangered patient safety by keeping them under anesthesia longer than necessary while the surgeons performed simultaneous surgeries. Dr. Lisa Wollman refiled the lawsuit in June 2017, citing concerns that the hospital was driven by economic benefit and keeping patients unaware of the practice of concurrent surgeries. Wollman's attorney claimed that Medicare and Medicaid were being defrauded because they require that the surgeons must be present for all \"critical portions\" of the surgery in order to be compensated.\n\nThe hospital released a statement defending the use of overlapping surgeries: \"The MGH continues to believe that its practices comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and the hospital will defend the claims accordingly.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34439220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34439220", "title": "Maxime Hans Kuczyński", "text": "Maxime Hans Kuczyński\n\nMaxime Hans Kuczyński (2 February 1890 – 1967) was a Polish-Peruvian physician.\n\nMaxime Kuczyński was born near Poznań, then in the Province of Posen within the German Empire, as the son of Emma (\"née\" Schlesinger) and Louis Kuczyński, both of Jewish origin. The family moved to Berlin shortly after his birth. He studied medicine and natural science at the University of Rostock. In 1913 he received his degree in philosophy, and in 1919 a degree in medicine.\n\nDuring World War I, he served in the German army and participated in the Balkans Campaign. In 1924, he received his professorship. After the Nazis came to power he fled to Peru. Between 1924 and 1926 he conducted anthropological research in Central Asia, and later, between 1938 and 1948, in Andes.\n\nKuczyński died in Lima.\n\nHis son, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, born in Lima in 1938, was Prime Minister between 2005 and 2006. A decade later, he became President after winning the second round in June 2016. His American granddaughter, Alex Kuczynski, is a journalist and writer.\n"}
{"id": "2503904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2503904", "title": "Methadone clinic", "text": "Methadone clinic\n\nA methadone clinic is a clinic which has been established for the dispensing of methadone (Dolophine). Methadone treatment is indicated in patients who are opioid dependent or have a history of opioid dependence. Methadone is a schedule II (USA) opioid analgesic, that is also prescribed for pain management. It is a long-acting opioid that can delay the opioid withdrawal symptoms that patients experience from taking short-acting opioids, like heroin, and allow time for detoxification. By law, patients must receive methadone under the supervision of a physician, and dispensed through an opioid treatment program certified by Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and registered with the Drug Enforcement Agency.\n\nIn the United States, there are approximately 1500 methadone clinics that are federally certified opioid treatment programs. There are generally two types of methadone clinics, public and private. The public clinics are generally cheaper to attend. However, there is usually a waiting list due to limited funding. The private clinics are more expensive to attend but usually have either a short or no waiting list. In many parts of the United States, methadone clinics are few and far between, which presents problems for addicts seeking methadone treatment who live far from a clinic. The greatest concentrations of clinics are in California, Maryland, New York, and New Jersey. All methadone clinics must register as an accredited opioid treatment program with Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration and renewed yearly or every three years based on accreditation time-frame awarded. Additionally, methadone clinics must register with the Drug Enforcement Agency before methadone can be dispensed. While not restricted to adults, this treatment method is generally not considered for people under the age of 18. \n\nMethadone clinics in the United States operate under strict regulations by state and federal laws. Before entering treatment, a patient must be given adequate information to provide informed consent about starting treatment. This information includes reasons for treatment and recommendation, the side effects and risks of treatment, and rules that must be followed to receive methadone treatment. After a physician ensures that the patient voluntarily chooses to receive treatment through a consent form, treatment planning can begin. The patient must show current addiction to an opioid, using accepted medical criteria such as those listed in the DSM-5 and have evidence that he or she became addicted at least 1 year before admission for treatment. . Prior to administration of treatment, a clinical evaluation is required asking about drug use history, co-occurring disorders, and impact of abuse on life, along with providing information about the treatment goals and guidelines. A medical evaluation is also given in the form of a urinalysis test, a review of past and current health history, and a test for certain conditions which are known to be prevalent in addict populations, such as HIV, hepatitis, and tuberculosis. The medication is monitored by nursing staff and is prescribed by a physician. As of 2013, due to the strict changes in receiving prescription pain medication as well as decreases in prescription abuse, the requirements to be accepted into methadone clinics have changed in areas such as New York State.\n\nMethadone clinics can provide methadone for on-site administration or to take home for self administration. Opioid Treatment Medications should be administered/dispensed by a practitioner who is licensed (by state, or federally) to administer/dispense opioid drugs. A pharmacist, registered nurse, or licensed nurse practitioner may also administer/dispense opioid treatment medications under the supervision of a licensed practitioner. More recent studies illustrated improved outcomes through a multidisciplinary approach, while similar successes are shown through delivery models led and managed by nurses or pharmacists under protocol. Additionally, some methadone clinics can provide oversight of treatment, observed dosing, consultation services, urine drug test, naloxone distribution, mental health services, primary care services, and HIV and HCV services. \n\nAlthough not required by regulation at this time in the United States, people are usually encouraged to attempt other types of treatment methods prior to entering methadone treatment programs. Since its use beginning in the 1960s, methadone is still the preferred choice of treatment at the clinics, and is often part of other protocols.The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) provides the protocol of how to treat addiction with recommended options including medication assisted treatment, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), and medical detox. Other than methadone, newer medications with fewer side effects including buprenorphine and naltrexone have been introduced which are non-addictive, relieve drug cravings, block opioid effects, and avoid physical dependence. CBT is an individualized treatment plan that allow therapists to explore patterns of maladaptive substance use to help generate alternative behavior skills. Medical detox ensures safety and comfort by providing long-term monitoring until the symptoms of withdrawals are over. \n\nAn important part of treatment for addiction is counseling. Methadone clinics are only for recovering addicts from opioids. Clinics require attendance at counseling groups as well as individual counseling contacts. It is generally accepted that the more intensive the counseling contacts the individual is willing to submit to, the higher the success rate of the program.\nAlso, an integral part of counseling is on preventing the exposure and transmission of HIV. Clinics should be able to provide or refer patients to various services: community resources, vocational rehabilitation, education, employment, and prenatal-care. There is no set guideline for duration of methadone treatment, however, longer treatments are associated with better outcomes. Patients receiving methadone treatment in a closed setting should be assisted when transferring to a community-based setting. Patients who voluntarily decide to stop methadone treatment should speak to their provider to discuss why they want to stop and other treatment options.\n\nWhile methadone clinics are generally considered to be effective treatment options for patients addicted to opioids, especially when other interventions have failed, there is controversy surrounding the placement of methadone clinics. There is a perception that the presence of the clinics attracts crime to surrounding areas. However, one study by the University of Maryland School of Medicine found that is not the case, crime rates do not increase when a methadone clinic is opened. A 2004 GAO study notes that placement of clinics can impede recovery and exacerbate relapse: \n\n“Although these clinics are intended to help those in need of rehabilitation, patients who seek treatment must navigate their way to and from the clinics in an environment in which illegal sales of narcotics are daily occurrences. The efforts of patients who are seeking rehabilitation, and clinic professionals who serve them, are significantly undermined by this criminal activity that surrounds them.\" \n\nBetween 70-90% of patients who discontinue methadone maintenance will relapse. The high relapse rate may be partially due to the severity of cases seen at methadone clinics, as well as the long-term effects of opioid use. Some patients will be on methadone for the rest of their lives, which generates criticism regarding the effectiveness of the clinics. Supporters argue that the clinics aim not just to eliminate narcotic addictions, but also to help people function in their lives.\n\nMethadone clinics may decrease the use of emergency rooms by patients addicted to opioids\nAccording to a 2009 Cochrane review, methadone maintenance treatments decreased the likelihood that heroin dependent patients would use heroin, but did not change crime or mortality rates.\n"}
{"id": "24234168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24234168", "title": "Ministry of Health and Medical Education", "text": "Ministry of Health and Medical Education\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MOHME) has executive responsibility for health and medical education within the Iranian government. The MOHME comprises five departments headed by deputy ministers:\n\nIran's health system is highly centralized, and almost all decisions regarding general goals, policies and allocation of resources are made at the central level by MOHME. The Ministry has the legal authority to oversee, license and regulate the activities of the private health sector.\n\nAn elaborate system of health network provides Primary Health Care (PHC) to the vast majority of the Iranian public. MOHME owns and runs Iran's largest health care delivery network of health establishments and medical schools. MOHME is in charge of provision of healthcare services through its network, medical insurance, medical education, supervision and regulation of the healthcare system in the country, policymaking, production and distribution of pharmaceuticals, and research and development.\n\nThe Third Socio-economic Development Plan in 1999 authorized MOHME to adopt move towards public–private partnership in health care delivery. According to the 2003 Statistical Centre of Iran census, Iran has 730 medical establishments (hospitals, clinics...) with 110,797 beds in all, of which 488 (77,300 beds) are run by the MOHME, 120 (11,301 beds) are privately owned, and the rest belong to other organisations, such as the Social Security Organization of Iran (SSO). According to the World Health Organization, private hospitals also do not prefer to contract with the Ministry of Health and Medical Education, because of low tariffs, extra paperwork and delays in payment.\n\nSince the 1979 revolution, Iran has adopted a full generic-based National Drug Policy (NDP), with local production of essential drugs and vaccines as one of the main goals. MOHME has a mission to provide access to sufficient quantities of safe, effective and high quality medicines that are affordable for the entire population.\n\nMOHME is the main stakeholder of pharmaceutical affairs in the country. However, the Social Security Investment Co. (SSIC), Iran's largest holding company, which owns and controls 22 pharmaceutical manufacturing companies with a 40% share of total pharmaceutical production in Iran, is affiliated to the Ministry of Welfare.\n\nIn 2006, 55 pharmaceutical companies in Iran produce more than 96 percent (quantitatively) of medicines on the market, worth $1.2 billion annually in a total market worth $1.87 billion (2008) and $3.65bn by 2013 (projected). Although over 85 percent of the population use an insurance system to reimburse their drug expenses, the government heavily subsidises pharmaceutical production/importation.\n\nThe MOHME Department of Medical Equipment supervises imports of medical equipment, its import and distribution is mostly handled by the private sector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45418326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45418326", "title": "Modified Ashworth scale", "text": "Modified Ashworth scale\n\nThe Modified Ashworth scale (MAS) measures resistance during passive soft-tissue stretching and is used as a simple measure of spasticity.\nScoring (taken from Bohannon and Smith, 1987):\n\nhttp://www.rehabmeasures.org/Lists/RehabMeasures/PrintView.aspx?ID=902\n"}
{"id": "22706020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22706020", "title": "Montreal School for the Deaf", "text": "Montreal School for the Deaf\n\nThe Montreal Oral School for the Deaf (MOSD) is a provincial school in Westmount, Quebec, Canada with programs serving deaf and hard-of-hearing students. The school was founded in 1950.\n\nThe school has a preschool day program, closed classrooms for elementary school children, and itinerant support for students of all ages mainstreamed into regular hearing classrooms.\n\nThe mission of the Montreal Oral School for the Deaf (MOSD) is to provide habilitation and education for children with hearing loss from infancy through to early adulthood.\n"}
{"id": "32018832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32018832", "title": "Nuska", "text": "Nuska\n\nNuska (Assyrian: nusku, also En-Šadibdib or Umun-Šazedib) was the vizier of the chief Sumerian god Enlil. He is also described as a scribe who records events, and a boatman who takes Enlil to his future wife, Ninlil. His shrine was recorded to be in the Ekur.\n\nLater, In Babylonia and Assyria, he became the light and fire god, indistinguishable from Girru (formerly Gibil).\n\nIn Babylonia and Assyria Nuska is the symbol of the heavenly as well as of the terrestrial fire. As the former he is the son of Anu, the god of heaven, but he is likewise associated with Enlil of Nippur as the god of the earth and regarded as a first-born son. A centre of his cult in Assyria was in Harran, where, because of the predominance of the moon-cult, he is viewed as the son of the moongod Sin and his wife Ningal, though Nuska was with Enlil when Sin wasn't born yet, and Enlil hadn't married Ninlil—Sin's mother. Nuska is by the side of Ea, the god of water, the great purifier. It is he, therefore, who is called upon to cleanse the sick and suffering from disease, which, induced by the demons, was looked upon as a species of impurity affecting the body.\n\nThe fire-god is also viewed as the patron of the arts and the god of civilization in general, because of the natural association of all human progress with the discovery and use of fire. As among other nations, the fire-god was in the third instance looked upon as the protector of the family. He becomes the mediator between humanity and the gods, since it is through the fire on the altar that the offering is brought into the presence of the gods.\n\nWhile temples and sanctuaries to Nusku-Girru are found in Babylonia and Assyria, he is worshipped more in symbolical form than the other gods.\n\nFor the very reason that his presence is common and universal he is not localized to the same extent as his fellow deities, and, while always enumerated in a list of the great gods, his place in the systematized pantheon is more or less vague. The conceptions connected with Nuska are of distinctly popular origin, as is shown by his prominence in incantations, which represent the popular element in the cult, and it is significant that in the astro-theological system of the Assyrian and Babylonian priests Nusku-Girru is not assigned to any particular place in the heavens.\n\nNuksu is revered in the name of Mutakkil-Nusku (\"he whom Nusku endows with confidence,\") a 12th-century BC king of Assyria.\n\nGibil\n\n"}
{"id": "37161190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37161190", "title": "Nutrition psychology", "text": "Nutrition psychology\n\nNutrition psychology (NP) is the psychological study of how cognitive choices, such as meal decisions, influence nutrition, psychological health, and overall health. Nutrition psychology seeks to understand the relationship between nutritional behavior and mental health/well-being. NP is a sub-field of psychology and more specifically of health psychology. It may be applied to numerous different fields including: psychology, dietetics, nutrition, and marketing. NP is a fairly new field with a brief history that has already started to contribute information and knowledge to psychology. There are two main areas of controversy within nutrition psychology. The first area of controversy is that the topic can be viewed in two different ways. It can be viewed as nutrition affecting psychological functions, or psychological choices and behavior influencing nutrition and health. The second controversy being the defining of what is \"healthy\" or \"normal\" as related to nutrition.\n\nNutrition is defined as, \"the act or process of nourishing or being nourished; \"specifically\": the sum of the processes by which an animal or plant takes in and utilizes food substances\". Psychology is defined as, \"the study of mind and behavior in relation to a particular field of knowledge or activity,\". In this case, the particular field is nutrition. Therefore, nutrition psychology is the study of mind and behavior in relation to the process of taking in and utilizing food.\n\nToday, over one third of American adults are considered \"obese\" and nutrition psychology aims to explain what psychological reasons may be behind this and other health trends. Nutrition psychology looks at the internal psychological effects of why people do what they do, and how they are shaped and influenced by outside stimuli.\n\nNutrition psychology is a field that is still in its early stages of development. With obesity being a continually growing problem in the United States and abroad, nutrition psychology is gaining importance and popularity in society today. As it has grown, nutrition psychology has directly and indirectly influenced research on dieting, food labels, the way food is marketed, food technology, obesity, and the attitude of the public towards food, among other topics.\n\nSome research discusses the idea of \"Food faddism,\" which is loosely defined as, \"the idea that too much weight is put upon the influence of food and diet on overall health and that claims, whether good or bad, are often exaggerated.\". This idea of food choices having extreme consequences is thought to be deeply ingrained into culture, possibly stemming from the story of Adam and Eve eating the forbidden fruit.\n\nIn 1990, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) required that nutrition labels be put on food products in the United States. The thought behind doing so was to provide consumers with the necessary information to make educated decisions about the foods that they purchased. Since that time, nutrition psychologists have done research on how influential these labels are on how consumers choose what foods to buy. These studies have shown mixed results concerning the effects of nutritional labeling. According to the research, the average consumer does tend to read the labels and take the information into consideration, in part because companies have begun producing foods with more health-conscious ingredients. However, many of these potential health benefits are overshadowed by the continuing increase in obesity and deaths related to obesity in the United States over the last few decades.\n\nAs with any industry, marketing plays an important role in the buying and selling of food products. Marketing campaigns for food and beverages are increasingly prevalent today and are larger in scope than ever before, given the resources that large corporations are able to use in the forms of social media and viral marketing. Some researchers claim that the dramatic rise in obesity rates are at least in part, due to an increase in the marketing of food over the past 30 years. New marketing strategies have taken many forms, including changing the packaging of the food or beverage itself, product placement in media, advertisements in schools, increased focus on \"value meals\" with larger portions, and endorsements by athletes or celebrities. Many of these methods increase exposure to younger consumers, who studies show, tend to be more impressionable than adults and whose eating patterns as children can continue long into their adult lives. There are calls for junk food television advertisements to be banned before 9.00 pm to prevent children seeing them.\n\nRecently, food has been a source of technological development. Nutrition psychologists have studied the public's perception of food technology such as genetic modification or additives that may extend the shelf life of food, among other topics. In general, the findings show that the average consumer is more likely to avoid food that is affected by technology and will prefer organic, all-natural choices. These technological effects are often perceived by consumers to pose health risks, even if those claims are not founded in facts.\n\nNutrition psychology has many applications not only related to how and what people eat on a day-to-day basis, but also the ways in which and why they diet and exercise. Fad diets are popular in today's society and they usually play heavily on potential customers' ideals about what they should weigh or look like. These diets usually include an extreme condition or restriction on a person's food intake that supposedly will result in weight loss. People become attracted to these weight loss claims because of the potential ease with which the weight loss can happen. However, these claims are not always founded in scientific research.\n\nThe 2004 documentary film, \"Super Size Me\", directed by and starring Morgan Spurlock focuses on the ways in which the fast food industry in America is influencing how people and especially young children, view nutrition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7463394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7463394", "title": "Palmer notation", "text": "Palmer notation\n\nPalmer notation (named after Ohio dentist Dr. Corydon Palmer) is a dental notation used by dentists to associate information to a specific tooth. Also known as the Military System. Although supposedly superseded by the FDI World Dental Federation notation, it overwhelmingly continues to be the preferred method used by orthodontists, dental students and practitioners in the United Kingdom.\n\nIt was originally termed the Zsigmondy system after the Hungarian dentist Adolf Zsigmondy who developed the idea in 1861, using a Zsigmondy cross to record quadrants of tooth positions. Adult teeth were numbered 1 to 8, and the child primary dentition (also called deciduous, milk or baby teeth) were depicted with a quadrant grid using Roman numerals I, II, III, IV, V to number the teeth from the midline. Palmer changed this to A, B, C, D, E. This makes it less confusing and less prone to errors in interpretation.\n\nThe Palmer notation consists of a symbol (┘└ ┐┌) designating in which quadrant the tooth is found and a number indicating the position from the midline. Adult teeth are numbered 1 to 8, with deciduous (baby) teeth indicated by a letter A to E. Hence the left and right maxillary central incisor would have the same number, \"1\", but the right one would have the symbol, \"┘\", underneath it, while the left one would have, \"└\".\n\nOrientation of the chart is traditionally \"dentist's view\", i.e. patient's right corresponds to notation chart left. The designations \"left\" and \"right\" on the chart, however, nonetheless correspond to the patient's left and right, respectively.\n\nWith the move from written dental notes to electronic records, some difficulty in reproducing the symbols has been encountered.\nOn a standard keyboard 'slash' and 'backslash' may be used as a crude approximation to the symbols with numbers placed before or afterwards; hence 3/ is ┘ and /5 is ┌\n\nDaniel Johnson has put together a Palmer Tooth Notation TrueType font called FreePalmer. It can be downloaded:\nhandwritten Palmer tooth notations is available for download as well \n\nOne advantage of Palmer notation is that it can produce a very graphical image, akin to a 'map' of the dentition; tooth transpositions or edentulous spaces can easily be depicted if desired. It would also be feasible to introduce additional alphabetic characters or other symbols, for example to denote supernumerary teeth or bridge pontics, to which a purely numerical method such as the FDI system does not lend itself easily.\n\nThe Danish dentist Victor Haderup devised a variation of the Palmer notation where the (┘└ ┐┌) symbols are replaced by plus/minus signs, which can either be placed in front or behind the number. A plus (+) indicates upper position while minus (-) indicates lower. When the sign is in front of the number, it indicates left while after it indicates right. For instance -6 indicates the 6th lower left tooth, i.e. first mandibular molar.\n\n"}
{"id": "7339649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7339649", "title": "Preventive action", "text": "Preventive action\n\nA preventive action is a change implemented to address a weakness in a management system that is not yet responsible for causing nonconforming product or service.\n\nCandidates for preventive action generally result from suggestions from customers or participants in the process but preventive action is a proactive process to identify opportunities for improvement rather than a simple reaction to identified problems or complaints. Apart from the review of the operational procedures, the preventive action might involve analysis of data, including trend and risk analyses and proficiency-testing results.\n\nThe focus for preventive actions is to avoid creating nonconformances, but also commonly includes improvements in efficiency. Preventive actions can address technical requirements related to the product or service supplied or to the internal management system.\n\nMany organizations require that when opportunities to improve are identified or if preventive action is required, action plans are developed, implemented and monitored to reduce the likelihood of nonconformities and to take advantage of the opportunities for improvement. Additionally, a thorough preventive action process will include the application of controls to ensure that the preventive actions are effective.\n\nIn some settings, corrective action is used as an encompassing term that includes remedial actions, corrective actions and preventive actions.\n\nPreventive actions rely upon on the consequences of change. Once changed, inevitably, risks should be taken into consideration. In this case preventive actions aim to minimize or, where possible, eliminate the risks.\n\nRisks arise when little is known and understood about a particular situation. The chances of risk are minimized whilst one has better knowledge of the opportunities and consequences that could follow a situation. In order to reduce risk, a full analysis of potential best and worst results is required. Before taking into consideration any plan, people should be aware of the consequences of both success and failure. Not only the internal aspects - capability, expertise and willingness of staff- but also the external aspects of an organisation - stakeholders, customers, clients - should be assessed.\n\nStrategic risk management works with defining an organisation's approach to risk in terms of condition, attitudes and expertise. It identifies the possible areas of risk and assures that the proper approach is used. Then operational risk management will insure that steps for minimizing or eliminating the risk are followed. A strategic approach of the risk management includes studying the environment and being aware of the issues that must be considered in any situation.\n\nRisks can occur due to a range of unexpected possible and potential events outside of the organisation's control, such as: political instability, change in currency, changes of the weather which could lead to a change in customer behavior, etc.\n\nTherefore, in an organisation it is important to know and understand what events could take place, where and why. So, managers should prioritize some steps of preventive actions in order to anticipate these kind of issues, especially focusing more on:\n\"Patterns of behavior\" relates to the morale and motivation of people.The effects of human behavior (such as victimization, bullying, harassment and discrimination) could affect confidence, weakening the relationships meant to lead to performance.\n\nAccidents could happen anytime and anywhere. Thus, an organisation has to assure that the accidents are kept to a minimal level. In this situation preventive actions should focus more on the nature and quality of the working environment, safety aspects and technology.\n\nSingle events and errors are very hard to be managed and impossible to be eliminated. The risk should be kept at a minimum through supervision systems, regular inspections and procedures.\n\nIn order to perform a change, an organisation has to do a forecast, deeply understanding where that event could lead and its consequences. Thus, the risk of a particular event and its probability of occurring should be clear. Using this information, one can understand and better make future decisions, proposal and initiatives.\n\nPreventive actions differ from one organisation to another. Their number is vast, among them counting:\n\nNowadays, due to fast changes in engineering, there is a large emphasis in the enhancement of safety and security regarding technology. However, in order to avoid some issues, more powerful safety analysis techniques are constantly being developed. As safety and security issues can occur anytime, intentionally or not, more preventive strategies against loss or hacking are enhanced. These actions aim to focus on the possible causes of the problem, rather than solving an already critical situation.\n\nComputer security tries to defend computers by assuring that their networks are not accessed or disrupted. They approach different tactics in order to protect against attackers, creating barriers or lines of defense, through firewalls or encryption. However, losses result also from actions not executed properly (such as human errors) or from system errors among components.\n\nLosses could be prevented through preventive strategies and tactics. Security analysts could find possible attackers, highlighting their reasons, potential and purpose. Owning proper knowledge, security experts could assess their own system and identify the most suitable defense strategy. Tracing is one of the methods used by people in order to find any issue or deficiency in their system.\n\nFocusing first on strategy rather than tactics can be achieved by adopting a new system-theoretic causality model recently developed to provide a more powerful approach to engineering for safety. Causality models used in accidents are either traditional, caused by human errors, or more complex, caused by wrong interaction between components and systems errors.\n\nSTAMP (System-Theoretic Accident Model and Processes) is a model of accident causality used in investigating potential accidents that can occur. In this case, issues are seen as results of inadequate control of the safety components used.\n\nNowadays more powerful systems that analyse safety have been created. STPA (System-Theoretic Process Analysis) uses such techniques, being based on the STAMP model of causality. Once the cause is identified, STPA examines the system, creating a proper scenario that could solve the issue.\n\nRegarding technology, not only the safety and security of computers and isolated devices can be threatened, but also of entire complex information systems. As not all decisions made in an organisation are based on known rules, the analytical manager will examine in details the situation and anticipates potential issues that can occur. However. many decisions could have a great impact on some aspect of the organisation and cannot be easily reversed.\n\nThus, modelling and simulating play the roles of preventive actions, being applied earlier for the design of the process, where real factual data is not available. It is an abstract representation, that includes all aspects of a process so its potential impact could be better analysed. Such a representation before implementing can be done through business process modeling (BPM).\n\nOn one hand, there are indeed the deterministic systems that rely on the input data and are capable of predicting accurate output. On the other hand, there is the probabilistic system as well, which does not forecast with completely accuracy. However, both deterministic and probabilistic systems need some earlier actions that could prevent issues.\n\nAnalysis and design count are among the most important activities done before starting-up a business. During analysing, one gets a better understanding over the potential of the business; a diagrammatic model ensuring the agreement between IT professionals and system users. System design aims to design the way in which the system will work, this being eventually followed by system building.\n\nPreventive healthcare or preventive medicine refers to the measures taken in order to prevent and treat diseases. As there is a wide range of diseases in the world, there is also a wide variety of factors that influence those health disorders, such as environment, genetic and lifestyle. Preventive healthcare relies on the anticipation of the diseases, before they take occur. Among these preventing methods, there are:\nHowever, these traditional healthcare strategies are not the only actions that could prevent health diseases. A very important step is recognizing and being aware of some certain health changes that can turn into real health threats. Examples of minor problems that people usually do not take seriously into consideration are numerous, such as losing involuntary weight, lasting coughs, body changes and others aches and pains. Once with noticing a disorder, people can take action by checking a specialist in order to avoid the situation getting worse.\n\nCrime prevention relies on the actions that defend and fight against criminals and crimes, such as murders, robberies, burglaries, black mail, high jacking or smuggling.\n\nCriminologists focus on preventing the risks that can cause crime rather than reacting to crime that have already occurred.\n\nThere is a great number of techniques used in reducing crime. These could be split up into ones at a large scale, such as strategies implemented by a society or community, and others at a smaller one, such as personal security.\n\nExamples of collective strategies preventing criminality:\nHowever, in most of the cases people tend to rely on their own personal skills and capabilities that could help them in preventing and defending criminal attacks. For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "25467671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25467671", "title": "STDs in the porn industry", "text": "STDs in the porn industry\n\nSTDs in the porn industry deals with the occupational safety and health issue in the sex industry of transmission of sexually transmitted infections (STIs/STDs), especially HIV/AIDS, which became a major cause of concern since the 1980s, especially for pornographic film actors. , there had been twenty-two reported HIV cases in the U.S. pornography industry; roughly half were among men who work in gay films, and the other half were men and women working in heterosexual productions.\n\nBecause pornographic film making involves unsimulated sex, usually without condoms (barebacking), pornographic actors are particularly vulnerable to sexually transmitted diseases including chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, and HIV/AIDS.\n\nAccording to former pornographic actress Shelley Lubben, a 1980s outbreak of HIV led to the death of 27 porn stars between 1985 and 1992, including Wade Nichols (who died in 1985), John Holmes (1988), Marc Stevens (1989), and Al Parker (1992).\n\nWhen Nichols died in 1985, his fellow porn star Ron Jeremy denied that Nichols' death was AIDS-related.\n\nIn February 1986, Holmes was diagnosed as HIV-positive. Six months previously, he had tested negative. During the summer of 1986, Holmes, knowing his HIV status, agreed to perform in two pornographic films to be filmed in Italy, without informing the producers of his HIV status. Performers in one film, \"The Rise and Fall of the Roman Empress\", were Ilona \"Cicciolina\" Staller, who later became a member of the Italian parliament, Tracey Adams, Christoph Clark, and Amber Lynn. Performers in the other film, \"The Devil In Mr. Holmes\", were Adams, Lynn, Karin Schubert, and Marina Hedman. Subsequently, it was revealed that Holmes had consciously chosen not to reveal his HIV status to his producers or co-stars before engaging in unprotected sex for the filming. As his health failed, Holmes disingenuously attributed his condition to colon cancer and first confided that he had AIDS in January 1987. He died from AIDS-related complications on March 13, 1988, aged 43.\n\nStevens died of AIDS in 1989, aged 46. Parker died in 1992 from complications of AIDS, aged 40.\n\nMarc Wallice, a known IV drug user, tested HIV positive in 1998. On April 30, 1998, he was diagnosed by Adult Industry Medical (AIM) as HIV positive. It was alleged that he had hidden his HIV positive status for two years, with rumors that he accomplished this by using fake blood work through several HIV testing cycles to continue working. This speculation has been disputed and investigated using Wallice's tests, but it has not been doubted that during this period Wallice infected seven women on the set: Brooke Ashley, Tricia Devereaux, Caroline, Nena Cherry, Jordan McKnight, Barbara Doll, and Kimberly Jade.\n\nAfter four years of no reported HIV-issues within the industry, in April 2004, AIM diagnosed Darren James as being HIV-positive. It was concluded that James had been infected while engaging in unprotected anal sex with Brazilian actress Bianca Biaggi during a scene for the video \"Split That Booty 2\" in Rio de Janeiro. AIM initiated an urgent search for other potentially infected performers. It was discovered that three actresses who had worked with James shortly after his return to the United States had also become infected. These were Canadians Lara Roxx and Miss Arroyo, and Czech-born Jessica Dee.\n\nThe heterosexual segment of the porn industry voluntarily shut down for 30 days (a 60-day moratorium was originally announced but it was lifted early) while it tried to deal with the situation. Darren James, Jessica Dee, and Lara Roxx were barred from further production of sexually explicit content. About 60 actors who had had contact with James or Roxx were barred from working until HIV tests were completed and they were declared HIV negative. A further estimated 130 actors who had had contact with James were tested and received an HIV-negative result. A total of five actors were diagnosed with the virus by the end of the moratorium: one male and four females, including one transgender woman named Jennifer.\n\nIn June 2009, AIM reported that a female adult entertainer had tested positive, though it was believed that transmission occurred in her private life. LA County Public Health claimed that there had been 16 \"unreported\" HIV cases in the adult film industry. The AIM Healthcare Foundation claimed those cases did not involve actors in production companies that followed their testing protocols and included members of the general public who used AIM Healthcare testing services or individuals attempting to work in the porn industry who never were able to obtain employment in adult films because of their failure to provide proof negative status for HIV or other STD.\n\nOn October 12, 2010, AIM reported that an actor or actress had been infected with HIV. The name and gender of the person was not released to the public. Vivid Entertainment and Wicked Pictures were the first companies to announce a production shutdown. Although Wicked Pictures allow some performers to wear condoms, the company shut down to wait for the quarantine list. Several other porn studios shut down as a preventative measure. At the time, no other performers tested HIV positive.\n\nIn December, the HIV positive performer was identified as Derrick Burts. Burts had worked in both heterosexual and gay pornography. Despite contracting gonorrhea, chlamydia and syphilis, Burts continued taking part in unprotected sex in films before quitting once he was diagnosed as being HIV positive. He was informed by the Adult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation that he had contracted the disease, which according to Burts, he received on a set outside the AIM system, while having oral sex scene with another \"HIV positive male actor\".\n\nIn August 2011, the industry was temporarily shut down because of news of a performer was testing positive for the virus. Diane Duke, executive director of the Free Speech Coalition, confirmed the situation. Production later resumed production when a performer was retested and it came back negative.\n\nIn June 2013, a gay male performer tested positive for HIV in a routine FSC-conducted blood test. The anonymous performer had previously worked exclusively on condom-only movies. FSC determined that the infection did not take place on-set.\n\nIn August 2013, an adult female performer, Cameron Bay, tested HIV positive. In response, FSC organized an industry wide moratorium from August 21 to August 27. On September 4, Rod Daily, Cameron Bay's ex-boyfriend, announced he had also tested HIV positive. Two days later, a third anonymous female performer tested positive prompting FSC to organize a second moratorium from September 6 to September 20. All three infections were found to have taken place off-set. \nRumors surfaced of a fourth HIV positive test during September but they were never substantiated.\n\nIn December 2013, a male porn actor tested HIV positive, leading FSC to halt production for one week. This infection was also determined to have taken place off-set.\n\nThe revelations led to the creation of the Adult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation (AIM Healthcare or AIM) in 1998, which helped set up a monitoring system in the pornographic film industry in the United States, and pornographic film actors were required to be tested for HIV every 30 days.\n\nThe AIM system required all sexual contact to be logged, with positive test results leading to all sexual contacts for the last three to six months being contacted and re-tested. The use of condoms became standard in films featuring homosexual anal sex. Due to accurate and mandatory medical tests, HIV and AIDS cases became rare in the pornographic film industry.\n\nHowever, testing is voluntary (though refusal to be tested can result in the actor not being cast in a sex role) and there is no testing or monitoring of the pornographic film industry in other countries. There have been indications that actors have voluntarily left the industry, at least the industry in the United States, rather than be tested by AIM and have their AIDS and HIV status disclosed.\n\nAIM closed all its operations in May 2011, forcing the industry to look for other mechanisms for supporting and enforcing regular testing. The gap was filled by the Free Speech Coalition, which set up the APHSS system, now known as Performer Availability Screening Services (PASS).\n\nDue to this limited outbreak, the California State government considered regulating the industry. Some proposed to mandate the wearing of condoms during sexually explicit scenes. Industry insiders say this would ruin sales of their wares since the unprotected content is one of the selling points of some of their films. They say the wearing of condoms ruins the sexual fantasies of many viewers. Insiders say that such regulation would force the industry underground, out of California or overseas where it would be more prone to health risks for performers. The non-profit Adult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation (AIM Healthcare) worked with the government, to develop policies that both the industry and the government would find acceptable.\n\nIn the 2012 election voters in Los Angeles were presented with Measure B (\"Safer Sex In the Adult Film Industry Act\") with the following text:\n\nProponents of the measure claimed pornography performers were significantly more likely to acquire HIV than the general population and that they are generally not given health insurance by their employers and so the tax payer would foot the bill for HIV treatment. Opponents claimed it to be a waste of tax dollars because of existing stringent HIV testing protocols and because nobody has contracted HIV on set in the past eight years in the United States.\n\nThe measure passed with 57% voting for and 43% voting against.\n\nThe AIDS Healthcare Foundation tried several times to have California's Department of Industrial Relations, Division of Occupational Safety and Health's Appeals Board force companies in the pornography industry to treat actors and actresses as employees subject to occupational safety and health regulation; in a 2014 case brought against Treasure Island Media an administrative judge found that the company did have to comply with regulations.\n\n"}
{"id": "56469772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56469772", "title": "Sheila Dorothy King", "text": "Sheila Dorothy King\n\nSheila Dorothy King, CD (born 1932) was a Barbadian-born, Jamaican academic and physician. She was the second woman to be appointed as full professor at the University of the West Indies. She was the first woman appointed as a professor in the Faculty of Medicine in 1983, ten years after she was appointed as head of UWI's Microbiology Department. A specialist in infectious disease and viral epidemiology, she advised numerous national, regional and international departments and governmental agencies on such diseases as dengue, influenza, and typhoid. In 1998, she was honored as a Commander of the Order of Distinction.\n\nSheila Dorothy King, known as Dorothy, was born in 1932, in Barbados to Henrietta Adina (née Stuart) and Alfred T. King. She grew up in Barbados and completed her secondary education at Queen's College in Bridgetown, before enrolling in medical school at the University College of the West Indies in Mona, Jamaica. In 1958, King graduated with a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery and on the day of her graduation became engaged to fellow medical student, Hugh Hastings Wynter. The two were assigned to complete their internship at the University College Hospital in the obstetrics and gynecology department. On 28 December 1959, at the chapel on the UWI campus, King and Wynter married.\n\nOver the next four years King worked in various rotations including as Casualty Officer, House Officer in Medicine, House Officer of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Senior House Officer in Paediatrics at the University College Hospital and had two sons, Shaun and David. In 1961, she was appointed as an assistant Lecturer in the Department of Microbiology at UWI. That same year, leaving her children in Jamaica with their grandparents, King relocated to England and enrolled in post-graduate studies at the University of London. She graduated with her Postgraduate Diploma in bacteriology in 1964 and went on to earn her Membership in the Royal College of Pathology at the University of London, before returning home to resume her post at UWI.\n\nBesides her teaching, King conducted research on viral diseases. In 1968, she was involved in a vaccine study to inoculate Jamaican school children at risk for the rubella virus with a weakened strain of live virus. In 1970, King was granted tenure and three years later she was made Head of the Department of Microbiology. Simultaneously, in 1973, she began working as the supervisor for the Ministry of Health’s Typhoid Carrier Surveillance Programme. The following year she was appointed to the advisory board of the Trinidad Virus Laboratory and became an advisor to the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO)'s Committee on Dengue in the Americas. In 1977, a dengue epidemic swept through Jamaica, soon spreading throughout the Caribbean and to the American mainland. King and Dr. Esmie Rose, who headed the Virology Department directed the investigation to identify the virus and develop a plan to control the virus. Their findings were presented at a conference held in Montego Bay between 8–11 May 1978.\n\nKing also made studies of the rotavirus and the role they played in the development of gastroenteritis, typhoid, meningitis, and Hepatitis B and was a prolific publisher and presenter at international conferences on regional infectious disease. From 1981, had additional responsibilities as Director of the Jamaican Influenza Center for the WHO and on the Advisory Board for the Caribbean Epidemiological Center (CAREC). In 1983, after a decade heading the Department of Microbiology, and earning her Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of London, King was made a full professor. The appointment was only the second full professorship ever granted to a woman in UWI's history and was the first time a woman had been elevated to the position in the faculty of medicine. To recognize her achievement, King was awarded the Medal of Appreciation by the Prime Minister that same year. In 1998, she was honored by the government of Jamaica as a Commander in the Order of Distinction and that same year conducted research into a virulent strain of the influenza virus which was prevalent on the island. King retired from UWI in 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44996080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44996080", "title": "Social quality", "text": "Social quality\n\nSocial quality is a way of understanding society which is also relevant for social and public policy. Social quality looks at elements that should constitute a good or decent society. It contributes to the body of work concerned with understanding social progress going beyond GDP, taking into account the work of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions. Whilst most approaches have concentrated on the economics or psychology of well-being, social quality can help understanding the social conditions that enable human flourishing.\n\nThere are four elements shown in the diagram on the right. \"Economic security\" refers to the material conditions that enable people to have a long term perspective on their lives, and their confidence for the future. This can include social policies, such as pensions and social security, that ensure this. It also includes economic conditions that enable people to feel secure because they have enough income to cover their basic needs. \"Social cohesion\" refers to the bonds that link societies together, deriving from the work of Émile Durkheim. Émile Durkheim's work considers the moral and social relationships between members of society and social groups, including factors such as trust in others, trust in social institutions, a sense of identity, a collective consciousness, solidarity and commitment to the common good of society. \"Social inclusion\" refers to the way in which individuals and social groups are included into society, either through employment, networks and family or through access to social support of various kinds, this can come through support from other people or from social policies. Social policies that foster social inclusion, reduce poverty and tackle other forms of social exclusion can be important in this respect. \"Social empowerment\" refers to the conditions that enable people to participate in their society, such as having good health, education and democratic opportunities for participation, such as voting and joining civil society. However, it can also mean the feelings of being empowered, being able to take control of one's circumstances. It derives from the work of Amartya Sen, who suggests that people need to have the capability to be able to do the things that they wish to do.\n\nHowever, the social quality approach is fundamentally relational. As such, it emphasises a complex field of conditional (i), constitutional (ii) and normative factors (iii). These are (i) Socio-Economic Security, Social Cohesion, Social Inclusion, Social Empowerment; (ii) Person/human security, Social Recognition, Social Responsiveness, Personal/human Capacity; and (iii) Social Justice (Equity), Solidarity, Equal Valuation, Human Dignity. On the one hand this rejects the Durkheimian view on society as an independent social fact sui generis; on the other hand it qualifies Sen's approach as social quality is not primarily focusing on the subjective side and individuals within society but on the constitution of society by way of people producing and reproducing their daily life and with this society.\n\nThe idea of social quality began as a European Union project among a group of social scientists, concerned to develop a better way forward for social policies in Europe. Later the concept underwent some fundamental development. Empirically it had been developed amongst others by Pamela Abbott, Claire Wallace and Roger Sapsford, who looked at how the model can be developed empirically in Europe, Eastern Europe, Central Asia, China and Rwanda. They have used a different variation, considering the impact on well being, measured through life satisfaction and human flourishing in order to understand how social quality might work in fostering the well being of people in society. \nThis empirical work had been to a large extent emerging from the work undertaken by colleagues in Asia, in particular by Ka Lin.\nAnother development is by a marked shift towards questions around 'overall sustainability'. Laurent van der Maesen is the main proponent of this strand contends. In a working paper we read that \"international and national (and urban) strategies and policies for development toward 'overall' sustainability not only have to have a strong emphasis on development toward sustainability of cities themselves (internal sustainability) but also – simultaneously – address the development toward sustainability of the cities' surroundings ('Hinterland')\".\n\nA more traditional line is maintained by Peter Herrmann who had been since the end of the 1990s advisor of the then European Foundation, later International Association of Social Quality. He claims that \n\"[w]e have to reconceptualize ... indicators. They are not measurement instruments sui generis. Rather they are instruments to develop an understanding of complex issues and trends. As such they need to be guided by a sound conceptual reflection of what they are looking for\".\nHerrmann is on the one hand reclaiming the methodological and theoretical importance of Social Quality thinking, at least qualifying the empirical orientation. On the other hand, though this does not contradict the orientation on sustainability, Herrmann emphasises the need to reorient debates on \"the kind of economy in place\" instead of maintaining dichotomies, separations and hierarchies between different areas of societal development. This had been elaborated in a book on defining social policy as matter of producing society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34730831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34730831", "title": "St. Vincent's HealthCare", "text": "St. Vincent's HealthCare\n\nSt. Vincent's HealthCare, based in Jacksonville, Florida is a network of three acute-care hospitals, a long-term skilled nursing facility, 30+ primary care centers, nearly a dozen medical laboratories, transportation and prescription services, and a health outreach ministry. St.Vincent's is also an affiliate of Ascension Health.\n\nSt. Vincent's Hospital was founded in 1916 by the Daughters of Charity and named after the 17th century Parisian St. Vincent de Paul, who started the Daughters of Charity in 1633.\n\nThe St. Vincent's HealthCare Foundation is the entity that financially supports the mission of Jacksonville's province of Daughters of Charity. The foundation and network, established in 1982, is dedicated to improving the present and future healthcare needs of the Jacksonville area, and has provided more than $1 million in support every year since its creation.\n\nThe foundation stages fund-raising events throughout the year, including the \"Red Rose Ball\", begun in 1982 and Jacksonville's oldest charity ball. The 2008 event was attended by John Travolta and Kelly Preston, who helped collect over $1 million in donations.\n\nJohn Ash was the celebrity chef at the 10th annual \"Delicious Destinations\" event in 2011. The three-day event attracts over a dozen executive chefs from notable restaurants and resorts around the country to prepare their favorite dishes for donors at the Ponte Vedra Inn and Club.\n\nSt. Vincent's HealthCare Foundation is also a charity recipient of proceeds from The Players Championship, and conducts a two-day charity golf tournament early in the week known as \"The Tradition\".\n\nDuring the 1990s, for-profit health maintenance organizations such as Columbia/HCA captured a large share from non-profit hospitals. With William C. \"Bill\" Mason as CEO, St. Vincent's merged with rival Baptist Health in 1995 to become the dominant healthcare provider in northeast Florida and control rising costs. In 1998, John J Maher became CEO and \"Baptist/St. Vincents Health System\" had a 40% market share and had cut operating costs by $100 million in three years. However, the arrangement didn't last and a demerger occurred, with both groups going separate ways in 2000.\n\nSt. Vincent's HealthCare includes 1,081 beds and 4,700 employees. The network's facilities and programs provide a full spectrum of care.\n\nSt. Vincent's Hospital was begun in 1916 when the Daughters of Charity turned the DeSoto Sanitorium into the third hospital in Jacksonville. The institution grew from 42 beds into the St. Vincent's Medical Center Riverside, with 528 beds. As the largest facility in the group, they offer the most diverse health care services in the system.\n\nSt. Vincent's Medical Center Southside, a 313-bed acute care hospital, was purchased by St. Vincent's HealthCare in 2008 from Mayo Clinic Hospital. The present facility was opened in 1984, but St. Luke's Hospital was begun in 1873 and is the oldest private hospital in Florida.\n\nSt. Catherine Labouré Manor is a chronic care facility on the campus of St. Vincent's Medical Center. The complex contains 240 beds, including a special unit for patients suffering dementia from Alzheimer's disease.\n\nUnlike the typical nursing home, the staff tries to maintain a \"home-like\" atmosphere for the patients, who are called \"residents\". Many services are available in-house for the resident's convenience.\n\nThe \"Semmes Garden\" on the St. Johns River, provides walkways through the landscaped grounds leading to fountains, gazebos, and a rose garden.\n\nSt. Vincent's Primary Care is a network of more than 30 facilities and 80 physicians throughout the Jacksonville metropolitan area, including Clay, Nassau and St. Johns counties. Each is connected to the St. Vincent's Medical Centers.\n\nThere are eleven locations of Consolidated Laboratory Services (Consolidated Labs) in the Jacksonville area, including St. Vincent's Medical Center Riverside and St. Vincent's Medical Center Southside. They process blood and sample testing for all participants in the St. Vincent's HealthCare system and other facilities.\n\nThe network also includes the St. Vincent's Ambulance Service, staffed by certified paramedics and EMTs and a fleet of 20 vans and Advanced Life Support ambulances for both emergency and non-emergency transport.\n\nConsolidated Pharmacy Services and Seton Pharmacies were created to provide prescription drugs and medical equipment to St. Vincent HealthCare clients.\n\nGround was broken in June, 2011 for St. Vincent's Medical Center Clay County, the network's third acute-care hospital that opened in 2013. The 98-bed, 4-story building near Middleburg is expected to cost $110 million, but will be capable of expanding to 250 beds when needed. The company filed a \"certificate of need\" with the \"Agency for Health Care Administration\" in 2005, and it took several years of negotiation to reach a compromise with Memorial Hospital.\n\nIn early 2012, St. Vincent's HealthCare announced name changes for major facilities in their group. St. Vincent's Hospital became \"St. Vincent's Medical Center Riverside\"; St. Luke's Hospital was renamed \"St. Vincent's Medical Center Southside\"; and the new hospital under construction will be known as, \"St. Vincent's Medical Center Clay County\".\n\n\"St. Vincent's Community Health Outreach Ministries\" provides access to healthcare to poor children and families in the Jacksonville area. They sponsor and conduct many activities, including the School Nurse Program, St. Vincent's Mobile Health Outreach, the Seton Center for Women and Infants Health, and the Parish Nurse Ministry.\n\n"}
{"id": "3481900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3481900", "title": "Testicular pain", "text": "Testicular pain\n\nTesticular pain, also known as scrotal pain, occurs when part or all of either one or both testicles hurt. Pain in the scrotum is also often included. Testicular pain may be either short or long duration. \nCauses range from non serious muscular skeletal problems to emergency conditions such as Fournier's gangrene and testicular torsion. The diagnostic approach involves making sure no serious conditions are present. Testing may include ultrasound and blood tests.\nPain management is typically given with definitive management depending on the underlying cause.\n\nTesticular pain is when part or all of either one or both testicles hurt, the pain varies from male to male although it lasts around five minutes to an hour. Pain of the scrotum is often included. It may be either acute, subacute or chronic depending on its duration.\n\nChronic scrotal pain (pain for greater than 3 months) may occur due to a number of underlying conditions. It occurs in 15-19% of men post vasectomy, due to infections such as epididymitis, prostatitis, and orchitis, as well as varicocele, hydrocele, spermatocele, polyarteritis nodosa, testicular torsion, previous surgery and trauma. In 25% of cases the cause is never determined. The pain can persist for a long and indefinite period of time following the vasectomy, in which case it is termed post-vasectomy pain syndrome (PVPS).\n\nThe differential diagnosis of testicular pain is broad and involves conditions from benign to life-threatening. The most common causes of pain in children presenting to the emergency room are testicular torsion (16%), torsion of a testicular appendage (46%), and epididymitis (35%). In adults, the most common cause is epididymitis.\n\nTesticular torsion usually presents with an acute onset of diffuse testicular pain and tenderness of less than 6 hrs of duration. There is often an absent or decreased cremasteric reflex, the testicle is elevated, and often is horizontal. It occurs annually in about 1 in 4000 males before 25 years of age, is most frequent among adolescents ( 65% of cases presenting between 12 – 18 years of age ), and is rare after 35 years of age. Because it can lead to necrosis within a few hours, it is considered a surgical emergency. Another version of this condition is a chronic illness called intermittent testicular torsion (ITT) which is characterized by recurrent rapid acute onset of pain in one testis which will temporarily assume a horizontal or elevated position in the scrotum similar to that of a full torsion followed by eventual spontaneous detortion and rapid solution of pain. Nausea or vomiting may also occur.\n\nEpididymitis occurs when there is inflammation of the epididymis (a curved structure at the back of the testicle). This condition usually presents with gradual onset of varying degrees of pain, and the scrotum may be red, warm and swollen. It is often accompanied by symptoms of a urinary tract infection, fever, and in over half of cases it presents in combination with orchitis. In those between the ages of 14 to 35 it is usually caused by either gonorrhea or chlamydia. In people either older or younger \"E. coli\" is the most common bacterial infection. Treatment involves the use of antibiotics.\n\nFournier's gangrene ( an aggressive and rapidly spreading infection of the perineum ) usually presents with fever and intense pain. It is a rare condition but fatal if not identified and aggressively treated with a combination of surgical debridement and broad spectrum antibiotics.\n\nMany other less common conditions can lead to testicular pain. These include inguinal hernias, injury, hydroceles, and varicoceles among others. Testicular cancer is usually painless. Another potential cause is epididymal hypertension (also known as \"blue balls\").\n\nThe cremaster reflex (elevation of the testicle in response to stroking the upper inner thigh) is typically present in epididymitis but absent in testicular torsion as the testis is already elevated. Prehn's sign ( the relief of pain with elevation ) though a classic physical exam finding has not been found to be reliable in distinguishing torsion from other causes of testicular pain such as epididymitis.\n\nUseful tests that may help in the determination of the cause include a urinalysis (usually normal in testicular torsion). Pyuria and bacteriuria (white blood cells and bacteria in the urine) in patients with acute scrotum suggests an infectious cause such as epididymitis or orchitis and specific testing for gonorrhea and chlamydia should be done. All people with chronic pain should be tested for gonorrhea and chlamydia.\n\nUltrasound is useful if the cause is not certain based on the above measures. If the diagnosis of torsion is certain, imaging should not delay definitive management such as physical maneuvers and surgery.\n"}
{"id": "20927655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20927655", "title": "Timeline of psychiatry", "text": "Timeline of psychiatry\n\nThis is a timeline of the modern development of psychiatry. Related information can be found in the Timeline of psychology and Timeline of psychotherapy articles.\n\nThe Ebers papyrus, one of the most important medical papyri of\nancient Egypt, briefly mentioned clinical depression.\n\n600 B.C., many cities had temples to Asklepios known as an Asklepieion that provided cures for psychosomatic illnesses\n\nGreek physician Hippocrates theorized that physiological abnormalities may be the root of mental disorders.\n\nGreek physician and philosopher Herophilus studied the nervous system and distinguished between sensory nerves and motor nerves.\n\nGreek anatomist Erasistratus studied the brain and distinguished between the cerebrum and cerebellum.\n\nThe first bimaristan was built in Baghdad, followed by several others throughout the Arab world. By the 13th century, they had become large, complex, and divided into several different specialized units. A number of these hospitals contained wards for mentally ill patients.\n\nPersian physician Avicenna recognized \"physiological psychology\" in the treatment of illnesses involving emotions, and developed a system for associating changes in the pulse rate with inner feelings.\n\nBethlehem Royal Hospital in Bishopsgate outside the wall of London, one of the most famous old psychiatric hospitals was founded as a priory of the Order of St. Mary of Bethlem to collect alms for Crusaders; after the English government secularized it, it started admitting mental patients by 1377 (1403?), becoming known as Bedlam Hospital; in 1547 it was acquired by the City of London, operating until 1948; it is now part of the British NHS Foundation Trust.\n\nKing Louis XIV of France founded Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital in Paris for prostitutes and the mentally defective.\n\nEnglish physician Thomas Willis published the anatomical treatise \"De Anima Brutorum\", describing psychology in terms of brain function.\n\nAfter being plagued with guilt over the Salem Witch Trials, influential New England Puritan minister Cotton Mather broke with superstition by advancing physical explanations for mental illnesses over demonic explanations.\n\nEnglish physician William Battie published \"Treatise on Madness\", calling for treatments to be utilized on rich and poor mental patients alike in asylums, helping make psychiatry a respectable profession.\n\nFrench physician Philippe Pinel was appointed to Bicêtre Hospital in south Paris, ordering chains removed from mental patients, and founding Moral Treatment. In 1809 he published the first description of dementia praecox (schizophrenia).\n\nThe York Retreat in England was founded by Quakers, becoming known for humane treatment and serving as a model.\n\nGerman physician Johann Christian Reil coined the term \"psychiatry\".\n\nAmerican physician Benjamin Rush became one of the earliest advocates of humane treatment for the mentally ill with the publication of \"Medical Inquiries and Observations Upon Diseases of the Mind\", the first American textbook on psychiatry.\n\nThe element lithium was first isolated from lithium oxide and described by English chemist William Thomas Brande.\n\nWhat became the Royal College of Psychiatrists, then known as the \"Association of Medical Officers of Asylums and Hospitals for the Insane\", was founded in England, receiving a royal charter in 1926.\n\nThe Association of Medical Superintendents of American Institutions for the Insane (AMSAII), the forerunner of the American Psychiatric Association (APA), was founded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Lunacy Act 1845 and the County Asylums Act 1845 were passed in England and Wales, leading to the setting up of the Lunacy Commission.\n\n1851\n\nDr. Samuel Cartwright, a prominent Louisiana physician and one of the leading authorities in his time on the medical care of Negroes, identified two mental disorders peculiar to slaves: Drapetomia, or the disease causing Negroes to run away; Dysaethesia Aethiopica which proposed a theory for the cause of laziness among slaves. Today, both are considered examples of scientific racism.\n\nFrench physician Bénédict Augustin Morel published \"Traite des Maladies Mentales\" (2 vols.); the 2nd ed. (1860) coined the term \"dementia praecox\" (demence precoce) for patients suffering from \"stupor\" (melancholia).\nIn 1857 he published \"Traité des Dégénérescences\", promoting an understanding of mental illness based upon the theory of Degeneration, which became one of the most influential concepts in psychiatry for the rest of the century.\n\nJosef Breuer published \"Traite Clinique et Therapeutique de L'Hysterie\".\n\nGerman psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin clinically defined \"dementia praecox\", later reformulated as schizophrenia.\n\nSigmund Freud and Josef Breuer of Austria published \"Studies on Hysteria\", based on the case of Bertha Pappenheim (known as Anna O.), developing the Talking Cure; Freud and Breuer later split over Freud's obsession with sex.\n\nThe Kraepelinian dichotomy between affective psychosis and dementia praecox (schizophrenia) was introduced in the 6th edition of Emil Kraepelin's famous \"Lehrbuch\".\n\nOn November 4 Sigmund Freud published \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" (\"Die Tramdeutung\").\n\nRussian neurologist Vladimir Bekhterev discovered the role of the hippocampus in memory.\n\nGerman psychiatrist Alois Alzheimer identified the first case of what later became known as Alzheimer's disease.\n\nSigmund Freud published \"The Psychopathology of Everyday Life\".\n\nSwiss-born psychiatrist Adolf Meyer became director of the New York State Psychiatric Institute, influencing American psychiatry with his \"common sense\" approach which included keeping detailed patient records; he coined the term \"mental hygiene\".\n\nFrench psychologists Alfred Binet and Theodore Simon created the Binet-Simon Scale to assess intellectual ability, marking the start of standardized psychological testing.\n\nRussian physiologist Ivan Pavlov published the first Conditioning studies.\n\nThe term \"Schizophrenia\" was coined by Swiss psychiatrist Paul Eugen Bleuler.\n\nIn September Sigmund Freud visited Clark University, winning over the U.S. psychiatric establishment.\n\nSigmund Freud founded the International Psychoanalytical Association (IPA), with Carl Jung as the first president, and Otto Rank as the first secretary.\n\nBoris Sidis opened the Sidis Psychotherapeutic Institute (a private hospital) at Maplewood Farms in Portsmouth, NH for the treatment of nervous patients using the latest scientific methods.\n\nAlfred Adler left Freud's Psychoanalytic Group to form his own school of thought, accusing Freud of overemphasizing sexuality and basing his theory on his own childhood.\n\nThe American Psychoanalytic Association (APsaA) was founded.\n\nThe British Psychoanalytical Society was founded by Ernest Jones, who became Freud's biographer.\n\nCiting Freud's inability to acknowledge religion and spirituality, Carl Jung split and developed his own theories; his new school of thought became known as Analytical Psychology.\n\nJacob L. Moreno pioneered Group Psychotherapy methods in Vienna, which emphasized spontaneity and interaction; they later became known as Psychodrama and Sociometry.\n\nSigmund Freud published \"\".\n\nSigmund Freud published \"Introduction to Psychoanalysis\", and \"Mourning and Melancholia\".\n\nSwiss psychiatrist Hermann Rorschach developed the Rorschach Inkblot Test.\n\nSigmund Freud published \"Group Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego\".\n\nGerman pharmacologist Otto Loewi and English neuroscientist Sir Henry Dale discovered Acetylcholine, the first neurotransmitter to be described, winning them the 1936 Nobel Prize.\n\nGerman neuropsychiatrist Hans Berger discovered human Electroencephalography.\n\nOtto Rank published \"The Trauma of Birth\", coining the term \"pre-Oedipal\", causing Freud to break with him.\n\nThe Société Psychanalytique de Paris was founded with the endorsement of Sigmund Freud; the Nazis closed it in 1940.\n\nAustrian psychiatrist Manfred Sakel developed Insulin Shock Therapy as a treatment for psychosis; it was discontinued in the 1970s.\n\nAustrian physician Julius Wagner-Jauregg won the Nobel Prize for his invention of malarial therapy as a treatment for general paralysis of the insane (neurosyphilis). He first initiated the treatment in 1917.\n\nIndian Association for Mental Hygiene established.\n\nHungarian psychiatrist Sándor Ferenczi published a paper claiming that patient accounts of childhood sexual abuse are true, providing a psychological explanation, causing Freud to break with him.\n\nThe Indian division of the Royal Medico-Psychological Association was formed due to the efforts of Dr. Banarasi Das.\n\nItalian neurologist Ugo Cerletti and Italian psychiatrist Dr. Lucio Bini discovered Electroconvulsive Therapy.\n\nSwiss psychiatrist Ludwig Binswanger founded Existential Therapy.\n\nThe Controversial Discussions between Sigmund Freud's daughter Anna Freud and Melanie Klein, founder of Object Relations Theory caused the British Psychoanalytical Society to permanently split into three camps.\n\nRitalin (Methylphenidate) was synthesized.\n\nMary Jane Ward published the novel \"The Snake Pit\", which was filmed in 1948, causing reforms in U.S. state psychiatric hospitals.\n\nIndian Psychiatric Society established.\n\nLithium carbonate's ability to stabilize mood highs and lows in bipolar mood disorder (manic depression) was demonstrated by Australian psychiatrist John Cade, becoming the first effective medicine for the treatment of mental illness.\n\nPortuguese neurologist Antonio Moniz won the Nobel Prize for his work on Lobotomy.\n\nThe World Psychiatric Association was founded.\n\nThe first published clinical trial of chlorpromazine which is the first antipsychotic (invented by Henri Laborit, Jean Delay and Pierre Deniker) was conducted at Sainte-Anne Hospital Center in Paris. Known as Largactil in Europe, it was brought to Montreal by Heinz Lehman and named Thorazine.\nThe American Psychiatric Association (APA) published the first Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM); it was revised in 1968, 1980/7, 1994, 2000 and 2013.\n\nThe first monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant iproniazid was discovered.\n\nRussian-born physiologist Nathaniel Kleitman of the U. of Chicago discovered Rapid eye movement sleep (REM), founding modern sleep research.\n\nFrench psychiatrist Jacques Lacan broke with the IPA over his variable-length sessions, and founded the Société Française de Psychanalyse.\n\nJames Olds and Peter Milner of McGill University discovered the brain reward system.\n\nRoger Sperry of Caltech began split-brain research.\n\nOn the recommendation of the Bhore Committee in 1946, the All India Institute of Mental Health was founded, becoming the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) in 1974 at Bangalore.\n\nGregory Bateson, John Weakland, Donald deAvila Jackson, and Jay Haley proposed the double bind theory of schizophrenia, which regards it as stemming from situations where a person receives different or contradictory messages.\n\nThe English translation of \"The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud\" was published in 24 volumes (1956–74).\n\nArvid Carlsson demonstrated that dopamine is a neurotransmitter in the brain.\n\nThe first tricyclic antidepressant (TCA), imipramine was discovered from the pineal gland.\n\nAaron B. Lerner et al. of Yale University isolated the hormone melatonin, which was found to regulate the circadian rhythm.\n\nAaron T. Beck developed cognitive therapy.\n\nThe first benzodiazepine, chlordiazepoxide, under the trade name \"Librium\" was introduced.\n\nProfessor of psychiatry Thomas Szasz publishes The Myth of Mental Illness.\n\nUnited States president John F. Kennedy introduced legislation delegating the National Institute of Mental Health to administer Community Mental Health Centers for those being discharged from state psychiatric hospitals.\n\nMedard Boss founded Daseinsanalysis.\n\nRonald David Laing published \"Sanity, Madness and the Family\", claiming that the roots of schizophrenia lie in the \"family nexus\", where people play dark games with each other.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved lithium for acute mania.\n\nThe United States U.S. Controlled Substances Act was passed, putting LSD, DMT, Psilocybin, Mescaline, and Marijuana on Schedule I (no accepted medical use).\n\nAmerican psychologist David Rosenhan published the Rosenhan experiment, a study challenging the validity of psychiatric diagnoses.\n\nThe American Psychiatric Association declassified homosexuality as a mental disorder.\n\nThe Caucus of Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Members of the American Psychiatric Association was officially founded. A primary function of the organization was to advocate to the APA on LGBT mental health issues. The caucus changed its name to the Association of Gay and Lesbian Psychiatrists in 1985.\n\nThe ICD-9 was published by the WHO.\n\nAndrey Lichko published \"Psychopathies and Accentuations of Character of Teenagers.\n\nTransgender people were officially classified by the American Psychiatric Association as having \"gender identity disorder.\"\n\nThe National Mental Health Programme (NMHP) was launched in India.\n\nThe European Psychiatric Association was founded.\n\nThe Indian Mental Health Act was drafted by the parliament, but it came into effect in all the states andunion territories of India in April 1993. This act replaced the Indian Lunacy Act of 1912, which had earlier replaced the Indian Lunatic Asylum act of 1858.\n\nFluoxetine (trade name \"Prozac\"), the first selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant was released, quickly becoming the most prescribed.\n\nThe American Neuropsychiatric Association was founded.\n\nUse of the \"blood-oxygen-level dependent (BOLD) in MRI first discovered by Dr. Seiji Ogawa\n\nKenneth Kwong successfully applied BOLD to image human brain activities with MRI, and published the findings in 1992.\n\nThe appetite-suppressing hormone leptin was discovered.\n\nU.S. President Bill Clinton signed the Mental Health Parity Act, requiring psychiatric conditions to be considered equal to any other medical or surgical illness by health insurance providers; in 2008 President George W. Bush signed an amended version.\n\nThe No Free Lunch Organization was by Dr. Bob Goodman, an internist from New York.\n\nThe European Brain Council was founded in Brussels.\n\nThe term for schizophrenia in Japan was changed from Seishin-Bunretsu-Byō 精神分裂病 (mind-split-disease) to Tōgō-shitchō-shō 統合失調症 (integration disorder) to reduce stigma. The new name was inspired by the biopsychosocial model; it increased the percentage of patients who were informed of the diagnosis from 37% to 70% over three years.\n\nIn 2009 America's professional association of endocrinologists established best practices for transgender children that included prescribing puberty-suppressing drugs to preteens followed by hormone therapy beginning at about age 16, and in 2012 the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry echoed these recommendations.\n\nThe American Psychiatric Association issued official position statements supporting the care and civil rights of transgender and gender non-conforming individuals.\n\nDSM-5 was published by the American Psychiatric Association. Among other things, it eliminated the term \"gender identity disorder,\" which was considered stigmatizing, instead referring to \"gender dysphoria,\" which focuses attention only on those who feel distressed by their gender identity.\n"}
{"id": "26468653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26468653", "title": "Veterinary public health", "text": "Veterinary public health\n\nVeterinary public health (VPH) is a component of public health that focuses on the application of veterinary science to protect and improve the physical, mental and social well-being of humans. In several countries activities related to VPH are organized by the chief veterinary officer.\n\nConventionally veterinary public health as a topic covers the following areas:\n\nIt is desirable to consider food production as a chain, with animals reared on the farm (pre-harvest) then going for primary processing (harvest), secondary processing and distribution followed by final preparation (all post-harvest). This \"farm to fork\" concept can be easily described by considering a beef animal on a farm going to slaughter at the abattoir, then the hamburger production plant, then being distributed to a supermarket. The hamburger is then sold, taken home, stored, cooked and eaten.\n\nVeterinary public health concerns all aspects of food production chain from controlling epidemic diseases that may impact on agriculture, to ensuring slaughter is conducted safely and humanely, to informing the public on safe ways to store and cook hamburgers.\n\nA zoonosis may be defined as any disease and/or infection which is naturally transmissible between animals and man.\n\nThey are a major public concern. Headlines on issues like avian influenza, BSE (mad cow disease) and salmonella of eggs have dominated the UK newspaper headlines for the last thirty years.\n\nThe picture in developed and developing countries may be quite different as far as zoonoses are concerned. In developed countries the consumer has very little contact with the live animal, limiting transmission from live animals to the general public. In addition food safety is extremely regulated. Despite this food borne disease is still a big problem in developed countries. In the EU in 2006, a total of 175,561 confirmed cases of campylobacteriosis were reported from 21 member states and reported cases will only represent the tip of the iceberg.\n\nVeterinary public health concerns the surveillance and control of zoonoses at many different levels be it via disease control programmes at farm level or wild animals or in the abattoir.\n\nEnvironmental pollutants that arise through the keeping and use of animals may include pollution of the air, land or water. It can arise through animal waste products as well as chemicals that may be used during production (e.g. insecticides, antibiotics, etc.).\n\nIn addition, practising vets will also produce potential environmental contaminants in the form of used needles, syringes, animal tissue and other clinical waste.\n\nAll of these materials have to be dealt with in a safe and controlled way. See the section Environmental Contamination on WikiVet.\n\nThis aspect of veterinary public health deals with a number of ethical issues. Welfare of animals is an ever present issue regardless of the setting, whether it concerns pet animals, production animals or wild animals.\n\nWhere the line that defines acceptable and unacceptable welfare conditions lies is different for different individuals from different countries and cultures, however, it is common for minimum welfare standards to be defined in legislation \n\nOther issues may concern the use of animals in science, not just for experimentation, but the use of transgenic animals (an animals who has had its genome deliberately altered by genetic engineering techniques as opposed to selective breeding) and xenotransplantation (the transplantation of organs or tissues from one species to another) or the emergence of resistance to antimicrobial drugs due to their use in animals \n\n"}
{"id": "21544668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21544668", "title": "Water management in Greater Mexico City", "text": "Water management in Greater Mexico City\n\nGreater Mexico City (\"Zona Metropolitana del Valle de México\"), a metropolitan area with more than 19 million inhabitants including Mexico's capital (\"Distrito Federal\", or DF) with about 9 million inhabitants, faces tremendous water challenges. These include groundwater overexploitation, land subsidence, the risk of major flooding, the impacts of increasing urbanization, poor water quality, inefficient water use, a low share of wastewater treatment, health concerns about the reuse of wastewater in agriculture, and limited cost recovery. Overcoming these challenges is complicated by fragmented responsibilities for water management in Greater Mexico City:\n\nGiven the size and political importance of Greater Mexico City, a major flood or a major water supply interruption would be a national political crisis potentially threatening the stability of the federal government. The security of water supply and the functioning of the storm water drainage of the metropolitan area thus are major concerns for the local, state, district and federal governments. In response to the challenges outlined above, the Federal Government, the State of Mexico and the Federal District initiated a US$2.8 billion Water Sustainability Program in 2007.\n\nIn parallel, the government of the Federal District launched a Green Plan which includes water conservation as an important element. Investments envisaged under both plans include an increase in wastewater treatment, the import of groundwater from irrigated areas North of the city where the groundwater table increased due to irrigation with wastewater, the construction of a major new storm water drainage tunnel, increased water imports from an expansion of the energy-intensive Cutzamala system that pumps water up over more than 1000 meters, and the reduction of non-revenue water from 36% to 25%.\n\nThe climate of the Valley of Mexico ranges from a semi-arid belt in the north to a tropical one in the south. The valley receives about of annual rainfall, which is concentrated from June through to September/October with little or no precipitation during the remainder of the year. There are hardly any permanent rivers today. Groundwater is the main water resource in the valley.\n\nThe valley has no natural drainage outlet for the waters that flow from the mountainsides, making the city vulnerable to flooding. It was artificially opened through the use of canals and tunnels starting in the 17th century, entirely draining what used to be Lake Texcoco. The rural southern portion of the Federal District and of the Valley of Mexico, in particular the Sierra Chichinautzin is the most important natural recharge zone for the Mexico City Aquifer due to relatively high levels of precipitation and the high permeability of its basalt rock.\n\nWater resources management. The National Water Commission () is responsible for water resources management in Mexico, including granting of water abstraction and wastewater discharge permits. \n\nWater supply and sanitation. The National Water Commission also supplies bulk water to the Federal District and to parts of Mexico state through the Cutzamala and Lerma systems. \n\nIn Mexico State, the State Water Commission buys bulk water from Conagua, transmits it through its own bulk water infrastructure and sells it on to 57 municipalities with 4.1 million inhabitants. The State Water Commission also monitors water quality, provides technical assistance to municipalities in water disinfection and sewer cleaning, operates wastewater pumping stations and five wastewater treatment plants, empties septic tanks and provides water in tankers in emergency situations. It also provides training and assists municipalities in the establishment of municipal utilities (\"organismos operadores\"). In the 59 municipalities of Mexico State and one municipality of the state of Hidalgo that are part of Greater Mexico City, each municipality is in charge of water supply and sanitation.\n\nThe municipal water utility of Mexico City, \"Sistema de Aguas de la Ciudad de México\" (SACM), is responsible for water supply and sanitation in the Federal District. Its head is appointed by the government of the District.\n\nThe water infrastructure in Greater Mexico City consists of infrastructure for bulk water supply and water distribution (water supply), wastewater collection, storm water collection and wastewater treatment (sanitation), and for irrigation using mainly wastewater.\n\nThe Federal District and State of Mexico combined had 1,089 registered wells at depths of 70 to 200 meters in 1994. This does not include wells operated by the National Water Commission, which are deeper. There are also a large number of non-registered wells, many of which are located in the State of Mexico. Wells are generally located in four different well fields. These are labeled as South (or Xochimilco), Metropolitan, East (or Texcoco region) and North well fields.\n\nBesides these well fields, the bulk water supply infrastructure of Greater Mexico city consists of two systems: Lerma and Cutzamala. The Lerma system, built in the 1940s, transfers 4.8 m/s of water (6% of total water supply to Greater Mexico City) from well fields in the upper basin of the Lerma River in the West to Mexico City. The Cutzamala System built in stages from the late 1970s to the late 1990s to transfer 14.9 m/s (19% of total supply) of water from the Cutzamala River in the Balsas basin in the Southwest to Greater Mexico City for use as drinking water, lifting it over more than 1000 meters.\n\nIt utilizes 7 reservoirs, a 127-km long aqueduct with 21 km of tunnels, 7.5 km open canal, and a water treatment plant. Its cost was US$1.3 billion. While providing Mexico City with over 20% of its water, the Cutzamala system currently operates at only 47% of its total capacity. Both systems are operated by the National Water Commission.\n\nThe water distribution system in the Federal District included nearly 11,000 km of distribution lines and 243 storage tanks with a capacity of 1.5 million cubic meters in 1994. Water from all the separate sources is added to the common distribution system. The Federal District also operates a water transmission line (the \"Acueducto Periférico\") that transports water from the Cutzamala System - entering the distribution system from the west - to the southern and eastern part of the district. The State of Mexico system has nearly 800 km of distribution lines and 32 storage tanks with a capacity of 440,000 cubic meters. As of 2000, there were 2.5 million water connections with 67% of these being domestic and this only accounts for legal connections. It is estimated that there could be another 900,000 illegal connections.\n\nThe State of Mexico operates the 49-km water transmission line (the \"Macrocircuito\") to transport water entering from the west side of the service area (including the imported water from the Cutzamala-Lerma System) to the east side. This transmission line is being upgraded to increase the volume of water taken from the Cutzamala-Lerma system to 7.3 m, and to provide service to the eastern service area. The \"Macrocircuito\" is operated by the State Water Commission.\n\nIt is expected that the dependency of Mexico City on external sources of water will increase. Additionally, the absence of economic compensation mechanisms for those communities from which water is extracted has created conflicts among users and sometimes limits water transferred to the city. One example of this is Mexico City's high use of bottled water. Those that do not have access to water from pipes, pay private vendors from 6 to 25% of their daily salaries. General distrust of tap water quality has led to much of the population purchasing drinking water; Mexico was ranked the third largest consumer of bottled water in 2009.\n\nGreater Mexico City is served by a singled combined sewer system, collecting municipal wastewater, industrial wastewater and storm water. It includes of pipes, 68 pumping stations, numerous dams, lagoons, and regulatory tanks for flow control, 111 km of open canals, 42 km of rivers (rio) used primarily for drainage, and 118 km of underground collectors (interceptor and emisor) and tunnels. The three interceptors are:\n\n\nThe total dry weather flow for Greater Mexico City, which consists mainly of untreated municipal wastewater, was estimated at 44 m/s in 1993. During the rainy season, the region experiences many storms of high intensity and short duration. A single storm can produce up to 70 millimeters (about 3 inches) of rainfall, representing 10 percent of the total annual precipitation. Because of this rainfall pattern, the general drainage system was designed to carry 200 m/s over a 45-hour period\nUntil 1910 the Grand Canal functioned purely by gravity, with an inclination of 19 cm per km. Over the next five decades its inclination declined to 10 cm per km due to land subsidence of 7 meters. Several large pumps were installed in an attempt to maintain its capacity. After heavy floods in 1950 and 1951 it became clear that the Grand Canal could not protect the city any more from flooding and a deep drainage system (\"Drenaje profundo\") was proposed for the first time. Studies on the system began in 1959; its construction began in 1967 and it was completed in 1975. It consists of a deep tunnel, the \"Emisor Central\" with a length of 68 km and a depth of up to 250 m. It today constitutes by far the most important element of the Mexico City drainage system. It was designed for a flow of 170 m/s.\n\nDue to further land settlement the inclination in the Grand Canal became zero by 1990 and negative by 2000. Despite the installation of further pumps, the capacity of the Grand Canal thus declined from 80 m/s in 1975 to 15 m/s in 2008. This in turn affected the \"Emisor Central\", which had been designed to be closed during the dry season for maintenance. Because of the settlement of the grand canal the \"Emisor Central\" was continuously filled with water, making it impossible to inspect it for problems or to maintain it, making maintenance impossible between 1995 and 2008. The tunnel has been damaged by overwork and corrosion of its diameter walls and its capacity has been reduced to 120 m/s. In 2008 it was maintained for the first time in more than 12 years.\n\nOverall, the combined discharge capacity of the system has declined from 280 m/s in 1975 to 165 m/s in 2008. The Nochistongo Channel is the only element of the system whose capacity remains undiminished at 30 m/s.\n\nOnly about 15% of the wastewater collected in Greater Mexico City was treated in 2008, mostly in wastewater treatment plants in Mexico state. Currently, the metropolitan area generates 40 m/s of wastewater; however capacity is only built to handle 10 m/s. The treated wastewater is for local reuse projects such as ground water recharge and agricultural and urban-landscape irrigation. There were 13 wastewater treatment plants in the Federal District and 14 in the State of Mexico service area in 1994, treating a total flow of 2.62 and 1.69 m/s respectively. The untreated portion of the wastewater is discharged to the drainage system, from where it is discharged to the North where it is being reused in irrigated agriculture.\n\nLarge-scale irrigation infrastructure was built in the state of Hidalgo to distribute storm water and wastewater from Mexico City for the irrigation of Alfalfa as the main crop, as well as barley, wheat and corn. Thanks to the nutrients in the sewage, alfalfa yields are more than 100 tons per hectare, compared to the national average of 68-74 tons. Alfalfa is planted year-round, providing 9-10 harvests per planting, and is sold to livestock operations in other states. The infrastructure is operated and maintained by Irrigation districts No. 3 Tula and No. 100 Alfajayucan in the Mezquital Valley. They used to be operated by Conagua, but were transferred to water user associations during the 1990s.\n\nThe cultivated area is 83,000 hectare, about half the size of the U.S. state of Rhode Island. Wastewater has been used there since 1912. The wastewater, whether raw, partially treated or mixed with rainfall, is highly valued by the farmers because of its ability to improve soil quality and because of its nutrient load that allows increased productivity. However, the wastewater is contaminated with pathogenic organisms and toxic chemicals that constitute a health risk for both farmers and consumers of agricultural products.\n\nWater reuse activities in Greater Mexico City officially began in 1984 under the National Program for Efficient Use of Water. This national program included the establishment of new wastewater discharge regulations by the Federal District, and in 1990, provisions were established for an industrial pretreatment program - an important prerequisite for any reclamation and reuse activity. Little information is available on the extent and success of industrial pretreatment programs.\n\nWithin the Federal District service area, in 1995 the 2.62 m/s of treated reused wastewater is distributed as follows:\n\n\nRecreational impoundments. A major wastewater reclamation and reuse scheme exists at Lake Texcoco in conjunction with programs for flood control and dust abatement. Between flooding, the shallow, saline lake bed would dry and produce severe dust storms. In response to this problem, the Texcoco Plan was established in 1971. The solution was to create smaller, more permanent ponds within the large, intermittent lake bed, and to rehabilitate the problem areas for further urban and agricultural expansion through windbreaks, revegetation, agricultural irrigation, and drainage improvements.\n\nThe artificial and more permanent lakes were created using lessons learned from the subsidence problem. High rates of pumping consolidated the clays and lowered the old lake bed by about 4 meters in places. The reuse component of the Texcoco plans include the construction of a facultative lagoon wastewater treatment system, and reclamation of the collected storm water for agricultural irrigation. Thus, the potable water currently used for this purpose will be replaced.\n\nIndustrial reuse. Industries recycle and reuse wastewater generated by themselves or by municipalities. For example, 26 private companies in the Vallejo area initiated a reuse program in 1989 by establishing a for-profit firm, Aguas Industriales de Vallejo. The firm rehabilitated an old municipal wastewater treatment plant and distributes reclaimed water to its shareholder companies at three-quarters of the cost of government supplied potable water.\n\nPilot project for potable reuse. The Federal District constructed two pilot treatment plants in 1983 to study the potential for the advanced wastewater treatment of secondary effluent for potable reuse, and to examine the potential for treating contaminated ground water. Based upon results of the experimental treatment plants, a new treatment facility was constructed, with a capacity of 0.3 m/s, and designed for both ground water treatment and direct potable reuse. The established goal of the reuse project was to blend the reclaimed wastewater with treated ground water and add it directly into the distribution system Currently, the reclaimed wastewater is being used for non-potable purposes.\n\nArtificial ground water recharge is being practiced in Greater Mexico City using both flood water and treated wastewater.\n\nFloodwater. Artificial floodwater recharge has been practiced in the region since 1943, as a method to alleviate flooding rather than as a method to recharge groundwater. Early projects involved runoff retention and surface spreading, channel modification, and infiltration wells. Many of these projects were done in the highly permeable basalt of the upland areas and achieved very high rates of infiltration during periods of heavy rains.\n\nArtificial recharge of floodwater using injection wells was first developed in the Federal District around 1953. Half of the wells were subsequently closed due to operational problems. In 1970, a series of approximately 56 wells was developed for the purposes of disposing of stormwater. These wells were capable of handling up to 35 m/s of water collectively. Although the wells were not designed for recharge purposes, the storm water possibly reached the aquifer.\n\nTreated wastewater. The Texcoco Project mentioned above has carried out studies on indirect potable reuse of reclaimed wastewater through artificial recharge of the aquifer using secondary and advanced treatment of municipal wastewater. The final effluent may be used in either infiltration ponds or injection wells. In a separate program carried out by the Federal District, a pilot plant injected advanced treated water directly into the aquifer at a rate of up to 0.05 m/s. Monitoring wells were used to gauge changes in water quality and pressure levels.\n\nThese include groundwater overexploitation, land subsidence, the risk of major flooding, the impacts of increasing urbanization, poor water quality and intermittent supply, inefficient water use, a low share of wastewater treatment, health concerns about the reuse of wastewater for irrigation, and limited cost recovery for water. Infrastructure coverage in terms of access to a piped water connection or to sanitation, which is used to monitor the Millennium Development Goals for water supply and sanitation, is almost universal in Greater Mexico City and as such does not constitute a challenge.\n\nThe Greater Mexico City's exponential population growth has depleted its groundwater resources. Currently, 4 of the 14 aquifers in the Valley of Mexico basin are overexploited. The per capita rechargeable water available for the Valley of México in 2010 is calculated at 163 m, whereas in 2030, it is predicted that rechargeable water per capita will be 148 m. Recharge of the aquifer is about 31.6 m/s compared to abstraction of 59.5 m/s, resulting in an overdraft of about 28 m/s.\n\nIn 1983 systematic monitoring of the water levels in the aquifer began. Since that time, the average annual declines in ground water levels range from 0.1 to 1.5 meters per year in different zones. At the current rate of depletion, it has been calculated that the estimated volume of storage corresponds to between 200 and 350 times the annual abstraction. However, a simplistic water balance approach does not account for other realities. For example, the aquifer is vulnerable to geologically-induced water quality problems with increasing aquifer depth and consolidation and fracturing of clay layers. Furthermore, the actual volume available in the main aquifer would likely be less than estimated because of probable decreasing porosity with increasing depth. Also, there are practical, economic limits to the depth of pumping.\n\nThe water balance of Greater Mexico is as follows:\n\nMexico City's water balance has a 6 m/second aquifer deficit, which has caused the drying up of the heavily saturated clay of the former Lake Texoco (on which the city rests on) and has led to land subsidence. Land subsidence has been caused by groundwater overexploitation during the last hundred years, and has been up to 9 meters, resulting in damages to buildings, streets, sidewalks, sewers, storm water drains and other infrastructure. The collapse in the central region of the city reached 10m at the end of the 20th century, while in the sub-basin Chalco-Xochimilco, it reached 7m. Current subsidence rates lie between five and 40 cm/year.\n\nThe Mexico Valley Basin has faced droughts, recurrent floods and other hydrological and climate-related hazards since pre-Hispanic and colonial times. It is particularly vulnerable to floods because it is a naturally enclosed basin and because very few natural drainage basins remain, as many of the aquifer system streams and rivers have either dried up or encased and converted into sewers.The hydrological cycle used to be in equilibrium; elevated mixed forests interacted with infiltration, evapotranspiration, and with the system of rivers, seasonal streams and lakes that acted as watersheds, or drainage basins, for precipitation runoff. The rainy season is characterized by high intensity storms of short duration, averaging 800 mm of annual precipitation (although this spreads differently by region: 500 mm in the east and 1000 mm in the west and south). Additionally, the high speed at which abundant surface runoff runs down the valley's slopes poses a big risk for nearby populations. \n\nMost of the floods in the Valley can be explained due to the difference in altitude and the inability of the sewerage system to pump the water out during the rainy season. The Great Canal has lost its gradient due to land subsidence in some parts of the city, losing its discharge capacity from 90 m³/second to 12 m³/second in the last 30 years, and the secondary sewerage network is insufficient to carry high volumes of stormwater and wastewater. This situation has resulted in chronic flooding, on occasions, even of wastewater. Poor neighborhoods located in hillsides are particularly affected by waterborne, diseases, suspension of electricity service and need for piped water supply. A total of 668 floods have been recorded throughout the 1980-2000 period, for which a total of 2,771,284 people have needed immediate assistance (including evacuation and displacement). During this period, some of the municipalities that have had the most floods have been Ecatepec (8.68%), Iztapalapa (7.93%) and Chalco (6.44%), although Tultitlan and Chimalhuacan have been the most affected in terms of Urban growth reduces the permeability of the soil in groundwater recharge areas and increases the risk of flooding. people (36.09% and 32.7%, respectively). \n\nIn low-lying neighborhoods such as Iztapalapa, residents are so accustomed to seeing a fetid sea of sewage rise in the streets that they have built miniature dikes in front of their homes. Flooding is caused both by the sinking together and increased soil impermeability due to urbanization. If the \"Emisor Central\" should fail during the rainy season, modelling shows that a major flood would occur that would inundate the historic center, the Mexico City International Airport and the eastern boroughs of Mexico City.\nIt is estimated that the metropolitan area grows annually by 200 to 300 hectares on recharge areas. With every square meter that is built up, on average 170 liters of annual recharge are lost. Thus, for every hectare built up, the water for 500 families are lost and the pressure on groundwater increases further. \n\nIt is estimated that the amount of rain water that enters the basin (215 m/second) and the amount that evaporates (160 m/second) has remained the same since precolonial times. Nevertheless, the recharge rate has reduced considerably due to deforestation and urban growth. Both elements reduce the permeability of the soil in groundwater recharge areas and increases the risk of flooding. \n\nTo prevent urbanization, a total of 182 Federally Protected Natural Areas (NPA) have been declared throughout the country and cover 90,893,522 hectares. Additionally, state protected areas exists: Mexico City has a total of 23 NPAs, covering a total of 26,047 hectares. The State of Mexico has a total of 88 NPAs, covering a total of 983,984 hectares. Despite of this, the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA) has grown physically and demographically since 1930's. It spreads over a surface of 4,250 km and has a metropolitan population of approximately 21.2 million, concentrating 18% of the country's population. It covers over 16 boroughs of Mexico City and 34 municipalities of State of Mexico.\n\nAdditionally, the growth of the city has created a very large and complex hydraulic system fed from 3 different water bodies (the aquifer of Mexico Valley (70%), Lerma-Balsas river basin (9%) and Cutzemala river basin (21%)), where 40% of the water in the network is lost due leakages and illegal connections. The daily mean water provision is 315 liters/inhabitant/day in Mexico City and 135-195 liters/inhabitant/day in State of Mexico, but it is estimated that in wealthy areas, people use up to 600 liters per capita, while in poor ones, the use is only around 20 liters.\n\nWater quality. Poor water quality is a concern both at the source and at the point of use. Groundwater below Mexico City was initially believed to be protected from contamination by a thick impervious layer. However, this layer has fractured due to land subsidence. Furthermore, the natural upward flow of water in the artesian aquifer has now been reversed due to groundwater depletion. The Groundwater under Mexico City thus is believed to be increasingly vulnerable to contaminants from waste dumps and industrial sites leaching to the aquifer. Furthermore, the deep drainage system penetrates below the clay aquitard in some places into the main aquifer. During periods of heavy rain, waste water seeps out from the deep tunnels into the surrounding subsoil contaminating the aquifer.\n\nUntreated wastewater is also disposed of in surrounding rivers that run to the sea, but this runoff water polluted with untreated waste water is also used for irrigation as farmers have found that the high concentration of nitrogen and phosphorus nutrients effectively fertilize their crops and increase crop yields. Though there is a national norm regulating pollution limits in untreated waste water, CONAGUA reported that the Valley of Mexico basin had 50% heavily contaminated, 25% contaminated, 20.8% acceptable, and only 4.2% excellent water quality based on Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) levels sampled at selected sites.\n\nLeaks in the distribution system are a major cause of concern for drinking water quality. When the soil is permeated by sewage from leaking sewers or from other sources, then leaky pipelines will be infiltrated with contaminated water when pressure is low. According to the Federal District's water quality laboratory, neighborhoods that experience more frequent interruptions in service have poorer quality water compared to neighborhoods with a constant supply. The percent of household tap samples in compliance with the residual chlorine standard (0.2 milligrams/liter) ranged from 87 to 100 percent in tests undertaken in 1993 and was notably low among southeastern counties (Iztapalapa, Tláhuac, and Xochimilco).\n\nHousehold water storage tanks, or \"tinácos\", are common on almost all household rooftops and are used to store water when water pressure in the system is inadequate. In many instances, the tanks are open and not cleaned regularly, permitting the residual chlorine to dissipate and encouraging the growth of microorganisms. The standard levels of chlorine (0.2 milligrams/liters) maintained in the distribution system as it reaches the customer's tap are not sufficient to inactivate microorganisms that may have entered the pipelines.\n\nIntermittent supply. Water supply in many parts of Greater Mexico City is intermittent and pressure is often insufficient. Users thus have to complement their water supply with water bought from tanker trucks, or \"pipas\". Occasionally water supply is cut for several days, as occurred in January 2009 when the water supply from the Cutzamala system had to be reduced cutting water to 5.5 million people for three days.\n\nThis incident was followed by a second supply cut in March 2009, and most recently a third cut in April 2009. This third cut was done in response to alarmingly low levels in the city's water reserves, and reparations being undertaken on the Cutzamala system. It lasted 36 hours, and left over five million city residents without water services. In response, the Mexico City government has had to implement an emergency supply response program, providing water in tanker trucks and bottles to residents of the affected communities.\n\nAs mentioned above, only 15% of the wastewater in Greater Mexico City currently receives treatment. Storm water, untreated municipal wastewater and partially treated industrial wastewater mix with each other and are reused for irrigation on a large scale.\n\nThere are concerns about the health and environmental impacts of the reuse of untreated wastewater from Mexico City for irrigation. Crops to be grown using wastewater are restricted to crops not eaten raw, but these restrictions are difficult to enforce and farmers also grow vegetables using wastewater. According to a study by the International Water Management Institute (IWMI), these risks need to be carefully considered, but the importance of this practice for the livelihoods of countless smallholders must also be taken into account.\n\nStudies on soils irrigated with untreated wastewater for 50 years show an accumulation of heavy metals in the soil, but also that they accumulated in plants to a lower extent. Another study found bacterial contamination of canal water used for bathing and of groundwater used for drinking water supply in the irrigated areas where wastewater was being reused, resulting in a high incidence of diarrhea and skin irriations.\n\nThe Federal District had a level of non-revenue water of 40%, close to the Mexican average, meaning that only 60% of the water pumped into the system is actually being billed for. A large share of non-revenue water is due not to leakage, but to illegal connections. Furthermore, SACM, the water department of the District, has by far the lowest collection efficiency among the 25 major municipalities, with only 40% of all bills being paid. Thus only 24% (60% is being billed, 40% of the bills being paid) of the water pumped into the system is being paid for. The level of non-revenue water in Mexico State is lower, so that the average level in the metropolitan area is 36%.\n\nPer capita water use figures are difficult to compare over time, because sources typically do not indicate if water losses are included in the figures or not. The National Statistical Institute gives water use in the Federal District at 223 liter/day in 1999 (probably after losses), including 164 liter of residential use and 59 liter for industrial and commercial uses. This is only about one third of average water use in the United States, which is 603 liter/capita/day. However, it is still one third higher than water use in France, which is only 165 liter/capita/day.\n\nAnother source gives average per capita water use in 1994 as 364 and 230 liters per day for the Federal District and Mexico State respectively (probably before losses). Authorities attribute the larger per capita use in the Federal District to the fact that the Federal District is more developed and includes more commercial and industrial activity than the State of Mexico. However, lower tariffs and lower metering in the Federal District may also influence the higher water use.\n\nThere is a major gap between the cost of supplying water, a quarter of which is imported through expensive interbasin transfers from the Lerma and Balsas basins, and what is recovered from users. Reasons for low cost recovery include illegal water connections, low tariffs and poor bill collection, in particular in the Federal District.\n\nCost recovery in Mexico State is much higher than in the Federal District. For example, the city of Toluca in Mexico State charges residential users 8.7 pesos (US$0.70)/ m for a consumption of 30 m. This still falls short of the cost of bulk water from the Cutzamala system at nearly 10 pesos (US$0.78)/ m, without taking into account the cost of distributing water and of sanitation. Furthermore, it is estimated than 1/3 of the water connections in the region are informal and therefore this consumption is not billed. Water price is differentiated according to their demand, increasing with higher consumption. Additionally water price was substantially reduced for low consumption users since 1996.\n\nIn 2011 the Federal District charged residential users 15.6 pesos (US$1.25)/ m for the same consumption without any surcharge for sanitation, the fourth-highest among the same municipalities. The remainder is effectively subsidized by the municipal and federal governments. In August 2007 a conflict had erupted between Conagua and the Federal District when Conagua increased the tariff for water supplied through the Cutzamala system and the District refused to accept the increase.\n\nThe human rights commission of the District (CDHDF) warned in summer 2009 that water shortage could cause a \"spiral of violence\" and that low-income families are paying more for water of lower quality and only receive it at certain hours of the day. This situation causes \"social unrest\". In early August 2009, the head of Conagua, José Luis Luege, had announced an \"imminent and indefinite increase in water rationing in the Valley of Mexico and federal district.\" Because water from Cutzamala and Lerma systems, supplying together one quarter of the metropolitan area's water, enters the city from the Northwest where wealthier neighborhoods predominate, water supply tends to be more continuous than in the Southeast of the city where most of the poor live.\n\nMexico has shown limited results in its implementation of socially differentiated price systems and cross-subsidies. There is an important limitation caused by the fact that the poor population does not have formal access to drinking water and is thereby forced to buy drinking water from informal water vendors. The informal market is not affected by the subsidies and furthermore tends to be even more expensive than the formal market price.\n\nIn response to these challenges, two major programs are underway. The National Water Commission has launched a massive US$2.8 billion Water Sustainability Program in 2007 for bulk water supply, drainage and wastewater treatment for the period 2007-2012. In parallel, the government of the Federal District has launched a 15-year Green Plan that also includes drainage and wastewater treatment. In addition it emphasizes water conservation and water reuse through aquifer recharge. Both plans aim at reducing non-revenue water.\n\nIn November 2009, President Felipe Calderón launched a US$2.8 billion Water Sustainability Program for the Valley of Mexico through 2012. The program amplifies the earlier Program for the Sanitation of the Valley of Mexico. Its objectives are to avoid major floods such as the 2007 Tabasco flood, to treat all the wastewater collected, and to reduce groundwater overexploitation.\n\nWater supply and exchange. 14 m/s more water would be mobilized from various sources. The largest of these imports (5 m/s) will consist of groundwater from the Tula Valley North of Greater Mexico, where the groundwater table has increased from many years of irrigation with untreated wastewater, at a cost of US$255 million. The second-largest source of additional water will be mobilized through an exchange of treated wastewater for clean water at present used for irrigation in the Vaso del Christo area (4 m/s), at a cost of 140 million. As part of the \"rehabilitation\" of existing sources, the Cutzamala system is expected to be expanded by 3 m/s, at a cost of US$275 million. Finally, 2 m/s would be made available from the Guadelupe dam in Mexico state at a cost of US$40 million.\n\nStorm water drainage and wastewater treatment. The program foresees the construction of the \"Emisor Oriente\" in parallel to the \"Emisor Central\". In February 2009, Conagua oversaw the purchase of the first of three underground drills from German firm Herrenknecht. The new drill will be used to begin excavations for the tunnel in April 2009. The tunnel will be 62 km long, 7 meters in diameter, and have a capacity of draining 150 \n m/s wastewater. All works on the tunnel system are expected to be completed in September 2012, at an expected cost of MXP 13 billion (approx. USD 1 billion).\n\nOut of the discharge of the Emisor Oriental 23 m/s would be treated in a planned wastewater treatment plant in El Salto in Hidalgo State to deliver water to the Tula Irrigation District. Almost half of the investment (US$1.28 bn) will be for the construction of 6 wastewater treatment plants, the largest of which by far would be the Atotonilco (El Salto) plant. The US$900m contract to finance, build and operate the plant, allegedly the largest wastewater treatment plant in the world, was awarded in 2010 to a consortium led by the Spanish company Acciona. The plant has a nominal treatment capacity of 23 m/second, with an additional capacity for periods of high rainfall of 12 m/second.\n\nThe achievement of the program objective to both supply a growing population with water and to reduce pressure on the aquifer rests on the assumption that leakage will be reduced from 36% in 2005 to 25% in 2030.\n\nFinancing. The program is being financed from the following sources:\n\n\nComplementing the SARP, the Federal District launched in 2007 a 15-year Green Plan (\"Plan Verde\") that aims at the sustainable development of the District along seven major axes, one of which is water. In 2008 it had a budget of US$6 million. Concerning water, it foresees reaching an equilibrium in the aquifer, reducing residential water use, reducing network losses, increasing the reuse and the treatment of wastewater, and the creation of parks around the lakes Tláhuac and Xochimilco.\n\nMore specifically, it foresees increased aquifer recharge through changes in land use and recharge wells; the metering of all users by 2010 and making all users pay for water; identify and regularize illegal connections; the construction of tertiary wastewater treatment plants for the injection of treated wastewater into the aquifer. The Plan is expected to relieve pressure on the aquifer by 6.8 m/s, including 3.3 m/s by reducing leakage, 1 m/s through water conservation and 2.5 m/s by recharging groundwater with treated wastewater.\n\nThese measures together, if successful, would reduce groundwater abstraction in Greater Mexico by 10% and the overdraft by 25%. They would still fall short from establishing an equilibrium between abstraction and recharge.\n\nIn mid-2009 the finance chief of the Federal District, Mario Delgado, and the director general of the District's water company SACM announced that from mid-2010 onwards the District intends to enhance the participation of the private sector in water supply through concessions, under which the concessionnaires would buy bulk water and distribute it, thus providing an incentive to reduce non-revenue water. A total of four concession covering 11 of the District's 16 \"delegaciones\" would be bid out. The concessions would replace the existing four service contracts for metering and billing.\n\nIn 2003, the Water Law was enacted in Mexico City. It mandates that new building constructions accommodate practices of rainwater harvesting and promotes this practice in previous buildings. It also states that in certain zones (Zone 1 and 2, according to the Construction Regulation of Mexico City), it is also obligatory that buildings have a stormwater harvest and recharge system, especially if near green areas, to promote infiltration. Finally, it also states that recreational or free areas must be covered with permeable materials.\n\nPast responses to the water challenges facing Greater Mexico City included an ambitious water conservation campaign initiated in 1989, as well as an increase in metering and a reduction in leakage through private sector participation begun in the early 1990s.\n\nIn 1989, in parallel with the introduction of stricter national water efficiency standards for household appliances, Mexico City launched an ambitious program to replace conventional toilets (using 16 liters) with 6-liter models, replacing 350,000 toilets by 1991. The program also included a large-scale public information campaign and an increase in water tariffs. The impact of the program is difficult to assess, since available figures on water consumption are difficult to compare over the years, because it is not clear whether they include water losses or not and whether they refer only to residential consumption or total consumption.\n\nManuel Camacho Solís, the Head of Government of the Federal District from 1988 to 1997 who was appointed by President Carlos Salinas (PRI), led the process of private sector participation in water supply in Mexico City in the early 1990s. At that time water revenues were extremely low, there was no functioning customer database, virtually no metering, and low bill collection efficiency. At least 22% of customers did not receive bills at all, partly because water connections were carried out by one department and billing by another which did not receive any information about water connections from the former.\n\nIn November 1992 bids were launched, in March 1993 the results were announced and in November 10-year service contracts were signed with four firms, each for one block of the capital:\n\nThe process of private sector participation foresaw three phases: \n\nThe city remained in charge of the water production, treatment and main distribution infrastructure, as well as some aspects of collection and the sanitation infrastructure. It also set water tarirfs. The first two phases were successful. Under the contracts the number of metered connections increased from virtually none in 1994 to up to 1,264,500 in 2002, reaching more than 90% of all users. The third phase, however, was less successful.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1998 the amount billed increased by almost 30% in real terms. But the amount collected stagnated, since private operators were not in charge of bill collection. Collection efficiency actually declined from 84% to 69% The service itself remained unchanged in terms of intermittency of supply and water quality, since these aspects were not part of the contracts. Tariffs and cost recovery also remained unchanged, with revenues covering less than 75% of operating costs. The third phase of turning over increased responsibility to the private sector was abandoned after the PRD won elections in 1997 and renegotiated the contracts.\n\nThe PRD mayor Andrés Manuel López Obrador (2000–2005) renewed the contracts in 2004 for another five years. His successor Alejandro Encinas Rodríguez initially announced that the District would terminate the contracts even before they expired, but his successor Marcelo Ebrard actually extended them for another year until mid-2010.\n\nIn 1996 the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) approved a US$365 million loan for the Valley of Mexico Sanitation Project, in parallel with a loan of US$410 million by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan. The IDB project, which closed in 2005, foresaw the construction of 4 wastewater treatment plants with a total capacity of 74.5 m/s as well as the rehabilitation of drainage systems.\n\nCecilia Tortajada: Water Management in Mexico City Metropolitan Area, in: International Journal of Water Resources Development, Vol. 22, No. 2, p. 353-376, June 2006, Third World Centre for Water Management, Mexico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8934621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8934621", "title": "Water restrictions in Australia", "text": "Water restrictions in Australia\n\nWater restrictions have been enacted in many cities and regions in Australia, which is the Earth's driest inhabited continent, in response to chronic water shortages resulting from the widespread drought. Depending upon the location, these can include restrictions on watering lawns, using sprinkler systems, washing vehicles, hosing pavement, refilling swimming pools, etc. Overpopulation, evidence of drying climates, coupled with corresponding reductions in the supply of drinking water has led various state governments to consider alternative water sources to supplement existing sources, and to implement \"water inspectors\" who can issue penalties to those who waste water. \nAs of July 2007, some areas and towns have no water restrictions, including the Northern Territory, Regional Tasmania, Newcastle, Bathurst and Dubbo. There are also a few parts of Australia where the water storage levels are at or close to 100%, such as Taree. Many states describe the different levels of water restrictions in terms of \"stages\": starting at Stage 1, for the least restrictive, going up as far as Stage 8. The highest level reached in the current drought has been stage 7 for Kingaroy. There are different definitions given to each \"stage\" in different States.\n\nThere are presently four stages of temporary water restrictions which can be imposed by ACTEW Corporation:\n\nCanberra was subject to Stage 1 restrictions from 1 November 2005, which were increased to Stage 2 after a year on 1 November 2006. The continuing drought led to a further increase to Stage 3 from 16 December 2006; the restrictions were maintained at Stage 3 throughout 2007 and 2008. From 1 November 2010 Canberra moved to Permanent Water Saving Rules due to heavy rain bringing water storages close to capacity.\n\nThe different classification levels of water restrictions in New South Wales vary widely, and are set by the different authorities responsible for water throughout the state.\n\nThe following Levels have been used by Sydney Water to describe the different stages of water restrictions it has imposed:\n\nFalling dam levels prompted Sydney Water to impose Level 1 water restrictions on the Sydney area from 1 October 2003.\nWhen these restrictions failed to stem the reduction in the city's water supplies as a result of continuing drought, and with dam levels dropping below 50 per cent, Level 2 water restrictions were introduced from 1 June 2004. Further reductions in dam levels to below 40 per cent of capacity led to an increase to Level 3 water restrictions from 1 June 2005. Level 3 water restrictions were in place as of February 2008. Since June 2009, though, Sydney Water replaced water restrictions with Water Wise Rules. The Rules are:\n\nTo deal with its water shortage, New South Wales has followed the same path as Western Australia, announcing a new desalination plant for Sydney to cost $1.3 billion.\n\nSydney Water has imposed fines of $200 for violations of the rules for individuals, $500 for businesses, and $2,200 for water theft. Rules are enforced by Sydney Water staff through random checks.\n\nAs different towns in regional New South Wales take their drinking water from different sources, different levels of water restrictions apply. The levels or stages which apply in certain towns are as follows:\n\nCurrently, no water restrictions apply in Darwin.\n\nSome of the details of the different stages of water restrictions which apply in Queensland for the residential sector are as follows:\n\nAlthough some regions of Queensland have had traditionally high rainfalls, some regions of Queensland have been subject to the toughest water restrictions in place in Australia. The highest level of water restrictions reached the drought was stage 7 for Kingaroy. Toowoomba, Brisbane and South East Queensland reached Level 6 restrictions.\n\nOn 13 May 2005, 13 local councils in southeast Queensland, including those in Brisbane, agreed to impose Stage 1 water restrictions, due to drying dams.\nThese restrictions were increased to Stage 2 from 3 October 2005, which at the time were described as the \"toughest water restrictions in southeast Queensland's history\", except the Gold Coast which had been on Stage 5 restrictions since 2004.\nStage 3 water restrictions were imposed on the region from 13 June 2006 amid projections that water storage levels would drop to 5% within 26 months.\nWater restrictions continued to increase, to Stage 4 from 1 November 2006, stage 5 from 10 April 2007, and up to Stage 6 from 23 November 2007.\n\nThe Queensland Water Commission has relaxed water restrictions, with the introduction of High Level Water restrictions as of 31 July 2008.\n\nOther towns and regions of Queensland are subject to different levels of water restrictions, as set out below:\n\nSource: Queensland Water Restrictions, Queensland Water Commission\n\nThe different levels of residential water restrictions which have been applied to different regions of South Australia by SA Water are as follows:\n\nDifferent water restrictions levels apply to different parts of the state, depending upon the source of drinking water used in that region. SA Water have produced a map showing the current areas of water restrictions.\n\nAdelaide and much of south-eastern South Australia takes its drinking water from the Murray River. Permanent water conservation measures were put into place in this region in 2003,\nand as a result of the most severe drought to hit the region since the 1940s, Level 2 water restrictions were imposed from 22 October 2006 on those areas (including metropolitan Adelaide) which use water from the Murray River.\nEven lower inflows to the Murray River over the course of 2006 led to the even tougher Level 3 water restrictions being imposed on the region from 1 January 2007,\nwhich remain in place.\n\nThe Eyre Peninsula draws most of its drinking water from underground basins,\nwhich progressively became depleted through drought and high consumption, prompting the State Government to introduce water restrictions on the entire region from 6 December 2002, apart from Whyalla. The water restrictions for the peninsula remain in force as of 2008.\n\nConversely, the areas in the south east of the State, south of the town of Keith, are subject to the permanent water conservation measures.\n\nOther areas in the state are not subject to water restrictions. These areas include Murray Mallee, areas north of Port Augusta, Kangaroo Island, Cockburn, Hawker, Melrose, Ororoo, Parachilna, Quorn, Warooka, Wilmington, Terowie, Yunta, Olary and Manna Hill.\n\nThe different levels of residential water restrictions which have been applied to different regions of South Australia by SA Water are as follows:\n\nPermanent Water Conservation Measures Eyre Peninsula Level 2 Level 3 \nReticulation sprinklers: 5pm–10am (6pm–10am in DST) 6pm–8am (8pm–8am in DST) 8pm–8am, 3 days/week Prohibited \nHand-held hose watering and drippers: Any time 1 day/week with trigger nozzle, 6–9am or 5–\n\nUsually, there are no water restrictions for domestic consumption.\n\nPeriodically, however, restrictions will be placed on how water can be used in domestic, commercial or rural areas. Examples of such restrictions are:\n\nOne purpose of such restrictions is to keep the dam levels up and ensure adequate water pressure for the fire department's needs in the event of fires.\n\nThe different stages of water restrictions which apply in different areas of Victoria are based upon the Victorian Uniform Drought Water Restriction Guidelines,\nhowever they have been modified by the inclusion of a \"Stage 3a\", to reduce the likelihood of needing to impose Stage 4 restrictions in metropolitan Melbourne.\n\nThe status of water restrictions in different regions of Victoria is as set out below:\n\nSource: Report and map explaining the restrictions in Victoria as of September 2006 and Water restrictions as of 2010\n\nThe different stages of water restrictions which can currently be applied in Western Australia are as follows:\n\nWater restrictions have been employed in various Western Australian towns when poor rainfall has led to water shortages. For instance, in the summer of 1977-1978, Perth was subject to a total sprinkler ban.\nNewman and Nullagine experienced water restrictions from 1991 and 1992 onwards as the result of drought.\nSimilarly, the resort towns of Yallingup and Dunsborough experienced water restrictions in 1997 during a heatwave,\nand Kalgoorlie-Boulder had temporary water restrictions imposed during 1998 due to shortages in its reservoirs (which contain water pumped through the Goldfields Water Supply Scheme).\n\nA Stage 1 ban on using reticulation sprinklers between 9.00am and 6.00pm was imposed on Perth residents in 1996,\nand remains in place to this day. This was the first water restriction imposed on the state's most populous city since the total sprinkler ban in 1978. From September 2001, users of the Integrated Water Supply Scheme (covering Perth, its surrounds and towns on the Goldfields pipeline) were subject to Stage 4 restrictions, only permitted to use reticulation sprinklers two days per week, according to a roster.\n\nThe town of Northampton in the Mid-West encountered a water shortage in 2006 where its underground aquifer could not meet demand. Stage 5 watering restrictions were imposed,\nand the Water Corporation resorted to carting tankers of water to the town to maintain the supply.\n\nStage 4 water restrictions were imposed in the South-West towns of Bridgetown, Balingup, Boyup Brook, Hester, Kirup, Greenbushes and Mullalyup from 13 October 2006.\n\nOn 1 October 2007, water restrictions were expanded to cover the entire state, including those towns serviced by utilities other than the Water Corporation. Under the new system, all areas of the state in the region south of Kalbarri and Kalgoorlie (including Perth and most of the state's population) which use scheme water are subject to Stage 4 restrictions.\nAreas north of the dividing line are subject to Stage 2 restrictions.\nFurthermore, whereas the water restrictions had previously only restricted the use of mains water to water gardens and lawns by sprinkler, under the new water restrictions unlicensed bore operators in Perth and its surrounds are restricted to watering their gardens three times per week.\nThis was to slow the depletion of underground aquifers from which Perth sources much of its drinking water.\n\nAround November 2013 the water restrictions were removed from the Water Agencies (Water Use) Bylaws 2010 and added to the Water Services Regulations 2013 \n\nEfforts are being made to secure alternative water sources to ease water shortages in the Integrated Water Supply Scheme. Integral to the Government's strategy is the construction of desalination plants to service Perth. One has already been constructed in Kwinana, which supplies 17% of the city's water consumption and is the largest desalination plant in both the Southern and Eastern hemispheres. A second desalination plant near Binningup was completed in 2011. A trial has also been announced to treat wastewater and pump it into underground aquifers to undergo natural filtration as it returns to the dwindling groundwater supply.\n\nThe Australian Bureau of Meteorology collates national statistics (from 2009) for water storage levels and makes them available on their water storage web tool and via a water storage iPhone app.\n\nSources: Water Services Association of Australia, Melbourne Water\n\nWater restrictions have been criticised for hampering the economy and the lifestyles of people. The National Water Commission chief has argued that Australia needs a source of water that is independent of the rainfall. Water desalination is touted as the solution for potentially unlimited water use. Former Australian Environment Minister, Malcolm Turnbull says that it does not make sense to have permanent water restrictions just as there are no electricity restrictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "52140236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52140236", "title": "Zimbabwe Rowing team at the 2016 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Zimbabwe Rowing team at the 2016 Summer Paralympics\n\nThe Zimbabwe Rowing team at the 2016 Summer Paralympics was the first rowing team to represent their country at a Paralympic Games. The team entered the para mixed coxed four finishing last in their event. The team consisted of rowers Margret Bangajena, Michelle Garnett, Takudzwa Gwariro and Previous Wiri and their cox Jessica Davis. Managed by Davis' mother, Rachel Davies, the team captured the imagination of the press due to the unlikely story of the crew's formation and the hardships they faced on reaching the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nRachel Davies, a Canadian sports administrator from Cambridge, Ontario, was assigned to Zimbabwe in 1996 by her employers, Fédération Internationale des Sociétés d'Aviron (FISA), where her role was to improve the sport of rowing in Africa. The following year she married a Zimbabwean, had a family and settled down in the country. In 2012 Davis successfully coached and registered two Zimbabwean rowers for the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Micheen Thornycroft and James Fraser-Mackenzie. When Thornycrofy decided to part company from Davis to train permanently with the South African team, it left Davis with free time to spare, which resulted in a new FISA request. In an attempt to widen the appeal of rowing the International Paralympic Committee assigned four berths for African teams in the rowing program at the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio. Kenya and South Africa had already taken three of the positions, and FISA now asked Davis to put forward a Zimbabwe team for the last slot.\n\nDavis had no experience in adaptive rowing, and Zimbabwe had no program either. With only two months before the Paralympic qualifying camp in Italy, Davis sent out a call on social media for people with disabilities who would be interested in rowing at the Paralympics. Eighteen people responded to her call, meeting at St. George's College, Harare where Davis taught. None had any rowing experience and most could not swim. The candidates had little understanding of competitive rowing, and one sixty year-old applicant arrived in her Sunday best, wearing a shower cap to protect her hair. Overwhelmed by the response, as Davis was expecting only a handful of responders, she decided to assemble a team rather than enter single scull events. Initially Davis was concerned about understanding how adaptive rowers were classified, but fortunately two physiotherapists turned up at the first meet hoping to help out the athletes for \"Olympic trials\", who were able to assess the volunteers. \n\nThe initial meet gave Davis three members of her mixed cox team, but she needed a second male member. Noticing that Takudzwa Gwariro, a fellow PE teacher at the school, walked with a limp, she inquired if he would like to join the team. He accepted, giving the team just three weeks to train together before the trials in Italy. The team's preparations for Italy were far from perfect, training on a dam which was home to crocodiles with having to use antiquated boats. Further problems came after a public transit boycott meant the rowers couldn't travel to the dam.\n\nThe team that travelled to Italy consisted of Takudzwa Gwariro, Margret Bangajena, Previous Wiri, Chipo Zhento and Davis' daughter Jessica as their able-bodied cox. Their chances were almost dashed at the first hurdle after Zhento suffered a seizure. The team was asked to pull-out, but a Cameroon doctor, who knew the shame that would be brought onto Zheno's family if she caused the team to fail, cleared Zhento to compete. Although the team finished second to last, ahead of Japan, they qualified for Rio after being offered a bipartite invitation. After the team returned home Zhento suffered another seizure, and Davis was forced to find a replacement. With only a week before a World Cup race in Poland, an event the team had to compete in to show international competition experience, Michelle Garnett, was drafted in.\n\nAt the Rio Games, Zimbabwe finished sixth from a field of six in the heats, with a time of 4:08.63. In the Final B, they again finished in last place, but Davis stated that she was satisfied with the teams performance considering the limited time they team had to train together.\n\nMargret Bangajena (born 14 May 1977) answered the initial call for rowers, and rows in the bow seat. Bangajena had some experience in parasport having raced in wheelchair marathon events. \n\nMichelle Garnett (born 15 December 1998) was the youngest member of the Zimbabwe team at the Rio Paralympics. At the time of the Games Garnett was a student at Chisipite Senior School.\n\nTakudzwa Gwariro (born 23 January 1996) was the final member recruited to join the initial team for the trials in Italy. A former rugby union player, Gwariro injured his leg in his last year of high school whilst playing the sport, resulting in nerve damage to his right foot which left him with a limp. At the time of the Rio Games he was working as a Physical Education teacher in Harare. At the Games he was given the honour of flag bearer at the opening ceremony. He has ambitions of studying law and attending university outside of Africa.\n\nPrevious Wiri (born 6 June 1987) was one of the athletes who turned up at the initial meet. Rowing from the stroke seat, Wiri had a long background in parasport having played wheelchair basketball and competed in para-swimming and wheelchair marathon events.\n\nJessica Davis (born 2 October 1998) was the team cox, and daughter of head coach Rachel Davis. Davis was the only able-bodied member of the squad and at the time of the Games she was a high school student at Peterhouse Girls' School.\n"}
