{"id": "23617259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23617259", "title": "Benjamin Haldane", "text": "Benjamin Haldane\n\nBenjamin Alfred Haldane (1874-1941) was a Tsimshian professional photographer from Metlakatla, Alaska.\n\nBenjamin Alfred Haldane was born on 15 June 1874 in the village of Metlakatla, British Columbia.\n\nHe was a full-blood member of the Tsimshian tribe, a First Nations people spanning British Columbia and Alaska. At the age of 13, Haldane migrated to the village of Metlakatla, Alaska, located on Annette Island, along with 800 other Tsimshian people. They made the 30-mile journey by canoe, seeking secure land rights and religious freedom with the missionary William Duncan.\n\nHaldane's parents were Matthias (Matthew) Haldane and Caroline Auriol. Haldane married his first wife, Martha Calvert, on 17 November 1896, and together the couple had 11 children. Martha died in 1918. Haldane married again before 1938 to his second wife, Margaret.\n\nHe was a successful merchant and grocer, who served as his village's secretary for 35 years. In 1903, Haldane began teaching music and was respected for his musical abilities throughout southeast Alaska. For 38 years, he was the organist and choir master at the William Duncan Memorial Church and led the Metlakatla Concert Band.\n\nHaldane took up photography in the late 19th century, as did his brother Henry Haldane and Thomas Eaton, also Tsimshian. At the age of 25, in 1899, Haldane opened his own portrait studio.\n\nHe maintained his studio and actively documented the people of his community from the 1890s to approximately 1910. He specialized in portrait photography and his works are carefully composed. They show the Tsimshian at a time of great transition. Families and individuals posed in Western clothing of their day. They are photographed inside with props and backdrops or outside. He photographed events such as weddings or concerts by his marching band. As a community insider, he was able to achieve an intimate look at the Tsimshian people. He was also able to photograph potlatches, outlawed at the time, along the Nass River.\n\nHaldane died on 21 November 1941 from pulmonary tuberculosis. He is buried in Ocean View Cemetery in Metlakatla.\n\nHis photographs have been increasingly exhibited in recent decades. This revived interest in his work was sparked by Dennis Dunne, who rescued 162 original glass plate negatives of Haldane's photographs from the dump on Annette Island in the 1990s.\n\nThe Tongass Historical Museum curated \"Metlakatla: Vintage Photographs\" in 2006, which featured 36 of prints of his photographs. Also in 2006, his work was included in \"Our People, Our Land, Our Images\", an exhibition of indigenous photographers at the C. N. Gorman Museum at the University of California, Davis, curated by Hulleah Tsinhnahjinnie. That shows also traveled to the Burke Museum of Natural History and Culture in Seattle, Washington. in 2007.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1218263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218263", "title": "Charles FitzClarence", "text": "Charles FitzClarence\n\nBrigadier General Charles FitzClarence (8 May 1865 – 12 November 1914) was an Anglo-Irish recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest and most prestigious award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces.\n\nCharles FitzClarence was born in County Kildare, the son of Captain George FitzClarence (15 April 1836 – 24 March 1894) and Maria Henrietta Scott (1841 – 27 July 1912). He had a twin brother named Edward. His paternal grandfather was The 1st Earl of Munster, an illegitimate son of William, Duke of Clarence (later King William IV of the United Kingdom). He joined the Royal Fusiliers in 1886 but his early career was blighted by several bouts of illness and he spent much of his time in administrative and staff roles. In 1899 he volunteered to serve as a Special Service Officer at Mafeking, South Africa and was given the duty of training a squadron of the Protectorate Regiment.\n\nFitzClarence was 34 years old, and a captain in The Royal Fusiliers, British Army, during the Second Boer War when the following deeds took place for which he was awarded the Victoria Cross:\nHis ferocity in battle earned him the enduring nickname 'The Demon'. He served in South Africa until February 1901, at which point he transferred to the newly formed Irish Guards. He passed Staff College in 1904 and succeeded to the command of the 1st Battalion Irish Guards in July 1909. He had a reputation as a forward thinking soldier and took an innovative, albeit demanding, approach to training. It was noted he was \"both loved and feared by his battalion\". At the outbreak of the First World War he was promoted to the rank of Brigadier General and was given command of the newly formed 29th Brigade.\n\nOn 27 September 1914 he replaced Brigadier-General Ivor Maxse as commander of 1st Guards' Brigade with the British Expeditionary Force. He held this command until he was killed in action on 12 November 1914. \n\nOn 4 October 1914, whilst 1st Guards' Brigade was holding trenches opposite the German line at the River Aisne, he ordered the Coldstream Guards to carry out a night time raid against a German position known as 'Fish Hook Trench'. This was the first British trench raid of the First World War. The raid was led by Second Lieutenant Merton Beckwith-Smith and was a striking local success. \n\nIn October, FitzClarence had played a significant part in the First Battle of Ypres. Captain Valentine Williams, MC, writing in \"Blackwood's Magazine\", described the action at Gheluvelt thus: \"The Coldstream and Scots Guards' battalions of FitzClarence's brigade, in trenches north of Gheluvelt, suffered terribly in a German attack, delivered in a dense mist on the morning of the 27th along the Menin road. The odds against the British were crushing, for on that day some 24,000 Germans were arrayed against about 5,000 exhausted British troops. In two days the Scots Guards lost 10 officers and 370 men killed and wounded. But the result of the day's fighting was that the British line stood firm and unbroken, while the Germans had sustained enormous losses\". Sir John French, in his Despatch published on 30 November 1914, described the fighting at this time as: \"Perhaps the most important and decisive attack (except that of the Prussian Guard on the 10th November) made against the 1st Corps during the whole of its arduous experiences in the neighbourhood of Ypres.\" \n\n\"Blackwood's Magazine\" for August 1917 carries an article describing FitzClarence's part. It was he who gave the order for the vital counter-attack of 31 October 1914. He \"rallied the troops and directed the successful onslaught\". Lt Col. E. B. Hankey, involved in the attack, said of FitzClarence: \" ... by shoving us in at the time and place he did, the General saved the day.\" \n\nOn the morning of 12 November the Prussian Guard attacked British troops along the Menin Road. Thirteen battalions of them came on, but only in three places did the Prussian Guard break through. On the following morning FitzClarence counter-attacked. The General himself decided to show his old regiment the way, and paid for the decision with his life. FitzClarence fell dead, and neither FitzClarence himself, nor Sir John French knew how well he had served his country at Gheluvelt. \n\nIn his Despatch of 20 November 1914, Sir John French said: \"Another officer whose name was particularly mentioned to me was Brigadier-General FitzClarence, VC, commanding the 1st Guards' Brigade. He was unfortunately killed in the night attack of the 11th November. His loss will be severely felt\".\n\nHis most recent biographer, Spencer Jones, describes FitzClarence as exemplifying \"...the best aspects of the post-Boer War [British] officer class\" due to his \"courage, professionalism, natural leadership, and willingness to act upon his own initiative.\"\n\nHe was killed in action, aged 49, at Polygon Wood, Zonnebeke, Belgium, on 12 November 1914 whilst commanding the 1st (Guards) Brigade.\n\nHe is the highest-ranking officer inscribed on the Menin Gate Memorial in Ypres, commemorating those with no known grave.\n\nHis VC is in the Lord Ashcroft VC Gallery in the Imperial War Museum, London.\n\nOn 20 April 1898, at the Citadel Church, Cairo, he married Violet Spencer-Churchill (13 June 1864 – 22 December 1941), daughter of Lord Alfred Spencer-Churchill and a granddaughter of the sixth Duke of Marlborough. The couple had two children:\n\nListed in order of publication year \n\n"}
{"id": "45447409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45447409", "title": "Chelsea Islan", "text": "Chelsea Islan\n\nChelsea Elizabeth Islan (born 2 June 1995) is an Indonesian actress. She gained public recognition in NET TV sitcom \"Tetangga Masa Gitu\". She made her film debut in drama film \"\" (2013), later continued her acting career in several films such as \"Street Society\" (2014), \"\" (2014), \"Di Balik 98\" (2015), and \"Guru Bangsa: Tjokroaminoto\" (2015). In 2017, she was appointed as ASEAN Parade ambassador, along with Indonesian actor Nicholas Saputra.\n\nBorn in Washington DC to an American mother and an Indonesian father, Chelsea moved to Jakarta to start elementary school and stayed until she finished high school in Mentari International School. Before entering the cinematic industry, she pursued theater world. When she was an elementary student, Chelsea got a role in the theater show for the first time in \"Once on This Island\", which is based on the mythology of Greek Gods. In 2013, she debuted at the professional film industry while playing a role as Annalise in \"\".\n\nShe is a Catholic.\nAs of October 2017, she is in a relationship with Daffa Wardhana, a son of Indonesian senior actress Marini Zumarnis.\n\nOn the 88th anniversary of the Hari Sumpah Pemuda (Youth Pledge), on 28 October 2016, Chelsea and her friends established a youth community called \"Youth of Indonesia\". The community activities are encouraging young people to compete and protect and care for pluralism and other national values. \"We should be proud of Indonesia and have to contribute to Indonesia. The younger generation is the agent of change for a nation, and this is where we established Youth of Indonesia,\" said Chelsea who is the President of Youth of Indonesia. For her contribution to the youth community, she was rewarded for Innovative Young Leader in the event 2017 Southeast Asia Leaders Summit which was held at Kompleks Parlemen, Senayan, Central Jakarta, in April 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "50694218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50694218", "title": "Darryl Glenn", "text": "Darryl Glenn\n\nDarryl LeMon Glenn (born October 10, 1965) is an American politician and lawyer. He was the nominee of the Republican Party in the 2016 United States Senate election in Colorado. He lost to Democratic incumbent Michael Bennet.\n\nGlenn was formerly a U.S. Air Force officer, retiring as a lieutenant colonel after 21 years of combined active and reserve duty. He was elected to the Colorado Springs City Council in 2003 and in 2010 was elected as District 1 county commissioner in El Paso County. He was re-elected as commissioner in 2014.\n\nGlenn unsuccessfully ran for Colorado's 5th congressional district in 2018, against incumbent Doug Lamborn.\n"}
{"id": "13840654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13840654", "title": "David-Zvi Pinkas", "text": "David-Zvi Pinkas\n\nDavid-Zvi Pinkas (, 5 December 1895 – 14 August 1952) was a Zionist activist and Israeli politician. A signatory of the Israeli declaration of independence, he was the country's third Minister of Transport.\n\nBorn in Sopron in Austria-Hungary (today in Hungary), Pinkas attended high school in Vienna, before studying at a yeshiva in Freiburg and law at the University of Vienna. He was involved in Zionist youth groups, and was one of the leaders of Young Mizrachi in Vienna and one of the founders of the Yeshuran movement.\n\nIn 1923 he was a delegate to the 13th Zionist congress, and two years later immigrated to Mandate Palestine. He became director of Bank Mizrahi in 1932, the same year in which he was elected to Tel Aviv city council. Three years later he was appointed head of the city's education department.\n\nIn 1944 he became a member of the Assembly of Representatives, and between 1947 and 1948 served as a member of the Jewish National Council's directorate. In 1948 he was one of the people to sign the Israeli declaration of independence. During the subsequent Arab-Israeli War, he was one of the leaders of the security committee.\n\nFollowing independence, Pinkas assumed membership of the Provisional State Council, and was responsible for drawing up the regulations for the council's committees. In Israel's first elections in 1949 he was elected to the Knesset as a member of the United Religious Front, an alliance of Agudat Yisrael, Poalei Agudat Yisrael, Mizrachi (Pinkas' party) and Hapoel HaMizrachi, and served as chairman of the influential finance committee. In 1950 he was also elected Deputy Mayor of Tel Aviv.\n\nIn the 1951 elections Mizrachi ran alone, and Pinkas retained his seat, though the party won only two mandates. He was appointed Minister of Transport, and remained chairman of the finance committee. In his role as minister, Pinkas stopped public transport from operating on Shabbat.\n\nIn June 1952, a bomb was left on his doorstep by Amos Kenan and Shaltiel Ben Yair. He was not harmed in the assassination attempt but died two months later of a heart attack. He is buried in the Trumpeldor Cemetery in Tel Aviv. Ramat Pinkas was named after him.\n"}
{"id": "851347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=851347", "title": "David Raziel", "text": "David Raziel\n\nDavid Raziel (; 19 November 1910 - 20 May 1941) was a leader of the Zionist underground in British Mandatory Palestine and one of the founders of the Irgun.\n\nBorn David Rozenson in Smarhon’ (now in Grodno Region, Belarus), Vilnius in the Russian Empire, Raziel immigrated with his family in 1914 at the age of three to Ottoman Palestine, when his father was invited to teach at Tachkemoni, a religious school in Tel Aviv. During World War I, the family was exiled to Egypt by the Turks due to their Russian citizenship. They returned to Mandatory Palestine in 1923.\n\nIn 1928, Raziel completed studies at the Tachkemoni high school, and studied for several years at Yeshivat Mercaz HaRav in Jerusalem. He was regular study partner with Rabbi Zvi Yehuda Kook, son and ideological successor to the Rosh Yeshiva and Chief Rabbi of Israel, Rabbi Abraham Isaac Kook. \n\nWhen the 1929 Hebron massacre broke out, he joined the Haganah in Jerusalem, where he was studying philosophy and mathematics at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. When the Irgun was established, he was one of its first members, and displayed outstanding military skills. \n\nIn 1937 he was appointed by the Irgun as the first Commander of Jerusalem District and a year later, \"Commander in Chief\" of the Irgun. His term as leader was especially marked by violence against Arabs, including a sequence of marketplace bombings. Most of those attacks were in response to Arab violence. Raziel worked with Avraham Stern and Efraim Ilin.\n\nOn 17 May 1941 he was sent, with three of his comrades, including Ya'akov Meridor, to Iraq on behalf of the British army to help defeat the Rashid Ali al-Gaylani pro-Axis revolt in the Anglo-Iraqi War. On 20 May a Luftwaffe plane strafed the car in which he was travelling near Habbaniyah, killing him and a British officer. Meridor returned to Palestine and took over command of the Irgun.\n\nIn 1955 his remains were exhumed and transferred to Cyprus, and again in 1961 to Jerusalem's Mount Herzl military cemetery. His sister, Esther Raziel-Naor, was later a member of the Knesset for Herut, the party founded by Irgun leader Menachem Begin.\n\nRamat Raziel, a moshav in the Judaean Mountains, is named after Raziel, as well as many streets in Israel bearing his name in commemoration. The Israel postal service issued a stamp in his honor. There is a high-school in Herzliya named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "53889974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53889974", "title": "Dejoie Sylvain Ifashabayo", "text": "Dejoie Sylvain Ifashabayo\n\nDejoie Sylvain Ifashabayo (born 30 April 1994) is a Rwandan social entrepreneur and humanitarian. He founded Hope initiative in 2016. He is the director of operations at Anidaso\n\nDejoie was born in southern part of Rwanda, Kamonyi and grew up in Kigali. In 2015, he moved to Ghana to pursue higher education at Ashesi University as a MasterCard scholar.\n\nDejoie studied at Lycee de Kigali during his highschool years. He is currently at Ashesi University offering Business Administration and leadership\n\nHe has received a number of awards such as the MasterCard scholarship award. He is currently a Dalai Lama fellow. He also has awards within Ashesi University such as, he won the most enterprise pitch.\n"}
{"id": "7540972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7540972", "title": "Dida Diafat", "text": "Dida Diafat\n\nDida Diafat (born April 24, 1970 in Algiers) is an Algerian-French Muay Thai kickboxer who became a world champion in Thai kickboxing or Muay Thai at age 21. A fictionalised version of his life is depicted in the 2005 movie \"Chok-Dee\", in which he plays himself.\n\nAt the age of 18, Dida Diafat left the town of Villiers le Bel (Val d'Oise) to join the Muay Thai training camps of Thailand and became 3 years later the first Algerian and Frenchman to be a Muay Thai world champion. He became the first Thai kickboxing fighter to win a contract with a French television channel - specifically, Canal+ in 1994. Following the release of \"Chok Dee\" he retired from kickboxing and decided to pursue a career in acting and in the clothing business. He had a role in the 2009 horror film \"Mutants\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43551059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43551059", "title": "Dotty Lynch", "text": "Dotty Lynch\n\nDotty Lynch (July 24, 1945 – August 10, 2014) was an academic, journalist and political pollster, best known for being the first woman to be chief polltaker for a presidential campaign when she worked for Gary Hart. She also served as political advisor to George McGovern and Jimmy Carter.\n\nShe was the CBS News senior political editor from 1985 to 2005 and was a member of the CBS News/New York Times polling consortium.\n\nIn 2006, she joined American University's School of Communication as executive in residence, and became director of the SOC/SPA joint MA program in Political Communication.\n\nLynch began her career in 1968 when she worked as a researcher for the Election Unit at NBC. In 1972, she joined Cambridge Survey Research, becoming a vice president in 1976.\n\nLynch died August 10, 2014, from complications of melanoma. She is survived by her husband R. Morgan Downey and stepson Robert.\n\n"}
{"id": "2674223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2674223", "title": "Dr. Dahesh", "text": "Dr. Dahesh\n\nDr. Dahesh (in Arabic الدكتور داهش) (June 1, 1909, Jerusalem – April 9, 1984, New York City) was the name-title and pen name of Salim Moussa Achi (in Arabic سليم موسى عشّي) founder of Daheshism.\n\n\"Salim Moussa Achi\" was born in Jerusalem on June 1, 1909, to Assyrian Christian parents \"Moussa Elias Achi\" and \"Shmouneh Hanna Achi (née Hannouch)\". Shortly after his birth the family moved to Beirut, Lebanon.\n\nHe was a prolific Lebanese author and purported worker of miracles. By the age of 21, he had adopted the name \"Dahesh\", Arabic for \"inspiring wonder\".\n\nDr. Dahesh proclaimed Daheshism on March 23, 1942. The spiritual message of Daheshism can be summarized in a belief in the existence and immortality of the spirit; reincarnation; the intrinsic correlation between all the major religions; spiritual causality and just reward (i.e., karma). His publishing career included essays, poetry, short stories, novels, and an autobiography, and exceeded 150 works.\n\nDahesh was imprisoned on September 9, 1944 and later on stripped of his Lebanese nationality and exiled from Lebanon in 1944 during the reign of Lebanese President Bechara El Khoury. In 1953, Lebanon, the newly elected President Camille Chamoun restored his citizenship.\n\nDr. Dahesh died in April 9, 1984, in New York City.\n\nDahesh began collecting works of art around 1930 and continued to do so for the rest of his life. Today, his art collection belongs to New York City's Dahesh Museum of Art.\n\nHe also formed the Dahesh Library, the largest private library in the Arab world, known for its literary, scientific, and artistic holdings, and for its periodical collections. The Dahesh Heritage Center, also includes the offices of the Daheshist Publishing Company, on Broadway, New York.\n\nThe Daheshist Theory of Reincarnation\n\n"}
{"id": "33927003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33927003", "title": "Dédée Bazile", "text": "Dédée Bazile\n\nMarie Sainte Dédée Bazile (), known as Défilée and Défilée-La-Folle, is a figure of the Haitian Revolution. She is remembered for retrieving and burying the mutilated body of Emperor Dessalines after his assassination at Pont Larnage.\n\nDédée Bazile was born near Cap-Français to enslaved parents and made a living serving as a sutler to the army of Dessalines. There are varying accounts of her madness but according to legend, Dédée Bazile either developed mental illness after she was raped by her master at age 18, or after some of her family members were killed in the defeat of Dessalines’s army by General Donatien Rochambeau.\n\nOn October 17, 1806, Emperor Dessalines was ambushed by his former comrades Alexandre Pétion, Jean-Pierre Boyer, André Rigaud, and Bruno Blanchet. He was fatally shot north of Port-au-Prince. His body was then brought into the city where it was stoned and mutilated by the crowds.\n\n\"Pendant que de nombreux enfants, au milieu de grands cris de joie, criblaient de coups de pierre les restes infortunés de Dessalines, sur la place du Gouvernement, une vieille femme folle nommée Défilée vint à passer. Elle s'approcha de l'attroupement que formaient les enfants...On lui dit que c'était Dessalines. Ses yeux égarés devinrent calmes tout à coup; une lueur de raison brilla sur ses traits. Elle alla à la course chercher un sac, revint sur la place, y mit ses restes ensanglantés et les transporta au cimetière intérieur de la ville. [Port-au-Prince] Le général Pétion y envoya quelques militaires qui, pour une modique somme, les enterrèrent.\"\n\nDédée Bazile, a fanatic admirer of Dessalines, gathered his remains in a sack and transported them to the Cimetière Intérieur to bury them.\n\nDédée Bazile died around 1816 and was buried in Port-au-Prince, but her grave has been lost. She was survived by her several children including her son Colonel Condol Bazile, officer of the constabulary under the Haitian president Faustin Soulouque. She is considered one of the four symbolic heroines of the independence of Haiti, alongside Sanité Bélair, Catherine Flon, and Cécile Fatiman.\n\n"}
{"id": "1126973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126973", "title": "Franciszek Ksawery Branicki", "text": "Franciszek Ksawery Branicki\n\nFranciszek Ksawery Branicki (1730, Barwałd Górny – 1819) was a Polish nobleman, magnate, count, diplomat, politician, military commander and one of the leaders of the Targowica Confederation. He was appointed the Great Crown Podstoli in 1764, Ambassador in Berlin in 1765, Master of the Hunt of the Crown in 1766–1773, Artillery General of Lithuania in 1768–1773, Ambassador in Moscow in 1771, Field Crown Hetman in 1773 and Great Crown Hetman of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth between 1774 and 1794.\n\nHe opposed the reforms of the Great Sejm (1788–1792), and supported the Hetman Party and the Targowica Confederation. For his pro-Russian policies and controversial anti-nationalistic politics against the Commonwealth he was sentenced to hang; however, he escaped the death penalty and received \"in absentia\" from the Supreme Criminal Court during the Kościuszko Uprising (1794).\n\nBranicki was awarded the Order of the White Eagle in December 1764. He married Aleksandra von Engelhardt, a niece of Prince Potemkin, in 1781.\n\nFranciszek Ksawery was the son of Piotr Branicki, Chorąży of Halicz, and Melania Teresa Szembek, the chatelaine of Oświęcim. He started his career as a soldier in the Seven Years' War, firstly in the Russian Imperial army and later in the French. He distinguished himself at the battle of Sarbinowo (Zorndorf) in 1758 while commanding a squadron of Russian cavalry. For his services in the French army Louis XV awarded him the title of count, however, in Poland, prior to the partitions, the title was not officially recognized by the parliament. In 1765 he became a Knight of the Order of Saint Stanislaus.\n\nHe became a member of the Polish parliament in 1762. In 1764, Branicki was one of the Electors of Stanisław August Poniatowski (reigned as Stanisław II August), representing the Halicz county and his father's noble and aristocratic titles. He later became a member of the Military Commission of the Crown. In 1766, as a result of a duel with the famous Giacomo Casanova who was at that time in Poland, Branicki was seriously wounded in the stomach. In 1766, he gave a speech in the parliament, represented the Halicz county once more.\n\nBranicki was a strong supporter and a member of the Radom Confederation and mostly focused on how to weaken the influence of Karol Stanisław \"Panie Kochanku\" Radziwiłł and possibly on how to deprive Radziwiłł of his fortune. In 1767, as a member of the Repnin Sejm of Sochaczew, he became a member of the pro-Russian delegation, which was created under the Russian envoy Nikolai Repnin in order to review the quality of the government of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nAs a commander, Branicki decided to aid the king and faithfully led the Royal Polish Army in the years 1768–1772 and helped to suppress the supporters and members of the Bar Confederation. On June 19, 1768, together with Russian troops he captured the city of Bar in Ruthenia, which served as the enemy's headquarters.\n\nIn 1770, during the relation crisis with Russia, king Stanisław II Augustus, appointed him as his deputy in the Russian Empire, without consulting it with the Czartoryski family, which was usually responsible for nominating deputies, Sejm Marshals and Hetmans. On January 18, 1771 Branicki arrived in St. Petersburg. From there he warned king Stanisław that if the Russian delegation in Warsaw with general Kasper von Saldern would not agree with the Polish Sejm and the parliament, the Russian Empress would partition the country, and so it happened. In 1772 he went on a diplomatic mission to Paris. For these merits Stanisław Augustus gave him the county of Biała Cerkiew and appointed him the Crown Hetman. Between 1773 and 1775 he was a member of a newly established secret party, responsible for confiscating the assets belonging to the Jesuit society in the entire country. In 1776 Branicki became a member of Andrzej Mokronowski's controversial political party.\n\nAt the Parliament sitting of 1778 years Franciszek Ksawery Branicki was appointed the adviser of Permanent Council's Chief Marshal.\n\nLater he was a member of the Great Sejm and a chairman of the Military Commission of the Commonwealth. He was a strong opponent of reforms applied by the Constitution of May 3, and together with Russian attaches, he co-founded the traitorous Confederation of Targowica. Branicki was included in Yakov Bulhakov's list, which included a summary of people, mostly senators and deputies, that relied on the Russians and were keen to overthrow the Constitution and possibly even the monarch. Throughout his career, Branicki was one of the leaders of the pro-Russian political party.\n\nA conservative, standing behind Bishop Kajetan Sołtyk, Branicki tried everything to keep his former privileges of the Hetman. A determined counterrevolutionary, he refused to sign any treaty that included the partitioning of his homeland. However, because of his sympathy towards the Russians, over the nineteenth century Branicki was considered a traitor, just like other leaders and members of the Targowica Confederation.\n\nBranicki held several great posts in the Commonwealth, most notably being Great Hetman and Crown Hetman. Additionally, he was the general commander of the Lithuanian artillery. On August 13, 1793, he resigned from the position in order to become a general in the Russian army. The owner of many counties, towns and villages in Ruthenia (Polish Ukraine) made him one of the most powerful and wealthiest Polish magnates, but he was in constant rivalry with Karol Stanisław Radziwiłł, a zealous patriot and one of the richest men in Europe. Branicki resided in Biała Cerkiew near Kiev, where he spent the last years of his life, having abandoned politics and military service.\n\nDuring the Kościuszko Insurrection, the Supreme Court of Free Poland sentenced him to death by hanging, eternal infamy, confiscation of property and loss of all titles. Because of the absence of the accused, the sentence was carried out \"in absentia\" on September 29, 1794. His portrait, which was hung on the gallows was painted by an anonymous artist. The portraits of Stanisław Szczęsny Potocki and Hetman Seweryn Rzewuski, which were not captured and convicted of treason, were also hung the same day.\n\nThe character and personality of Branicki was immortalized as a symbol of national treason by Poland's leading writers and publishers, most notably one being Stanisław Wyspiański. Branicki was a brawler, but a good and close friend of King Stanisław II Augustus. He liked to give the impression of a man who knows the military – but according to historians he hardly equaled in ability with the Russian cavalry colonels, despite the fact that supposedly he fought bravely during the Seven Years' War. After the conflict he was praised by some and hated by others, especially the Polish royal court, which considered Branicki as their new enemy that had to be quickly \"eliminated\". He was a stubborn and obstinate man, always claiming that he knows best. He was also disliked by the Polish nobility. Branicki was described as selfish and proud of himself, and in constant rivalry with other powerful magnates like Karol Stanisław \"Panie Kochanku\" Radziwiłł.\n\nHe is one of the figures immortalized in Jan Matejko's 1891 painting, \"Constitution of May 3, 1791.\"\n\nBranicki's greediness, treason and baronial-aristocratic pride appear in the drama written by Stanisław Wyspiański entitled \"The Wedding (Wesele)\".\n"}
{"id": "11824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11824", "title": "Frederick Augustus II of Saxony", "text": "Frederick Augustus II of Saxony\n\nFrederick Augustus II (full name: \"Frederick Augustus Albert Maria Clemens Joseph Vincenz Aloys Nepomuk Johann Baptista Nikolaus Raphael Peter Xavier Franz de Paula Venantius Felix\") ( 18 May 1797 in Dresden – 9 August 1854 in Brennbüchel, Karrösten, Tyrol) was King of Saxony and a member of the House of Wettin.\n\nHe was the eldest son of Maximilian, Prince of Saxony — younger son of the Elector Frederick Christian of Saxony — by his first wife, Caroline of Bourbon, Princess of Parma.\n\nFrom his birth, it was clear that one day Frederick Augustus would become the ruler of Saxony. His father was the only son of the Elector Frederick Christian of Saxony who left surviving male issue. When the King Frederick Augustus I died (1827) and Anton succeeded him as King, Frederick Augustus became second in line to the throne, preceded only by his father Maximilian.\n\nHe was an officer in the War of the Sixth Coalition. However, he had little interest in military affairs.\n\nThe July Revolution of 1830 in France marked the beginning of disturbances in Saxony that autumn. The people claimed a change in the constitution and demanded a young regent of the kingdom to share the government with the King Anton. On 1 September the Prince Maximilian renounced his rights of succession in favor of his son Frederick Augustus, who was proclaimed Prince Co-Regent (de: \"Prinz-Mitregenten\") of Saxony. On 2 February 1832 Frederick Augustus brought Free Autonomy to the cities. Also, by an edict of 17 March of that year, the farmers were freed from the corvée and hereditary submission.\n\nOn 6 June 1836, King Anton died and Frederick Augustus succeeded him. As an intelligent man, he was quickly popular with the people as he had been since the time of his regency. The new king solved political questions only from a pure sense of duty. Mostly he preferred to leave these things on the hands of his ministers.\n\nA standardized jurisdiction for Saxony created the Criminal Code of 1836. During the Revolutionary disturbances of 1848 (March Revolution), he appointed liberal ministers in the government, lifted censorship, and remitted a liberal electoral law. Later his attitude changed. On 28 April Frederick August II dissolved the Parliament. In 1849, Frederick Augustus was forced to flee to the Königstein Fortress. The May Uprising was crushed by Saxon and Prussian troops and Frederick was able to return after only a few days.\n\nIn 1844 Frederick Augustus, accompanied by his personal physician Carl Gustav Carus, made an informal (\"incognito\") visit to England and Scotland. Among places they visited were Lyme Regis where he purchased from the local fossil collector and dealer, Mary Anning, an ichthyosaur skeleton for his own extensive natural history collection. It was not a state visit, but the King was the guest of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert at Windsor Castle, visited many of the sights in London and in the university cities of Oxford and Cambridge, and toured widely in England, Wales and Scotland.\n\nDuring a journey in Tyrol, he had an accident in Brennbüchel in which he fell in front of a horse that stepped on his head. On 8 August 1854, he died in the Gasthof Neuner. He was buried on 16 August in the Katholische Hofkirche of Dresden. In his memory, the Dowager Queen Maria arranged to establish the Königskapelle (King's Chapel) at the accident place, which was consecrated one year later, some of the last members of the Saxon royal family, including Maria Emanuel, Margrave of Meissen, are buried beside the chapel\n\nIn Vienna on 26 September 1819 (by proxy) and again in Dresden on 7 October 1819 (in person), Frederick Augustus married firstly with the Archduchess Maria Caroline of Austria (Maria Karoline Ferdinande Theresia Josephine Demetria), daughter of Emperor Francis I of Austria. They had no children.\n\nIn Dresden on 24 April 1833 Frederick Augustus married secondly with the Princess Maria Anna of Bavaria (Maria Anna Leopoldine Elisabeth Wilhelmine), daughter of the King Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria. Like his first marriage, this was childless.\n\nThe musician Theodor Uhlig (1822–1853) was an illegitimate son of Frederick Augustus.\n\nWithout legitimate issue, after his death Frederick Augustus was succeeded by his younger brother, Johann.\n"}
{"id": "32078432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32078432", "title": "Frei Caneca", "text": "Frei Caneca\n\nJoaquim da Silva Rabelo, later Frei Joaquim do Amor Divino Rabelo (August 20, 1779 – January 13, 1825), commonly known as Frei Caneca (English: Friar Mug), was a brazilian religious leader, politician, and journalist. He was involved in multiple revolts in Northeastern Brazil during the early 19th century. He acted as the main leader on the Pernambucan Revolt. As a journalist, he founded and edited \"Typhis Pernambucano\", a weekly journal used on the Confederation of the Equator.\n\nEvaldo Cabral de Mello described him as: \"The man in the history of Brazil that embodied the quintessential nativist sentiment was curiously a Lusitanian 'jus sanguinis'.\"\n\nFrei Caneca was the oldest son of portuguese parents. His father, Domingos da Silva Rabelo, was a cooper from whom he got his nickname. His mother, Francisca Maria Alexandrina de Siqueira, was the cousin of a Carmelite nun. The family resided in Recife, more precisely in Fora-de-Portas, today known as Comunidade do Pilar, built during the Dutch Brazil era.\n\nHe became a novice at the Carmo and took the Religious habit in 1796 and professed the next year (1797).\n\nHe was ordained into the Carmelite Order in 1801, with the necessary apostolic dispensation of age 22, and created the Seminário de Olinda. He was authorized to attend the courses that the Order had not offered. He attended the seminary and oratorians libraries in Recife. In 1803 he was designated to teach rhetoric and geometry at his convent. Later he taught rational and moral philosophy.\n\nAt some point, \"his interest goes beyond the walls of the cloister, as indicated by its provision in public chair geometry of Alagoas region.\"It remained there a short time, given the prospect of appointment to the same chair in Recife, which failed to materialize by the Pernambucan Revolt of 1817.\n\nFrei Caneca shared liberalist ideas, republican thoughts, and attended the \"Academia do Paraíso\", one of the meeting places of those who, influenced by the French Revolution and US independence, conspired against Portuguese rule.\n\nCaneca's first foray into political life was during the Pernambucan Revolt when Pernambuco and other nearby states rebelled against the Portuguese royal court, which had relocated to Brazil during the Peninsular War. They felt that the government was ignoring the sugar-producing north in favor of the coffee-producing south, which was closer to Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe revolt proclaimed a Republic and organized the first independent government in the region. No reference to his participation survived: \"In the opening events of sedition on March 6, as the formation of the provisional government. Thus it is that the list of voters who chose him, not in his name. His presence only detects the last weeks of existence of the regime, to monitor the republican army, which marched to the south of the province, in order to face the troops of the Count of Arcos, at which, according to the indictment, would have exercised captain of guerrillas.\" He was the adviser to Republican South Army, which was commanded by Colonel Suassuna.\n\nAfter the rebellion was put down, he was imprisoned in Salvador for four years. During that time, he dedicated himself to the drafting of the Portuguese Grammar.\n\nPardoned in 1821, in the context of the constitutionalist movement in Portugal, Frei Caneca returned to Pernambuco and resumed political activities. During his trip, he came to be held in a gaol of Campina Grande. In 1821 he was involved in the so-called movement of Goiana, a second sedition emancipationist movement that proclaimed adherence to the Lisbon Cortes with the support of the principal owners of the north woods and cotton provincial support. An army of rural militias and frontline troops marched against Recife, without occupying the city. The goianistas failed to find substantial support in the southern forest. The \"Beberibe Convention\" consecrated in September the \"status quo\", predicting that Recife and Goiana would continue to operate in the areas under their control, pending the decision of the Courts. These determined the election of a provisional board that became the first self-government of the province in October 1821.\n\nFrei Caneca supported the formation of the first Board of Governors of Pernambuco, chaired by a trader, Gervasio Pires Ferreira, who appointed him to the public chair of geometry in Recife. It was a very Recifean Board, where the power came from the clergy, the urban strata, trade, the armed forces and the liberal professions - the defeated forces in 1817. Gervasio was the dominant figure of a government that wanted consensus. He was the leader of a Portuguese trade sector that was already nationalized by residence, by birth, and by family ties to the land.\n\nIn 1822 Frei Caneca, who enthusiastically supported the Board, wrote the \"Dissertation on what is meant by country citizen and duties to this with the same country.\" He wanted to give theoretical formulation to one of the main objectives of Gervasio, which was to reconcile the Portuguese trade in the province with the new order. His main thesis was that the Portuguese domiciled in the ground and connected to it by family ties and interests should be considered as Pernambuco's main interest.\n\nEvaldo Cabral de Mello stated, \"The Cortes of Lisbon, on one hand, and the regency of Dom Pedro, on the other, embodied in terms of 1817 aspirations, equally legitimate options, although incomplete and contradictory. On one hand, the Sovereign Congress offered a liberal regime, under a constitutional monarchy, though, from February 1822, was clear in Brazil that they would charge the price of not pure and simple restoration of the commercial monopoly, it was impossible to resurrect but a preferential system for trade and Portuguese navigation. In turn, the regency of Rio promised freedom of trade and independence but with the expected bill of building an authoritarian regime based in south-central (region of Brazil).\"\n\nThe government of Gervasio tried to gain time, waiting for a situation that would protect both options without entirely ruling out the separation from both Lisbon and Rio. The Board will be anathematized Varnhagen Jose Honorio Rodrigues, accused of lack of national feeling, their defense was made by Barbosa Lima Sobrinho).\n\nUnder the pressure of a military riot, the joint Gervasio Pires Ferreira was coerced to join the cause of Rio de Janeiro and ended up deposed by a military uprising, forming a so-called \"Yokels Government\" in October 1822.\n\nOn September 23, 1822, the so-called \"Board of Yokels\" was elected, which replaced the Gervasiana Board. This government lasted until December 1823. It was dominated by representatives of large landed property. elected members of the Board were President Afonso de Albuquerque Maranhao, Secretary Jose Mariano de Albuquerque and members Francisco Pais Barreto, squire Cape; Francisco de Paula Gomes dos Santos, Manuel Inacio Bezerra de Melo, Francisco de Paula Cavalcanti de Albuquerque and João Nepomuceno Carneiro da Cunha.\n\nThis led Frei Caneca to join the fray. His polemic with José Fernandes Gama and his nephew, Judge Bernardo José da Gama, conspiracy leaders criticized Gervasio, writing \"Pythia Letters to Daman\". 'Pedrosada' was a failed attempt to overthrow the Board of Yokels. Afterwards, the Gamas tried to recover in court and denounced what they called the Republican faction of the province, drawing up a list of suspects that included Frei Caneca.\n\n\"Brother Mug sided with the opposition without fighting it, but he preferred to engage against the group in Rio de Janeiro, which intended to dictate the fate of the province. Frei Caneca even pronounced a gratitude prayer on the occasion of the thanksgiving ceremony in the Church of the Holy Body, by Pedro I acclamation as emperor. Only from the constitution of Manuel de Carvalho Pais de Andrade government that seven months after the inauguration proclaim the Confederation of Ecuador, there were signs of close collaboration of Frei Caneca with power, but also in the form of journalistic activity and, sporadically, giving his opinion on some of the big decisions that the government should take.\"\n\nThe first of his letters went out March 17, 1823, shortly after the 'Pedrosada'. It was published in the \"Mail of Rio de Janeiro\", a periodical property of João Soares Lisboa, who participated in the Confederation of the Equator, and died on September 30, 1824, wounded in combat during his escape through the interior of Pernambuco next to Brother Mug and other companions. Pedro da Silva Pedroso, or Pedrosa, was the governor of arms of the province that retraced the Pais Barreto alliance that toppled Gervasio, without which could depose him, for his support of Gama, in court.\n\nFrei Caneca never fought the Board of Yokels. He preferred to focus on the Pernambuco faction of the Court, endorsing the personnel policy of the emperor, be it under Jose Bonifácio, or under his successors.\n\nAs for the Pedrosada, the established wanton that pronounced Pedrosa and Paula Gomes and José Fernandes Gama members of the government, and due to the imperial protection none of them were to be punished. Divided and demoralized, the Board of Yokels dragged a sad resistance until December 1823 when he resigned. Faced by the opposition of the old gervasistas around the mayor of Manuel de Carvalho Andrade, Navy Parent, and Cipriano Barata, who had returned from Lisbon Cortes; and the pressures of Rio de Janeiro, which required Pernambuco monthly amounts of the king's time and further two million, equivalent to shipments to Portugal after the departure of the king.\n\nHe and others soon grew frustrated with the constitution of the newly formed Empire of Brazil, which limited autonomy in the provinces, and returned to secessionist politics, this time becoming a leader in the Confederation of the Equator by providing much of its intellectual support. In addition, he published \"Typhis Pernambucano\", a pro-Confederation newspaper critical of Pedro I and the imperial government from 1823 to 1824.\n\nIt is essential to know the political and provincial context of Brother Mug political works, the situation in which they lived Pernambuco and the other provinces to understand the movement that represented the Confederation of Ecuador - muffled under \"the weight of Saquarema's tradition in Brazilian historiography Independence\", that is, which Evaldo Cabral de Mello called \"the historiography of Rio de Janeiro state court and its epigones in the Republic\" claiming for the three great provinces of the Southeast the role of builders of nationality. The revolutionary Pernambuco cycle cannot, of course, be considered separatists - but the presumption of separatism was the result of the gap occurred between the emancipation process in the Southeast and Northeast. In Rio, says Cabral de Mello, `The Independence began as a dispute between absolutists and liberals around the United Kingdom of Portugal organization and even then not cogitated separation Portugal, only to preserve the status acquired by Brazil within the Lusitanian empire. The situation was very different in the Northeast, where independence has started with a dispute between colony and metropolis, with the difference that the latter was no longer in Lisbon but in Rio de Janeiro...\n\nIn 1823 during the movement known as 'Pedrosada', Brother Mug I wrote \"The Hunter\" and \"Pythia Letters to Daman\". Says Cabral de Mello, page 29 of the cited work: \"In the euphoria that followed the liberal revolution of the Kingdom, the expectations of reducing the burden of taxes in trade and agriculture were not lower than the rest of Brazil. They were perhaps larger, since the installation of the court in 1808, Pernambuco was burdened with new taxes for including the public lighting of Rio, promptly revoked by Gervasio's Board. (...) The state of bankruptcy that had reduced Banco do Brasil with the return of King John VI and the establishment of provincial boards had severely limited the action of the Court, which had only the customs resources and province of Rio de Janeiro time the other provinces also denied resources. Thus, the north accession to the emperor was above all a matter of urgent financial, coffee not as profitable at the mid-30s, so the main line of the tax revenue which had to come from sugar and cotton, products predominantly northerners.\"\n\nHe took part with Cipriano Barata, as one of the leaders in the Ecuadorian Confederation, republican and separatist movement. His arguments are not directed against the emperor but against what he considered the authoritarian drift of Jose Bonifacio. After September 7, \"the intensification of the fight between Jose Bonifacio and the liberals of the Court had led to censorship of the press, with the closure of newspapers and the attack on the director of the Malagueta, and the arrest of more than 300 individuals, the same who had beaten for independence since the departure of John VI\". There were other dissatisfaction reasons: requirements of Rio de Janeiro state treasury, the draft constitution published by the Correio Brasiliense in September 1822, the creation of the Swiss battalion, the foundation of the Apostolate, the institution of Imperial Cruise Order, seen as \"the club of servile aristocrats.\"\n\nEvaldo Cabral de Mello believes it would be more appropriate instead of Pernambuco republicanism, consider itself autonomous.\"The Revolution project was ancient in Pernambuco\" later comment on the judge of Appeals that dismissed the motion. There was \"a reinterpretation of provincial history in the light of revolutionary modernity represented by the political philosophy of the Enlightenment and the French Revolution.\" For Brother Mug and the Autonomous Party, punished by Republican failure in 1817, \"the provincial autonomy had priority over the form of government.\" They would be ready to enter into a commitment to the Rio, which in exchange for acceptance of the monarchical regime, would give ample relief to provinces. There would be no reason to reject the monarchy, since authentically constitutional and since preserved the franchises. Reading the newspaper, Cipriano Barata, \"The Sentinel of Liberty\", denied the charges of republicanism.\n\nIn 1824 Frei Caneca became one of the advisers of Manuel de Carvalho Pais de Andrade, opining against recognizing Francisco Pais Barreto, the squire of the Cabo, as president of Pernambuco. He opined the Alagoas invasion, in order to eradicate the counter-revolutionary forces squire of Cabo; and against the oath of the Constitution bestowed by D. Pedro I. Says Evaldo Cabral de Mello that \"Brother Mug underestimated the means at the disposal of Rio Court, overestimating the other hand, the local will of resistance to Rio's despotism.\"\n\nD. Pedro I suspended constitutional guarantees in the province, punishing it territorially, amputating the district of San Francisco, on which was the left bank of the river San Francisco, now incorporated into the territory of Bahia. Recife underwent naval blockade, this time by Admiral Cochrane, who bombarded the city. Pernambuco was invaded from the south by the troops of Brigadier Lima e Silva. Since the sugarcane owners in the south woods remained neutral, his troops easily occupied Recife in September 12, 1824.\n\nAgain defeated, he took refuge with a part of his troops in the countryside and fled north towards Ceará. During this flight, he started writing the \"Route\".\n\nOn December 25, 1823 circulated the first issue of \"Typhis Pernambucano\" newspaper that would be the trench of Brother Mug until the settlement of the Confederacy. It states that is considered guilty of the situation of the Portuguese party in Rio and the ministry had happened to José Bonifácio. The dissolution of the Assembly took Pernambuco by surprise but \"from July 2 on wards the history of Confederation became the narrative of defeat.\"\n\nAfter the defeat of the Confederation, he was arrested by imperial troops on 29 November for his participation as Secretary of the armed rebellion and also as its spiritual director. He was incarcerated in Recife. On December 18, 1824 there was established a military commission under the chairmanship of Colonel Francisco de Lima e Silva (father of the future Duke of Caxias) to conduct the trial on the charges of sedition and rebellion against the imperial orders of his Imperial majesty. With full power to judge and condemn summarily, the accused was sentenced to death by hanging. The convict himself described his trial:\"On the 20th, I was brought before the assassin court of commission, whose members were General Francisco de Lima e Silva, president, judge-rapporteur, Thomas Xavier Garcia de Almeida, and other members, Colonel engineering Salvador Jose Maciel, the Lieutenant Colonel hunters Francisco Vicente Souto, Colonel hunters Manuel Antonio Leitao Flag, the Earl of Escragnolle, that was my questioner.\"On December 18 he was tried by a military commission, found guilty, and sentenced to death by hanging. In court documents, Frei Caneca was indicted as one of the rebellion's leaders and for writing incendiary papers. The two other leaders were Stinho Bezerra Cavalcanti, captain of grenadiers and commander of the 4th Battalion Gunners Henriques, and Francisco de Souza Rangel.\n\nAltogether the execution involved eleven confederates, including three in Rio de Janeiro. The first was Brother Mug, who charged with sedition and rebellion.\n\nIn January 13, 1825, was set up the hanging of the show before the walls of the Fort of Five Points. Stripped of religious habit, i.e. \"without the orders in the Rosary church, the sacred canons form\" still having three executioners who refused to hang him. The Military Commission ordered his death by firing squad, (\"since it can not be hanged for disobedience of the executioners\"). Attached to one of the gallows rods, by a platoon under the command of the same official. His body was placed near one of the gates of the Carmelite church in the center of Recife, being collected by religious and buried in place until now unidentified.\n\nThe wall against which the cleric was shot, next to the Five Points Fort, still stands. The site is marked by a bust and an allusive plaque placed by the Archaeological Institute, History and Geography Pernambucano in 1917. The iconography of Brother Mug, the best-known work is the public \"Execution Frei Caneca\", by Murillo La Greca.\n\nThe poet and writer João Cabral de Melo Neto described in verses, in 1984, the last day of Frei Caneca, in his work The Friar's Way (Auto do Frade). His brother, the historian Evaldo Cabral de Mello, was the organizer and wrote the introduction to the book \"Frei Joaquim do Amor Divino Caneca Coleção Formadores do Brasil\", Editora 34, Ltda, 2001 entitled \"Brother Mug or Another Independence\" (Frei Caneca ou an Outra Independência). As for the other players, says Evaldo Cabral de Mello, Manuel de Carvalho took refuge on board an English frigate, going to live in London, where only return after the abdication to restart a political career that would take him to the presidency of Pernambuco and Senate Empire. The poet Natividade Saldanha, secretary of the Board, is sought asylum in Venezuela and then in Bogota, where he practiced law and died in 1830.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38159383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38159383", "title": "Gavin Escobar", "text": "Gavin Escobar\n\nGavin Escobar (born February 3, 1991) is an American football tight end who is currently a free agent. He was drafted by the Dallas Cowboys in the second round of the 2013 NFL Draft. He played college football at San Diego State University.\n\nEscobar attended Santa Margarita Catholic High School in Rancho Santa Margarita, California. He was a 2008 Trinity League second-team selection on offense after grabbing 37 receptions for 492 yards and six scores. \n\nHe had seven receptions for 130 yards against St. Bonaventure, the eventual state Division III champion, in which he was named the player of the game for his performance. As a junior, he caught 11 passes for 163 yards (14.8 yards per catch). Considered a two-star recruit by \"Rivals.com\". He also practiced basketball.\n\nEscobar accepted a football scholarship from San Diego State University, where he played for the Aztecs from 2009 to 2012. He was redshirted as a true freshman after being diagnosed with testicular cancer, which he was able to overcome after having the tumor removed. In 2010, he started 12 games, posting 29 receptions for 323 yards and 4 touchdowns. The next year although his role decreased with 6 starts in 13 games, his production improved with 51 receptions for 780 yards and 7 touchdowns. As a junior, he registered 42 receptions for 543 yards and 6 touchdowns. \n\nFollowing his 2011 and 2012 seasons, he was a first-team All-Mountain West Conference (MWC) selection. For his college career, he tallied 122 receptions for 1,646 yards, 17 touchdowns and never missed a game. He announced that he would enter the NFL Draft after his junior season.\n\nEscobar was selected by the Dallas Cowboys in the second round (47th overall) of the 2013 NFL Draft. After having mixed results from using previous second round draft choices in tight ends Anthony Fasano and Martellus Bennett, the Cowboys surprised observers by selecting another tight end.\n\nIn his rookie season, he was expected to be a pass catching option in the two tight end packages, but he was used sparingly, registering 9 receptions for 134 yards and 2 touchdowns. \n\nEscobar remained in a backup role in his second season in the league, but was passed on the depth chart by James Hanna, who was used to block at the point of attack in the running game. He was mostly used on special teams and as a red zone target, finishing with 105 receiving yards and 4 touchdowns on 9 receptions.\n\nEven though wide receiver Dez Bryant missed 7 games, Escobar still wasn't able to increase his role in the team's offense and remained as the third-string tight end. The 12 games that quarterback Tony Romo missed, also impacted his production, finishing with 8 receptions for 64 yards and one touchdown. \n\nHe suffered a season-ending injury when he tore his right Achilles tendon in the last drive of the fourteenth game of the season against the New York Jets. On December 25, he was placed on the injured reserve list, in order to promote defensive tackle Casey Walker to the 53-man roster.\n\nEscobar made a surprising quick recovery from his Achilles injury, allowing him to have a full participation in training camp, though he was passed on the depth chart by Geoff Swaim, who displayed better blocking ability. After being used primarily as a core special teams player and only participating in 29 offensive plays, Escobar became the backup tight end after Swaim suffered a season-ending injury in the week 10 win against the Pittsburgh Steelers. Because he struggled with his blocking, the Cowboys were forced to use offensive lineman Joe Looney as the blocking tight end in short yardage situations. He finished with 4 receptions and one touchdown.\n\nAlthough he had the size and continued improving his technique, he could never develop into a dependable in-line blocker. As with other Cowboys tight ends during the Jason Witten era, the team's coaches could never find a complementary role for him in the passing game, which limited Escobar to never starting more than 4 games and recording more than 9 receptions in a season. He played in 62 games (7 starts), making 30 receptions for 333 yards and 8 touchdowns.\n\nOn March 31, Escobar signed a one-year contract as a free agent with the Kansas City Chiefs, to provide depth in a position that had some uncertainty, with starter Travis Kelce rehabbing from offseason shoulder surgery and backup Demetrius Harris having been arrested in March for felony possession of marijuana and possession of paraphernalia. On September 2, he was released after not being able to pass Ross Travis on the depth chart.\n\nOn October 23, 2017, Escobar signed with the Baltimore Ravens, who were looking to improve their depth after tight end Maxx Williams re-injured his ankle. On November 18, he was released to make room for Danny Woodhead.\n\nOn January 15, 2018, Escobar signed a reserve/future contract with the Cleveland Browns. He was released by the Browns on April 12, 2018.\n\nOn April 16, 2018, Escobar signed with the Miami Dolphins. He was released on September 1, 2018, but was re-signed five days later. He was released on September 11, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "21793222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21793222", "title": "Gene Kelly filmography", "text": "Gene Kelly filmography\n\nGene Kelly (1912–1996) was an American dancer, actor, singer, director, producer and choreographer whose work in motion pictures spans from 1942 to 1996. He is probably best known today for his performances in musicals, notably \"An American in Paris\" (1951) and \"Singin' in the Rain\" (1952).\n\nKelly made his Hollywood film debut in \"For Me and My Gal\" (1942), co-starring with Judy Garland. Afterward, he went on to work as an actor, dancer and subsequently, choreographer, in a series of musical films. In these films, his choreography included experiments with a combination of dance and animation (\"Anchors Aweigh\" and \"Invitation to the Dance\") and dance scenes involving special effects (including the \"Alter Ego\" number from \"Cover Girl\" and the split-screen dance number from \"It's Always Fair Weather\"). In addition to his work as an actor and choreographer, Kelly directed or co-directed several films, some of which did not feature him in an acting role. Kelly appeared in several non-musical dramatic and comedy films as well.\n\nKelly received an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor for his performance in \"Anchors Aweigh\" (1945) and won an Honorary Academy Award for his work in \"An American in Paris\" (1951). He was voted the 15th most popular film actor on the American Film Institute’s millennium list, while his \"Singin' in the Rain\" was voted the most popular movie musical of all time.\nThis filmography below contains a chronological listing of Gene Kelly's feature films. His musicals are indicated with a beamed eighth note symbol (♫).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42665928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42665928", "title": "Gerald Ellott", "text": "Gerald Ellott\n\nGerald J. Ellott is a New Zealand architect and philatelist who signed the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1988. He is a member of the New Zealand Order of Merit (MNZM) for Philately and a past President of the Royal Philatelic Society of New Zealand. He is a member of the Royal Institute of British Architects.\n\nEllott has been awarded the Fédération Internationale de Philatélie Research Medal.\n\nGerald's website http://ellott-postalhistorian.com was released on 26 July 2016 and contains over 70 articles saved in PDF files.\n\n"}
{"id": "23698793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23698793", "title": "Gorgani", "text": "Gorgani\n\nGorgani () means \"of or related to Gorgan\", a city in north of Iran.\n\nGorgani or Gurgani is a nisba that refers to the city of Gorgan (also known as \"Astarabad\" and \"Jurjan\"), and may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18796564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18796564", "title": "Helena Antonia", "text": "Helena Antonia\n\nHelena Antonia (1550–1595) was a bearded female court dwarf of Maria of Austria, Holy Roman Empress and was a favorite of Margaret of Austria, Queen of Spain, and also a lady-in-waiting for Constance of Austria. She was born in Liège.\n\n"}
{"id": "6208860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6208860", "title": "Hong Qigong", "text": "Hong Qigong\n\nHong Qi, better known as Hong Qigong, is a fictional character in the wuxia novel \"The Legend of the Condor Heroes\" and its sequel, \"The Return of the Condor Heroes\", by Jin Yong. Best known for his most powerful martial arts (the 'Eighteen Dragon-Subduing Palms' and the 'Dog Beating Staff Technique'), Hong Qigong is the chief of the Beggars' Sect and the \"Northern Beggar\" of the Five Greats. He is nicknamed \"Nine Fingered Divine Beggar\" after he severs one of his fingers to remind himself to be more time conscious as he has once failed a mission after overindulgence in fine cuisine. He plays a supporting role in the first novel by imparting his skills to Guo Jing and Huang Rong. Huang Rong succeeds him as the Beggars' Sect's chief. Although he appears as a happy-go-lucky old beggar who idles his time away, he actually uses his skills to help those in need and perform chivalrous deeds.\n\nLittle is known of Hong's past, except that he once mentioned that he was a slave of Jurchen officials in the Jin Empire before he joined the Beggars' Sect. He cut off his right forefinger in remorse after failing a mission, which cost a righteous man's life, because of his overindulgence in fine cuisine.\n\nHong Qigong makes his first appearance in the novel during Guo Jing and Huang Rong's first adventure. Huang Rong is preparing food and the fragrant scent titillates Hong Qigong's senses. He appears and asks to taste the food. Huang Rong examines his physical appearance closely, sees his Dog Beating Staff and missing finger, and concludes that he is the \"Northern Beggar\".\n\nHuang Rong asks Hong Qigong to teach Guo Jing martial arts. In return, she prepares fine cuisine every day for him. Hong Qigong succumbs to the temptation of delicious food and stays for almost a month with them. During that period of time, he teaches Guo Jing the 'Eighteen Dragon-Subduing Palms'. He was initially suspicious of Huang Rong when he recognises her as the daughter of his rival, Huang Yaoshi. He was reluctant to teach her martial arts but eventually imparts the 'Carefree Fist' to her.\n\nHong Qigong leaves them after that and meets them again during their encounter with Ouyang Ke. The lecherous Ouyang Ke was attempting to kidnap Cheng Yaojia and rape her, but Guo, Huang and members of the Beggars' Sect save her. Hong Qigong helps them drive away Ouyang Ke. He then formally accepts Guo Jing and Huang Rong as his students and imparts the full set of the 'Eighteen Dragon-Subduing Palms' to Guo Jing. He also teaches Huang Rong the 'Rain of Petals' skill.\n\nHong Qigong sets foot on Peach Blossom Island later and intervenes in the contest between Guo Jing and Ouyang Ke. Huang Yaoshi allows Hong Qigong, Guo Jing and Zhou Botong to leave Peach Blossom Island later on a damaged ship. The ship sinks in the middle of the sea but the trio are rescued by Ouyang Feng, whose ship sailed past the wreck. On board, Ouyang Feng uses all sorts of means to force Hong Qigong and Guo Jing to hand over the \"Nine Yin Manual\". However, they deliberately wrote a corrupted version of the manual (with verses written in reverse manner) for him, in hope that he will be weakened after practising the skills wrongly.\n\nHong Qigong and Ouyang Feng start fighting and the former was poisoned when the latter used snake venom on him, and the ship sank. Guo Jing and Huang Rong managed to rescue Hong Qigong and they settle on a nearby island. The Ouyangs also set foot on the island and the five of them are stranded there. Hong Qigong uses all his inner energy to heal himself by purging the poison from his body, but loses his powers in the process.\n\nHong Qigong decides to pass his position as the Beggars' Sect's chief to Huang Rong and teaches her the 'Dog Beating Staff Technique'. When Hong Qigong, Guo Jing and Huang Rong manage to leave the island, Hong follows them on their adventures together with Zhou Botong. They venture into the palace, where Hong Qigong says he wants to taste imperial cuisine again. When he meets his students again, Guo Jing and Huang Rong now have a better understanding of the \"Nine Yin Manual\" and they pass their knowledge to him to help him recover faster. Hong Qigong is briefly mentioned again in the scene on Mount Hua before the novel ends.\n\nHong Qigong makes a brief appearance in the sequel novel. He has regained his powers after losing them earlier in the first novel, and continues to roam the \"jianghu\" as a carefree old beggar hunting for culinary delights. He meets Yang Guo on Mount Hua and is impressed with the young man's chivalric nature. He also encounters his old rival, Ouyang Feng.\n\nHong Qigong and Ouyang Feng fight with each other again – this time for a period of four days. The fight is interrupted when Yang Guo comes at intervals to serve them meals. The animosity between the two rivals is too strong for them to bear and they continue to pit their inner energies against each other for a full day. Both of them suffer from exhaustion but are unwilling to back down to uphold their ego. They decide to use Yang Guo, who has been an observer for the past few days, as an intermediate. They teach Yang Guo their respective skills and ask him to perform for each other to see.\n\nHong Qigong teaches Yang Guo the 'Dog Beating Staff Technique'. Ouyang Feng had apparently lost after Yang Guo performed the last stance, 'No Dogs Under Heaven'. Ouyang Feng spends the following night thinking of a counter-move. The next morning, he asks Yang Guo to perform in front of Hong Qigong, who is shocked when he sees that Ouyang Feng has overcome his most powerful move. Hong Qigong finally realises that there will be no eventual victor between him and Ouyang Feng. He laughs hysterically and embraces his rival in defeat. At the same time, Ouyang Feng seems to have recovered from his insanity as he finally recognises Hong Qigong. The two of them die together in the midst of laughter and forgotten past feuds. Yang Guo buries them side by side on Mount Hua.\n\n"}
{"id": "57048520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57048520", "title": "Irina Tokmakova", "text": "Irina Tokmakova\n\nIrina Petrovna Tokmakova (née Manukova, 3 March 1929 — 5 April 2018) was a Soviet and Russian writer of children's books, a poet, playwright, and a translator of classic children's literature into Russian. Her translations of Tove Jansson, Astrid Lindgren and Kenneth Grahame's works were particularly renowned. She was a laureate of the State Prize of the Russian Federation for children's literature, and the Alexander Grin literary prize.\n\nIrina Manukova was born in Moscow to Perch Manukian (an Armenian, whose Russified name was Pyotr Manukov), an electrical engineer, and Lidia Diligenskaya, a paediatrician at a local orphanage.\n\nDuring the Second World War, she and her sister were sent to Penza to stay with relatives. For a while, there was no news from her parents, but some time later, her mother's orphanage was evacuated to Penza, and her parents were able to join her. They lived in Penza till 1943, after which they returned to Moscow, where the orphanage was re-established.\n\nManukova graduated from high school with a gold medal in 1948. She had been writing poetry from her childhood onwards, but feeling that she lacked a literary talent, she decided to take up a career in languages. In 1953, she graduated from the philological department of the Moscow State University. She then entered a postgraduate programme in general and comparative linguistics, and began to work as an interpreter.\n\nManukova married Leo Tokmakov, an illustrator. Their son, Vasily Tokmakov, also became a writer of children's fiction.\n\nIrina Tokmakova died in Moscow on 5 April 2018.\n\nThe first literary translation into Russian undertaken by Tokmakova was a collection of Swedish folk songs for children. These had been sent to her by a visiting Swedish energy executive named Borgqvist, who had recognised her love for Swedish song. Initially, the translation was meant for her son, but Tokmakova's husband took it to a publishing house, which then printed it in the magazines \"Merry pictures\" and \"Murzilka\".\n\nThe writers Samuil Marshak and Agniya Barto saw Tokmakova's works in \"Murzilka\" and encouraged her to write and publish more. Subsequently, Leo Tokmakov illustrated many of their books.\n\nTo join the Union of Soviet Writers, Tokmakova needed sponsorships from three members; Marshak, Boris Zakhoder and Valentin Berestov recommended her.\n\nHer first book of poetry, illustrated by Leo Tokmakov, was titled\"Trees\", and was published in 1962.\n\nTokmakova was able to travel abroad to attend international seminars and conferences on children's literature. She was a juror for the Hans Christian Andersen Award.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21254320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21254320", "title": "James Henry Northrop", "text": "James Henry Northrop\n\nJames Henry Northrop, (8 May 1856 – 12 December 1940) was born in Keighley, West Yorkshire in the United Kingdom, where he worked in the textile industry. He emigrated to Boston, MA, in the USA in 1881. By 1898, working in Hopedale, Massachusetts for George Draper and Sons he had filed several hundred patents some of which were used in the Northrop Loom. He retired at 42. He died in Santa Ana, California on 12 December 1940, at 84.\n\nHe started his working life in England, where he was a mechanic and factory foreman before emigrating to Massachusetts in 1881.\n\nHe moved to Hopedale, Massachusetts to work for George Draper and Sons. Here he invented the Northrop spooler guide. He unsuccessfully tried to be a chicken farmer. And it was there he worked on his shuttle-charger for Mr Otis Draper,who saw a model of the device on March 5, 1889. Draper was also developing the Rhoades shuttle-charger. Northrop was given a loom to test his idea. \nBy May 20 he had concluded that his first idea was not practical, and had thought of another idea, On July 5, the completed loom was running, and as it seemed to have more advantages than the Rhoades loom. The Northrop device was given a mill trial in October 1889 at the Seaconnett Mills in Fall River. More looms were constructed.\n\nMeanwhile he invented a self-threading shuttle and shuttle spring jaws to hold a bobbin by means of rings on the butt. This paved the way to his filling-changing battery of 1891, the basic feature of the Northrop Loom.\n\nThe development of a workable warp stop motion by other members of the Draper organization and marketing of the first Northrop looms in 1894 the textile industry achieved new levels of production. By 1900, Draper had sold over 60,000 Northrop looms, They were shipping 1500 a month, were employing 2500 men and enlarging their works to increase that output. \nHe married to Emily Driver of Keighley, Yorkshire and had 5 daughters. The Northrop loom sold well, so he was able to retire at the age of 42. He bought a fruit farm in Santa Ana, California where he grew dates and spent his time fishing.\n"}
{"id": "2795188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2795188", "title": "Janet Biehl", "text": "Janet Biehl\n\nJanet Biehl (born September 4, 1953) is an American political writer who is the author of numerous books and articles associated with social ecology, the body of ideas developed and publicized by Murray Bookchin. Formerly an advocate of his antistatist political program, she broke with it publicly in 2011. She works as a freelance copy editor for book publishers in New York. She currently focuses on translating, artmaking, and choral singing.\n\nBiehl grew up in Cincinnati, Ohio, and attended Wesleyan University, graduating in 1974 as a theater major. She studied acting as well as set and costume design at the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center. She then moved to New York City, where she appeared in off-off-Broadway productions, including the world premiere of \"Fefu and Her Friends\" by Maria Irene Fornes. Biehl studied drawing and watercolor painting at the Art Students League of New York. In 1985 she enrolled at the CUNY Graduate Center, where she earned an M.A. in liberal studies.\n\nIn 1986 she attended the Institute for Social Ecology, in Vermont, where she met the social theorist Murray Bookchin. In January 1987 she moved to Burlington, Vermont, to study further with Bookchin. They began a collaborative relationship to advance and promote social ecology.\n\nFrom 1987 to 2003 they co-wrote and co-published the theoretical newsletter \"Green Perspectives\", later renamed \"Left Green Perspectives\". Biehl edited and compiled \"The Murray Bookchin Reader\" (1997), which Bookchin considered to be the best introduction to his work. To summarize Bookchin's ideas on assembly democracy, known as libertarian municipalism, she wrote \"The Politics of Social Ecology: Libertarian Municipalism\" (1998). She wrote numerous articles about or related to Bookchin's ideas.\n\nSince Bookchin's death in 2006, she authored \"Ecology or Catastrophe: The Life of Murray Bookchin,\" published in 2015 by Oxford University Press. In 2011 Biehl separated from social ecology, explaining that she could no longer advocate an antistatist ideology. She blogged at Ecology or Catastrophe.\n\nBiehl is a supporter of the Kurdish freedom movement. After Abdullah Öcalan, leader of the insurgent Kurdistan Workers' Party, was captured and imprisoned in 1999, he became an avid reader of Bookchin's work in Turkish translation and recommended it to the movement. Drawing on libertarian municipalism, he formulated democratic confederalism as a political program, which the PKK adopted. In 2004 several intermediaries tried to arrange a dialogue between Bookchin and Öcalan but were unsuccessful due to Bookchin's failing health. In 2012 Biehl translated (from German to English) the book \"Democratic Autonomy in North Kurdistan\" by the solidarity group TATORT Kurdistan, a field study of democratic institutions built by the Kurdish movement in southeastern Turkey to implement democratic confederalism.\n\nIn 2014 and 2015 she visited Rojava, the mostly Kurdish region of northern Syria. There the Kurdish movement is attempting, in wartime conditions, to implement democratic confederalism, gender equality, and ecology. She published several articles about her visits.\n\nIn October 2016 her translation of \"Revolution in Rojava: Democratic Autonomy and Women's Liberation in Northern Syria,\" written by Michael Knapp, Anja Flach, and Ercan Ayboga, was published by Pluto Press. Biehl is currently translating (German to English) the three-volume memoirs of Sakine Cansiz, a co-founder of the PKK in 1978 and progenitor of today's strong Kurdish women's movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5214684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5214684", "title": "Jean-Luc Godard filmography", "text": "Jean-Luc Godard filmography\n\nJean-Luc Godard is a prolific French-Swiss film director, screenwriter and film editor whose career spans over sixty years. He has directed, written, produced and edited many films. The following attempts to be a comprehensive filmography.\n\nAlthough Godard and Jean-Pierre Gorin were the principal creative forces behind these films, they usually went without on-screen credit. Most of the films from this time period were credited to the Dziga Vertov Group collective. \n"}
{"id": "11999252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11999252", "title": "John Gadsby Chapman", "text": "John Gadsby Chapman\n\nJohn Gadsby Chapman (December 3, 1808 – November 28, 1889) was an American artist famous for \"Baptism of Pocahontas\", which was commissioned by the United States Congress and hangs in the United States Capitol rotunda.\n\nJohn Chapman was born in 1808 in Alexandria, Virginia. Chapman began his study of art in Philadelphia for two years, then departed for Europe where he eventually spent time in Italy. In 1831, Chapman returned to his hometown of Alexandria, and exhibited his artwork in the nearest metropolitan areas, such as Washington, D.C., Richmond, and Philadelphia. He specialized in landscapes and portraits.\n\nBy 1834, Chapman had moved to New York City and become a member of the National Academy of Design, and found work as an illustrator. In New York, Chapman embarked on a series of historical paintings, such as \"Landing at Jamestown\" and the \"Crowning of Powhatan\". The success of these paintings helped Chapman land a commission from the United States Congress in February 1837 to paint a historical scene for the rotunda of the Capitol building. For this work, Chapman received a total payment of $10,000. On November 30, 1840, \"Baptism of Pocahontas\" was formally unveiled in the Capitol rotunda.\n\nBesides historical paintings and portraits, Chapman also produced wood engravings and etchings, and frequently contributed illustrations to Harper Brothers' publications. Chapman's \"American Drawing Book\", published in 1847, became a standard text for art students.\n\nOn the swell of these successes, Chapman moved his family to Rome, and made an earnest living selling paintings of rural Campania to American visitors. However, at the onset of the American Civil War, the tourist industry dried up, affecting Chapman's fortunes greatly. In addition, Chapman's own son, Conrad Wise Chapman, returned to America to fight on the side of the Confederate States of America.\n\nThe economic deprivation inflicted on Chapman during the 1860s became insurmountable. In Rome, he was forced to live off the kindness of fellow expatriates, and finally returned to America, sick and poor, to spend his last days with another son, John Linton Chapman, in Brooklyn, New York. It was there, in 1889, that he died a pauper.\n\n\n\nJohn F. McGuigan Jr. and Mary K. McGuigan, \"John Gadsby Chapman: America’s First Artist-Etcher. With a Catalogue of His Italian Etchings\".\nHarpswell, ME: Arcady Editions, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "52463949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52463949", "title": "John Page Hopps", "text": "John Page Hopps\n\nJohn Page Hopps (6 November 1834 - 6 April 1911) was a Unitarian minister and spiritualist.\n\nHopps was born in London. He was educated at the General Baptist College, Leicester. He worked as George Dawson's assistant at the Church of the Saviour, Birmingham and from 1860 to 1876 he ministered to Unitarians. He was a minister at the Unitarian Church in Bath Street, Glasgow. Hopps was a convinced spiritualist and was influenced by William Howitt and C. F. Varley. He had unified his unitarianism with spiritualism by arguing the bible was a record of spirit communication.\n\nIn a lecture for the London Spiritualist Alliance, Hopps supported biological evolution and spiritualism.\n\nHe created and edited the monthly periodical \"The Truthseeker\" (1863-1887). Hopps also edited a spiritualist newspaper \"Daybreak\", which was absorbed into the weekly spiritualist newspaper \"The Medium and Daybreak\" of James Burns. In 1886 his \"Letter to a Radical Member of Parliament\" advocating women's suffrage was published in the Manchester-based \"Women's Suffrage Journal\". In it he wrote, \"I do not believe that women would hinder progress. I think that as [to] questions relating to peace and war, social purity, and the doing of equal justice to all, they would help us on. But if the reverse were the case, what right have we to deny them the suffrage for \"that\" reason? Who is the infallible judge as to what 'progress' is, and who gave that judge the right to have \"his\" way?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "516813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=516813", "title": "John Porter East", "text": "John Porter East\n\nJohn Porter East (May 5, 1931 – June 29, 1986) was a Republican U.S. senator from the state of North Carolina from 1981 until his suicide in 1986.\n\nA paraplegic since 1955, because of polio, East was a professor of political science at East Carolina University in Greenville and a protégé of conservative Senator Jesse Helms. East ran unsuccessfully for a vacancy in the United States House of Representatives in a special election in 1966, a race won by Walter B. Jones, Sr..\n\nIn 1980, with the benefit of Ronald Reagan's North Carolina influence, East narrowly defeated incumbent Democratic Senator Robert Burren Morgan, largely on the strength of political advertising about Morgan's involvement with the turnover of the Panama Canal to the government of Panama. In the Senate, he earned a reputation as a staunch social conservative, especially on the issue of abortion. Alongside Jesse Helms, East led opposition to the bill to create a federal holiday to honor Martin Luther King, Jr. in 1983. In 1986, he announced that he would not seek re-election, and would instead return to his teaching position. That summer, East, suffering from hypothyroidism, killed himself (for reasons that are still unclear) at his North Carolina home.\n\nJohn Porter East was born in Springfield, Illinois on May 5, 1931, the son of an employee of the State of Illinois. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Earlham College in Indiana where he was left tackle on the football team. After his graduation in 1953, he married Priscilla Sherk and was commissioned as an officer in the United States Marine Corps. In 1955, East contracted polio while serving at Camp Lejeune. He would never walk again. He received a LL.B. degree from the University of Illinois College of Law and practiced law in Naples, Florida for one year. He went on to receive his M.A. and Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Florida.\n\nOn Friday, June 27, 1986, Senator East completed work on the book galleys of his collected essays. He met with Supreme Court nominee Antonin Scalia. Then, commitments met, the Senator drove to Greenville with his aide, John Petree, and arrived home about noon on Saturday. Petree stayed with him until daughter Kathryn arrived for a visit. Kathryn left her father \"in good spirits\" about midnight. Petree returned to East's house on Sunday morning, June 29. He found the front door ajar. The senator was dead in his garage, a victim of suicide by carbon monoxide poisoning.\nNorth Carolina Governor James G. Martin appointed U.S. Representative James Thomas Broyhill to serve out the rest of East's term. Broyhill was later defeated in his election bid in November 1986 by former Democratic Governor Terry Sanford.\n\nEast is buried in Arlington National Cemetery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9504632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9504632", "title": "Kakori Shaikh", "text": "Kakori Shaikh\n\nThe Kakorvi Shaikhs are a Muslim community found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. They are also found in the province of Sindh in Pakistan, particularly the city of Karachi.\n\nThe town of Kakori in Lucknow district is home to a number of Alavi and Abbasi families, and word Kakorvi Shaikh literally means the Shaikhs of the town of Kakori. The term Shaikh (Arabic: , \"shaykh\"; pl. \"shuyūkh\"), is a word or honorific term in the Arabic language that literally means \"elder.\" It is commonly used to designate an elder of a tribe, a revered wise man, or an Islamic scholar. In India, the Shaikh title is used by the descendants of Arab and other Muslim immigrants who settled in South Asia, and signifies Arab descent. From the beginning of Muslim rule in South Asia in 713 AD, technocrats, bureaucrats, soldiers, traders, scientists, architects, teachers, theologians and Sufis flocked from the rest of the Muslim world, to the Islamic Sultanate in South Asia and settled permanently. The descendants of these Arabs usually use the title of \"Shaikh\". These Shaikh family often claim descent from the early Caliphs of Islam.\n\nThe of Kakorvi Shaikh are sometimes referred to as Moulvizadigan (Moulvis) and Makhdoomzadigan (Makhdooms), Alavis indicating that they are descendants of Mullah Abu Bakr Jami Alavi, who settled in Kakori in 1461 and/or descendants of Qari Amir Saifuddin Alavi, who settled in Kakori in 1512.They belong by and large to the Alavi and Abbasi families, who settled in the Awadh region from the 12th.Century onwards. According to a classical Urdu work, the \"Nafhatun Nasim\", which is a record of scions of a 16th-century sage Mullah Abdul Karim Alavi and which was later published by Amir Ahmed Alavi in 1934, and is an historic account of the settlement of these Alavi Shaikhs in the town of Kakori. The name Alavi () signifies ancestry from Ali ibn Abi Talib (), the fourth Caliph of Sunni Islam and the first Imam in Shia Islam. Ali was the cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad. In addition, the other major group Shaikh settled in Kakori are the Abbasis. The name denotes descent from Abbas ibn Abd-al-Muttalib, the paternal uncle of Muhammad. The Abbasid caliphate was established by the Abbasi clan and ruled the Middle East during 750–1258AD (510 years). The Hashmities are mainly in Karachi. \n\nThe \"Abbasiyan-i- Kakori\", is the family tree of Kakorian Abbasi families by Muhammad Hasan Abbasi which was published in 1945. In its present form, \"Hashimites of Kakori\" contains genealogical records of an intricate familial hierarchy that evolved predominantly from three houses, the \"Moulvis, Makhdooms\" [cf Alavi] and \"Qazis\" [cf Abbasi]. The patriarchs of all three houses were émigrés hailing from the Banu Hashim clan [cf Hashemites] of the Quraysh tribe of Hejaz (in present-day Saudi Arabia) [\"cf\" Banu Quraysh], who settled in Kakori since the early advent of Islam in the region, back in the 15th century.\n\nTheir ensuing generations, being passionate in their resolve to protect their Arab heritage, have fostered matrimonial alliances preferentially with the people of authentic Arab descent to embrace allies into their folds, thereby, cultivating a very tradition-bound society with its home in Kakori until the diaspora following the foundation of Pakistan in 1947. Today, \"Kakorian Hashimites\" are spread far and wide across Australia, Canada, Europe, India, Middle East, Pakistan, UK, and USA. The website \"Hashimites of Kakori\", compiled and hosted by Dr. Misbahuddin Zafar Alavi of Canada since 2006, is one of the largest listing of Alavi and Abbasi families comprising over 10,000 interlinked records spanning almost 1600 years showing in some cases 50 generations of Alavi and 60 generations of Abbasi families.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2916444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2916444", "title": "Kendall Simmons", "text": "Kendall Simmons\n\nHenry Alexander Kendall Simmons (born March 11, 1979) is a former American football guard. He was drafted by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the first round of the 2002 NFL Draft. He played college football at Auburn.\n\nHe was also a member of the New England Patriots and Buffalo Bills.\n\nSimmons grew up in Ripley, Mississippi. He was a three-year starter at Ripley (Miss.) High, where he was named an All-State and PrepStar All-America selection as a senior defensive lineman after a season when he recorded 70 tackles and four sacks, forced five fumbles and returned one for a touchdown. Simmons was named District Defensive Most Valuable Player and was voted Clarion-Ledger \"Top 10\" and No. 2 offensive line prospect in Mississippi. He was a Commercial Appeal \"Mid-South Top 100\" and was chosen to play in the Alabama-Mississippi All-Star Game. He also played baseball and basketball.\n\nBefore the 2003 season, Simmons was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes.\n\nSimmons started the first two years of his career. After being hurt all of 2004 he came back in 2005, and started all 20 games and won Super Bowl XL with the Steelers.\n\nSimmons experienced an off-the-field injury during the 2006 NFL season. While rehabbing a heel injury, Simmons suffered a frostbite-like burn to his left foot after he fell asleep with a cooling device attached to his foot.\n\nOn September 3, 2007, Simmons signed a four-year extension with the Steelers, keeping him with the club through the 2010 NFL season.\n\nSimmons suffered a season-ending injury to his Achilles tendon during a Monday Night Football contest against the Baltimore Ravens on September 29, 2008. He was subsequently placed on season-ending injured reserve.\n\nHe was released by the Steelers on February 26, 2009.\n\nSimmons signed a three-year contract with the New England Patriots on September 6, 2009 and was released on November 6, 2009.\n\nSimmons was signed by the Buffalo Bills on November 24, 2009. On December 18, Simmons was placed on Injured Reserve due to a shoulder injury. He announced his retirement from football in 2011, and now lives in Auburn.\n\n2. Simmons out with frostbite-like burn\n\n"}
{"id": "37946270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37946270", "title": "Kerry Goode", "text": "Kerry Goode\n\nKerry Goode (born July 28, 1965) is a former professional American football player who played running back for four seasons for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Miami Dolphins.\n\nKerry lead the Hazlewood Golden Bears to state championships both his junior and senior year while being selected as 2A player of the year in football. \n\nHe is brother to Chris Goode Pierre Goode, Clyde Goode III and cousin to Antonio Langham. All of these men played their college football at Alabama. Where Kerry was the freshman of year in the Southeastern Conference in 1983.\n\nHe coached for the NFL New York Giants 1993-96, and St. Louis Rams 1997-99. Kerry was diagnosed with the Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig disease) in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "55637855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55637855", "title": "Mariam Mint Ahmed Aicha", "text": "Mariam Mint Ahmed Aicha\n\nMariam Mint Ahmed Aicha is a Mauritanian politician. Her name is sometimes given as Mariam Mint Ahmed Aiche or Mariam bint Ahmed Aiche. From 1992 until 1994 she served as Minister of Women's Affairs; from 1994 until 1995 she was Secretary of Women's Affairs.\n"}
{"id": "38801266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38801266", "title": "Mary Georgina Filmer", "text": "Mary Georgina Filmer\n\nLady Mary Georgina Filmer (née Cecil, 4 April 1838 – 17 March 1903) was an early proponent of the art of photographic collage.\n\nA Victorian socialite, Lady Filmer produced several albums consisting of watercolour scenes decorated with photomontages. One of her works (from the so-called \"Filmer Album\") depicts a drawing room, painted in watercolour, in which she has added photographic cut-outs from albumen silver prints. She positions herself next to a large figure of the Prince of Wales, with whom she was known to flirt. Her albums and glue pot are set out on a large table beside her. Much smaller, Sir Edmund Filmer, her husband, is seated next to a pet dog. In 2010, the work was included in an exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art titled \"Playing With Pictures: The Art of Victorian Photocollage\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14372374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14372374", "title": "María Santos Corrales", "text": "María Santos Corrales\n\nMaría Santos Corrales (November 1, 1797 – 1881) was the inspiration of Peru's famous poet and patriot soldier, Mariano Melgar; she is forever immortalized as \"Silvia\" in his poetry.\n\nMaría Santos Corrales was born on November 1, 1797 (All Saint's Day) in Arequipa, Peru. She was the daughter of José Corrales and Sanabría Manuela Salazar. María Santos and Mariano Melgar knew each other due to their kinship – their fathers were first cousins. Their bonds of kinship were reinforced on February 8, 1812, with the marriage of María Santos's brother (Romualdo) and Mariano's sister (María Josefa). Only 14 years old at the time, María Santos rejected any romantic advances by Mariano Melgar (who was 21). Disillusioned, Mariano left Arequipa and eventually joined the pro-revolutionary forces. He fought at the Battle of Umachiri, where he was captured by royalist forces and executed on March 12, 1815.\n\nOn November 24, 1819, María Santos Corrales married a veteran of the Battle of Umachiri and soldier in arms of Mariano Melgar – Dr. and Col. Manuel Amat y León. They had nine children. María Santos Corrales died on March 8, 1881, in Arequipa, Peru at the age of 83.\n\n\"Coronel y Dr. Dn. Manuel Amat y León, Biografía Histórica,\"\nArtemio Peraltilla Diaz,\nArequipa, 17 de Mayo de 1969, \nImprenta Editorial “El Sol” – Sucre 306\n\n"}
{"id": "32674889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32674889", "title": "Michael Mirdad", "text": "Michael Mirdad\n\nMichael Mirdad is a spiritual and metaphysical teacher, keynote speaker, self-help and new age author, and an intuitive healer and counselor who specializes in Christ consciousness, spiritual mastery, healthy relationships, sacred sexuality, spiritual healing, and A Course in Miracles. His teaching encourages the awareness of love, and light. Currently serving as the Spiritual Leader at Unity of Sedona, he has worked as a healer and spiritual counselor for over 35 years and is the author of the books: \"The Seven Initiations of the Spiritual Path\", \"The Heart of a Course in Miracles,\" \"Sacred Sexuality: A Manual for Living Bliss\", \"You’re Not Going Crazy, You’re Just Waking Up\", \"An Introduction to Tantra and Sacred Sexuality\", \"Healing the Heart & Soul: A Five-Step, Soul-Level Healing Process for Transforming Your Life\", \"The Book of Love and Forgiveness\" and \"Creating Fulfilling Relationships\".\n\nMichael Mirdad has facilitated thousands of classes, lectures, and workshops throughout the world on mastery, spirituality, relationships, A Course in Miracles, and healing. He has been featured as a keynote speaker in expos and conferences worldwide, and has been interviewed on many radio, television, and internet programs. His work has been published in magazines including \"Conscious Life Times\", \"Whole Self Times\", \"Sedona Journal\", \"Yoga Journal\", \"Evolve\" magazine, and \"OM Times Magazine\".\n\nMichael Mirdad has written eight books to date that aim to assist readers on the path to wholeness and help them live lives of balance and peace. The topics relate to teachings found in A Course in Miracles including spiritual initiation, unconditional love, personal transformation and soul-level healing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33416368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33416368", "title": "Mikko Hyppönen", "text": "Mikko Hyppönen\n\nMikko Hermanni Hyppönen (; born 1969 in Finland) is a computer security expert and columnist. He's known for the Hypponen Law about IoT security.\n\nMikko Hyppönen is Chief Research Officer at F-Secure. He has worked at F-Secure in Finland since 1991.\n\nHyppönen has assisted law enforcement in the United States, Europe and Asia since the 1990s on cybercrime cases and advises governments on cyber crime. His team took down the Sobig.F botnet.\n\nIn 2004, Hyppönen cooperated with Vanity Fair on a feature, \"The Code Warrior\", which examined his role in the Blaster and Sobig Computer worms.\n\nHyppönen has given keynotes and presentations at a number of conferences around the world, including Black Hat, DEF CON, DLD, and RSA. In addition to data security events, Hyppönen has delivered talks at general-interest events, such as TED, TEDx, DLD, SXSW, Slush and Google Zeitgeist. He's also spoken at various military events, including AFCEA events and the NATO CCD COE's ICCC. Hyppönen is a reserve officer in the Finnish Army.\n\nHyppönen is a member of the advisory board of IMPACT (International Multilateral Partnership Against Cyber Threats) since 2007 together with Yevgeny Kaspersky, Hamadoun Touré, Fred Piper and John Thompson.\n\nHyppönen is a columnist for BetaNews and Wired. He has also written on his research for CNN, The New York Times and Scientific American.\n\nIn 2011, he was ranked 61st in \"Foreign Policy\"s Top 100 Global Thinkers report.\n\nHyppönen coined the term \"Cybercrime Unicorns\" to describe cybercrime organizations that are worth over a billion US dollars - a reference to Startup unicorns\n\nHyppönen made international news in 2011 when he tracked down and visited the authors of the first PC virus in history, Brain.A. Hyppönen produced a documentary of the event. The documentary was published on YouTube.\n\nHyppönen has also been documenting the rise of mobile phone malware since the first smartphone viruses were found.\n\nThe blog \"News from the Lab\", started by Hyppönen in 2004 was the first blog from any antivirus company.\n\nHyppönen has been credited by Twitter for improving Twitter's security.\n\nMr. Hyppönen has been the Curator for the Malware Museum at The Internet Archive since 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4194998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4194998", "title": "Muhammad Atta-ullah Faizani", "text": "Muhammad Atta-ullah Faizani\n\nMuhammad Atta-ullah Faizani was an Afghan Islamic scholar. He was born 17 April 1923 (the twenty-first day of Ramadan of that year) in Herat, Afghanistan to a family of \"miagan\" (religious scholars descended from a great Islamic saint). The honorific \"Faizani\", a derivation of an Arabic word which denotes something that overflows with God's light (blessings), was bestowed upon him by the imam of the Kaaba during his Hajj.\n\nAs a child Faizani was home-schooled in the traditional Afghan manner. Entering his teens, Faizani studied at a High School in Herat and finally at Kabul University, where he graduated in 1941. For eight years following his graduation he served as a High School principal in his hometown until a passion for God overcame him. At this time Faizani left home and traveled widely throughout the Islamic world of the mid-20th century seeking knowledge of Islam and its various practices.\n\nAs this period of traveling drew to a close, there came an intensification of his spiritual rigor and practices. He returned to Herat and secluded himself within a cave at a local mosque. There he remained for five years performing ascetic practices including long periods of fasting, \"Zhikr\" and \"fikr\" (also called \"taffakkur\" or deep contemplation). \"Taffakkur\" is a technique by which the practitioner \"contemplates the Magnificence and Perfection of Glorious God in the creation.\"\n\nAfter a spiritual incident at the end of his ascetic practices, he began wandering again and wound up in Mazari Sharif. Upon arriving in the city, Faizani was overcome by the overt materialism of the elite and their unIslamic practices, based more upon tribalism and traditional power structures than upon brotherhood and religious sentiment. In response, Faizani began preaching, filling his sermons with the fire of moral and spiritual discontent. His critical sermons addressed the corrupt political practices that surrounded the people of Mazar-i-Sharif and he spared neither cleric, nor government official, nor the landlords who participated in the crude feudalism of their country of that time. However, as is the norm when spiritual luminaries criticize established authorities in \"developing\" nations, Faizani quickly became a target for men of great power who did not want to upset the status quo.\n\nHe was arrested and put in prison.\n\nAfter his first imprisonment, his public life consisted of good works (charity, teaching, and spreading Islam), exercising public responsibility, and suffering short prison sentences for upsetting the secular authorities. Between these incarcerations, Faizani was able to create a library in Pul-i-Khumri (in Baghlan Province). It was here that Faizani attracted a large following of professionals (teachers and government officials), military personnel, and students. In time, his followers encompassed both Sunni and Shiite Muslims, an accomplishment not repeated by other groups in Afghanistan. To this day, the school of Islam that he initiated, the Madrassa-e Tawheed, consists of both Sunnis and Shi'ites.\n\nThe philosophy of the Madrassa-e Tawheed was unique in Afghanistan and promulgated the fusion of modern science and religion, hence its attraction among the young university students of that time who required more from Islam than just interpretations and \"fatwas\" given by the established, traditional \"mullahs\" out of touch with modern developments in science, technology, and politics. Additionally, the \"madrassa\" developed an intensive program of \"Zhikr\" (remembrance of Allah) and \"Fikr\" (\"tafakkur\"), which was also well-suited to military personnel stationed in far-flung and out of the way locales (a common occurrence in Afghanistan).\n\nIn 1969, Faizani organized the Religious Scholars' Uprising at the Pul-i Khisti mosque in Kabul. Although the authorities thought that this protest would dissipate after a short while, the protest grew in numbers and persisted for weeks. To halt the demonstrations, the government cracked down on the restive demonstrators and imprisoned many of the protest's leaders, including Faizani. This was to be Faizani's fifth stint in prison and lasted a year and a half.\n\nUpon his release, Faizani purchased a building next to the Pul-i Khisti mosque and started a library and book business selling only those books that he had actually read himself. At this time, Faizani also organized and managed zikr circles and invited members of the government, military, and scholastic institutions. The intention being to transform society by first transforming the self. It was through these meetings that Faizani eventually formed the political party Hizb-i Tawheed.\n\nTo eliminate Faizani's strong influence among the upper echelons of Afghan society (especially among the military elites), in 1973 President Daoud of Afghanistan and his Communist advisors accused the Hizb-i Tawheed of organizing a coup d'etat. This accusation led to the final imprisonment of Faizani and hundreds of his disciples. It was during this last imprisonment that he suffered the cruelest tortures, including having his beard plucked out one hair at a time, being continually whipped, electrocuted, and having his teeth crushed.\n\nAll through this time, Faizani continually wrote books to his followers and would have each page secretly spirited out by his visitors. These pages would later be collected and the books published. In total, he is credited with having written 52 books on topics as diverse as \"taffakkur\" (\"fikr\"), \"Zikr\", \"Fiqh\", conditional and unconditional worship, etc.\n\nFaizani disappeared from prison in 1979 shortly after the communist Khalqis came to power. It is believed by some that he was executed by this regime.\n\nThe continuation of his work and teachings since then has been strongly supported in established schools in Afghanistan and in other countries by his students, led by his son, Ustad Mazhabi Sahib. The Madrassa-e Tawheed continues to this day and has established schools in various Western nations including large numbers in Germany, France, Canada, and the United States.\n\nHis religious learning includes:\n\nFaizani speaks Pashto, Persian, and Arabic. His son, Ustad Mazhabi Sahib (the present leader of Madrassa-e Tawheed), speaks Pashto, Persian, Arabic, and English.\n\nFaizani has written fifty two volumes covering the various spiritual sciences. He is unique in that his teachings discuss 20th century faith and how the practitioner must use science and the creation as experienced through the five senses to establish the proof and certainty of belief in God.\n\nThe titles of seven volumes which make up a special series of \"Goblets for the fortification faith\", are:\n\nThe common point in all the writer's works is that all topics are extracted from the Qur'an, and are strongly affirmed by Qur'anic understanding. The works include references to relevant Qur'anic verses and hadith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40667740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40667740", "title": "Plays and films of Sacha Guitry", "text": "Plays and films of Sacha Guitry\n\nThe French actor, writer, manager and director, Sacha Guitry had a prolific output of plays and films. His stage works range from historical dramas to contemporary light comedies. Some have musical scores, by composers including André Messager and Reynaldo Hahn. During the era of silent films Guitry avoided them, finding the lack of spoken dialogue fatal to dramatic impact. From the 1930s to the end of his life he enthusiastically embraced the cinema, making as many as five films in a single year.\n\n\nExcept where otherwise stated, Guitry took part in all his films as director, screenplay writer, dialogue writer, and actor.\n"}
{"id": "32081868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32081868", "title": "Robin Scorpio", "text": "Robin Scorpio\n\nRobin Scorpio is a fictional character from the ABC Daytime soap opera \"General Hospital\" and its primetime SOAPnet spin-off \"\", originated and portrayed by Kimberly McCullough on and off for over 30 years since 1985. The character came to mainstream attention during a 1990s story arc where her boyfriend Stone Cates dies from AIDS and Robin is diagnosed as HIV-positive. Robin is also famous in the soap community for having been one of the few long-term soap characters to age in real time, not SORASed like most other child actors.\n\nA seven-year-old McCullough was one of three actresses narrowed down for the part of five-year-old Robin, and was brought in to screen test with her on-screen parents Finola Hughes (Anna Devane) and Tristan Rogers (Robert Scorpio). Hughes recalled the event to MSN TV: \"We just started improvising with her, like anything. We were throwing things at her and she was just talking away. Tristan and I were looking at each other over her head going, 'This is it! This is what we wanted.'\" Improvisation skills were key for \"General Hospital\"'s process in the 1980s. As Hughes explained: \"It was very improvised. Very loose. We used to just talk around the plot and maybe every now and again dip our toe in the actual storyline.\"\n\nMcCullough debuted on September 6, 1985, and stayed with the series until September 12, 1996. Afterwards, she returned as a series regular for brief stints: January 17, 1997 to February 3, 1997; March 12, 1997 to April 8, 1997; June 23, 1997 to August 8, 1997; December 11, 1997 to January 20, 1999; June 20–21, 2000 (for The Nurses' Ball); and July 16, 2004. She appeared on \"Port Charles\" in 1998, for one episode. She also appeared on May 30 to June 4, 2001 on \"All My Children\" when Robin reunited with her mother Anna. McCullough returned to General Hospital as Robin on July 16, 2004 for the funeral of Lila Quartermaine before rejoining the soap full-time on October 12, 2005. She also appeared on both seasons of the spin-off series \"General Hospital: Night Shift\" in 2007 and 2008.\n\nFor her work as Robin, McCullough has won two Daytime Emmy Awards, one for Outstanding Juvenile Female in 1989 and one for Outstanding Younger Actress in 1996. McCullough also earned two \"Soap Opera Digest\" Awards, for Outstanding Youth Actor/Actress in 1986 and Outstanding Child Actor in 1993, as well as a 1987 Young Artist Award.\n\nIn November 2011, McCullough announced her plans to leave \"General Hospital\" in the early months of 2012 to pursue her dream of directing full-time. This came only weeks after a controversial plot, where Lisa Niles (portrayed by Brianna Brown) threatens to inject Robin's blood into her husband, Patrick Drake, which was hard on McCullough and her co-star Jason Thompson considering Robin's critically acclaimed HIV-story. While the character was killed off on February 21, 2012, McCullough continued to make several appearances as an apparition in numerous scenes with her loved ones. Frank Valentini, Ron Carlivati and McCullough discussed her departure, and Carlivati, who was uncomfortable with the idea of Robin being \"completely dead\", rewrote her story. McCullough's scene on March 27, 2012 showed Robin to be alive, leaving the door open for her to return.\n\nOn July 16, 2012, \"Soap Opera Digest\" announced that McCullough would return to the series for a series of guest spots. She started her series of guest starring spots on July 19, 2012 and lasted until July 27, 2012. In the fall of 2012, Soap Opera Digest confirmed that McCullough would reprise her role as Robin starting on November 6 until December 19, 2012. She guest-starred for one episode on March 25, 2013, in a video message Robin left for Patrick.\n\nOn August 21, 2013, \"Soap Opera Digest\" exclusively confirmed that McCullough had signed a contract to return to the series. McCullough made her on-screen return on September 30, 2013. In January 2014, McCullough confirmed her exit from the series once more, last airing on March 4, 2014. On June 23, 2014, McCullough revealed on her Twitter account that she's received \"GH\" scripts, this was later confirmed by Valentini that McCullough would be returning as Robin in the summer. Her first airdate back was on August 5, 2014 and she last aired on September 24, 2014. On January 19, 2015, McCullough guest-starred for one episode as Robin. In October 2015, it was announced that she would once again reprise the role of Robin in November. McCullough aired on November 13, 2015, and departed on January 7, 2016.\n\nIn April 2016, it was revealed that McCullough was to briefly return for The Nurses' Ball, first appearing on May 9 and departing on May 27.\n\nIn October 2016, it was revealed that McCullough will be reprising the role, first appearing on October 27 and departing on November 1. In December 2016, McCullough returned for yet another arc, appearing on December 28 and departing on January 19, 2017. McCullough reappeared from February 20, 2017 until March 10, 2017.\n\nIn April 2017, Valentini revealed that McCullough was back on-set of the soap for further appearances. McCullough returned for two episodes on May 18 and 19.\n\nIn November 2017, it was announced that McCullough would reprise the role again to facilitate Steve Burton's return to the series. McCullough returned on November 17 and departed on December 4.\n\nMcCullough returned from February 6 to 13, 2018, for the funeral of Nathan West. In April 2018, it was reported that McCullough would made a short-term appearance for the Nurses Ball. McCullough made her return from May 16 to 21, 2018.\n\nMcCullough made more appearance on June 6, 2018 and September 12, 2018.\n\nRobin Soltini arrives in Port Charles with the woman she believes to be her grandmother, Filomena Soltini. She had grown up thinking her mother, Anna Devane, was a family friend. Her father, Robert Scorpio, has no idea that he shares a daughter with Anna and is surprised to find Robin in his living room. During her childhood, Robin's grandmother is killed and she is faced with threats from enemies of her parents such as Cesar Faison, Grant Putnam and Olivia St. John and she also faces tough times when her parents are supposedly murdered in an explosion. She is then raised by her Uncle Mac Scorpio.\n\nIn 1993, Robin meets Michael \"Stone\" Cates (Michael Sutton), and although they initially do not get along, they began dating in 1994 against her Uncle Mac's wishes. Stone had been a street kid now taken in and working for Sonny Corinthos (Maurice Benard). In 1995, Stone learns he is HIV+ and eventually contracts AIDS due to his length of time without treatment. After his first HIV test came back negative, he did not take another one six months later. Robin and her family are shocked to learn that she is also HIV+. Robin and Stone fall deeply in love, and she is devastated when Stone eventually dies from AIDS. Robin is at Jason Morgan (Steve Burton)'s bedside when he wakes up from a coma following a car accident caused by his brother (Sean Kanan). A few months later, they begin to bond and start dating. Jason helps Robin cope with Stone's death and her medical status, while Robin helps Jason cope with his memory loss following the accident. They fall in love despite protests from her uncle Mac Scorpio (John J. York). She introduces him to Sonny Corinthos, soon his employer, and the three become friends. Robin eventually enrolls in school at Yale, returning on weekends and holidays to visit. After an emotional break-up with Jason due to his involvement with the mob, Robin leaves Port Charles. She returns in 1998 to help her best friend Brenda Barrett (Vanessa Marcil) from her recent break-up. During this time, Robin becomes friends with Nikolas Cassadine (Tyler Christopher) and the two bond over their similar childhoods. Robin reconciles with Jason and they move in together with baby Michael, who Jason is taking care of for his friend Carly. However, their relationship begins to deteriorate when Carly moves home and into their cottage. Robin eventually reveals to Jason's brother A.J. (Billy Warlock) that he (and not Jason) is the father of Carly's son. Jason is furious and they end their relationship. Robin leaves town heartbroken in 1999, moving to Paris. In 2001, Robin travels to Pine Valley, Pennsylvania where she is reunited with her mother Anna.\n\nRobin returns to Port Charles in 2005 to help save Jason Morgan's life, and brings Patrick Drake (Jason Thompson) to town to operate. Robin and Patrick bicker and flirt, and eventually start dating despite Patrick's anti-commitment reputation. They work together during an encephalitis outbreak in February 2006. The crisis brings Robin's presumed-dead father to town, Robert Scorpio (Tristan Rogers), but he leaves shortly thereafter. Robin sees him again when she joins Lulu Spencer (then Julie Marie Berman) and Dillon Quartermaine (Scott Clifton) to the Markham Islands to rescue Robert and Luke Spencer (Anthony Geary). She also sees her mother Anna Devane, having previously found out she was alive and reunited with her in 2001 in Pine Valley. Meanwhile, Robin and Patrick admit their love for one another. In late 2006, they help Luke Spencer reconnect with his catatonic wife, Laura, with an experimental drug. In early 2007, Robin is part of a group held hostage at the Metro Court Hotel and is shot in the abdomen because the district attorney was Sonny's half-brother Ric Lansing (Rick Hearst). A few months later, Robin realizes she wants to have a child while Patrick strongly does not, and they break up after befriending Ric. In late 2007, after the funeral of her cousin Georgie Jones (Lindze Letherman), Robin goes to Patrick for comfort and they sleep together. Robin discovers she is pregnant, but does not tell Patrick since she had been planning on using a sperm donor. Patrick figures out the truth, and the couple slowly starts to become close again. In the summer of 2008, Robin's father is diagnosed with colon cancer but pulls through. Patrick proposes to Robin but she turns him down. They eventually plan an October wedding, which is cut short when Robin goes into labor. Robin names the baby Emma Grace Scorpio-Drake, who, after a brief scare, is shown not to be infected by Robin's HIV. Patrick and Robin wed the day after Christmas.\n\nIn early 2009, Robin begins suffering from postpartum depression. After months of refusing help, she agrees to treatment and eventually bonds with her daughter. In early 2010, Robin and Patrick begin to bicker. In June, Robin takes a trip to Africa to help with an AIDS program. Patrick is upset to not be included in her decision, and voices his jealousy over her connection to her late boyfriend Stone. The night Robin returns, Patrick sleeps with Lisa Niles (Brianna Brown). Lisa slowly begins to show her jealousy after Patrick refuses to sleep with her again. Lisa cuts Robin out of photos, steals Robin's HIV medicine and takes Emma from the babysitter. Patrick confesses his affair to Robin and she kicks him out of the house. She confronts Lisa, who then intentionally jumps in front of Robin's car and claims Robin tried to kill her. Lisa replaces Robin's medication with sedatives, resulting in Robin crashing her car. Lisa kidnaps her, and Robin escapes but falls in a well. Suffering from exhaustion and hypothermia, she hallucinates Stone. Patrick eventually finds Robin, with Lisa close after him. Lisa attempts to shoot herself and is sent to a mental institution. She returns shortly, having passed her psychiatric evaluations. After Emma's birthday party, a fire starts and Lisa saves Robin and Emma. Robin accuses Lisa of starting the fire, and Lisa petitions to have Robin fired. Robin's cousin Maxie Jones (Kirsten Storms) catches Lisa attempting to inject Robin's IV bag with sodium pentothal, and Lisa flees. She is put on probation and her petition against Robin is dismissed.\n\nIn early 2011, Robin serves as the maid of honor at Sonny's wedding to Brenda Barrett. Brenda is kidnapped and injected with a neurotoxin, and Robin saves her with an antidote. Patrick comforts Robin during the crisis and they begin to repair their relationship. When Jake Spencer is hit by a car and dies, Robin realizes life is short and reconciles with Patrick. Lisa attempts to kill Robin and frame Patrick, but they figure out her plan and she is arrested. In late June 2011, Lisa holds Robin, Patrick, Steve and Maxie hostage at General Hospital. Eventually there is a struggle where Lisa lets Patrick inject her with drain cleaner. She falls into a coma. Meanwhile, Robin is appointed Chief of Staff. When Jasper Jacks (Ingo Rademacher) kidnaps his daughter Josslyn Jacks, he goes to Robin for help. Sonny finds them and accidentally shoots Robin in the arm instead of Jax. In October, Robin and Patrick join Matt, Elizabeth, Steven Webber (Scott Reeves) and Olivia Falconeri (Lisa LoCicero) on a boat to celebrate Matt's medical achievement. Lisa sneaks on board and ties up Patrick and Robin. Lisa tries to inject Patrick with Robin's blood, but Robin and Lisa struggle and Lisa runs away. Lisa is found dead and everyone becomes suspects. In December, Robin tells Jason her HIV meds are not working. She later works on a protocol to save Jason, who is again experiencing head trauma. She is caught in a lab explosion and presumed dead, later seen being held captive. Her captor is seen to be Ewen Keenan (Nathin Butler), later revealed to be working for Jerry Jacks (Sebastian Roché) because she was rid of by Joe Scully, Jr. (Richard Steinmetz). She is later seen being held captive by Duke Lavery (Ian Buchanan), shown to be Cesar Faison (Anders Hove) in disguise. After Faison is apprehended, his accomplice Dr. Obrecht (Kathleen Gati) tries to kill Robin, and her father Robert catches her. They struggle and Robert is injected, falling into a coma. Obrecht escapes with Robin and takes her to Jerry.\n\nRobin is revealed to be held on Cassadine Island by Jerry, forced to find a cure for Jerry's illness in late 2013 after she was ordered to revive his henchman Franco (Roger Howarth). Robin is eventually found by Nikolas, who came to Cassadine Island to find Dr. Obrecht. However, Jerry manages to trap her parents, also pursuing Obrecht, and tells Robin to develop the cure or her parents will die. Robin is held captive on Wyndemere by Faison and Obrecht with Nikolas and Britt Westbourne (Kelly Thiebaud), Obrecht's daughter with Faison right where Stephen Clay (Michael Easton; AKA Caleb Morley) was. Robin finds out that Patrick is engaged to Sabrina Santiago (Teresa Castillo) after Carlos Rivera (Jeffrey Vincent Parise), Ava Jerome (Maura West), and Julian Jerome (William deVry) told Patrick and Sonny that they saw Robin alive. Britt offers to help her find the cure by getting her access to the hospital lab because Connie Falconeri (Kelly Sullivan) was killed. Anna and Robert manage to escape, overpower Jerry, and manage to capture Faison and Obrecht. Robin immediately leaves to go to Patrick and Sabrina's wedding ceremony, where she shares a reunion with Patrick and Emma. She also shares a reunion with Maxie, who was at the time, contemplating a suicide attempt. Meanwhile, Robin asks Sabrina to break up with Patrick, but Sabrina refuses, saying Patrick should make his own decision. Eventually, Patrick chooses Robin and they reunite in time to celebrate Christmas as a family with Emma and happy to see her longtime friend Sonny Corinthos after he got released from prison and meeting Obrecht from his cell. Robin applies to be the chief of staff, but before that, she told Sonny that she's very sorry for his loss, after she told him that, then she goes on to get that chief of staff position, but is overlooked, after Obrecht secures the position following her own deal with the WSB. Patrick and Robin find out Sabrina's pregnant, but she claims that Patrick is not the baby's father. Robin then gets a visit from Victor Cassadine (Thaao Penghlis), who reveals he's the WSB director who arranged Obrecht's release. He tells Robin he wants her to revive his sister-in-law, Helena (Constance Towers) and nephew, Stavros Cassadine (Robert Kelker-Kelly) just like she did with Franco. After refusing to help Victor, he reveals that he has also been holding Jason, and that Robin could revive him as well, if she helped in resurrecting Helena and Stavros. They leave town together on March 4, 2014, and head to the Crichton-Clark Clinic in New York City and she hadn't got a chance to say goodbye to her longtime friend Sonny. Robin later confirms that Jason is indeed alive.\n\nOn August 5, 2014, Patrick runs into Robin at the Crichton-Clark Clinic. He was there with Sam Morgan looking for answers on a former patient, Nina Clay (Michelle Stafford). Robin tells him that she can't leave the clinic. Patrick then see a cryogenic chamber, and he asks if Jason is in there. Robin says that it is Stavros Cassadine, and that Jason is not there. She tells Patrick that Jason's organs were failing, and he soon died. Patrick then leaves after Robin says her work is more important than her family. Victor Cassadine later comes to the lab on August 7, 2014. He tells Robin that he hopes Patrick doesn't find out about Jason. It is confirmed that Jason indeed alive, and Robin lied to Patrick. Victor reveals he asked Rafe Kovich, Jr. (Jimmy Deshler) to run Patrick and Emma off the road as a warning to Robin, showing he's holding her hostage. The accident ultimately led to the death of Patrick's son, Gabriel. Robin last appears talking to Jason in the cryogenic chamber. At the clinic, Victor orders Robin to use her new concoction on Jason. But she prefers using it on his relatives, Helena Cassadine or Stavros Cassadine instead. Victor refuses, and orders her to try it on Jason first to see if he wakes up or not, before trying it on the Cassadines. Victor calls in his goons to hold back Robin while he tries her new formula on Jason by injecting him with the serum. Robin asks Victor to let her and Jason leave after her formula works and Jason moves his hand, but Victor has other plans for Jason and gets his goons to throw Robin out, betraying her by telling her he doesn't need her anymore as her work is done and he's planning to keep Jason. After the goons take Robin out, Jason commences to rise from the chamber. She was handcuffed to a metal pole by Levi Dunkleman (Zachary Garred; actually Peter Harrell, Jr.) in helping Victor in stealing Felicia Scorpio-Jones (Kristina Wagner)'s Aztec jewelry.\n\nIn November 1995 ABC Daytime Press released a book, \"Robin's Diary\", written by Judith Pinsker, based on the storyline concerning Scorpio and Stone Cates. The work is written in a diary format and is based on the diary that the character keeps during her youth, which Scorpio gave to Cates at one point in the series. The book also includes items given to or created by Cates. \"Robin's Diary\" became a best seller and some of the book's royalties were donated to the Pediatric AIDS Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054639", "title": "Shirley Kwan", "text": "Shirley Kwan\n\nShirley Kwan, Kwan Suk'E, or Kwan Suk Yee (, born 15 August 1966) is an influential Cantopop singer from Hong Kong. Kwan first shot to fame in 1989 with the hit, \"Happy Are Those In Love\" (難得有情人) and was widely popular throughout the early to mid-90s. She is noted for her distinct, whispery vocal style and known equally for singing mainstream ballads and more alternative songs.\n\nKwan was born in Hong Kong and moved to Los Angeles at the age of twelve. She studied fashion before venturing into the entertainment industry in 1986, at the age of 20.\n\nKwan had her first taste of the limelight in 1986 when she became one of twelve finalists in TVB's New Talent Singing Awards, along with Andy Hui and Leon Lai, but lost to both. Two years later, with the encouragement of a friend, she recorded a demo tape for the prestigious \"Marine Blue\" singing competition in Japan and won. She caught the eyes of record executives at Apollon and signed a contract, releasing two Japanese pop albums in two years. Kwan sang in both Japanese and English for these releases, and notably made her first and only rap vocals in the song \"Borderless\".\n\nKwan's Marine Blue success in Japan quickly led to her discovery by PolyGram. In 1 March 1989, Kwan released her debut Cantonese album \"Winter Love\" (冬戀), with its R&B-influenced first single, \"The Rebel\" (叛逆漢子).\n\nHer sophomore album, \"Happy Are those in Love\", would produce her first major hit with its title track, which immediately propelled Kwan into Hong Kong stardom. The song \"Happy are Those in Love\" was the theme song to a popular day-time drama series on TVB. It reached no. 1 on the TVB charts and was frequently requested in karaoke bars at the time. The album, which sold platinum, enjoyed huge chart success and spawned a further hit single, the up-tempo \"Lovers Underneath the Stars\" (星空下的戀人), with Kwan sweeping newcomer awards at all of the major year-end music award shows. \n\nThe following two years saw the release of four albums, in which Kwan started to develop a more individualistic style. After scoring another major pop hit in 1990 with 愛恨纏綿, Kwan began incorporating elements from a wider variety of musical genres. Her 1991 album \"Love is Forever\" (戀一世的愛) saw her exploring New Age music, with cover versions of songs by Gregorian and Michael Cretu. As a marketing strategy, PolyGram presented its title track, which was a cover version of \"Once In A Life Time,\" back to back with the Gregorian original on the promotional disc that was sent out to radio DJs at the time. Kwan also covered Amina's 1991 winning Eurovision entry, \"Le dernier qui a parle\", rewritten by veteran lyricist Andrew Lam (林敏驄) as \"Buddhist Chant\" (梵音), which became a surprising top 10 radio single.\n\nIn 18 November 1993, Kwan released the platinum-selling album, \"The Story of Shirley\" (真假情話), which spawned the minor hit \"Fake Love\" (假的戀愛). The album signalled a change in vocal style, with a whispery delivery that featured more prominently than before, and which would become her trademark style. \n\nKwan further established her place as a cantopop diva with the album, \"My Way\", released in 8 July 1994. This would be the last album containing all original Cantonese material until \"Shirley's Era\" in 2009. Singles included the acid-jazz influenced \"Death of a Legend\" (逝去的傳奇) which sampled a riff from the Digable Planets' 1993 single \"Rebirth of Slick,\" and the immensely popular ballad \"Cuddling Underneath the Stars\" (繾綣星光下), another of Kwan's major career hits, which won numerous song awards at the ceremonies that year. The album also featured two of Andrew Lam's techno and house inflected compositions \"Anxiety\" (緊張) and \"Out of This World\" (驚世感覺), as well as another popular ballad \"Farewell Love Song\" (告別戀曲). \"My Way\", the cover of which featured Kwan in a new crew-cut look that has since become iconic, was one of the most celebrated in 1994, enjoying a high-degree of both commercial and critical success.\n\nWith increasing confidence in her musical style, Kwan asked producer Joseph Ip (葉廣權) and eight different sound engineers to rearrange ten of her favourite cantopop songs which she handpicked for a covers album. The result was \"'EX' All Time Favourites,\" released in February 1995, which featured covers of classics by Anita Mui, Leslie Cheung and Alan Tam, reworked and reinterpreted with Kwan's alternative musical influences and trademark, ethereal singing style. The lead single, a cover version of Teresa Teng's \"Forget Him\" rearranged by Donald Ashley, was featured in Wong Kar-wai's 1995 arthouse film \"Fallen Angels\". The album sold three times platinum, and was selected in 2000 as one of the Top 20 Defining Chinese Albums of All Time for the book (聽見2000分之100) by a jury of musicians which included Anthony Wong, Sandee Chan, Carl Wong and Lin Wei-Che. \n\nIn the summer of 1995, Kwan released her third compilation album, \"Journey of Life\" (世途上　新曲＋精選), containing two new singles, \"He Needs You, She Needs You\" (他需要你, 她需要你), a dreampop track which incorporated the traditional Chinese instrument \"erhu\", and the minor hit, \"Are There Real Friends in Life\" (人生可有知己), a pop ballad which has since became a fan favourite. \n\nRiding on the success of a string of platinum-selling albums, Kwan held her first large-scale solo concert series, \"The One and Only Shirley Kwan In Concert\" (難得有一個關淑怡演唱會), in June 1995 at the Hong Kong Coliseum.\n\nAfter seven years at PolyGram, Kwan's contract came to an end in June 1996. A final PolyGram studio album was initially scheduled for release in the summer, containing three American collaborations (\"Infectious\" [傳染] and \"Elusive Love\" [愛難尋] written by Andy Goldmark; and \"Mumbling\" [自言自語] by Suzanne Fountain) and seven other tracks. However, due to Kwan's departure, PolyGram released the material separately in 1997's compilation \"Connection\" (心靈相通) and 1998's EP \"eZone\".\n\nKwan spent the second half of the 90s mostly away from the public eye, but managed to strike up some significant collaborations with friends and fellow contemporaries Tats Lau and Anthony Wong Yiu Ming of the former Tat Ming Pair. The first of these included \"Blessed Mary\" (萬福馬利亞), a duet with Wong satirising Hong Kong's materialism released in late 1995. This was followed by the Tats Lau collaboration \"Cuddle 28800BPS\" (繾綣28800BPS), a song dealing with cyber love, and a cover version of the gender-ambiguous Tat Ming classic \"Forget He is She\" (忘記他是她) at their request, both in 1996. In 1997, Kwan lent her vocals to the theme song of a radio drama produced by Commercial Radio Hong Kong, \"Take Me Out Dancing\" (帶我去跳舞) which featured a soprano backing vocal mixed with a thumping dance beat. In 1999, she held a \"Music Is Live\" concert organized by Commercial Radio.\n\nAfter several years of inactivity, Kwan attempted a short comeback in 2001, signing a contract reportedly worth 8-million dollars with BMG Taiwan in a high-profile press conference. Working with well-known producers such as Anthony Bao (包小松), Jamie Hsueh (薛忠銘), and Benjamin Lin (林明陽), she released one Mandarin album, \"Freezing Flame\" (冷火) in November, to critical acclaim. The album spawned two singles, \"Freezing Flame\" (冷火) and \"Who\" (是誰) which featured a mix of string instruments and electronic elements. Although the initial contract was for 4 albums, this came to a halt In 2002, when Kwan had become pregnant and moved to Canada. It was in an interview with \"Mingpao\" in 2013, in which she revealed that BMG had not arranged for any recording sessions for more than a year after she gave birth, and this ultimately led to an early termination.\n\nIn 2003, she was requested by Eason Chan to record guest vocals for the track \"Lies\" (謊言) on his album \"Live for Today\".\n\nIn fall 2005, Kwan stepped into the recording studio once again and duet with music veteran Alan Tam in \"Rekindle The Flame\" (舊情復熾), a Cantonese remake of the French ballad \"J'ai murmure va-t-en\". The news of Kwan making a comeback sent excitement through Hong Kong's airwaves, and \"Rekindle\" took the charts by storm, reaching number 1 on TVB, RTHK and Metro Radio.\n\nTwo months later, Kwan was signed to a contract with Music Nation Group (大國文化) by the famous producer, Frankie Lee Chun. The first single \"About Me\" (關於我) saw Kwan reunited with lyrist Wyman Wong and long-time collaborators Joseph Ip and John Laudon. Supported by extensive airplay, \"About Me\" steadily climbed to the top of various radio charts, and its limited-release special edition CD sold out within a day.\n\nIn early February 2006, the eponymous EP \"Shirley Kwan\" was released, introducing the second brand new single, \"Evolution\" (進化論). This coincided with the release of a 3CD-Karaoke plus DVD compilation by Universal Music (formally PolyGram), entitled \"All About Shirley,\" which contained side projects and rare tracks dating back to the very beginning of her career in Japan.\n\nTo much anticipation, three comeback concerts, \"Being Shirley On Stage\" (關於我 關淑怡演唱會) were held in late February, at the legendary Hong Kong Coliseum. Performing her biggest hits in reverse chronological order, Kwan garnered positive reviews for the performance, which dominated entertainment headlines for a week. In the final encore, Kwan famously covered Eason Chan's \"Today Next Year\" (明年今日) to a standing ovation, and a sing-a-long audience of 30, 000.\n\nUpon completion of her contract with Music Nation, Kwan released two new songs in February 2007 as an independent artist for songwriter Keith Chan (陳輝陽)'s multimedia musical \"12 faces of woman\" (十二金釵眾生花) at the 2007 Hong Kong Arts Festival. This included the theme song \"All Living Flowers\" (眾生花), which featured a mix of traditional Chinese and Western string instruments and a duet with Lee Heung Kam, \"3000 Years Ago\" (三千年後) which won the CASH Golden Sail Music Award for Best Alternative Song. In March, she released the single \"Just Once\" (只得一次), which was the theme song to a primetime TVB sitcom series and reached no. 1 on the TVB singles chart.\n\nIn June 2007, longtime friend and veteran producer Herman Ho (何哲圖) recruited Shirley to his new company \"Star Entertainment Ltd.\" (星娛樂有限公司), which is financed by Neway Karaoke Box (Neway卡拉OK).\n\n2008 saw the release of two new singles, \"Mountain, River\" (山水) and (天規), followed by a new concert series, \"Unexpected Shirley Kwan in Concert,\" which was held at the Hong Kong Coliseum on 24–25 April 2008.\n\nOn 15 June 2009, Kwan released the long-anticipated studio album, \"Shirley's Era\", which contains all singles released in 2007–2008 as well as newly recorded material. This marked her first, full-length Cantonese studio album since 1994's All Time Favourites. The album produced the new single, \"The Ends of the Earth\" (地盡頭) which reached no. 1 on the 903 Commercial Radio charts.\n\nIn October 2010, Kwan performed a live concert \"One Starry Night: An Evening with Shirley Kwan\" at the Venetian Arena in Macau, which featured mostly live covers of songs by other artists, such as Alan Tam's \"Illusion\" (幻影), Aaron Kwok's \"Why did I let you go?\" (我為何讓你走) and Faye Wong's \"I'm Willing\" (我願意). She returned to the same stage on 12 November 2011 with long-time friend and collaborator Anthony Wong for the concert, \"Anthony Wong x Shirley Kwan: Forget He is She Concert, Macau 2011.\" \n\nIn 2012, Kwan collaborated with Juno Mak on the single \"Clavicle\" (鎖骨), which offers a mature example of her dream pop vocals and reached no. 1 on the Commercial Radio charts. In late 2012, she released the limited edition single, \"Tourbillon\" (陀飛輪), a cover of an Eason Chan song to polarizing reviews, but which was lauded by both the lyricist Wyman Wong and Anthony Wong for her authorial style.\n\nOn 02 February 2013, she held her 4th concert series at the Hong Kong Coliseum, \"Philip Stein Your Favorite Shirley Kwan Suk'E In Concert,\" for two consecutive evenings. Later that year, she took part in a series of concerts, \"Polygram Forever\" for the newly revived label and recorded the theme song, \"Coincidence\" (實屬巧合) for the TVB series \"Always and Ever\" (情逆三世緣). \n\nIn 2014, she recorded a duet with Mag Lam (星斗群) as the theme song to the TVB series \"Never Dance Alone\" (女人俱樂部).\n\nIn 2016, Kwan held a concert celebrating her 25th anniversary in the music industry, \"The Best of Shirley Kwan 25 Live,\" at the Hong Kong Coliseum to rave reviews. Kwan dedicated the performance to her late mother, and broke down during her performance of the Hins Cheung cover, \"Stay Young Forever\" (青春常註), prompting a memorable audience sing-along.\n\nOn 9 April 2017, she performed as a musical guest at the 36th Hong Kong Film awards amidst controversy of her recent arrest for intimidation and common assault. She performed a medley of theme songs including \"Invincible\" (無敵) and \"Let Me Stay by Your Side\" (讓我留在你身邊) backed by Hanjin Tan, Supper Moment and The Interzone Collective, as well as presented the awards for Best Original Film Song and Best Original Score.\n\n\n\n\nIn early 1997, Kwan was asked by Hong Kong filmmaker Wong Kar-wai to star in his film \"Happy Together\". She was flown to Argentina in five days' notice and ended up spending more than two months filming. Starring opposite Tony Leung Chiu-Wai and Chang Chen, Kwan played Leung's mysterious and lonely secret admirer and also recorded a cover of Caetano Veloso's \"Cucurucucu Paloma\" (Song of Dove) for the film's soundtrack. However, her scenes were all deleted from the final version of the film, for which Wong later went on to win Best Director at the Cannes. It took another three years for Kwan's scenes to surface, when they were included in the making-of documentary, \"Buenos Aires Zero Degrees\" (布宜諾斯艾利斯之攝氏零度). The documentary premiered at the 2000 Berlin International Film Festival out of competition, and was also shown at the 2000 Golden Horse Film Festival and Awards in Taiwan.\n\nKwan is a single mother and gave birth to her son in January 2002 in Canada. Despite rumors involving Eric Tsang as the father, Kwan has never disclosed the true paternity of her child and insists only that they had met in Canada, and is not someone in the entertainment business. Kwan seems to have broken her silence in 2014 when she posted a photo of Zuri Rinpoche 8th on her instagram, with a caption claiming him to be the true father of her child. \n\nIn the past, Kwan has been romantically linked to Michael Chow (1992-96), and Hacken Lee. \n\nIn September 2012, Kwan posted a suicidal message on facebook. She was incommunicado for roughly thirty-six hours before contacting her younger sister to confirm her safety.\n\nIn October 2016, Kwan was rescued from the waters off Discovery Bay. She was walking along the shore with a female friend, who had reportedly told officers that she was unhappy from work and had walked down to the sea for a swim. \n\nIn May 2017, Kwan was charged with one count of intimidation and one count of common assault for an altercation that took place with a hotel staff earlier in March.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48988623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48988623", "title": "Shukria Tabassum", "text": "Shukria Tabassum\n\nShukria Tabassum (Dari: ) was the daughter of Ramazan Ali from Afghanistan born in Jaghori district of Ghazni Province.\n\nShe belonged to the Hazara ethnic group of Afghanistan. She used to go to school. At the age of 9 she was kidnapped by ISIS in Afghanistan. During a journey from Jaghori to Quetta, Pakistan all 7 ethnic Hazara passengers were captured in the valley of Zabul, Afghanistan.\n\nAfter beheading all 7 kidnap victims, around 1000,000 demonstrators gathered in Kabul to protest against government policies and the administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "53765602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53765602", "title": "Simon Yorke (1903–1966)", "text": "Simon Yorke (1903–1966)\n\nSimon Yorke (24 June 1903 – 7 May 1966) was a Welsh landowner and soldier. He inherited the Erddig estate in 1922. He was High Sheriff for Denbighshire in 1937. He was a lieutenant in the Denbighshire Yeomanry and enlisted as a private in the North Staffordshire Regiment during World War II.\nSimon Yorke was born in Erddig, Denbighshire, the eldest son of Philip Yorke (1849-1922). In 1922, Simon inherited the Erddig estate. During World War II Yorke served as a private soldier in the North Staffordshire Regiment.\n\nSimon Yorke was found dead in Erddig Park on 7 May 1966, from heart failure. He was buried in Marchwiel Churchyard, unmarried and without a direct heir. Erddig was inherited by his brother, Philip Scott Yorke, who gifted the estate to the National Trust in 1973.\n"}
{"id": "10394272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10394272", "title": "Stephan Bibrowski", "text": "Stephan Bibrowski\n\nStephan Bibrowski (1890–1932), better known as Lionel the Lion-faced Man, was a famous sideshow performer. His whole body was covered with long hair that gave him the appearance of a lion; this was likely due to a rare condition called hypertrichosis.\n\nBibrowski was born in 1890 in Bielsk near Płock in Congress Poland with one-inch hair covering his body. His mother (Benedict) blamed the condition on the mauling of his father (Michael) by a lion, which she witnessed while pregnant with Stephan. She considered Stephan an abomination and gave him up to a German impresario named Sedlmayer when he was four years old. Sedlmayer gave him his stage name and started exhibiting him around Europe.\n\nBy the time he was put on exhibit, Lionel's hair had grown to eight inches (twenty centimetres) on his face and hung about four inches (ten centimetres) everywhere else. His body was almost entirely covered with hair, the only exceptions being the palms of his hands and the soles of his feet. In 1901, Lionel traveled to the United States and started appearing with the Barnum and Bailey Circus. He toured with the circus from then on, occasionally going back to Europe.\n\nIn his act, Lionel performed gymnastic tricks, and also spoke to people to show his gentle side that sharply contrasted with his appearance. He settled in the U.S. in 1920, becoming a popular attraction, and moved to New York City, where he was a fixture at Coney Island.\n\nBy the late 1920s, Lionel retired from his sideshow career and moved back to Germany. He was reported to have died in Berlin from a heart attack in 1932 at forty-one years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "4584269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4584269", "title": "Sylvie Meis", "text": "Sylvie Meis\n\nSylvie Françoise Meis (born 13 April 1978) is a Dutch television personality and model of Dutch East Indies origin. She is also popular in Germany.\n\nSylvie Meis graduated from the University of West Brabant () Aged 18, she decided that she wanted to be a model and was cast for various shoots by casting agencies. After becoming interested in television, she gained popularity through assignments at FoxKids and music station TMF. She hosts several events at TMF, such as presenting the annual TMF-awards, and conducting interviews with international artists such as Britney Spears and Kylie Minogue. In addition, she features in video clips and the Dutch TV-series \"\". She also introduced the \"Pure by Sylvie\" jewellery line to the Dutch market. Thereafter, she hosted the 2008 FIFA World Player of the Year award ceremony.\n\nAfter being elected the Netherlands' Sexiest Female in 2003, she started a relationship with then Ajax footballer Rafael van der Vaart. Due in part to the fame from their individual careers, they soon became the Netherlands' most famous \"football couple\". Their fame grew after their marriage on 10 June 2005 and live coverage of the wedding on SBS6, a Dutch television channel, with the broadcast gaining high ratings in the Netherlands; Sylvie took Rafael's last name, van der Vaart.\n\nMeis and her then husband moved to Germany when he left Ajax to play for Bundesliga football club Hamburger SV. After her husband's 2008 transfer to Real Madrid, the van der Vaarts moved to Spain. Between 2008 and 2011, she was a judge on \"Das Supertalent\", the German version of Simon Cowell's \"Got Talent\" series. In 2010 she took part in the third season of the German equivalent of Strictly Come Dancing, called \"Let's Dance\". On 17 April 2010, Meis replaced the usual \"Deutschland sucht den Superstar\" judge Nina Eichinger for the final of the 7th season, after the latter was stuck in Los Angeles following flight restrictions as a result of the 2010 eruptions of Eyjafjallajökull. Between 2011 and 2017 Meis has been hosting the show \"Let's Dance\" together with Daniel Hartwich. In 2018 she was replaced by former participant Viktoria Swarovski and instead returned to \"Das Supertalent\" as a judge.\nFollowing in the footsteps of famous entertainers such as Johannes Heesters and Rudi Carell, Meis is one of the most successful Dutch personalities active in Germany.\n\nMeis is of partly Indo-European descent, her father being Dutch-Indonesian, her mother being Belgian.\n\nMeis was in a relationship with footballer Rafael van der Vaart from 2003. On 10 June 2005, Sylvie married Rafael and on 28 May 2006, their son Damián Rafael was born. Some of the media described the couple as the \"new Beckhams\" but both of them denied the claims saying that they prefer to just live a normal life.\n\nOn 16 June 2009, she announced that she had been diagnosed with breast cancer, and had undergone surgery in May 2009. She finished post-op chemotherapy and is cancer free. In the summer of 2009, Real Madrid wanted to sell Rafael van der Vaart, but the player decided to stay in Madrid because Sylvie was undergoing cancer treatments there. A year later, upon his move to England, Rafael stated \"She had a very serious illness and it is true that she had to be treated at the Clínica Quirón. Last season, they wanted me to leave but I couldn't leave for that reason. Now she is well and the only thing that happened was that Madrid wanted to sell and I wanted to get back to enjoying playing football, and Tottenham are a great team that are going to give me the football opportunities that I need.\"\n\nIn 2010, Sylvie admitted to having cheated on her husband, stating that Van der Vaart found out through emails that she was having an affair with a KLM airline pilot which she believed was the beginning of the end of their marriage. On 2 January 2013, Sylvie acknowledged their separation after he had struck her in front of their guests. Their divorce was finalized in December 2013. On 12 April 2017, she became engaged to Charbel Aouad but the couple separated in October 2017.\n\nShe is fluent in English and German.\n\nSylvie Meis has made several television appearances worldwide including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4803121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4803121", "title": "Terence Turner", "text": "Terence Turner\n\nTerence Turner is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera, \"Emmerdale\". He was played first by Stephen Marchant and then by Nick Brimble until the character's death in 2006.\n\nHe first appeared in 1985 when he was a student at Oxford University and had a brief romance with Sandie Merrick.\n\nIt was stated in the show that the character was 20 years old in 1984, meaning he was born in 1964.\n\nWhen Terence returned to the village in 2006, attempting to con his father out of £20,000, his age had been substantially altered and his birth year was stated as being 1951. Terence's sister, Steph, revealed that he sexually abused her when they were teenagers. Alan refused to believe Steph, thinking she was trying to cause trouble because she was jealous. He moved into Holdgate Farm with Terence and one night Terence got really drunk and admitted that Steph was telling the truth. Alan and Terence had a fight and Alan lost. Terence took Alan's money and escaped, while Steph and her husband Adam Forsythe found Alan.\n\nTerence was away for a while but returned after Adam started receiving weird phonecalls. Terence told Adam he had delved into his past and found out he had hit a young boy, losing his doctor's license. It was revealed Adam was practising illegally using his late father's registration. Terence demanded £50,000 from Adam in exchange for not going to the police. Adam got the money and Terence came to collect it from the B&B, but wanted more. Adam offered him drugs to sell but Adam took some ether and stunned Terence. He then dragged Terence to the basement and went back up. Then Steph came home, worrying about Adam because he hadn't called her. Terence woke up, while Adam and Steph were in the house. Terence fought with Adam and Steph and Adam bludgeoned Terence over the head and killed him. Adam and Steph buried Terence in the woods and tried to make sure that no one knew about it. However, Steph was uncomfortable about lying about Terence's disappearance so Adam started drugging her to keep her quiet and she was later sectioned as it was suspected that she was having a nervous breakdown. Eventually the truth came out when Steph admitted it in court, leading to her and Adam being arrested for Terence's murder.\n\n"}
{"id": "51498187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51498187", "title": "Teresa Klimek", "text": "Teresa Klimek\n\nTeresa Klimek (1929-2013) was a Polish educator and activist. Educated to teach mathematics, she taught in various schools in Gorzów Wielkopolski from 1953 to 1984 and was honored for her skill as an educator. She helped found the Gorzów Wielkopolski branch of the Catholic Intellectuals Club as well as the regional branch of Solidarity. Her activism during Poland's struggle for democracy was widely recognized at both the local and national level and she was honored with numerous medals and awards.\n\nTeresa Maria Tomaszewska-Bończa was born on 11 October 1929 in Hrubieszów, Poland to the noble families of Stanisław Bończa-Tomaszewski and Marii Skrzetuskiej. After her parent's divorce, Tomaszewska-Bończa was raised by her maternal grandparents Kazimierza Skrzetuskiego and Maria (née Dobrowolska) Skrzetuska. She was the great-granddaughter of Antoni Skrzetuski, who was honored for his military service in the January Uprising. The family moved often during the war, living in Wrzesnia, Zwierzyniec, Przeworsk and Mogilno, before she entered high school in 1944. In 1949, she graduated from the in Gniezno and went on to further her studies at the Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań (UAM), studying mathematics from 1949 to 1952.\n\nAfter graduation, Tomaszewska-Bończa studied briefly at the Polish Naval Academy and then between 1952 and 1953 she taught at a vocational school in Gdynia. In 1953, Tomaszewska-Bończa married , moved to Gorzów Wielkopolski and taught at the Gastronomic Technical College () for two years. In 1957, she began teaching at the Chemical Technical College (), where she remained until 1972. She completed a master's degree UAM in 1966 and in 1976 completed her post-graduate studies in computer science at the University of Warsaw. Between 1972 and 1984 she taught mathematics at the in Gorzów Wielkopolski. During this time frame, she also worked on an experimental project between 1976 and 1980 launched in high schools by the Science Ministry. Klimek retired from teaching in 1984.\n\nIn the 1970s, Klimek helped organize the Catholic Intellectuals Club (), which she and her husband Władysław had founded. KIK's purpose was to stimulate independent thought and bring Catholics within Poland information about Catholic philosophy from countries outside the Socialist Bloc. Though it had to operate illegally and could not be registered until 1981, the group challenged authorities and openly promoted the organization. Beginning in 1980, Klimek was also engaged in the business of the Polish Trade Union, \"Solidarity\" (). Solidarity's goals were to bring about socio-economic reforms by changing the political system. Klimek promoted the organization in schools, encouraging students to found an independent student organization. She served on the regional board and was a delegate to the provincial congress as a Solidarity delegate.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1981 Klimek served on an assistance committee for prisoners of conscience and provided care for members who were imprisoned. She was interned between 15 December 1981 and 27 June 1982 in camps in Poznan and Gołdap, during the implementation of martial law in Poland. Martial law was imposed to frighten people and make them think that Polish Communism was strong and could not be overthrown. After her release, Klimek worked in the Catholic Underground in support of Solidarity. Crucial to the underground's success was the underground press and in Gorzów Wielkopolski, Klimek's husband Władysław edited several journals and wrote articles for Solidarity.\n\nUnder the pseudonym \"Simeon and Agnik\", in 1983 Klimek wrote the activist's song \"Feniksa\" (Phoenix). In 1986, Klimek was involved in the reactivation of Solidarity and became a member of the Regional Executive Committee for the union. Klimek initiated the Gorzów Committee for the Memory of the Victims of Katyn and was made an honorary member of Gorzów's Katyn Families.\n\nKlimek died on 29 December 2013 in Gorzów Wielkopolski. Both during her lifetime, and posthumously, Klimek was decorated for her activism and excellence as an educator. She was recipient of the Merit Award for Gorzowski Region (1998); Gold Badge of the National Section of Education NSZZ \"S\" (2005); Pro Memoria Medal (2005); Knight's Cross of the Order of Polonia Restituta (2009); Merit for the Lubuskie Province (2009); Merit Award for the City of Gorzow (2010), Silver Medal of the (2010), Award of the Region Gorzowski NSZZ \"S\" (2010), (2013); and Cross of Freedom and Solidarity (2015)\n\n"}
{"id": "1119812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1119812", "title": "Thomas Danforth", "text": "Thomas Danforth\n\nThomas Danforth (baptized November 20, 1623 – November 5, 1699) was a politician, magistrate, and landowner in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. A conservative Puritan, he served for many years as one of the colony's councilors and magistrates, generally leading opposition to attempts by the English kings to assert control over the colony. He accumulated land in the central part of the colony that eventually became a portion of Framingham, Massachusetts. His government roles included administration of territory in present-day Maine that was purchased by the colony.\n\nDanforth was a magistrate and leading figure in the colony at the time of the Salem witch trials, but did not sit on the Court of Oyer and Terminer. Despite this, he is inaccurately depicted in Arthur Miller's play \"The Crucible\" and its movie adaptations as doing so. He is presented as a harsh and domineering governor, apparently conflated with William Stoughton, who does not appear in Miller's play (although he and Samuel Sewall are mentioned briefly by Danforth in Act 3, Scene 1). In reality, Danforth is recorded as being critical of the conduct of the trials, and played a role in bringing them to an end.\n\nThomas Danforth was born in Framlingham, Suffolk, England, and baptized on November 20, 1623. He was the eldest son of Nicholas Danforth (1589–1638) and Elizabeth Symmes (1596–1629). Danforth immigrated with his father, brothers Samuel and Jonathan, and sisters Anna, Elizabeth, and Lydia to New England in 1634, probably aboard the \"Griffin\". The family, along with the 200 or so other passengers aboard, left England to escape persecution for their Puritan beliefs. William Laud had become archbishop of the Church of England in 1633 and begun a crackdown on Nonconformist religious practices (such as those practiced by the more Calvinist Puritans) that prompted a wave of migration to the New World.\n\nSoon after his arrival in the Massachusetts Bay Colony Nicholas Danforth acquired property in Cambridge, becoming one of the town's leading citizens and a member of the colony's general court (as its assembly was known). He died in 1638, leaving his lands and the care of his younger children to Thomas. In 1643 Danforth was admitted a freeman of the colony, which conferred on him the right to vote and to participate in the colony's political affairs.\n\nHe was appointed Treasurer of Harvard College in its charter of 1650, and served as a steward of the college from 1669 to 1682. From 1659 he sat on the colony's council of assistants, and was elected deputy governor in 1679. In 1665 Danforth was member of a commission that oversaw the extension of Massachusetts colonial authority over the territories of what is now southern Maine, which colonial surveyors had determined to fall within its borders.\n\nDanforth's politics and religion were relatively conservative, with one historian describing him as \"the Pym of Massachusetts politics\". In 1661 the colony was rebuked by King Charles II for its mistreatment of Quakers; the colonial government had banned Quakers from its territory under threat of death, and four of them had recently been hanged after repeatedly violating the ban. The king in his letter demanded that the colony allow Quakers and others freedom of religious expression. Danforth was one member of a committee that was established to formulate a response. The document the committee drafted was a conservative declaration that the colonial government was essentially sovereign except where its laws conflicted with English law. (By the time the king's letter arrived the colonial government had already lessened the harsh punishments for violating bans.) Two committee members, magistrate Simon Bradstreet and minister John Norton, were sent to England to argue the colony's case.\n\nWhen King Philip's War broke out in 1675 (pitting many Native American tribes of southern New England against English colonists), Danforth was involved in some of the events of the war. Many colonists distrusted the Praying Indians (Christianized Indians living peacefully in communities on the outskirts of English towns), some of whom were attacked by mobs of English settlers seeking revenge for attacks on their communities. Danforth, along with Daniel Gookin and the Indian missionary Reverend John Eliot, was a vocal supporter of the Praying Indians, and worked to prevent some of these excesses, at some personal risk. In one notable instance Danforth was aboard a small boat with other colonial officials in Boston Harbor en route to Long Island to inspect facilities for Praying Indians who had been relocated their \"for their own safety\" when a nearby ship apparently intentionally rammed the smaller vessel. No one was injured in the incident, but all of the older officials were dunked in the cold waters of the harbor.\n\nIn 1680 Danforth was chosen president in the District of Maine by the Massachusetts assembly. The colony had previously governed this territory (roughly the land between the Piscataqua and Kennebec Rivers in what is now southwestern Maine), but its right to do so had been stripped by King Charles after protests by the heirs of Sir Ferdinando Gorges, who had long-standing claims to the area. Agents for Massachusetts then purchased the territory from the Gorges heirs, and Danforth was appointed to administer it. The territory had been devastated and many properties abandoned during King Philip's War, and Danforth acted in effect as a Lord Proprietor, making land grants and reestablishing towns such as Falmouth and North Yarmouth. Danforth was rewarded by the colony with a grant of an island in Casco Bay for this work, which he oversaw until 1686.\n\nThroughout the 1670s the Massachusetts leadership steadfastly refused to make changes to its administration that were demanded by King Charles. At the instigation of agent Edward Randolph, Charles made increasingly specific demands concerning freedom of religion and adherence to colonial trade regulations known as the Navigation Acts, and prepared to issue a \"quo warranto\" writ to demand the return of the colonial charter. Danforth was one of the leading opponents to making any accommodation to the king's demands. The issue reached a peak in the 1684 election, in which Danforth stood for election as governor representing the hardline party. He was narrowly defeated by the more conciliatory Simon Bradstreet, but retained the post of deputy governor. The colony's attempts at moderation were in vain—the charter was formally annulled on June 18, 1684.\n\nIn 1686 King James II established the Dominion of New England as a new colonial entity to govern all of New England. He appointed Massachusetts native Joseph Dudley as its first governor; he was replaced later that year by Sir Edmund Andros. Both Dudley and Andros excluded Danforth from their councils, given his opposition to crown authority. The dominion reign, which did not include an elected assembly, was extremely unpopular in Massachusetts for a variety of reasons. When the Glorious Revolution deposed James, Massachusetts Puritan leaders orchestrated an uprising and arrested Andros, Dudley, and other dominion officials. In the period between the dominion's collapse and the establishment of the Province of Massachusetts Bay in 1692, the old colonial government was temporarily reestablished, and Danforth resumed his offices.\n\nIn 1692, Danforth was acting governor during the early months of the witch hysteria in Salem and his name appears once in the Salem court records as part of a council which observed the proceedings on April 11. but his involvement ended in May upon the arrival of Sir William Phips, the first royal governor under the new charter of the Province of Massachusetts Bay. Danforth was not assigned to the special Court of Oyer and Terminer that Phips established shortly thereafter, and he was opposed to the manner in which magistrate William Stoughton conducted the witch trials, which unconditionally accepted spectral evidence in its proceedings, and vigorously presumed the guilt of the accused. In a letter by Thomas Brattle in October 8, 1692, Danforth is described as among a select group of \"several about the Bay, men for understanding, judgement and piety... that do utterly condemn the said proceedings, and do freely deliver their judgment...\" \n\nAfter the Court of Oyer and Terminer stopped sitting, a new Superior Court was created, and, in December 1692, Stoughton was elected by the governor's council to head the court, defeating Danforth by three votes. In early 1693, Danforth sat on Superior Court sessions conducted by Stoughton that continued to hear witchcraft cases, but without accepting spectral evidence. By this time the hysteria was dying down, and the court (sometimes with Danforth leading after Stoughton temporarily removed himself in protest at the ban on spectral evidence and other reforms imposed by Governor Phips. Danforth was sympathetic to the plight of individuals accused, relocating some of them to his lands west of Boston; Salem End Road in Framingham is part of the area where they settled.\n\nDanforth married Mary Withington in 1644. The couple had 12 children, but half of these died before the age of three. Danforth was survived by only three of the others. Danforth died in Cambridge on November 5, 1699.\nIn 1662 Danforth began to acquire land to the west of Boston by way of land grants by the Great and General Court after general surveys conducted by Edmund Rice at the behest of the Court. Originally known as \"Danforth's Farm\", he began to refer to the estate as \"Framingham\" in the 1670s in honor of his birthplace. Although Danforth continued to reside in Cambridge, he developed these lands, which came to number , by issuing 999 year leases rather than selling parcels. By the 1690s a number of somewhat discontiguous communities existed on the land, which petitioned the state for incorporation. Objections were made to the earliest petition (of 1692) by Danforth, since it did not include all of his lands, and a number of subsequent petitions were objected to by neighboring communities. It was not until 1700, after Danforth had died, that the town of Framingham was granted a charter. The town's seal contains the words \"Danforth's Farm\" in commemoration of this heritage.\n\nDanforth, Maine is named in his honor. The Danforth Museum of Art, founded in 1975, is located in Framingham.\n\nIn Arthur Miller's play \"The Crucible,\" Danforth is depicted as the leading judicial figure overseeing the Salem trials. William Stoughton is not a character in the play, and Miller portrays Danforth as an honest but domineering and selfish judge, under whose authority many are imprisoned and sentenced to hang. When John Proctor, an accused, defies his authority at the end of the play by refusing to lie and sign a public confession saying that he is a witch and accusing others, he is mercilessly sentenced to hang. In an introduction to the play, Miller wrote that he had combined several persons and made other changes to the historical characters for dramatic purposes.\n\nMiller also wrote the screenplay for the 1996 film version of the play, in which the name Danforth was retained (portrayed by actor Paul Scofield) as the principal judicial antagonist. In the 1957 film adaptation of the play, whose screenplay was written by Jean-Paul Sartre, Danforth (portrayed by Raymond Rouleau, who also directed the picture) is portrayed the same way.\n\n"}
{"id": "79145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79145", "title": "Tiresias", "text": "Tiresias\n\nIn Greek mythology, Tiresias (; , \"Teiresias\") was a blind prophet of Apollo in Thebes, famous for clairvoyance and for being transformed into a woman for seven years. He was the son of the shepherd and the nymph Chariclo. Tiresias participated fully in seven generations in Thebes, beginning as advisor to Cadmus himself.\n\nEighteen allusions to mythic Tiresias, noted by Luc Brisson, fall into three groups: one, in two episodes, recounts Tiresias' sex-change and his encounter with Zeus and Hera; a second group recounts his blinding by Athena; a third, all but lost, seems to have recounted the misadventures of Tiresias.\n\nLike other oracles, how Tiresias obtained his information varied: sometimes, he would receive visions; other times he would listen for the songs of birds, or ask for a description of visions and pictures appearing within the smoke of burnt offerings, and so interpret them. Pliny the Elder credits Tiresias with the invention of augury.\n\nOn Mount Cyllene in the Peloponnese, as Tiresias came upon a pair of copulating snakes, he hit the pair with his stick. Hera was displeased, and she punished Tiresias by transforming him into a woman. As a woman, Tiresias became a priestess of Hera, married and had children, including Manto, who also possessed the gift of prophecy. After seven years as a woman, Tiresias again found mating snakes; depending on the myth, either she made sure to leave the snakes alone this time, or, according to Hyginus, trampled on them. As a result, Tiresias was released from his sentence and permitted to regain his masculinity. This ancient story was recorded in lost lines of Hesiod.\n\nIn Hellenistic and Roman times Tiresias' sex-change was embellished and expanded into seven episodes, with appropriate amours in each, probably written by the Alexandrian Ptolemaeus Chennus, but attributed by Eustathius to Sostratus of Phanagoria's lost elegiac \"Tiresias\". Tiresias is presented as a complexly liminal figure, mediating between humankind and the gods, male and female, blind and seeing, present and future, this world and the Underworld.\n\nAccording to the mythographic compendium \"Bibliotheke\", different stories were told of the cause of his blindness, the most direct being that he was simply blinded by the gods for revealing their secrets. An alternative story told by the poet Pherecydes was followed in Callimachus' poem \"The Bathing of Pallas\"; in it, Tiresias was blinded by Athena after he stumbled onto her bathing naked. His mother, Chariclo, a nymph of Athena, begged Athena to undo her curse, but the goddess could not; instead, she cleaned his ears, giving him the ability to understand birdsong, thus the gift of augury. In a separate episode, Tiresias was drawn into an argument between Hera and her husband Zeus, on the theme of who has more pleasure in sex: the man, as Hera claimed; or, as Zeus claimed, the woman, as Tiresias had experienced both. Tiresias replied, \"Of ten parts a man enjoys one only.\" Hera instantly struck him blind for his impiety. Zeus could do nothing to stop her or reverse her curse, but in recompense he did give Tiresias the gift of foresight and a lifespan of seven lives.\n\nHe is said to have understood the language of birds and could divine the future from indications in a fire, or smoke. However, it was the communications of the dead he relied on the most, menacing them when they were late to attend him.\n\nTiresias makes a dramatic appearance in the \"Odyssey\", book XI, in which Odysseus calls up the spirits of the dead (the \"nekyia\"). \"So sentient is Tiresias, even in death,\" observes Marina Warner \"that he comes up to Odysseus and recognizes him and calls him by name before he has drunk the black blood of the sacrifice; even Odysseus' own mother cannot accomplish this, but must drink deep before her ghost can see her son for himself.\"\n\nAs a seer, \"Tiresias\" was \"a common title for soothsayers throughout Greek legendary history\" (Graves 1960, 105.5). In Greek literature, Tiresias' pronouncements are always given in short maxims which are often cryptic (gnomic), but never wrong. Often when his name is attached to a mythic prophecy, it is introduced simply to supply a personality to the generic example of a seer, not by any inherent connection of Tiresias with the myth: thus it is Tiresias who tells Amphytrion of Zeus and Alcmena and warns the mother of Narcissus that the boy will thrive as long as he never knows himself. This is his emblematic role in tragedy (\"see below\"). Like most oracles, he is generally extremely reluctant to offer the whole of what he sees in his visions.\n\nTiresias appears as the name of a recurring character in several stories and Greek tragedies concerning the legendary history of Thebes. In \"The Bacchae\", by Euripides, Tiresias appears with Cadmus, the founder and first king of Thebes, to warn the current king Pentheus against denouncing Dionysus as a god. Along with Cadmus, he dresses as a worshiper of Dionysus to go up the mountain to honor the new god with the Theban women in their Bacchic revels.\n\nIn Sophocles' \"Oedipus Rex\", Oedipus, the king of Thebes, calls upon Tiresias to aid in the investigation of the killing of the previous king Laius. At first, Tiresias refuses to give a direct answer and instead hints that the killer is someone Oedipus really does not wish to find. However, after being provoked to anger by Oedipus' accusation first that he has no foresight and then that Tiresias had a hand in the murder, he reveals that in fact it was Oedipus himself who had (unwittingly) committed the crime. Outraged, Oedipus throws him out of the palace, but then afterwards realizes the truth.\nTiresias also appears in Sophocles' \"Antigone\". Creon, now king of Thebes, refuses to allow Polynices to be buried. His niece, Antigone, defies the order and is caught; Creon decrees that she is to be buried alive. The gods express their disapproval of Creon's decision through Tiresias, who tells Creon 'the city is sick through your fault.' \nTiresias and his prophecy are also involved in the story of the Epigoni.\n\nTiresias died after drinking water from the tainted spring Tilphussa, where he was struck by an arrow of Apollo.\n\nHis shade descended to the Asphodel Meadows, the first level of Hades. After his death, he was visited in the underworld by Odysseus to whom he gave valuable advice concerning the rest of his odyssey, such as how to get past Scylla and Charybdis. He even gave him advice where he should not eat the cattle of Helios on Thrinacia (advice which Odysseus' men did not follow which led to Odysseus' men getting killed by Zeus' thunderbolts during a storm).\n\nConnections with the paired serpents on the caduceus are often made (Brisson 1976:55–57).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12579987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12579987", "title": "Van T. Barfoot", "text": "Van T. Barfoot\n\nVan Thomas Barfoot (born Van Thurman Barfoot; June 15, 1919 – March 2, 2012) was a United States Army officer and a recipient of the United States military's highest decoration—the Medal of Honor—for his actions in World War II.\n\nBarfoot was born on June 15, 1919, in Edinburg, Mississippi. His grandmother was Choctaw, but Barfoot himself was not an official member of the Choctaw Nation; although he was eligible, his parents had never enrolled him.\n\nAfter enlisting in the Army from Carthage, Mississippi, in 1940 and completing his training, Barfoot served with the 1st Infantry Division in Louisiana and Puerto Rico. In December 1941, he was promoted to sergeant and reassigned to the Headquarters Amphibious Force Atlantic Fleet in Quantico, Virginia, where he served until the unit was deactivated in 1943. He next joined the 157th Infantry Regiment, 45th Infantry Division, and was shipped to Europe.\n\nDuring the Italian Campaign Barfoot participated in a series of amphibious landings: the Allied invasion of Sicily in July 1943, the invasion of mainland Italy at Salerno in September 1943, and finally the landings at Anzio in late January 1944. His unit pushed inland from Anzio, and by May 1944 had reached the small town of Carano in southern Italy, in the province of Latina. They set up defensive positions and Barfoot conducted patrols to scout the German lines. When his company was ordered to attack on the morning of 23 May 1944, Barfoot, now a technical sergeant, asked for permission to lead a squad. Because of the patrols he had made, he knew the terrain and the minefield which lay in front of the German position. He advanced alone through the minefield, following ditches and depressions, until he came within a few yards of a machine gun nest on the German flank. After taking out the gun and its crew with a hand grenade, he entered the German trench and advanced on a second machine gun, killing two soldiers and capturing three others. When he reached a third machine gun, the entire crew surrendered to him. Others also surrendered, and Barfoot captured a total of seventeen German soldiers and killed eight.\n\nWhen the Germans launched an armored counterattack with three Tiger tanks directly against his positions later that day, Barfoot disabled the lead tank with a bazooka, killed part of its crew with his Thompson submachine gun, and turned the German attack. He then advanced into enemy-held territory and destroyed an abandoned German artillery piece. He returned to his own lines and helped two wounded soldiers from his squad to the rear.\n\nBarfoot was subsequently commissioned as a second lieutenant. His division moved into France, and by September 1944 was serving in the Rhone valley. Lt. Barfoot learned he would be awarded the Medal of Honor and chose to have the presentation ceremony in the field, so that his soldiers could attend. He was formally presented with the medal on September 28, 1944, in Épinal, France, by Lieutenant General Alexander Patch.\n\nHaving grown up in the strictly segregated south, Barfoot was noted for a comment he made in 1945 regarding African-Americans. Democratic senator from Mississippi and Ku Klux Klan member Theodore G. Bilbo asked Barfoot if he had much trouble with the African-American soldiers he had served with during the war. To Bilbo's embarrassment, Barfoot responded, \"I found out after I did some fighting in this war that the colored boys fight just as good as the white boys...I've changed my idea a lot about colored people since I got into this war and so have a lot of other boys from the south\".\n\nBarfoot later served in the Korean War and the Vietnam War, and was awarded a Purple Heart. He reached the rank of colonel before retiring from the Army. In retirement, he lived on a farm in Amelia County, Virginia and later moved to, Henrico County, Virginia, near his daughter. On October 9, 2009, the portion of Mississippi Highway 16 which runs from Carthage through his hometown of Edinburg to the border between Leake and Neshoba counties was named the \"Van T. Barfoot Medal of Honor Highway\". A building at McGuire Veterans Hospital in Richmond, VA also carries his name.\n\nSecond Lieutenant Barfoot's official Medal of Honor citation reads:\n\nIn December 2009, the homeowners' association (HOA) of the Sussex Square, where Barfoot lived in Henrico County, Virginia, ordered him to remove the flagpole he had erected without their approval and from which he began flying the US flag regularly on Veterans Day. The HOA retained the Coates & Davenport law firm to threaten legal action to enforce their order. This news story first became public when Barfoot's son-in-law reported the story on local talk radio show, \"Elliot in the Morning\". Then Fox News and several other news networks picked up the story nationally. The association's bylaws do not forbid flagpoles, but the HOA ruled Barfoot, then aged 90, would not be allowed to use it \"for aesthetic reasons.\" Barfoot contested their order, \nand received support from the public (48,000 people on a Facebook page), from the American Legion, from military groups, and from many politicians, including Virginia Senators Mark Warner and Jim Webb, and White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs.\nBecause of the backlash and outrage it received, the association dropped its request on December 8, 2009, ending the controversy within one week.\n\nBarfoot suffered a skull fracture and bleeding in the brain from a fall in front of his home, and died two days later on March 2, 2012 at the age of 92.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28994786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28994786", "title": "Yu Jie", "text": "Yu Jie\n\nYu Jie (), is a Chinese writer and democracy activist. The bestselling author of more than 30 books, Yu was described by the \"New York Review of Books\" in 2012 as \"one of China's most prominent essayists and critics\".\n\nYu Jie is also active in the Chinese dissident movement, and was arrested and allegedly tortured in 2010 for his friendship with Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo and a critical biography of Prime Minister Wen Jiabao titled \"\". Following more than a year of house arrest, Yu emigrated to the US with his family in January 2012. Later that year, he was awarded the Civil Courage Prize of the Train Foundation.\n\nOriginally from Chengdu, Yu attended Peking University and majored in modern Chinese literature.\n\nHis first book, \"Fire and Ice\", included extensive political and social criticism. Upon its 1999 publication, Yu became a \"literary sensation\". In the same year, he met and befriended democracy activist Liu Xiaobo, and became active in the Chinese dissident movement. As part of his work with Liu, he read and commented on drafts of the democracy manifesto Charter 08 and helped found the Independent PEN Center.\n\nYu became a bestselling author in China and as of 2012, had written more than 30 books. However, his criticisms of the government eventually caused his works to be banned in mainland China.\n\nIn 2004, Yu published the piece \"Apologies to Tibet\" (向西藏懺悔) on boxun.com, which expressed regret for China's rule of Tibet and praised the efforts of Palden Gyatso, a pro-independence monk. His piece was criticized by Chinese netizens and he was heckled by overseas students in Los Angeles for attacking \"national unity\", but he dismissed these critics as angry brainwashed youth. Yu Jie also promotes reconciliation with Japan, the US invasion of Iraq, and religious freedom in China for Christians, after converting to Christianity himself.\n\nYu was detained by security officials in July 2010 to discuss his upcoming book \"\", \"a scathing critique\" of China's prime minister that Yu intended to publish in Hong Kong. The book argued that Wen's warm, empathic public persona was simply a facade, and that he shared the same goals of other Chinese leaders. According to Yu, one official stated that his book was \"harming state security and the national interest\", and if it were published, Yu would probably be imprisoned \"for many years\". Yu nonetheless proceeded with publication of the book in August.\n\nOn October 8, 2010, Yu's good friend Liu Xiaobo was named the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. On October 13, Yu was placed under house arrest, allegedly for his plans to write a biography of Liu as well as for having proceeded with the publication of \"China's Best Actor\". He later wrote that during this period, \"I was tortured by the country’s secret police and nearly lost my life\". According to Yu, he was stripped naked, burned with cigarettes, and beaten until he was hospitalized.\n\nHis house arrest, and a concomitant travel ban, lasted until January 2012, at which point he and his family emigrated to the US. Following his emigration, he submitted a nine-page report detailing his alleged torture to the US State Department and the United Nations Human Rights Council. He stated that he was continuing to write Liu's biography, and was also at work on a new biography of Chinese president Hu Jintao titled \"Hu Jintao: Cold-Blooded Tyrant\".\n\nYu has a wife, Liu Min, and one son, Yu Guangyi. He converted to Christianity in 2003, and in China was a member of a house church.\n\nIn 2012, Yu was named the winner of the 2012 Civil Courage Prize of the US-based Train Foundation. The prize recognizes \"steadfast resistance to evil at great personal risk — rather than military valor.\" The prize comes with a $50,000 honorarium. He was the first Chinese person to win the award, and he stated that he hoped the prize would encourage China's dissidents.\n\n"}
{"id": "55554100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55554100", "title": "Yun Seok-yang", "text": "Yun Seok-yang\n\nYun Seok-yang () (1966-) is a South Korean whistleblower. In October 4, 1990, Yun was an army soldier. He blew the whistle about illegal inspections of civilians at the Defense Security Command. He is a public interest informant who became the driving force for the presidential campaign of Roh Tae-woo that year.\n\nIn 1966, he was born in Iksan, Jeollabuk-do, Korea. He became exhausted from student activism. He joined the ROK Army on active duty in May 1990. He was questioned by Lee Seung-sup and Chief Kim Hyo-su to confess his revolutionary activities and other members. He came back to Seobingo and was working with Kim Seong-seop, Se-jang Lee Seung-seop, Deputy Director Lee Deok-ryeol, Park Dae-ho and Cho Jae- He put three floppy disks in his bag and escaped the Security Command in the early morning of September 23, 1990.\n\nYun Seok-yang escaped the Army Security Command, visited the National Council of Churches in Korea and submitted a declaration of conscience and summary of his 80-day Army Security Command experience. On September 25, he called a senior colleague who worked as a reporter for the National Press Workers' Union and met him at Jongno-gu, Seoul and revealed that he was carrying materials from the Armed Forces Security Command.\n\nOn October 4, he held a press conference and revealed that \"security companies are conducting inspections against 1,300 students, including politicians, journalists, professors and students. At that time, the data that he revealed included the house structure, entry and escape route, and relatives' residence. In the case of emergency martial law, and government-prepared materials in advance so that they can arrest them immediately.\n\nTwo years after his arrest, he was rearrested on suspicion of desertion from duty in 1992.\nHe completed his sentence and was released from prison in October 1994.\n"}
