{"id": "1178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178", "title": "Afterlife", "text": "Afterlife\n\nAfterlife (also referred to as life after death) is the concept that an essential part of an individual's identity or the stream of consciousness continues to manifest after the death of the physical body. According to various ideas about the afterlife, the essential aspect of the individual that lives on after death may be some partial element, or the entire soul or spirit, of an individual, which carries with it and may confer personal identity or, on the contrary, may not, as in Indian nirvana. Belief in an afterlife, which may be naturalistic or supernatural, is in contrast to the belief in oblivion after death.\n\nIn some views, this continued existence often takes place in a spiritual realm, and in other popular views, the individual may be reborn into this world and begin the life cycle over again, likely with no memory of what they have done in the past. In this latter view, such rebirths and deaths may take place over and over again continuously until the individual gains entry to a spiritual realm or Otherworld. Major views on the afterlife derive from religion, esotericism and metaphysics.\n\nSome belief systems, such as those in the Abrahamic tradition, hold that the dead go to a specific plane of existence after death, as determined by God, or other divine judgment, based on their actions or beliefs during life. In contrast, in systems of reincarnation, such as those in the Indian religions, the nature of the continued existence is determined directly by the actions of the individual in the ended life, rather than through the decision of a different being.\nTheists generally believe some type of afterlife awaits people when they die. Members of some generally non-theistic religions tend to believe in an afterlife, but without reference to a deity. The Sadducees were an ancient Jewish sect that generally believed that there was a God but no afterlife.\n\nMany religions, whether they believe in the soul's existence in another world like Christianity, Islam and many pagan belief systems, or in reincarnation like many forms of Hinduism and Buddhism, believe that one's status in the afterlife is a reward or punishment for their conduct during life.\n\nReincarnation is the philosophical or religious concept that an aspect of a living being starts a new life in a different physical body or form after each biological death. It is also called rebirth or transmigration, and is a part of the Saṃsāra doctrine of cyclic existence. It is a central tenet of all major Indian religions, namely Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism, and Sikhism. The idea of reincarnation is found in many ancient cultures, and a belief in rebirth/metempsychosis was held by Greek historic figures, such as Pythagoras, Socrates, and Plato. It is also a common belief of various ancient and modern religions such as Spiritism, Theosophy, and Eckankar and is found as well in many tribal societies around the world, in places such as Australia, East Asia, Siberia, and South America.\n\nAlthough the majority of denominations within the Abrahamic religions of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam do not believe that individuals reincarnate, particular groups within these religions do refer to reincarnation; these groups include the mainstream historical and contemporary followers of Kabbalah, the Cathars, Alawites, the Druze, and the Rosicrucians. The historical relations between these sects and the beliefs about reincarnation that were characteristic of Neoplatonism, Orphism, Hermeticism, Manicheanism, and Gnosticism of the Roman era as well as the Indian religions have been the subject of recent scholarly research. Unity Church and its founder Charles Fillmore teach reincarnation.\n\nRosicrucians speak of a life review period occurring immediately after death and before entering the afterlife's planes of existence (before the silver cord is broken), followed by a judgment, more akin to a final review or end report over one's life.\n\nHeaven, the heavens, seven heavens, pure lands, Tian, Jannah, Valhalla, or the Summerland, is a common religious, cosmological, or transcendent place where beings such as gods, angels, jinn, saints, or venerated ancestors are said to originate, be enthroned, or live. According to the beliefs of some religions, heavenly beings can descend to earth or incarnate, and earthly beings can ascend to heaven in the afterlife, or in exceptional cases enter heaven alive.\n\nHeaven is often described as a \"higher place\", the holiest place, a paradise, in contrast to hell or the underworld or the \"low places\", and universally or conditionally accessible by earthly beings according to various standards of divinity, goodness, piety, faith or other virtues or right beliefs or simply the will of God. Some believe in the possibility of a heaven on Earth in a world to come.\n\nIn Indian religions, heaven is considered as \"Svarga loka\". There are seven positive regions the soul can go to after death and seven negative regions. After completing its stay in the respective region, the soul is subjected to rebirth in different living forms according to its \"karma\". This cycle can be broken after a soul achieves \"Moksha\" or \"Nirvana\". Any place of existence, either of humans, souls or deities, outside the tangible world (heaven, hell, or other) is referred to as otherworld.\n\nHell, in many religious and folkloric traditions, is a place of torment and punishment in the afterlife. Religions with a linear divine history often depict hell as an eternal destination, while religions with a cyclic history often depict a hell as an intermediary period between incarnations. Typically, these traditions locate hell in another dimension or under the earth's surface and often include entrances to hell from the land of the living. Other afterlife destinations include purgatory and limbo.\n\nTraditions that do not conceive of the afterlife as a place of punishment or reward merely describe hell as an abode of the dead, the grave, a neutral place (for example, sheol or Hades) located under the surface of earth.\n\nThe afterlife played an important role in Ancient Egyptian religion, and its belief system is one of the earliest known in recorded history. When the body died, parts of its soul known as \"ka\" (body double) and the \"ba\" (personality) would go to the Kingdom of the Dead. While the soul dwelt in the Fields of Aaru, Osiris demanded work as restitution for the protection he provided. Statues were placed in the tombs to serve as substitutes for the deceased.\n\nArriving at one's reward in afterlife was a demanding ordeal, requiring a sin-free heart and the ability to recite the spells, passwords and formulae of the Book of the Dead. In the Hall of Two Truths, the deceased's heart was weighed against the \"Shu\" feather of truth and justice taken from the headdress of the goddess Ma'at. If the heart was lighter than the feather, they could pass on, but if it were heavier they would be devoured by the demon Ammit.\n\nEgyptians also believed that being mummified and put in a sarcophagus (an ancient Egyptian \"coffin\" carved with complex symbols and designs, as well as pictures and hieroglyphs) was the only way to have an afterlife. Only if the corpse had been properly embalmed and entombed in a mastaba, could the dead live again in the Fields of Yalu and accompany the Sun on its daily ride. Due to the dangers the afterlife posed, the Book of the Dead was placed in the tomb with the body as well as food, jewellery, and 'curses'. They also used the \"opening of the mouth\".\n\nAncient Egyptian civilization was based on religion; their belief in the rebirth after death became the driving force behind their funeral practices. Death was simply a temporary interruption, rather than complete cessation, of life, and that eternal life could be ensured by means like piety to the gods, preservation of the physical form through mummification, and the provision of statuary and other funerary equipment. Each human consisted of the physical body, the \"ka\", the \"ba\", and the \"akh\". The Name and Shadow were also living entities. To enjoy the afterlife, all these elements had to be sustained and protected from harm.\n\nOn March 30, 2010, a spokesman for the Egyptian Culture Ministry claimed it had unearthed a large red granite door in Luxor with inscriptions by User, a powerful adviser to the 18th dynasty Queen Hatshepsut who ruled between 1479 BC and 1458 BC, the longest of any woman. It believes the false door is a 'door to the Afterlife'. According to the archaeologists, the door was reused in a structure in Roman Egypt.\n\nThe Greek god Hades is known in Greek mythology as the king of the underworld, a place where souls live after death. The Greek god Hermes, the messenger of the gods, would take the dead soul of a person to the underworld (sometimes called Hades or the House of Hades). Hermes would leave the soul on the banks of the River Styx, the river between life and death.\n\nCharon, also known as the ferry-man, would take the soul across the river to Hades, if the soul had gold: Upon burial, the family of the dead soul would put coins under the deceased's tongue. Once crossed, the soul would be judged by Aeacus, Rhadamanthus and King Minos. The soul would be sent to Elysium, Tartarus, Asphodel Fields, or the Fields of Punishment. The Elysian Fields were for the ones that lived pure lives. It consisted of green fields, valleys and mountains, everyone there was peaceful and contented, and the Sun always shone there. Tartarus was for the people that blasphemed against the gods, or were simply rebellious and consciously evil.\n\nThe Asphodel Fields were for a varied selection of human souls: Those whose sins equalled their goodness, were indecisive in their lives, or were not judged. The Fields of Punishment were for people that had sinned often, but not so much as to be deserving of Tartarus. In Tartarus, the soul would be punished by being burned in lava, or stretched on racks. Some heroes of Greek legend are allowed to visit the underworld. The Romans had a similar belief system about the afterlife, with Hades becoming known as Pluto. In the ancient Greek myth about the Labours of Heracles, the hero Heracles had to travel to the underworld to capture Cerberus, the three-headed guard dog, as one of his tasks.\n\nIn \"Dream of Scipio\", Cicero describes what seems to be an out of body experience, of the soul traveling high above the Earth, looking down at the small planet, from far away.\n\nIn Book VI of Virgil's \"Aeneid\", the hero, Aeneas, travels to the underworld to see his father. By the River Styx, he sees the souls of those not given a proper burial, forced to wait by the river until someone buries them. While down there, along with the dead, he is shown the place where the wrongly convicted reside, the fields of sorrow where those who committed suicide and now regret it reside, including Aeneas' former lover, the warriors and shades, Tartarus (where the titans and powerful non-mortal enemies of the Olympians reside) where he can hear the groans of the imprisoned, the palace of Pluto, and the fields of Elysium where the descendants of the divine and bravest heroes reside. He sees the river of forgetfulness, Lethe, which the dead must drink to forget their life and begin anew. Lastly, his father shows him all of the future heroes of Rome who will live if Aeneas fulfills his destiny in founding the city.\n\nThe Poetic and Prose Eddas, the oldest sources for information on the Norse concept of the afterlife, vary in their description of the several realms that are described as falling under this topic. The most well-known are:\n\nShe'ol, in the Hebrew Bible, is a place of darkness to which all the dead go, both the righteous and the unrighteous, regardless of the moral choices made in life, a place of stillness and darkness cut off from life and from God.\n\nThe inhabitants of Sheol are the \"shades\" (\"rephaim\"), entities without personality or strength. Under some circumstances they are thought to be able to be contacted by the living, as the Witch of Endor contacts the shade of Samuel for Saul, but such practices are forbidden (Deuteronomy 18:10).\n\nWhile the Hebrew Bible appears to describe Sheol as the permanent place of the dead, in the Second Temple period (roughly 500 BC–70 AD) a more diverse set of ideas developed. In some texts, Sheol is considered to be the home of both the righteous and the wicked, separated into respective compartments; in others, it was considered a place of punishment, meant for the wicked dead alone. When the Hebrew scriptures were translated into Greek in ancient Alexandria around 200 BC, the word \"Hades\" (the Greek underworld) was substituted for Sheol. This is reflected in the New Testament where Hades is both the underworld of the dead and the personification of the evil it represents.\n\nThe Talmud offers a number of thoughts relating to the afterlife. After death, the soul is brought for judgment. Those who have led pristine lives enter immediately into the \"Olam Haba\" or world to come. Most do not enter the world to come immediately, but now experience a period of review of their earthly actions and they are made aware of what they have done wrong. Some view this period as being a \"re-schooling\", with the soul gaining wisdom as one's errors are reviewed. Others view this period to include spiritual discomfort for past wrongs. At the end of this period, not longer than one year, the soul then takes its place in the world to come. Although discomforts are made part of certain Jewish conceptions of the afterlife, the concept of \"eternal damnation\", so prevalent in other religions, is not a tenet of the Jewish afterlife. According to the Talmud, extinction of the soul is reserved for a far smaller group of malicious and evil leaders, either whose very evil deeds go way beyond norms, or who lead large groups of people to utmost evil.\n\nMaimonides describes the \"Olam Haba\" in spiritual terms, relegating the prophesied physical resurrection to the status of a future miracle, unrelated to the afterlife or the Messianic era. According to Maimonides, an afterlife continues for the soul of every human being, a soul now separated from the body in which it was \"housed\" during its earthly existence.\n\nThe Zohar describes Gehenna not as a place of punishment for the wicked but as a place of spiritual purification for souls.\n\nAlthough there is no reference to reincarnation in the Talmud or any prior writings, according to rabbis such as Avraham Arieh Trugman, reincarnation is recognized as being part and parcel of Jewish tradition. Trugman explains that it is through oral tradition that the meanings of the Torah, its commandments and stories, are known and understood. The classic work of Jewish mysticism, the Zohar, is quoted liberally in all Jewish learning; in the Zohar the idea of reincarnation is mentioned repeatedly. Trugman states that in the last five centuries the concept of reincarnation, which until then had been a much hidden tradition within Judaism, was given open exposure.\n\nShraga Simmons commented that within the Bible itself, the idea [of reincarnation] is intimated in Deut. 25:5-10, Deut. 33:6 and Isaiah 22:14, 65:6.\n\nYirmiyahu Ullman wrote that reincarnation is an \"ancient, mainstream belief in Judaism\". The Zohar makes frequent and lengthy references to reincarnation. Onkelos, a righteous convert and authoritative commentator of the same period, explained the verse, \"Let Reuben live and not die ...\" (Deuteronomy 33:6) to mean that Reuben should merit the World to Come directly, and not have to die again as a result of being reincarnated. Torah scholar, commentator and kabbalist, Nachmanides (Ramban 1195–1270), attributed Job's suffering to reincarnation, as hinted in Job's saying \"God does all these things twice or three times with a man, to bring back his soul from the pit to ... the light of the living' (Job 33:29,30).\"\n\nReincarnation, called \"gilgul\", became popular in folk belief, and is found in much Yiddish literature among Ashkenazi Jews. Among a few kabbalists, it was posited that some human souls could end up being reincarnated into non-human bodies. These ideas were found in a number of Kabbalistic works from the 13th century, and also among many mystics in the late 16th century. Martin Buber's early collection of stories of the Baal Shem Tov's life includes several that refer to people reincarnating in successive lives.\n\nAmong well known (generally non-kabbalist or anti-kabbalist) rabbis who rejected the idea of reincarnation are Saadia Gaon, David Kimhi, Hasdai Crescas, Yedayah Bedershi (early 14th century), Joseph Albo, Abraham ibn Daud, the Rosh and Leon de Modena. Saadia Gaon, in Emunoth ve-Deoth (Hebrew: \"beliefs and opinions\") concludes Section VI with a refutation of the doctrine of metempsychosis (reincarnation). While rebutting reincarnation, Saadia Gaon further states that Jews who hold to reincarnation have adopted non-Jewish beliefs. By no means do all Jews today believe in reincarnation, but belief in reincarnation is not uncommon among many Jews, including Orthodox.\n\nOther well-known rabbis who are reincarnationists include Yonassan Gershom, Abraham Isaac Kook, Talmud scholar Adin Steinsaltz, DovBer Pinson, David M. Wexelman, Zalman Schachter, and many others. Reincarnation is cited by authoritative biblical commentators, including Ramban (Nachmanides), Menachem Recanti and Rabbenu Bachya.\n\nAmong the many volumes of Yitzchak Luria, most of which come down from the pen of his primary disciple, Chaim Vital, are insights explaining issues related to reincarnation. His \"Shaar HaGilgulim\", \"The Gates of Reincarnation\", is a book devoted exclusively to the subject of reincarnation in Judaism.\n\nRabbi Naftali Silberberg of The Rohr Jewish Learning Institute notes that \"Many ideas that originate in other religions and belief systems have been popularized in the media and are taken for granted by unassuming Jews.\"\n\nMainstream Christianity professes belief in the Nicene Creed, and English versions of the Nicene Creed in current use include the phrase: \"We look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come.\" Although punishments are made part of certain Christian conceptions of the afterlife, the prevalent concept of \"eternal damnation\" is a tenet of the Christian afterlife.\n\nWhen questioned by the Sadducees about the resurrection of the dead (in a context relating to who one's spouse would be if one had been married several times in life), Jesus said that marriage will be irrelevant after the resurrection as the resurrected will be like the angels in heaven.\n\nJesus also maintained that the time would come when the dead would hear the voice of the Son of God, and all who were in the tombs would come out, who have done good deeds to the resurrection of life, but those who have done wicked deeds to the resurrection of condemnation.\n\nThe Book of Enoch describes Sheol as divided into four compartments for four types of the dead: the faithful saints who await resurrection in Paradise, the merely virtuous who await their reward, the wicked who await punishment, and the wicked who have already been punished and will not be resurrected on Judgment Day. The Book of Enoch is considered apocryphal by most denominations of Christianity and all denominations of Judaism.\n\nThe book of 2 Maccabees gives a clear account of the dead awaiting a future resurrection and judgment, plus prayers and offerings for the dead to remove the burden of sin.\nThe author of Luke recounts the story of Lazarus and the rich man, which shows people in Hades awaiting the resurrection either in comfort or torment. The author of the Book of Revelation writes about God and the angels versus Satan and demons in an epic battle at the end of times when all souls are judged. There is mention of ghostly bodies of past prophets, and the transfiguration.\n\nThe non-canonical Acts of Paul and Thecla speak of the efficacy of prayer for the dead, so that they might be \"translated to a state of happiness\".\n\nHippolytus of Rome pictures the underworld (Hades) as a place where the righteous dead, awaiting in the bosom of Abraham their resurrection, rejoice at their future prospect, while the unrighteous are tormented at the sight of the \"lake of unquenchable fire\" into which they are destined to be cast.\n\nGregory of Nyssa discusses the long-before believed possibility of purification of souls after death.\n\nPope Gregory I repeats the concept, articulated over a century earlier by Gregory of Nyssa that the saved suffer purification after death, in connection with which he wrote of \"purgatorial flames\".\n\nThe noun \"purgatorium\" (Latin: place of cleansing) is used for the first time to describe a state of painful purification of the saved after life. The same word in adjectival form (\"purgatorius -a -um\", cleansing), which appears also in non-religious writing, was already used by Christians such as Augustine of Hippo and Pope Gregory I to refer to an after-death cleansing.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, theologians and philosophers presented various philosophies and beliefs. A notable example is Emanuel Swedenborg who wrote some 18 theological works which describe in detail the nature of the afterlife according to his claimed spiritual experiences, the most famous of which is \"Heaven and Hell\". His report of life there covers a wide range of topics, such as marriage in heaven (where all angels are married), children in heaven (where they are raised by angel parents), time and space in heaven (there are none), the after-death awakening process in the World of Spirits (a place halfway between Heaven and Hell and where people first wake up after death), the allowance of a free will choice between Heaven or Hell (as opposed to being sent to either one by God), the eternity of Hell (one could leave but would never want to), and that all angels or devils were once people on earth.\n\nThe \"Spiritual Combat\", a written work by Lorenzo Scupoli, states that four assaults are attempted by the “evil one” at the hour of death. The Catholic conception of the afterlife teaches that after the body dies, the soul is judged, the righteous and free of sin enter Heaven. However, those who die in unrepented mortal sin go to hell. In the 1990s, the Catechism of the Catholic Church defined hell not as punishment imposed on the sinner but rather as the sinner's self-exclusion from God. Unlike other Christian groups, the Catholic Church teaches that those who die in a state of grace, but still carry venial sin go to a place called Purgatory where they undergo purification to enter Heaven.\n\nDespite popular opinion, Limbo, which was elaborated upon by theologians beginning in the Middle Ages, was never recognized as a dogma of the Catholic Church, yet, at times, it has been a very popular theological theory within the Church. Limbo is a theory that unbaptized but innocent souls, such as those of infants, virtuous individuals who lived before Jesus Christ was born on earth, or those that die before baptism exist in neither Heaven or Hell proper. Therefore, these souls neither merit the beatific vision, nor are subjected to any punishment, because they are not guilty of any personal sin although they have not received baptism, so still bear original sin. So they are generally seen as existing in a state of natural, but not supernatural, happiness, until the end of time.\n\nIn other Christian denominations it has been described as an intermediate place or state of confinement in oblivion and neglect.\n\nThe notion of purgatory is associated particularly with the Catholic Church. In the Catholic Church, all those who die in God's grace and friendship, but still imperfectly purified, are indeed assured of their eternal salvation; but after death they undergo purification, so as to achieve the holiness necessary to enter the joy of heaven or the final purification of the elect, which is entirely different from the punishment of the damned. The tradition of the church, by reference to certain texts of scripture, speaks of a \"cleansing fire\" although it is not always called purgatory.\n\nAnglicans of the Anglo-Catholic tradition generally also hold to the belief. John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, believed in an intermediate state between death and the resurrection of the dead and in the possibility of \"continuing to grow in holiness there\", but Methodism does not officially affirm this belief and denies the possibility of helping by prayer any who may be in that state.\n\nThe Orthodox Church is intentionally reticent on the afterlife, as it acknowledges the mystery especially of things that have not yet occurred. Beyond the second coming of Jesus, bodily resurrection, and final judgment, all of which is affirmed in the Nicene Creed (325 CE), Orthodoxy does not teach much else in any definitive manner. Unlike Western forms of Christianity, however, Orthodoxy is traditionally non-dualist and does not teach that there are two separate literal locations of heaven and hell, but instead acknowledges that \"the 'location' of one’s final destiny—heaven or hell—as being figurative.\" Instead, Orthodoxy teaches that the final judgment is simply one's uniform encounter with divine love and mercy, but this encounter is experienced multifariously depending on the extent to which one has been transformed, partaken of divinity, and is therefore compatible or incompatible with God. \"The monadic, immutable, and ceaseless object of eschatological encounter is therefore the love and mercy of God, his glory which infuses the heavenly temple, and it is the subjective human reaction which engenders multiplicity or any division of experience.\" For instance, St. Isaac the Syrian observes that \"those who are punished in Gehenna, are scourged by the scourge of love. ... The power of love works in two ways: it torments sinners . . . [as] bitter regret. But love inebriates the souls of the sons of Heaven by its delectability.\" In this sense, the divine action is always, immutably, and uniformly love and if one experiences this love negatively, the experience is then one of self-condemnation because of free will rather than condemnation by God. Orthodoxy therefore uses the description of Jesus' judgment in John 3:19-21 as their model: \"19 And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. 20 For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. 21 But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God.\" As a characteristically Orthodox understanding, then, Fr. Thomas Hopko writes, \"[I]t is precisely the presence of God’s mercy and love which cause the torment of the wicked. God does not punish; he forgives. . . . In a word, God has mercy on all, whether all like it or not. If we like it, it is paradise; if we do not, it is hell. Every knee will bend before the Lord. Everything will be subject to Him. God in Christ will indeed be \"all and in all,\" with boundless mercy and unconditional pardon. But not all will rejoice in God's gift of forgiveness, and that choice will be judgment, the self-inflicted source of their sorrow and pain.\"\n\nMoreover, Orthodoxy includes a prevalent tradition of \"apokatastasis\", or the restoration of all things in the end. This has been taught most notably by Origen, but also many other Church fathers and Saints, including Gregory of Nyssa. The Second Council of Constantinople (553 C.E.) affirmed the orthodoxy of Gregory of Nyssa while simultaneously condemning Origen's brand of universalism because it taught the restoration back to our pre-existent state, which Orthodoxy doesn't teach. It is also a teaching of such eminent Orthodox theologians as Olivier Clément, Metropolitan Kallistos Ware, and Bishop Hilarion Alfeyev. Although apokatastasis is not a dogma of the church but instead a theologoumena, it is no less a teaching of the Orthodox Church than its rejection. As Met. Kallistos Ware explains, \"It is heretical to say that all must be saved, for this is to deny free will; but, it is legitimate to hope that all may be saved,\" as insisting on torment without end also denies free will.\n\nJoseph F. Smith of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints presents an elaborate vision of the afterlife. It is revealed as the scene of an extensive missionary effort by righteous spirits in paradise to redeem those still in darkness—a spirit prison or \"hell\" where the spirits of the dead remain until judgment. It is divided into two parts: Spirit Prison and Paradise. Together these are also known as the Spirit World (also Abraham's Bosom; see Luke 16:19-25). They believe that Christ visited spirit prison (1 Peter 3:18-20) and opened the gate for those who repent to cross over to Paradise. This is similar to the Harrowing of Hell doctrine of some mainstream Christian faiths. Both Spirit Prison and Paradise are temporary according to Latter-day Saint beliefs. After the resurrection, spirits are assigned \"permanently\" to three degrees of heavenly glory, determined by how they lived– Celestial, Terrestrial, and Telestial.(1 Cor 15:44-42; Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76) Sons of Perdition, or those who have known and seen God and deny it, will be sent to the realm of Satan, which is called Outer Darkness, where they shall live in misery and agony forever.\n\nThe Celestial Kingdom is believed to be a place where we can live eternally with our families. Progression does not end once one has entered the Celestial Kingdom, but it extends eternally. According to \"True to the Faith\" (a handbook on doctrines in the LDS faith), \"The celestial kingdom is the place prepared for those who have \"received the testimony of Jesus\" and been \"made perfect through Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, who wrought out this perfect atonement through the shedding of his own blood\" (D&C 76:51, 69). To inherit this gift, we must receive the ordinances of salvation, keep the commandments, and repent of our sins.\"\n\nJehovah's Witnesses occasionally use terms such as \"afterlife\" to refer to any hope for the dead, but they understand Ecclesiastes 9:5 to preclude belief in an immortal soul. Individuals judged by God to be wicked, such as in the Great Flood or at Armageddon, are given no hope of an afterlife. However, they believe that after Armageddon there will be a bodily resurrection of \"both righteous and unrighteous\" dead (but not the \"wicked\"). Survivors of Armageddon and those who are resurrected are then to gradually restore earth to a paradise. After Armageddon, unrepentant sinners are punished with eternal death (non-existence).\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Church, teaches that the first death, or death brought about by living on a planet with sinful conditions (sickness, old age, accident, etc.) is a sleep of the soul. Adventists believe that the body + the breath of God = a living soul. Like Jehovah's Witnesses, Adventists use key phrases from the Bible, such as \"For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not any thing, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.\" (Eccl. 9:5 KJV). Adventists also point to the fact that the wage of sin is death and God alone is immortal. Adventists believe God will grant eternal life to the redeemed who are resurrected at Jesus' second coming. Until then, all those who have died are \"asleep\". When Jesus the Christ, who is the Word and the Bread of Life, comes a second time, the righteous will be raised incorruptible and will be taken in the clouds to meet their Lord. The righteous will live in heaven for a thousand years (the millennium) where they will sit with God in judgment over the unredeemed and the fallen angels. During the time the redeemed are in heaven, the Earth will be devoid of human and animal inhabitation. Only the fallen angels will be left alive. The second resurrection is of the unrighteous, when Jesus brings the New Jerusalem down from heaven to relocate to Earth. Jesus will call to life all those who are unrighteous. Satan and his angels will convince the unrighteous to surround the city, but hell fire and brimstone will fall from heaven and consume them, thus cleansing Earth of all sin. The universe will be then free from sin forever. This is called the second death. On the new earth God will provide an eternal home for all the redeemed and a perfect environment for everlasting life, where Eden will be restored. The great controversy will be ended and sin will be no more. God will reign in perfect harmony forever. (Rom. 6:23; 1 Tim. 6:15, 16; Eccl. 9:5, 6; Ps. 146:3, 4; John 11:11-14; Col. 3:4; 1 Cor. 15:51-54; 1 Thess. 4:13-17; John 5:28, 29; Rev. 20:1-10; Rev. 20; 1 Cor. 6:2, 3; Jer. 4:23-26; Rev. 21:1-5; Mal. 4:1; Eze. 28:18, 19; 2 Peter 3:13; Isa. 35; 65:17-25; Matt. 5:5; Rev. 21:1-7; 22:1-5; 11:15.)\n\nThe Islamic belief in the afterlife as stated in the Quran is descriptive. The Arabic word for Paradise is \"Jannah\" and Hell is \"Jahannam\". Their level of comfort while in the grave (according to some commentators) depends wholly on their level of \"iman\" or faith in the one almighty creator or supreme being (God or Allah). In order for one to achieve proper, firm and healthy \"iman\" one must practice righteous deeds or else his level of \"iman\" chokes and shrinks and eventually can wither away if one does not practice Islam long enough, hence the depth of practicing Islam is good deeds. One may also acquire \"tasbih\" and recite the names of Allah in such manner as \"Subahann Allah\" or \"Glory be to Allah\" over and over again to acquire good deeds.\n\nIn the Quran, God gives warning about grievous punishment to those who do not believe in the afterlife (\"Akhirah\"), and admonishes mankind that Hell is prepared for those who deny the meeting with him.\n\nIslam teaches that the purpose of Man's entire creation is to worship Allah alone, which includes being kind to other human beings and life including bugs, and to trees, by not oppressing them. Islam teaches that the life we live on Earth is nothing but a test for us and to determine each individual's ultimate abode, be it punishment or \"Jannat\" in the afterlife, which is eternal and everlasting.\n\n\"Jannah\" and \"Jahannam\" both have different levels. \"Jannah\" has eight gates and seven levels. The higher the level the better it is and the happier you are. \"Jahannam\" possess 7 deep terrible layers. The lower the layer the worse it is. Individuals will arrive at both everlasting homes during Judgment Day, which commences after the Angel Israfil blows the trumpet the second time. Islam teaches the continued existence of the soul and a transformed physical existence after death. Muslims believe there will be a day of judgment when all humans will be divided between the eternal destinations of Paradise and Hell.\n\nIn the 20th century, discussions about the afterlife address the interconnection between human action and divine judgment, the need for moral rectitude, and the eternal consequences of human action in this life and world.\n\nA central doctrine of the Quran is the Last Day, on which the world will be destroyed and Allah will raise all people and jinn from the dead to be judged. The Last Day is also called the Day of Standing Up, Day of Separation, Day of Reckoning, Day of Awakening, Day of Judgment, The Encompassing Day or The Hour.\n\nUntil the Day of Judgment, deceased souls remain in their graves awaiting the resurrection. However, they begin to feel immediately a taste of their destiny to come. Those bound for hell will suffer in their graves, while those bound for heaven will be in peace until that time.\n\nThe resurrection that will take place on the Last Day is physical, and is explained by suggesting that God will re-create the decayed body (17:100: \"Could they not see that God who created the heavens and the earth is able to create the like of them?\").\n\nOn the Last Day, resurrected humans and jinn will be judged by Allah according to their deeds. One's eternal destination depends on balance of good to bad deeds in life. They are either granted admission to Paradise, where they will enjoy spiritual and physical pleasures forever, or condemned to Hell to suffer spiritual and physical torment for eternity. The day of judgment is described as passing over Hell on a narrow bridge (as thin as human hair and sharper than a razor) in order to enter Paradise. Those who fall, weighted by their bad deeds, will remain in Hell forever.\n\nAhmadi Muslims believe that the afterlife is not material but of a spiritual nature. According to Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, the founder of Ahmadiyya sect in Islam, the soul will give birth to another rarer entity and will resemble the life on this earth in the sense that this entity will bear a similar relationship to the soul as the soul bears relationship with the human existence on earth. On earth, if a person leads a righteous life and submits to the will of God, his or her tastes become attuned to enjoying spiritual pleasures as opposed to carnal desires. With this, an \"embryonic soul\" begins to take shape. Different tastes are said to be born which a person given to carnal passions finds no enjoyment. For example, sacrifice of one's own rights over that of others becomes enjoyable, or that forgiveness becomes second nature. In such a state a person finds contentment and peace at heart and at this stage, according to Ahmadiyya beliefs, it can be said that a soul within the soul has begun to take shape.\n\nThe Sufi scholar Ibn 'Arabi defined Barzakh as the intermediate realm or \"isthmus.\" It is between the world of corporeal bodies and the world of spirits, and is a means of contact between the two worlds. Without it, there would be no contact between the two and both would cease to exist. He described it as simple and luminous, like the world of spirits, but also able to take on many different forms just like the world of corporeal bodies can. In broader terms Barzakh, \"is anything that separates two things\". It has been called the dream world in which the dreamer is in both life and death.\n\nThe teachings of the Bahá'í Faith state that the nature of the afterlife is beyond the understanding of those living, just as an unborn fetus cannot understand the nature of the world outside of the womb. The Bahá'í writings state that the soul is immortal and after death it will continue to progress until it attains God's presence. In Bahá'í belief, souls in the afterlife will continue to retain their individuality and consciousness and will be able to recognize and communicate spiritually with other souls whom they have made deep profound friendships with, such as their spouses.\n\nThe Bahá'í scriptures also state there are distinctions between souls in the afterlife, and that souls will recognize the worth of their own deeds and understand the consequences of their actions. It is explained that those souls that have turned toward God will experience gladness, while those who have lived in error will become aware of the opportunities they have lost. Also, in the Baha'i view, souls will be able to recognize the accomplishments of the souls that have reached the same level as themselves, but not those that have achieved a rank higher than them.\n\nThe Upanishads describe reincarnation (\"punarjanma\") (see also: samsara). The Bhagavad Gita, an important Hindu script, talks extensively about the afterlife. Here, Krishna says that just as a man discards his old clothes and wears new ones; similarly the soul discards the old body and takes on a new one. In Hinduism, the belief is that the body is nothing but a shell, the soul inside is immutable and indestructible and takes on different lives in a cycle of birth and death. The end of this cycle is called \"mukti\" (Sanskrit: मुक्ति) and staying finally with supreme God forever; is \"moksha\" (Sanskrit: मोक्ष) or salvation.\n\nThe Garuda Purana deals solely with what happens to a person after death. The God of Death Yama sends his representatives to collect the soul from a person's body whenever he is due for death and they take the soul to Yama. A record of each person's timings & deeds performed by him is kept in a ledger by Yama's assistant, Chitragupta.\n\nAccording to the Garuda Purana, a soul after leaving the body travels through a very long and dark tunnel towards the South. This is why an oil lamp is lit and kept beside the head of the corpse, to light the dark tunnel and allow the soul to travel comfortably.\n\nThe soul, called \"atman\" leaves the body and reincarnates itself according to the deeds or \"karma\" performed by one in last birth. Rebirth would be in form of animals or other lower creatures if one performed bad karmas and in human form in a good family with joyous lifetime if the person was good in last birth. In between the two births a human is also required to either face punishments for bad karmas in \"naraka\" or hell or enjoy for the good karmas in \"swarga\" or heaven for good deeds. Whenever his or her punishments or rewards are over he or she is sent back to earth, also known as \"Mrutyulok\" or human world. A person stays with the God or ultimate power when he discharges only & only \"yajna karma\" (means work done for satisfaction of supreme lord only) in last birth and the same is called as \"moksha\" or \"nirvana\", which is the ultimate goal of a self realised soul. \"Atma\" moves with \"Parmatma\" or the greatest soul. According to Bhagavad Gita an \"Atma\" or soul never dies, what dies is the body only made of five elements—Earth, Water, Fire, Air, and Sky. Soul is believed to be indestructible. None of the five elements can harm or influence it. Hinduism through Garuda Purana also describes in detail various types of \"narkas\" or Hells where a person after death is punished for his bad \"karmas\" and dealt with accordingly.\n\nHindus also believe in \"karma\". \"Karma\" is the accumulated sums of one's good or bad deeds. \"Satkarma\" means good deeds, \"vikarma\" means bad deeds. According to Hinduism the basic concept of karma is 'As you sow, you shall reap'. So, if a person has lived a good life, they will be rewarded in the afterlife. Similarly their sum of bad deeds will be mirrored in their next life. Good karma brings good rewards and bad karmas lead to bad results. There is no judgment here. People accumulate karma through their actions and even thoughts. In Bhagavad Gita when Arjuna hesitates to kill his kith and kin the lord reprimands him saying thus \"Do you believe that you are the doer of the action. No. You are merely an instrument in MY hands. Do you believe that the people in front of you are living? Dear Arjuna, they are already dead. As a \"kshatriya\" (warrior) it is your duty to protect your people and land. If you fail to do your duty, then you are not adhering to dharmic principles.\"\n\nBuddhists maintain that rebirth takes place without an unchanging self or soul passing from one form to another. The type of rebirth will be conditioned by the moral tone of the person's actions (kamma or karma). For example, if a person has committed harmful actions of body, speech and mind based on greed, hatred and delusion, rebirth in a lower realm, i.e. an animal, a hungry ghost or a hell realm, is to be expected. On the other hand, where a person has performed skillful actions based on generosity, loving-kindness (metta), compassion and wisdom, rebirth in a happy realm, i.e. human or one of the many heavenly realms, can be expected.\n\nYet the mechanism of rebirth with kamma is not deterministic. It depends on various levels of kamma. The most important moment that determines where a person is reborn into is the last thought moment. At that moment, heavy kamma would ripen if there were performed, if not then near death kamma, if not then habitual kamma, finally if none of the above happened, then residual kamma from previous actions can ripen. According to Theravada Buddhism, there are 31 realms of existence that one can be reborn into.\n\nPure Land Buddhism of Mahayana believes in a special place apart from the 31 planes of existence called Pure Land. It is believed that each Buddha has their own pure land, created out of their merits for the sake of sentient beings who recall them mindfully to be able to be reborn in their pure land and train to become a Buddha there. Thus the main practice of pure land Buddhism is to chant a Buddha's name.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism the Tibetan Book of the Dead explains the intermediate state of humans between death and reincarnation. The deceased will find the bright light of wisdom, which shows a straightforward path to move upward and leave the cycle of reincarnation. There are various reasons why the deceased do not follow that light. Some had no briefing about the intermediate state in the former life. Others only used to follow their basic instincts like animals. And some have fear, which results from foul deeds in the former life or from insistent haughtiness. In the intermediate state the awareness is very flexible, so it is important to be virtuous, adopt a positive attitude, and avoid negative ideas. Ideas which are rising from subconsciousness can cause extreme tempers and cowing visions. In this situation they have to understand, that these manifestations are just reflections of the inner thoughts. No one can really hurt them, because they have no more material body. The deceased get help from different Buddhas who show them the path to the bright light. The ones who do not follow the path after all will get hints for a better reincarnation. They have to release the things and beings on which or whom they still hang from the life before. It is recommended to choose a family where the parents trust in the Dharma and to reincarnate with the will to care for the welfare of all beings.\n\n\"Life is cosmic energy of the universe and after death it merges in universe again and as the time comes to find the suitable place for the entity died in the life condition it gets born. There are 10 life states of any life: Hell, hunger, anger, animality, rapture, humanity, learning, realization, bodhisatva and buddhahood. The life dies in which life condition it reborn in the same life condition.\"\n\nSikhism may have a belief in the afterlife. They believe that the soul belongs to the spiritual universe which has its origins in God. However it's been a matter of great debate amongst the Sikhs about Sikhism's belief in afterlife. Many believe that Sikhism endorses the afterlife and the concept of reward and punishment as there are verses given in \"Guru Granth Sahib\", but a large number of Sikhs believe otherwise and treat those verses as metaphorical or poetic.\n\nAlso it has been noted by many scholars that the Guru Granth Sahib includes poetic renditions from multiple saints and religious traditions like that of Kabir, Farid and Ramananda. The essential doctrine is to experience the divine through simple living, meditation and contemplation while being alive. Sikhism also has the belief of being in union with God while living. Accounts of afterlife are considered to be aimed at the popular prevailing views of the time so as to provide a referential framework without necessarily establishing a belief in the afterlife. Thus while it is also acknowledged that living the life of a householder is above the metaphysical truth, Sikhism can be considered agnostic to the question of an afterlife. Some scholars also interpret the mention of reincarnation to be naturalistic akin to the biogeochemical cycles.\n\nBut if one analyses the Sikh Scriptures carefully, one may find that on many occasions the afterlife and the existence of heaven and hell are mentioned in \"Guru Granth Sahib\" and in \"Dasam granth\", so from that it can be concluded that Sikhism does believe in the existence of heaven and hell; however, heaven and hell are created to temporarily reward and punish, and one will then take birth again until one merges in God. According to the Sikh scriptures, the human form is the closet form to God and the best opportunity for a human being to attain salvation and merge back with God. Sikh Gurus said that nothing dies, nothing is born, everything is ever present, and it just changes forms. Like standing in front of a wardrobe, you pick up a dress and wear it and then you discard it. You wear another one. Thus, in the view of Sikhism, your soul is never born and never dies. Your soul is a part of God and hence lives forever.\n\nJainism also believes in the after life. They believe that the soul takes on a body form based on previous karmas or actions performed by that soul through eternity. Jains believe the soul is eternal and that the freedom from the cycle of reincarnation is the means to attain eternal bliss.\n\nTraditional African religions are diverse in their beliefs in an afterlife. Hunter-gatherer societies such as the Hadza have no particular belief in an afterlife, and the death of an individual is a straightforward end to their existence. Ancestor cults are found throughout Sub-Saharan Africa, including cultures like the Yombe, Beng, Yoruba and Ewe, \"[T]he belief that the dead come back into life and are reborn into their families is given concrete expression in the personal names that are given to children...What is reincarnated are some of the dominant characteristics of the ancestor and not his soul. For each soul remains distinct and each birth represents a new soul.\" The Yoruba, Dogon and LoDagoa have eschatological ideas similar to Abrahamic religions, \"but in most African societies, there is a marked absence of such clear-cut notions of heaven and hell, although there are notions of God judging the soul after death.\" In some societies like the Mende, multiple beliefs coexist. The Mende believe that people die twice: once during the process of joining the secret society, and again during biological death after which they become ancestors. However, some Mende also believe that after people are created by God they live ten consecutive lives, each in progressively descending worlds. One cross-cultural theme is that the ancestors are part of the world of the living, interacting with it regularly.\n\nIt is common for families to participate in ceremonies for children at a shrine, yet have a Buddhist funeral at the time of death. In old Japanese legends, it is often claimed that the dead go to a place called \"yomi\" (黄泉), a gloomy underground realm with a river separating the living from the dead mentioned in the legend of Izanami and Izanagi. This \"yomi\" very closely resembles the Greek Hades; however, later myths include notions of resurrection and even Elysium-like descriptions such as in the legend of Okuninushi and Susanoo. Shinto tends to hold negative views on death and corpses as a source of pollution called \"kegare\". However, death is also viewed as a path towards apotheosis in Shintoism as can be evidenced by how legendary individuals become enshrined after death. Perhaps the most famous would be Emperor Ojin who was enshrined as Hachiman the God of War after his death.\n\nSome Unitarian Universalists believe in universalism: that all souls will ultimately be saved and that there are no torments of hell. Unitarian Universalists differ widely in their theology hence there is no exact same stance on the issue. Although Unitarians historically believed in a literal hell, and Universalists historically believed that everyone goes to heaven, modern Unitarian Universalists can be categorized into those believing in a heaven, reincarnation and oblivion. Most Unitarian Universalists believe that heaven and hell are symbolic places of consciousness and the faith is largely focused on the worldly life rather than any possible afterlife.\n\nAccording to Edgar Cayce, the afterlife consisted of nine realms equated with the nine planets of astrology. The first, symbolized by Saturn, was a level for the purification of the souls. The second, Mercury's realm, gives us the ability to consider problems as a whole. The third of the nine soul realms is ruled by Earth and is associated with the Earthly pleasures. The fourth realm is where we find out about love and is ruled by Venus. The fifth realm is where we meet our limitations and is ruled by Mars. The sixth realm is ruled by Neptune, and is where we begin to use our creative powers and free ourselves from the material world. The seventh realm is symbolized by Jupiter, which strengthens the soul's ability to depict situations, to analyze people and places, things, and conditions. The eighth afterlife realm is ruled by Uranus and develops psychic ability. The ninth afterlife realm is symbolized by Pluto, the astrological realm of the unconscious. This afterlife realm is a transient place where souls can choose to travel to other realms or other solar systems, it is the souls liberation into eternity, and is the realm that opens the doorway from our solar system into the cosmos.\n\nMainstream Spiritualists postulate a series of seven realms that are not unlike Edgar Cayce's nine realms ruled by the planets. As it evolves, the soul moves higher and higher until it reaches the ultimate realm of spiritual oneness. The first realm, equated with hell, is the place where troubled souls spend a long time before they are compelled to move up to the next level. The second realm, where most souls move directly, is thought of as an intermediate transition between the lower planes of life and hell and the higher perfect realms of the universe. The third level is for those who have worked with their karmic inheritance. The fourth level is that from which evolved souls teach and direct those on Earth. The fifth level is where the soul leaves human consciousness behind. At the sixth plane, the soul is finally aligned with the cosmic consciousness and has no sense of separateness or individuality. Finally, the seventh level, the goal of each soul, is where the soul transcends its own sense of \"soulfulness\" and reunites with the World Soul and the universe.\n\nThe Wiccan afterlife is most commonly described as The Summerland. Here, souls rest, recuperate from life, and reflect on the experiences they had during their lives. After a period of rest, the souls are reincarnated, and the memory of their previous lives is erased. Many Wiccans see The Summerland as a place to reflect on their life actions. It is not a place of reward, but rather the end of a life journey at an end point of incarnations.\n\nZoroastrianism states that the \"urvan\", the disembodied spirit, lingers on earth for three days before departing downward to the kingdom of the dead that is ruled by Yima. For the three days that it rests on Earth, righteous souls sit at the head of their body, chanting the Ustavaiti Gathas with joy, while a wicked person sits at the feet of the corpse, wails and recites the Yasna. Zoroastrianism states that for the righteous souls, a beautiful maiden, which is the personification of the soul's good thoughts, words and deeds, appears. For a wicked person, a very old, ugly, naked hag appears. After three nights, the soul of the wicked is taken by the demon Vizaresa (Vīzarəša), to Chinvat bridge, and is made to go to darkness (hell).\n\nYima is believed to have been the first king on earth to rule, as well as the first man to die. Inside of Yima's realm, the spirits live a shadowy existence, and are dependent on their own descendants which are still living on Earth. Their descendants are to satisfy their hunger and clothe them, through rituals done on earth.\n\nRituals which are done on the first three days are vital and important, as they protect the soul from evil powers and give it strength to reach the underworld. After three days, the soul crosses Chinvat bridge which is the Final Judgment of the soul. Rashnu and Sraosha are present at the final judgment. The list is expanded sometimes, and include Vahman and Ormazd. Rashnu is the yazata who holds the scales of justice. If the good deeds of the person outweigh the bad, the soul is worthy of paradise. If the bad deeds outweigh the good, the bridge narrows down to the width of a blade-edge, and a horrid hag pulls the soul in her arms, and takes it down to hell with her.\n\nMisvan Gatu is the \"place of the mixed ones\" where the souls lead a gray existence, lacking both joy and sorrow. A soul goes here if his/her good deeds and bad deeds are equal, and Rashnu's scale is equal.\n\nThe Society for Psychical Research was founded in 1882 with the express intention of investigating phenomena relating to Spiritualism and the afterlife. Its members continue to conduct scientific research on the paranormal to this day. Some of the earliest attempts to apply scientific methods to the study of phenomena relating to an afterlife were conducted by this organization. Its earliest members included noted scientists like William Crookes, and philosophers such as Henry Sidgwick and William James.\n\nParapsychological investigation of the afterlife includes the study of haunting, apparitions of the deceased, instrumental trans-communication, electronic voice phenomena, and mediumship. But also the study of the near death experience. Scientists who have worked in this area include Raymond Moody, Susan Blackmore, Charles Tart, William James, Ian Stevenson, Michael Persinger, Pim van Lommel and Penny Sartori among others.\n\nA study conducted in 1901 by physician Duncan MacDougall sought to measure the weight lost by a human when the soul \"departed the body\" upon death. MacDougall weighed dying patients in an attempt to prove that the soul was material, tangible and thus measurable. Although MacDougall's results varied considerably from \"21 grams\", for some people this figure has become synonymous with the measure of a soul's mass. The title of the 2003 movie \"21 Grams\" is a reference to MacDougall's findings. His results have never been reproduced, and are generally regarded either as meaningless or considered to have had little if any scientific merit.\n\nFrank Tipler has argued that physics can explain immortality, though such arguments are not falsifiable and thus do not qualify, in Karl Popper's views, as science.\n\nAfter 25 years of parapsychological research, Susan Blackmore came to the conclusion that there is no empirical evidence for an afterlife.\n\nThere is still the position, based on the philosophical question of personal identity, termed open individualism, and in some ways similar to the old belief of monopsychism, that concludes that individual existence is illusory, and our consciousness continues existing after death in other conscious beings. Positions regarding existence after death were supported by some notable physicists such as Erwin Schrödinger and Freeman Dyson.\n\nCertain problems arise with the idea of a particular person continuing after death. Peter van Inwagen, in his argument regarding resurrection, notes that the materialist must have some sort of physical continuity. John Hick also raises some questions regarding personal identity in his book, \"Death and Eternal Life\" using an example of a person ceasing to exist in one place while an exact replica appears in another. If the replica had all the same experiences, traits, and physical appearances of the first person, we would all attribute the same identity to the second, according to Hick.\n\nIn the panentheistic model of process philosophy and theology the writers Alfred North Whitehead and Charles Hartshorne rejected that the universe was made of substance, instead reality is composed of living experiences (occasions of experience). According to Hartshorne people do not experience subjective (or personal) immortality in the afterlife, but they do have objective immortality because their experiences live on forever in God, who contains all that was. However other process philosophers such as David Ray Griffin have written that people may have subjective experience after death.\n\nRegarding the mind–body problem, most neuroscientists take a physicalist position according to which consciousness derives from and/or is reducible to physical phenomena such as neuronal activity occurring in the brain. The implication of this premise is that once the brain stops functioning at brain death, consciousness fails to survive and ceases to exist.\n\nPsychological proposals for the origin of a belief in an afterlife include cognitive disposition, cultural learning, and as an intuitive religious idea. In one study, children were able to recognize the ending of physical, mental, and perceptual activity in death, but were hesitant to conclude the ending of will, self, or emotion in death.\n\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "28589835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28589835", "title": "Amateur dramatics in Glasgow", "text": "Amateur dramatics in Glasgow\n\nGlasgow, the largest city in Scotland, supports a large number of active amateur dramatics and musical theatre companies. Some of the larger companies use the professional stages at the King's Theatre, Theatre Royal and The Pavilion, and in the past the Alhambra Theatre. The Mitchell Theatre, run by Glasgow City Council, is one of the most popularly used theatres for amateur companies, as is the Eastwood Park Theatre operated in the south side.\n\n"}
{"id": "8306521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8306521", "title": "Anne Carlisle", "text": "Anne Carlisle\n\nAnne Carlisle (born 1956) is an American actress, performance artist, acting teacher, author, and model.\n\nShe is known for co-writing and playing both the lead female and male counterpart roles in the film \"Liquid Sky\". She also played a minor role of \"Victoria\" in the 1985 Susan Seidelman film \"Desperately Seeking Susan\", the transvestite \"Gwendoline\" in \"Crocodile Dundee\" and starred in an episode of TV series \"Miami Vice\". Carlisle also adapted and wrote a novel version of her cult, new wave film \"Liquid Sky\".\n\nCarlisle posed for \"Playboy\" in 1984.\n\nIn 2014 in an interview with \"The Awl\" it was confirmed by \"Liquid Sky\" director Slava Tsukerman, a sequel, \"Liquid Sky 2\", was in the works. Anne Carlisle would be returning in the sequel in the role of Margaret.\n\n"}
{"id": "11986133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11986133", "title": "Begums Thugs and White Mughals", "text": "Begums Thugs and White Mughals\n\nBegums Thugs and White Mughals: The Journals of Fanny Parkes is a 2002 historical travel book based on the journals of Fanny Parkes and edited by William Dalrymple.\n\nDalrymple's work on this book followed his earlier book \"White Mughals\".\n\nThis is an edited edition of the travel journals of the traveller Fanny Parkes who was in India from 1822 to 1846. Dalrymple previously edited another book by Parkes, \"Wanderings of a Pilgrim in Search of the Picturesque\".\n\nHe wrote the introduction in which he challenged some of the preconceptions of academic studies of travel writing, which attempt to fit all English views on India into the 'Orientalist' template laid down by Edward Said.\n\n\"Fanny was a passionate lover of India and, though a woman of her time, in her writing and her travels did her best to understand and build bridges across the colonial divide,\" he writes \"[A]s Colin Thubron has pointed out, ‘To define the genre [of travel writing] as an act of domination – rather than of understanding, respect or even catharsis – is simplistic.\n\nIf even the attempt to understand is seen as aggression or appropriation, then all human contact declines into paranoia.’ The attacks made on Fanny highlight the problem with so much that has been written about 18th- and early 19th-century India: the temptation felt by so many critics to project back onto it the stereotypes of Victorian and Edwardian behaviour and attitudes with which we are so familiar.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "35488272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35488272", "title": "Calendarium Naturale Magicum Perpetuum", "text": "Calendarium Naturale Magicum Perpetuum\n\nThe Calendarium Naturale Magicum Perpetuum is a late renaissance (c.1619-1620) grimoire and esoteric print of calendar engravings. Its full title is \"Magnum Grimorium sive Calendarium Naturale Magicum Perpetuum Profundissimam Rerum Secretissimarum Contemplationem Totiusque Philosophiae Cognitionem Complectens\". It is in three sheets, measuring more than four feet long and about two feet wide, and includes an early example of a Pentagrammaton.\n\nThe \"author\" in the 1619 (or 1620) Frankfurt print is given as Johann Baptist Grossschedel von Aicha (Frankfurt 1620), and attributes some of the engravings to Tycho Brahe. The original engraver is given as Theodor de Bry (Flemish-born German engraver, 1528–98) as originally published in 1582. The 1620 engraver used by Grossschedel may be Matthäus Merian the Elder (Swiss engraver, 1593–1650). The work predated, and influenced, the Rosicrucian furor.\n"}
{"id": "3610259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3610259", "title": "Chip art", "text": "Chip art\n\nChip art, also known as silicon art, chip graffiti or silicon doodling, refers to microscopic artwork built into integrated circuits, also called chips or ICs. Since ICs are printed by photolithography, not constructed a component at a time, there is no additional cost to include features in otherwise unused space on the chip. Designers have used this freedom to put all sorts of artwork on the chips themselves, from designers' simple initials to rather complex drawings. Given the small size of chips, these figures cannot be seen without a microscope. Chip graffiti is sometimes called the hardware version of software easter eggs.\n\nPrior to 1984, these doodles also served a practical purpose. If a competitor produced a similar chip, and examination showed it contained the same doodles, then this was strong evidence that the design was copied (a copyright violation) and not independently derived. A 1984 revision of the US copyright law (the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984) made all chip masks automatically copyrighted, with exclusive rights to the creator, and similar rules apply in most other countries that manufacture ICs. Since an exact copy is now automatically a copyright violation, the doodles serve no useful purpose.\n\nIntegrated Circuits are constructed from multiple layers of material, typically silicon, silicon dioxide (glass), and aluminum. The composition and thickness of these layers give them their distinctive color and appearance. These elements created an irresistible palette for IC design and layout engineers. \n\nThe creative process involved in the design of these chips, a strong sense of pride in their work, and an artistic temperament combined compels people to want to mark their work as their own. It is very common to find initials, or groups of initials on chips. This is the design engineer's way of \"signing\" his or her work.\n\nOften this creative artist's instinct extends to the inclusion of small pictures or icons. These may be images of significance to the designers, comments related to the chip's function, inside jokes, or even satirical references. Because of the difficulty in verifying their existence, chip art has also been the subject of online hoaxes (e.g. the never-seen \"bill sux\" comment on a Pentium chip—the reputed \"photo\" showing the inscription is a hoax).\n\nThe mass production of these works of art as parasites on the body of a commercial IC goes unnoticed by most observers and is discouraged by semiconductor corporations, primarily from the fear that the presence of the artwork (which is clearly unneeded) will interfere with some necessary function in the chip or design flow.\n\nSome laboratories have started collaborating with artists or directly producing books and exhibits with the micrographs of these chips. Such is the case of Harvard chemist George Whitesides, who collaborated with pioneer photographer Felice Frankel to publish \"On the Surface of Things\", a highly praised photography book on experiments from (mostly) the Whitesides lab. Also, the laboratory of Albert Folch (who, perhaps not coincidentally, works in BioMEMS, the same field as George Whitesides) at the University of Washington's Bioengineering Dept. has a highly popular online gallery with more than 1,700 free BioMEMS-related chip art micrographs and has already produced three art exhibits in the Seattle area, with online sales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58076574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58076574", "title": "Democratic Party (Cuba)", "text": "Democratic Party (Cuba)\n\nThe Democratic Party (Spanish: Partido Demócrata) was an political party in Cuba. They won 21 out of 57 seats in the Cuban parliamentary election 1942.\n"}
{"id": "3740760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3740760", "title": "Descriptivist theory of names", "text": "Descriptivist theory of names\n\nIn the philosophy of language, the descriptivist theory of proper names (also descriptivist theory of reference) is the view that the meaning or semantic content of a proper name is identical to the descriptions associated with it by speakers, while their referents are determined to be the objects that satisfy these descriptions. Bertrand Russell and Gottlob Frege have both been associated with the descriptivist theory, which is sometimes called the Frege–Russell view.\n\nIn the 1970s, this theory came under attack from causal theorists such as Saul Kripke, Hilary Putnam and others. However, it has seen something of a revival in recent years, especially under the form of what are called two-dimensional semantic theories. This latter trend is exemplified by the theories of David Chalmers, among others.\n\nA simple descriptivist theory of names can be thought of as follows: for every proper name \"p\", there is some collection of descriptions \"D\" associated with \"p\" that constitute the meaning of \"p\". For example, the descriptivist may hold that the proper name \"Saul Kripke\" is synonymous with the collection of descriptions such as \nThe descriptivist takes the meaning of the name \"Saul Kripke\" to be that collection of descriptions and takes the referent of the name to be the thing that satisfies all or most of those descriptions.\n\nA simple descriptivist theory may further hold that the meaning of a sentence \"S\" that contains \"p\" is given by the collection of sentences produced by replacing each instance of \"p\" in \"S\" with one of the descriptions in \"D\". So, the sentence such as \"Saul Kripke stands next to a table\" has the same meaning as the following collection of sentences:\n\nA version of descriptivism was formulated by Frege in reaction to problems with his original theory of meaning or reference (\"Bedeutung\"), which entailed that sentences with empty proper names cannot have a meaning. Yet a sentence containing the name 'Odysseus' is intelligible, and therefore has a sense, even though there is no individual object (its reference) to which the name corresponds. Also, the sense of different names is different, even when their reference is the same. Frege said that if an identity statement such as \"Hesperus is the same planet as Phosphorus\" is to be informative, the proper names flanking the identity sign must have a different meaning or sense. But clearly, if the statement is true, they must have the same reference. The sense is a 'mode of presentation', which serves to illuminate only a single aspect of the referent. Scholars disagree as to whether Frege intended such modes of presentation to be descriptions. See the article Sense and reference.\n\nRussell’s approach is somewhat different. First of all, Russell makes an important distinction between what he calls “ordinary” proper names and “logically” proper names. Logically proper names are indexicals such as \"this\" and \"that\", which directly refer (in a Millian sense) to sense-data or other objects of immediate acquaintance. For Russell, ordinary proper names are \"abbreviated definite descriptions.\" Here definite description refers again to the type of formulation “The…” which was used above to describe Santa Claus as “the benevolent, bearded….’’ According to Russell, the name “Aristotle” is just a sort of shorthand for a definite description such as “The last great philosopher of ancient Greece” or “The teacher of Alexander the great” or some conjunction of two or more such descriptions. Now, according to Russell’s theory of definite descriptions, such descriptions must, in turn, be reduced, to a certain very specific logical form of existential generalization as follows:\n\nbecomes\n\nThis says that there is exactly one object ‘’x’’ such that ‘’x’’ is King of France and ‘’x’’ is bald. Notice that this formulation is entirely general: it says that there is some x out in the world that satisfies the description, but does not specify which one thing ‘’x’’ refers to. Indeed, for Russell, definite descriptions (and hence names) have no reference at all and their meanings (senses in the Fregean sense) are just the truth conditions of the logical forms illustrated above. This is made clearer by Russell’s example involving ‘’Bismarck’’:\n\n\nIn this case, Russell suggests that only Bismarck himself can be in a relation of acquaintance such that the man himself enters into the proposition expressed by the sentence. For any other than Bismarck, the only relation that is possible with such a proposition is through its descriptions. Bismarck could never have existed and the sentence (G) would still be meaningful because of its general nature described by the logical form underlying the sentence.\n\nNotwithstanding these differences however, descriptivism and the descriptive theory of proper names came to be associated with both the views of Frege and Russell and both address the general problems (names without bearers, Frege’s puzzles concerning identity and substitution in contexts of intentional attitude attributions) in a similar manner.\n\nAnother problem for Millianism is Frege’s famous puzzles concerning the identity of co-referring terms. For example:\n\n\nIn this case, both terms (“Hesperus” and “Phosphorus”) refer to the same entity: Venus. The Millian theory would predict that this sentence is trivial, since meaning is just reference and “Venus is Venus” is not very informative. Suppose, however, that someone did not know that Hesperus and Phosphorus both referred to Venus. Then it is at least arguable that the sentence (V) is an attempt to inform someone of just this fact.\n\nAnother problem for Millianism is that of statements such as “Fred believes that Cicero, but not Tully, was Roman.”\n\nIn his book \"Naming and Necessity\", Saul Kripke criticised the descriptivist theory. At the end of Lecture I (pp. 64–70) Kripke sets out what he believes to be the tenets of the descriptivist theory. Kripke formally states a number of theses as the core of the descriptivist theory, with these theses explaining the theory in terms of reference (rather than the sense or meaning). As he explains before stating the theory, \"There are more theses if you take it in the stronger version as a theory of meaning\" (p. 64).\n\nAs he states it, the descriptivist theory is \"weaker,\" i.e., the claims it makes do not assert as much as a stronger theory would. This actually makes it harder to refute. The descriptivist theory of meaning would include these theses and definitions however, thus refuting these would suffice for refuting the descriptivist theory of meaning as well. Kripke formulates them as follows:\n\n\n(1) States the properties or concepts related to any given proper name, where a name 'X' has a set of properties associated with it. The set of properties are those that a speaker, on inquiry of \"Who is Barack Obama?\" would respond \"The President of the U.S., former Senator of Illinois, husband of Michelle Obama, etc.\" (1) does not stipulate that the set of properties φ is the meaning of X. (2) stipulates the epistemic position of the speaker. Note (2) says \"believed by A to pick out\".\n\n(3) Takes the properties in (1) and (2) and turns them into a mechanism of reference. Basically, if a unique object satisfies the properties associated with 'X' such that A believes that 'X has such-and-such properties', it picks out or refers to that object. (4) states what happens when no object satisfies the properties (Kripke talks in terms of taking a \"vote\" as to the unique referent).\n\n(5) Follows from (1)-(3). If there is a set of properties that speaker A believes to be associated with X, then these properties must be already known by the speaker. In this sense they are a priori. To know what a bachelor is, an individual must know what an unmarried male is; likewise an individual must know who is 'The President of the U.S., former Senator of Illinois, husband of Michelle Obama, etc.' to know who Obama is.\n(6) However is not a direct product of the theses. Kripke notes \"(6) need not be a thesis of the theory if someone doesn't think that the cluster is part of the meaning of the name\" (p. 65). However, when the descriptivist theory is taken as a theory of reference and meaning, (6) would be a thesis.\n\nTaken as a theory of reference, the following would be true:\n\nThe idea in the second sentence is that one can't refer to something without knowing what he or she is referring to. \nTaken as a theory of reference and meaning, the following would be true:\n\n\nAfter breaking down the descriptivist theory, he begins to point out what's wrong with it. First, he offered up what has come to be known as “the modal argument” (or argument from rigidity) against descriptivism. Consider the name ‘’Aristotle’’ and the descriptions “the greatest student of Plato’’, “the founder of logic” and “the teacher of Alexander.” Aristotle obviously satisfies all of the descriptions (and many of the others we commonly associate with him), but it is not a necessary truth that if Aristotle existed then Aristotle was any one, or all, of these descriptions, contrary to thesis (6). Aristotle might well have existed without doing any single one of the things he is known for. He might have existed and not have become known to posterity at all or he might have died in infancy.\n\nSuppose that Aristotle is associated by Mary with the description\n“the last great philosopher of antiquity” and (the actual) Aristotle died in infancy. Then Mary’s description would seem to refer to Plato. But this is deeply counterintuitive. Hence, names are ‘’rigid designators’’, according to Kripke. That is, they refer to the same individual in every possible world in which that individual exists.\n\nThis is the counterintuitive result of thesis (6). For descriptivists Aristotle means “the greatest student of Plato’’, “the founder of logic” and “the teacher of Alexander.” So the sentence “the greatest student of Plato, etc., was the greatest student of Plato,” is equivalent to “Aristotle was the greatest student of Plato, etc.” Of course a sentence like “x=x” is necessary, but this just isn't the case with proper names and their descriptions. Aristotle could have done something else, thus he is not necessarily identical to his description.\n\nThe second argument employed by Kripke has come to be called the ‘’epistemic argument” or “the argument from unwanted necessity.” This is simply the observation that if the meaning of ‘’Angela Merkel’’ is “the Chancellor of Germany”, then “Angela is the Chancellor of Germany” should seem to the average person to be a priori, analytic, and trivial, as if falling out of the meaning of “Angela Merkel” just as “unmarried male” falls out of the meaning of “bachelor.” If thesis (5) is to hold, the properties of Angela Merkel should be known a priori by the speaker. But this is not true. We had to go out into the world to see who the Chancellor of Germany is.\n\nKripke’s third argument against descriptive theories consisted in pointing out that people may associate inadequate or inaccurate descriptions with proper names. Kripke uses Kurt Gödel as an example. The only thing most people know about Gödel is that he proved the incompleteness of arithmetic. Suppose he hadn't proved it, and really he stole it from his friend Schmidt. Thesis (3) says that if most of the properties associated with 'Gödel' are satisfied by one unique object, in this case Schmidt, then Schmidt is the referent of 'Gödel.' This means that every time someone (in the world where Gödel stole the incompleteness theorem from Schmidt) says 'Gödel' he or she is actually referring to Schmidt. This is far too counter-intuitive for the descriptivist theory to hold.\n\nSuch arguments seem to have convinced the majority of philosophers of language to abandon descriptive theories of proper names.\n\nIn recent years, there has been something of a revival in descriptivist theories, including descriptivist theories of proper names. Metalinguistic description theories have been developed and adopted by such contemporary theorists as Kent Bach and Jerrold Katz. According to Katz, “metalinguistic description theories explicate the sense of proper nouns - but not common nouns - in terms of a relation between the noun and the objects that bear its name.” Differently from the traditional theory, such theories do not posit a need for sense to determine reference and the metalinguistic description mentions the name it is the sense of (hence it is \"metalinguistic\") while placing no conditions on being the bearer of a name. Katz's theory, to take this example, is based on the fundamental idea that sense should not have to be defined in terms of, nor determine, referential or extensional properties but that it should be defined in terms of, and determined by, all and only the intensional properties of names.\n\nHe illustrates the way a metalinguistic description theory can be successful against Kripkean counterexamples by citing, as one example, the case of ‘’Jonah’’. Kripke’s Jonah case is very powerful because in this case the only information that we have about the Biblical character Jonah is just what the Bible tells us. Unless we are fundamentalist literalists, it is not controversial that all of this is false. Since, under traditional descriptivism, these descriptions are what define the name Jonah; these descriptivists must say that Jonah did not exist. But this does not follow. But under Katz's version of descriptivism, the sense of Jonah contains no information derived from the Biblical accounts but contains only the term \"Jonah\" itself in the phrase \"the thing that is a bearer of 'Jonah'.\" Hence, it is not vulnerable to these kinds of counterexamples.\n\nThe most common and challenging criticism to metalinguistic description theories was put forth by Kripke himself: they seem to be an ad hoc explanation of a single linguistic phenomenon. Why should there be a metalinguistic theory for proper nouns (like names) but not for common nouns, count nouns, verbs, predicates, indexicals and other parts of speech.\n\nAnother recent approach is \"two-dimensional semantics.\" The motivations for this approach are rather different from those that inspired other forms of descriptivism, however. Two–dimensional approaches are usually motivated by a sense of dissatisfaction with the causal theorist explanation of how it is that a single proposition can be both necessary and \"a posteriori\" or contingent and \"a priori\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2719363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2719363", "title": "Dotto", "text": "Dotto\n\nDotto is an American television game show that was a combination of a general knowledge quiz and the children's game connect the dots. Jack Narz served as the program's host, with Colgate-Palmolive as its presenting sponsor. \"Dotto\" rose to become the highest rated daytime program in television history, as of 1958.\n\n\"Dotto\" replaced \"Strike it Rich\" in CBS's 11:30 am daytime time slot on January 6, 1958. In a rare instance of two networks programming the same show, a weekly nighttime edition was launched on July 1, 1958 on CBS's competitor NBC on Tuesday nights in their 9:00p.m. slot. At the height of both shows' popularity, \"Dotto\" was abruptly cancelled without public explanation over the weekend of August 16, 1958. Soon after, Dotto was publicly revealed to have been fixed by its producer, tarnishing the show's reputation and setting the stage for legal and political investigation of the fixing of 1950s quiz shows.\n\nTwo contestants, one a returning champion, competed in each game.\n\nThe object of the game was to identify the subject of an incomplete portrait drawing, which was accomplished by answering questions and connecting dots. The champion and the challenger were both given their own version of the portrait, which contained fifty dots for each contestant to connect. The contestants were positioned on stage in a manner where neither one could see the other or their progress. There was also an overhead projector on stage that was called the \"Dottograph\", which would come into play as the game progressed.\nPlay in each game started with the challenger and he/she was given a category along with a choice of three questions, each with a corresponding number of dots to connect. The questions were worth five, eight, or ten dots and more dots meant a higher difficulty. Answering correctly enabled the challenger to have his/her dots connected, but a wrong answer or failure to answer gave that privilege to the champion. \n\nTo further assist the contestants in identifying the subjects of the portrait, three clues were provided. These were unlocked once a contestant reached a certain number of connections. The first required a total of twenty-five connections, the second thirty-five, and the last forty-five.\n\nAt any point in the game, including during the opposing player's turn, a contestant could signal that he/she knew the answer by pressing a button. Narz would then direct that contestant to walk to the Dottograph, which the opposing player could not see, and write that answer on the projecto screen.\n\nAfter the answer was recorded, Narz would reveal if the contestant had answered correctly. If he/she did, the opponent was given one last chance to force a tie and play on by correctly identifying the subject based on his/her own progress during the game; if he/she could not do so the first contestant won the game. If the first contestant was incorrect, the opponent automatically won the game. \n\nThe winning player won money for each unconnected dot left on his/her picture, and the amount increased for each tie up to two. On the daytime series, the payout was $10 per dot and it doubled for each tie up to a maximum of $40. On the nighttime series, the payout was $100 per dot and increased by that amount for each tie, resulting in a maximum of $300 per dot.\n\nAfter a game was completed, usually during the middle of each episode, a \"Home Viewer Dotto\" game was played, in which a person selected by postcard drawing was called by telephone live on the air for a chance to guess the person being drawn. If correct, the home viewer won a new car or other valuable prizes, and if incorrect, the viewer received a consolation prize (the daytime version gave away a supply of products advertised by the show's sponsor, Colgate-Palmolive, while the nighttime version gave away a trip). At the end of each episode, additional dots were connected and a clue was displayed for the next episode's \"Home Viewer Dotto\" game.\n\n\"Dotto\" debuted on January 6, 1958 at 11:30a.m., replacing the long-running (and controversial) Warren Hull game \"Strike It Rich\". Facing Bob Barker's \"Truth or Consequences\" on NBC and local programming on ABC (who had not programmed at 11:30 in three years), within six months \"Dotto\" became the highest-rated quiz program of the year, and Narz achieved a popularity equal to that of Hal March on \"The $64,000 Question\".\n\nThe show became so popular that on July 1 a weekly nighttime version began on NBC with the same format. On NBC's July 29 episode, a contestant on the show, actress and model Connie Hines had a telegram read on air with Columbia Pictures stating interest in her as an actress. Hines later became famous as Carol Post on the popular comedy \"Mister Ed\".\n\n\"Dotto\"'s downfall began with a backstage discovery in May 1958. A notebook belonging to contestant (and later journalist) Marie Winn was found by stand-by contestant, Edward Hilgemeier Jr., who realized that the notebook included questions and answers to be used during Winn's appearances, one of which was against a woman named Yaffe Kimball. He tore out the relevant pages of the notebook for himself. Hilgemeier then told Kimball after her onstage loss that her competitor had been given answers in advance. Hilgemeier later reported that \"Dotto's\" producers paid him $1,500 to keep quiet about his discovery, and Kimball, as the loser of a fixed match, $4,000. \"Dotto\" on CBS, meanwhile, grew in popularity as 1958 went on and became the highest rated Daytime show on the air.\n\nHilgemeier Jr. eventually decided to break his silence. He contacted the Colgate-Palmolive company on approximately August 8, 1958 with his story, which was then relayed to CBS. Executives at CBS and the show's sponsor quickly moved to confirm the allegation internally and worked the issue between August 11 and 16. CBS executive vice president Thomas Fisher tested kinescopes of the show against Winn's notebook and concluded that the show looked fixed. Executives at CBS series met with its creator, Frank Cooper, concerning the potential rigging of the show on the evening of Friday, August 15. Cooper admitted that the show was indeed fixed, and CBS then reported these findings to NBC as the hosts of the nighttime version. Over the weekend of August 16, both the CBS daytime and NBC primetime series were cancelled. In the meantime, in an August 18 affidavit, Hilgemeier complained to the Federal Communications Commission (as he did to Colgate-Palmolive) that \"Dotto\" was fixed. In interviews, host Jack Narz stated that he was not notified of \"Dotto's\" cancellation until some point after the final episodes had been recorded. Narz was later subpoenaed and took a polygraph test, the results indicating that he was not connected to the fraud.\n\nCBS immediately moved its game show \"Top Dollar\", hosted by Warren Hull, to \"Dotto\"'s 11:30a.m. time slot on Monday, August 18. A live studio audience expecting to be seated for Monday's episode of \"Dotto\" was instead set up as an audience for \"Top Dollar\". Viewers were greeted by the opening, “Dotto, the program which normally airs at this time, will no longer be seen. Instead...welcome to \"Top Dollar\"!” The final NBC nighttime weekly episode aired on August 12, 1958; the next week its Tuesday time slot was replaced with \"a filmed drama series\". Dotto's cancellation on both CBS and NBC was quickly established as fact on August 18, but the reason for why it was cancelled took days to be confirmed by the media.\n\nAlthough it was not the first show to be involved in some wrongdoing, \"Dotto\" was the first game show to have such wrongdoing verified. A year earlier, \"Twenty-One\" contestant Herb Stempel told the \"New York Journal-American\" that his run as champion on the series had been choreographed and that he had been ordered to purposely lose his championship to Charles Van Doren. Stempel's statements gained more credibility once the match fixing at \"Dotto\" was publicized, and investigations (in the form of a grand jury, and later, congressional hearings) followed.\n\nJack Narz eventually replaced Warren Hull as host of \"Top Dollar\" by November 1958. That series ran in daytime until October 23, 1959. Narz continued to work as a game show host for most of the next twenty years after \"Top Dollar\" ended.\n\nFrank Cooper would never do another game show after \"Dotto,\" which was his longest-running game and his only one for CBS. His previous gaming efforts did not fare as well – his first game, an NBC show called \"Guess What Happened?\" (dropping the \"Guess\" after the first show), bombed after three episodes in 1952. \"Droodles,\" starring Roger Price, ran for three months in 1954 while ABC's \"Keep It in the Family\" ran for four months from 1957-1958.\n\nConnie Hines was revealed to have been coached for her \"Dotto\" appearance, but unlike Marie Winn, she was not given questions and answers in advance. She enjoyed a five-year run as Carol Post on \"Mister Ed\" and, after a few subsequent television guest roles, retired from acting entirely.\n\nMarie Winn eventually became a journalist whose books include \"The Plug-In Drug\", a scathing critique on television's influence over children. The book became somewhat controversial for its author having been circumspect about her role in one of the medium's greatest scandals.\n\nIt was only in 2013 that RTBF revived the game in digitized form.\n\nIn 2014, it was announced that a revival of \"Dotto\" for French Television is in the works (entitled \"Fizzio\").\n\n\"Dotto\" was also hugely successful in the United Kingdom, where it ran on ITV from September 13, 1958 to June 23, 1960. This version was first hosted by Robert Gladwell, followed by Jimmy Hanley and then Shaw Taylor.\n\nAlthough the series was presumably intact in 1958 (see above), the series is believed to have been destroyed sometime afterward as per network practices (and possibly by Colgate's insistence).\n\nTwo episodes are known to exist – a daytime episode from May 20 featuring Marie Winn's victory over Yaffe Kimball-Slatin (which was subject to the rigging controversy, see above), and the third-to-last nighttime episode from July 29 featuring Connie Hines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5788620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5788620", "title": "Droit de suite", "text": "Droit de suite\n\nDroit de suite (French for \"right to follow\") is a right granted to artists or their heirs, in some jurisdictions, to receive a fee on the resale of their works of art. This should be contrasted with policies such as the American first-sale doctrine, where artists do not have the right to control or profit from subsequent sales.\n\nThe \"droit de suite\" was first proposed in Europe around 1893, in response to a decrease in the importance of the salon, the end of the private patron, and to champion the cause of the “starving artist.” Many artists, and their families, had suffered from the war, and \"droit de suite\" was a means to remedy socially difficult situations.\n\nAccording to Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres, \"droit de suite\" was created in France following the sale of Millet's 1858 painting, the \"Angélus\", in 1889 at the Secretan sale. The owner of the painting made a huge profit from this sale, whereas the family of the artist lived in poverty.\n\nThe 2001/84/EC directive mandates a somewhat uniform system of \"droit de suite\" across the European Union. This directive is controversial in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn France, this system is in force through article L122-8 of the Code of intellectual property. It will be reformed by article 48 of the DADVSI law, which implements directive 2001/84/EC. During discussions in the French Parliament leading to this law, it was argued that in practice, the \"droit de suite\" is only paid at auctions, and that it thus disfavors the Paris art marketplace compared to London or New York City. Following DADVSI, a government regulation (through a decree) is to set degressive rates and maximal fees so that the Paris marketplace is not hindered.\n\nThe California Resale Royalty Act, (Civil Code section 986), was struck down as unconstitutional on May 17, 2012 because it violated the US Constitution Interstate Commerce clause, ending a 35-year run that entitled artists to a royalty payment upon the resale of their works of art under certain circumstances. The ruling by Judge Jacqueline H. Nguyen of U.S. District Court Judge, Central District of California, is pending appeal in the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. Judge Nguyen added: The Court finds that the CRRA explicitly regulates applicable sales of fine art \"occurring wholly outside California\" [emphasis added]. Under its clear terms, the CRRA regulates transactions occurring anywhere in the United States, so long as the seller resides in California. Even the artist---the intended beneficiary of the CRRA---does not have to be a citizen of, or reside in, California...Therefore, the CRRA violates the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution.\n\nCalifornia’s droit de suite statute, the California Resale Royalty Act, was enacted in 1976, and was struck down on May 17, 2012, pending appeal. The law applied to all works of fine art resold in California, or resold anywhere by a California resident, for a gross sale of $1000 or more. It had mandated a five percent royalty on the resale price of any work of fine art. An artist was able to waive this right “by a contract in writing providing for an amount in excess of five percent of the amount of such sale.”\n\nAt least one scholar has proposed that this law is unconstitutional in that it effects a Fifth Amendment taking of private property.\n\nIn September 2012, the U.S. Copyright Office published a \"Notice of Inquiry\" regarding establishing an artist \"resale royalty right\" in the US. The Notice was published in response to a request by Representative Jerrold Nadler and Senator Herb Kohl, who had introduced droit de suite legislation in 2011. The Copyright Office's subsequent report endorsed \"congressional consideration of a resale royalty right, or \"droit de suite\", which would give artists a percentage of the amount paid for a work each time it is resold by another party.\" A follow-up bill was introduced in 2014, the American Royalties Too Act, and was vigorously opposed by auction houses. The bill died in committee.\n\nAustralia\nThe Resale Royalty Right for Visual Artists Act 2009 gives the creator of an artwork the right to receive a royalty when their work is resold on the commercial art market. For artworks already in existence at 9 June 2010, the royalty applies only to the second and subsequent resales after that date. Under clauses 22 and 23 of the act artists have a case by case right to instruct the appointed government agency the Copyright Agency Ltd, to not collect and/or make their own individual collection arrangements.\n\nThe royalty is calculated as 5% of the sale price, but does not apply where that price is less than $1,000. It is payable, via an official collecting agency, \"or\" if the creator chooses (on a case by case basis) it can be paid directly to the creator, on resales made during their lifetime and to their heirs for resales made up to 70 years after the creator’s death. The primary legal obligation to pay the royalty rests on the seller. However, in economic terms, it may effectively be passed on to the purchaser.\n\nEligible artworks include original works of graphic or plastic art, including pictures, collages, paintings, drawings, engravings, prints, lithographs, sculptures, tapestries, ceramics, glassware, photographs, fine art textiles, installations, fine art jewellery, artists’ books, carvings and multi-media artworks.\n\nThe royalty is restricted to Australian citizens or residents, though there is provision for reciprocal rights to be extended in the future to persons resident in other jurisdictions with compatible royalty schemes.\n\nThe introduction of the scheme was controversial, as it has been elsewhere. During the first three years of its operation, royalty payments totaling $1.5m were made to about 650 artists for 6,800 transactions, with about 50% going to Indigenous artists. The highest individual royalty was A$50,000. Most recipients have received amounts ranging from A$50 to A$500. The average transaction cost is reportedly $30 AU.\n\nA review of the scheme was announced in June 2013.\n\nThe Intellectual Property Code of the Philippines (Republic Act 8293) gives the author/artist or his heirs a 5-percent share in the gross proceeds of the sale or lease of the original painting, sculpture, or manuscript, subsequent to its first disposition by the creator. This right exists during the lifetime of the author or artist and fifty years after his/her death.\n\n"}
{"id": "27775819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27775819", "title": "Ethnographic village", "text": "Ethnographic village\n\nAn ethnographic village is a real or artificial settlement which portrays complete historical and ethnographic characteristics of life of a certain ethnic group. The concept is close to that of an open-air museum or \"living museum.\"\n\nAs early as in 1550 a mock Brazilian village was built by Rouen, France, on an occasion of the entry of king Henry II of France. For this purpose, Brazilian flora and fauna were imported, and typical Amerindian dwellings were built. The village was populated by 50 original Tabajara and Tupinambá people as well as about 250 French dressed as \"natives\".\n\nSimilar \"Negro villages\" has become increasingly common in various places, becoming a staple feature of international exhibitions of late 19th-early 20th centuries, such as the 1889 Paris Exposition.\n\nSince these villages commonly emphacized the backwards, \"savage\" ways of life as compared to European civilization, the concept was criticized as a manifestation of racism.\n\nIn modern Lithuania, an ethnographic village () is defined as a rural settlement which maintains traditional, historical, ethnic cultural characteristics specific to the particular region. These characteristic include traditional architecture, farmstead planning, relation to the natural landscape, as well as traditional life, including farming traditions, arts and crafts. \n\n"}
{"id": "9896129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9896129", "title": "Eurodac", "text": "Eurodac\n\nEuropean Dactyloscopy (Eurodac) is the European Union (EU) fingerprint database for identifying asylum seekers and irregular border-crossers. Asylum applicants and irregular border-crossers over the age of 14 have their fingerprints taken as a matter of EU law. These are then sent in digitally to a central unit at the European Commission, and automatically checked against other prints on the database. This enables authorities to determine whether asylum seekers have already applied for asylum in another EU member state or have illegally transited through another EU member state (\"principle of first contact\"). The Automated Fingerprint Identification System is the first of its kind on the European Union level and has been operating since 15 January 2003. All EU member states currently participate in the scheme, plus three additional European countries: Norway, Iceland and Switzerland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2941715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2941715", "title": "Hex sign", "text": "Hex sign\n\nHex signs are a form of Pennsylvania Dutch folk art, related to fraktur, found in the Fancy Dutch tradition in Pennsylvania Dutch Country. Barn paintings, usually in the form of \"stars in circles\", began to appear on the landscape in the early 19th century, and became widespread decades later when commercial paint became readily available. By the 1950s commercialized hex signs, aimed at the tourist market, became popular and these often include stars, compass roses, stylized birds known as distelfinks, hearts, tulips, or a tree of life. Two schools of thought exist on the meaning of hex signs. One school ascribes a talismanic nature to the signs, the other sees them as purely decorative, or \"Chust for nice\" in the local dialect. Both schools recognize that there are sometimes superstitions associated with certain hex sign themes, and neither ascribes strong magical power to them. The Amish do not use hex signs.\n\nPainted barn stars in circular borders are a common sight on Pennsylvania Dutch barns in central and southeastern Pennsylvania, especially in Berks County, Lancaster County and Lehigh County. However, the modern decoration of barns is a late development in Pennsylvania Dutch folk art. Prior to the 1830s, the cost of paint meant that most barns were unpainted. As paint became affordable, the Pennsylvania Dutch began to decorate their barns much like they decorated items in their homes. Barn decorating reached its peak in the early 20th century, at which time there were many artists who specialized in barn decorating. Drawn from a large repertoire of designs barn painters combined many elements in their decorations. The geometric patterns of quilts can be seen in the patterns of many hex signs. Hearts and tulips seen on barns are commonly found on elaborately lettered and decorated birth, baptism and marriage certificates known as fraktur.\nThroughout the 20th century, hex signs were often produced as commodities for the tourist industry in Pennsylvania. These signs could be bought and then mounted onto barns and used as household decorations. Jacob Zook of Paradise, Pennsylvania claimed to have originated the modern mountable sign in 1942, based on traditional designs, to be sold in souvenir gift shops to tourists along the Lincoln Highway. William Schuster, Milton Hill, Johnny Ott, and Johnny and Eric Claypoole also contributed to this hex sign revival or adaptation. Modern artists may stress the symbolic meanings, for example, a horse head is used to protect animals from disease and the building from lightning, and a dove represents peace and contentment. An unusual use is the official logo of the Pennsylvania Bureau of Radiation Protection, which incorporates the international symbol for radiation into its yellow-and-red adaptation of a traditional hex sign design.\n\nThere are two opposing schools of belief regarding the derivation of the name. The term \"hex\" with occult connotations may derive from the Pennsylvanian German word \"hex\" (German \"Hexe\", Dutch \"Heks\"), meaning \"witch.\" However the term \"hex sign\" was not used until the 20th Century, after 1924 when Wallace Nutting's book \"Pennsylvania Beautiful\" was published. Nutting, who was not a Pennsylvania native, interviewed farmers about their distinctive barn decoration. Before this time there was no standardized term and many Pennsylvania German farmers simply called the signs \"blumme\" or \"sterne\" (meaning flowers or stars). However one farmer used the term \"Hexefoos\" in his description. The term became popular with Pennsylvania Germans themselves during the blossoming tourist trade of Southeastern Pennsylvania.\n\nIn recent years, hex signs have come to be used by non-Pennsylvania Dutch persons as talismans for folk magic rather than as items of decoration. Some believe that both the Pennsylvania German barn design and hex designs originate with the Alpine Germans. They note that hexes are of pre-Christian Germanic origin; for instance, a circled rosette is called the \"Sun of the Alps\" in Padania (Po Valley). Based on this history, Neopagans or Germanic heathens have taken up the practice of creating hex signs, incorporating other pre-Christian signs and symbols into the hex work. Gandee, in his book \"Strange Experience, Autobiography of a Hexenmeister\", described hex signs as \"painted prayers\".\n\nSome view the designs as decorative symbols of ethnic identification, possibly originating in reaction to 19th century attempts made by the government to suppress the Pennsylvania German language.\nAnabaptist sects (like the Amish and Mennonites) in the region have a negative view of hex signs. It is not surprising that hex signs are rarely, and perhaps never, seen on an Amish or Mennonite household or farm. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33588989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33588989", "title": "Highly qualified teachers", "text": "Highly qualified teachers\n\nThe highly qualified teacher provision is one of the goals of the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) of 2001. The term highly qualified teachers (HQT) comes from the original language of Title II (Preparing, Training, and Recruiting High Quality Teachers and Principals) of the No Child Left Behind Act. Title II of NCLB designates federal funds to educational agencies for the purpose of improving the student achievement through the professional development of highly qualified teachers and principals. To qualify for this funding, states must comply with a series of conditions stipulated in NCLB, and track their progress toward goals each state sets. Title II was originally known as the Eisenhower Professional Development Program, and has undergone several reauthorizations, though the original intent has remained relatively intact. The main goals of the highly qualified teacher provision is to ensure that every classroom is staffed by a teacher deemed \"highly qualified\" under conditions set by NCLB. As some point out (e.g., Eric Hanushek), this section of NCLB is quite at odds with the general thrust of NCLB because it focuses on school inputs rather than student outcomes. The sections of NCLB designated to HQTs allocates the majority of the funds to the states and does not clearly define at the federal level what is and what is not a highly qualified teacher, allowing for more local definitions of this term. This provision has come under much scrutiny, as it is up to states to decide how to measure highly qualified, and states are not holding their teachers to the same level of rigor across the country. Since its reauthorization in 2001, Title II has yet to reach its stated goal of ensuring that 100% of teachers in public schools in the United States are highly qualified.\n\nThe Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) was reauthorized in 2001 under the administration of former president George W. Bush and renamed the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB). The ultimate goal of this act is to \"To close the achievement gap with accountability, flexibility, and choice, so that no child is left behind.\" It is organized into ten \"titles\", each of which details one particular aspect of the goals of the act, and explains how funds will be allocated to State education agencies (SEAs), local education agencies (LEAs), and State agencies for higher education (SAHEs). Title II, Preparing, Training, and Recruiting High Quality Teachers and Principals, focuses specifically on improving the quality of teachers and principals in publicly funded schools and created the term highly qualified teacher (HQT). Title II of No Child Left Behind aimed to have a highly qualified teacher in every classroom in the United States by 2005. It also gives states greater freedom on spending as it relates to teacher qualify, in the hopes that schools will be able to retain their highly qualified teachers.\n\nWhen the Elementary and Secondary Education Act was first created, Title II was known as the Eisenhower Mathematics and Science Regional Consortiums Program. Its goals were to provide financial assistance to states to support the professional development of their math and science teachers. In 1984, this was reauthorized as the Dwight D. Eisenhower Mathematics and Science Education Program under Title II, Part A of the ESEA, and funding for the program began in 1985. It was developed in the wake of the Nation at Risk Report of 1983 to allocate funds to educational agencies and non-profits through the states. In particular, the Eisenhower Program focused on the professional development of math and science teachers, as the findings of A Nation at Risk indicated that the United States was falling drastically behind the rest of the world in these fields. This report, issued by former President Ronald Reagan, made a series of recommendations to improve the quality of education across the United States based on its findings. One of these recommendations was improved teaching. The report found that teachers were not adequately trained, not well paid, and were not qualified to teach their subject area. The report recommended school boards should hold teachers to higher expectations, teacher training programs should be improved, and that teacher salaries and incentives should be increased.\nReauthorization through the Eisenhower Program built off of the recommendations of the Nation At Risk Report and expanded the focus of professional development to include all core subject areas. The original goals of the program were to support the professional development of teachers of core subject, target those teachers who teach \"at-risk\" students, integrate other reform efforts to ensure all aspect of the education system were geared toward the same goals, and track the progress of states and local education agencies against a series of performance indicators. States were required to measure their performance using a series of six objectives aimed to develop highly qualified teachers and a system of highly qualified teachers. When ESEA was reauthorized in 1994, this program was also reauthorized and renamed the Eisenhower Professional Development Program. Finally, in 2001 with the latest reauthorization and rename of ESEA, the Eisenhower Program was renamed Title II: Preparing, Training, and Recruiting High Quality Teachers and Principals.\n\nCurrently, it is the job of the states to define what it means to be \"highly qualified\" and to monitor their own progress. States are required to complete and submit three annual reports on the progress they are making. Schools of education need to report their graduation pass rates for teacher certification to the state in April. States then report \"information on certification and licensure requirements, pass rates on state assessments disaggregated and ranked by institution, and other information\" to the U.S. Department of Education in October. The U.S. Secretary of Education then releases an Annual Report on Teacher Quality which synthesizes this data.\n\nThe purpose of Title II funding is to provide federal grants to State education agencies (SEAs), local education agencies (LEAs), and State agencies for higher education (SAHEs) in order to (Section 2101):\n\nPart A, Subpart 1, which includes Section 2102 and 2103, define terms and authorizes the appropriations of these funds to state, LEAs, and other partners.\n\nSubpart 2 (Sections 2111–2113) of Title II details how grants will be disbursed to the states. It explains specifically how the law determines the allotment of funds to each state, the conditions with which the state must comply in order to apply for and be approved for funding, and how the states may use the funds. States must provide a detailed description of how they will use the money, and what they will do to monitor their progress toward becoming \"highly qualified.\" The law also explains that 95% of the grant must go directly to the local education agencies in the form of subgrants. The remaining 5% of funds are to be used for other partnerships and other state activities which may require funding. However, the majority of the grant money is distributed to LEAs for the improvement of teacher quality.\n\nSubpart 3 (Sections 2121–2123) focus specifically on the LEAs' use of funds. It explains that to be eligible for the funds, LEAs must apply to the state and specify: what activities they plan to use the money for, how these activities are scientifically based in research that shows they will have a positive impact on teacher performance and student academic achievement, how the LEA plans on targeting teachers of at-risk students, what professional development to teachers and principals they will offer, how the LEA will integrate technology, the results, and any additional training that may be provided to teachers. It specifies that the use of these funds should be to recruit and develop highly qualified teachers, and then create mechanisms to retain these teachers in the schools. LEAs should also provide professional development and incentivize teacher retention.\n\nSubpart 4 describes the measures states will take to hold themselves and LEAs accountable for the use of this grant money. Subpart 5 of Part A of Title II describes the National Activities that will take place surrounding HQTs.\n\nA full outline of Parts A, B (Mathematics and Science Partnerships), and Part C (Innovation for Teacher Quality) can be found on the U.S. Department of Education's website.\n\nWhen the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) was reauthorized as No Child Left Behind (NCLB) in 2001, it called for major improvements in teacher quality across the board. Teacher quality has long been regarded as the essential component when it comes to factors that affect a student's education. Indeed, the Coleman Report claimed this to be true in 1966, and subsequent studies have reported this research. Excellent teaching can result in more than one year's growth of education, while poor quality teaching can result in loss of years of learning. Given the strength of these findings, it is not surprising that NCLB chose to focus on improving teacher quality. Indeed, the 2001 act included statues that required for 100% of core subject classes be taught by highly qualified teachers by the close of the 2005–2006 academic year. It required states to create and to publish their plans for achieving this goal. It also required for states to track their progress towards this goal, and to publish the progress every year.\n\nStates did not hit the 100% highly qualified mark by the end of the 2006 academic year. However, by end of the 2009–2010 academic year, the Department of Education reported that 98% of elementary core classes were taught by HQTs and 96% of secondary core classes were taught by HQTs. 41 of 50 states reported an increase in the overall percentage of HQTs from the 2003–2004 academic year to the 2009–2010 academic year. Furthermore, 13 states reported 99% of core classes were taught by HQTs. However, the Department of Education also reported that low-poverty schools had a greater percentage of HQTs than high-poverty schools in 47 of 50 states.\n\nAccording to NCLB, a highly qualified teacher must have \"1) a bachelor's degree, 2) full state certification or licensure, and 3) prove that they know each subject they teach.\" Beyond that, NCLB does not define its terminology, and it leaves requirements up the states. States are allowed the liberty to determine how teachers can prove their content knowledge. Many states have chosen to approach this issue with standardized content exams. However, the exams, themselves, are not standardized. This means that \"qualification\" has a different meaning in each state. A teacher who may be deemed \"highly qualified\" by Alabama standards, may not be deemed \"highly qualified\" by California standards. Some scholars point out that \"from a practical standpoint, interstate differences in what it meant to be certified provided the federal government with few assurances that, across the board, the nations' teachers were qualified to teach\". There is also widespread disagreement about what it means to be a highly qualified teacher.\n\nAccording to the National Commission on Teaching and America's future, HQTs should \"graduate from accredited institutions, pass licensing examinations that include both content and performance components, and be certified when they obtain advanced levels of competence\". While others point out that standardized test scores and prestigious degrees neither effectively prepare HQTs for the classroom nor capture the qualities necessary to be an effective teacher.\n\nUltimately, while the Department of Education may state 97% coverage of HQTs in core content classrooms, the true meaning of \"qualified\" remains vague and transient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1846990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1846990", "title": "Information flow", "text": "Information flow\n\nIn discourse-based grammatical theory, information flow is any tracking of referential information by speakers. Information may be \"new,\" just introduced into the conversation; \"given,\" already active in the speakers' consciousness; or \"old,\" no longer active. The various types of activation, and how these are defined, are model-dependent.\n\nInformation flow affects grammatical structures such as: \n"}
{"id": "37063450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37063450", "title": "Italian irredentism in Dalmatia", "text": "Italian irredentism in Dalmatia\n\nItalian irredentism in Dalmatia was the political movement supporting the unification to Italy, during the 19th and 20th centuries, of adriatic Dalmatia.\n\nThe \"only official evidence\" about the Dalmatian population comes from the 1857 Austro-Hungarian census, which showed that in this year there were 369,310 indigenous Croatians and 45,000 Italians in Dalmatia, making Dalmatian Italians 10.8% of the total population of Dalmatia in the mid-19th century.\n\nDalmatia was a strategic region during World War I that both Italy and Serbia intended to seize from Austria-Hungary. Italy joined the Triple Entente Allies in 1915 upon agreeing to the London Pact that guaranteed Italy the right to annex a large portion of Dalmatia in exchange for Italy's participation on the Allied side. From 5–6 November 1918, Italian forces were reported to have reached Vis, Lastovo, Šibenik, and other localities on the Dalmatian coast. By the end of hostilities in November 1918, the Italian military had seized control of the entire portion of Dalmatia that had been guaranteed to Italy by the London Pact and by 17 November had seized Fiume as well. In 1918, Admiral Enrico Millo declared himself Italy's Governor of Dalmatia. Famous Italian nationalist Gabriele d'Annunzio supported the seizure of Dalmatia, and proceeded to occupy some areas in an Italian warship in December 1918.\n\nThe last city with a significant Italian presence in Dalmatia was the city of Zara (now called Zadar). In the Habsburg empire census of 1910 the city of Zara had an Italian population of 9,318 (or 69.3% out of the total of 13,438 inhabitants). The population grew to 24,100 inhabitants, of which 20,300 Italians, when was in 1942 the capital of the Governatorate of Dalmatia (the \"Governatorate\" fulfilled the aspirations of the Italian irredentism in the Adriatic).\n\nIn 1943, Josip Broz Tito informed the Allies that Zara was a chief logistic centre for German forces in Yugoslavia. By overstating its importance, he persuaded them of its military significance. Italy surrendered in September 1943 and over the following year, specifically between 2 November 1943 and 31 October 1944, Allied Forces bombarded the town fifty-four times.\n\nNearly 2,000 people were buried beneath rubble; 10–12,000 people escaped and took refuge in Trieste and slightly over 1,000 reached Apulia.\n\nTito's partisans entered in the city on 31 October 1944, and 138 people were killed. \nWith the Peace Treaty of 1947, Italians still living in the city and in Dalmatia followed the Italian exodus from Istria and Dalmatia and only about 100 Dalmatian Italians now remain in actual Zadar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1426775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1426775", "title": "J. Paul Getty Trust", "text": "J. Paul Getty Trust\n\nThe J. Paul Getty Trust is one of world's wealthiest art institutions with an estimated endowment in 2017 of $US 6.9 billion. Based in Los Angeles, California, it operates the J. Paul Getty Museum, which has two locations, the Getty Center in Los Angeles and the Getty Villa in Pacific Palisades district of Los Angeles, California. Its other programs are the Getty Foundation, the Getty Research Institute, and the Getty Conservation Institute.\n\nWith an estimated 1.6 million visitors per year, the trust operates one of the most visited museums in the United States. The trust also provides grants and training to other museums and cultural institutions. The trust has a library, publications program and visiting scholar program. The trust's conservation program is dedicated to advancing conservation practice through the creation and delivery of knowledge. However, since 2008, the trust has scaled back the scope of its activities in response to financial challenges.\n\nThe J. Paul Getty Museum Trust was established by oilman J. Paul Getty in 1953. Getty founded the Getty Oil Company, and in 1957 \"Fortune\" magazine named him the richest living American. At his death, he was worth more than $2 billion. Getty died in 1976 and left the bulk of his estate, including nearly $660 million worth of stock in Getty Oil, to the J. Paul Getty Museum Trust. Legal conflicts over the will took years to resolve, but in 1982 the trust finally received Getty's full bequest. The trust began to add a number of new programs in 1982, and in February 1983, it petitioned the court to change its name to the J. Paul Getty Trust.\n\nIn 1997 Barry Munitz was named the president and CEO of the trust. He began work in January 1998, succeeding Harold M. Williams, the first president of the Getty Trust, who oversaw construction of the $1 billion Getty Center designed by architect Richard Meier. With an endowment of $4.2 billion, the Getty Trust is the wealthiest art institution in the world. Early in his tenure, Munitz reorganized the Getty Trust, closing two of the institution's six programs—the Getty Information Institute and the Getty Education Institute. To deal with long-run financial issues, he sought to cultivate relationships with donors and corporate partners. His leadership became increasingly controversial as the Getty Trust was embroiled in numerous controversies relating to the provenance of various antiquities in the Getty Museum's collections and Munitz' expense account. In the midst of an investigation by the California Attorney General,\nMunitz resigned in 2006 and was forced to \"forgo his severance package of more than $2 million, and reimburse the Getty Trust for $250,000 after alleged improprieties including lavish expense account spending.\"\n\nOn December 4, 2006, the trust announced the hiring of art historian James N. Wood, the former Director of the Art Institute of Chicago, as the trust's new president and CEO, replacing Barry Munitz, who was forced to step down earlier in the year. In 2009, after a substantial drop in the trust's assets, Wood cut nearly 100 employees at the trust's various operations, most at the Getty Museum. Fees for parking at the museum and the Getty Villa were raised by 50% to $15. Wood died suddenly of natural causes on June 12, 2010. In May 2011 James Cuno, director of the Art Institute of Chicago, was named president and chief executive of the Getty Trust, to take office in August.\n\nThe J. Paul Getty Museum is an art museum. It has two locations, one at the Getty Center in Los Angeles, California, and one at the Getty Villa in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles, California. The museum at the Getty Center contains \"Western art from the Middle Ages to the present;\" its estimated 1.3 million visitors annually makes it one of the most visited museums in the United States. The museum at the Getty Villa contains art from \"ancient Greece, Rome, and Etruria\". The museum started as J. Paul Getty's personal art collection.\n\nThe Getty Foundation was originally called the \"Getty Grant Program,\" which began in 1984 under the direction of Deborah Marrow. The J. Paul Getty Trust can spend up to 0.75% of its endowment on gifts and grants; by 1990 the Getty Grant Program (then based in Santa Monica) had made 530 grants totaling $20 million to \"art historians, conservators and art museums in 18 countries\". For example, a foundation grant funded the restoration of the Cosmati Pavement in the floor of Westminster Abbey. For many years, the foundation conducted the Getty Leadership Institute (GLI). The major GLI program is the Museum Leadership Institute (MLI), formerly known as the Museum Management Institute, which \"has served close to 1,000 museum professionals from the United States and 30 countries worldwide\". However, effective on January 2, 2010, the GLI was transferred to the Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, California and was renamed \"The Getty Leadership Institute at Claremont Graduate University\".\n\nThe Getty Research Institute (GRI), located at the Getty Center in Los Angeles, California, is \"dedicated to furthering knowledge and advancing understanding of the visual arts\". GRI maintains a research library, organizes exhibitions and other events, sponsors a residential scholars program, publishes books, and maintains electronic databases including a Semantic Web service. The GRI was originally called the \"Getty Center for the History of Art and the Humanities\", and was conceived as early as 1983. Among other holdings, GRI's research library contains about 900,000 volumes of books, periodicals, and auction catalogs; special collections; and two million photographs of art and architecture. The library also includes the trust's \"Institutional Archives\" which document the activities of the trust's various programs.\n\nThe Getty Conservation Institute (GCI), located in Los Angeles, California, is headquartered at the Getty Center but also has facilities at the Getty Villa, and commenced operation in 1985. The GCI is a private international research institution dedicated to advancing conservation practice through the creation and delivery of knowledge. It \"serves the conservation community through scientific research, education and training, model field projects, and the dissemination of the results of both its own work and the work of others in the field\" and \"adheres to the principles that guide the work of the Getty Trust: service, philanthropy, teaching, and access\". GCI has activities in both art conservation and architectural conservation. GCI scientists study the deterioration of objects and buildings, and how to prevent or stop such deterioration. GCI has also been involved with long-term education programs, such as establishing a master's degree program in Archaeological and Ethnographic Conservation in collaboration with the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nFrom 1983 to June 1999, the Trust ran the Getty Information Institute (GII) which sought to collect electronic information to serve cultural heritage institution and researchers. Together with the American Council of Learned Societies GII sought to build a broad coalition of non-profits to establish a National Initiative for a Networked Cultural Heritage. Upon the dissolution of the GII, its data bases were transferred to the Getty Research Institute.\n\nThe trust was established by a Trust Indenture dated December 2, 1953 that created a California charitable trust was \"the diffusion of artistic and general knowledge.\" The trust is governed by a 13-member board of trustees. Trustees are elected to serve four-year terms, with a maximum limit of three terms. The board is self-perpetuating with the board electing or re-electing the trustees. The board holds an annual meeting in May or June of each year. Although the board conducts most of its work through committees, a number of important decisions are reserved for the entire board including approval of any art acquisition costing more than $1 million.\n\nOn October 2, 2006, the California Attorney General issued a report following an investigation of the trust and its operations. At the close of the investigation an independent monitor was hired to assure proper governance and expenditures of the trust. On May 7, 2008, the Attorney General closed the monitoring process.\n\nThe trust was hurt by the economic downturn following 2007 and has reduced its annual budget by 14%. In 2007, the trust had $6.4 billion in endowment, but this amount dropped to $4.5 billion in 2009. In 2009, the trust had $300 million in expenses down from $349 million in 2008. For example, GRI co-produced the Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals with the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library, but transferred that activity to Columbia University on July 1, 2009.\n\nWith the recovery of the post-recession economy, the trust rose to $6.9 billion by 2017.\n\nThe J. Paul Getty Medal was established in 2013 by the Trustees of the J. Paul Getty Trust to honor extraordinary contributions to the practice, understanding and support of the arts.\n\nThe first recipients of the Getty Medal, which was presented in December 2013, were Harold M. Williams and Nancy Englander, who were honored for their leadership in creating the Getty as it exists today. In November 2014, the Getty Medal was presented to Jacob Rothschild, 4th Baron Rothschild, a volunteer cultural leader known for his dedication to the preservation and public interpretation of Waddesdon Manor.\n\nIn September 2015, the Getty Medal was awarded to architect Frank Gehry, who has built an architectural career over five decades and produced public and private buildings in America, Europe, and Asia. His work has earned Mr. Gehry several of the most significant awards in the architectural field, including the Pritzker Architecture Prize.\n\nThe 2016 Getty Medal will be awarded to musician Yo-Yo Ma and, posthumously, to artist Ellsworth Kelly at a celebratory dinner in October. In addition to his accomplished career as a master cellist, Ma founded the Silk Road Ensemble and the nonprofit Silkroad to promote the creation of new music, cross-cultural partnerships, education programs, and cross-disciplinary collaborations to create meaningful change at the intersection of the arts, education, and business. Accomplished painter and sculptor Ellsworth Kelly has supported the conservation of historical and contemporary art at museums and heritage sites in the U.S. and around the world, as well as the preservation of natural environment, through the Ellsworth Kelly Foundation.\n\nIn September 2018, the Getty Medal will be awarded to Thelma Golden, director and chief curator of The Studio Museum in Harlem, Agnes Gund, president emerita of the Museum of Modern Art, and Richard Sierra, minimalist sculptor.\n"}
{"id": "2451190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2451190", "title": "Jewish views on incest", "text": "Jewish views on incest\n\nJewish views on incest deal with the sexual relationships which are prohibited by Judaism and rabbinic authorities on account of a close family relationship that exists between persons. Such prohibited relationships are commonly referred to as incest or incestuous, though that term does not appear in the biblical and rabbinic sources. The term mostly used by rabbinic sources is \"forbidden relationships in Judaism.\"\n\nThe Hebrew Bible sets out several lists of relationships which it regards as incestuous. One list appears in Deuteronomy, and two lists appear in the Book of Leviticus. These lists only mention relationships with female relatives; excluding lesbianism, this implies that the list is addressed to men. Since the lists would then describe women with whom it is forbidden for a man to have a relationship, they also indirectly imply a list of men with whom it is forbidden for a woman to have a relationship. These lists then compare as follows \n\nOne of the most notable features of all the lists is that sexual activity between a man and his own daughter is not explicitly forbidden, although the first relation mentioned after the Levitical prohibition of sex with \"near kin\" is that of \"thy father.\" (This assumes that the Torah is only speaking to men. If it is speaking to everyone, then a woman is not allowed to have sex with her father. It also explicitly prohibits having sex with a woman and her daughter. A man's daughter is obviously also the daughter of a woman with whom he had sexual relations.) The Talmud argues that this absence is because the prohibition was \"obvious\", especially given the proscription against a relationship with a granddaughter. As with the case of a man's own daughter, the shortness of the list in Leviticus 20, and especially of that in Deuteronomy, are explained by classical Jewish scholarship as being due to the \"obviousness\" of the missing prohibitions.\n\nApart from the case of a man marrying his daughter, the list in Leviticus 18 roughly produces the same rules as were followed in early (pre-Islamic) Arabic culture. However, most tribal nations also disliked exogamous marriage - marriage to completely unrelated people.\n\nJudaism's view is that prior to the giving of the Torah at Mount Sinai, some of the prohibitions only applied voluntarily. Thus in several prominent cases in the Torah, the incest rules are ignored in favour of marriage to a close relative; Jacob is described as having married his first wife's sister.\n\nSome secular Biblical scholars have instead proposed that forbidding incest with a daughter \"was\" originally in the list, but was then accidentally left out from the copy on which modern versions of the text ultimately depend, due to a mistake by the scribe.\n\nIn the 4th century BC, the Soferim (\"scribes\") declared that there were relationships within which marriage constituted incest, in addition to those mentioned by the Bible. These additional relationships were termed \"seconds\" (Hebrew: \"sheniyyot\"), and included the wives of a man's:\n\nThe classical rabbis prohibited marriage between a man and any of these \"seconds\" of his, on the basis that doing so would act as a \"safeguard\" against infringing the Biblical incest rules; one Talmudic opinion even argues that the inclusion of the grandfather's wife and of the grandson's wife, among the \"seconds\", is based on the Biblical rule against a wife's granddaughter. There was however some debate as to which relationships, other than the four listed above, counted as \"seconds\"; the Talmudic scholars and Rabbinic scholars of the middle age, the Rishonim, variously included or excluded the following relationships from the \"seconds\" of a man:\n\nThe extent to which the forbidden relationships extend beyond the \"seconds\" is a matter of dispute, but all the Talmudic scholars agree that marriage to the wife of any male descendant, in the direct male line, was forbidden; some classical rabbis also included the wife of any male ancestor, in the direct male line, in this prohibition, as did all of the Jewish scholars of the Middle Ages. In the Jerusalem Talmud, some of the opinions even include all blood descendants and ancestors of the \"seconds\" in the prohibition.\n\nIn relation to \"seconds\" related only by marriage, some proposed the general principle that it would be acceptable to marry anyone only related to a \"second\" by a further marriage; for example, a wife of a father-in-law (apart from the mother-in-law), or the stepson's daughter-in-law. However, Israel Lipschitz interpreted this as forbidding even marriage to a wife's former husband's wife.\n\nAt least all Talmudic opinions agree that it was theoretically permitted to marry a stepfather's wife (excepting the mother), and to marry a stepsibling (a man marrying his stepsister, etc.). Nevertheless, some of the opinions expressed in the Jerusalem Talmud argue that, to avoid observers jumping to the wrong conclusions, marriage between stepsiblings, or between a man and his wife's stepmother, should be forbidden, or at least carried out somewhere that observers would not already know that the participants are step-relations.\n\nWhat is clear, is that no opinion in the Talmud forbids marriage to a cousin or a sister's daughter (a class of niece), and it even commends marriage to the latter - the closer relation of the two. The implied support for marriage between cousins appears to have historically been taken to heart; in 19th century England, the proportion of Jewish marriages occurring between cousins was 3.5 times higher than for the marriages of other religions; in 19th century Lorraine the proportion was twice as high as that for Roman Catholics, and 12 times higher than that for Protestants.\n\nMarriages forbidden in the Bible were regarded by the rabbis of the Middle Ages, the Rishonim as invalid - as if they had never occurred; any children born to such a couple were regarded as mamzerrim \"bastards\", and the relatives of the spouse were not regarded as forbidden relations for a further marriage. On the other hand, those relationships which were prohibited due to qualifying as \"seconds\", and so forth, were regarded as wicked, but still valid; while they might have pressured such a couple to divorce, any children of the union were still seen as legitimate.\n\nIn general, the Jerusalem Talmud is more restrictive in regard to incest than the Babylonian Talmud; Ashkenazi Jews, following Joseph Karo, generally follow the incest regulations of the Jerusalem Talmud, while Sephardi Jews, exemplified by Maimonides, tend to follow the Babylonian Talmud. Thus Jacob ben Meir deliberately wrecked a wedding, stopping the marriage and spoiling the banquet and celebrations, because the man would have married his father-in-law's wife.\n\nThe classical rabbis regarded the incest regulations as being too important and too open to misinterpretation to be taught in public, instead requiring that, when it is taught, it must be taught to each student individually. They also argued that on occasions when the Bible was read in public, and the reading happened to involve some of the Biblical rules against incest, then the reading must be stopped, if the reader interprets the regulations in a different way to the Talmudic opinions.\n\nThe Karaites interpret the incest regulations in a way which differs from the Talmudic opinions, regarding the Talmud as worthless. The early Karaites adopted the principle that marriage was a true and full union - each spouse was to be considered legally as the same person, and hence someone related to one spouse was seen as having exactly the same relation to the other. Applied to the Biblical regulations, this produced drastically simple rules, prohibiting marriage between almost all relations and spousal relations, except that a man could still marry his niece (or step-niece) and his grandmother (or grandfather's wife, or spouse's grandmother, or spouse's grandfather's wife). However, it also prohibited marriage to the relatives of every subsequent husband of a divorced wife; if just a few women here and there engaged in serial monogamy (repeated marriage then divorce, to different people), there would be no-one left on the planet who could get married to absolutely anyone else.\n\nIn the eleventh century, two Karaite reformists rejected the principle that a marriage was a true and full union, instead arguing that the only relationships that should be forbidden were those analogous to those in the Biblical prohibitions. Dividing the principle relatives into two groups:\n\nThey organised the forbidden relationships into five or six categories:\n\nThis reformed list of prohibited relations was subsequently adopted by almost all Karaites.\n\n"}
{"id": "30166867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30166867", "title": "Journal of Sociolinguistics", "text": "Journal of Sociolinguistics\n\nThe Journal of Sociolinguistics is a peer-reviewed academic journal that covers topics in sociolinguistics. Its scope encompasses a wide range of languages treated from a multidisciplinary point of view. It was established in 1997 and appears four times a year. It is published by Wiley-Blackwell and the current editor in chief is Monica Heller (sociolinguist),(University of Toronto).\n\nThe journal is indexed in the following services:\n\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.200.\n"}
{"id": "34356729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34356729", "title": "Journalism &amp; Communication Monographs", "text": "Journalism &amp; Communication Monographs\n\nJournalism & Communication Monographs is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the fields of journalism and mass communication. The editor-in-chief is Linda Steiner (Philip Merrill College of Journalism, University of Maryland). It was established in 1999 and is currently published by SAGE Publications in association with the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication.\n\n\"Journalism & Communication Monographs\" is abstracted and indexed in \"Communication Abstracts\".\n"}
{"id": "44081312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44081312", "title": "Kitne Pakistan", "text": "Kitne Pakistan\n\nKitne Pakistan (translation: How Many Pakistan?) is a 2000 Hindi novel by Kamleshwar, noted 20th-century Hindi writer, a pioneer of the \"Nayi Kahani\" (\"New Story\") movement of the 1950s, and later screenwriter for Hindi cinema. The novel combines allegory and realism, and deals with a vast expanse of human history, as it follows the rise of sectarianism, nationalism, Hindutva and communalism. Raising questions about the true motives of the people who make decision on the behalf and for common people, who throughout the history have bore the brunt of their decision. It witnesses the violence, separation and bloodshed in the aftermath of partition of India in 1947 and examines the nature and futility of divisive politics and religion.\n\nIt won the 2003 Sahitya Akademi Award for Hindi, given by Sahitya Akademi, India's National Academy of Letters. Today, the novel is considered as author's finest work, and one of the classics of modern Hindi literature.\n\nKamleshwar started working his ambitious novel in May 1990, aiming to understand Partition through allegory and realism.\n\nThe first English translation of the novel came in 2001, in an partition anthology \"Translating partition\" published by Katha, which also featured works by Saadat Hasan Manto and Bhisham Sahni. This was followed by another translation by Ameena Kazi Ansari, \"Partitions\" was published by Penguin Books in 2006, subsequently it was widely anthologised, It has been subject of several critical studies, including \"Partition stories : mapping community, communalism, and gender\" (2009) by Vinod K Chopra. In 2013, another study, \"Kitne Pakistan: sampradayika vimarsha\" (Dialogue on communalism) of the novel was published by Pratapsingh Rajput.\n\nThe novel achieved both popular and critical acclaim, it has been translated into several languages including Marathi and French.\n\nIn a fictional court, various historical characters are brought to the witness's box and asked to narrate their version of history. These historical personalities range from mughal emperors Babur and Aurangzeb, Spanish adventurer Hernando Cortez, Lord Mountbatten, Adolf Hitler and Saddam Hussein, along with political leaders, religious zealots and even scheming Gods of mythology, many are accused of creating innumerable divided nations and people, and a legacy of hatred and distrust. The only arbiter standing for the humanity, is an unnamed abeed, littérateur. He listens to the witnesses, and mulls over the casualties of Kurukshetra, Kargil, Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Nazi Germany, East Timor, the Aztec civilization and mythological Greece to Bosnia.\n\nIn a 2007 interview, poet-lyricist Gulzar with whom Kamleshwar had work in film career, noted about the novel, \"I had underlined so many sentences that were potential short stories or film material. There is a description where a handkerchief falls off the bridge; I always used to tell him that I could write a complete short story on this one line only.\" The novel has also been adapted to a play in 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18849625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18849625", "title": "Kumhrar", "text": "Kumhrar\n\nKumhrar or Kumrahar is the name of an area of Patna, where remains of the ancient city of Pataliputra were excavated. It is located 5 km east of Patna Railway Station.\n\nArchaeological remains of the Mauryan period (322–185 BCE) have been discovered here, this include the ruins of a hypostyle 80-pillared hall The excavation finding here dates back to 600 BCE, and marks the ancient capital of Ajatshatru, Chandragupta and Ashoka, and collectively the relics range from four continuous periods from 600 BCE to 600 CE.\n\nFollowing the excavation of nearby Bulandi Bagh by L.A. Waddell in 1895, American archaeologist David Brainard Spooner excavated in 1912-1913 in Kumhrar one pillar of polished stone, and a very large number of fragments. The excavators were able to trace 72 'pits' of ash and rubble on the site which marked the position in which other pillars must once have stood. During the subsequent excavation, done by K P Jaiswal, 1951-1955, eight more such pits were found, giving the hall its present name – \"Assembly hall of 80 pillars\".\n\nThe pillars are arranged in 8 rows of 10 pillars each. The pillars are separated with each other by a distance of 4.57 meters. Each pillar is made of fine sandstone from Chunar, and was 9.75 meters in height, of which 2.74 meters were below the surface for grounding. Since no other stone works were recovered, it is thought that the pillars sustained a wooden roof, and that there were no surrounding walls, making it an open-air hall. South of the pillared hall, seven wooden platforms were excavated, which are thought to have supported a staircase going into the canal to welcome guests. \n\nAll the ruins are attributed to the Mauryan period, though historians vary regarding the use of the 80-pillar hall, some suggest that it was in this hall that Third Buddhist Council was held, in 250 BCE, at \"Ashokarama\" in Patiliputta (Pataliputra), under the reign of Mauryan Emperor, Ashoka (r. 273-232 BCE). The pillared hall seems to have been located about 350 meters south of the wooden palisades of the city of Pataliputra (discovered in the area of Bulandi Bagh), and was standing by the banks of the former Son river, and therefore cannot have been the Mauryan palace, but probably only \"a pleasure hall outside the city walls\".\nSpooner initially thought that the pillars that were not found had sunk into the ground, but later research by Indian archaeologist Altekar showed that instead they had been removed by locals and reused for construction purposes. Altekar also thought that the compound was an isolated structure outside the city of Pataliputra, with not much around it, and that it had been burnt down during the time of the Sunga.\n\nAnand Bihar: The foundations of the brick Buddhist monastery were excavated, apart from wooden beams and clay figures, which are now kept for public display in the surrounding park.<br>\nArogya Vihar: Also found during the excavations, are the presence of an \"Arogya Vihar\" headed by Dhanvantari, an early Indian medical practitioner, considered the source of Ayurveda.<br>\nDurakhi Devi Temple – Excavations in 1890s, by Laurence Waddell, revealed a detached piece of a carved stone railing of a stupa, with female figures on both the sides, giving it the name, 'Durukhi' or 'Durukhiya' (double faced) Devi, a specimen of Shunga art 2-1st century BCE. The figures are shown grabbing and breaking branches of trees, are \"Shalabhanjikas\" (the breaker of branches), the young women under a fertility ritual. These images were later brought to their present location, at Naya Tola (Kankarbagh), a kilometer west to the site, where they are presently worshipped in a temple-like structure; a replica of these figures has also been kept in Patna Museum.\n\nKumhrar is going to have a metro station under the Patna Metro plan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58098919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58098919", "title": "Leone Healing Garden", "text": "Leone Healing Garden\n\nThe Leone Healing Garden (or Garden of Healing) is a garden memorial in Leone dedicated to those who lost their lives in the 2009 tsunami. The Healing Garden is meant to allow families of the victims of the tsunami to have a place \"where they can grieve and celebrate life at the same time\". The first chair of the garden was Ipu Avegalio Lefiti and the project manager is Makerita Enesi. The garden contains plants, a sculpture made by Patrick Mafo'e, and plaques with the names of the 11 people who died in the tsunami. \n\nThe Healing Garden was begun in 2010 and was built on a site where much of the damage caused by the tsunami occurred. Some of the original funding came from the Nuanua Recovery Project. The garden was opened in 2012. In 2013, the garden received 30 plants in celebration of Earth Day. It continues to host memorial services for victims of the tsunami.\n"}
{"id": "37736617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37736617", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Malta", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Malta\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage sites are places of importance to cultural or natural heritage as described in the UNESCO World Heritage Convention, established in 1972. Malta ratified the convention on 14 November 1978, making its historical sites eligible for inclusion on the list.\n\nSites in Malta were first inscribed on the list at the 4th Session of the World Heritage Committee, held in Paris, France in 1980. At that session, all three current sites were added to the list: the Ħal Saflieni Hypogeum, City of Valletta, and Ġgantija Temples. In 1992, the temples of Ħaġar Qim, Mnajdra, Ta' Ħaġrat, Skorba, and Tarxien were added to the site of Ġgantija Temples, to form the Megalithic Temples of Malta site. Further minor modification of boundaries of this site took place in 2015. All three sites are listed as cultural sites, as determined by the organization's selection criteria.\n\nAs of 2018, there Malta also has seven sites on the tentative list, all of which were listed in 1998.\n\nUNESCO lists sites under ten criteria; each entry must meet at least one of the criteria. Criteria i through vi are cultural, whereas vii through x are natural.\n\nIn addition to the sites inscribed on the World Heritage list, member states can maintain a list of tentative sites that they may consider for nomination. Nominations for the World Heritage list are only accepted if the site has previously been listed on the tentative list.\n\nAs of 2018, Malta was recording seven such sites on its tentative list, all of which were added in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "640911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=640911", "title": "List of satirists and satires", "text": "List of satirists and satires\n\nBelow is an incomplete list of writers, cartoonists and others known for their involvement in satire – humorous social criticism. They are grouped by era and listed by year of birth. Also included is a list of modern satires.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn modern culture, much satire is often the work of several individuals collectively, as in magazines and television. Hence the following list.\n\n\n\nWe're only in it For the Money—Frank Zappa and the Mothers of Invention\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31914514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31914514", "title": "List of special tribunals and courts", "text": "List of special tribunals and courts\n\nThis is a list of special or exceptional tribunals and courts for the trying of people. Sometimes, courts that don't try people but curtail political freedoms are also derogatively called \"special tribunals,\" as well as court that establish a privileged jurisdiction for powerful individuals or the government. List coverage is through history and worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37578611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37578611", "title": "Magic store", "text": "Magic store\n\nA magic store (also magic shop or magician's supply shop) is an establishment which sells materials for performing magic tricks. Magic shops often also sell practical jokes and novelty items, and frequently serve as informal gathering places for amateur magicians, with some hosting organized magic clubs.\n"}
{"id": "54512497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54512497", "title": "Majorville Cairn and Medicine Wheel site", "text": "Majorville Cairn and Medicine Wheel site\n\nThe Majorville Cairn and Medicine Wheel (\"Iniskim Umaapi\") is an archaeological site of the Blackfeet Nation located south of Bassano, Alberta. The medicine wheel has been dated to 3200 BCE (5200 years ago) by careful stratification of known artifact types.\n\nThe medicine wheel sits on top of a grassy hill at an elevation of 918 m overlooking a large area of undisturbed prairie around the Bow River. The structure consists of a round stone cairn, 9 m in diameter, surrounded by a 27 m wide cobble circle connected to the cairn by 28 stone spokes. This arrangement is categorized as Subgroup 6 and of the total 67 known medicine wheels only 3 belong to this category, the other two being the Jennings site in South Dakota and Bighorn in Wyoming.\n\nThe southern half of the cairn has been excavated and the projectile points found indicate it was in use since the Oxbow/McKean Phase for the last 4500 years. The site was built in layers, with the earliest date from the cairn determined at 3845 plus/minus 85 radiocarbon years before present. Calibrated to calendar years this is 2384 plus minus 124 years before 1950, although this sample doesn't come from the earliest construction period.\n\nAmong the stones were found offerings in the form of sweet grass, willow, cloth and tobacco. The site further yielded \"iniskim\" stones (\"buffalo calling stones\"), fragments of ammonite fossils that can be found in the bedrock exposed by the Bow River to the east of the site. Iniskim are small natural stones that resemble the shoulders and hump of a buffalo. In this case the petrified coils of ammonite shells that broke along the septa into small figurines with four prongs on one side resembling legs. These have been used in the Blackfeet Nation folklore to secure the return of the migrating buffaloes.\n"}
{"id": "28692316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28692316", "title": "Margaret Jones (Puritan midwife)", "text": "Margaret Jones (Puritan midwife)\n\nMargaret Jones (1613 – June 15, 1648) was the first person to be executed for witchcraft in Massachusetts Bay Colony during a witch-hunt that lasted from 1648 to 1693. About eighty people throughout New England were accused of practicing witchcraft during that period. Thirteen women and two men were executed.\n\nJones, who resided in Charlestown, now a section of Boston, was a midwife and practiced medicine. Some of what caused her to be accused of witchcraft had to do with these practices. There are only two primary sources of information on Jones' plight: Governor John Winthrop's journal and the observances of minister John Hale, who, as a 12-year-old boy, had witnessed Jones' execution.\n\nJohn Winthrop, as governor, and several other founders of the Massachusetts Bay Colony were among the members of the General Court which tried and convicted Margaret Jones for witchcraft. The others included deputy governor Thomas Dudley and assistant governors John Endicott, Richard Bellingham, William Hibbins, Increase Nowell, Simon Bradstreet, John Winthrop, Jr., and William Pynchon. Ann Hibbins, who was executed for witchcraft in 1656, was reputed to be the sister of Richard Bellingham, and was the widow of William Hibbins. William Hibbins was succeeded as assistant by Humphrey Atherton, who sat in judgment of Ann Hibbins.\nWinthrop's journal does not reveal anything specific about what caused the accusations against Jones, or her husband, William, who was also accused but not convicted. The case against her was built on evidence collected using the methods of English Witchfinder General, Matthew Hopkins. Hopkins manual on witch-hunting was published one year before Jones' conviction, in which Hopkins prescribed the practice of \"watching\" which required the accused to sit in a specific position, usually with legs crossed for a period of twenty four hours, during which she or he would be observed. If the person was a witch, it was supposed that within twenty four hours an imp would appear to feed off the witch. An imp was a small creature, or familiar, who depended upon the witch for daily sustenance. The watching of Margaret Jones occurred on May 18, 1648 and Winthrop recorded an imp was seen \"In the clear light of day.\"\n\nWinthrop recorded the evidence used to convict Jones in his journal:\n\"June 15, 1648: At this court, one Margaret Jones, of Charlestown, was indicted and found guilty of witchcraft, and hanged for it. The evidence against her was:\n\" 1. That she was found to have such a malignant touch, as many persons, men, women, and children, whom she stroked or touched with any affection or displeasure, or etc. [sic], were taken with deafness, or vomiting, or other violent pains or sickness. \"\n\n\" 2. She practising physic, and her medicines being such things as, by her own confession, were harmless, — as anise-seed, liquors, etc., — yet had extraordinary violent effects. \"\n\n\" 3. She would use to tell such as would not make use of her physic, that they would never be healed; and accordingly their diseases and hurts continued, with relapse against the ordinary course, and beyond the apprehension of all physicians and surgeons. \"\n\n\" 4. Some things which she foretold came to pass accordingly; other things she would tell of, as secret speeches, etc., which she had no ordinary means to come to the knowledge of. \"\n\n\" 5. She had, upon search, an apparent teat ... as fresh as if it had been newly sucked; and after it had been scanned, upon a forced search, that was withered, and another began on the opposite side. \"\n\n\" 6. In the prison, in the clear day-light, there was seen in her arms, she sitting on the floor, and her clothes up, etc., a little child, which ran from her into another room, and the officer following it, it was vanished. The like child was seen in two other places to which she had relation; and one maid that saw it, fell sick upon it, and was cured by the said Margaret, who used means to be employed to that end. Her behavior at her trial was very intemperate, lying notoriously, and railing upon the jury and witnesses, etc., and in the like distemper she died. The same day and hour she was executed, there was a very great tempest at Connecticut, which blew down many trees, etc.\" \"\n\nJohn Hale, who was born in Charlestown, was 12 years old when he, along with other neighbors of Jones, visited her in prison on the day of her execution. He said in his writing, \"Modest Inquiry\" p. 17, that part of the reason for the charges being brought upon the condemned woman was that after she had quarreled with some neighbors, \"some mischief befell\" some of their cattle.\n\nAs an adult and a minister, Hale was an active participant in the bringing of charges in the Salem witch trials, but had afterwards had a change of heart. Accusations of witchcraft against Rev. Hale's wife helped to bring an end to the proceedings. The accusers, in aiming at such characters, overestimated their power; and the tide began to turn against them. But what finally broke the spell by which they had held the minds of the whole colony in bondage was their accusation, in October, of Mrs. Hale, the wife of the minister of the First Church in Beverly. Her genuine and distinguished virtues had won for her a reputation, and secured in the hearts of the people a confidence, which superstition itself could not sully nor shake. Mr. Hale had been active in all the previous proceedings; but he knew the innocence and piety of his wife, and he stood forth between her and the storm he had helped to raise: although he had driven it on while others were its victims, he turned and- resisted it when it burst in upon his own dwelling.\n\nAfter Jones was put to death, her husband, William, who had been released from prison, tried to leave the colony on the ship, \"Welcome\", however the ship, which had a heavy load of cargo, had trouble keeping its balance in fair weather. When it was realized that the husband of a condemned witch was on board and he had quarreled with the captain, William was arrested and put back in prison. Upon his arrest, it was claimed, the ship immediately righted itself.\n\nHistorian Clarence F. Jewett included a list of other people executed in New England in \"The Memorial History of Boston: Including Suffolk County, Massachusetts 1630–1880\" (Ticknor and Company, 1881). He wrote, The following is the list of the twelve persons who were executed for witchcraft in New England before 1692, when twenty other persons were executed at Salem, whose names are well known. It is possible that the list is not complete ; but I have included all of which I have any knowledge, and with such details as to names and dates as could be ascertained : —\n1647, — \"Woman of Windsor\", Connecticut (name unknown) [later identified as Alice Young], at Hartford. \n1648, — Margaret Jones, of Charlestown, at Boston.\n1648,— Mary Johnson, at Hartford.\n1650? — Henry Lake's wife, of Dorchester.\n1650?—Mrs. Kendall, of Cambridge.\n1651, — Mary Parsons, of Springfield, at Boston.\n1651, — Goodwife Bassett, at Fairfield, Conn.\n1653, — Goodwife Knap, at Hartford.\n1656, — Ann Hibbins, at Boston.\n1662, — Goodman Greensmith, at Hartford.\n1662,— Goodwife Greensmith, at Hartford.\n1688,— Goody Glover, at Boston.\" \n\nIt should be noted that Mary (Bliss) Parsons of Springfield (and later Northampton) was accused of witchcraft, acquitted of the crime and not executed. But Mary (Lewis) Parsons of Springfield (apparently not a direct relation to the other Mary Parsons) was convicted of infanticide and sentenced to hang; there is no record of her execution, and it is believed that she died in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "39759840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39759840", "title": "Margaret Schlauch", "text": "Margaret Schlauch\n\nMargaret Schlauch (September 25, 1898 – July 19, 1986) was a scholar of medieval studies at New York University and later, after she left the United States for political reasons in 1951, at the University of Warsaw, where she headed the departments of English and General Linguistics. Her work covered many topics but included focuses on Chaucer, Anglo-Saxon, and Old Norse literature.\n\nSchlauch was born in Philadelphia; her father was a German-born professor of mathematics. She earned a bachelor's degree from Barnard College in 1918 and Master's and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia University in 1919 and 1927; in 1923–24, she studied at the University of Munich on a fellowship from the American Association of University Women. During her graduate studies she taught English at Theodore Roosevelt High School in New York.\n\nFrom 1924 to 1950, Schlauch was a faculty member in the English Department at Washington Square College (the then Greenwich Village undergraduate division) of New York University. She became an assistant professor in 1927, associate professor in 1931, and full professor in 1940, the first woman to be appointed a full professor at the university. She spent a summer as a visiting faculty member in German at the University of Chicago and another in English at Johns Hopkins University, and was a Guggenheim fellow in German and Scandinavian literature in 1929–30. During World War II, she assisted in the preparation of a course in Icelandic for the War Department, and at one point taught mathematics.\n\nEarly in 1951, in response to a subpoena from the House Un-American Activities Committee, Schlauch left the United States for Poland, writing an explanatory letter to the chair of the English Department at New York University, Oscar Cargill, in which she stated that she had been \"so very happy at N.Y.U.!\" The university announced her resignation to the \"New York Times\", where it was the subject of a \"long, above-the-fold article\". The story was picked up by the Associated Press.\n\nShe taught at the University of Warsaw from 1951 until retiring in 1965. From 1954 until her retirement, she was head of the Department of English, and in 1954–56, she also headed the Department of General Linguistics. She was founder president of the Polish-Icelandic Cultural Society, which came into being largely at her suggestion on May 13, 1959. She was elected a corresponding member of the Polish Academy of Sciences in 1961 and in 1966 honored with a festschrift to which prominent scholars in medieval studies and linguistics from many countries contributed. She became a citizen of Poland and other than visits to the United States to lecture and as a visiting professor at Vassar College and the University of Connecticut, remained abroad; she spent many summers researching in the British Museum. She was \"lionized\" in Poland, where her generosity included subscribing to foreign journals that the university library could not afford and donating them, as well as sharing her personal library with students. After her death, a symposium was held in her honor by the Modern Philology Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences, and in May 2002, a Schlauch Symposium was held at the Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań.\n\nSchlauch was a committed Marxist, although she denied ever having been in the Communist Party when investigated in 1941 by the Rapp-Coudert Committee as part of its examination of Communism in New York educational institutions. An obituary by a former student, Annette Rubinstein, described her as \"the dynamic center of an informal Marxist study group\" in New York, and she became chair of the Greenwich Village American Labor Party. She also wrote for the Marxist periodical \"Science & Society\", of which she was a founding editor, praising the Soviet Union and applying Marxist principles to \"literary, historical, and linguistic study\" in a much more doctrinaire manner than in her academic publications. In the 1930s, she was chairman of the Association of University Teachers and of the New York Teachers Anti-War Committee. She was always a feminist and a champion of the rights of the oppressed. In 1935, she wrote a 30-page pamphlet, \"Who Are the Aryans?\", a \"sane and clear\" exposition of the wrongness of Nazi racial theory. She joined the Polish United Workers' Party shortly after her arrival, and letters she wrote late in her life express admiration for the general in power under martial law.\n\nSchlauch's sister Helen was married to Leopold Infeld, a Polish-born physicist who was a naturalized Canadian citizen but had defected to Poland in 1949 on suspicion of spying; it has been suggested that joining them influenced her decision to leave the U.S., but she appears to have been lonely and isolated in Poland at first; according to Rubinstein's obituary, she received no invitations from colleagues for five years, although she eventually became as popular as she had been at New York University.\n\nShe never married. After what appears to have been a stroke in 1974, she became increasingly housebound and in need of helpers. She died in Warsaw on July 19, 1986; her books were sold and her papers destroyed by the next tenants of her apartment.\n\n\nSchlauch published prolifically (15 books, approximately 100 articles and 40 reviews) and on a wide range of topics. The book based on her doctoral dissertation on the analogs of Chaucer's \"Man of Law's Tale\", \"Chaucer's Constance and Accused Queens\", has been reprinted and is still frequently cited. It has been called her \"most substantial feminist work\". The following year she published \"Medieval Literature, A Book of Translations\", which Francis P. Magoun, Jr. found \"well executed\" with much \"genuine artistry\", although he objected on thematic and stylistic grounds to the choice of Icelandic items and wanted more informative introductions. She is widely known for \"The Gift of Language\" (originally published in 1942 as \"The Gift of Tongues\"), a layperson's introduction to linguistics; a reviewer wrote: \"It is rarely that one comes across an academic treatise so lively, so easy to read, and so full of meat and meaning\". During her Guggenheim year, she studied the relationships between the Icelandic sagas, in particular the legendary sagas, and Classical and other medieval literature, which became a major focus of her later work. In 1934 she published \"Romance in Iceland\", and a number of her articles are on saga parallels. Her work on the sagas received wide approval, and another important contribution by her was on the literary and social context of medieval English works, above all in \"English Medieval Literature and Its Social Foundations\", but she also published general surveys and translations and wrote on \"James Joyce, Sherwood Anderson, Emily Dickinson, Hollywood slang, folklore topics, the antecedents of the English novel, and the history of the English language.\" \"Antecedents of the English Novel, 1400–1600; from Chaucer to Deloney\" was published in 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4562133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4562133", "title": "Middle East Quarterly", "text": "Middle East Quarterly\n\nMiddle East Quarterly (MEQ) is a quarterly journal, a publication of the think tank Middle East Forum (MEF) founded by Daniel Pipes in 1994. It is devoted to subjects relating to the Middle East and Islam and analyzes the region \"explicitly from the viewpoint of American interests\". From its inception, content in the MEQ was not peer-reviewed because its editors felt that most experts in the field were insufficiently devoted to advancing American interests. In 2009, the editors of the MEQ stated that it would institute peer review, utilizing expert reviewers whom the editors deemed \"not hostile to the United States and its allies\".\n\nMiddle East Quarterly's publisher, the Philadelphia-based Middle East Forum, is a think tank founded in 1990 by historian and columnist Daniel Pipes, who also serves as its director. The Forum founded the \"Middle East Quarterly\" in 1994.\n\nAccording to the Middle East Forum, the \"Middle East Quarterly\" deals with \"Middle Eastern affairs\". It states that:\n\"[P]olicy-makers, opinion-makers, academics, and journalists\" consult it \"for in-depth analysis of the rapidly-changing landscape of the world's most volatile region\" and that it publishes \"groundbreaking studies, exclusive interviews, insightful commentary, and hard-hitting reviews that tackle the entire range of contemporary concerns – from politics to economics to culture, across a region that stretches from Morocco to Afghanistan.\"\n\nOne of its goals was also to provide a voice to academics who felt that the mainstream academic press was not giving voice to their views on Islam. Until 2009, it did no peer review, leaving nearly all publishing decisions with its editors. The MEQ website explained then that \"The Quarterly has become an outlet of choice for policy practitioners and senior scholars secure in their tenure and displeased with the ideological rigidity of the peer-reviewed journals.\" According to its founder Daniel Pipes, \"In the halls of academe, the Quarterly delivers a welcome balance to the many materials that relentlessly attack the United States and Israel.\"\n\nEdited by Efraim Karsh, it is published in print, and all but the current issue are also available as full texts from the website of the Middle East Forum, which does provide links to full texts of some selected current articles. In 2009, MEQ introduced peer review both to improve the quality of articles and \"to give junior faculty an opportunity, while building their careers, to express their views freely.\"\n\nA full list of contributors can be found at the website.\n\n\"From the organization's website\": \n\nFrom the organization's website:\n\n\nJuan Cole, professor of Middle Eastern history at the University of Michigan, accused the Middle East Quarterly of making \"scurrilous attacks on people\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35314871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35314871", "title": "Mirrors in Mesoamerican culture", "text": "Mirrors in Mesoamerican culture\n\nThe use of mirrors in Mesoamerican culture was associated with the idea that they served as portals to a realm that could be seen but not interacted with. Mirrors in pre-Columbian Mesoamerica were fashioned from stone and served a number of uses, from the decorative to the divinatory. An ancient tradition among many Mesoamerican cultures was the practice of divination using the surface of a bowl of water as a mirror. At the time of the Spanish conquest this form of divination was still practiced among the Maya, Aztecs and Purépecha. In Mesoamerican art, mirrors are frequently associated with pools of liquid; this liquid was likely to have been water.\n\nEarly mirrors were fashioned from single pieces of iron ore, polished to produce a highly reflective surface. By the Classic period, mosaic mirrors were being produced from a variety of ores, allowing for the construction of larger mirrors. Mosaic pyrite mirrors were crafted across large parts of Mesoamerica in the Classic period, particularly at Teotihuacan and throughout the Maya region. Pyrite degrades with time to leave little more than a stain on the mirror back by the time it is excavated. This has led to the frequent misidentification of pyrite mirror backs as paint palettes, painted discs or pot lids. By the Postclassic period obsidian mirrors became increasingly common.\n\nFar from being a personal cosmetic accessory, mirrors in Mesoamerica were divinatory aids and also formed a part of elite status costume. Mirrors were viewed as metaphors for sacred caves and as conduits for supernatural forces; they were associated with fiery hearths and pools of water because of their bright surfaces. Mirrors were also closely associated with the sun. Mirrors were often used in pre-Columbian Mexico to reveal a person's destiny through divination. Among the Maya of the Classic period mirrors were a means of communication with otherworld entities, as depicted in scenes painted on ceramic vessels. Otherworld mirrors were believed to be the far side of earthly mirrors, and were owned and used by deities and other supernatural beings. In central Mexico in the Postclassic period, the world was metaphorically conceived as a huge circular mirror.\n\nMirrors were associated with fire in Mesoamerica, and representations of mirrors could take the form of flowers and be combined with representations of butterflies. Both butterflies and flowers were associated with fire in central Mexico from the Classic to Postclassic periods, with butterflies representing flames. The Olmecs of the Preclassic period fashioned concave mirrors that were capable of lighting fires.\n\nMirrors were also associated with water; an Early Classic mirror in the style of Teotihuacan was excavated at distant Guácimo in Costa Rica. It included Teotihuacan imagery that was a stylised convention for representing bodies of water. Water imagery continued to be associated with mirrors in central Mexico right up to Aztec times. These representations of water-associated mirrors in Mesoamerican art apparently use the mirror to symbolise the surface of a pool of water. During the Classic Period mirrors were placed in bowls to symbolically represent bowls of water; examples are known from Teotihuacan and throughout the Maya area. Water-filled bowls have been used as mirrors for divinatory purposes right up to modern times in Mesoamerica and the American southwest. An incense burner from Early Classic Escuintla on the Guatemalan Pacific slope combines butterfly and water imagery. The mirror has flanking ears representing the wings of the butterfly that is rising from a water-filled bowl.\n\nA painted mural from Teotihuacan, now in the De Young Museum in San Francisco, has a representation of a mirror containing a glyph representing a piece of jade jewellery. Such jade pendants are depicted frequently in Teotihuacan art falling in streams. In the Maya region jade beads were frequently placed alongside mirrors in burials and offerings in the Classic and Postclassic periods. Although jade may have been placed alongside mirrors due to the high value of both to their Mesoamerican owners, it is equally likely that the association of jade with mirrors is due to jade being used in divinatory practices. Like mirrors, jade beads were used for scrying and were invested with supernatural powers. Jade also had an association with water.\n\nRepresentations of mirrors in art from Classic period Teotihuacan and Guatemala's Pacific coastal region depict the mirror face using a glyph in the form of a reptile's eye, the meaning of which is not clear. The ringed eyes of the central Mexican rain god Tlaloc may have represented mirrors from representations at Teotihuacan in the Classic period right through to the Aztecs at the time of Spanish contact. In the \"Historia General de las Cosas de Nueva España\", the Nahuatl word \"tezcactl\" is used to refer to both the eye and mirrors. This association also existed among the Maya, the Tzotzil Maya phrase \"nen sat\" is used for the pupil or eye and means literally \"mirror of the face\" or \"mirror of the eye\". This association of mirrors with eyes may derive from the highly reflective eyes of the jaguar. Mirror stones were used to represent the eyes in sculptures from many Mesoamerican cultures.\n\nFrom the Classic period mirrors began to be associated with spider webs, perhaps due to the network of lines on the surface of mosaic mirrors that developed at that time. Imagery associating mirrors with spiders and their webs is relatively frequently encountered at Teotihuacan. The association of mirrors with spiders continued right up to the Postclassic and beyond, with a polished gold Mixtec mirror back taking the form of a spider. The modern Huichol still associate mirrors with spider webs.\n\nMirrors have been identified with the sun in Mesoamerica since the Preclassic period, when the Olmecs associated the two. The Maya maintained the same association throughout the Classic period, and the relationship between mirrors and the sun has persisted into modern times, with the Sierra Totonac of Mexico referring to the sun as \"Espejo Sol\", \"Mirror Sun\". In the Postclassic period, the turquoise mirrors of the Toltecs and Aztecs represented the sun.\n\nMirrors have been found in almost every part of the Maya region, mostly in burials and ritual caches. They have been dated to all periods of Maya civilization from the Middle Preclassic (around 600 BC) right up to the Spanish conquest in the early 1520s. They reached the height of their production and use in the Maya highlands during the Early Classic, while most mirrors from the Maya lowlands date to the Late Classic. Maya mirrors were produced by exceptionally skilled artisans and were highly valued by the Maya elite. Production was likely to have been so specialised that they were made by high-status artisans dedicated to their manufacture, who may have been members of the aristocracy or even royalty. Although hundreds of mirrors have been excavated in the Maya area, comparatively few mosaic mirrors have been recovered from lowland Maya sites. Large quantities of mirrors have been recovered from some highland sites, such as Kaminaljuyu and Nebaj in the Guatemalan Highlands. The high concentration of mirrors in a few highland sites probably indicates centres of production and distribution into the trade network. It is likely that they were manufactured in the highlands and then were traded as finished objects to the Maya lowlands.\n\nMost Maya mirrors were circular with occasional oval and square examples; they range in size from across while their thickness ranged from . It is likely that the outline of Maya mirrors was initially drawn with an instrument like a compass since many examples are almost perfectly circular. Most Maya mirrors were backed with slate and a few were backed with sandstone or ceramic, some may have been backed with shell. Most mirror backs were plain but a few bear ornately sculpted designs or hieroglyphic text. Some mirrors were framed with wood or bone, or a combination of the two, although these materials are poorly preserved in the archaeological record. Some mirrors bear traces of stucco, which was probably painted, or cinnabar, a red mineral that is often found in association with elite burials in the Maya area. A mirror with hieroglyphic text on the back was excavated from Río Azul in the far north of the Petén Basin of Guatemala. Another mirror from Petén, found at Topoxte, has a circular band of text on the back that includes the phrase \"u-nen\", meaning \"his mirror\". Mirrors with Maya glyphs on the back have been found as far away as Costa Rica, more than from the Maya heartland. Polygonal mirror pieces were glued to the backing with an unknown adhesive; on the whole the iron ore polygons have not survived and have deteriorated to a rust-like residue coating the backing. In some cases ridged deposits of adhesive outline the shape of the vanished polygonal mosaic pieces.\n\nMirrors excavated from Maya tombs have been found placed near the head, the chest, the small of the back, the groin and the feet of the deceased. A few were placed on the floor of the tomb at some distance from the human remains. In Maya art, mirrors appear to be depicted as hand-held objects; sometimes they are depicted mounted on stands or held by dwarfs or servants in front of elite Maya individuals. Advances in the decipherment of Maya script have revealed the central function of mirrors as instruments for ritual scrying. This ritual scrying was the continuation of an ancient divinatory tradition with its ultimate origins in Preclassic shamanistic practices that had been formalised by the Maya priesthood. Mirrors were of considerable value within Maya society and their use was restricted to the elite.\n\nThe earliest stone mirrors in Mesoamerica pre-date the rise of the Olmec civilization, with examples being dated as far back as the middle of the 2nd millennium BC. From early in Mesoamerica's history, the use of iron ore mirrors was associated with a hereditary elite class. At Paso de la Amada, a Mokaya site in the Soconusco region of southern Chiapas, iron ore mirrors were excavated that have been dated to between 1400 and 1100 BC. A Mokaya tomb dating to the earlier part of this period was excavated at the Olmec enclave of Cantón Corralito. The tomb contained the remains of an elite status woman accompanied by an adult male and a child; the woman had a large flat iron ore mirror on her chest. At present, it is not known if the remains are those of local Mokoya or of Olmecs from the Gulf coast. About the same time at Tlapacoya in the Valley of Mexico, the Tlatilco culture was using imported mirrors crafted from jade. During the Early and Middle Preclassic periods (approximately 1500 to 500 BC) the Olmecs fashioned mirrors from iron ore, including minerals such as hematite, ilmenite and magnetite. The Olmecs preferred to manufacture concave mirrors; this gave the mirror the properties of reflecting an inverted and reversed image. Larger concave mirrors could be used to light fires. These early mirrors were manufactured from single pieces of stone and were therefore of small size, rarely exceeding across. Mirrors were manufactured by using sand or some other abrasive material such as hematite powder to polish the iron ore until it produced a highly reflective surface.\n\nIn the Valley of Oaxaca, only San José Mogote has produced evidence of mirror production dating as far back as the Preclassic. Mirrors produced at San José Mogote were distributed to relatively distant places such as Etlatongo and the Olmec city of San Lorenzo. The mirrors from San José Mogote that were excavated at San Lorenzo have been dated to between 1000 and 750 BC. Towards the end of this period, mirror production at San José declined and halted altogether.\n\nThe incomplete slate back of the earliest known Maya mirror was excavated from Cahal Pech in Belize; it was dated to around 600 BC, in the Middle Preclassic.\n\nThe first Olmec mirrors were found during archaeological excavations in the early 1940s. A mirror and a mirror fragment were discovered in 1942 during excavations at La Venta directed by Matthew W. Stirling, however these were not recognised as being mirrors. In 1943 a complete mirror was found and was recognised for what it was. Further finds followed at La Venta, including the excavation of two especially good quality mirrors from offerings in 1945.\n\nSeveral dozen Olmec iron ore mirrors are known but only a few of these have been recovered in secure archaeological excavations. At the Olmec site of Las Bocas in Puebla, a particularly fine mosaic mirror was recovered that was dated to around 1000 BC. By the Middle Preclassic period the production of high status stone artefacts, including mirrors, was probably already being carried out by specialist artisans. An Olmec mining colony has been identified in the Cintalapa valley. Among items excavated were partially worked blocks of ilmenite and mangnetite and a fragment of mirror, together with tools and San Lorenzo style ceramics. These remains date to around 950 BC. Concave Olmec mirrors were fashioned from a single pied of iron ore. The front, with the mirror face, was concave with a highly polished lens. The bevelled edge of the mirror was convex and the rear and sides of the mirror were roughly sawn or ground down, although there are occasional exceptions. One Olmec mirror had a back that was ground smooth and highly polished. Concave mirrors are depicted in Olmec art, where they are frequently represented as pectorals worn on the chest. They can be divided into two groups; those that have a single drilled hole near the top and those that have at least two drilled holes at the sides. The latter tend to be larger than the former. Most of the mirror stones have been sawn from a larger piece of rock and fashioned into an oval shape; occasionally it is possible to distinguish the original form of the parent stone. The curve of each mirror is unique and tailored to the stone from which it is worked, and none possesses perfect symmetry; this appears to be deliberate. Although the elliptical mirrors are parabolic, the circular mirrors have a spherical concavity. The circular mirrors are effective at lighting fires while the parabolic mirrors are not, although they may have been used to produce smoke. Of four large mirrors found at Arrroyo Pesquero in Veracruz, two were circular and were excellent sources of ignition.\n\nTomb A at La Venta is one of the oldest formal tombs in Mesoamerica, dating to about 600 BC. Among the funerary offerings of this elite burial was a highly polished magnetite mirror; it also contained the figurine of a seated female who wears an obsidian mirror on her chest. A total of seven concave mirrors were excavated from Complex A at La Venta; they were fashioned from hematite, ilmenite and magnetite. These are counted as among the most outstanding examples of iron ore workmanship that the Olmecs produced. Their concave fronts are as precisely ground as modern optical lenses, although their backs were left rough and uneven. The concave lenses of these mirrors were found to form parabolic reflectors. The borders of each of the La Venta mirrors formed a circle or an ellipse, and they usually had different focal lengths for each axis. The three iron ores used are the best available minerals to produce durable highly reflective mirrors with a non-tarnishing metallic surface. All of these mirrors had drilled holes near their edges and were probably worn as chest ornaments since many Olmec figurines depict such mirrors being worn. The concave lenses of some of these iron ore mirrors are able to project \"camera lucida\" images onto a flat surface and can also be used to light fires. The grinding of the concave surface was done manually, probably using powdered iron ore as an abrasive. Similar mirrors were not only found at San Lorenzo but also at Río Pesquero and as far as Guerrero on the Pacific Coast of southwestern Mexico. The Olmecs never used iron pyrite in their concave mirrors, presumably because it degrades with time. Mirrors were among the ritual paraphernalia used by Olmec priests, shamans and rulers; the Olmecs closely identified mirrors with the sun.\n\nBy the Classic period (c.AD 250–900) iron pyrite was the mineral of choice for fashioning mirrors. Instead of crafting the mirror from a single piece of pyrite, pre-cut pieces of pyrite would be fixed to a piece of slate, forming a mosaic mirror fashioned from finely fitted pieces. The slate was often finely sculpted and circular in shape; these mirrors could be much larger than earlier mirrors and mosaic mirrors represented in Mesoamerican art suggest that they may have reached sizes of over . Mosaic mirrors using iron pyrite are not well preserved in the archaeological record due to the instability of the mineral, which rapidly oxidises. Usually these mirrors survive only as the slate backing with a red or yellow stain where the mirror was fitted. This has led to the frequent misidentification of mirror backs as paint palettes, painted discs or pot lids. During the Classic period circular pyrite mirrors were worn over the small of the back by Mesoamerican nobles and they have been found thus positioned in burials dating to the Early Classic (c.AD 250–600) at the great metropolis of Teotihuacan in the Valley of Mexico and at the Maya city of Kaminaljuyu in the Valley of Guatemala. Ceramic incense burner figurines from the Escuintla region of Pacific Guatemala frequently depict the wearing of mirrors upon the chest. The use of mosaic mirrors allowed for a much larger diameter, and mirrors were crafted that were too big to be worn as part of the costume; these mirrors were placed on temple altars and were sometimes held in the arms during rituals. Such mirrors may have measured up to across.\n\nAt the Classic period Zapotec city of Monte Albán in Oaxaca a cache was excavated that contained sixteen figures. Of these, three were holding large discs that have been identified as representations of mirrors.\n\nMirrors are frequently represented in the iconography of the great city of Teotihuacan in central Mexico. Mirrors in Classic period Teotihuacan, as elsewhere in Mesoamerica, where associated with a corpus of spiritual beliefs, some of which have been passed down to the modern period. Mirrors were fashioned from three different types of stone at Teotihuacan, these were mica, obsidian and iron pyrite. Circular mirrors at Teotihuacan were associated symbolically with eyes and faces, flowers and shields; they are quite frequently encountered during excavations in the ruined city. Iron pyrite mosaic mirrors were fashioned by fixing pieces of pyrite together on a thin disc that was usually crafted from slate. The mirror backing slate was often perforated with two drilled holes and sometimes its reverse was intricately decorated. On the whole the recovery of mirrors from Teotihuacan has been poorly documented so their archaeological context is unclear.\n\nAt Teotihuacan the largest mirrors were worn on the back, mirrors were also frequently worn on belts. Mirrors worn as a part of costume frequently had cloth or feather tassels attached. These costume mirrors were forerunners of the Aztec \"tezcacuitlapilli\", which was a mirror worn on the lower part of the back. A number of mirrors were excavated from the Temple of the Feathered Serpent at Teotihuacan. Fifteen individuals were interred with back mirrors placed at the small of the back in Burial 190 alone. Mirrors were additionally worn upon the chest and the representation of chest mirrors upon ceramic figurines is very common. Additionally, circular mirrors were frequently worn as part of a headdress, usually occupying a central position.\nTeotihuacan had strong contacts with the distant Maya city of Kaminaljuyu, which covered an area now enveloped by modern Guatemala City. A large quantity of circular pyrite mirrors were excavated from Kaminaljuyu, although their purpose was not recognised by the excavators due to the complete oxidation of the reflective surface. A number of the mirror backs were decorated with scenes in a pure Teotihuacan style. In Teotihuacan art back mirrors are often represented with prominent flares similar to earspools, and a mirror found at Kaminaljuyu had two such jade earspools closely associated with it, although their original position was difficult to determine due to the deterioration of the pyrite mirror face, it is likely they were attached to it in the same way as represented in Teotihuacan art. On some mirrors, these spools were placed near the rim; there are examples both in art and from excavation at Kaminaljuyu, of jade spools being placed in the centre of the mirror.\n\nCircular elements adorned with a feathered border detail are extremely common in the iconography of Teotihuacan and are found in diverse mediums such as ceramics, monumental sculpture, figurines and murals. The feathers are generally raised above the central disc and radiate from the centre. Such discs also appear as costume elements and some of the better preserved ceramic copies of these elements have a central disc crafted from reflective mica. Archaeologist Karl Taube has identified these elements as representations of mirrors in Teotihuacan art. Teotihuacan had a strong influence in the Maya area, and Teotihaucan mirror imagery appears particularly on Early Classic Maya art that uses the Teotihuacan style. A number of stone beads from the Balsas River Valley in Guerrero were modelled after Teotihuacan mirrors and included small inlaid pieces of iron pyrite to represent the face of the mirror.\n\nMirrors had a great many symbolic associations at Teotihuacan; they could represent human eyes, faces, caves, passageways, spider webs, flowers, shields, the sun, a fiery hearth or the world as a whole. The association of the human eye with mirrors was so strong that stylised eyes were frequently used in Teotihuacan art as a substitute for the face of a mirror. Mirrors could also be replaced by an entire face, rather than just an eye, reflecting widespread practice in Mesoamerica. Sometimes mirrors were fashioned so the rim resembled petals of a flower, with the mirror face the centre. In art, representations of butterflies were sometimes positioned as if they were feeding from the mirror-flower. Sometimes metaphors could be combined in imagery, so that the mirror-flower was worked in such a way as to also resemble a face. Both flowers and butterflies were associated with fire at Teotihuacan, with butterflies symbolising flames. At the same time, the face of the mirror symbolised fire. One mirror in the Teotihuacan style has a representation of a goddess on the back that is flanked by pairs of burning torches; fire signs cover her body.\n\nA Teotihuacan-style mirror excavated in Costa Rica was decorated with iconography that, at Teotihuacan, symbolically represented bodies of water. The association of mirrors with water in central Mexican art persisted right up to Aztec times. In Teotihuacan art mirrors were relatively frequently shown standing upright in bowls, symbolising bowls of shining water. The composite surface of circular pyrite mosaic mirrors led to their association with spider webs. A scene depicted at Teotihuacan shows a mirror covered with a net and flanked by a waterlily and a cotton plant, symbolising water and weaving respectively. The spider webs on mirrors can sometimes be realistically represented in Teotihuacan art, sometimes including a spider in the design. This also fed back into imagery of spider webs themselves, which could be represented by the depiction of a mirror. A mural at the Tetitla compound of Teotihuacan depicts a spider-woman deity standing in a mirror-bowl.\n\nMirrors were so closely associated with shields at Teotihuacan that it is difficult to distinguish the two in Teotihuacan art. Both shields and mirrors were circular with a raised rim decorated with feathers. Teotihuacan shields frequently had central tassels that resembled the central spool found on some Teotihuacan mirrors. Mirrors worn on the back and the chest could have served a dual protective function, deflecting physical blows as well as supernatural attacks. The mirror itself may have symbolised war in Teotihuacan; the combination of its association with fire and water may have been a precursor of the Aztec \"atl-tlachinolli\", Nahuatl for \"water-fire\", the phrase that the Aztecs used for war.\n\nAmong the Maya of the Classic period mirrors were fashioned from solid pieces of hematite or mosaics of iron pyrite. They tended to be larger than earlier Olmec mirrors and were mounted on a slate backing that was often drilled with holes, indicating that they were attached to another object; either mounted on a wooden frame or worn with clothing. Hundreds of such mirrors have been recovered from archaeological sites in the Maya region. Such mirrors have been excavated from royal burials throughout the Maya area, with the greatest quantity of mirrors being recovered from Altun Ha in Belize. In Piedras Negras, on the Guatemalan side of the Usumacinta River, a sizeable iron pyrite mirror was set at an angle within the tomb of king K'inich Yo'nal Ahk II in such a way that the deceased king would theoretically be able to view himself laid out in his tomb. The tomb of his successor, Ruler 4, also contained a mirror; it bore the image of an important war captive. At Bonampak in Chiapas, a mirror was interred at the feet of the deceased. In all these cases it is likely that the mirror was installed in the tomb in order to open a supernatural location within it. Among the Classic Maya, mirrors were considered to be used jointly by gods and mortals, as evidenced by scenes painted on polychrome ceramic vases.\n\nMirror production continued in Belize during the Classic period. At Pacbitun in Belize, near to where the earliest known Maya slate mirror back was found, considerable evidence was found of Late Classic slate working. Archaeological investigation of one of the rapidly abandoned buildings of the Late Classic royal palace at Aguateca in the Petexbatún region produced 300 pyrite and indicates the likely presence of a mirror workshop within the royal court. The structure in question was apparently the residence of an elite status courtier. Several Early Classic mirrors from Copán in Honduras had stuccoed backs that were painted with motifs in the style of distant Teotihuacan. A mirror back from Kaminaljuyu sculpted with an ornate volute design apparently derived from the Classic period culture of Veracruz on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. Pyrite mirrors at Kaminaljuyu were placed upon the small of the back of two individuals in Early Classic tomb B-1. The mirrors were placed with the reflective surface facing up, even though one of them had a finely sculpted back in the Veracruz style, demonstrating that it was the mirror surface itself that was the display surface even when the back was a work of art in itself. Large mirrors were also placed upon the chest of the deceased at Kaminaljuyu. A broken half of an Early Classic mirror from Zaculeu in the Guatemalan Highlands had a border formed by six curved iron pyrite plates, very similar to representations of mirrors in Teotihuacan art.\nPyrite mirrors from Nebaj and Zaculeu were found placed in Early Classic censers, suggesting the same association between mirrors and fire as was found at Teotihuacan. Two Early Classic style Maya mirrors were traded as far away as Costa Rica.\n\nMaya mirrors and their use are depicted on Classic Maya polychrome ceramics, where pictorial vases frequently depict scenes from courtly life. One vase depicts an anthropomorphic dog staring into the depths of a vase, behind the vase an anthropomorphic monkey dances while staring into a mirror held up in one hand. Another vase has a scene involving a group of elderly gods; one of these is applying makeup while using a mirror held up to his face by a female helper. This scene is unlikely to represent the application of cosmetics in a modern sense, since the reflection provided by an iron ore mosaic mirror was unlikely to be of great use due to the distorted image it presented. Instead, the deity is likely to be ritually transforming himself into the dark face of the mirror by applying dark paint. An important vase from Chama near Nebaj, in the highlands, shows a Maya lord communicating with a rabbit spirit through a mirror, demonstrating the mirror's importance as a portal between worlds. The rabbit spirit is talking to the lord, with its speech scroll passing directly over the mirror. These scenes appear to represent what the Maya believed was happening on the other side of the surface of their mirrors. Although mirrors are represented on ceramics, mirrors rarely appear on publicly visible art, such as Maya stelae or openly visible Maya architecture.\n\nTikal Stela 31 includes mirror imagery in the Teotihuacan warrior garb of king Yax Nuun Ayiin depicted on its sides. Here the king wears a back mirror; the left hand side of the stela displays the face of the mirror and its rim while the right hand side shows the back of the mirror with lines near the edge of the mirror's disk that probably represent cord threaded through drilled holes to bind it to the king's costume. This stela was erected in AD 445. A back mirror is represented on Late Classic Stela 11 from Yaxchilan on the Mexican bank of the Usumacinta River. In this representation the mirror has a central spool with attached tassel similar to Early Classic mirrors and their representations from Teotihuacan and Kaminaljuyu. Acanceh is an Early Classic Maya site in Yucatán that also displays the influence of Teotihuacan. Five stucco figures at the site wear back mirrors in the Teotihuacan style.\n\nThe Classic period Maya god K'awiil was closely associated with mirrors. This deity was represented with one leg in the form of a serpent and a mirror on the forehead that was penetrated by an axe or celt and emitted either flames or smoke. K'awiil was a deity who was associated with Maya divine kingship and the royal lineage and bears attributes that were later inherited by the Aztec Tezcatlipoca, or \"Smoking Mirror\". Four Late Classic sculptures of K'awiil were excavated from Burial 195 at Tikal, in each the deity grasps a mirror in its outheld hands.\n\nIn the Postclassic period (c.AD 900–1521) mirrors continued to be worn over the back in Central Mexico; they were called \"tezcacuitlapilli\" in the Nahuatl language of the Aztecs. Metal mirrors appear in the Postclassic period; a gold mirror back in the form of a spider was excavated from Tomb 7 at Monte Alban in Oaxaca. This mirror was the product of Mixtec artisans.\n\nDuring the Early Postclassic (c.900–1200) the Toltec inhabitants of Tula in Central Mexico favoured a back mirror in the form of a central disc crafted from iron pyrite surrounded by representations of the Xiuhcoatl fire-serpent depicted with mosaicwork fashioned from turquoise. This form of Mesoamerican mirror was widely distributed during the Early Postclassic, with examples being reported from Chichen Itza in the northern Yucatán Peninsula and from Casas Grandes in Chihuahua. It is probable that these Toltec mirrors were identified as representations of the sun.\n\nThe atlante columns at Tula have representations of mirrors sculpted on their backs with four smoking serpents, one in each quadrant. The faces of the mirror are replaced with human faces on all of them, corresponding to the close association between faces and mirrors across Mesoamerica.\n\nIn the Late Postclassic (c.1200–1521) obsidian came to be the stone of preference for fashioning mirrors in Central Mexico. Broken pieces of raw obsidian were likely to have been used as mirrors as far back as the Preclassic but obsidian was not commonly ground and polished to manufacture mirrors until this period. Obsidian mirrors were used ritually to spiritually access the Aztec underworld and communicate with the realm of the dead. The name of the important Aztec deity Tezcatlipoca means \"Smoking Mirror\" and he was apparently the supernatural embodiment of a polished obsidian mirror. Depictions of the god frequently replace one of his feet with a smoking mirror and position another at the back of his head. Spanish chronicler Diego Durán described the image of Tezcatlipoca in the Great Temple of Tenochtitlan as being fashioned from polished obsidian and bearing a mirror of polished gold. The deity was supposed to observe everything that happened in the world through his mirror. The obsidian mirror was a metaphor for rulership and power among the Aztecs. Aztec rulers used a double-sided obsidian mirror to oversee their subjects; by gazing into one side the ruler could see how his subjects were comporting themselves and in the other side his subjects could see themselves reflected back. The gods were said to reveal their wishes to a ruler through the use of a mirror.\nAn Aztec hemispherical iron pyrite mirror in the collection of the Musée de l'Homme in Paris has a sculpted representation of the wind god Ehecatl on its convex back. Xipe Totec, \"Our Lord the Flayed One\", was the Aztec god of rebirth. One of his names was Tlatlauquitzezcatl, meaning \"Red Mirror\" or \"Mirror of Fiery Brightness\". The Aztec Emperor Moctezuma II was said to have seen the overthrow of his empire in a mirror; some fishermen caught a strange bird with a mirror on its forehead. They brought the bird before their emperor, who peered into the mirror and saw warriors mounted on deer. This purported incident was described by Franciscan friar Bernardino de Sahagún in his \"Historia de las cosas de Nueva España\" (\"History of the things of New Spain\"):\n\nAztec mirrors were originally held in wooden frames and were decorated with perishable ornaments such as feathers. Mirrors were among the gifts that Hernán Cortés sent back to the royal court in Spain and they became widely collected among the European aristocracy. One such mirror was acquired by Elizabeth I's court astrologer John Dee and is now in the collection of the British Museum.\nMirrors are represented in association with fire in two codices of the Borgia Group from central Mexico during the Aztec period (Codex Borgia and Codex Vaticanus B). The mirrors are placed with censers that serve as hearths for the fire goddess Chantico. Another scene from the Codex Borgia depicts a burning Toltec-style mirror used as a hearth for a sizeable pot. The mirror-hearth and pot are framed by four fire serpents. On another page of the same codex, the god of fire Xiuhtecuhtli is making fire from a mirror placed on the back of a fire serpent. An Aztec sculpture of a seated figure bears a smoking mirror on its back to represent the fifth sun. The iconography of the Aztec sun stone closely conforms to that of Postclassic turquoise mirrors; and is based upon the design of earlier Toltec pyrite mirrors.\n\nBowls of water were used as mirrors to examine the reflections of sick children. If the child's reflection was dark then his soul, or \"tonalli\" in Nahuatl, had escaped from his body. The association between mirrors and water was also present in Aztec art; page 17 of the Codex Borgia depicts Tezcatlipoca with a water-filled mirror placed at the back of his head instead of the more customary smoking mirror. The day sign for water, \"Atl\", is placed upon the mirror.\n\nHematite mirror fragments were excavated from the ruins of a ceremonial hall in the Kowoj Maya city of Zacpeten, dating from a time when the Kowoj were already in contact with the Spanish, since European artefacts were also recovered. One Postclassic mirror, and possibly more, from Lamanai in Belize was set in an unusual ceramic frame. Maya books dating from the time of first contact with the Spanish suggest that mirrors were worn on the back or shoulder.\n\nThe Huichol people of the Nayarit state of western Mexico have a considerable body of native lore regarding mirrors. They view mirrors as supernatural portals and link them symbolically with the sun, moon, eyes, faces and flowers, much like at Teotihuacan during the Classic period. The Huichol use circular glass mirrors for divination; in the Huichol language they are called \"nealika\", a word with a dual meaning of \"face\". In modern Huichol lore, the first \"nealika\" seeing-instrument was formed by a spider-web across a gourd bowl. In Huichol mythology, fire first appeared as a mirror. In modern Nahua tradition the sky is regarded as a living crystal mirror. The modern Sierra Totonac of Mexico associate the sun with mirrors, referring to it as \"Espejo Sol\", Spanish for \"Mirror Sun\".\n"}
{"id": "29183943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29183943", "title": "Mixteca Alta Formative Project", "text": "Mixteca Alta Formative Project\n\nMixteca Alta Formative Project (2003–present) is an archaeological project directed by Andrew Balkansky that focuses on the Mixtec of Oaxaca, Mexico. The project, which is funded by the National Science Foundation, the National Geographic Society, and the H. John Heinz III Fund, seeks to understand Mixtec origins and their transition to urbanism. Excavations are currently taking place at the ancient site of Tayata.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30542362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30542362", "title": "Mother tongue mirroring", "text": "Mother tongue mirroring\n\nMother tongue mirroring is the adaptation of word-for word translation in language education. The aim is to make foreign constructions salient and transparent to learners and, in many cases, spare them the technical jargon of grammatical analysis. It differs from literal translation and interlinear text as used in the past, since it takes the progress learners have made into account and only focuses upon one specific structure at a time. As a didactic device, it can only be used to the extent that it remains intelligible to the learner, unless it is combined with a normal idiomatic translation.\n\nCompounds can be broken down into their component parts to help learners understand their logic. For example, in German:\n\nSo ‘loanword’ is originally an exact copy of the German compound, or calque. The term ‘mother tongue mirroring’ can itself be regarded as a calque from German, because it is originally a translation of ‘muttersprachliche Spiegelung’.\n\nOver and above knowing what idioms actually mean in order to use them properly, learners want to know how they come to mean what they mean. In another example from German:\n\nIn French:\n\nIn Turkish:\n\nIn Armenian:\n\nIn German:\n\nMother tongue mirroring is most helpful for discovering the hidden anatomy of foreign grammars, especially of non-related languages. In Mandarin:\n\nUntranslatable particles such as Mandarin \"le\", meaning 'temporary change of state or situation', are simply inserted in the mirrored version:\n\nFor more Chinese constructions mirrored in English see Wu.\n\nMaking a structure transparent is not an aim in itself but serves the ultimate aim of enabling the learner, in Wilhelm von Humboldt’s words, to make infinite use of finite means (“von endlichen Mitteln unendlichen Gebrauch machen”). In foreign language teaching, this basic human capacity is captured by the generative principle.\n\nIn “The awful German language” Mark Twain humorously explained the difficulties of German syntax and morphology by mirroring long sentences in English. Although the main intent is satirical rather than didactic, Twain provides interesting insights into the workings of the German language.\n\nMirroring is amply used in commercial phrasebooks and computer courses and is a common device in scientific grammars of remote languages, but has been ignored by modern coursebook authors, along with other bilingual techniques such as the sandwich technique, presumably because of the mother tongue taboo, still prevailing in mainstream language teaching methodology.\nAccording to Butzkamm & Caldwell, mother tongue mirroring should be re-instated as a central teaching technique, especially when learners are not ready for grammatical analysis. It is analysis by analogy. It is foreign grammar in native words.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16070714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16070714", "title": "National Association of Scholars", "text": "National Association of Scholars\n\nThe National Association of Scholars (NAS) is an American non-profit politically conservative advocacy group, with a particular interest in education. It promotes free speech on college campuses for dissident political trends, a return to mid-20th-century curricular and scholarship norms, and an increase in conservative representation in faculty.\n\nOriginally called the Campus Coalition for Democracy, the National Association of Scholars was founded in 1987 by Herbert London and Stephen Balch with the goal of preserving the \"Western intellectual heritage\". Peter Wyatt Wood is the president. The advisory board of the NAS has included several notable conservatives, such as Jeane Kirkpatrick, a former United States Ambassador to the United Nations and adviser to Ronald Reagan. Chester Finn helped to form the conservative movement's education policies. Irving Kristol, founder of the neoconservative movement, \"characterized multiculturalism as 'a desperate strategy for coping with the educational deficiencies and associated social pathologies of young blacks.'\" According to the association, it has affiliates in 46 U.S. states, as well as in Guam and Canada.\n\nNAS has been funded extensively by politically conservative foundations, including the Sarah Scaife Foundation, the John M. Olin Foundation, the Bradley Foundation, the Castle Rock Foundation, the Smith Richardson Foundation, and the Arthur N. Rupe Foundation.\n\nPrior to 2017, the NAS had denied the conservative label. Writing in 2007, NAS's current president Peter Wood said: \"Both Left and the Right produce their share of intellectual obtuseness.\"\n\nWilliam A. Donohue, former NAS board member and leader of the politically conservative Catholic League, writes in \"American Conservatism: an Encyclopedia\" (2006) that the NAS wishes \"to foster renewed respect for the proposition that rational discourse and scholarship are the basis of academic life\" and to emphasize \"the Western commitment to freedom and democracy.\" On the other hand, Jacob Weisberg stated in 1991 that NAS is \"prone to conflating its admirable ideals with far less compelling political prejudices.\"\n\nThe National Association of Scholars opposes campus speech codes, which it argues violate the First Amendment. The NAS strongly objects to racial and gender preferences in college admissions and hiring, but states that it does not oppose all forms of affirmative action. Time Magazine in 1991 called NAS the \"faculty opposition to the excesses of multiculturalism.\" The NAS describes its main work as the defense of \"the core values of liberal higher education.\"\n\nThe NAS was an early critic of political correctness, engaged the American Association of University Professors over some of its policies, and complained to the secretary of the U.S. Department of Education, Lamar Alexander, who ruled that the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools eliminate its diversity standard. NAS's stands have led critics to label NAS \"conservative\", a \"group of reactionary scholars\" and \"a leading vehicle for the conservative attack on multiculturalism and political correctness\".\n\nChapters of the NAS have been involved in a number of campus controversies related to affirmative action and multicultural studies programs. According to People for the American Way, NAS faculty at the University of Texas, Austin blocked the inclusion of civil rights readings in an English course; the readings had been proposed to address concerns about racial and sexual harassment on campus. In 1990, the NAS placed an advertisement in the \"Daily Texan\" (the University of Texas student newspaper), calling for the rejection of a proposed multiculturalism curriculum at the University of Texas. Simultaneously, the NAS encouraged a successful campaign to defund the university's Chicano newspaper.\n\nIn 1990, a Duke University chapter of the NAS was formed by political science professor James David Barber. The new chapter provoked \"a sometimes bitter debate\" about the NAS stances on race and gender, and on whether academic freedom should extend to what NAS critics viewed as intolerance. Stanley Fish, chairman of the English department at Duke, wrote that NAS \"is widely known to be racist, sexist and homophobic.\" In an interview with the \"Durham Morning Herald\", Barber called Fish \"an embarrassment to this university for his gross insult to this organization.\" In response to the NAS chapter formation, a larger group of faculty formed \"Duke Faculty for Academic Tolerance\".\n\nAlso in 1990, the Harvard University community debated the presence of the NAS. Writing in the \"Harvard Crimson\", Martin L. Kilson Jr. acknowledged some \"overzealous behavior by supporters of ethnic studies and women studies\" but argued that the NAS was an \"overkill neoconservative response.\" In Kilson's view, NAS had succumbed to \"anxiety and maybe phobia\" of multiculturalism. He asks, \"why shouldn't persons on our campuses go to great lengths to avoid the tag 'racist'\"? Or the tags 'homophobic', 'sexist', 'anti-Asian', etc.?\"\n\nIn 2001, it was reported that the Colorado Commission on Higher Education had paid the National Association of Scholars $25,000 to generate a report on several Colorado universities with education programs. The NAS report criticized diversity curricula and recommended that the University of Colorado's education program be suspended and new admissions to other programs be halted. University of Colorado, Boulder dean William Stanley resigned in protest of what he called \"teacher-bashing\" by the NAS, while regent Bob Sievers deplored \"anti-teaching, anti-C.U./Boulder, anti-women and anti-minority bias.\" Questions were also raised regarding why money was paid to a \"right-wing\" organization like the NAS rather than to a group \"with credentials in teacher education.\"\n\nIn September 2008, the \"New York Times\" described the NAS as among the politically conservative organizations intensively and successfully lobbying for federal funding for programs which emphasize \"traditional American history, free institutions or Western civilization\". The \"Times\" reported that NAS and allied organizations sought to advance conservative causes by attaching conditions to university donations.\n\nIn 2011 NAS launched its Center for the Study of the Curriculum to \"document and to analyze important changes\" to college curricula and \"to propose improvements.\" The Center conducts yearly reviews of colleges and universities' common reading programs. The annual \"Beach Books\" report identifies the colleges that have these programs, the books they assign, and patterns in the assignments. The 2012–2013 report found that 97% of colleges and universities chose books published in or after 1990. The most popular book assigned was \"The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks\" by Rebecca Skloot. Writing at \"The Guardian\", the report's author, Ashley Thorne, criticized the lack of classics: \"The choice of a recent book that is often the only book students will have in common with one another points to the death of a shared literary culture. To the extent that colleges want to approach that culture, they display willful selfishness in confining their sights to the present.\"\n\nNAS president Peter Wood wrote in the \"Chronicle of Higher Education\", \"What is lamentable is the scant attention to important books, let alone classics; the relentless emphasis on the short-term and easily accessible; and the dominance of books that emphasize personal perspectives over efforts to know the world as it really is.\" NAS also publishes a list of books it recommends for colleges to assign as common reading.\n\nIn January 2013 the Center for the Study of the Curriculum, along with NAS's affiliate the Texas Association of Scholars, released a report on U.S. history courses taught in the Fall 2010 semester at the University of Texas and Texas A&M University. The report, \"Recasting History\", examined all 85 sections of lower-division courses that satisfied a Texas statute requiring students at public institutions to take two courses in American history. NAS concluded that a preponderance of the courses emphasized social history focusing especially on race, class, or gender. Other topics such as military, diplomatic, religious, and intellectual history were taught less frequently. After the report's release, Jeremi Suri, the Mack Brown Distinguished Professor for Global Leadership, History, and Public Policy at UT-Austin, called the report \"misleading, and frankly dumb.\" Writing in \"The Alcalde\", the official alumni magazine, Suri defended the University of Texas’s course offerings, saying, \"What we are teaching at UT, in almost all of our history and related courses, is a plural history of how many different people and parts of America relate to one another. What we are teaching is the beauty, the color, the promise, and also the challenge of contemporary America.\" Richard Pells, a former history professor at the University of Texas, wrote in an op-ed for the \"Austin-American Statesman\", \"I am neither conservative nor a member of the NAS. But I am an American historian who taught at UT from 1971 to 2011. And based on my own experiences at UT, I believe the report’s main arguments are absolutely correct.\"\n\nIn April 2013, NAS released \"What Does Bowdoin Teach?: How a Contemporary Liberal Arts College Shapes Students\". The 383-page study examined Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine, presenting it as representative of trends in college education in the United States. The report tracked how the college's decisions over forty years affected the curriculum, academic requirements, advising, faculty hiring, faculty committees, core values, key terms, campus controversies, residence life, disciplinary codes, student government, clubs, sports, and administrative priorities. The authors criticized Bowdoin for abolishing its core curriculum in 1969 and creating the system that remains in place in which there are few general education requirements. They also criticized Bowdoin for what they argued are overly specialized and politicized academic departments, a politically-correct environment, and the college’s disregard for intellectual diversity. David Feith wrote in the \"Wall Street Journal\" that the report \"demonstrates how Bowdoin has become an intellectual monoculture dedicated above all to identity politics.\" Bowdoin College's response to the report was mixed. Writing in the \"Bowdoin Sun\" (the college’s official newspaper) Bowdoin president Barry Mills called the report \"mean-spirited and personal.\" Bowdoin Social Sciences professor Jean Yarbrough wrote in \"The Bowdoin Orient\", \"Although I do not agree with all the findings of the NAS report, I believe that it highlights serious problems with the current state of education at Bowdoin and at elite institutions in general.\"\n\nThe NAS's quarterly journal, \"Academic Questions\", publishes articles and interviews on higher education, with a focus on the perceived excesses of political correctness in academia. \"Academic Questions\" describes itself as \"a journal dedicated to strengthening the integrity of scholarship and teaching.\"\n\nIn a review in \"The Times Literary Supplement\", Jonathan Rauch noted the journal's ideological tone, writing, \"Though written mainly by scholars, it is a missionary journal, not a scholarly one.\" Rauch concluded: \"If at times hectoring, \"Academic Questions\" is that rare and useful thing among journals—a live wire.\"\n\nMost issues of \"Academic Questions\" focus on a particular theme in higher education. Previous themes have included \"Why Study Islam, India, and China?\"; \"Why Study the West?\"; \"Hard Cases: America's Law Schools\"; \"Liberal Education and the Family\"; and \"A Crucible Moment? A Forum on the President’s Call for a New Civics.\"\n\n\"Academic Questions\" has included articles by Jacques Barzun, Eugene Genovese, Thomas Sowell, and Terry Eagleton, and it contains interviews with Tom Wolfe, Julius Lester, Napoleon Chagnon, and Joseph Morrison Skelly.\n\nRichard Arum, Jill Biden, Andrew Delbanco, Joseph Epstein, Victor Davis Hanson, Wilfred M. McClay, Charles Murray, and Ibn Warraq were among those who contributed to \"Academic Questions\", \"One Hundred Great Ideas for Higher Education,\" a symposium in the journal's 100th issue published in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "4931545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4931545", "title": "Ophaboom Theatre Company", "text": "Ophaboom Theatre Company\n\nThe Ophaboom Theatre Company, founded in 1991 by Geoff Beale and Howard Gayton, is an English physical theatre company specializing in creating and performing contemporary works in the Italian Commedia dell'Arte tradition. Drawing on Medieval theatre and the origins of Commedia, Ophaboom set out with the self-stated aim of creating \"a popular (and politically topical) style of theatre that would resonate with a modern audience, in the manner of Medieval strolling players.\" Although the troupe performs in traditional theatre spaces, they also set up their trestle stage on street corners, in village halls, in bowling alleys and many other less conventional venues, with the stated intention of \"bringing theatre to audiences who might not otherwise go to see it.\" \n\nAlthough nominally based in London, Ophaboom--like Commedia companies of old--is primarily a touring company. With the aid of Arts Council England, they tour extensively throughout the British Isles; they also regularly tour across continental Europe, performing in seven languages. They were the first English company to appear at the Medieval Festival in Le Puy–en–Velay, and have been invited four times to bring their English brand of Commedia to the Carnival of Venice. They have also toured as far afield as North America and Korea. \n\nAs a leading company in the development of English Commedia, Ophaboom was profiled in the book \"Commedia dell'Arte: A Handbook for Troupes\" by John Rudlin and Olly Crick (Routledge Publisher, London and New York, 2001). Rudlin and Crick examined the company's history, evolution, and working methods, placing their work in context alongside European Commedia masters such as Carlo Boso and Antonio Fava. Ophaboom's contributions to English Commedia have been further documented in \"New Theatre Quarterly 67\", edited by Clive Barker and Simon Trussler (Cambridge University Press, 2001); \"Shakespeare Survey 50\" edited by Stanley Wells (Cambridge University Press, 2002), and \"Faust: Icon of Modern Culture\" by Osman Durrani (Helms Information Ltd., UK, 2004).\n\nCurrent members of the company: Geoff Beale, Howard Gayton, Sarah Ratheram, and Claire Jones.\n\n"}
{"id": "1261227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261227", "title": "Pascal Boyer", "text": "Pascal Boyer\n\nPascal Robert Boyer is a French and American evolutionary anthropologist and psychologist, mostly known for his work in the cognitive science of religion. He taught at the University of Cambridge for eight years, before taking up the position of Henry Luce Professor of Individual and Collective Memory at Washington University in St. Louis, where he teaches classes on psychology and anthropology. He was a Guggenheim Fellow and a visiting professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara and the University of Lyon, France. He studied philosophy and anthropology at University of Paris and Cambridge, with Jack Goody, working on memory constraints on the transmission of oral literature.\n\nPascal Boyer, an anthropologist and evolutionary psychologist, studies how the human brain and how its evolutionary biases and functions have resulted in or encouraged cultural phenomena. He advocates the idea that human evolution resulted in specialized capacities that guide our social relations, morality, and predilections toward religious beliefs. Boyer and others propose that these cognitive mechanisms make the acquisition of “religious” themes, like concepts of spirits, ghosts, ancestors or gods, highly transmissible within a community.\n\nBoyer has conducted long term ethnographic fieldwork in Cameroon, where he studied the transmission of Fang oral epics and its traditional religion. Most of his later work consists of experimental study of cognitive capacities underlying cultural transmission. He also conducted studies on supernatural concepts and their retention in memory, and a general description of cognitive processes involved in transmission of religious concepts.\n\nHe has written several books, of which \"Religion Explained: The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought\", is the most known. Boyer introduced cognitive anthropology, which provided a new understanding of religion. Religion for Boyer is a cultural construct and thus it is hard, if not impossible, to find an essence of it. This is also why definitions of religion fail. There is hardly anything in common with all religions except relation to \"supernatural agents\" (spirits, gods, ancestors and such). The concept of \"Supernatural agents\" is core for his theories working with religion because for Boyer, “Religion is about the existence and causal powers of non-observable entities and agencies.” The underlying basis for his theory of religion is that religions are natural in at least two senses: “that the content and organization of religious ideas depend on properties of human mind-brain and despite ‘socialization’, they are perceived as intuitively unnatural by human subjects.” In this cognitive paradigm belief in \"supernatural agents\" is natural and part of human cognition.\n\nIn \"Religion Explained,\" Boyer uses the word \"“counterintuitive”\" as “a technical term” (p. 65) to refer to how “religious concepts seem to go against some of (the) information” that people (consciously or not) associate with “ontological categories” (p. 64). While Boyer does allow for “precognition” as an example of “puzzling mental phenomena” (p. 11), he uses the word “intuition” here to apply to “guess(work)”, which is a “powerful” (p. 53), but “not always reliable” (p. 54) component of “the brain’s inference systems” (p. 18). Important for Boyer is that “when we have relatively stable intuitions about what is ‘all right’ and what is not, it is often because we are using rules without necessarily being aware of them” (p. 54).\n\nBoyer’s suggests that “the neologism \"counterontological\" might be a better choice” than \"counterintuitive\", since he is explaining how “concepts are…counterintuitive” in that they “includ(e) information contradicting some information provided by ontological categories” (p. 65). For Boyer, “religious concepts” are \"counterintuitive\" in that they both \"“violate\" certain expectations from ontological categories [“very abstract concepts…distinguish(ed) from more concrete ones”, see p. 60–61, and elsewhere for definition and detail]” and \"“preserve\" other expectations” (p. 62). Boyer asserts that \"“religious concepts invariably include information that is counterintuitive\" relative to the (ontological) category activated” (p. 65).\n\nJustin L. Barrett has argued that Boyer’s book, \"The Naturalness of Religious Ideas: A Cognitive Theory of Religion\" is an attempt to reform traditional models and allow understanding religion in terms of cognitive experience. Boyer dismantles many traditional assumptions of cultural studies. However, Barrett claims, Boyer lacks clarity--mostly due to the shift in anthropological to psychological jargon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "863950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=863950", "title": "Post-expressionism", "text": "Post-expressionism\n\nPost-expressionism is a term coined by the German art critic Franz Roh to describe a variety of movements in the post-war art world which were influenced by expressionism but defined themselves through rejecting its aesthetic. Roh first used the term in an essay in 1925, \"Magic Realism: Post-Expressionism\", to contrast to Gustav Friedrich Hartlaub's \"New Objectivity\", which more narrowly characterized these developments within German art. Though Roh saw \"post-expressionism\" and \"magic realism\" as synonymous, later critics characterized distinctions between magic realism and other artists initially identified by Hartlaub and have also pointed out other artists in Europe who had different stylistic tendencies but were working within the same trend.\n\nLeading up to World War I, much of the art world was under the influence of Futurism and Expressionism. Both movements abandoned any sense of order or commitment to objectivity or tradition.\n\nThe sentiment of Futurists was most vocally expressed by Filippo Marinetti in the \"Futurist Manifesto\", where he called for a rejection of the past, a rejection of all imitation — of other artists or of the outside world — and praised the virtue of originality and triumph of technology. The Futurist poet Vladimir Mayakovsky, along these lines, said “After seeing electricity, I lost interest in nature.” Marinetti and other Futurists glorified war and violence as a way to revolution – bringing freedom, establishing new ideas, and rallying one to fight for one's own people – and as war was shaping up in Europe, many saw it and encouraged a way to “purify” the culture and destroy old, obsolete elements of society.\n\nExpressionists, likewise abandoning imitation nature, sought to express emotional experience, but often centered their art around angst — inner turmoil; whether in reaction to the modern world, to alienation from society, or in the creation of personal identity. In concert with this evocation of angst, expressionists also echoed some of the same feelings of revolution as did Futurists. This is evidenced by a 1919 anthology of expressionist poetry titled \"Menschheitsdämmerung\", which translates to “Dawn of Humanity” — meant to suggest that humanity was in a 'twilight'; that there was an imminent demise of some old way of being and beneath it the urgings of a new dawning.\n\nBoth futurism and expressionism were always met by opposition, but the destruction that occurred in the war had heightened the criticism against them. Following the war, in and throughout different artistic circles there was a call for a return to order and re-appreciation of tradition and of the natural world. In Italy, this was encouraged by the magazine \"Valori Plastici\" and came together in the Novecento, a group that exhibited in the Venice Biennale and was joined by many Futurists who had rejected their former work. Mario Sironi, a member of this group, stated that they “would not imitate the world created by God but would be inspired by it.” The “New Objectivity” or \"Neue Sachlichkeit\", as coined by Hartlaub, described the developments in Germany and became the title of an exhibition that he staged in 1925. \"Neue Sachlichkeit\" was influenced not only by the “return to order” but also a call to arms among more left-leaning artists who wanted to use their art in a forward, political manner that expressionism didn't enable them to do. In Belgium, there was another vein in the common trend, which would later be referred to as a “retour à l’humain”.\n\nWhen Hartlaub defined the idea of the \"Neue Sachlichkeit\", he identified two groups: the \"verists\", who “[tore] the objective form of the world of contemporary facts and represent current experience in its tempo and fevered temperature,” and the \"classicists\", who “[searched] more for the object of timeless ability to embody the external laws of existence in the artistic sphere.”\n\nAlthough Roh originally meant the term 'Magic Realism' to be more or less synonymous with \"Neue Sachlichkeit\", the artists identified by Hartlaub as 'classicists' later became associated with Roh's term. These 'Magic Realists' were all influenced by the classicism developed in Italy by the Novecento, and in turn by de Chirico's concept of \"metaphysical art\", which had also branched into surrealism. Art critic Wieland Schmeid in 1977 posited that despite the fact that the terms were meant to refer to the same thing, the understanding of them as different groups derives from the fact that the movement had a right and left wing, with the Magic Realists on the right — many later supporting fascism or accommodating to it— and the \"verists\" we associate as the \"Neue Sachlichkeit\" on the left — fighting against fascism. The two groups in addition to having different political philosophies likewise had different artistic philosophies.\n\nThe third movement that is important to include in post-expressionism, and which Roh excluded, is the reaction to Flemish Expressionism, as opposed to strains of German expressionism and Italian futurism. This is typically referred to as \"animism\".\n\n'Magic Realism' for Roh, as a reaction to expressionism, meant to declare “[that] the autonomy of the objective world around us was once more to be enjoyed; the wonder of matter that could crystallize into objects was to be seen anew.” With the term, he was emphasizing the “magic” of the normal world as it presents itself to us — how, when we really look at everyday objects, they can appear strange and fantastic.\n\nIn Italy, the style that Roh identified was created by a confluence of a renewed focus on harmony and technique called for by the “return to order” and \"metaphysical art\", a style which had been developed by Carlo Carrà and Giorgio de Chirico, two members of the Novecento. Carrà described his purpose as to explore the imagined inner life of familiar objects when represented out of their explanatory contexts: their solidity, their separateness in the space allotted to them, the secret dialogue that may take place between them.\n\nThe leading painter in Italy associated with this style is perhaps Antonio Donghi, who kept to traditional subject matter — popular life, landscapes, and still life — but presented it with strong composition and spatial clarity to give it gravity and stillness. His still lifes often consist of a small vase of flowers, depicted with the disarming symmetry of naive art. He also often painted birds carefully arranged for display in their cages, and dogs and other animals ready to perform for circus acts, to suggest an artificial arrangement placed on top of nature. In Germany, Anton Räderscheidt followed a style similar to Donghi, turning to magic realism after abandoning constructivism. Georg Schrimpf is somewhat like the two, working in a style influenced by primitivism.\n\nFilippo De Pisis, who is often associated with \"metaphysical art\", can also be seen as a magic realist. Like Donghi, he often painted traditional subjects, but rather than developing a strict classical style, used a more painterly brush to bring out the intimacy of the objects, similar to the Belgian \"animists\". His association with \"metaphysical art\" comes from the fact that he would often contrapose objects in his still lifes, and set them in a scene that gave them context.\n\nAnother artist in Italy considered a magic realist is Felice Casorati, whose paintings are rendered with fine technique but often distinguished by unusual perspective effects and bold colorfulness. In 1925, Rafaello Giolli summarized the disconcerting aspects of Casorati's art — “The volumes have no weight in them, and the colors no body. Everything is fictitious: even the living lack all nervous vitality. The sun seems to be the moon ... nothing is fixed or definite.”\n\nOther German artists who worked within this style are Alexander Kanoldt and Carl Grossberg. Kanoldt painted still lifes and portraits, while Grossberg painted urban landscapes and industrial sites rendered with chilly precision.\n\nThe artists most associated with the \"Neue Sachlichkeit\" today are those Hartlaub identified as 'verists'. These artists tended to oppose expressionism, but did not so much exemplify the “return to order” as much as they opposed what they saw as the political impotence of expressionist art. They sought to involve themselves into revolutionary politics and their form of realism distorted appearances to emphasize the ugly, as they wanted to expose what they considered the ugliness of reality. The art was raw, provocative, and harshly satirical.\n\nBertolt Brecht, a German dramatist, was an early critic of Expressionism, referring to it as constrained and superficial. Just like in politics Germany had a new parliament but lacked parliamentarians, he argued, in literature there was an expression of delight in ideas, but no new ideas, and in theater a 'will to drama', but no real drama. His early plays, \"Baal\" and \"Trommeln in der Nacht\" (Drums in the Night) express repudiations of fashionable interest in Expressionism. Opposed to the focus on individual emotional experience in expressionist art, Brecht began a collaborative method to play production, starting with his \"Man Equals Man\" project.\n\nOverall, the \"verist\" critique of expressionism was influenced by Dadaism. The early exponents of Dada had been drawn together in Switzerland, a neutral country in the war, and in common cause, they wanted to use their art as a form of moral and cultural protest — shaking off not only the constraints of nationality, but also of artistic language, in order to express political outrage and encourage political action. Expressionism, to Dadaists, expressed all of the angst and anxieties of society, but was helpless to do anything about it.\n\nOut of this, Dada cultivated a “satirical hyperrealism”, as termed by Raoul Hausmann, and of which the best known examples are the graphical works and photo-montages of John Heartfield. Use of collage in these works became a \"compositional\" principle to blend reality and art, as if to suggest that to record the facts of reality was to go beyond the most simple appearances of things. This later developed into portraits and scenes by artists such as George Grosz, Otto Dix, and Rudolf Schlichter. Portraits would give emphasis to particular features or objects that were seen as distinctive aspects of the person depicted. Satirical scenes often depicted a madness behind what was happening, depicting the participants as cartoon-like.\n\nOther \"verist\" artists, like Christian Schad, depicted reality with a clinical precision, which suggested both an empirical detachment and intimate knowledge of the subject. Schad's paintings are characterized \"an artistic perception so sharp that it seems to cut beneath the skin\", according to Schmied. Often, psychological elements were introduced in his work, which suggested an underlying unconscious reality to life.\n\nIn Belgium, expressionism had been influenced by artists like James Ensor and Louis Pevernagie who had combined expressionism with symbolism. Ensor, known for his paintings of people in masks, carnival outfits, and side-by-side with skeletons, also often painted realistic scenes, but imbued them with a fevered brush, garish colors, and strong contrasts to suggest a strange unreality present in them, as did Pevernagie. Expressionism was also exhibited in the Latemse School, where adherents like Constant Permeke and Hubert Malfait used brushwork in painting and loose form in sculpture to show a mystic reality behind nature.\n\nIn what had been called a “retour à l’humain” (return to the human), many artists working in Belgium after the war had kept the expressive brush of their forebearers, but had rejected what they had seen as the anti-human, unreal distortions in their subject matter. The goal was to use the expressive brush to depict the soul or spirit of the objects, people, and places they were painting, rather than a hyperbolic, externalized, displaced angst of the artist. These artists were often characterized as 'introverts', as opposed to the 'extroverts' of expressionism.\n\nBelgian art critic Paul Haesaerts later gave this movement the title \"animism\", which he took from anthropologist E.B. Tylor's book \"Primitive Culture\" (1871) describing 'animism' as primitive religion that based itself on the idea a soul inhabited all objects. Later, Haesaerts, driven by criticism to do so, also used the terms \"réalisme poétique\" and \"intimism\", although \"animism\" is still most commonly used in literature. \"Intimism\" will more often refer to the art practiced by some members of the Nabis.\n\nThe most recognized painter of these artists is Henri-Victor Wolvens, who painted many scenes of the beach and ocean at Oostende. In his beach scenes, harsh waves are painted with a rough brush, clouds in patches — rougher when in storm — and the sand with a scraped quality. Figures are painted as simply as possible, often as stick figures, and given translucency and movement — so his bathers show the activity of the beach and it the activity of the bathers blend in with the motion of the waves crashing ashore.\n\nThe work of Floris Jespers was strongly influenced by an animist spirit after the war. He uses form and color to give different degrees of vividness to the subjects in his paintings, each to the degree that one would associate them with in life.\n\nOther painters associated with this movement are Anne Bonnet, Albert Dasnoy, Henri Evenepoel, Mayou Iserentant, Jacques Maes, Marcel Stobbaerts, Albert Van Dyck, Louis Van Lint, War Van Overstraeten and Jozef Vinck.\n\nFilippo De Pisis, referenced above, exhibited animist tendencies.\n\nGeorge Grard is the sculptor most associated with animism. Like expressionists, he went against both naturalism and classical tendencies, but used exaggerations from his models to heighten the feeling and sensuality of the form, and chose lyrical subjects. Grard was friends with Charles LePlae, who had a similar style, but kept more in line with natural and classical forms.\n\nHerman De Cuyper is also associated with animism, and abstracted to a more extreme degree than did Grard or LaPlae, and in some ways is more similar to Henry Moore.\n\nAn early revolt against the imposed classicism that was popular in the Novecento took place with the founding of the \"Scuola Romana\".\n\nCorrado Cagli was a member of this group, and identified himself and others whom he met as members of the “New Roman School of Painting”, or \"nuovi pittori romani\" (new Roman painters). Cagli spoke of a spreading sensitivity and an \"Astro di Roma\" (Roman Star) which guided them, affirming it as the poetic basis of their art:\nSometimes referred to as \"romantic expressionism\", art from this group exhibits a wild painting style, expressive and disorderly, violent and with warm ochre and maroon tones. Contrary to early expressionism, the focus isn't on angst and turmoil, but rather seeing the world anew, as Cagli described, through romantic imagination. Yet, the formal rigour of the Novecento was replaced by a distinctly expressionist visionariness.\n\nScipione brought to life a sort of Roman baroque expressionism, where often decadent landscapes appear of Rome's historical baroque centre, populated by priests and cardinals, seen with a vigorously expressive and hallucinated eye.\n\nMario Mafai painted many scenes of Rome and its suburbs, and used warm chromatic colors to convey a sense of freshness and pictorial curiosity. This bent is particularly emphasised in his 1936-1939 work, in a series paintings entitled \"Demolitions\", where in order to make a political statement he painted urban restructuring being carried out by the fascist regime. During the Second World War he painted a series of \"Fantasies\" depicting horrors committed by the fascists. Antonietta Raphaël, Mafai's wife and a sculptor, was also a member of this group.\n\nAnother member was Renatto Guttuso, who like Mafai made paintings which denounced the fascist regime. Guttuso's works are generally bright, lively, and verging on abstraction.\n\nEmanuele Cavalli and Giuseppe Capogrossi have associations both with the \"Scuola Romana\" and with Magic Realism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1285190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1285190", "title": "Problem of evil in Hinduism", "text": "Problem of evil in Hinduism\n\nThe standard problem of evil found in monotheistic religions does not apply to almost all traditions of Hinduism because it does not posit an omniscient, omnipotent, omnibenevolent creator.\n\nScholars have proposed alternate forms of the problem of evil based on Hinduism's karma and transmigration doctrines. According to Arthur Herman, karma-transmigration theory solves all three historical formulations to the problem of evil while acknowledging the theodicy insights of Adi Sankara and Ramanuja.\n\nHinduism is a complex religion with many different currents or schools. Its non-theist traditions such as Samkhya, early Nyaya, Mimamsa and many within Vedanta do not posit the existence of an almighty, omnipotent, omniscient, omnibenevolent god (monotheistic god), and the classical formulations of the problem of evil and theodicy do not apply to most Hindu traditions. Further, deities in Hinduism are neither eternal nor omnipotent nor omniscient nor omnibenevolent. Devas are mortal and subject to samsara. Evil as well as good, along with suffering is considered real and caused by human free will, its source and consequences explained through the karma doctrine of Hinduism, as in other Indian religions.\n\nBoth evil (\"agha\", अघ) and suffering (\"dukkha\", दुःख) are extensively discussed in ancient and medieval Hindu texts. However, neither good nor evil, neither bliss nor suffering are linked to gods or god, but considered a part of the innate nature of living in the Saṃsāra cycle of rebirths. In Hindu thought, some suffering is self-caused (karma in this life or past life, either intentionally or from ignorance), some caused by evilness of others, some are natural (aging, disease, natural disasters). Some texts include the actions or influence of supernatural forces on evil experienced by man. One text of the ancient Samkhya school of Hinduism, for example describes three kinds of suffering: first, of body and mind caused by diseases or personal behavior such as anger, greed, delusion, etc.; second, suffering caused by other beings such as men, beasts, reptiles etc.; third, suffering caused by the influence of yaksha, planets and such forces. The Hindu texts describe and discuss suffering caused by both moral evils and natural evils.\n\nHinduism and other Indian religions do not focus on the problem of evil as formulated in monotheistic religions, by attempting to reconcile the nature of one all-powerful, all-seeing, all-benevolent god with existence of evil. Rather, they focus on the path to spiritual liberation called moksha, one that grants bliss in the present life such that evil and suffering have no effect on the liberated person's state of inner peace and happiness, and attaining moksha also means an end to the cycle of rebirth. In theistic devotional sub-traditions of Hinduism, the personal god such as Krishna or Shiva or Devi is believed by the Hindu to stand by, as a form of spiritual support and liberator, when one faces evil and suffers.\n\nA version of the problem of evil appears in the ancient \"Brahma Sutras\", probably composed between 200 BCE and 200 CE, a foundational text of the Vedanta tradition of Hinduism. Its verses 2.1.34 through 2.1.36 aphoristically mention a version of the problem of suffering and evil in the context of the abstract metaphysical Hindu concept of Brahman. The verse 2.1.34 of \"Brahma Sutras\" asserts that inequality and cruelty in the world cannot be attributed to the concept of Brahman, and this is in the Vedas and the Upanishads. In his interpretation and commentary on the \"Brahma Sutras\", the 8th-century scholar Adi Shankara states that just because some people are happier than others and just because there is so much malice, cruelty and pain in the world, some state that Brahman cannot be the cause of the world. Shankara attributes evil and cruelty in the world to Karma of oneself, of others, and to ignorance, delusion and wrong knowledge, but not to the abstract Brahman. Shankara develops the argument that God is not the Brahman, and that \"a loving and good God could not have created the universe\", a position held by Advaita Vedanta school of Hinduism.\n\nIn other words, in the \"Brahma Sutras\", the formulation of problem of evil is considered a metaphysical construct, but not a moral issue. Ramanuja of the theistic Sri Vaishnavism school – a major tradition within Vaishnavism – interprets the same verse in the context of Vishnu, and asserts that Vishnu only creates potentialities.\n\nAccording to Swami Gambhirananda, Sankara's commentary explains that God cannot be charged with partiality or cruelty (i.e. injustice) on account of his taking the factors of virtuous and vicious actions (Karma) performed by an individual in previous lives. If an individual experiences pleasure or pain in this life, it is due to virtuous or vicious action (Karma) done by that individual in a past life \n\nRamanuja of the theistic Sri Vaishnavism school interprets the same verse in the context of Vishnu, and asserts that Vishnu only creates potentialities. According to Arvind Sharma, Shankara's Advaita Vedanta school does not attribute the evil and suffering to the abstract concept of Brahman, but to ignorance, delusion and wrong knowledge. The universe and all existence is without a beginning or end, and Brahman is everything before and after that beginning, before and after the end. Further, in Hindu thought, neither evil nor error are final, all happiness and suffering is impermanent, and truth ultimately triumphs.\n\nThe theory of karma refers to the spiritual principle of cause and effect where intent and actions of an individual (cause) influence the future of that individual (effect). The problem of evil, in the context of karma, has been long discussed in Indian religions such as Buddhism, Hinduism and Jainism, both in its theistic and non-theistic schools; for example, in Uttara Mīmāṃsā Sutras Book 2 Chapter 1; the 8th century arguments by Adi Sankara in \"Brahmasutrabhasya\" where he posits that God cannot reasonably be the cause of the world because there exists moral evil, inequality, cruelty and suffering in the world; and the 11th century theodicy discussion by Ramanuja in \"Sribhasya\".\n\nMany Indian religions place greater emphasis on developing the karma principle for first cause and innate justice with Man as focus, rather than developing religious principles with the nature and powers of God and divine judgment as focus. Karma theory of Buddhism, Hinduism and Jainism is not static, but dynamic wherein livings beings with intent or without intent, but with words and actions continuously create new karma, and it is this that they believe to be in part the source of good or evil in the world. These religions also believe that past lives or past actions in current life create current circumstances, which also contributes to either. Other scholars suggest that nontheistic Indian religious traditions do not assume an omnibenevolent creator, and some theistic schools do not define or characterize their God(s) as monotheistic Western religions do and the deities have colorful, complex personalities; the Indian deities are personal and cosmic facilitators, and in some schools conceptualized like Plato’s Demiurge. Therefore, the problem of theodicy in many schools of major Indian religions is not significant, or at least is of a different nature than in Western religions.\n\nOne sub-tradition within the Vaishnavism school of Hinduism that is an exception is dualistic Dvaita, founded by Madhvacharya in the 13th-century. This tradition posits a concept of God so similar to Christianity, that Christian missionaries in colonial India suggested that Madhvacharya was likely influenced by early Christians who migrated to India, a theory that has been discredited by scholars. Madhvacharya was challenged by Hindu scholars on the problem of evil, given his dualistic Dvaita Vedanta (\"Tattvavada\") theory that proposed God (Vishnu, supreme soul) and the individual souls (jīvātman) exist as independent realities, and these are distinct. Madhvacharya asserted, \"Yathecchasi tatha kuru\", which Sharma translates and explains as \"one has the right to choose between right and wrong, a choice each individual makes out of his own responsibility and his own risk\". Madhva's reply does not address the problem of evil, state Dasti and Bryant, as to how can evil exist with that of a God who is omnipotent, omniscient, and omnibenevolent.\n\nAccording to Sharma, \"Madhva's tripartite classification of souls makes it unnecessary to answer the problem of evil\". According to David Buchta, this does not address the problem of evil, because the omnipotent God \"could change the system, but chooses not to\" and thus sustains the evil in the world. This view of self's agency of Madhvacharya was, states Buchta, an outlier in Vedanta school and Indian philosophies in general.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34189751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34189751", "title": "Rajah Serfoji Government Arts College", "text": "Rajah Serfoji Government Arts College\n\nRajah Serfoji Government College is a college in Thanjavur, India.\n"}
{"id": "1792950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792950", "title": "Second Bill of Rights", "text": "Second Bill of Rights\n\nThe Second Bill of Rights is a list of rights that was proposed by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt during his State of the Union Address on Tuesday, January 11, 1944. In his address, Roosevelt suggested that the nation had come to recognize and should now implement, a second \"bill of rights\". Roosevelt's argument was that the \"political rights\" guaranteed by the Constitution and the Bill of Rights had \"proved inadequate to assure us equality in the pursuit of happiness\". His remedy was to declare an \"economic bill of rights\" to guarantee these specific rights:\n\nRoosevelt stated that having such rights would guarantee American security and that the United States' place in the world depended upon how far the rights had been carried into practice.\n\nIn the runup to the Second World War, the United States had suffered through the Great Depression following the Wall Street Crash of 1929. Roosevelt's election at the end of 1932 was based on a commitment to reform the economy and society through a \"New Deal\" program. The first indication of a commitment to government guarantees of social and economic rights came in an address to the Commonwealth Club on September 23, 1932 during his campaign. The speech was written with Adolf A. Berle, a professor of corporate law at Columbia University. A key passage read: \n\nThroughout Roosevelt's presidency, he returned to the same theme continually over the course of the New Deal. Also in the Atlantic Charter, an international commitment was made as the Allies thought about how to \"win the peace\" following victory in the Second World War.\n\nDuring Roosevelt's January 11, 1944 message to the Congress on the State of the Union, he said the following: \n\nRoosevelt saw the economic Bill of Rights as something that would at least initially be implemented by legislation, but that did not exclude either the Supreme Court's development of constitutional jurisprudence or amendments to the Constitution. Roosevelt's model assumed that federal government would take the lead, but that did not prevent states improving their own legislative or constitutional framework beyond the federal minimum. Much of the groundwork had been laid before and during the New Deal, but left many of the Second Bill of Rights' aspirations incomplete. Internationally, the same economic and social rights were written into the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948.\n\nIn federal legislation, the key planks for the right to a useful and remunerative job included the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. After the war was the Employment Act of 1946, which created an objective for the government to eliminate unemployment; and the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibited unjustified discrimination in the workplace and in access to public and private services. They remained some of the key elements of labor law. The rights to food and fair agricultural wages was assured by numerous Acts on agriculture in the United States and by the Food Stamp Act of 1964. The right to freedom from unfair competition was primarily seen to be achievable through the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice's enforcement of both the Sherman Act of 1890 and the Clayton Act of 1914, with some minor later amendments. The most significant program of change occurred through Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society. The right to housing was developed through a policy of subsidies and government building under the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965. The right to health care was partly improved by the Social Security Act of 1965 and more recently the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. The Social Security Act of 1935 had laid the groundwork for protection from fear of old age, sickness, accident and unemployment. The right to a decent education was shaped heavily by Supreme Court jurisprudence and the administration of education was left to the states, particularly with \"Brown v. Board of Education\". A legislative framework developed through the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 and in higher education a measure of improvement began with federal assistance and regulation in the Higher Education Act of 1965.\n\nLater in the 1970s, Czech jurist Karel Vasak would categorize these as the \"second generation\" rights in his theory of three generations of human rights.\n\nRoosevelt presented the to the public on radio as a fireside chat from the White House: Today I sent my Annual Message to the Congress, as required by the Constitution. It has been my custom to deliver these Annual Messages in person, and they have been broadcast to the Nation. I intended to follow this same custom this year. But like a great many other people, I have had the \"flu\", and although I am practically recovered, my doctor simply would not let me leave the White House to go up to the Capitol. Only a few of the newspapers of the United States can print the Message in full, and I am anxious that the American people be given an opportunity to hear what I have recommended to the Congress for this very fateful year in our history — and the reasons for those recommendations. Here is what I said …\n\nHe asked that newsreel cameras film the last portion of the address, concerning the Second Bill of Rights. This footage was believed lost until it was uncovered in 2008 in South Carolina by Michael Moore while researching the film \"\". The footage shows Roosevelt's Second Bill of Rights address in its entirety as well as a shot of the eight rights printed on a sheet of paper.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18953675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18953675", "title": "Steuben point", "text": "Steuben point\n\nThe Steuben Point is a Native American stone tool point found throughout central Illinois and the surrounding Midwest. These points have a slightly convex blade, expanding stem, and straight base that sometimes exhibit basal grinding. Culturally, the point is representative of the terminal Middle Woodland to early Late Woodland periods. The point type is technologically related to Snyders and Ansell points.\n"}
{"id": "14089823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14089823", "title": "Studies in Comparative Religion", "text": "Studies in Comparative Religion\n\nStudies in Comparative Religion was a quarterly academic journal published from 1963 to 1987 that contained essays on the spiritual practices and religious symbolism of the world's religions. The journal was notable for the number of prominent Perennialists who contributed to it. It was also notable for being the first English-language journal focused on the subject of traditional studies and comparative religion.\n\nThe journal was established in 1963 by Francis Clive-Ross, who also served as editor-in-chief and publisher. From 1963 to 1967 the journal was published under the name \"Tomorrow\". Perennialist author William Stoddart also served as an assistant editor for many years. Jacob Needleman, editor of \"The Penguin Metaphysical Library\", published a collection of essays from \"Studies in Comparative Religion\" under the title \"The Sword of Gnosis\". The journal ceased publication in 1987 and the articles were unavailable until 2007, when World Wisdom launched a free on-line archive.\n"}
{"id": "2527261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2527261", "title": "Studies in the Scriptures", "text": "Studies in the Scriptures\n\nStudies in the Scriptures is a series of publications, intended as a Bible study aid, containing seven volumes of great importance to the history of the Bible Student movement, and the early history of Jehovah's Witnesses.\n\nThe author of the original six volumes of \"Studies in the Scriptures\", Charles Taze Russell, reported that he did not write them \"through visions and dreams, nor by God's audible voice,\" but that he sought \"to bring together these long scattered fragments of truth\". The first volume was written in 1886. Originally titled \"The Plan of the Ages\" as part of a series called \"Millennial Dawn\", it was later renamed \"The Divine Plan of the Ages\". The name of the series was changed to \"Studies in the Scriptures\" in 1904 in order to clarify their nature as biblical textbooks.\n\nThe series was written as a Bible study aid. The intention was that by studying the Bible topically, rather than verse by verse, details of God's purpose might become clearer. The series progresses from elementary topics, such as the existence of God and promoting the Bible as God's word, to deeper subject matter throughout the series.\n\nThe series was criticized by some early 20th century ministers as an attempt to replace the Bible. Russell's view was that whilst the Bible had been studied by different methods, topical study was the best approach. In addition to other material, the six volumes contain commentary about biblical events and expressions. Russell did not claim infallibility, but declared that God's plan of salvation could not be understood independently from his writings. He stated, \"if he then lays [the Studies in the Scriptures] aside and ignores them and goes to the Bible alone, though he has understood his Bible for ten years, our experience shows that within two years he goes into darkness.\"\n\"Studies in the Scriptures\" claimed to represent that humankind had reached the end of the current era, and that Jesus would soon separate the wheat from the weeds.\n\nFollowing Russell's death in 1916, a seventh volume—entitled \"The Finished Mystery\"—was published in 1917 and advertised as his \"posthumous work\". This seventh volume was a detailed interpretation of the book of Book of Revelation, but also included interpretations of Ezekiel and the Song of Solomon. An advertisement for the book in \"Zion's Watch Tower\" called it \"the true interpretation\", and it was promoted as being \"of the Lord—prepared under his guidance.\"\n\nImmediate controversy surrounded both its publication and content. It was soon established that it was largely written and compiled by two of Russell's associates, Clayton J. Woodworth and George H. Fisher, and edited by Russell's successor, Joseph Franklin Rutherford.\n\nThe abandonment of several core doctrines under Rutherford's presidency prompted the Watch Tower Society to cease publication of all seven volumes of \"Studies in the Scriptures\" in 1927, although the books were still being sold door-to-door in 1929. Other publications of Jehovah's Witnesses, including \"Jehovah's Witnesses—Proclaimers of God's Kingdom\" (their official history) and \"Revelation—Its Grand Climax at Hand\" (their exposition of the Book of Revelation) make reference to \"Studies in the Scriptures\".\n\nThe six original volumes of \"Studies in the Scriptures\" are still published by independent groups within the Bible Student movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108299", "title": "Systems philosophy", "text": "Systems philosophy\n\nSystems philosophy is a discipline aimed at constructing a new philosophy (in the sense of worldview) by using systems concepts. The discipline was first described by Ervin Laszlo in his 1972 book \"Introduction to Systems Philosophy: Toward a New Paradigm of Contemporary Thought\". It has been described as the \"reorientation of thought and world view ensuing from the introduction of \"systems\" as a new scientific paradigm\".\n\nSoon after Laszlo founded systems philosophy it was placed in context by Ludwig von Bertalanffy, one of the founders of general system theory, when he categorized three domains within systemics namely:\n\nSystems philosophy consists of four main areas:\n\nThe term \"systems philosophy\" is often used as a convenient shorthand to refer to \"the philosophy of systems\", but this usage can be misleading. The philosophy of systems is in fact merely the element of systems philosophy called \"systems ontology\" by von Bertalanffy and \"systems metaphysics\" by Laszlo. Systems ontology provides important grounding for systems thinking but does not encompass the essential focus of systems philosophy, which is about articulating a worldview grounded in systems perspectives and humanistic concerns.\n\nSystems philosophy was founded by Ervin Laszlo in 1972 with his book \"Introduction to Systems Philosophy: Toward a New Paradigm of Contemporary Thought\". The \"Foreword\" was written by Ludwig von Bertalanffy.\n\n\"Systems philosophy\", in Ervin Laszlo's sense of the term, means using the systems perspective to model the nature of reality, and to use this to solve important human problems (Laszlo, 1972). Laszlo developed the idea behind systems philosophy independently of von Bertalanffy's work on \"General System Theory\" (published in 1968), but they met before \"Introduction to Systems Philosophy\" was published and the decision to call the new discipline \"systems philosophy\" was their joint one. Writing \"Introduction to Systems Philosophy\" took five years, and in his autobiography Laszlo calls it \"my major work\".\n\nLaszlo's \"great idea\", that made systems philosophy possible, was that the existence of a general system theory that captures the \"patterns\" that recur across the Systemics, who themselves capture \"patterns\" that recur across the specialized disciplines, entails that the world is organised as a whole, and thus has an underlying unity. In this light, nature's special domains (as characterized by the specialized sciences) are contingent expressions or arrangements or projections of an underlying intelligibly ordered reality. If the nature of this underlying unity and the way it conditions phenomenal reality could be understood, it would provide a powerful aid to solving pressing sociological problems and answering deep philosophical questions.\n\nIn the subsequent years, systems philosophy has been developed in four important ways, discussed below.\n\nThe first development was due to Ervin Laszlo himself, and is grounded in the concern that the way in which global resources are exploited does not take global systemic effects into account, and appears likely to have catastrophic global consequences. Work in this area is focused on developing models and interventions that can bring about human thriving in a sustainable way on a global scale. Laszlo promotes work in this area through the Club of Budapest International Foundation, of which he is the founder and President, and the journal \"World Futures: The Journal of General Evolution\", of which he is the editor.\n\nA contemporary of Laszlo, Hasan Ozbekhan in the original proposal to the Club of Rome identified 49 \"Continuous Critical Problems\" (CCPs) that intertwine to generate the Global Problematique. This work was shoved aside by the Club as too humanistic and it adopted the system dynamics approach of Jay Forrester. This decision resulted in the volume \"The Limits to Growth\".\n\nOzbekhan sat down with Alexander Christakis and revisited the 49 CCPs in 1995 using the methodology of \"Structured Dialogic Design\" (SDD) which was not available in 1970. They generated an influence map that identified leverage points for alleviating the global problematique. Subsequently, an online class at Flinders University generated an influence map that bore remarkable similarities to that produce by Ozbekhan and Christakis. In 2013, Reynaldo Trevino and Bethania Arango aligned the \"15 Global Challenges of the Millennium Project\" with the 49 CCPs and generated actions that that shows the influence among the challenges and identifies actions for addressing the leverage points.\n\nThe second strand was inspired by Leo Apostel, and is grounded in the concern that disciplinary worldviews are becoming increasingly fragmented, thus undermining the potential for the inter-disciplinary and trans-disciplinary work required to address the world's pressing social, cultural and economic problems. This effort was initiated via the publication in 1994 by Apostel et al. of the book \"Worldviews: from fragmentation to integration.\" Apostel promoted this agenda by forming the Worldviews Group and founding what is now the Leo Apostel Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in the Free University of Brussels. The work of these units is focused on developing systematic models of the structure and nature of worldviews and using this to promote work towards a unified perspective on the world.\n\nThe third initiative was led by Gerald Midgley, and reflects concerns that developments in philosophy of language, philosophy of science and philosophy of sociology suggested that objectivity in modelling reality is an unattainable ideal, because human values condition what is included or excluded in any investigation (\"content selection\"), and condition how subjects of interest are delineated (\"boundary critique\"). The implication that it may be impossible \"in practice\" to obtain objective agreement about the nature of reality and about the \"rightness\" of theories inspired Midgley to develop practices for systemic interventions that could bypass these debates by focusing on the \"processes\" involved in making boundary judgements in practical situations. This supports systematic intervention practices that exploit, rather than trying to unify, the plurality of theories and methods that reflect different value-conditioned perspectives. This perspective is grounded in the recognition that values have to be overtly taken into account in a realistic systems paradigm, contrary to the mechanism that is still widely used in modelling the behavior of natural systems. The central text of this approach is Midgley's 2000 book \"Systemic Intervention: Philosophy, Methodology, Practice\". This approach is now called critical systems thinking (\"critical\" in the sense of \"reflective\"), and is a major focus of the University of Hull's Centre for Systems Studies, of which Midgley is the Director.\n\nThe fourth development was initiated by David Rousseau, and is grounded in the concern that the value relativism dominating academic discourse is problematic for social and individual welfare, is contrary to the holistic implications of systems philosophy, and is inconsistent with universalist aspects of moral intuitions and spiritual experiences. He is promoting research towards elucidating the ontological foundations of values and normative intuitions, so as to incorporate values into Laszlo's model of the natural systems in a way that is holistic (as Apostel advocated), non-reductive (as Midgley advocates), and empirically supported (as William James advocated). Rousseau promotes this work through the Center for Systems Philosophy, of which he is the founder and Director, and collaborative projects with the University of Hull, where he is a Visiting Fellow in the Centre for Systems Studies and a full member of the Centre for Spirituality Studies.\n\nThe relationship of general system theory (GST) to systems philosophy (SP) has been the subject of a technical debate within the field of systems studies.\n\nGST was presented in 1969 by Von Bertalanffy as a theory that encapsulates \"models, principles, and laws that apply to generalized systems or their subclasses, irrespective of their particular kind, the nature of their component elements, and the relationships or \"forces\" between them. ... It [is] a theory, not of systems of a more or less special kind, but of universal principles applying to systems in general\", so that the subject matter of GST is \"the derivation of those principles which are valid for \"systems\" in general\". However, by the early 1970s he was seeking to broaden the term to stand for the general subject of \"systems inquiry\", arguing that \"systems science\" (which includes the Systemics and the 'classical' version of GST), \"systems technology\" and \"systems philosophy\" are \"aspects\" of GST that \"are not separable in content but distinguishable in intention\". This perspective is supported by modern von Bertalanffy scholars such as David Pouvreau.\n\nAn alternative perspective defends the original intent behind GST, and considers systems philosophy to be an endeavor that has a distinct objective from that of GST. This perspective follows the implications Ervin Laszlo laid out in his \"Introduction to Systems Philosophy\", and regards systems philosophy as following up on an implication of GST, namely that there is an organized reality underlying the phenomenal world, and that GST can guide us to towards an understanding of it which systems philosophy seeks to elucidate. From this perspective GST \"is the foundation upon which we can build ... systems philosophy\". This view was taken up by other systems scientists such as Béla H. Bánáthy, who regarded systems philosophy as one of four distinct \"conceptual domains\" of \"systems inquiry\" alongside \"theory\", \"methodology\" and \"application\", and the systems philosopher David Rousseau, who following Laszlo reiterated that GST provides a formal model of the nature of Nature, but that an \"understanding\" of the nature of Nature requires an interpretation of GST involving concrete commitments that systems philosophy aims to provide.\n\nDavid Pouvreau has suggested that this quandary can be resolved by the coinage of the new term \"general systemology\", to replace the usage of GST in the sense of the encompassing conception that the later Von Bertalanffy envisaged.\n\nAn important debate in systems philosophy reflects on the nature of natural systems, and asks whether reality is really composed of objectively real systems, or whether the concept of \"natural systems\" merely reflects a way in which humans might regard the world in terms relative to their own concerns.\n\nErvin Laszlo's original conception of systems philosophy was as \"a philosophy of natural systems\", and as such to use the systems paradigm to show how nature is organized, and how that organization gives rise to the functional properties that we find exercised in the processes in Nature. However, this was immediately problematic, because it clearly is the case that natural systems are \"open systems\", and continuously exchange matter and energy with their environment. This might make it look as if the boundary between a system and its environment is a function of the interests of the observer, and not something inherent in an actually existing system. This was taken by some to mean that system boundaries are subjective constructions, e.g., C. West Churchman argued that \"boundaries are social or personal constructs that define the limits of the knowledge that is taken as pertinent in an analysis\".\n\nErvin Laszlo acknowledged the problem without conceding to an ultimate relativism, saying \"we can conceive of no radical separation between forming and being formed, and between substance and space and time…the universe is conceived as a continuum [in which] spatio-temporal events disclose themselves as \"stresses\" or \"tensions\" within the constitutive matrix…the cosmic matrix evolves in patterned flows…some flows hit upon configurations of intrinsic stability and thus survive, despite changes in their evolving environment…these we call \"systems\".\" In this way Ervin Laszlo accommodated the intrinsic continuity of the cosmos understood as a plenum while insisting that it contained real systems whose properties emerge from the inherent dynamics of the universe.\n\nAlthough solving social problems means taking social norms and perspectives into account, systems philosophy proposes that these problems have a \"proper\" solution because they are about real systems: as Alexander Laszlo pointed out, natural systems are \"a complex of interacting parts that are interrelated in such a way that the interactions between them sustain a boundary-maintaining entity\". In this way, the identity of a system is maintained over time despite continuing interactions with a changing environment. Systems can be destroyed or transformed, but absent radical interactions (e.g. the fission of an atom or the death of an organism) their identity is dynamically maintained by internal (autopoietic) processes. Although we can draw the boundaries around \"conceptual\" systems in ways that serve our needs or purposes, nature has (according to systems philosophy) intrinsic ways of drawing boundaries, and if we mismatch these in our models our 'solutions' might not work very well in practice.\n\nIn this way the answer to the \"ontological\" question about natural systems (do they exist?) is made conditional on epistemological virtue considerations: systems can be argued to exist if systems practice produces positive results in the real world. This debate in systems philosophy thus parallels the wider discussion in academia about the existence of a real world and the possibility of having objective knowledge about it (see e.g. the \"science wars\"), in which the technological success of science is often used as an argument favoring realism over relativism or constructivism. The systemic debate is far from resolved, as indeed is the case with the wider debate about constructivism, because natural systems include ones that exhibit values, purposes, and intentionality, and it is unclear how to explain such properties given what is known about the foundational nature of natural systems. This debate is therefore connected with the ones in \"philosophy of mind\" about the grounding of consciousnesses, and in \"axiology\" about the grounding of values.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29070181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29070181", "title": "The Enough Moment", "text": "The Enough Moment\n\nThe Enough Moment: Fighting to End Africa's Worst Human Rights Crimes is the second book co-authored by actor Don Cheadle, and co-founder of the Enough Project and human rights activist, John Prendergast. Cheadle and Prendergast's first book, \"\", was published in 2007.\n\n\"The Enough Moment\" details the efforts of both famous and unknown citizen activists, referred to as “Upstanders,” as they work to combat genocide, sexual violence, and child soldierdom in Africa. The book aims to further fuel public demand for an end to the genocide in the Darfur region of Sudan, the sexual violence in Congo resulting from the deadly trade in conflict minerals, and child soldier recruitment in northern Uganda. The book offers harrowing accounts of how victims of these atrocities have found the strength to help other survivors. The book also describes the actions that U.S. citizens have taken to aid those suffering from human rights abuses and provides practical ways in which ordinary citizens can get involved and make a difference. The book was published by Random House on September 7, 2010.\n\nMany celebrity \"Upstanders\" contributed to \"The Enough Moment\". The list includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "376936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376936", "title": "Tărtăria tablets", "text": "Tărtăria tablets\n\nThe Tărtăria tablets /tərtəria/ are three tablets, reportedly discovered in 1961 at a Neolithic site in the village of Tărtăria (about from Alba Iulia), in Romania.\n\nThe dating of the tablets is difficult as they cannot be carbon-dated and the stratigraphy is uncertain, but they may date to around 5300 BC.\n\nThe tablets bear incised symbols and have been the subject of considerable controversy among archaeologists, some of whom claim that the symbols represent the earliest known form of writing in the world. The symbols are thought to be Vinča symbols although some scholars have considered them to be Sumerian.\n\nTwo of the tablets are rectangular and the third is round. They are all small, the round one being only across, and two—one round and one rectangular—have holes drilled through them.\n\nAll three have symbols inscribed only on one face. The unpierced rectangular tablet depicts a horned animal, an unclear figure, and a vegetal motif, a branch or tree. The others have a variety of mainly abstract symbols.\n\nIn 1961 members of a team led by Nicolae Vlassa, an archaeologist at the National Museum of Transylvanian History, Cluj-Napoca in charge of the site excavations, are reported to have unearthed three inscribed but unfired clay tablets, together with 26 clay and stone figurines and a shell bracelet, accompanied by the burnt, broken, and disarticulated bones of an adult female sometimes referred to as \"Milady Tărtăria\".\n\nThe burial has no consensual interpretation, but it has been suggested that the body was, if not that of a shaman or spirit-medium, that of a local most respected wise person.\n\nThere have been disputes as to whether the tablets were actually found at the site and Vlassa was never willing to discuss the circumstances of the find or the stratigraphy.\n\nThe authenticity of the engravings was disputed from the beginning. A recent claim of forgery is based on the similarity between some of the symbols and reproductions of Sumerian symbols in popular Romanian literature available at the time of the discovery.\n\nThe Vinča symbols have been known since the late 19th century excavation by Zsófia Torma (1832–1899) at the Neolithic site of Turdaș (Hungarian: \"Tordos\") in Transylvania, at the time part of Austria-Hungary, the type site of the Tordos culture, part of what is better known as the Vinča culture.\n\nWorkers at the conservation department of the Cluj museum baked the originally unbaked clay tablets to preserve them. This made direct dating of the tablets themselves through carbon 14 method impossible.\n\nThe tablets are generally believed to have belonged to the Vinča-Turdaș culture, which was originally thought to have originated around 2700 BC by Serbian and Romanian archaeologists. The discovery caused great interest in the archeological world as it predated the first Minoan writing, the oldest known writing in Europe.\n\nSubsequent radiocarbon dating of the other Tărtăria finds, extended by association also to the tablets, pushed the date of the site (and therefore of the whole Vinča culture) much further back, to as long ago as 5500 BC, the time of the early Eridu phase of the Sumerian civilization in Mesopotamia. Still, this is disputed in the light of apparently contradictory stratigraphic evidence.\n\nIf the symbols are indeed a form of writing, then writing in the Danubian culture would far predate the earliest Sumerian cuneiform script or Egyptian hieroglyphs. They would thus be the world's earliest known form of writing. This claim remains controversial.\n\nA problem is that there are no independent indications of literacy existing in the Balkans at this period. Sarunas Milisauskas comments that \"it is extremely difficult to demonstrate archaeologically whether a corpus of symbols constitutes a writing system\" and notes that the first known writing systems were all developed by early states to facilitate record-keeping in complex organised societies in the Middle East and Mediterranean. There is no evidence of organised states in the European Neolithic, thus it is unlikely they would have needed the administrative systems facilitated by writing. David Anthony notes that Chinese characters were first used for ritual and commemorative purposes associated with the 'sacred power' of kings; it is possible that a similar usage accounts for the Tărtăria symbols.\n\nThe term Danubian culture was proposed by V. Gordon Childe to describe the first agrarian society in central and eastern Europe. This hypothesis and the apparition of writing in this space is sustained by Marco Merlini , Harald Haarmann, Joan Marler, Gheorghe Lazarovici and many others.\n\nThis group of artefacts, including the tablets, have some relation with the culture developed in the Black Sea – Aegean area. Similar artefacts are found in Bulgaria (e.g. the Gradeshnitsa tablets) and northern Greece (the Dispilio Tablet). The material and the style used for the Tartaria artefacts show some similarities to those used in the Cyclades area, as two of the statuettes are made of alabaster.\n\nColin Renfrew argues that the apparent similarities with Sumerian symbols are deceptive: \"To me, the comparison made between the signs on the Tărtăria tablets and those of proto-literate Sumeria carry very little weight. They are all simple pictographs, and a sign for a goat in one culture is bound to look much like the sign for a goat in another. To call these Balkan signs 'writing' is perhaps to imply that they had an independent significance of their own communicable to another person without oral contact. This I doubt.\"\n\nThe meaning (if any) of the symbols is unknown, and their nature has been the subject of much debate.\n\nIf they do comprise a script, it is not known what kind of writing system they represent.\n\nScholars who conclude that the inscribed symbols are writing are basing their assessment on a few assumptions which are not universally endorsed. \n\nSome archaeologists who support the idea that they do represent writing, notably Marija Gimbutas, have proposed that they are fragments of a system dubbed the Old European Script.\n\nOthers consider the pictograms to be accompanied by random scribbles.\n\nVlassa interpreted one of the Tărtăria tablets as a hunting scene and the other two with signs as a kind of primitive writing similar to the early pictograms of the Sumerians.\n\nSome have suggested that the symbols may have been used as marks of ownership or as the focus of religious rituals.\n\nAn alternative suggestion is that they may have been merely uncomprehending imitations of more advanced cultures, although this explanation is made rather unlikely by the great antiquity of the tablets — there were no known literate cultures at the time from which the symbols could have been adopted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40383635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40383635", "title": "Undocumented youth in the United States", "text": "Undocumented youth in the United States\n\nUndocumented youth live within the United States without legal citizenship status. Brought by their parents, undocumented youth enter the United States illegally. An estimated 1.1 million undocumented minors resided in the U.S. as of 2010. Undocumented youth make up sixteen percent of the undocumented population as a whole. Undocumented students are school-aged immigrants who entered the United States without inspection or overstayed their visas and are present in the United States with or without their parents. They face unique legal uncertainties and limitations within the United States educational system. These students are often called the 1.5 generation, as they have spent a majority of their lives in the United States. Although some 1.5 generation students find their way to legal status, many are undocumented. \nAs children, youth are granted access to public K-12 education and benefits regardless of citizenship status. After navigating through primary education, undocumented youth transition into an adulthood that does not grant them those provisions. Without need to prove their legality within the country until they come of age, undocumented youth can live their childhood years without knowing that they do not have a legal status. \n\nIt has been noted that many undocumented youth experience a period of adapting to a new identity (being \"illegal\") that is stigmatized and unexpected. Coming of age, many undocumented youth become negatively distinguished from their former peers because of their inability to work legally, obtain a driver's license, or participate in secondary education. These limitations with regards to citizenship frequently prove to be obstacles to the youth's opportunity for social and civic engagement.\n\nUndocumented students may not know how to navigate the higher education system in their state and often leads to students not attending college. Undocumented students might assume that it is out of their financial means or not available to them due to their residency status. This leaves undocumented students in a vulnerable place because they are not gaining the educational experience and are not eligible for legal work. According to the US: The Human Rights of Dreamers, Also that Undocumented students should be secured while they live in the United States. The only way the child entered the United States is by their parents. Some people believe they shouldn't be penalized for their parents actions. Others believe they shouldn't be allowed to benefit from the illegal actions of their parents. Also there are not a lot of immigrants eligible for the Dream Act. According to Undocumented Undergraduates and the Liminal States of Immigration Reform, Undocumented students still have a lot of challenges while attending college in the United States. A lot of undocumented students have issues with certain people they can trust within their community. Based on their status of being considered an alien in the United States they feel secluded. Undocumented immigrants feel as though they don't belong in the United States that because of how people treat them. \n\nUndocumented immigrants, particularly students, are a difficult subgroup of the population to research; there is not much current statistical data available. As a result of their precarious legal and social situation, these people are hesitant to identify themselves as being unauthorized, and the process of estimating statistics and drawing conclusions can be lengthy and cumbersome. While exact numbers are not known, there has been an increased emphasis on the challenges facing undocumented students nationwide. \n\nIt is difficult to determine national statistics for the demographic makeup of undocumented students. However, it can be inferred that statistics for undocumented students would be very closely related to those for the unauthorized immigrant population as a whole. Since 2014, approximately 11.1 million such immigrants live in the United States, which has seen only a small increase since 2007. Approximately 17%, roughly two million, of these immigrants are under the age of 18, about 65 thousand graduate from high school each year, and only 5-10% of them continue to higher education.\n\nWhile the undocumented student population comes from all over the world, a majority come from Mexico and other Central American countries, with approximately 6.7 million came from Mexico. The second-largest sending region is Asia. In 2012, the Philippine undocumented population in the U.S. consisted of approximately 310,000 people and there were 260,000 such immigrants from India. Although often left out of the conversation, Asian and Pacific Islanders are a significant population in the undocumented community. The cultural expectations of immigrants in these communities often influence a more silenced and hidden existence than other cultures. There tends to be a heavier stigma against those who are undocumented, even within the culture.\n\nPublic schooling allows undocumented youth to assimilate into society. Graduation for these youth serves as a traumatic change in status and identity from student to \"illegal alien\" and \"illegal worker.\" This \"state of shock\" causes depressed motivation and financial anxiety causing youth to drop out of high school. 40 percent of undocumented adults ages 18–24 do not complete high school. Of those that complete high school, only 49 percent attend college. Many youths reported a feeling of falling through the cracks, instances where they were not able to get assistance from their educational institutions. The inability to receive federal and state student financial aid, as well as low family incomes, limits access for undocumented youth to attend post secondary schooling. In 2006, Hispanic youth had the lowest educational attainment out of any ethnic or racial group. Parents can often not provide financial assistance and immigrant youths carry financial burden within their households. \n\nAccess to a college education can help improve the status of undocumented youth. Graduating college allows youth to improve labor market skills and makes them eligible for jobs where employers might potentially sponsor a temporary legal visa. A college education also increases youth marriageability increasing the chances for youth to marry a legal citizen and obtain legal status through familial relationship. \nThe majority of undocumented children are growing up with legal access to public education but face legal barriers to higher education (Abrego, 2006). Abrego interviewed a girl named Alisa who came to the United States at the age of five from Guatemala; she encountered the difficulties of higher education. She was a student who excelled academically in high school and was admitted to the University of California. Alisa became disheartened due to her status and was unable to be given financial aid. Some researchers explain that undocumented children face an economic barrier when pursuing a higher education and find that because of this they are unable to attend a University (Abrego; Shields and Behrman, 2004; Gonzales, 2011; Crosnoe and Turley, 2011). Due to this, The Dream Act was proposed to the Senate and the House of Representatives and was only 13 states that include California, Connecticut, Illinois, Kansas, Maryland, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, Oklahoma, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wisconsin passed their state laws. These states allow undocumented children to pay in-state tuition based on their attendance and graduation from a state high school (Schmid 2013).\n\nThe Pew Hispanic Center estimates that 1.5 million undocumented students currently reside in the United States. Of these students, approximately 765,000 arrived in the United States before turning sixteen. It is also estimated that there were 360,000 undocumented high school graduates between the ages of eighteen and twenty-four in the United States in 2006. However, it is estimated that each year only 5 to 10 percent of undocumented high-school graduates—about 65,000 nationwide—are eligible to attend college. In 2005, only about 50,000 undocumented students enrolled in U.S. colleges and universities. Of these college students, 18,000 were enrolled in California community colleges in the 2005-2006 school year as a result of financial accessibility. According to Roberto Gonzalez, Professor of Sociology at the University of Washington, \"Given the opportunity to receive additional education and move into better-paying jobs, undocumented students would pay more in taxes and have more money to spend and invest in the U.S. economy.\"\n\nThere is no federal law that prohibits the admission of undocumented immigrants to U.S. colleges and universities, public or private, nor does federal law require students to prove citizenship in order to enter U.S. institutions of higher education. However, every institution has its own policies on admitting undocumented students. For example, following a 2003 recommendation by the state attorney general, many 4-year state colleges in Virginia require applicants to submit proof of citizenship or legal residency, and refuse admission to students without documentation. This policy is not, however, a state law. South Carolina and Alabama, do not allow undocumented students to apply to public universities\n\nAs of 2015, there were 11 million unauthorized immigrants in the United States, a small decline from the Pew Research Center's estimate of 11.3 million for 2009. In 2014, about 3.9 million students in kindergarten through 12th grade in U.S. public and private schools were children of unauthorized immigrants. While 3.2 million of this population were U.S. born, approximately 725,000 or 1.3% were unauthorized students themselves and potentially not receiving the financial resources they need to pursue higher education in the United States.\n\nPrograms like DACA, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, creates open space for undocumented students to qualify for postsecondary education benefits discussed in policies like IIRIRA. The language in PRWORA, still bars DACA recipients to receive public benefits since they are not “qualified aliens.” The language in both PRWORA and IIRIRA are vague enough that they allow states to decide how to address tuition rates and state financial aid for their students. Although many states use these statutes as the reason to deny federal and state financial aid many others argue that the definition of public benefits does not include offering in-state tuition to undocumented students.\n\nThere is no federal or state law that prohibits the admission of these immigrants to U.S. colleges and universities, but instead, nonpermanent residents and undocumented students are treated differently from one state to the next, resulting in no cohesive process and potential confusion for undocumented students. Research has found that immigrant students lack information about financing college and are thus less likely to apply for and take advantage of student loans. With access to the necessary information, support, and financial resources, however, higher education – and the opportunities that come with it – is certainly a viable option for undocumented students.\n\nAccording to the uLEAD Network, as of 2017, there are 16 states that offer in-state tuition rates to undocumented students who meet specific criteria, with several of these offering state-funded financial aid as well:\nIn addition to these 16 states, Hawaii, Michigan, Oklahoma, and Rhode Island allow this through the school system, their Board of Regents. Virginia only allows in-state tuition for DACA students.\n\nWhile some states opt to pass their own legislation allowing in-state tuition for undocumented students, it does not fully bridge the gap for financial aid. Some states, like Georgia, have worked against education for undocumented students by forbidding enrollment in some colleges.\n\nOutside of the aforementioned states offering state financial aid, undocumented students are not eligible for federal financial aid, which makes the cost of tuition and fees an even greater obstacle to higher education. Undocumented students must rely primarily on private scholarships as a source of funding for their postsecondary education. There are a few private scholarships that do not require the student to be a U.S. citizen or resident or have a social security number in order to apply. The Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund (MALDEF) maintains the most comprehensive listing of such scholarships.\n\nPrivate colleges and universities set their own financial aid policies. Some offer financial aid in the form of grants and scholarships to undocumented students.\n\nUnderstanding how to navigate the higher education labyrinth is a learned social practice, a skill acquired through social networks, parent understanding, and access to the information. The opportunities to learn about college access is inequitably taught to undocumented students. Undocumented students face many challenges in their pre-collegiate years that can inhibit their knowledge to access to higher education in the future. Most undocumented students come from working class or working poor families, which often forces them to live in communities where they become vulnerable to crimes, poor housing conditions, high unemployment, and underperforming schools Many of the schools they attend face high teacher turnover, overcrowding, and inadequate teacher preparation. Many of the students are placed into language development courses, which often do not provide the rigorous coursework needed for college preparation. These students also may struggle with their schoolwork due to the discontinuity in their education. Some students arrive in the United States after attending schools in their country of birth. Adjusting to the education system in the United States can be a challenge for students. Some may be behind because their previous schools were not teaching the same curriculum or if their schools were ahead of the curriculum, students might lose interest in their new schools. Undocumented students can also struggle with their need to contribute money to their household. Some students work as migrant farmers alongside their parents, this economic need can set them back in their education and in their path to understanding the steps to higher education. All of these things can inhibit undocumented students from successfully preparing for higher education.\n\nAnother barrier undocumented students face in their access to higher education is the lack of resources and adequate support from school professionals. Many school professionals—teachers, counselors, other personnel—are not always aware of their state's policies regarding admission, tuition and financial aid for undocumented students. Some school professionals are even unaware which students on their campus are undocumented. School professionals, often, do not receive training about policies that affect students and some have acknowledged that they only learned because of interactions with students or what they have learned through the media. Some undocumented students, who have been surveyed regarding their educational experience, claimed to feel as if they “lucked out,” having someone to mentor them in college access. Unfortunately, not all students feel this way. Although some students do acknowledge having an influential teacher or college counselor, many students feel unsupported or feel as they were given incorrect information.\n\nHaving college access information available to support undocumented students is not only a tool that undocumented students can use for themselves, it is information that they can then pass down to others. Many parents of undocumented students do not have the knowledge to help their child pursue higher education, but these families have strong family networks, and with accurate information, students will then be able to share it with the younger children in their networks. If community groups and school professionals reach out to undocumented students in ways that work within their culture, these students can have in increased chance of attending higher education.\n\nYouth brought to the United States as adolescents are at greater risk for adjustment difficulties. Many undergo acculturated distress; poor mental health, depression, anxiety, a feeling of alienation, and identity confusion. Markers in the transition into adulthood, such as finding work, applying for college, and obtaining a driver's license, all require legal status to obtain. Youth undergo three transition periods as they enter into adulthood; discovery, learning to be illegal, and coping. The first, discovery (ages 16–18) is the time where youth first discover that they are illegal. Within this period, key transitional markers such as obtaining a driver's license and applying for college are experienced. These markers often become the first time many youth learn that they are undocumented. The second period, learning to be illegal (ages 18–24) is a series of life alterations in which youth learn to live as an undocumented immigrant. This includes finding work as an undocumented immigrant and postponing secondary education. The third, coping (ages 25–29) is adjusting to lower expectations and realizing the true limits of their rights. This leads many youth to follow into the same job pool as their undocumented parents.\n\nThis gap still exists between higher education and financial aid for undocumented students. Since undocumented students are not eligible for most forms of financial aid, merit scholarships are not feasible as they are most often restrict their eligibility to U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Undocumented students are not eligible for federal aid, thus, benefits that come from FAFSA or Pell Grants do not apply to these students. Most state-based aid is also out of reach for undocumented students so grants, work study and loans are not options. States opt to pass their own legislation allowing in-state tuition for undocumented students; while this is an important step for undocumented students, it does not fully bridge the gap for financial aid. Some states, like Georgia, have worked against education for undocumented students by forbidding enrollment in some colleges. Statistics show $11.8 billion in taxes each year comes from undocumented immigrants (Tax Contributions). Findings also show that there would be an $845 million in tax revenue with the Obama Administration's executive action that includes the implementation of DACA and its expansion. These findings also show that a full immigration reform would increase tax revenue by $2.2 billion (Tax Contributions). Giving these groups the availability for higher education aid would only increase these benefits through their consumption and investment in the economy.\n\nEven though there are several barriers undocumented students encounter in higher education, they continue to have high academic aspirations. A quantitative study described that Latino students see higher education as a road to better themselves. Their stories of aspirations are geared towards helping others and giving back to their community. Giving back helps to affirm their social citizenship, existence, and validiates their access to higher education.\n\nEducational institutions play a role in promoting civic engagement among students. When schools provide volunteer opportunities and require community service to graduate, there's a higher chance that students will civically engaged after graduation. In a qualitative study, Munoz found that undocumented female Mexican college students expressed frustration, helplessness, and fear because of their illegal status. However, they also disclosed being very involved in college extracurricular activities to feel a sense of belonging and validation. Munoz's qualitative study also indicates that 40% of undocumented students chose to be involved by participating in community service or mentoring activities to assist undocumented youth like themselves.\n\nDue to their unclear legal status, some youth do generate feelings of being an outsider and dissociate from civic engagement. Through an online survey of open-ended questions, Perez, Espinoza, Ramos, Coronado, and Cortes reported that in elementary school, 38% of undocumented students were civically engaged. In middle school, rates increased to 41%. In high school, 73% participated in civic engagement with 34% reporting spending more than 40 hours per year doing volunteer work. Also, 7% participated in social services, 3% were engaged in activism, 29% tutored other students, and 55% operated administrative work. In general, 86% of all respondents also participated in extracurricular activities during high school. In addition to college, 55% participated in some form of civic engagement. Even though undocumented Latino students had a high percentage in civic engagement, they also reported higher levels of feeling rejection because of their illegal status. Ultimately, Perez, Espinoza, Ramos, Coronado, and Cortes identified feelings of rejection were not correlated with lack of involvement and that most undocumented Latino youth going to college are engaging in U.S. civic life.\n\nUndocumented youth change and acculturate to multiple circumstances that surround them by studying hard, following the codes of conduct, and acting as good citizens of the United States. Chang, Torrez, Ferguson, and Sagar conducted a qualitative study of 18 students, ages 18 and above, who identified as undocumented or were once undocumented, They found that students often had to be involved ad engaged in the community to feel accepted. Undocumented students navigate the best they could between social and cultural intrusions. Students often create a foundation to keep moving forward and not give up by taking advantage of their community cultural wealth as a mechanism to keep hope.\n\nEven though there are political restrictions for undocumented students to self-advocate, multiple students remained hopeful because they stood by the ideal cultural citizenship even if it seemed unattainable. Chang, Torrez, Ferguson, and Sagar's study showed that participants' process of interpreting, integrating, and interjecting themselves as valuable objects with hope that even from their socially and social positions they strongly engaged in different cultural worlds to achieve the American dream. Undocumented students keep high aspirations and participate in civil engagement, disregarding the barriers they may face due to their illegal status in the United States.\n\nIn recent years, undocumented youth have gathered to lobby for legislative action. Organizations such as the Education Not Deportation (END) Our Pain Organization have been established to demand moratorium for youth eligible for the Development, Relief, Education for Alien Minors (DREAM Act) Act which would grant conditional legal status to those brought here under the age of 16 if they attend college or join the military. Throughout 2009 and 2010, a number of sit-ins, hunger strikes, marches, and social media campaigns were conducted by many activist organizations. United We Dream organized 500 youth to participate in a National DREAM Act graduation in Washington combined with 15 more ceremonies nationwide. Between September and December 2010 pro-immigrant groups generated over 840,000 call, faces, and emails in favor of the DREAM Act, as well as 81,000 petitions delivered to targeted Senate offices. Youth activists often invoke a feeling of coming out, relating to the same action experienced by the LGBTQ community, to protest for protection of their rights despite threats of arrest, imprisonment, and deportation.\n\nIn the United States, children are given the right to an elementary and secondary education (K-12) regardless of their immigration status.\n\nPlyler v. Doe, 457 U.S. 202 (1982), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States struck down a state statute denying funding for education to undocumented immigrant children. The case simultaneously struck down a municipal school district's attempt to charge such immigrants an annual $1,000 tuition fee to compensate for state funding.[1] The Court found that where states limit the rights afforded to people (specifically children) based on their status as immigrants, this limitation must be examined under an intermediate scrutiny standard to determine whether it furthers a substantial goal of the State.\n\nPrior to 1975, all students in Texas were able to attend public elementary and secondary school. The state government provided funding to schools based on the number of students enrolled. In May 1975, the state legislature amended the Texas Education Code to provide that only U.S. citizens or lawfully admitted noncitizens would be counted for financial aid purposes. Schools were given the option to allow or reject undocumented students and to charge tuition if they chose to accept them. School officials in Tyler, Texas, under the direction of Superintendent James Plyler, began charging $1,000 annual tuition to all undocumented students—about 60 from a student body of 1,600. In September 1977, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF) filed a class action on behalf of sixteen Mexican undocumented students of the Tyler district.\n\nThe trial court found that the Texas law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution because it amounted to a total deprivation of education without a rational basis. The court rejected the state's arguments regarding the cost of educating undocumented children, finding that the federal government largely subsidized the additional costs that the education of these children entailed and that “it is not sufficient justification that a law saves money.”\n\nIn order to comply with Plyler, education policy analysts have suggested that schools may not:\n\nPlyler does not extend to postsecondary education, but at least guarantees undocumented students the opportunity to receive a high school degree.\n\nOn June 15, 2012, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced the executive (President Obama and his administration) decision to defer immigration enforcement for undocumented youth who meet specific requirements set under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) plan. This order provided temporary relief from immigration enforcement and deportation proceedings, as well as the authorization to work. In Janet Napolitano's memorandum to the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Secretary of Homeland Security stated that immigration laws should be enforced sensibly and with consideration to the individual situation. In the case for these young people living in the U.S, she stated that they had no intent on breaking any law and should have the opportunity to be productive people in this country.\n\nIndividuals may request DACA if they meet the following requirements:\n\nApplicants who meet the guidelines are granted a two-year reprieve and are granted work authorization. An estimated 1.8 million undocumented youth are eligible for deferred action. As of August 2013, 557,000 immigrants applied for deferred action and 400,562 have been approved. In reaction to the executive order, some states such as Arizona and Nebraska announced that they would not prescribe state benefits such as granting driver's licenses to recipients. The majority of states announced that they would grant driver's licenses to recipients along with Michigan and Iowa who reversed their decisions to deny state benefits. Without permanent residence, youth granted deferred action still cannot receive federal financial aid. Access to secondary education is still limited, but youth who are granted the ability to work have the potential for increased wages and the ability to pay tuition costs.\n\nAccording to the Migration Policy Institute, approximately two million people are eligible for the DACA program, as the programs rules currently stand. In 2014 President Obama announced an expansion of DACA; removing the maximum age limit, changing the entry date to 2010, and extending the deferment period to three years. This extended program could potentially allow an additional 300 thousand people eligibility. As of 2016, the expansion was placed on hold due to a court injunction, in \"United States v. Texas\".\n\nDACA is sometimes seen as legislation that provides a pathway to citizenship or as a way of receiving lawful immigration status. Neither is true, the deferment only provides the qualified recipients to have a lawful presence, meaning the authorities cannot force them to leave the country although they still lack legal immigration status. DACA statuses can be terminated or not renewed based on the discretion of DHS, as it is not a law. DACA is a presidential executive authority, which also means that it can change based on future presidents. DACA, therefore, creates open space for undocumented students to qualify for postsecondary education benefits.\n\nIn 1996, Congress approved the Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA) to improve immigration law in the United States. Section 505 of IIRIRA prohibits public higher education institutions from giving those who are unlawfully present in the United States postsecondary education benefits, on the basis of residency in a State, that are not being given to U.S. citizens or nationals.\n\nThe Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (PRWORA) was President Bill Clinton's major welfare reform. PRWORA is most known for the creation of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Family (TANF) program. Additionally, PRWORA set the standards for how courts and institutions determined the eligibility of federal, state, and local benefits and services. The reform states those who are not “qualified aliens” are ineligible for federal public benefits. The act also gives states the discretionary power to determine the tuition rates publicly funded schools and the authority to provide state financial aid. If states do not pass specific legislation regarding these matters then federal legislation superseded and inherently prohibits state financial aid for unauthorized immigrants.\n\nThe Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) Act is a federal bill that would permit states to determine state residency for higher education or military purposes. This bill was first introduced in the Senate on August 1, 2001, and was most recently re-introduced in Congress on March 26, 2009. A Senate filibuster blocked it on December 18, 2010. It would provide a mechanism for undocumented students of good moral character to become legal permanent residents. The DREAM Act initially allowed beneficiaries to qualify for federal student aid but was changed in the 2010 version of the bill. In order to be eligible, individuals must have come to the U.S. as children (under the age of 16), graduated from a U.S. high school and be a long-term resident (at least 5 years). An age cap of 35 was also set. The latest version of the DREAM Act does not grant legal immigrant status to anyone for at least two years. Previous versions of the Act would have immediately granted legal immigrant status to eligible individuals. Many other limitations were also included in this latest version, among them the removal of access to healthcare benefits and limits to chain migration.\n\n"}
{"id": "51690399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51690399", "title": "Yesemek Quarry and Sculpture Workshop", "text": "Yesemek Quarry and Sculpture Workshop\n\nYesemek Quarry and Sculpture Workshop is an open-air museum and archaeological site in Gaziantep Province, Turkey. The site was a quarry in Hittite times and occupies a 100000 m area, making it the largest known stonemasonry workshop from the ancient Near East.\n\nThe museum is to the south of the village of Yesemek in İslahiye ilçe (district) of Gaziantep Province at . It is situated on the western slopes of the mounteneous area and to the east of Tahtalı Dam reservoir. Its distance to village is about , to İslahiye is and to Gaziantep is . Visitors can drive to the site from Gaziantep, İskenderun or Antakya.\n\nThe ruins were partially unearthed by Austrian archaeologist Felix von Luschan during his excavations at Zincirli to the north of the area in 1890. Between 1957-1961 Turkish archaeologist Bahadır Alkım continued excavations, revealing around 200 sculptures. The most recent work was carried out in the 1990s by İlhan Temizsoy, director of the Museum of Anatolian Civilizations and brought another hundred objects to light. The site is now an open-air museum administered by the Gaziantep Museum of Archaeology.\n\nThe site was a workshop of sculpture. It was established by the Hittite emperor Suppiluliuma I (r.1344–1322 BC) . With the collapse of the Hittite Empire, activity probably ceased, but the workshop was again active in the ninth century BC, when Yesemek was part of the Aramaic kingdom of Sam'al. The artefacts from this period show Aramaic and Assyrian influence. In the 8th century BC, the region came under Assyrian control and the site was abandoned once more. It is not clear whether the artisans simply stopped working or were transported to the Assyrian capital. The area around the workshop is mostly covered by basalt and the raw material of the sculptures is basalt. The total area of the workshop is about . Among the 300 unearthed items there are sphinx, lions, chariot, gods etc.\n\nThere are several basic types of sculpture on the site. The majority are sphinxes with a female head and a lion's body or lions (some of which are winged). These sphinxes and lions were probably intended to flank the gates of Hittite cities, palaces and temples, and are very similar to the door sculptures found at Hattusa and Alaca Höyük. In addition, there are groups of mountain gods with arms crossed over their chests, reliefs of hunting scenes, and a bear-person. These objects are believed to be special commissions. The mountain gods closely resemble the ones that were used as supports in the well sanctuary at Eflatun Pınar. Sculptures can be seen in all stages of production. A particularly noteworthy sphinx found at Zincirli is now on display in the Museum of Gaziantep.\n\nIn the quarry, large blocks of red basalt were broken up, by striking pre-existing cracks with hammer and chisel. Wooden wedges were inserted into these cracks and water was poured over them. The waterlogged wood expanded, splitting off large fragments. The rough shape of figures was carved from these with a chisel and the outer surface was smoothed. Fine carving followed and then the piece was polished. The final details were generally not done in the workshop, but at their final destinations. How they were transported from the quarry is not clear.\n\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on April 4, 2002 in the Cultural category.\n\n"}
{"id": "420016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420016", "title": "Yiddish Book Center", "text": "Yiddish Book Center\n\nThe Yiddish Book Center (National Yiddish Book Center), located on the campus of Hampshire College in Amherst, Massachusetts, United States, is a cultural institution dedicated to the preservation of books in the Yiddish language, as well as the culture and history those books represent. It is one of ten western Massachusetts museums constituting the Museums10 consortium.\n\nThe Yiddish Book Center was founded in 1980 by Aaron Lansky, then a twenty-four-year-old graduate student of Yiddish literature and, , the center's president. In the course of his studies, Lansky realized that untold numbers of irreplaceable Yiddish books were being discarded by American-born Jews unable to read the language of their Yiddish-speaking parents and grandparents. He organized a nationwide network of \"zamlers\" (volunteer book collectors) and launched a campaign to save the world’s remaining Yiddish books. Lansky recounts the origins of the center in his 2004 memoir, \"Outwitting History\".\n\nAt the time Lansky began his work, scholars estimated there were 70,000 Yiddish books still extant and recoverable. Since then, the Yiddish Book Center has recovered more than a million volumes, and it continues to receive thousands of new books each year from around the world.\n\nIn 1997, the Yiddish Book Center moved to its current site in Amherst, Massachusetts, a 49,000-square-foot complex that echoes the rooflines of an East European \"shtetl\" (Jewish town). The center is home to permanent and traveling exhibits, a Yiddish book repository, educational programs, and the annual Yidstock: The Festival of New Yiddish Music.\n\nIn 2010, the organization dropped the initial word \"National\" from its name, and is currently known as \"Yiddish Book Center.\"\n\nBased on a score of 100, Charity Navigator rated the Yiddish Book Center 79.82% for its financials and 97% for accountability and transparency, resulting in an overall grade of 85.57.\n\nThe center has drawn on its duplicate holdings to distribute books to students and scholars, and to establish or strengthen collections at more than 700 research libraries, schools, and museums around the world.\n\nThe Yiddish Book Center includes a number of different collections: \n\nThe center offers public programs related to Yiddish and Jewish culture. Each year, the center hosts two visiting exhibits in its Brechner Gallery. It also has a number of permanent exhibits: the Lee & Alfred Hutt Discovery Gallery, an interactive exhibit on Jewish cultural identity; \"Unquiet Pages\" focused on Yiddish literature; \"A Living Connection: Photographs from the An-sky Expeditions, 1912-14\" on the work of ethnographer S. An-sky; \"Sholem-Bayes: Reflections on the American Jewish Home\"; the Nancy B. Weinstein, \"Kindervinkl\" (children's corner); the Appelbaum-Driker Theater, with exhibits on Yiddish film and radio; and a reproduction Yiddish Print Shop with displays about the Yiddish press in the twentieth century.\n\n\"Pakn Treger\" (Yiddish for \"book peddler\"), the magazine of the Yiddish Book Center, is an English-language magazine that covers subjects related to Yiddish culture and literature as well as news from the center. Its annual translation issue, a digital publication, features newly translated works of Yiddish literature.\n\nThe center's educational programs include the Steiner Summer Yiddish Program for college students, the Great Jewish Books Summer Program for high school students, a Great Jewish Books Teacher Workshop, a fellowship program, a translation fellowship, and Tent: Encounters with Jewish Culture, as well as online and on-site classes for adult learners, including YiddishSchool. The center also offers a field trip program for middle and high school students.\n\nIn 2001, Ruthe B. Cowl (1912–2008) of Laredo, Texas, donated $1 million to create the Jack and Ruthe B. Cowl Center, which promotes \"Yiddish literary, artistic, musical, and historical knowledge and accomplishment\" at the center. Early in 2007, Cowl donated another $750,000 to create the Cowl Jewish Leadership Program for promising college students.\n\nIn 2013, the center launched a translation effort that includes a translation fellowship program; a publishing venture; Taytsh.org, a website and interactive resource for working Yiddish-to-English translators; and an annual digital \"Pakn Treger\" translation anthology.\n\n"}
