{"id": "12534999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12534999", "title": "39M Csaba", "text": "39M Csaba\n\nThe 39M Csaba was an armoured car produced for the Royal Hungarian Army during World War II.\n\nHungarian expatriate Nicholas Straussler designed several armoured cars for Britain while living there between the two world wars. Straussler came to an agreement with the Weiss Manfred factory of Csepel, Budapest to produce vehicles from his designs for use in his home country - the most prominent was the Csaba (named after the son of Attila the Hun) which was designed based on his experience of the Alvis AC2 armoured car.\n\nAfter successful trials in 1939, the Hungarian Army placed an order for 61, and a further order for an additional 40 vehicles was placed in 1940. Of these, twenty were used as actual fighting vehicles, with the remainder serving as armoured command cars and reconnaissance vehicles.\n\nThe Csaba had a 20 mm Solothurn anti-tank rifle and an 8 mm machine gun fixed on a centrally mounted turret, with 9 mm armoured plating. The vehicle was also equipped with a detachable 8 mm light machine gun fired through the rear hatch in the anti-aircraft role. The crew could dismount and carry this MG when conducting reconnaissance on foot. It also had two driving positions - one at the front as normal, and an additional one at the rear.\n\nThe 40M Csaba was a command version armed only with the turret-mounted 8 mm machine gun. This vehicle was fitted with a second R-4T radio, which had a large lattice radio mast.\n\n"}
{"id": "1036242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036242", "title": "Abecedarian", "text": "Abecedarian\n\nAbecedarians were a 16th-century German sect of Anabaptists who rejected all human learning. Questions have been raised as to the historical accuracy of the name and sect.\n\nAccording to the original \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", the Abecedarians were a 16th-century German sect of Anabaptists who affected an absolute disdain for all human knowledge, contending that God would enlighten his elect from within themselves, giving them knowledge of necessary truths by visions and ecstasies, with which human learning would interfere.\n\nThey rejected every other means of instruction, and claimed that to be saved one must even be ignorant of the first letters of the alphabet; whence their name, A-B-C-darians. They also considered the study of theology as a species of idolatry, and regarded learned men who did any preaching as falsifiers of God's word.\n\nNicholas Storch led this sect, preaching that the teaching of the Holy Spirit was all that was necessary.\nAndreas Karlstadt adopted these views, abandoned his title of doctor and became a street porter.\n\nEarly Anabaptists were viewed disdainfully by their adversaries as a radical peasant movement. Thus some consider the extant descriptions to be an elitist caricature of either a particular Anabaptist group or Anabaptists as a whole. Most more recent reference works have ceased to mention the group at all. No equivalent entry was present in the \"New Catholic Encyclopedia\". No historical references later than the early 20th century mention these claims.\n\nJohn Bell stated their founder's name was Stork, a disciple of Luther, and that \"this sect was some time considerable in Germany\".\n\nIn the graphic novel \"The Calculus Affair\", Captain Haddock uses the word \"Abecedarian\" as an epithet.\n"}
{"id": "40372850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40372850", "title": "Amos-4", "text": "Amos-4\n\nAMOS 4 is an Israeli commercial communication satellite, part of the AMOS series of satellites. The satellite is positioned at the 65° E longitude in the geostationary belt. It lifted off on 31 August 2013, 20:05 UTC from Baikonur, Kazakhstan. Transmission and communication services given by this satellite include direct distribution of TV and radio translations, TV and radio translations to communication centers, distribution of internet services and data transmissions to communication networks. It offers coverage across Southeast Asia along with high power coverage beams offering communication links from East Asia to the Middle East.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5370859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5370859", "title": "Assizes of Capua", "text": "Assizes of Capua\n\nThe Assizes of Capua were the first of three great legislative acts of the kingdom of Sicily of Frederick II of Sicily, Holy Roman Emperor. They were the first, promulgated at Capua in 1220, before the Assizes of Messina on 1221 and the Constitutions of Melfi of 1231.\n\nThe Assizes were promulgated on the mainland of the realm as they were a reform of the Assizes of Ariano, promulgated by Frederick's grandfather Roger II in 1140 at Ariano Irpino, nearby to Capua. The intent was, as in the previous Assizes and his coming Constitutions, the strengthening of the royal power in the kingdom, usually at the expense of the noblesse.\n"}
{"id": "49048295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49048295", "title": "Association of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgeons of Asia", "text": "Association of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgeons of Asia\n\nThe Association of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgeons of Asia is an international association of Asian Cardiothoracic surgeons. It was founded in 1972 by cardiothoracic surgeons in the Asian countries and its headquartered in Quezon City, Philippines. \nThe association consists of members from 44 countries and to be considered for membership, a cardiothoracic surgeon must have a track record of distinction in the field and have made meritorious contributions to the knowledge of cardiothoracic disease and its surgical treatment.\n"}
{"id": "41791135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41791135", "title": "Boila", "text": "Boila\n\nBoila ( or ; ; ) was a title worn by some of the Bulgar aristocrats (mostly of regional governors and noble warriors) in First Bulgarian Empire (681-1018). For the linguists, the title \"Boila\" is predecessor or old form of the title \"Bolyar\".\n\nThe Boil(a)s were two types: internal (\"great\") and external (\"small\"). The internal Boilas were governors of the \"Comitates (administrative regions)\".\n\nMost of the popular linguists says that \"Boila\" has old-Turkic origin and the meaning of the word can be translated as \"noble\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23124902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23124902", "title": "Burundi National Radio and Television", "text": "Burundi National Radio and Television\n\nLa Radiodiffusion-Télévision Nationale du Burundi (RTNB) (Burundi National Radio and Television) is the national broadcaster of the Central African state of Burundi. Burundi National Radio and Television currently broadcasts in Kirundi, French and Swahili and English.\n"}
{"id": "37992592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37992592", "title": "Cabascabo", "text": "Cabascabo\n\nCabascabo is a 1968 Nigerien-French drama film directed by Oumarou Ganda. It was entered into the 6th Moscow International Film Festival, where it won a Diploma.\n\n"}
{"id": "7254400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7254400", "title": "Chef de Cabinet", "text": "Chef de Cabinet\n\nIn several French-speaking countries, the Chef de Cabinet (French, literally \"Cabinet Chief\") is a senior civil servant who acts as an aide or Private Secretary to a government figure, typically a minister. They typically work in the ministerial office (\"cabinet\").\n\nThe title is used by the head of an office in the United Nations Secretariat, appointed by the Secretary-General, or in the European Commission, appointed by an individual European Commissioner for his or her personal cabinet. The position's rank and responsibilities are equivalent to a chief of staff. The current chef de cabinet to the United Nations Secretary‑General is Maria Luiza Ribeiro Viotti.\n"}
{"id": "4478973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4478973", "title": "Confederation of Cameroon Trade Unions", "text": "Confederation of Cameroon Trade Unions\n\nThe Confederation of Cameroon Trade Unions (CCTU/CSTS) is a trade union centre in Cameroon.\n\nIt is affiliated with the International Trade Union Confederation, and the Organization of African Trade Union Unity.\n"}
{"id": "38361706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38361706", "title": "Crime in Austria", "text": "Crime in Austria\n\nCrime in Austria is combated by a range of Austrian law enforcement agencies. \n\nIn 2016, Austria (with a population of about 8.74 million) had an intentional homicide rate of 0.53 per 100,000 population - one of the lowest rates in the world. There were a total of 46 intentional homicides in Austria in 2016.\n\nPickpockets and purse snatchers can be found in the highly populated areas, including areas frequented by tourists, bus and train stations, and on subways. Residential burglaries are a significant concern, especially in the more affluent areas. The US government rates Vienna as being \"medium\" for levels of residential crime.\n\nIn 2004 Austria had the lowest rates of car theft in the EU.\n\nAustria has a well-developed institutional and legal system, and most corruption cases under investigation by a parliamentary committee end with judicial trials and effective judgments. Several significant Austrian corruption cases took place during the 2000s involving land and regional officials, high-level public officials, the central government and, in one instance, the former Chancellor.\n\nIn most cases, corrupt practices were related to conflicts of interest, abuse of office, money laundering and influence peddling. The corruption scandals have put into doubt the ethical standards of the political elite. This doubt is reflected in the findings of Eurobarometer 2012, where two-thirds of respondents perceive national politicians to be corrupt and also the most corrupt institution in Austria.\n\nAustria is targeted by foreign criminals, with 64 percent of drug-related offences being carried out by criminals who are born abroad. According to British criminal Colin Blaney in his autobiography \"Undesirables\", British thieves and confidence tricksters have targeted Austria on account of the fact that it is viewed as a soft touch due to its relatively low crime rates.\n\nMost criminal activity is focused in the larger metropolitan areas.\n"}
{"id": "25796129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25796129", "title": "Croatia national rugby sevens team", "text": "Croatia national rugby sevens team\n\nThe Croatia national rugby sevens team is a minor national sevens side. They compete annually in the Rugby Europe sevens championship.\n"}
{"id": "39556863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39556863", "title": "Daily Guide (Ghana)", "text": "Daily Guide (Ghana)\n\nDaily Guide is a private-owned daily newspaper owned by Georgina Blay published in Accra, Ghana. The newspaper is published six times per week and is regarded as the most circulated independent paper in Ghana with a circulation of about 22,000 copies a day.The editor of the newspaper is Fortune Alimi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3483585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3483585", "title": "Degenia", "text": "Degenia\n\nDegenia is a monotypic plant genus in the mustard family containing the single species Degenia velebitica (). The yellow-flowered plant is endemic to Velebit and Kapela mountain ranges, and has become a symbol of the region.\n\nDiscovered by Dr. Árpád Degen on 17 July 1917, the \"Degenia velebitica\" is depicted on the reverse of the Croatian 50 lipa coin, minted since 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087084", "title": "Dudești culture", "text": "Dudești culture\n\nThe Dudeşti culture is a farming/herding culture that occupied part of Romania in the 6th millennium BC, typified by semi-subterranean habitations (Zemlyanki) on the edges of low plateaus. This culture contributed to the origin of both the subsequent Hamangia culture and the Boian culture. It was named after Dudeşti, a quarter in the southeast of Bucharest.\n\n"}
{"id": "187749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187749", "title": "Ethiopia", "text": "Ethiopia\n\nEthiopia (; , , ), officially the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (, ), is a country in the Horn of Africa. It shares borders with Eritrea to the north, Djibouti to the northeast, Somalia to the east, Sudan and South Sudan to the west, and Kenya to the south. With over floor(/1e6) million inhabitants, Ethiopia is the most populous landlocked country in the world and the second-most populous nation on the African continent. It occupies a total area of , and its capital and largest city is Addis Ababa.\n\nSome of the oldest skeletal evidence for anatomically modern humans has been found in Ethiopia. It is widely considered as the region from which modern humans first set out for the Middle East and places beyond. According to linguists, the first Afroasiatic-speaking populations settled in the Horn region during the ensuing Neolithic era. Tracing its roots to the 2nd millennium BC, Ethiopia's governmental system was a monarchy for most of its history. In the first centuries AD, the Kingdom of Aksum maintained a unified civilization in the region, followed by the Ethiopian Empire circa 1137. During the late 19th-century Scramble for Africa, Ethiopia was one of two nations to retain its sovereignty from long-term colonialism by a European colonial power. Many newly-independent nations on the continent subsequently adopted its flag colours. The country was occupied by Italy in 1936 and became Italian Ethiopia (part of the Italian East Africa) until 1941. Ethiopia was also the first independent member from Africa of the 20th-century League of Nations and the United Nations. In 1974, the Ethiopian monarchy under Haile Selassie was overthrown by the Derg, a communist military government backed by the Soviet Union. In 1987, the Derg established the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, but it was overthrown in 1991 by the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front, which has been the ruling political coalition since.\n\nEthiopia and Eritrea use the ancient Ge'ez script, which is one of the oldest alphabets still in use in the world. The Ethiopian calendar, which is approximately seven years and three months behind the Gregorian calendar, co-exists alongside the Borana calendar. A majority of the population adheres to Christianity (mainly the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church and P'ent'ay), whereas around a third follows Islam (primarily Sunni). The country is the site of the Migration to Abyssinia and the oldest Muslim settlement in Africa at Negash. A substantial population of Ethiopian Jews, known as Bete Israel, also resided in Ethiopia until the 1980s. Ethiopia is a multilingual nation with around 80 ethnolinguistic groups, the four largest of which are the Oromo, Amhara, Somali and Tigrayans. Most people in the country speak Afroasiatic languages of the Cushitic or Semitic branches. Additionally, Omotic languages are spoken by ethnic minority groups inhabiting the southern regions. Nilo-Saharan languages are also spoken by the nation's Nilotic ethnic minorities.\n\nThe nation is a land of natural contrasts, with its vast fertile west, its forests, and numerous rivers, and the world's hottest settlement of Dallol in its north. The Ethiopian Highlands are the largest continuous mountain ranges in Africa, and the Sof Omar Caves contains the largest cave on the continent. Ethiopia also has the most UNESCO World Heritage Sites in Africa. Additionally, the sovereign state is a founding members of the UN, the Group of 24 (G-24), the Non-Aligned Movement, G-77 and the Organisation of African Unity. Its capital city Addis Ababa serves as the headquarters of the African Union, the Pan African Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, the African Standby Force, and many of the global NGOs focused on Africa. In the 1970s and 1980s, Ethiopia experienced civil conflicts and communist purges, which hindered its economy. The country has since recovered and now has the largest economy (by GDP) in East Africa, having the largest population in the region.\n\nThe Greek name Αἰθιοπία (from , \"Aithiops\", 'an Ethiopian') is a compound word, derived from the two Greek words, from + (\"aitho\" \"I burn\" + \"ops\" \"face\"). According to the Perseus Digital Library, the designation properly translates as \"Burnt-face\" in noun form and \"red-brown\" in adjectival form. The historian Herodotus used the appellation to denote the parts of Africa below the Sahara that were then known within the Ecumene (inhabitable world). However, the Greek formation may be a folk etymology for the Ancient Egyptian term \"athtiu-abu\", which means 'robbers of hearts'.\n\nIn Greco-Roman epigraphs, \"Aethiopia\" was a specific toponym for ancient Nubia. At least as early as c. 850, the name \"Aethiopia\" also occurs in many translations of the Old Testament in allusion to Nubia. The ancient Hebrew texts identify Nubia instead as Kush. However, in the New Testament, the Greek term Aithiops does occur, referring to a servant of Candace or Kandake, possibly an inhabitant of Meroë in Nubia.\n\nFollowing the Hellenic and Biblical traditions, the Monumentum Adulitanum, a third century inscription belonging to the Aksumite Empire, indicates that Aksum's then ruler governed an area which was flanked to the west by the territory of Ethiopia and Sasu. The Aksumite King Ezana would eventually conquer Nubia the following century, and the Aksumites thereafter appropriated the designation \"Ethiopians\" for their own kingdom. In the Ge'ez version of the Ezana inscription, Aἰθιόποι is equated with the unvocalized \"Ḥbštm\" and \"Ḥbśt\" (Ḥabashat), and denotes for the first time the highland inhabitants of Aksum. This new demonym would subsequently be rendered as \"’ḥbs\" (’Aḥbāsh) in Sabaic and as \"Ḥabasha\" in Arabic.\n\nIn the 15th-century Ge'ez \"Book of Aksum\", the name is ascribed to a legendary individual called \"Ityopp'is\". He was an extra-Biblical son of Cush, son of Ham, said to have founded the city of Axum.\n\nIn English, and generally outside of Ethiopia, the country was once historically known as Abyssinia. This toponym was derived from the Latinized form of the ancient \"Habash\".\n\nSeveral important finds have propelled Ethiopia and the surrounding region to the forefront of palaeontology. The oldest hominid discovered to date in Ethiopia is the 4.2 million year old \"Ardipithicus ramidus\" (Ardi) found by Tim D. White in 1994. The most well known hominid discovery is \"Australopithecus afarensis\" (Lucy). Known locally as Dinkinesh, the specimen was found in the Awash Valley of Ethiopia's Afar Region in 1974 by Donald Johanson, and is one of the most complete and best preserved adult Australopithecine fossils ever uncovered. Lucy's taxonomic name refers to the region where the discovery was made. The hominid is estimated to have lived 3.2 million years ago.\n\nEthiopia is also considered one of the earliest sites of the emergence of anatomically modern humans, \"Homo sapiens\". The oldest of these local fossil finds, the Omo remains, were excavated in the southwestern Omo Kibish area and have been dated to the Middle Paleolithic, around 200,000 years ago. Additionally, skeletons of \"Homo sapiens idaltu\" were found at a site in the Middle Awash valley. Dated to approximately 160,000 years ago, they may represent an extinct subspecies of \"Homo sapiens\", or the immediate ancestors of anatomically modern humans. \"Homo sapiens\" fossils excavated at the Jebel Irhoud site in Morocco have since been dated to an earlier period, about 300,000 years ago.\n\nAccording to linguists, the first Afroasiatic-speaking populations arrived in the region during the ensuing Neolithic era from the family's proposed urheimat (\"original homeland\") in the Nile Valley, or the Near East. Other scholars propose that the Afroasiatic family developed in situ in the Horn, with its speakers subsequently dispersing from there. Craniometric analysis of the Herto \"Homo sapiens idaltu\" skull found that the fossil was morphologically distinct from crania belonging to modern Afroasiatic-speaking groups from the Horn of Africa and Dynastic Egypt. The latter populations instead possessed Middle Eastern affinities. This suggests that the Afroasiatic-speaking groups settled in the area during a later epoch, having possibly arrived from the Middle East.\n\nAround the 8th century BC, a kingdom known as Dʿmt was established in northern Ethiopia and Eritrea. The polity's capital was located at Yeha, in northern Ethiopia. Most modern historians consider this civilization to be a native Ethiopian one, although Sabaean-influenced because of the latter's hegemony of the Red Sea.\n\nOther scholars regard Dʿmt as the result of a union of Afroasiatic-speaking cultures of the Cushitic and Semitic branches; namely, local Agaw peoples and Sabaeans from South Arabia. However, Ge'ez, the ancient Semitic language of Ethiopia, is thought to have developed independently from Sabaean, one of the South Semitic languages. As early as 2000 BC, other Semitic speakers were living in Ethiopia and Eritrea where Ge'ez developed. Sabaean influence is now thought to have been minor, limited to a few localities, and disappearing after a few decades or a century. It may have been a trading or military colony in alliance with the Ethiopian civilization of Dʿmt or some other proto-Aksumite state.\n\nAfter the fall of Dʿmt during the fourth century BC, the Ethiopian plateau came to be dominated by smaller successor kingdoms. In the first century AD, the Kingdom of Aksum emerged in what is now northern Ethiopia and Eritrea. According to the medieval \"Book of Aksum\", the kingdom's first capital, Mazaber, was built by Itiyopis, son of Cush. Aksum would later at times extend its rule into Yemen on the other side of the Red Sea. The Persian religious figure Mani listed Aksum with Rome, Persia, and China as one of the four great powers of his era, during the 3rd century.\n\nAround 316 AD, Frumentius and his brother Edesius from Tyre accompanied their uncle on a voyage to Ethiopia. When the vessel stopped at a Red Sea port, the natives killed all the travelers except the two brothers, who were taken to the court as slaves. They were given positions of trust by the monarch, and they converted members of the royal court to Christianity. Frumentius became the first bishop of Aksum. A coin dated to 324 shows that Ethiopia was the second country to officially adopt Christianity (after Armenia did so in 301), although the religion may have been at first confined to court circles; it was the first major power to do so.\n\nAs the Aksumite kingdom gradually declined, one of the earliest local Muslim states, the Makhzumi Sultanate, was established in the Shewa region. The polity was governed by the Makhzumi dynasty, which reigned over the province until it was deposed around 1280 by the Walashma dynasty.\n\nThe first interaction that the Islamic Prophet Muhammad had with Ethiopia was during the reign of Aṣḥama ibn Abjar, who was at the time the Emperor of Aksum and gave refuge to several Muslims in the Kingdom of Aksum in 614 AD. According to other authors, Ashama may have been the same person as king Armah, or his father or son. Taddesse Tamrat records that the inhabitants of Wiqro, where the ruler is known as \"Ashamat al-Negashi\", claim that his tomb is located in their village.\n\nMuhammad's second interaction with Ethiopia was during the Expedition of Zaid ibn Haritha, when he sent Amr bin Umayyah al-Damri to the King of Ethiopia (then Abyssinia).\n\nThe Zagwe dynasty ruled many parts of present-day Ethiopia and Eritrea between the early 12th and late 13th century. The name of the dynasty is derived from the Cushitic-speaking Agaw of northern Ethiopia. From 1270 AD until the \"Zemene Mesafint\" (Age of Princes), the Solomonic dynasty governed the Ethiopian Empire.\n\nIn the early 15th century, Ethiopia sought to make diplomatic contact with European kingdoms for the first time since the Aksumite era. A letter from Henry IV of England to the Emperor of Abyssinia survives. In 1428, Yeshaq I sent two emissaries to Alfonso V of Aragon, who sent return emissaries. They failed to complete the return trip. The first continuous relations with a European country began in 1508 with Portugal under Dawit II (Lebna Dengel), who had just inherited the throne from his father.\n\nThis proved to be an important development, for when the Empire was subjected to the attacks of the Adal Sultanate's general and imam, Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi (called \"\"Grañ\" \" \"the Left-handed\"), Portugal assisted the Ethiopian emperor by sending weapons and four hundred men, who helped his son Gelawdewos defeat Ahmad and re-establish his rule. This Abyssinian–Adal war was also one of the first proxy wars in the region, as the Ottoman Empire and Portugal took sides in the conflict.\nWhen Emperor Susenyos I converted to Roman Catholicism in 1624, years of revolt and civil unrest followed, resulting in thousands of deaths. The Jesuit missionaries had offended the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo faith of the local Ethiopians. In June 1632, Fasilides, Susenyos' son, declared the state religion again to be the Ethiopian Orthodoxy. He expelled the Jesuit missionaries and other Europeans.\n\nThe Sultanate of Aussa or \"Afar Sultanate\" succeeded the earlier Imamate of Aussa. The latter polity had come into existence in 1577 when Muhammed Jasa moved his capital from Harar to Aussa (Asaita) with the split of the Adal Sultanate into the Sultanate of Aussa and the Sultanate of Harar. At some point after 1672, the Sultanate of Aussa declined and temporarily came to an end in conjunction with Imam Umar Din bin Adam's recorded ascension to the throne.\n\nThe Sultanate was subsequently re-established by Kedafu around the year 1734. It was thereafter ruled by his Mudaito Dynasty. The primary symbol of the Sultan was a silver baton, which was considered to have magical properties.\n\nBetween 1755 and 1855, Ethiopia experienced a period of isolation referred to as the \"Zemene Mesafint\" or \"Age of Princes\". The Emperors became figureheads, controlled by warlords like \"Ras\" Mikael Sehul of Tigray, \"Ras\" Wolde Selassie of Tigray, and by the Yejju Oromo dynasty, such as \"Ras\" Gugsa of Yejju, which later led to 17th-century Oromo rule of Gondar, changing the language of the court from Amharic to Afaan Oromo.\n\nEthiopian isolationism ended following a British mission that concluded an alliance between the two nations, but it was not until 1855 that Ethiopia was completely united and the power in the Emperor restored, beginning with the reign of Tewodros II. Upon his ascent, he began modernizing Ethiopia and recentralizing power in the Emperor. Ethiopia began to take part in world affairs once again.\n\nBut Tewodros suffered several rebellions inside his empire. Northern Oromo militias, Tigrayan rebellion, and the constant incursion of Ottoman Empire and Egyptian forces near the Red Sea brought the weakening and the final downfall of Tewodros II. He killed himself in 1868 during his last battle with the British Expedition to Abyssinia. Emperor Tewodros II was born in Begemder from a nobleman of Qwara, where the Qwara dialect of Agaw language is spoken.\n\nAfter Tewodros' death, Tekle Giyorgis II was proclaimed Emperor. He was defeated in the Battles of Zulawu (21 June 1871) and Adua (11 July 1871). Kassai was subsequently declared Yohannes IV on 21 January 1872. In 1875 and 1876, Turkish/Egyptian forces, accompanied by many European and American 'advisors', twice invaded Abyssinia but were initially defeated: once at the Battle of Gundet losing 800 men, and then in the second invasion, decisively defeated by Emperor Yohannes IV at the Battle of Gura on 7 March 1875, where the invading forces lost at least 3000 men by death or captured. From 1885 to 1889, Ethiopia joined the Mahdist War allied to Britain, Turkey, and Egypt against the Sudanese Mahdist State. On 10 March 1889, Yohannes IV was killed by the Sudanese Khalifah Abdullah's army whilst leading his army in the Battle of Gallabat (also called Battle of Metemma).\n\nEthiopia in its roughly current form began under the reign of Menelik II, who was Emperor from 1889 until his death in 1913. From his base in the central province of Shewa, Menelik set out to annex territories to the south, east and west, areas inhabited by the Oromo, Sidama, Gurage, Welayta, and other groups. He did this with the help of \"Ras\" Gobana Dacche's Shewan Oromo militia, which occupied lands that had not been held since Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi's war, as well as other areas that had never been under Ethiopian sovereignty. Menelik's campaign against Oromos outside his army was largely in retaliation for centuries of Oromo expansionism and the \"Zemene Mesafint\", a period during which a succession of Oromo feudal rulers dominated the highlanders. Chief among these was the Yejju dynasty, which included Aligaz of Yejju and his brother Ali I of Yejju. Ali I founded the town of Debre Tabor in the Amhara Region, which became the dynasty's capital.\n\nMenelik was born from King Hailemelekot of Shewa and his mother Ejegayehu Lema Adeyamo who was a servant in the royal household. He had been born at Angolala in an Oromo area and had lived his first twelve years with Shewan Oromos with whom he thus had much in common.\n\nDuring his reign, Menelik II made advances in road construction, electricity and education; the development of a central taxation system; and the foundation and building of the city of Addis Ababa—which became capital of Shewa Province in 1881. After he ascended to the throne in 1889, it was renamed as Addis Ababa, the new capital of Abyssinia. Menelik had signed the Treaty of Wichale with Italy in May 1889 in which Italy would recognize Ethiopia's sovereignty so long as Italy could control an area north of Ethiopia (part of modern Eritrea). In return, Italy was to provide Menelik with weapons and support him as emperor. The Italians used the time between the signing of the treaty and its ratification by the Italian government to expand their territorial claims. This conflict erupted in the Battle of Adwa on 1 March 1896 in which Italy's colonial forces were defeated by the Ethiopians.\n\nAbout a third of the population died in the Great Ethiopian Famine (1888 to 1892).\n\nThe early 20th century was marked by the reign of Emperor Haile Selassie \"(Ras Tafari)\". Haile Selassie I was born to parents from three of Ethiopia's Afroasiatic-speaking populations: the \"Oromo\" and \"Amhara\", the country's two largest ethnic groups, as well as the Gurage. He came to power after Iyasu V was deposed, and undertook a nationwide modernization campaign from 1916, when he was made a \"Ras\" and Regent (\"Inderase\") for the Empress Regnant, Zewditu, and became the \"de facto\" ruler of the Ethiopian Empire. Following Zewditu's death, on 2 November 1930, he succeeded her as emperor.\n\nThe independence of Ethiopia was interrupted by the Second Italo-Ethiopian War, beginning when it was invaded by Fascist Italy in early October 1935, and Italian occupation of the country (1936–1941). During this time, Haile Selassie appealed to the League of Nations in 1935, delivering an address that made him a worldwide figure, and the 1935 \"Time\" Man of the Year. As the majority of the Ethiopian population lived in rural towns, Italy faced continued resistance and ambushes in urban centers throughout its occupation. Haile Selassie fled into exile in Fairfield House, Bath and Mussolini was able to proclaim the Empire of Ethiopia and the assumption of the imperial title by the Italian king Vittorio Emanuele III, recognized by the countries belonging to the international organization of the League of Nations.\n\nIn 1937, the Italian massacre of Yekatit 12, in which many Ethiopians were imprisoned and massacred, took place. This was because of a failed attempt to assassinate Rodolfo Graziani, the Viceroy of Italian East Africa.\n\nFollowing the entry of Italy into World War II, British Empire forces, together with the \"Arbegnoch\" (lit. \"patriots\", referring to armed resistance soldiers) restored sovereignty of Ethiopia in the course of the East African Campaign in 1941. An Italian guerrilla campaign continued until 1943. This was followed by British recognition of Ethiopia's full sovereignty, (\"i.e.\" without any special British privileges), with the signing of the Anglo-Ethiopian Agreement in December 1944.\n\nOn 26 August 1942, Haile Selassie issued a proclamation that removed Ethiopia's legal basis for slavery. Ethiopia had between two and four million slaves in the early 20th century, out of a total population of about eleven million.\n\nIn 1952, Haile Selassie orchestrated the federation with Eritrea. He dissolved this in 1962 and illegally annexed Eritrea against the UN Federation Agreement, which resisted and finally won its war of independence. Haile Selassie played a leading role in the formation of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) in 1963.\n\nOpinion within Ethiopia turned against Haile Selassie I owing to the worldwide oil crisis of 1973. This oil crisis caused a sharp increase in gasoline prices starting on 13 February 1974; food shortages; uncertainty regarding the succession; border wars; and discontent in the middle class created through modernization. The high gasoline prices motivated the taxi drivers and teachers to go on strike on 18 February 1974, and students and workers in Addis Ababa began demonstrating against the government on 20 February 1974. The feudal oligarchial cabinet of Akilou Habte Wolde was toppled, and a new government was formed with Endelkachew Makonnen serving as Prime Minister.\n\nHaile Selassie's reign came to an end on 12 September 1974, when he was deposed by the Derg, a Soviet-backed Marxist–Leninist military dictatorship led by Mengistu Haile Mariam. The new Provisional Military Administrative Council established a one-party communist state in March 1975.\n\nThe ensuing regime suffered several coups, uprisings, wide-scale drought, and a huge refugee problem. In 1977, Somalia, which had been receiving assistance and arms from the USSR, invaded Ethiopia in the Ogaden War, capturing part of the Ogaden region. Ethiopia recovered it after it began receiving massive military aid from the USSR, Cuba, South Yemen, East Germany, and North Korea. This included around 15,000 Cuban combat troops.\n\nBetween 1977–78, up to 500,000 were killed as a result of the Red Terror, from forced deportations, or from the use of hunger as a weapon under Mengistu's rule. The Red Terror was carried out in response to what the Derg termed as the White Terror, a chain of violent events, assassinations, and killings carried out by what it called \"petty bourgeois reactionaries\" who desired a reversal of the 1974 revolution.\nThe 1983–85 famine in Ethiopia affected around eight million people, resulting in one million dead. Insurrections against Communist rule sprang up, particularly in the northern regions of Eritrea and Tigray. In 1989, the Tigrayan People's Liberation Front (TPLF) merged with other ethnically based opposition movements to form the coalition known as the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF).\n\nConcurrently, the Soviet Union began to retreat from building world communism under Mikhail Gorbachev's \"glasnost\" and \"perestroika\" policies, marking a dramatic reduction in aid to Ethiopia from Socialist Bloc countries. This resulted in more economic hardship and the collapse of the military in the face of determined onslaughts by guerrilla forces in the north. The collapse of Marxism–Leninism in general, and in Eastern Europe during the revolutions of 1989, coincided with the Soviet Union stopping aid to Ethiopia altogether in 1990. The strategic outlook for Mengistu quickly deteriorated.\n\nIn May 1991, EPRDF forces advanced on Addis Ababa and the Soviet Union did not intervene to save the government side. Mengistu fled the country and was granted asylum in Zimbabwe, where he still resides.\n\nIn 2006, after a trial that lasted 12 years, Ethiopia's Federal High Court in Addis Ababa found Mengistu guilty of genocide \"in absentia\". Numerous other top leaders of his regime were also found guilty of war crimes. Mengistu and others who had fled the country were tried and sentenced \"in absentia\". Numerous former officials received the death sentence and tens of others spent the next 20 years in jail, before being pardoned from life sentences.\n\nIn July 1991, EPRDF convened a National Conference to establish the Transitional Government of Ethiopia composed of an 87-member Council of Representatives and guided by a national charter that functioned as a transitional constitution. In June 1992, the Oromo Liberation Front withdrew from the government; in March 1993, members of the Southern Ethiopia Peoples' Democratic Coalition also left the government. In 1994, a new constitution was written that established a parliamentary republic with a bicameral legislature and a judicial system.\n\nThe 1st multiparty election took place in May 1995, which was won by the EPRDF. The president of the transitional government, EPRDF leader Meles Zenawi, became Prime Minister, and Negasso Gidada was elected President.\n\nIn May 1998, a border dispute with Eritrea led to the Eritrean–Ethiopian War, which lasted until June 2000 and cost both countries an estimated $1 million a day. This had a negative effect on Ethiopia's economy, but strengthened the ruling coalition.\n\nEthiopia's 3rd multiparty election on 15 May 2005 was highly disputed, with some opposition groups claiming fraud. Though the Carter Center approved the pre-election conditions, it expressed its dissatisfaction with post-election events. European Union election observers cited state support for the EPRDF campaign, as well as irregularities in ballot counting and results publishing. The opposition parties gained more than 200 parliamentary seats, compared with just 12 in the 2000 elections. While most of the opposition representatives joined the parliament, some leaders of the CUD party who refused to take up their parliamentary seats were accused of inciting the post-election violence and were imprisoned. Amnesty International considered them \"prisoners of conscience\" and they were subsequently released.\n\nA coalition of opposition parties and some individuals was established in 2009 to oust the regime of the EPRDF in legislative elections of 2010. Meles' party, which has been in power since 1991, published its 65-page manifesto in Addis Ababa on 10 October 2009. The opposition won most votes in Addis Ababa, but the EPRDF halted counting of votes for several days. After it ensued, it claimed the election, amidst charges of fraud and intimidation.\n\nSome of the eight member parties of the Medrek (Forum for Democratic Dialogue) include the Oromo Federalist Congress (organized by the Oromo Federalist Democratic Movement and the Oromo People's Congress), the Arena Tigray (organized by former members of the ruling party TPLF), the Unity for Democracy and Justice (UDJ, whose leader is imprisoned), and the Coalition of Somali Democratic Forces.\n\nIn mid-2011, two consecutively missed rainy seasons precipitated the worst drought in East Africa seen in 60 years. Full recovery from the drought's effects did not occur until 2012, with long-term strategies by the national government in conjunction with development agencies believed to offer the most sustainable results.\n\nMeles died on 20 August 2012 in Brussels, where he was being treated for an unspecified illness. Deputy Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn was appointed as a new prime minister until the 2015 elections, and remained so afterwards with his party in control of every parliamentary seat.\n\nProtests broke out across the country on 5 August 2016 and dozens of protesters were subsequently shot and killed by police. The protesters demanded an end to human rights abuses, the release of political prisoners, a fairer redistribution of the wealth generated by over a decade of economic growth, and a return of Wolqayt District to the Amhara Region. The events were the most violent crackdown against protesters in Sub-Saharan Africa since the Ethiopian regime killed at least 75 people during protests in the Oromia Region in November and December 2015. Following these protests, Ethiopia declared a state of emergency on 6 October 2016. The state of emergency was lifted in August 2017.\n\nUp to 400,000 have been displaced by the Oromo-Somali clashes in 2017. More than 1.2 million people have been displaced by inter-ethnic violence in 2018. on 16 and 17 September, 2018 in the minorities protest that took place in Oromo near the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa, 23 people were killed.\n\nOn February 16, 2018, the government of Ethiopia declared a six-month nationwide state of emergency following the resignation of Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn. Hailemariam is the first ruler in modern Ethiopian history to step down; previous leaders have died in office or been overthrown. He said he wanted to clear the way for reforms. His successor, Abiy Ahmed, made a historic visit to Eritrea in 2018, ending the state of conflict between the countries.\n\nThe politics of Ethiopia takes place in a framework of a federal parliamentary republic, wherein the Prime Minister is the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Federal legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament. On the basis of Article 78 of the 1994 Ethiopian Constitution, the Judiciary is completely independent of the executive and the legislature. The current realities of this provision are questioned in a report prepared by Freedom House.\n\nAccording to the Democracy Index published by the United Kingdom-based Economist Intelligence Unit in late 2010, Ethiopia is an \"authoritarian regime\", ranking as the 118th-most democratic out of 167 countries. Ethiopia has dropped 12 places on the list since 2006, and the latest report attributes the drop to the government's crackdown on opposition activities, media and civil society before the 2010 parliamentary election, which the report argues has made Ethiopia a \"de facto\" one-party state.\n\nIn July 2015, during a trip that then US President Barack Obama took to Ethiopia, he highlighted the role of the country in the fight against Islamic terrorism. Obama was the first sitting United States president to visit Ethiopia.\n\nThe election of Ethiopia's 547-member constituent assembly was held in June 1994. This assembly adopted the constitution of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia in December 1994. The elections for Ethiopia's first popularly chosen national parliament and regional legislatures were held in May and June 1995. Most opposition parties chose to boycott these elections. There was a landslide victory for the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF). International and non-governmental observers concluded that opposition parties would have been able to participate had they chosen to do so.\n\nThe current government of Ethiopia was installed in August 1995. The first President was Negasso Gidada. The EPRDF-led government of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi promoted a policy of ethnic federalism, devolving significant powers to regional, ethnically based authorities. Ethiopia today has nine semi-autonomous administrative regions that have the power to raise and spend their own revenues. Under the present government, some fundamental freedoms, including freedom of the press, are circumscribed.\n\nCitizens have little access to media other than the state-owned networks, and most private newspapers struggle to remain open and suffer periodic harassment from the government. At least 18 journalists who had written articles critical of the government were arrested following the 2005 elections on genocide and treason charges. The government uses press laws governing libel to intimidate journalists who are critical of its policies.\n\nMeles' government was elected in 2000 in Ethiopia's first-ever multiparty elections; however, the results were heavily criticized by international observers and denounced by the opposition as fraudulent. The EPRDF also won the 2005 election returning Meles to power. Although the opposition vote increased in the election, both the opposition and observers from the European Union and elsewhere stated that the vote did not meet international standards for fair and free elections. Ethiopian police are said to have massacred 193 protesters, mostly in the capital Addis Ababa, in the violence following the May 2005 elections in the Ethiopian police massacre.\n\nThe government initiated a crackdown in the provinces as well; in Oromia state the authorities used concerns over insurgency and terrorism to use torture, imprisonment, and other repressive methods to silence critics following the election, particularly people sympathetic to the registered opposition party Oromo National Congress (ONC). The government has been engaged in a conflict with rebels in the Ogaden region since 2007. The biggest opposition party in 2005 was the Coalition for Unity and Democracy (CUD). After various internal divisions, most of the CUD party leaders have established the new Unity for Democracy and Justice party led by Judge Birtukan Mideksa. A member of the country's Oromo ethnic group, Ms. Birtukan Mideksa is the first woman to lead a political party in Ethiopia.\n\nIn 2008, the top five opposition parties were the Unity for Democracy and Justice led by Judge Birtukan Mideksa, United Ethiopian Democratic Forces led by Dr. Beyene Petros, Oromo Federalist Democratic Movement led by Dr. Bulcha Demeksa, Oromo People's Congress led by Dr. Merera Gudina, and United Ethiopian Democratic Party – Medhin Party led by Lidetu Ayalew. After the 2015 elections, Ethiopia lost its single remaining opposition MP; there are now no opposition MPs in the Ethiopian parliament.\n\nRecent human rights violations include the killing of 100 peaceful protestors by direct government gunfire in the Oromo and Amhara regions in 2016. The UN has called for UN observers on the ground in Ethiopia to investigate this incident, however the EPRDF-dominated Ethiopian government has refused this call. The protestors are protesting land grabs and lack of basic human rights such as the freedom to elect their representatives. The TPLF-dominated EPRDF won 100% in an election marked by fraud which has resulted in Ethiopian civilians protesting on scale unseen in prior post-election protests.\n\nMerera Gudina, leader of the Oromo People's Congress, said the East African country was at a \"crossroads\". \"People are demanding their rights,\" he said. \"People are fed up with what the regime has been doing for a quarter of a century. They're protesting against land grabs, reparations, stolen elections, the rising cost of living, many things. \"If the government continue to repress while the people are demanding their rights in the millions that (civil war) is one of the likely scenarios,\" Merera said in an interview with Reuters.\nAccording to surveys in 2003 by the National Committee on Traditional Practices in Ethiopia, marriage by abduction accounts for 69% of the nation's marriages, with around 80% in the largest region, Oromiya, and as high as 92% in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region. Homosexual acts are illegal in Ethiopia.\n\nAmong the Omotic Karo-speaking and Hamer peoples in southern Ethiopia, adults and children with physical abnormalities are considered to be mingi, \"ritually impure\". The latter are believed to exert an evil influence upon others; disabled infants have traditionally been murdered without a proper burial. The Karo officially banned the practice in July 2012.\n\nIn 2013, the Oakland Institute released a report accusing the Ethiopian government of forcing the relocation of \"hundreds of thousands of indigenous people from their lands\" in the Gambela Region The report describes the Ethiopian government's \"plans to move over 1.5 million people\" by the end of 2013, in order to allow foreign investors to develop the land for large scale industrial agriculture. According to several reports by the organization, those who refused were the subject of a variety of intimidation techniques including physical and sexual abuse, which sometimes led to deaths. A similar 2012 report by Human Rights Watch also describes the Ethiopian government's 2010–2011 villagization program in Gambella, with plans to carry out similar resettlements in other regions. The Ethiopian government has denied the accusations of land grabbing and instead pointed to the positive trajectory of the countries economy as evidence of the development program's benefits.\nBefore 1996, Ethiopia was divided into thirteen provinces, many derived from historical regions. The nation now has a tiered governmental system consisting of a federal government overseeing ethnically based regional states, zones, districts (\"woreda\"), and \"kebeles\" (\"neighbourhoods\").\n\nSince 1996, Ethiopia has been divided into nine ethnically-based and politically autonomous regional states (\"kililoch\", singular \"kilil\" ) and two chartered cities (\"astedader akababiwoch\", singular \"astedader akababi\" ), the latter being Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa. The \"kililoch\" are subdivided into sixty-eight zones, and then further into 550 \"woredas\" and several special \"woredas\".\n\nThe constitution assigns extensive power to regional states, which can establish their own government and democracy as long as it is in line with the federal government's constitution. Each region has at its apex a regional council where members are directly elected to represent the districts and the council has legislative and executive power to direct internal affairs of the regions.\n\nArticle 39 of the Ethiopian Constitution further gives every regional state the right to secede from Ethiopia. There is debate, however, as to how much of the power guaranteed in the constitution is actually given to the states. The councils implement their mandate through an executive committee and regional sectoral bureaus. Such elaborate structure of council, executive, and sectoral public institutions is replicated to the next level (\"woreda\").\n\nAt , Ethiopia is the world's 27th-largest country, comparable in size to Bolivia. It lies between the 3rd parallel north and the 15th parallel north and longitudes 33rd meridian east and 48th meridian east.\n\nThe major portion of Ethiopia lies on the Horn of Africa, which is the easternmost part of the African landmass. Bordering Ethiopia are Sudan and South Sudan to the west, Djibouti and Eritrea to the north, Somalia to the east and Kenya to the south. Within Ethiopia is a vast highland complex of mountains and dissected plateaus divided by the Great Rift Valley, which runs generally southwest to northeast and is surrounded by lowlands, steppes, or semi-desert. The great diversity of terrain determines wide variations in climate, soils, natural vegetation, and settlement patterns.\n\nEthiopia is an ecologically diverse country, ranging from the deserts along the eastern border to the tropical forests in the south to extensive Afromontane in the northern and southwestern parts. Lake Tana in the north is the source of the Blue Nile. It also has a large number of endemic species, notably the gelada, the walia ibex and the Ethiopian wolf (\"Simien fox\"). The wide range of altitude has given the country a variety of ecologically distinct areas, and this has helped to encourage the evolution of endemic species in ecological isolation.\n\nThe predominant climate type is tropical monsoon, with wide topographic-induced variation. The Ethiopian Highlands cover most of the country and have a climate which is generally considerably cooler than other regions at similar proximity to the Equator. Most of the country's major cities are located at elevations of around above sea level, including historic capitals such as Gondar and Axum.\n\nThe modern capital, Addis Ababa, is situated on the foothills of Mount Entoto at an elevation of around . It experiences a mild climate year round. With temperatures fairly uniform year round, the seasons in Addis Ababa are largely defined by rainfall: a dry season from October to February, a light rainy season from March to May, and a heavy rainy season from June to September. The average annual rainfall is approximately .\n\nThere are on average 7 hours of sunshine per day. The dry season is the sunniest time of the year, though even at the height of the rainy season in July and August there are still usually several hours per day of bright sunshine. The average annual temperature in Addis Ababa is , with daily maximum temperatures averaging throughout the year, and overnight lows averaging .\n\nMost major cities and tourist sites in Ethiopia lie at a similar elevation to Addis Ababa and have a comparable climate. In less elevated regions, particularly the lower lying Ethiopian xeric grasslands and shrublands in the east of the country, the climate can be significantly hotter and drier. Dallol, in the Danakil Depression in this eastern zone, has the world's highest average annual temperature of .\n\nEthiopia has 31 endemic species of mammals. The African wild dog prehistorically had widespread distribution in the territory. However, with last sightings at Finicha'a, this canid is thought to be potentially locally extinct. The Ethiopian wolf is perhaps the most researched of all the endangered species within Ethiopia.\n\nEthiopia is a global center of avian diversity. To date more than 856 bird species have been recorded in Ethiopia, twenty of which are endemic to the country. Sixteen species are endangered or critically endangered. A large number of these birds feed on butterflies, like the \"Bicyclus anynana.\"\n\nHistorically, throughout the African continent, wildlife populations have been rapidly declining due to logging, civil wars, pollution, poaching, and other human factors. A 17-year-long civil war, along with severe drought, negatively impacted Ethiopia's environmental conditions, leading to even greater habitat degradation. Habitat destruction is a factor that leads to endangerment. When changes to a habitat occur rapidly, animals do not have time to adjust. Human impact threatens many species, with greater threats expected as a result of climate change induced by greenhouse gases. With carbon dioxide emissions in 2010 of 6,494,000 tonnes, Ethiopia contributes just 0.02% to the annual human-caused release of greenhouse gases.\n\nEthiopia has a large number of species listed as critically endangered, endangered, and vulnerable to global extinction. The threatened species in Ethiopia can be broken down into three categories (based on IUCN ratings): critically endangered, endangered, and vulnerable.\n\nEthiopia is one of the eight fundamental and independent centers of origin for cultivated plants in the world. However, deforestation is a major concern for Ethiopia as studies suggest loss of forest contributes to soil erosion, loss of nutrients in the soil, loss of animal habitats, and reduction in biodiversity. At the beginning of the 20th century, around 420,000 km (or 35%) of Ethiopia's land was covered by trees, but recent research indicates that forest cover is now approximately 11.9% of the area.\n\nEthiopia loses an estimated 1,410 km of natural forests each year. Between 1990 and 2005 the country lost approximately 21,000 km of forests. Current government programs to control deforestation consist of education, promoting reforestation programs, and providing raw materials which are alternatives to timber. In rural areas the government also provides non-timber fuel sources and access to non-forested land to promote agriculture without destroying forest habitat. \n\nOrganizations such as SOS and Farm Africa are working with the federal government and local governments to create a system of forest management. Working with a grant of approximately 2.3 million Euros, the Ethiopian government recently began training people on reducing erosion and using proper irrigation techniques that do not contribute to deforestation. This project is assisting more than 80 communities.\n\nAccording to the IMF, Ethiopia was one of the fastest growing economies in the world, registering over 10% economic growth from 2004 through 2009. It was the fastest-growing non-oil-dependent African economy in the years 2007 and 2008. In 2015, the World Bank highlighted that Ethiopia had witnessed rapid economic growth with real domestic product (GDP) growth averaging 10.9% between 2004 and 2014.\n\nIn 2008 and 2011, Ethiopia's growth performance and considerable development gains were challenged by high inflation and a difficult balance of payments situation. Inflation surged to 40% in August 2011 because of loose monetary policy, large civil service wage increase in early 2011, and high food prices. For 2011/12, end-year inflation was projected to be about 22%, and single digit inflation is projected in 2012/13 with the implementation of tight monetary and fiscal policies.\n\nIn spite of fast growth in recent years, GDP per capita is one of the lowest in the world, and the economy faces a number of serious structural problems. However, with a focused investment in public infrastructure and industrial parks, Ethiopia's economy is addressing its structural problems to become a hub for light manufacturing in Africa.\n\nThe Ethiopian constitution defines the right to own land as belonging only to \"the state and the people\", but citizens may lease land (up to 99 years), and are unable to mortgage or sell. Renting of land for a maximum of twenty years is allowed and this is expected to ensure that land goes to the most productive user. Land distribution and administration is considered an area where corruption is institutionalized, and facilitation payments as well as bribes are often demanded when dealing with land-related issues. As there is no land ownership, infrastructural projects are most often simply done without asking the land users, which then end up being displaced and without home or land. A lot of anger and distrust sometimes results in public protests. In addition, agricultural productivity remains low, and frequent droughts still beset the country, also leading to internal displacement.\n\nEthiopia has 14 major rivers, which flow from its highlands, including the Nile. The country has the largest water reserves in Africa. , hydroelectric plants represented around 88.2% of the total installed electricity capacity. The remaining electrical power was generated from fossil fuels (8.3%) and other renewable sources (3.6%). The electrification rate for the total population in 2013 was 24%, with 85% coverage in urban areas and 10% coverage in rural areas. , total electricity production was 9.5 billion kWh and consumption was 6.7 billion kWh. There were 1.1 billion kWh in electricity exports, 0 kWh in electricity imports, and 2.4 million kW of installed generating capacity.\n\nEthiopia delivers roughly 81% of water volume to the Nile through the river basins of the Blue Nile, Sobat River and Atbara. In 1959, Egypt and Sudan signed a bilateral treaty, the 1959 Nile Waters Agreement, which gave both countries exclusive maritime rights over the Nile waters. Ever since, Egypt under international law vetoed almost all projects in Ethiopia that sought to utilize the local Nile tributaries. This had the effect of discouraging external financing of hydropower and irrigation projects in western Ethiopia, thereby impeding water resource-based economic development projects. However, Ethiopia is in the process of constructing a large 6,450 MW hydroelectric dam on the Blue Nile river. When completed, this Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam is slated to be the largest hydroelectric power station on the continent. The Gibe III hydroelectric project already generates an estimated 1,870-MW.\n\nAgriculture constitutes around 85% of the labour force. However, the service sector represents the largest portion of the GDP. Many other economic activities depend on agriculture, including marketing, processing, and export of agricultural products. Production is overwhelmingly by small-scale farmers and enterprises, and a large part of commodity exports are provided by the small agricultural cash-crop sector. Principal crops include coffee, legumes, oilseeds, cereals, potatoes, sugarcane, and vegetables.\n\nExports are almost entirely agricultural commodities (with the exception of Gold exports), and coffee is the largest foreign exchange earner. Ethiopia is Africa's second biggest maize producer. According to UN estimations the per capita GDP of Ethiopia has reached $357 . The same report indicated that the life expectancy had improved substantially in recent years. The life expectancy of men is reported to be 56 years and for women 60 years.\n\nExports from Ethiopia in the 2009/2010 financial year totaled 1.4 billion USD. The country produces more coffee than any other nation on the continent.\n\nEthiopia also has the 5th largest inventory of cattle. Other main export commodities are khat, gold, leather products, and oilseeds. Recent development of the floriculture sector means Ethiopia is poised to become one of the top flower and plant exporters in the world.\n\nCross-border trade by pastoralists is often informal and beyond state control and regulation. In East Africa, over 95% of cross-border trade is through unofficial channels. The unofficial trade of live cattle, camels, sheep, and goats from Ethiopia sold to Somalia, Djibouti, and Kenya generates an estimated total value of between 250 and 300 million USD annually (100 times more than the official figure).\n\nThis trade helps lower food prices, increase food security, relieve border tensions, and promote regional integration. However, the unregulated and undocumented nature of this trade runs risks, such as allowing disease to spread more easily across national borders. Furthermore, the government of Ethiopia is purportedly unhappy with lost tax revenue and foreign exchange revenues. Recent initiatives have sought to document and regulate this trade.\n\nWith the private sector growing slowly, designer leather products like bags are becoming a big export business, with Taytu becoming the first luxury designer label in the country. Additional small-scale export products include cereals, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, potatoes, and hides. With the construction of various new dams and growing hydroelectric power projects around the country, Ethiopia also plans to export electric power to its neighbors.\n\nMost regard Ethiopia's large water resources and potential as its \"white oil\" and its coffee resources as \"black gold\".\n\nThe country also has large mineral resources and oil potential in some of the less inhabited regions. Political instability in those regions, however, has inhibited development. Ethiopian geologists were implicated in a major gold swindle in 2008. Four chemists and geologists from the Ethiopian Geological Survey were arrested in connection with a fake gold scandal, following complaints from buyers in South Africa. Gold bars from the National Bank of Ethiopia were found by police to be gilded metal, costing the state around 17 million USD, according to the Science and Development Network website.\n\nIn 2011, the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam project was commenced. When completed, it will provide surplus energy in Ethiopia which will be available for export to neighboring countries.\n\nEthiopia has 926 km of electrified standard gauge railways, 656 km for the Addis Ababa – Djibouti Railway between Addis Ababa and the Port of Djibouti (via Awash) and 270 km for the Awash – Hara Gebeya Railway between Addis Ababa and the twin cities of Dessie/Kombolcha (also via Awash). Both railways are either in trial service or still under construction . Once commissioned and fully operational in 2018/2019, both railways will allow passenger transport with a designated speed of 120 km/hour and freight transport with a speed of ~80 km/hour. Expected travel time from Addis Ababa to Djibouti City for passengers would be less than twelve hours and travel time from Addis Ababa to Dessie/Kombolcha would be around six hours.\n\nBeyond the first 270 km of the Awash – Hara Gebeya Railway, a second construction phase over 120 km foresees the extension of this railway from Dessie/Kombolcha to Hara Gebeya/Woldiya. It is not clear, when this section will be built and opened. A third, northern 216 km long railway is also under construction between Mek'ele and Woldiya, but it is also not clear, when this railway will be commissioned and opened. All railways are part of a future railway network of more than 5,000 km of railways, the National Railway Network of Ethiopia.\nAs the first part of a ten-year Road Sector Development Program, between 1997 and 2002 the Ethiopian government began a sustained effort to improve its infrastructure of roads. As a result, Ethiopia has a total (Federal and Regional) of 100,000 km of roads, both paved and gravel.\n\nEthiopia had 58 airports , and 61 . Among these, the Bole International Airport in Addis Ababa and the Aba Tenna Dejazmach Yilma International Airport in Dire Dawa accommodate international flights. Ethiopian Airlines is the country's flag carrier, and is wholly owned by the Government of Ethiopia. From its hub at the Bole International Airport, the airline serves a network of 102 international 20 domestic passenger, and 44 cargo, destinations. It is also one of the fastest-growing carriers in the industry and continent.\n\nEthiopia's population has grown from 33.5 million in 1983 to 87.9 million in 2014. The population was only about 9 million in the 19th century. The 2007 Population and Housing Census results show that the population of Ethiopia grew at an average annual rate of 2.6% between 1994 and 2007, down from 2.8% during the period 1983–1994. Currently, the population growth rate is among the top ten countries in the world. The population is forecast to grow to over 210 million by 2060, which would be an increase from 2011 estimates by a factor of about 2.5.\n\nThe country's population is highly diverse, containing over 80 different ethnic groups. According to the Ethiopian national census of 2007, the Oromo are the largest ethnic group in Ethiopia, at 34.4% of the nation's population. The Amhara represent 27.0% of the country's inhabitants, while Somalis and Tigrayans represent 6.22% and 6.08% of the population, respectively. Other prominent ethnic groups are as follows: Sidama 4.00%, Gurage 2.52%, Welayta 2.27%, Afar 1.73%, Hadiya 1.72%, Gamo 1.49% and others 12.6%.\n\nAfroasiatic-speaking communities make up the majority of the population. Among these, Semitic speakers often collectively refer to themselves as the Habesha people. The Arabic form of this term (\"al-Ḥabasha\") is the etymological basis of \"Abyssinia,\" the former name of Ethiopia in English and other European languages. Additionally, Nilo-Saharan-speaking ethnic minorities inhabit the southern regions of the country, particularly in areas of the Gambela Region which borders South Sudan. The largest ethnic groups among these include the Nuer and Anuak.\n\nIn 2009, Ethiopia hosted a population of refugees and asylum seekers numbering approximately 135,200. The majority of this population came from Somalia (approximately 64,300 persons), Eritrea (41,700) and Sudan (25,900). The Ethiopian government required nearly all refugees to live in refugee camps.\n\nAccording to \"Ethnologue\", there are 90 individual languages spoken in Ethiopia. Most people in the country speak Afroasiatic languages of the Cushitic or Semitic branches. The former includes Oromiffa, spoken by the Oromo, and Somali, spoken by the Somalis; the latter includes Amharic, spoken by the Amhara, and Tigrinya, spoken by the Tigrayans. Together, these four groups make up about three-quarters of Ethiopia's population. Other Afroasiatic languages with a significant number of speakers include the Cushitic Sidamo, Afar, Hadiyya and Agaw languages, as well as the Semitic Gurage languages, Harari, Silt'e, and Argobba languages. Arabic, which also belongs to the Afroasiatic family, is likewise spoken in some areas.\n\nAdditionally, Omotic languages are spoken by Omotic ethnic minority groups inhabiting the southern regions. Among these idioms are Aari, Bench, Dime, Dizin, Gamo-Gofa-Dawro, Maale, Hamer, and Wolaytta.\n\nLanguages from the Nilo-Saharan family are also spoken by ethnic minorities concentrated in the southwestern parts of the country. These languages include Nuer, Anuak, Nyangatom, Majang, Suri, Me'en, and Mursi.\n\nEnglish is the most widely spoken foreign language, and is the medium of instruction in secondary schools. Amharic was the language of primary school instruction, but has been replaced in many areas by regional languages such as Oromiffa, Somali or Tigrinya. While all languages enjoy equal state recognition in the 1995 Constitution of Ethiopia, Amharic is recognized as the official working language of the Federal Government. The various regions of Ethiopia and chartered cities are free to determine their own working languages. Amharic is recognised as the official working language of Amhara Region, Benishangul-Gumuz, Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region, Gambela Region, Addis Abeba and Dire Dawa, while Afar, Harari, Oromiffa, Somali and Tigrinya are recognized as official working languages in their respective regions.\n\nIn terms of writing systems, Ethiopia's principal orthography is the Ge'ez script. Employed as an abugida for several of the country's languages, it first came into usage in the 6th and 5th centuries BC as an abjad to transcribe the Semitic Ge'ez language. Ge'ez now serves as the liturgical language of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church and Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church. During the 1980s, the Ethiopic character set was computerized. It is today part of the Unicode standard as Ethiopic, Ethiopic Extended, Ethiopic Supplement and Ethiopic Extended-A.\n\nOther writing systems have also been used over the years by different Ethiopian communities. The latter include Bakri Sapalo's script for Oromiffa.\n\nEthiopia has close historical ties with all three of the world's major Abrahamic religions. In the 4th century, the Ethiopian empire was one of the first in the world to officially adopt Christianity as the state religion. As a result of the resolutions of the Council of Chalcedon, in 451 the miaphysites, which included the vast majority of Christians in Egypt and Ethiopia, were accused of monophysitism and designated as heretics under the common name of Coptic Christianity (see Oriental Orthodoxy). While no longer distinguished as a state religion, the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church remains the majority Christian denomination. There is also a substantial Muslim demographic, representing around a third of the population. Additionally, Ethiopia is the site of the First Hegira, a major emigration in Islamic history. A town in the Tigray Region, Negash is the oldest Muslim settlement in Africa. Until the 1980s, a substantial population of Beta Israel (Ethiopian Jews) resided in Ethiopia.According to the 2007 National Census, Christians make up 62.8% of the country's population (43.5% Ethiopian Orthodox, 19.3% other denominations), Muslims 33.9%, practitioners of traditional faiths 2.6%, and other religions 0.6%. This is in agreement with the CIA World Factbook, which states that Christianity is the most widely practiced religion in Ethiopia. The ratio of the Christian to Muslim population has largely remained stable when compared to previous censuses conducted decades ago. Sunnis form the majority of Muslims with non-denominational Muslims being the second largest group of Muslims, and the Shia and Ahmadiyyas are a minority. Sunnis are largely Shafi'is or Salafis, and there are also many Sufi Muslims there. The large Muslim population in the northern Afar region has resulted in a Muslim separatist movement called the \"Islamic State of Afaria\" seeking a sharia-compliant constitution.\nThe Kingdom of Aksum was one of the first polities to officially embrace Christianity, when Frumentius of Tyre, called Fremnatos or Abba Selama (\"Father of Peace\") in Ethiopia, converted Emperor Ezana during the fourth century. According to the New Testament, Christianity had entered Ethiopia even earlier, when an official in the Ethiopian royal treasury was baptized by Philip the Evangelist.\nThe Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church is part of Oriental Orthodoxy. It is by far the largest Christian denomination, although a number of P'ent'ay (Protestant) churches have recently gained ground. Since 1930, a relatively small Ethiopian Catholic Church has existed in full communion with Rome, with adherents making up less than 1% of the total population.\n\nIslam in Ethiopia dates back to the founding of the religion in 622 when a group of Muslims were counseled by Muhammad to escape persecution in Mecca. The disciples subsequently migrated to Abyssinia via modern-day Eritrea, which was at the time ruled by Ashama ibn-Abjar, a pious Christian emperor. Also, the largest single ethnic group of non-Arab Sahabah was that of the Ethiopians.\n\nA small ancient group of Jews, the Beta Israel, live in northwestern Ethiopia, though most immigrated to Israel in the last decades of the 20th century as part of the Israeli government's relocation missions: Operation Moses and Operation Solomon.\n\nAccording to the 2007 Population and Housing Census, around 1,957,944 people in Ethiopia are adherents of traditional religions. An additional 471,861 residents practice other creeds. While followers of all religions can be found in each region, they tend to be concentrated in certain parts of the country. Christians predominantly live in the northern Amhara and Tigray regions, and are largely members of the non-Chalcedonian Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church. Those belonging to P'ent'ay are centered in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region (SNNP) and Oromia. Muslims in Ethiopia predominantly adhere to Sunni Islam and generally inhabit eastern and northeastern areas; particularly the Somali, Afar, Dire Dawa and Harari regions. Practitioners of traditional religions mainly reside in the nation's far southwestern and western rural borderlands, in the SNNP, Benishangul-Gumuz and Gambela regions.\n\nHuman rights groups have regularly accused the government of arresting activists, journalists and bloggers to stamp out dissent among some religious communities. Lengthy prison terms were handed to 17 Muslim activists on 3 August 2015 ranging from seven to 22 years. They were charged with trying to create an Islamic state in the majority Christian country. All the defendants denied the charges and claimed that they were merely protesting in defence of their rights.\n\nPopulation growth, migration, and urbanization are all straining both governments' and ecosystems' capacity to provide people with basic services. Urbanization has steadily been increasing in Ethiopia, with two periods of significantly rapid growth. First, in 1936–1941 during the Italian occupation of Mussolini's fascist regime, and from 1967 to 1975 when the populations of urban centers tripled.\n\nIn 1936, Italy annexed Ethiopia, building infrastructure to connect major cities, and a dam providing power and water. This along with the influx of Italians and laborers was the major cause of rapid growth during this period. The second period of growth was from 1967 to 1975 when rural populations migrated to urban centers seeking work and better living conditions.\n\nThis pattern slowed due to the 1975 Land Reform program instituted by the government, which provided incentives for people to stay in rural areas. As people moved from rural areas to the cities, there were fewer people to grow food for the population. The Land Reform Act was meant to increase agriculture since food production was not keeping up with population growth over the period of 1970–1983. This program proliferated the formation of peasant associations, large villages based on agriculture. The act did lead to an increase in food production, although there is debate over the cause; it may be related to weather conditions more than the reform act. Urban populations have continued to grow with an 8.1% increase from 1975 to 2000.\n\nMigration to urban areas is usually motivated by the hope of better lives. In peasant associations daily life is a struggle to survive. About 16% of the population in Ethiopia are living on less than 1 dollar per day (2008). Only 65% of rural households in Ethiopia consume the World Health Organization's minimum standard of food per day (2,200 kilocalories), with 42% of children under 5 years old being underweight.\n\nMost poor families (75%) share their sleeping quarters with livestock, and 40% of children sleep on the floor, where nighttime temperatures average 5 degrees Celsius in the cold season. The average family size is six or seven, living in a 30-square-meter mud and thatch hut, with less than two hectares of land to cultivate.\n\nThe peasant associations face a cycle of poverty. Since the landholdings are so small, farmers cannot allow the land to lie fallow, which reduces soil fertility. This land degradation reduces the production of fodder for livestock, which causes low milk yields. Since the community burns livestock manure as fuel, rather than plowing the nutrients back into the land, the crop production is reduced. The low productivity of agriculture leads to inadequate incomes for farmers, hunger, malnutrition and disease. These unhealthy farmers have difficulty working the land and the productivity drops further.\n\nAlthough conditions are drastically better in cities, all of Ethiopia suffers from poverty and poor sanitation. However, poverty in Ethiopia fell from 44% to 29.6% during 2000–2011, according to the World Bank. In the capital city of Addis Ababa, 55% of the population used to live in slums. Now, however, a construction boom in both the private and public sector has led to a dramatic improvement in living standards in major cities, particularly in Addis Ababa. Notably, government-built condominium housing complexes have sprung up throughout the city, benefiting close to 600,000 individuals. Sanitation is the most pressing need in the city, with most of the population lacking access to waste treatment facilities. This contributes to the spread of illness through unhealthy water.\nDespite the living conditions in the cities, the people of Addis Ababa are much better off than people living in the peasant associations owing to their educational opportunities. Unlike rural children, 69% of urban children are enrolled in primary school, and 35% of those are eligible to attend secondary school. Addis Ababa has its own university as well as many other secondary schools. The literacy rate is 82%.\n\nMany NGOs (Non-Governmental Organizations) are working to solve this problem; however, most are far apart, uncoordinated, and working in isolation. The Sub-Saharan Africa NGO Consortium is attempting to coordinate efforts.\n\nThe World Health Organization's 2006 World Health Report gives a figure of 1,936 physicians (for 2003), which comes to about 2.6 per 100,000. Globalization is said to affect the country, with many educated professionals leaving Ethiopia for better economic opportunities in the West.\n\nEthiopia's main health problems are said to be communicable (contagious) diseases worsened by poor sanitation and malnutrition. Over 44 million people (more than half the population) do not have access to clean water. These problems are exacerbated by the shortage of trained doctors and nurses and health facilities.\n\nThe state of public health is considerably better in the cities. Birth rates, infant mortality rates, and death rates are lower in cities than in rural areas due to better access to education, medicines, and hospitals. Life expectancy is better in cities compared to rural areas, but there have been significant improvements witnessed throughout the country in recent years, the average Ethiopian living to be 62.2 years old, according to a UNDP report. Despite sanitation being a problem, use of improved water sources is also on the rise; 81% in cities compared to 11% in rural areas. As in other parts of Africa, there has been a steady migration of people towards the cities in hopes of better living conditions.\n\nThere are 119 hospitals (12 in Addis Ababa alone) and 412 health centers in Ethiopia. Infant mortality rates are relatively high, as 41 infants die per 1,000 live births. Ethiopia has been able to reduce under-five mortality by two-thirds (one of the Millennium Development Goals) since 1990 Although this is a dramatic decrease, birth-related complications such as obstetric fistula affect many of the nation's women.\nThe HIV AIDS prevalence rate in Ethiopia stood at 1.1% in 2014, a dramatic decrease from 4.5% 15 years ago The most affected are poor communities and women, due to lack of health education, empowerment, awareness and lack of social well-being. The government of Ethiopia and many private organizations like World Health Organization (WHO), and the United Nations, are launching campaigns and are working aggressively to improve Ethiopia's health conditions and promote health awareness on AIDS and other communicable diseases (Dugassa, 2005).\n\nEthiopia has a relatively high infant and maternal mortality rate. Although, Ethiopia did not meet the MDG target of reducing maternal mortality rate by two thirds in 2015, there are improvements nonetheless. For instance, the contraception prevalence rate increased from 8.1% in 2000 to 41.8% in 2014, and Antenatal care service coverage increase from 29% to an astounding 98.1% in the same period. Currently, the maternal mortality rate stands at 420 per 100,000 live births. Only a minority of Ethiopians are born in hospitals, while most are born in rural households. Those who are expected to give birth at home have elderly women serve as midwives who assist with the delivery (Kater, 2000). The \"WHO estimates that a majority of maternal fatalities and disabilities could be prevented if deliveries were to take place at well-equipped health centers, with adequately trained staff\" (Dorman et al., 2009, p. 622).\nThe low availability of health-care professionals with modern medical training, together with lack of funds for medical services, leads to the preponderance of less-reliable traditional healers that use home-based therapies to heal common ailments.\n\nOne common cultural practice, irrespective of religion or economic status, is female genital mutilation (FGM), also known as female genital cutting (FGC), a procedure that involves partial or total removal of the external female genitalia, or other injury to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons. The practice has been made illegal in Ethiopia in 2004. FGM is a pre-marital custom mainly endemic to Northeast Africa and parts of the Near East that has its ultimate origins in Ancient Egypt. Encouraged by women in the community, it is primarily intended to deter promiscuity and to offer protection from assault.\n\nThe country has a high prevalence of FGM, but prevalence is lower among young girls. Ethiopia's 2005 Demographic and Health Survey (EDHS) noted that the national prevalence rate is 74% among women ages 15–49. The practice is almost universal in the regions of Dire Dawa, Somali, and Afar. In the Oromo and Harari regions, more than 80% of girls and women undergo the procedure. FGC is least prevalent in the regions of Tigray and Gambela, where 29% and 27% of girls and women, respectively, are affected. According to a 2010 study performed by the Population Reference Bureau, Ethiopia has a prevalence rate of 81% among women ages 35 to 39 and 62% among women ages 15–19. A 2014 UNICEF report found that only 24% of girls under 14 had undergone FGM.\n\nMale circumcision is also practiced in the country, and about 76% of Ethiopia's male population is reportedly circumcised.\n\nThe Government of the Federal Republic of Ethiopia is signatory to various international conventions and treaties that protect the rights of women and children. Its constitution provides for the fundamental rights and freedoms for women. There is an attempt being made to raise the social and economic status of women through eliminating all legal and customary practices, which hinder women's equal participation in society and undermine their social status.\n\nEducation in Ethiopia was dominated by the Tewahedo Church for many centuries until secular education was adopted in the early 1900s. The current system follows school expansion schemes which are very similar to the system in the rural areas during the 1980s, with an addition of deeper regionalization, providing rural education in students' own languages starting at the elementary level, and with more budget finances allocated to the education sector. The sequence of general education in Ethiopia is six years of primary school, four years of lower secondary school and two years of higher secondary school.\n\nAccess to education in Ethiopia has improved significantly. Approximately 3 million people were in primary school in 1994/95, and by 2008/09, primary enrolment had risen to 15.5 million – an increase of over 500%. In 2013/14, the country had witnessed significant boost in gross enrolment across all regions. The national GER was 104.8% for boys, 97.8% for girls and 101.3% across both sexes.\n\nThe literacy rate has increased in recent years: according to the 1994 census, the literacy rate in Ethiopia was 23.4%. In 2007 it was estimated to be 39% (male 49.1% and female 28.9%). A report by UNDP in 2011 showed that the literacy rate in Ethiopia was 46.7%. The same report also indicated that the female literacy rate has increased from 27 to 39 percent from 2004 to 2011, and the male literacy rate has increased from 49 to 59 percent over the same period for persons 10 years and older. By 2015, the literacy rate had further increased, to 49.1% (57.2% male and 41.1% female).\n\nEthiopians have a different naming system to the family name-based Western system. Children add the given names of their father and paternal grandfather consecutively to their own given name. For compatibility purposes, as is done in passports, the grandfather's given name is taken as a family surname, and a person's given name and their father's given name form the first name.\n\nEveryone is addressed by their given name. In official situations, the prefixes \"Ato\" (አቶ) is used for men; \"Weyzero\" (ወይዘሮ) for married women; and \"Weyzerīt\" (ወይዘሪት) for unmarried women.\n\nEthiopia has several local calendars. The most widely known is the Ethiopian calendar, also known as the Ge'ez calendar. It is based on the older Alexandrian or Coptic calendar, which in turn derives from the Egyptian calendar. Like the Coptic calendar, the Ethiopian calendar has twelve months of exactly 30 days each plus five or six epagomenal days, which comprise a thirteenth month. The Ethiopian months begin on the same days as those of the Coptic calendar, but their names are in Ge'ez.\n\nLike the Julian calendar, the sixth epagomenal day—which in essence is a leap day—is added every four years without exception on 29 August of the Julian calendar, six months before the Julian leap day. Thus, the first day of the Ethiopian year, 1 Mäskäräm, for years between 1901 and 2099 (inclusive), is usually 11 September (Gregorian), but falls on 12 September in years before the Gregorian leap year. Also, a seven- to eight-year gap between the Ethiopian and Gregorian calendars results from an alternate calculation in determining the date of the Annunciation of Jesus.\n\nAnother prominent calendrical system was developed around 300 BC by the Oromo. A lunar-stellar calendar, this Oromo calendar relies on astronomical observations of the moon in conjunction with seven particular stars or constellations. Oromo months (stars/lunar phases) are Bittottessa (Iangulum), Camsa (Pleiades), Bufa (Aldebarran), Waxabajjii (Belletrix), Obora Gudda (Central Orion-Saiph), Obora Dikka (Sirius), Birra (full moon), Cikawa (gibbous moon), Sadasaa (quarter moon), Abrasa (large crescent), Ammaji (medium crescent), and Gurrandala (small crescent).\n\nTime in Ethiopia is counted differently from in many Western countries. The Ethiopian day is reckoned as beginning at 6 AM as opposed to 12 AM, concurrently with sunrise throughout the year. To convert between the Ethiopian clock and Western clocks, one must add (or subtract) 6 hours to the Western time. For example, 2 AM local Addis Ababa time is called \"8 at night\" in Ethiopia, while 8 PM is called \"2 in the evening\".\n\nThe best-known Ethiopian cuisine consists of various types of thick meat stews, known as \"wat\" in Ethiopian culture, and vegetable side dishes served atop injera, a large sourdough flatbread made of teff flour. This is not eaten with utensils, but instead one uses the injera to scoop up the entrées and side dishes. Almost universally in Ethiopia, it is common to eat from the same dish in the center of the table with a group of people. It is also a common custom to feed others in your group with your own hands—a tradition referred to as \"gursha\". Traditional Ethiopian cuisine employs no pork or shellfish of any kind, as they are forbidden in the Christian (Ethiopian Orthodox), Islamic and Jewish faiths.\n\nChechebsa, marqa, chukko, michirra and dhanga are the most popular dishes from the Oromo. Kitfo, which originated among the Gurage, is one of the country's most popular delicacies. In addition, \"Doro wot\" is another popular food, originated from the Amhara people of northwestern Ethiopia. Tihlo (ጥሕሎ)—which is a type of dumpling—is prepared from roasted barley flour. It originated in the Tigray Region, and is now very popular in Amhara and spreading further south.\n\nEthiopian Broadcasting Corporation (EBC), formerly known as ETV, is the government-owned national channel. Other television stations in the country include Kana TV.\n\nThe most widely circulated newspapers in Ethiopia are Addis Fortune, Capital Ethiopia, Ethiopian Reporter, Addis Zemen (\"Amharic\") and Ethiopian Herald.\n\nThe sole internet service provider is the national telecommunications firm Ethio Telecom. A large portion of users in the country access the internet through mobile devices. , there are around 4.29 million people who have internet access at their home as compared to a quarter of a million users a decade before that. The Ethiopian government has at times intentionally shut down internet service in the country or restricted access to certain social media sites during periods of political unrest. In August 2016, following protest and demonstration in the Oromia Region, all access to the internet was shut down for a period of two days. In June 2017, the government shut down access to the internet for mobile users during a period that coincided with the administration of the countries university entrance examination. Although the reason for the restriction was not confirm by the government, the move was similar to a measure taken during the same period in 2016, after a leak of test questions.\n\nThe music of Ethiopia is extremely diverse, with each of the country's 80 ethnic groups being associated with unique sounds. Ethiopian music uses a distinct modal system that is pentatonic, with characteristically long intervals between some notes. As with many other aspects of Ethiopian culture and tradition, tastes in music and lyrics are strongly linked with those in neighboring Eritrea, Somalia, Djibouti, and Sudan. Traditional singing in Ethiopia presents diverse styles of polyphony (heterophony, drone, imitation, and counterpoint). Traditionally, lyricism in Ethiopian song writing is strongly associated with views of patriotism or national pride, romance, friendship, and a most unique type of memoire known as 'Tizita'.\n\nThe main sports in Ethiopia are track and field (particularly long distance running) and football. Ethiopian athletes have won many Olympic gold medals in track and field, most of them in long distance running. Haile Gebrselassie is a world-renowned long distance runner with several world records under his belt. Kenenisa Bekele and Tirunesh Dibaba are also dominant runners, particularly in the 5,000 and 10,000 meters in which they hold the world records.\n\nOther notable Ethiopian athletes are Abebe Bikila, Mamo Wolde, Miruts Yifter, Derartu Tulu, Meseret Defar, Almaz Ayana, Birhane Adere, Tiki Gelana, Genzebe Dibaba, Tariku Bekele, and Gelete Burka. going into 2013, the current national Ethiopian football team (Walayia Antelopes) has made itself history by qualifying for the 2012 African Cup of Nations (CAF) and more recently by reaching the last 10 African football teams in the last stage of qualification for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Noted players include captain Adane Girma and top scorer Saladin Said.\n\nEthiopia has Sub-Saharan Africa's longest basketball tradition as it established a national basketball team in 1949.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1054927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1054927", "title": "Faerie Knight", "text": "Faerie Knight\n\nThe Faerie Knight was, in the Matter of Britain, a bastard son of Tom a'Lincoln and Caelia, the Faerie Queen. His proper name is never given. He appears in Richard Johnson's romance \"Tom a' Lincoln\".\n\nTom himself was a bastard of King Arthur with Angelica, daughter of the Earl of London. Therefore, the Faerie Knight was, like Melehan, Melou and the Black Knight, Arthur's grandson.\n\nBeing half-faerie, the Faerie Knight inherited some of his mother's magical talents. He met his half-brother, the Black Knight (another bastard of Tom's), and they traveled together on many adventures.\n\n"}
{"id": "43640254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43640254", "title": "Federal Republic of Nigeria Official Gazette", "text": "Federal Republic of Nigeria Official Gazette\n\nFederal Republic of Nigeria Official Gazette is the government gazette for the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It has been published at Lagos since 1963 and replaced the \"Federation of Nigeria Official Gazette\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33260871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33260871", "title": "Filio ni doma", "text": "Filio ni doma\n\nFilio ni doma is a novel by Slovenian author Berta Bojetu. It was first published in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "43867249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43867249", "title": "Flag of Donetsk", "text": "Flag of Donetsk\n\nThe flag of Donetsk, Ukraine, has two horizontal stripes with the shield (in heraldry, an \"escutcheon\") of the city's coat of arms overlaid centrally.\n\nA rectangular panel with a ratio of 1.5 length to 1.2 width (). The flag is divided horizontally into two equal parts, the top half colored azure and the bottom sable (black). Overlaid in the center lies the shield (escutcheon) from the coat of arms of Donetsk. The flag is hoist at the left, with the flagpole tipped.\n\nThe shield is a pentagonal extension of a rectangle, with an Or (gold) hand clutching a hammer as if to strike, with a star at the edge of the top right canton, which should not be confused with it being at the upper dexter corner of the flag itself, which generally signifies a war flag.\n\nThe shield is a symbol from socialist heraldry and denotes the city's status as a major centre for the mining of coal and production of steel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "171143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171143", "title": "Greeklish", "text": "Greeklish\n\nGreeklish, a portmanteau of the words Greek and English, also known as Grenglish, Latinoellinika/Λατινοελληνικά or ASCII Greek, is the Greek language written using the Latin alphabet. Unlike standardized systems of Romanization of Greek, as used internationally for purposes such as rendering Greek proper names or place names, or for bibliographic purposes, the term \"Greeklish\" mainly refers to informal, ad-hoc practices of writing Greek text in environments where the use of the Greek alphabet is technically impossible or cumbersome, especially in electronic media. Greeklish was commonly used on the Internet when Greek people communicate by forum, e-mail, IRC, instant messaging and occasionally on SMS, mainly because older operating systems did not have the ability to write in Greek, or in a unicode form like UTF-8. Nowadays most Greek language content appears in the Greek alphabet.\n\nSometimes, the term Greeklish is also used informally for a non-standard language variety used by bilingual speakers of English and Greek, i.e. Greek with heavy macaronic or code-switching admixture of English words, or vice versa.\n\nSome older traditions of using the Latin alphabet for Greek existed in earlier centuries. The term frankolevantinika properly refers to the use of the Latin script to write Greek in the cultural ambit of Catholicism. (\"Frankos\" is an older Greek term for Roman Catholic.) This usage was routine in the Venetian-ruled Greece and in Venetian Crete in the early modern era. Indeed, the autograph manuscripts of several Greek literary works of the Renaissance are in Latin script (e.g. the comedy \"Fortounatos\" by Markos Antonios Foskolos, 1655). This convention was also known as frankochiotika/φραγκοχιώτικα, \"Frankish/Catholic Chiot\", alluding to the significant presence of Catholic missionaries based on the island of Chios.\n\nGreeklish may be orthographic or phonetic. In orthographic use, the intent is to reproduce Greek orthography closely: there is a one-to-one mapping between Greek and Latin letters, and digraphs are avoided, with occasional use of punctuation or numerals resembling Greek letters rather than Latin digraphs. While letters are in the first instance chosen for phonetic similarity, visual equivalence, and corresponding keyboard keys, are used when phonetically similar letters are exhausted. Thus, psi (ψ) may be written as ps, 4 or y; xi (ξ) as ks, x or 3; and theta (θ) as th or 8.\n\nIn phonetic use, there is no concern to reproduce Greek orthography, and the Greeklish is a phonetic transcription (usually with English phonetic norms, sometimes with other languages' like German) of Greek words — although often there is a mixture of the two. In particular, iotacism is preserved: the various letters and digraphs now pronounced as /i/ are transcribed as i, and not differentiated as they are in an orthographic scheme (e.g. h, i, u, ei, oi for η ι υ ει οι). In a phonetic scheme, xi is usually x or ks or 3; ks or 3 is used if x has been chosen, following orthographic norms, for chi (χ). Psi and theta will usually be the digraphs ps and th. 3 is often used to represent xi (ξ) because of the similar shape of the number 3 to the original letter albeit mirrored.\n\nAn example of orthographic Greeklish could be the word \"plateia\", which in Greek means \"square\" and using the Greek alphabet is spelled \"πλατεία\". The word \"plateia\" derives from the exact replacement of each Greek letter with its Latin respective: π=p, λ=l, α=a, τ=t, ε=e, ι=i, α=a.\n\nAn example of phonetic Greeklish could be the same word, \"square\", written like this: \"platia\". The reason the same word is, in this occasion, written without the letter \"e\", is the fact that, phonetically, the word \"square\" in Greek sounds exactly like this: \"platia\" (since -\"εί\"- is now pronounced /i/, as an instance of iotacism), but not for the phonology and the historical or learned pronunciation of the Ancient Greek language (where it was \"plateia\").\n\nThe most extreme case of orthographic Greeklish, which achieves the greater optical resemblance to the Greek prototypes, is perhaps the so-called \"byzantine\" or \"arabesque\" or \"calligraphic/artistic\" Greeklish introduced in the Hellas mailing list by the mathematician George Baloglou. Main characteristics of Baloglou's \"byzantine\" is the distinction of σ and s (σ=c ς=s), the distinction οf lower and upper letters, such as π=n, Π=TT or 5, θ=8, Θ=0 or Q, ψ=y, Ψ=4, and the unusual, but with great resemblance with the Greek prototype, transliterations σ=c, π=n ρ=p Ρ=P.\n\nSince there were many relevant differences both in the written and in the spoken language -such as in the grammar, orthography and phonology of Greek- at the time of the Ancient Greek, the Koine, Jewish Koine, Medieval and Modern, thus the same word across the history may change outstandingly and therefore have multiple choices of \"rendering\" (transliteration or transcription) depending on the time on which the referring text was written or translated.\n\nGiannis Androutsopoulos (see references) talks about \"Exegesis\", a book in Greeklish that was published by Oxy Publications in 2000. The Greeklish transliteration was based on the Greek translation of the original book written by Astro Teller. A novel about artificial intelligence, it describes a computer program that has acquired a \"mind\" of its own. The original book was written entirely in the form of e-mail messages, something that prompted Androutsopoulos and his collaborators to publish a version of it in Greeklish.\n\nIn the past there was a variety of mutually incompatible systems for displaying non-ASCII characters (IBM 437, ELOT 928, ISO 8859-7 plus a few company-specific encodings) and no standard method for typing them on a computer keyboard. This situation was resolved with the introduction of Unicode. Before the introduction of Unicode-compatible software (web servers and clients) many Greek personal or informal web sites were written in Greeklish. This is no longer the case and most (if not all) of the sites with Greek content are written in native Greek.\n\nAlmost all electronic mail messaging was also using Greeklish, and only recently, with the introduction of full Unicode compatibility in modern e-mail client software and gradual replacement of older programs, that usage of Greek characters became widespread.\n\nSome Internet Service Providers in Greece use both Greek and Greeklish in their emails. For example, the corporate announcements sent to users via email are usually written in English, Greek, and Greeklish. This is done to ensure that the recipient can understand an important service message even if the settings of their computer for non-ASCII characters don't match those of the sender.\n\nAs of 2008, business advertisements using Greeklish have appeared in Attiko Metro and other areas. Companies that have used Greeklish in some of their advertisements include Pizza Hut, Forthnet and Vodafone.\n\nUse of Greeklish for business purposes or business communication is considered as a lack of business ability or respect.\n\nAround 2004, after most computer software became compatible with Unicode UTF-8 or UTF-16 systems, use of Greeklish was strongly discouraged in many Greek online Web discussion boards (forums) where Greeklish was in use before. Administrators threatened to ban users who continued to use Greeklish, thus making the use of Greek mandatory; but using Greeklish failed to become a serious reason to get banned. Examples include the Translatum Greek Translation Forum, the Athens Wireless Metropolitan Network Forum, the Venus Project Forum, the adslgr.com Forum, the e-steki.gr forum, the Greek Technological Forum and the e-foititis.gr Greek student forum. The reason for this is the fact that text written in Greeklish is considerably less aesthetically pleasing, and also much harder to read, compared to text written in the Greek alphabet. A non-Greek speaker/reader can guess this by this example: \"δις ιζ χαρντ του ριντ\" would be the way to write \"this is hard to read\" in English but utilizing the Greek alphabet.\n\nA counterargument used by forum users is that a fair number of users live abroad and access the Internet from computers they don't own (university, internet cafes, etc.). There, they are not able to install additional keyboard layouts so they don't have the ability to type in Greek, therefore Greeklish is the only option available to them.\n\nOn Greek IRC channels and IM applications, most of the time only Greeklish is used because it is simpler to type and typing errors are more easily excused. However, Greeklish has been criticised because the user's text bypasses spellcheck, resulting in lowering their ability to write native Greek correctly.\n\nOn the Facebook social networking web site there are various groups against the use of \"Greeklish\".\n\nWide use for Greeklish in long texts as of 2010, is unusual.\n\nAnother current trend in Greeklish is the introduction of Leet phrasing and vocabulary. Many Leet words or slang have been internalized within the Greek spoken language through Greek gamers online in games such as World of Warcraft.\n\nExamples:\n\n\nSince the appearance of Greeklish there have been numerous attempts to develop applications for automatic conversion from Greeklish to Greek. Most of them can cope with only some of Greeklish transliteration patterns and can be found and downloaded from the Internet. The first complete system for automatic transcription of Greeklish into Greek, obtaining correct spelling is \" All Greek to Me!\" , developed and provided by Institute for Language and Speech Processing.\n\nThe first open online application for the transcription of Greeklish to Greek, was developed by Artificial Intelligence Group at University of Patras, named deGREEKLISH.\n\nAn open source Greeklish converter, written in the C# programming language, is available as a stand alone program.\n\n"}
{"id": "42541247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42541247", "title": "Guinean League for Ecological Protection", "text": "Guinean League for Ecological Protection\n\nThe Guinean League for Ecological Protection (, LIPE) is a political party in Guinea-Bissau.\n\nThe party was established on 20 July 1991 by Bubácar Rachid Djaló, and was legalised on 8 September 1993. In 1994 it joined the Union for Change, an alliance formed to contest the 1994 general elections. Djaló was the Union's presidential candidate, but received only 3% of the vote. However, the UM did win six seats in the National People's Assembly.\n\nThe 1999–2000 elections saw the UM lose three seats. Djaló remained the alliance's presidential candidate, but again received only 3% of the vote. Following the Union's support for the victorious Kumba Ialá in the run-off election, Djaló became Secretary of State for Commerce.\n\nIn 2002 LIPE left the UM and joined the Electoral Union (UE) alliance, which won two seats in the 2004 parliamentary elections. The UE was dissolved prior to the 2008 parliamentary elections and LIPE ran alone, receiving just 233 votes (0.05%). The party's application to contest the 2014 general elections was rejected by the Supreme Court.\n"}
{"id": "13467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13467", "title": "Hamburg", "text": "Hamburg\n\nHamburg (; ; officially the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg; ) is the second-largest city in Germany, with a population of 1.8 million.\n\nOne of Germany's 16 federal states, it is surrounded by Schleswig-Holstein to the north and Lower Saxony to the south. The city's metropolitan region is home to more than five million people. Hamburg lies on the River Elbe and two of its tributaries, the River Alster and the River Bille. \n\nThe official name reflects Hamburg's history as a member of the medieval Hanseatic League and a free imperial city of the Holy Roman Empire. Before the 1871 Unification of Germany, it was a fully sovereign city state, and before 1919 formed a civic republic headed constitutionally by a class of hereditary grand burghers or . Beset by disasters such as the Great Fire of Hamburg, north Sea flood of 1962 and military conflicts including World War II bombing raids, the city has managed to recover and emerge wealthier after each catastrophe.\n\nHamburg is Europe's third-largest port. Major regional broadcasting firm NDR, the printing and publishing firm and the newspapers and are based in the city. Hamburg is the seat of Germany's oldest stock exchange and the world's oldest merchant bank, Berenberg Bank. Media, commercial, logistical, and industrial firms with significant locations in the city include multinationals Airbus, , , , and Unilever.\n\nThe city hosts specialists in world economics and international law, including consular and diplomatic missions as the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, the EU-LAC Foundation, and the UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning, multipartite international political conferences and summits such as and the G20. Former German Chancellor and Angela Merkel, German chancellor since 2005, come from Hamburg.\n\nThe city is a major international and domestic tourist destination. It ranked 18th in the world for livability in 2016. The and were declared World Heritage Sites by UNESCO in 2015.\n\nHamburg is a major European science, research, and education hub, with several universities and institutions. Among its most notable cultural venues are the and concert halls. It gave birth to movements like and paved the way for bands including The Beatles. Hamburg is also known for several theatres and a variety of musical shows. St. Pauli's is among the best-known European entertainment districts.\n\nHamburg is at a sheltered natural harbour on the southern fanning-out of the Jutland Peninsula, between Continental Europe to the south and Scandinavia to the north, with the North Sea to the west and the Baltic Sea to the northeast. It is on the River Elbe at its confluence with the Alster and Bille. The city centre is around the Binnenalster (\"Inner Alster\") and Außenalster (\"Outer Alster\"), both formed by damming the River Alster to create lakes. The islands of Neuwerk, Scharhörn, and Nigehörn, away in the Hamburg Wadden Sea National Park, are also part of the city of Hamburg.\n\nThe neighborhoods of Neuenfelde, Cranz, Francop and Finkenwerder are part of the \"Altes Land\" (old land) region, the largest contiguous fruit-producing region in Central Europe. Neugraben-Fischbek has Hamburg's highest elevation, the Hasselbrack at AMSL. Hamburg borders the states of Schleswig-Holstein and Lower Saxony.\n\nHamburg has an oceanic climate (\"Cfb\"), influenced by its proximity to the coast and marine air masses that originate over the Atlantic Ocean. Nearby wetlands also enjoy a maritime temperate climate. The amount of snowfall has differed a lot during the past decades: while in the late 1970s and early 1980s, at times heavy snowfall occurred, the winters of recent years have been less cold, with snowfall only on a few days per year.\n\nThe warmest months are June, July, and August, with high temperatures of . The coldest are December, January, and February, with low temperatures of .\n\nClaudius Ptolemy (2nd century AD) reported the first name for the vicinity as Treva.\n\nThe name Hamburg comes from the first permanent building on the site, a castle which the Emperor Charlemagne ordered constructed in AD 808. It rose on rocky terrain in a marsh between the River Alster and the River Elbe as a defence against Slavic incursion, and acquired the name \"Hammaburg\", \"burg\" meaning castle or fort. The origin of the \"Hamma\" term remains uncertain, as does the exact location of the castle.\n\nIn 834, Hamburg was designated as the seat of a bishopric. The first bishop, Ansgar, became known as the Apostle of the North. Two years later, Hamburg was united with Bremen as the Bishopric of Hamburg-Bremen.\n\nHamburg was destroyed and occupied several times. In 845, 600 Viking ships sailed up the River Elbe and destroyed Hamburg, at that time a town of around 500 inhabitants. In 1030, King Mieszko II Lambert of Poland burned down the city. Valdemar II of Denmark raided and occupied Hamburg in 1201 and in 1214. The Black Death killed at least 60% of the population in 1350.\nHamburg experienced several great fires in the medieval period.\n\nIn 1189, by imperial charter, Frederick I \"Barbarossa\" granted Hamburg the status of an Free Imperial City and tax-free access (or free-trade zone) up the Lower Elbe into the North Sea. In 1265, an allegedly forged letter was presented to or by the Rath of Hamburg. This charter, along with Hamburg's proximity to the main trade routes of the North Sea and Baltic Sea, quickly made it a major port in Northern Europe. Its trade alliance with Lübeck in 1241 marks the origin and core of the powerful Hanseatic League of trading cities. On 8 November 1266, a contract between Henry III and Hamburg's traders allowed them to establish a \"hanse\" in London. This was the first time in history that the word \"hanse\" was used for the trading guild of the Hanseatic League.\nIn 1270, the solicitor of the senate of Hamburg, \"Jordan von Boitzenburg\", wrote the first description of civil, criminal and procedural law for a city in Germany in the German language, the \"Ordeelbook\" (\"Ordeel\": sentence). On 10 August 1410, civil unrest forced a compromise (German: \"Rezeß\", literally meaning: withdrawal). This is considered the first constitution of Hamburg. In 1529, the city embraced Lutheranism, and it received Reformed refugees from the Netherlands and France.\n\nWhen Jan van Valckenborgh introduced a second layer to the fortifications to protect against the Thirty Years War in the seventeenth century, he extended Hamburg and created a \"New Town\" (\"Neustadt\") whose street names still date from the grid system of roads he introduced.\n\nUpon the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806, the Free Imperial City of Hamburg was not incorporated into a larger administrative area while retaining special privileges (mediatised), but became a sovereign state with the official title of the \"Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg\". Hamburg was briefly annexed by Napoleon I to the First French Empire (1804–1814/1815). Russian forces under General Bennigsen finally freed the city in 1814. Hamburg re-assumed its pre-1811 status as a city-state in 1814. The Vienna Congress of 1815 confirmed Hamburg's independence and it became one of 39 sovereign states of the German Confederation (1815–1866).\n\nIn 1842, about a quarter of the inner city was destroyed in the \"Great Fire\". The fire started on the night of 4 May and was not extinguished until 8 May. It destroyed three churches, the town hall, and many other buildings, killing 51 people and leaving an estimated 20,000 homeless. Reconstruction took more than 40 years.\n\nAfter periodic political unrest, particularly in 1848, Hamburg adopted in 1860 a semidemocratic constitution that provided for the election of the Senate, the governing body of the city-state, by adult taxpaying males. Other innovations included the separation of powers, the separation of Church and State, freedom of the press, of assembly and association. Hamburg became a member of the North German Confederation (1866–1871) and of the German Empire (1871–1918), and maintained its self-ruling status during the Weimar Republic (1919–1933). Hamburg acceded to the German Customs Union or Zollverein in 1888, the last (along with Bremen) of the German states to join. The city experienced its fastest growth during the second half of the 19th century, when its population more than quadrupled to 800,000 as the growth of the city's Atlantic trade helped make it Europe's second-largest port. The Hamburg-America Line, with Albert Ballin as its director, became the world's largest transatlantic shipping company around the start of the 20th century. Shipping companies sailing to South America, Africa, India and East Asia were based in the city. Hamburg was the departure port for many Germans and Eastern Europeans to emigrate to the United States in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Trading communities from all over the world established themselves there.\n\nA major outbreak of cholera in 1892 was badly handled by the city government, which retained an unusual degree of independence for a German city. About 8,600 died in the largest German epidemic of the late 19th century, and the last major cholera epidemic in a major city of the Western world.\n\nIn Nazi Germany (1933–1945), Hamburg was a \"Gau\" from 1934 until 1945. During the Second World War, Hamburg suffered a series of Allied air raids which devastated much of the city and the harbour. On 23 July 1943, Royal Air Force (RAF) firebombing created a firestorm which spread from the \"Hauptbahnhof\" (main railway station) and quickly moved south-east, completely destroying entire boroughs such as Hammerbrook, Billbrook and Hamm South. Thousands of people perished in these densely populated working class boroughs. The raids, codenamed Operation Gomorrah by the RAF, killed at least 42,600 civilians; the precise number is not known.\nAbout one million civilians were evacuated in the aftermath of the raids. While some of the boroughs destroyed were rebuilt as residential districts after the war, others such as Hammerbrook were entirely developed into office, retail and limited residential or industrial districts. \n\nThe Hamburg Commonwealth War Graves Commission Cemetery is in the greater Ohlsdorf Cemetery in the north of Hamburg.\n\nAt least 42,900 people are thought to have perished in the Neuengamme concentration camp (about outside the city in the marshlands), mostly from epidemics and in the bombing of Kriegsmarine evacuation vessels by the RAF at the end of the war.\n\nHamburg had the greatest concentration of Jews in Germany. Systematic deportations of Jewish Germans and Gentile Germans of Jewish descent started on 18 October 1941. These were all directed to Ghettos in Nazi-occupied Europe or to concentration camps. Most deported persons perished in the Holocaust. By the end of 1942 the \"Jüdischer Religionsverband in Hamburg\" was dissolved as an independent legal entity and its remaining assets and staff were assumed by the Reichsvereinigung der Juden in Deutschland (District Northwest). On 10 June 1943 the Reichssicherheitshauptamt dissolved the \"Reichsvereinigung\" by a decree. The few remaining employees not somewhat protected by a mixed marriage were deported from Hamburg on 23 June to Theresienstadt, where most of them perished.\n\nHamburg surrendered without a fight to British Forces on 3 May 1945, three days after Adolf Hitler's death. After the Second World War, Hamburg formed part of the British Zone of Occupation; it became a state of the then Federal Republic of Germany in 1949.\n\nFrom 1960 to 1962, the Beatles launched their career by playing in various music clubs like the Star Club in the city.\n\nOn 16 February 1962, a North Sea flood caused the Elbe to rise to an all-time high, inundating one-fifth of Hamburg and killing more than 300 people.\n\nThe Inner German border – only east of Hamburg – separated the city from most of its hinterland and reduced Hamburg's global trade. Since German reunification in 1990, and the accession of several Central European and Baltic states into the European Union in 2004, the Port of Hamburg has restarted ambitions for regaining its position as the region's largest deep-sea port for container shipping and its major commercial and trading centre.\n\nOn 31 December 2016, there were 1,860,759 people registered as living in Hamburg in an area of . The population density was . The metropolitan area of the Hamburg region (Hamburg Metropolitan Region) is home to 5,107,429 living on .\n\nThere were 915,319 women and 945,440 men in Hamburg. For every 1,000 females, there were 1,033 males. In 2015, there were 19,768 births in Hamburg (of which 38.3% were to unmarried women); 6422 marriages and 3190 divorces, and 17,565 deaths. In the city, the population was spread out with 16.1% under the age of 18, and 18.3% were 65 years of age or older. 356 People in Hamburg were over the age of 100.\n\nAccording to the Statistical Office for Hamburg and Schleswig Holstein, the number of people with a migrant background is at 34% (631,246). Immigrants come from 180 different countries. 5,891 people have acquired German cititzenship in 2016.\n\nIn 2016, there were 1,021,666 households, of which 17.8% had children under the age of 18; 54.4% of all households were made up of singles. 25.6% of all households were single parent households. The average household size was 1.8.\n\nHamburg residents with a foreign citizenship as of 31 December 2016 is as follows\nLike elsewhere in Germany, Standard German is spoken in Hamburg, but as typical for northern Germany, the original language of Hamburg is Low German, usually referred to as \"Hamborger Platt\" (German \"Hamburger Platt\") or \"Hamborgsch\". Since large-scale standardization of the German language beginning in earnest in the 18th century, various Low German-colored dialects have developed (contact-varieties of German on Low Saxon substrates). Originally, there was a range of such Missingsch varieties, the best-known being the low-prestige ones of the working classes and the somewhat more bourgeois \"Hanseatendeutsch\" (Hanseatic German), although the term is used in appreciation. All of these are now moribund due to the influences of Standard German used by education and media. However, the former importance of Low German is indicated by several songs, such as the famous sea shanty Hamborger Veermaster, written in the 19th century when Low German was used more frequently. Many toponyms and street names reflect Low Saxon vocabulary, partially even in Low Saxon spelling, which is not standardised, and to some part in forms adapted to Standard German.\n\nLess than half of the residents of Hamburg are members of a religion.\nIn late 2015, 27.0% of the population belonged to the North Elbian Evangelical Lutheran Church, the largest religious body, and 10.7% to the Roman Catholic Church. An additional 55% stated they had no religion.\n\nAccording to the publication \"Muslimisches Leben in Deutschland\" (\"Muslim life in Germany\") estimated 141,900 Muslim migrants (counting in nearly 50 countries of origin) lived in Hamburg in 2008. About three years later (May 2011) calculations based on census data for 21 countries of origin resulted in the number of about 143,200 Muslim migrants in Hamburg, making up 8.4% percent of the population.\n\nHamburg is seat of one of the three bishops of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Northern Germany and seat of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Hamburg. There are several mosques, including the Ahmadiyya run Fazle Omar Mosque, which is the oldest in the city, the Islamic Centre Hamburg, and a Jewish community.\n\nThe city of Hamburg is one of 16 German states, therefore the Mayor of Hamburg's office corresponds more to the role of a minister-president than to the one of a city mayor. As a German state government, it is responsible for public education, correctional institutions and public safety; as a municipality, it is additionally responsible for libraries, recreational facilities, sanitation, water supply and welfare services.\n\nSince 1897, the seat of the government has been the Hamburg Rathaus (Hamburg City Hall), with the office of the mayor, the meeting room for the Senate and the floor for the Hamburg Parliament. From 2001 until 2010, the mayor of Hamburg was Ole von Beust, who governed in Germany's first statewide \"black-green\" coalition, consisting of the conservative CDU and the alternative GAL, which are Hamburg's regional wing of the Alliance 90/The Greens party. Von Beust was briefly succeeded by Christoph Ahlhaus in 2010, but the coalition broke apart on November, 28. 2010. On 7 March 2011 Olaf Scholz (SPD) became mayor. After the 2015 election the SPD and the Alliance 90/The Greens formed a coalition.\n\nHamburg is made up of seven boroughs (German: \"Bezirke\") and subdivided into 104 quarters (German: \"Stadtteile\"). There are 181 localities (German: \"Ortsteile\"). The urban organization is regulated by the Constitution of Hamburg and several laws. Most of the quarters were former independent cities, towns or villages annexed into Hamburg proper. The last large annexation was done through the Greater Hamburg Act of 1937, when the cities Altona, Harburg and Wandsbek were merged into the state of Hamburg. The \"Act of the Constitution and Administration of Hanseatic city of Hamburg\" established Hamburg as a state and a municipality. Some of the boroughs and quarters have been rearranged several times.\n\nEach borough is governed by a Borough Council (German: \"Bezirksversammlung\") and administered by a Municipal Administrator (German: \"Bezirksamtsleiter\"). The boroughs are not independent municipalities: their power is limited and subordinate to the Senate of Hamburg. The borough administrator is elected by the Borough Council and thereafter requires confirmation and appointment by Hamburg's Senate. The quarters have no governing bodies of their own.\nIn 2008, the boroughs were Hamburg-Mitte, Altona, Eimsbüttel, Hamburg-Nord, Wandsbek, Bergedorf and Harburg.\n\n\"Hamburg-Mitte\" (\"Hamburg Centre\") covers mostly the urban centre of the city and consists of the quarters Billbrook, Billstedt, Borgfelde, Finkenwerder, HafenCity, Hamm, Hammerbrook, Horn, Kleiner Grasbrook, Neuwerk, Rothenburgsort, St. Georg, St. Pauli, Steinwerder, Veddel, Waltershof and Wilhelmsburg. The quarters Hamburg-Altstadt (\"old town\") and Neustadt (\"new town\") are the historical origin of Hamburg.\n\n\"Altona\" is the westernmost urban borough, on the right bank of the Elbe river. From 1640 to 1864, Altona was under the administration of the Danish monarchy. Altona was an independent city until 1937. Politically, the following quarters are part of Altona: Altona-Altstadt, Altona-Nord, Bahrenfeld, Ottensen, Othmarschen, Groß Flottbek, Osdorf, Lurup, Nienstedten, Blankenese, Iserbrook, Sülldorf, Rissen, Sternschanze.\n\n\"Bergedorf\" consists of the quarters Allermöhe, Altengamme, Bergedorf—the centre of the former independent town, Billwerder, Curslack, Kirchwerder, Lohbrügge, Moorfleet, Neuengamme, Neuallermöhe, Ochsenwerder, Reitbrook, Spadenland and Tatenberg.\n\n\"Eimsbüttel\" is split into nine quarters: Eidelstedt, Eimsbüttel, Harvestehude, Hoheluft-West, Lokstedt, Niendorf, Rotherbaum, Schnelsen and Stellingen. Located within this borough is former Jewish neighbourhood Grindel.\n\n\"Hamburg-Nord\" contains the quarters Alsterdorf, Barmbek-Nord, Barmbek-Süd, Dulsberg, Eppendorf, Fuhlsbüttel, Groß Borstel, Hoheluft-Ost, Hohenfelde, Langenhorn, Ohlsdorf with Ohlsdorf cemetery, Uhlenhorst and Winterhude.\n\n\"Harburg\" lies on the southern shores of the river Elbe and covers parts of the port of Hamburg, residential and rural areas, and some research institutes. The quarters are Altenwerder, Cranz, Eißendorf, Francop, Gut Moor, Harburg, Hausbruch, Heimfeld, Langenbek, Marmstorf, Moorburg, Neuenfelde, Neugraben-Fischbek, Neuland, Rönneburg, Sinstorf and Wilstorf.\n\n\"Wandsbek\" is divided into the quarters Bergstedt, Bramfeld, Duvenstedt, Eilbek, Farmsen-Berne, Hummelsbüttel, Jenfeld, Lemsahl-Mellingstedt, Marienthal, Poppenbüttel, Rahlstedt, Sasel, Steilshoop, Tonndorf, Volksdorf, Wandsbek, Wellingsbüttel and Wohldorf-Ohlstedt.\n\nHamburg has architecturally significant buildings in a wide range of styles and no skyscrapers (see List of tallest buildings in Hamburg). Churches are important landmarks, such as St Nicholas', which for a short time in the 19th century was the world's tallest building. The skyline features the tall spires of the most important churches (\"Hauptkirchen\") St Michael's (nicknamed \"Michel\"), St Peter's, St James's (\"St. Jacobi\") and St. Catherine's covered with copper plates, and the Heinrich-Hertz-Turm, the radio and television tower (no longer publicly accessible).\n\nThe many streams, rivers and canals are crossed by some 2,500 bridges, more than London, Amsterdam and Venice put together. Hamburg has more bridges inside its city limits than any other city in the world. The Köhlbrandbrücke, Freihafen Elbbrücken, and Lombardsbrücke and Kennedybrücke dividing Binnenalster from Aussenalster are important roadways.\n\nThe town hall is a richly decorated Neo-Renaissance building finished in 1897.\nThe tower is high. Its façade, long, depicts the emperors of the Holy Roman Empire, since Hamburg was, as a Free Imperial City, only under the sovereignty of the emperor. The Chilehaus, a brick expressionist office building built in 1922 and designed by architect Fritz Höger, is shaped like an ocean liner.\n\nEurope's largest urban development since 2008, the HafenCity, will house about 10,000 inhabitants and 15,000 workers. The plan includes designs by Rem Koolhaas and Renzo Piano. The Elbphilharmonie \"(Elbe Philharmonic Hall)\", opened in January 2017, houses concerts in a sail-shaped building on top of an old warehouse, designed by architects \"Herzog & de Meuron\".\n\nThe many parks are distributed over the whole city, which makes Hamburg a very verdant city. The biggest parks are the \"Stadtpark\", the Ohlsdorf Cemetery and Planten un Blomen. The \"Stadtpark\", Hamburg's \"Central Park\", has a great lawn and a huge water tower, which houses one of Europe's biggest planetaria. The park and its buildings were designed by Fritz Schumacher in the 1910s.\n\nThe lavish and spacious \"Planten un Blomen\" park (Low German dialect for \"plants and flowers\") located in the centre of Hamburg is the green heart of the city. Within the park are various thematic gardens, the biggest Japanese garden in Germany, and the \"Alter Botanischer Garten Hamburg\", which is a historic botanical garden that now consists primarily of greenhouses.\n\nThe \"Botanischer Garten Hamburg\" is a modern botanical garden maintained by the University of Hamburg. Besides these, there are many more parks of various sizes. In 2014 Hamburg celebrated a birthday of park culture, where many parks were reconstructed and cleaned up. Moreover, every year there are the famous water-light-concerts in the \"Planten un Blomen\" park from May to early October.\n\nHamburg has more than 40 theatres, 60 museums and 100 music venues and clubs. In 2005, more than 18 million people visited concerts, exhibitions, theatres, cinemas, museums, and cultural events. More than 8,552 taxable companies (average size 3.16 employees) were engaged in the culture sector, which includes music, performing arts and literature. There are five companies in the creative sector per thousand residents (as compared to three in Berlin and 37 in London).\nHamburg has entered the European Green Capital Award scheme, and was awarded the title of European Green Capital for 2011.\n\nThe state-owned \"Deutsches Schauspielhaus\", the Thalia Theatre, Ohnsorg Theatre, \"Schmidts Tivoli\" and the \"Kampnagel\" are well-known theatres.\n\nThe English Theatre of Hamburg near U3 Mundsburg station was established in 1976 and is the oldest professional English-speaking theatre in Germany, and has exclusively English native-speaking actors in its company.\n\nHamburg has several large museums and galleries showing classical and contemporary art, for example the Kunsthalle Hamburg with its contemporary art gallery (\"Galerie der Gegenwart\"), the Museum for Art and Industry (\"Museum für Kunst und Gewerbe\") and the Deichtorhallen/House of Photography. The Internationales Maritimes Museum Hamburg opened in the HafenCity quarter in 2008. There are various specialised museums in Hamburg, such as the Archaeological Museum Hamburg (\"Archäologisches Museum Hamburg\") in Hamburg-Harburg, the Hamburg Museum of Work (\"Museum der Arbeit\"), and several museums of local history, for example the Kiekeberg Open Air Museum (\"Freilichtmuseum am Kiekeberg\"). Two \"museum ships\" near Landungsbrücken bear witness to the freight ship (\"Cap San Diego\") and cargo sailing ship era (\"Rickmer Rickmers\"). The world's largest model railway museum Miniatur Wunderland with total railway length is also situated near Landungsbrücken in a former warehouse.\n\n\"BallinStadt (Emigration City)\" is dedicated to the millions of Europeans who emigrated to North and South America between 1850 and 1939. Visitors descending from those overseas emigrants may search for their ancestors at computer terminals.\n\nHamburg State Opera is a leading opera company. Its orchestra is the Philharmoniker Hamburg. The city's other well-known orchestra is the NDR Elbphilharmonie Orchestra. The main concert venue is the new concert hall Elbphilharmonie. Before it was the Laeiszhalle, \"Musikhalle Hamburg\". The Laeiszhalle also houses a third orchestra, the Hamburger Symphoniker. György Ligeti and Alfred Schnittke taught at the Hochschule für Musik und Theater Hamburg.\n\nSince the German premiere of \"Cats\" in 1986, there have always been musicals running, including \"The Phantom of the Opera\", \"The Lion King\", \"Dirty Dancing\" and \"Dance of the Vampires (musical)\". This density, the highest in Germany, is partly due to the major musical production company \"Stage Entertainment\" being based in the city.\n\nHamburg is the birthplace of Johannes Brahms, who spent his formative early years in the city, and the birthplace and home of the famous waltz composer Oscar Fetrás, who wrote the well-known \"Mondnacht auf der Alster\" waltz.\n\nPrior to the group's initial recording and widespread fame, Hamburg provided residency and performing venues for the Beatles from 1960 to 1962. Hamburg has nurtured a number of pop musicians. Identical twins Bill Kaulitz and Tom Kaulitz from the rock band Tokio Hotel live and maintain a recording studio in Hamburg, where they recorded their second and third albums, Zimmer 483 and Humanoid. Singer Nena also lives in Hamburg. There are German hip hop acts, such as Fünf Sterne deluxe, Samy Deluxe, Beginner and Fettes Brot. There is a substantial alternative and punk scene, which gathers around the Rote Flora, a squatted former theatre located in the Sternschanze. Hamburg is famous for an original kind of German alternative music called \"Hamburger Schule\" (\"Hamburg School\"), a term used for bands like Tocotronic, Blumfeld, Tomte or Kante.\n\nThe city was a major centre for heavy metal music in the 1980s. Helloween, Gamma Ray, Running Wild and Grave Digger started in Hamburg. The industrial rock band KMFDM was also formed in Hamburg, initially as a performance art project. The influences of these and other bands from the area helped establish the subgenre of power metal.\n\nHamburg has a vibrant psychedelic trance community, with record labels such as Spirit Zone.\n\nHamburg is noted for several festivals and regular events. Some of them are street festivals, such as the gay pride \"Hamburg Pride\" festival or the Alster fair (German: \"Alstervergnügen\"), held at the \"Binnenalster\". The \"Hamburger DOM\" is northern Germany's biggest funfair, held three times a year. \"Hafengeburtstag\" is a funfair to honour the birthday of the port of Hamburg with a party and a ship parade. The annual biker's service in Saint Michael's Church attracts tens of thousands of bikers. Christmas markets in December are held at the Hamburg Rathaus square, among other places. The \"long night of museums\" (German: \"Lange Nacht der Museen\") offers one entrance fee for about 40 museums until midnight. The sixth \"Festival of Cultures\" was held in September 2008, celebrating multi-cultural life. The Filmfest Hamburg — a film festival originating from the 1950s \"Film Days\" (German: \"Film Tage\") — presents a wide range of films. The \"Hamburg Messe and Congress\" offers a venue for trade shows, such \"hanseboot\", an international boat show, or \"Du und deine Welt\", a large consumer products show. Regular sports events—some open to pro and amateur participants—are the cycling competition EuroEyes Cyclassics, the Hamburg Marathon, the biggest marathon in Germany after Berlin, the tennis tournament Hamburg Masters and equestrian events like the Deutsches Derby. Since 2007, Hamburg has the Dockville music and art festival. It takes place every year in summer in Wilhelmsburg.\n\nOriginal Hamburg dishes are \"Birnen, Bohnen und Speck\" (green beans cooked with pears and bacon), \"Aalsuppe\" (Hamburgisch \"Oolsupp\") is often mistaken to be German for \"eel soup\" (\"Aal\"/\"Ool\" translated ‘eel’), but the name probably comes from the Low Saxon \"allns\" , meaning \"all\", \"everything and the kitchen sink\", not necessarily eel. Today eel is often included to meet the expectations of unsuspecting diners. There is \"Bratkartoffeln\" (pan-fried potato slices), \"Finkenwerder Scholle\" (Low Saxon \"Finkwarder Scholl\", pan-fried plaice), \"Pannfisch\" (pan-fried fish with mustard sauce), \"Rote Grütze\" (Low Saxon \"Rode Grütt\", related to Danish \"rødgrød\", a type of summer pudding made mostly from berries and usually served with cream, like Danish \"rødgrød med fløde\") and \"Labskaus\" (a mixture of corned beef, mashed potatoes and beetroot, a cousin of the Norwegian \"lapskaus\" and Liverpool's lobscouse, all offshoots off an old-time one-pot meal that used to be the main component of the common sailor's humdrum diet on the high seas).\n\n\"Alsterwasser\" (in reference to the city's river, the Alster) is the local name for a type of shandy, a concoction of equal parts of beer and carbonated lemonade (\"Zitronenlimonade\"), the lemonade being added to the beer.\n\nThere is the curious regional dessert pastry called Franzbrötchen. Looking rather like a flattened croissant, it is similar in preparation but includes a cinnamon and sugar filling, often with raisins or brown sugar streusel. The name may also reflect to the roll's croissant-like appearance – \"franz\" appears to be a shortening of \"französisch\", meaning \"French\", which would make a \"Franzbrötchen\" a \"French roll\".\nOrdinary bread rolls tend to be oval-shaped and of the French bread variety. The local name is \"Schrippe\" (scored lengthways) for the oval kind and, for the round kind, \"Rundstück\" (\"round piece\" rather than mainstream German \"Brötchen\", diminutive form of \"Brot\" \"bread\"), a relative of Denmark's \"rundstykke\". In fact, while by no means identical, the cuisines of Hamburg and Denmark, especially of Copenhagen, have a lot in common. This also includes a predilection for open-faced sandwiches of all sorts, especially topped with cold-smoked or pickled fish.\n\nThe American hamburger may have developed from Hamburg's \"Frikadeller\": a pan-fried patty (usually larger and thicker than its American counterpart) made from a mixture of ground beef, soaked stale bread, egg, chopped onion, salt and pepper, usually served with potatoes and vegetables like any other piece of meat, not usually on a bun. The Oxford Dictionary defined a \"Hamburger steak\" in 1802: a sometimes-smoked and -salted piece of meat, that, according to some sources, came from Hamburg to America. The name and food, \"hamburger\", has entered all English-speaking countries, and derivative words in non-English speaking countries.\n\nThere are restaurants which offer most of these dishes, especially in the HafenCity.\n\nHamburg has long been a centre of alternative music and counter culture movements. The boroughs of St. Pauli, Sternschanze and Altona are known for being home to many radical left-wing and anarchist groups, culminating every year during the traditional May Day demonstrations.\n\nThe Rote Flora is a former theatre, which was squatted in 1989 in the wake of re-development plans for that area. Since then, the Rote Flora has become one of the most well-known strongholds against gentrification and a place for radical culture throughout Germany and Europe. Especially during the 33rd G8 summit in nearby Heiligendamm, the Rote Flora served as an important venue for organising the counter-protests that were taking place back then.\n\nDuring the 2017 G20 summit, which took place in Hamburg from 7–8 July that year, protestors clashed violently with the police in the Sternschanze area and particularly around the Rote Flora. On 7 July, several cars were set on fire and street barricades were erected to prevent the police from entering the area. In response to that, the police made heavy use of water cannons and tear gas in order to scatter the protestors. However, this was met with strong resistance by protestors, resulting in a total of 160 injured police and 75 arrested participants in the protests.\n\nAfter the summit, however, the Rote Flora issued a statement, in which it condemns the arbitrary acts of violence that were committed by some of the protestors whilst generally defending the right to use violence as a means of self-defence against police oppression. In particular, the spokesperson of the Rote Flora said that the autonomous cultural centre had a traditionally good relationship with its neighbours and local residents, since they were united in their fight against gentrification in that neighbourhood.\n\nThere are several English-speaking communities, such as the Caledonian Society of Hamburg, The British Club Hamburg, British and Commonwealth Luncheon Club, Anglo-German Club e.V., Professional Women's Forum, The British Decorative and Fine Arts Society, The English Speaking Union of the Commonwealth, The Scottish Country Dancers of Hamburg, The Hamburg Players e.V. English Language Theatre Group, The Hamburg Exiles Rugby Club, several cricket clubs, and The Morris Minor Register of Hamburg. Furthermore, the Anglo-Hanseatic Lodge No. 850 within the Grand Lodge of British Freemasons of Germany under the United Grand Lodges of Germany works in Hamburg, and has a diverse expat membership. There is also a 400-year-old Anglican church community worshiping at \"St Thomas Becket Church\". \n\nAmerican and international English-speaking organisations include The American Club of Hamburg e.V., the American Women's Club of Hamburg, the English Speaking Union, the German-American Women's Club,and The International Women's Club of Hamburg e.V. \"The American Chamber of Commerce\" handles matters related to business affairs. The International School of Hamburg serves school children.\n\nWilliam Wordsworth, Dorothy Wordsworth and Samuel Taylor Coleridge spent the last two weeks of September 1798 at Hamburg. \nDorothy wrote a detailed journal of their stay, labelled \"The Hamburg Journal (1798) by noted Wordsworth scholar Edward de Selincourt.\n\nA Hamburg saying, referring to its anglophile nature, is: \"Wenn es in London anfängt zu regnen, spannen die Hamburger den Schirm auf.\" ... \"When it starts raining in London, people in Hamburg open their umbrellas.\".\n\nA memorial for successful English engineer William Lindley, who reorganized, beginning in 1842, the drinking water and sewage system and thus helped to fight against cholera, is near Baumwall train station in Vorsetzen street.\n\nIn 2009, more than 2,500 \"stumbling blocks\" \"(Stolpersteine)\" were laid, engraved with the names of deported and murdered citizens. Inserted into the pavement in front of their former houses, the blocks draw attention to the victims of Nazi persecution.\n\nThe 2016 gross domestic product (GDP) totaled €110.7 billion. The city has a relatively high employment rate, at 88 percent of the working-age population, employed in over 160,000 businesses. The average income in 2016 of employees was €49,332.\n\nThe unemployment rate stood at 6.1% in October 2018 and was higher than the German average.\n\nHamburg has for centuries been a commercial centre of Northern Europe, and is the most important banking city of Northern Germany. The city is the seat of Germany's oldest bank, the Berenberg Bank, M.M.Warburg & CO and HSH Nordbank. The Hamburg Stock Exchange is the oldest of its kind in Germany.\n\nThe most significant economic unit is the Port of Hamburg, which ranks third to Rotterdam and Antwerpen in Europe and 17th-largest worldwide with transshipments of of cargo and 138.2 million tons of goods in 2016. International trade is also the reason for the large number of consulates in the city. Although situated up the Elbe, it is considered a sea port due to its ability to handle large ocean-going vessels.\n\nHeavy industry of Hamburg includes the making of steel, aluminium, copper and various large shipyards such as Blohm + Voss.\n\nHamburg, along with Seattle and Toulouse, is an important location of the civil aerospace industry. Airbus, which has an assembly plant in Finkenwerder, employs over 13,000 people.\n\nHamburg is also home to Rotring, the famed maker of technical drawing instruments and pens, and DVA Group, a multinational pharmaceutical and life sciences company.\n\nThe HafenCity is Europe's largest urban development project and is located in the Hamburg-Mitte district. It consists of the area of the Great Grasbrook, the northern part of the former Elbe island Grasbrook, and the warehouse district on the former Elbe island Kehrwieder and Wandrahm. It is bordered to the north, separated by the customs channel to Hamburg's city center, west and south by the Elbe and to the east, bounded by the upper harbor, Rothenburgsort. The district is full of rivers and streams and is surrounded by channels, and has a total area of about 2.2 square-kilometers.\n\nHafenCity has 155 hectares in the area formerly belonging to the free port north of the Great Grasbrook. Residential units for up to 12,000 people are planned to be built on the site by around the mid-2020s, and jobs for up to 40,000 people, mainly in the office sector, should be created. It is the largest ongoing urban development project in Hamburg.\n\nConstruction work started in 2003, and in 2009 the first part of the urban development project was finished with the completion of the Dalmannkai / Sandtorkai neighborhood – which is the first stage of the HafenCity project. According to the person responsible for the development and commercialization of HafenCity, \"HafenCity Hamburg GmbH\", half of the master plan underlying structural construction is already completed, whereas the other half is either under construction or is in the construction preparation stages.\n\nMany companies operating in E-Commerce have moved into HafenCity or started there. In addition to cruise agents such as the CaptainTravel GmbH many start-up companies that have no direct connection to the port or ships can be found in HafenCity.\n\nIn 2016, more than 6,566,071 visitors with 13,331,001 overnight stays visited the city. The tourism sector employs more than 175,000 people full-time and brings in revenue of almost €9 billion, making the tourism industry a major economic force in the Hamburg Metropolitan Region. Hamburg has one of the fastest-growing tourism industries in Germany. From 2001 to 2007, the overnight stays in the city increased by 55.2% (Berlin +52.7%, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern +33%).\n\nA typical Hamburg visit includes a tour of the city hall and the grand church St. Michaelis (called the \"Michel\"), and visiting the old warehouse district (\"Speicherstadt\") and the harbour promenade (\"Landungsbrücken\"). Sightseeing buses connect these points of interest. As Hamburg is one of the world's largest harbours many visitors take one of the harbour and/or canal boat tours (\"Große Hafenrundfahrt\", \"Fleetfahrt\") which start from the \"Landungsbrücken\". Major destinations also include museums.\n\nThe area of Reeperbahn in the quarter St. Pauli is Europe's largest red light district and home of strip clubs, brothels, bars and nightclubs. The singer and actor Hans Albers is strongly associated with St. Pauli, and wrote the neighbourhood's unofficial anthem, \"Auf der Reeperbahn Nachts um Halb Eins\" (\"On the Reeperbahn at Half Past Midnight\") in the 1940s. The Beatles had stints on the Reeperbahn early in their careers. Others prefer the laid-back neighbourhood \"Schanze\" with its street cafés, or a barbecue on one of the beaches along the river Elbe. Hamburg's famous zoo, the Tierpark Hagenbeck, was founded in 1907 by Carl Hagenbeck as the first zoo with moated, barless enclosures.\n\nIn 2016, the average visitor spent two nights in Hamburg. The majority of visitors come from Germany. Most foreigners are European, especially from Denmark (395,681 overnight stays), the United Kingdom (301,000 overnight stays), Switzerland (340,156 overnight stays), Austria (about 252,397 overnight stays) and the Netherlands (about 182,610 overnight stays). The largest group from outside Europe comes from the United States (206,614 overnight stays).\n\nThe Queen Mary 2 has docked regularly since 2004, and there were six departures planned from 2010 onwards.\n\nMedia businesses employ over 70,000 people. The Norddeutscher Rundfunk which includes the television station NDR Fernsehen is based in Hamburg, as are the commercial television station \"Hamburg 1\", the Christian television station \"Bibel TV\" and the civil media outlet \"Tide TV\". There are regional radio stations such as Radio Hamburg. Some of Germany's largest publishing companies, Axel Springer AG, Gruner + Jahr, Bauer Media Group are located in the city. Many national newspapers and magazines such as \"Der Spiegel\" and \"Die Zeit\" are produced in Hamburg, as well as some special-interest newspapers such as \"Financial Times Deutschland\". \"Hamburger Abendblatt\" and \"Hamburger Morgenpost\" are daily regional newspapers with a large circulation. There are music publishers, such as Warner Bros. Records Germany, and ICT firms such as Adobe Systems and Google Germany.\n\nHamburg was one of the locations for the James Bond series film \"Tomorrow Never Dies\". The \"Reeperbahn\" has been the location for many scenes, including the 1994 Beatles film \"Backbeat\". The film \"A Most Wanted Man\" was set in and filmed in Hamburg. Hamburg was also shown in \"An American Tail\" where Fievel Mousekewitz and his family immigrate to America in the hopes to escape cats.\n\nHamburg has 54 hospitals. The University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, with about 1,736 beds, houses a large medical school. There are also smaller private hospitals. On 1 January 2011 there were about 12,507 hospital beds. The city had 5,663 physicians in private practice and 456 pharmacies in 2010.\n\nHamburg is a major transportation hub, connected to four Autobahnen (motorways) and the most important railway junction on the route to Scandinavia.\n\nBridges and tunnels connect the northern and southern parts of the city, such as the old Elbe Tunnel (\"Alter Elbtunnel\") or St. Pauli Elbtunnel (official name) which opened in 1911, now is major tourist sight, and the Elbe Tunnel (\"Elbtunnel\") the crossing of a motorway.\n\nHamburg Airport is the oldest airport in Germany still in operation. There is also the smaller Hamburg Finkenwerder Airport, used only as a company airport for Airbus. Some airlines market Lübeck Airport in Lübeck as serving Hamburg.\n\nHamburg's licence plate prefix was \"HH\" (Hansestadt Hamburg; English: Hanseatic City of Hamburg) between 1906 and 1945 and from 1956 onwards, rather than the single letter normally used for large cities since the federal registration reform in 1956, such as B for Berlin or M for Munich. \"H\" was Hamburg's prefix in the years between 1945 and 1947 (used by Hanover since 1956);\n\nPublic transport by rail, bus and ship is organised by the \"Hamburger Verkehrsverbund\" (\"Hamburg transit authority\") (HVV). Tickets sold by one company are valid on all other HVV companies' services. The HVV was the first organisation of this kind worldwide.\n\n33 mass transit rail lines across the city are the backbone of public transport. The S-Bahn (heavy railway system) comprises six lines and the U-Bahn four lines – \"U-Bahn\" is short for \"Untergrundbahn\" (underground railway). Approximately of of the U-Bahn is underground; most is on embankments or viaduct or at ground level. Older residents still speak of the system as \"Hochbahn\" (elevated railway), also because the operating company of the subway is the \"Hamburger Hochbahn\". The AKN railway connects satellite towns in Schleswig-Holstein to the city. On some routes regional trains of Germany's major railway company Deutsche Bahn AG and the regional \"metronom\" trains may be used with an HVV ticket. Except at the four bigger stations of the city, Hauptbahnhof, Dammtor, Altona and Harburg regional trains do not stop inside the city. The tram system was opened in 1866 and shut down in 1978.\n\nGaps in the rail network are filled by more than 669 bus routes, operated by single-deck two-, three- and four-axle diesel buses. Hamburg has no trams or trolleybuses, but has hydrogen-fueled buses. The buses run frequently during working hours, with buses on some so-called MetroBus routes as often as every 2 minutes. On special weekday night lines the intervals can be 30 minutes or longer, on normal days (Monday-Friday) the normal buses stop running at night. (MetroBuses run all around the clock, every day at the year at least every half-hour.)\n\nThere are eight ferry lines along the River Elbe, operated by \"HADAG\", that fall under the aegis of the HVV. While mainly used by citizens and dock workers, they can also be used for sightseeing tours.\n\nThe international airport at Hamburg Fuhlsbüttel, official name Hamburg Airport „Helmut Schmidt“ (IATA: HAM, ICAO: EDDH) is the fifth biggest and oldest airport in Germany, having been established in 1912 and located about from the city centre. About 60 airlines provide service to 125 destination airports, including some long distance destinations like Newark, New Jersey on United Airlines, Dubai on Emirates, and Tehran on Iran Air; Lufthansa is the hub carrier, with the most flights and operates one of its biggest maintenance facilities at the Hamburg airport (Lufthansa Technik). The second airport is located in Hamburg-Finkenwerder, official name Hamburg Finkenwerder Airport (IATA: XFW, ICAO: EDHI). It is about from the city centre and is a nonpublic airport for the Airbus plant. It is the second biggest Airbus plant, after Toulouse, and the third biggest aviation manufacturing plant after Seattle and Toulouse; the plant houses the final assembly lines for A318, A319, A320, A321 and A380 aircraft.\n\nThe average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Hamburg, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 58 min. 16% of public transit riders, ride for more than two hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 11 min, while 11% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 8.9 km, while 21% travel for over 12 km in a single direction.\n\nElectricity for Hamburg and Northern Germany is largely provided by \"Vattenfall Europe\", formerly the state-owned \"Hamburgische Electricitäts-Werke\". Vattenfall Europe used to operate the Brunsbüttel Nuclear Power Plant and Krümmel Nuclear Power Plant, both taken out of service as part of the nuclear power phase-out. In addition, E.ON operates the Brokdorf Nuclear Power Plant near Hamburg.\nThere are also the coal-fired Wedel, Tiefstack and Moorburg CHP Plant, and the fuel-cell power plant in the HafenCity quarter. \"VERA Klärschlammverbrennung\" uses the biosolids of the Hamburg wastewater treatment plant; the \"Pumpspeicherwerk Geesthacht\" is a pump storage power plant and a solid waste combustion power station is \"Müllverwertung Borsigstraße\".\n\nHamburg is sometimes called Germany's capital of sport since no other city has more first-league teams and international sports events.\n\nHamburger SV is a football team playing in the 2. Bundesliga (as of 2018). The HSV was the oldest team of the Bundesliga, playing in the league since its beginning in 1963 until a change of results saw them relegated from the Bundesliga in 2018. HSV is a six-time German champion, a three-time German cup winner and triumphed in the European Cup in 1983, and has played in the group stages of the Champions League twice: in 2000–01 and in 2006–07. They play at the Volksparkstadion (average attendance in the 12–13 season was 52,916). In addition, FC St. Pauli was a second division football club that came in second place in the 2009–10 season and qualified to play alongside Hamburger SV in the first division for the first time since the 2001–02 season. St. Pauli's home games take place at the Millerntor-Stadion.\n\nThe Hamburg Freezers represented Hamburg until 2016 in the DEL, the premier ice hockey league in Germany.\n\nHSV Handball represented Hamburg until 2016 in the German handball league. In 2007, HSV Handball won the European Cupwinners Cup. The Club won the league in the 2010–11 season and had an average attendance of 10.690 in the O2 World Hamburg the same year. The most recent success for the team was the EHF Champions League win in 2013. Since 2014, the club has suffered from economic problems and was almost not allowed the playing licence for the 2014–15 season. But due to economic support from the former club president/sponsor Andreas Rudolf the club was allowed the licence in the last minute. On 20 January 2016 however, their licence was removed due to violations following the continued economic struggles. In 2016–17, they were not allowed to play in the first or second league. The team lives on through their former second team (now their main team) in the third division (2016-2018) and in second division (since 2018).\n\nThe \"BCJ Hamburg\" played in the Basketball Bundesliga from 1999 to 2001. Since then, teams from Hamburg have attempted to return to Germany's elite league. The recently founded Hamburg Towers have already established themselves as one of the main teams in Germany's second division ProA and aim to take on the heritage of the BCJ Hamburg. The Towers play their home games at the \"Inselparkhalle\" in Wilhelmsburg.\n\nHamburg is the nation's field hockey capital and dominates the men's as well as the women's Bundesliga. Hamburg hosts many top teams such as Uhlenhorster Hockey Club, Harvesterhuder Hockey Club and Club An Der Alster.\n\nThe Hamburg Warriors are one of Germany's top lacrosse clubs. The club has grown immensely in the last several years and includes at least one youth team, three men's, and two women's teams. The team participates in the Deutsch Lacrosse Verein. The Hamburg Warriors are part of the Harvestehuder Tennis- und Hockey-Club e.V (HTHC).\n\nThere are also the Hamburg Dockers, an Australian rules football club. The FC St. Pauli team dominates women's rugby in Germany. Other first-league teams include VT Aurubis Hamburg (Volleyball), Hamburger Polo Club, and Hamburg Blue Devils (American Football). There are also several minority sports clubs, including four cricket clubs.\n\nThe Centre Court of the Tennis Am Rothenbaum venue, with a capacity of 13,200 people, is the largest in Germany.\n\nHamburg also hosts equestrian events at \"Reitstadion Klein Flottbek\" (Deutsches Derby in jumping and dressage) and \"Horner Rennbahn\" (Deutsches Derby flat racing). Besides Hamburg owns the famous harness racing track \"Trabrennbahn Bahrenfeld\". The Hamburg Marathon is the biggest marathon in Germany after Berlin's. In 2008 23,230 participants were registered. World Cup events in cycling, the UCI ProTour competition EuroEyes Cyclassics, and the triathlon ITU World Cup event \"Hamburg City Man\" are also held in here.\n\nVolksparkstadion was used as a site for the 2006 World Cup. In 2010 UEFA held the final of the UEFA Europa League in the arena.\n\nHamburg made a bid for the 2024 Olympic Games, but 51.7 percent of those city residents participating in a referendum in November 2015 voted against continuing Hamburg's bid to host the games. Meanwhile, Hamburg's partner city Kiel voted in favour of hosting the event, with almost 66 percent of all participants supporting the bid. Opponents of the bid had argued that hosting the 33rd Olympic Games would cost the city too much in public funds.\n\nThe school system is managed by the Ministry of Schools and Vocational Training (\"Behörde für Schule und Berufsbildung\"). The system had approximately 191,148 students in 221 primary schools and 188 secondary schools in 2016. There are 32 public libraries in Hamburg.\n\nNineteen universities are located in Hamburg, with about 100,589 university students in total, including 9,000 resident students. Six universities are public, including the largest, the University of Hamburg (Universität Hamburg) with the University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, the University of Music and Theatre, the Hamburg University of Applied Sciences, the HafenCity University Hamburg and the Hamburg University of Technology. Seven universities are private, like the Bucerius Law School and the Hamburg School of Business Administration. The city has also smaller private colleges and universities, including many religious and special-purpose institutions, such as the Helmut Schmidt University (formerly the University of the Federal Armed Forces Hamburg).\nHamburg is home to one of the oldest international schools in Germany, the International School of Hamburg.\n\nHamburg has nine twin towns and sister cities around the world. Dar es Salaam, Tanzania became its newest sister city in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50463790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50463790", "title": "Holy Trinity Column, Malá Strana", "text": "Holy Trinity Column, Malá Strana\n\nThe Holy Trinity Column is installed in Malá Strana, Prague, Czech Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "8096738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8096738", "title": "Ionics EMS", "text": "Ionics EMS\n\nIonics EMS, Inc. Ionics is a full-service Electronics Manufacturing Services provider with a full spectrum of Manufacturing know how supported by in-house Fabrication of Materials, Engineering Design, Original Design Management Development, Supply Chain Management and Corporate Investments; Schematic Design, PCB Layout, Firmware Integration, New Product Introduction, Industrial Engineering capabilities.\n\nIonics is publicly listed in the Philippine Stock Exchange having 8 new facilities. Ionics is equipped with the latest high speed SMT equipment and features Smart Factory Solutions for mid and high volume assembly. With over 4 decades of experience in EMS,it is considered the oldest and most experienced electronics manufacturing services provider in the Philippines joined by its NPI house in Santa Clara, California.Ionics has worked with a range of world-class Original Equipment Manufacturers from different industries such as Telecommunication, Industrial, Automotive, Medical, Consumer Electronics, Computer and Computer Peripherals. \n\nThe only Filipino firm listed on the Philippine and Singapore Stock Exchanges\n\nIn September 2009, Ionics entered into a strategic IP licensing agreement with Norwegian fingerprint biometrics company IDEX ASA. The agreement provides Ionics the rights to manufacturing and sales of fingerprint sensor products based on IDEX’s patented SmartFinger technology.\n\nIn December 2015, a UNIT of electronics manufacturer Ionics Inc. has teamed up with global technology giant IBM to develop high-tech products that ride on the Internet of things (IoT) using cloud, mobile and big data analytics. Ionics-EMS will work with IBM to build a platform for the development of cloud-based apps for clients on Bluemix via the IBM Internet of Things Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "105259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105259", "title": "Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS", "text": "Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS\n\nThe Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS) is the main advocate for accelerated, comprehensive and coordinated global action on the HIV/AIDS pandemic.\n\nThe mission of UNAIDS is to lead, strengthen and support an expanded response to HIV and AIDS that includes preventing transmission of HIV, providing care and support to those already living with the virus, reducing the vulnerability of individuals and communities to HIV and alleviating the impact of the epidemic. UNAIDS seeks to prevent the HIV/AIDS epidemic from becoming a severe pandemic.\n\nUNAIDS has five goals:\n\nUNAIDS is headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, where it shares some site facilities with the World Health Organization. It is a member of the United Nations Development Group. Its first executive director was Peter Piot; Michel Sidibé currently leads UNAIDS. The agency promotes the GIPA principle (greater involvement of people living with HIV) formulated in 1994, and endorsed by the United Nations in 2001 and 2006.\n\n\nThe Cosponsors and the UNAIDS Secretariat comprise the Committee of Cosponsoring Organizations, which meets twice each year.\n\nThe aim of UNAIDS is to help mount and support an expanded response to HIV/AIDS, one that engages the efforts of many sectors and partners from government and civil society.\n\nEstablished by ECOSOC resolution 1994/24 on 26 July 1994, UNAIDS officially launched in January 1996. The organizations is guided by a Programme Coordinating Board with representatives of 22 governments from all geographic regions, the UNAIDS Cosponsors, and five representatives of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), including associations of people living with HIV/AIDS.\n\nPeter Piot was the first executive director of UNAIDS. He served from its inception in 1995 until 2008, when he departed to lead the Institute for Global Health at Imperial College London. On 1 January 2009, Michel Sidibé became the new executive director of UNAIDS. Jan Beagle is the Deputy Executive Director of Management and Governance, and Luiz Loures is the Deputy Executive Director of Programme. \n\nUNAIDS has eleven global Goodwill Ambassadors who help strengthen awareness of the organisation's work. They are: Myung-Bo Hong, Michael Ballack, Toumani Diabaté, Crown Princess Mette-Marit of Norway, Princess Stephanie of Monaco, Annie Lennox, Naomi Watts, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, David Luiz, Vera Brezhneva, Victoria Beckham and Pia Wurtzbach.\n\nThe United Nations Declaration Commitment on HIV/AIDS provides the guiding framework for UNAIDS action. Promoting partnerships among various stakeholders is reflected within the leadership section of the Declaration of Commitment. In particular, it calls for complementation of government efforts by the full and active participation of civil society, the business community and the private sector through:\n\n\nUNAIDS works to promote partnerships among and between this diverse and broad range of non-state entities. This calls for increases in both the number of new actors, as well as in innovative ways of working, to facilitate increased capacity of non-state entities to respond effectively to the epidemic at all levels.\n\nWith the momentum generated by the UN Special Session on HIV/AIDS, the main challenges are to:\n\n\nUNAIDS has collaborated with the Roman Catholic Church, especially Caritas Internationalis, in the fight against AIDS, something which materialized in a December 2005 message by Pope Benedict XVI. However, it indicated in a 2009 communiqué that it did not agree with the Pope's statement that condoms were unhelpful in AIDS prevention, instead calling them \"essential\".\n\nIn engaging non-state entities in an expanded response to the epidemic, the UNAIDS Secretariat:\n\n\nAs the main advocate for global action on HIV/AIDS, UNAIDS leads, strengthens and supports an expanded response aimed at preventing the transmission of HIV, providing care and support, reducing the vulnerability of individuals and communities to HIV/AIDS, and alleviating the impact of the epidemic. To fulfil this mandate, UNAIDS is supported by voluntary contributions from governments, foundations, corporations, private groups (for example, students, universities, sporting clubs, etc.) and individuals.\n\nIn 2003, more than US$118.5 million was received from 30 governments, philanthropic organizations, individuals from around the world and others. The largest donors were the Netherlands followed by Norway, the United States, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Japan. In 2004, 35 governments contributed to UNAIDS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8991467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8991467", "title": "Josetxo Grieta", "text": "Josetxo Grieta\n\nJosetxo Grieta is a noise rock band formed in Bilbao in 2006. The members are Josetxo Anitua from the band Cancer Moon, Iñigo Eguillor from Gringo, and Mattin from Billy Bao, Deflag Haemorrhage/Haien Kontra, Sakada, and NMM. Josetxo Grieta publishes their music under the no-licence of Anti-copyright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51684836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51684836", "title": "Kalmora", "text": "Kalmora\n\nKalmora, or The Paternal Right of the Americans () – Polish opera (melodrama) in 2 acts by Karol Kurpiński. Libretto was written by Kazimierz Brodziński. Its first performance took place on 10 March 1820.\n\nComplete score of the overture was published by Breitkopf & Härtel in Leipzig in 1825 or 1826 as Kurpiński's Opus 14. Complete score of the whole opera (or at least some parts) is located in the library of Warszawskie Towarzystwo Muzyczne im. Stanisława Moniuszki.\n\n"}
{"id": "57579754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57579754", "title": "Krymskyi Institute of Eastern Studies", "text": "Krymskyi Institute of Eastern Studies\n\nKrymskyi Institute of Oriental Studies () is a research institute in Ukraine that is part of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine department of history, philosophy and law and studies languages, histories, philosophies, religions, and cultures of peoples of Asia, Near, Middle and Far East, Northern Africa, and ethnicities of oriental origin that have existed or live on territory of Ukraine. The institute is located in Kiev.\n\nIt is named after Ukrainian orientalist Ahatanhel Krymskyi.\n\n\nBeside the Institute of History of Ukraine, the building also houses two other research institutes of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Shevchenko Institute of Literature and the Potebnya Institute of Linguistics.\n\nDuring the events of Euromaidan in winter of 2014, near the building were erected the Hrushevsky Street barricades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4961200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4961200", "title": "Kyrgyzstan Federation of Trade Unions", "text": "Kyrgyzstan Federation of Trade Unions\n\nThe Kyrgyzstan Federation of Trade Unions (KFTU), also known as the \"Federation of Trade Unions of Kyrgyzstan (FTUK)\" is the national trade union center of Kyrgyzstan. Most trade unions in the country are affiliated to the KFTU.\n\nThe KFTU is affiliated with the General Confederation of Trade Unions.\n"}
{"id": "4056357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4056357", "title": "List of newspapers in Andorra", "text": "List of newspapers in Andorra\n\nBelow is a list of newspapers published in Andorra. All newspapers in Andorra are written in the Catalan language \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7792535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7792535", "title": "List of sovereign states and dependent territories in the Americas", "text": "List of sovereign states and dependent territories in the Americas\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of sovereign states and dependent territories in the Americas. The Americas (also known as Pan-America, America or the New World) are the landmasses of North America and South America, collectively sometimes considered a single continent. The Americas are almost entirely located in the Western Hemisphere, with some of the north-west islands of Alaska entering the Eastern Hemisphere. The majority of islands lying in the Atlantic between the Americas and Afro-Eurasia, such as Iceland, are not normally associated with the Americas and are therefore excluded from this list.\n\nThe following is a list of sovereign states in the Americas. All 35 are members of the United Nations and the Organization of American States.\n\nThe 25 territories on this list are not sovereign states. This includes dependent territories of Pan-American countries listed above, or are territories that are either part of or subject to a European country.\n\n"}
{"id": "28332568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28332568", "title": "Lovagias ügy", "text": "Lovagias ügy\n\nLovagias ügy (Hungarian for An Affair of Honor) is a Hungarian play, written by Sándor Hunyady. It was first produced in 1935. It is considered to be one of Hunyady's great dramas and was soon adapted for film.\n\nSince its premiere, the work has been featured several times on Hungarian stage and abroad. In 1937, it played in Milan and Rome, Italy. Postwar performances took place in 1964, 1993, and 1996. More recently, \"Lovagias ügy\" was presented at Budapest's Karinthy Theater in 2012. \n"}
{"id": "3665852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3665852", "title": "Manifest Party of the People", "text": "Manifest Party of the People\n\nThe Manifest Party of the People (, PMP) is a political party in Guinea-Bissau.\n\nThe PMP was established in 2003 by Faustino Imbali. The party received 0.8% of the vote in the 2004 parliamentary elections, failing to win a seat in the National People's Assembly. Imbali was the party's candidate for the 2005 presidential elections, but received just 0.52% of the vote, finishing tenth in a field of 13 candidates.\n\nThe party did not contest elections in 2008, 2009 or 2012, but returned to active politics when it ran in the 2014 parliamentary elections. It received 0.7% of the vote and failed to win a seat.\n"}
{"id": "17971449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17971449", "title": "Member states of NATO", "text": "Member states of NATO\n\nNATO (the North Atlantic Treaty Organization) is an international alliance that consists of 29 member states from North America and Europe. It was established at the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty on 4 April 1949. Article Five of the treaty states that if an armed attack occurs against one of the member states, it should be considered an attack against all members, and other members shall assist the attacked member, with armed forces if necessary.\n\nOf the 29 member countries, two are located in North America (Canada and the United States) and 27 are European countries while Turkey is in Eurasia. All members have militaries, except for Iceland which does not have a typical army (but does, however, have a coast guard and a small unit of civilian specialists for NATO operations). Three of NATO's members are nuclear weapons states: France, the United Kingdom, and the United States. NATO has 12 original founding member nation states, and from 18 February 1952 to 6 May 1955, it added three more member nations, and a fourth on 30 May 1982. After the end of the Cold War, NATO added 13 more member nations (10 former Warsaw Pact members and three former Yugoslav republics) from 12 March 1999 to 5 June 2017.\n\nNATO has added new members seven times since its founding in 1949, and since 2017 NATO has had 29 members. Twelve countries were part of the founding of NATO: Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, the United Kingdom, and the United States. In 1952, Greece and Turkey became members of the Alliance, joined later by West Germany (in 1955) and Spain (in 1982). In 1990, with the reunification of Germany, NATO grew to include the former country of East Germany. Between 1994 and 1997, wider forums for regional cooperation between NATO and its neighbors were set up, including the Partnership for Peace, the Mediterranean Dialogue initiative and the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council. In 1997, three former Warsaw Pact countries, Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Poland, were invited to join NATO. After this fourth enlargement in 1999, the Vilnius group of the Baltics and seven East European countries formed in May 2000 to cooperate and lobby for further NATO membership. Seven of these countries joined in the fifth enlargement in 2004. The Adriatic States Albania and Croatia joined in the sixth enlargement in 2009, Montenegro in 2017.\n\nUnited States President Donald Trump expressed interest in withdrawing from the organization during his 2016 presidential campaign, and only recently stated the United States would protect allies in the event that Article V is invoked.\n\n Iceland has no armed forces. 2015 data.\n\nThe United States has a larger defense expenditure than all other members combined. Criticism of the organization by then newly elected US President Donald Trump caused various reactions from American and European political figures, ranging from ridicule to panic. Pew Research Center's 2016 survey among its member states showed that while most countries viewed NATO positively, most NATO members preferred keeping their military spending the same. The response to whether their country should militarily aid another NATO country if it were to get into a serious military conflict with Russia was also mixed. Only in the US and Canada did more than 50% of the people answer that they should.\n\nPopulation data from \"CIA World Factbook\"<br>GDP data from IMF<br>Expenditure data (except Iceland) from SIPRI Military Expenditure Database, Icelandic data (2013) from Statistics Iceland<br>Military personnel data from NATO Iceland has no armed forces. 2015 data.\n"}
{"id": "41908540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41908540", "title": "Mouna", "text": "Mouna\n\nThe mouna (also known as mona) is the name of a brioche shaped as a dome or crown, traditional in Pied-Noir and Algerian cuisine, particularly in Oran (in Algeria), where is traditionally consumed during the Easter celebrations.\n"}
{"id": "16278803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278803", "title": "Outline of Guinea", "text": "Outline of Guinea\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Guinea:\n\nGuinea – country located in West Africa, that was formerly known as French Guinea. Guinea's territory has a curved shape, with its base at the Atlantic Ocean, inland to the east, and turning south. The base borders Guinea-Bissau and Senegal to the north, and Mali to the north and north-east; the inland part borders Côte d'Ivoire to the south-east, Liberia to the south, and Sierra Leone to the west of the southern tip. Its water sources include the Niger, Senegal, and Gambia rivers. Guinea is sometimes called Guinea-Conakry (Conakry being its capital) to differentiate it from the neighboring Guinea-Bissau (whose capital is Bissau).\n\n\nGeography of Guinea\n\n\n\n\n\nEcoregions in Guinea – the following ecoregions lie partially within Guinea:\n\nAdministrative divisions of Guinea\n\nRegions of Guinea\n\nPrefectures of Guinea\n\n\nDemographics of Guinea\n\nPolitics of Guinea\n\nGovernment of Guinea\n\n\n\n\nForeign relations of Guinea\n\nThe Republic of Guinea is a member of:\n\nLaw of Guinea\n\nMilitary of Guinea\n\nLocal government in Guinea\n\nHistory of Guinea\n\n\n\nCulture of Guinea\n\n\nSports in Guinea\n\nEconomy of Guinea\n\nEducation in Guinea\n\nHealth in Guinea\n\nGuinea\n\n"}
{"id": "28381520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28381520", "title": "Pan Theodor Mundstock", "text": "Pan Theodor Mundstock\n\nPan Theodor Mundstock (\"Mr. Theodore Mundstock\") is the debut novel by Czech author Ladislav Fuks, first published in 1963. The English translation by Iris Urwin was published by Orion Press, New York, in 1968.\n\nIt tells the story of a Jew in Prague in 1942, during the German occupation of Czechoslovakia, who is waiting to be deported to the concentration camps but trying to maintain as normal an existence as possible. When the occupying Nazis force him to leave the rope shop he owns, Mundstock's psyche starts to crack. Seeing the camps as inevitable, he later starts practising for life in them.\n\nIn a review for \"The New York Times\", Richard M. Elman described the book as \"brilliant\" and said of it that \"Ladislav Fuks's novel is not just another pious Holocaust book; it is acute, unsentimental, and unsparing, a work of intricate but compassionate narrative art, as if Kafka's K had literally confronted the crematoria.\" He highlighted how Mundstock's attempts to keep up a normal life \"makes the trap he is in all the more absolute and terrifying\" and praised the book both for the quality of its translation and the way \"its artfulness, though always functional, is never permitted to victimize the humanity of Mundstock\".\n\nWebster Schott in \"Life\" magazine called it \"one of literature's near miracles\" and \"excruciatingly poignant, clear and hard as diamonds in its English translation by Iris Urwin\", saying that it \"catapults Ladislav Fuks, Mundstock's 44-year-old Czech creator, into the first rank of contemporary literary moralists.\"\n\n\"Pan Theodor Mundstock\" was adapted for the stage as \"Mr. M\" in 2011 by Vít Hořejš. It was performed by The Czechoslovak-American Marionette Theatre at Theater for the New City and JCC Manhattan. The name is an allusion to K in Franz Kafka's unfinished novel The Castle.\n\nIn 2016, a Czech language stage adaptation written by Miloš Horanský and starring as Mundstock was performed at the Veletržní Palác, part of the National Gallery in Prague. The adaptation was praised for its performances but criticised by some critics for straying from the novel in its characterisation.\n\n"}
{"id": "25969218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25969218", "title": "Pankaj Ghemawat", "text": "Pankaj Ghemawat\n\nPankaj Ghemawat (born September 30, 1959) is an Indian-American economist, professor, global strategist, speaker and author known for his work in the study of globalization. He created the DHL Global Connectedness Index and the CAGE Distance Framework.\n\nHe is the Global Professor of Management and Strategy and Director of the Center for the Globalization of Education and Management at the Stern School of Business at New York University, and the Anselmo Rubiralta Professor of Global Strategy at IESE Business School. Ghemawat previously served on the faculty of Harvard Business School, where he was the youngest person ever appointed a full professorship.\n\nBorn in India, Ghemawat spent parts of his childhood in India and in Indiana, where the family lived while his father pursued a Ph.D at Purdue University.\n\nGhemawat received his bachelor's degree in Applied Mathematics and his Ph.D. in business economics from Harvard University. Entering Harvard College at the age of 16, he was accepted to Harvard Business School's Ph.D. in Business Economics program at 19, graduating three years later.\n\nAfter a two-year stint at McKinsey & Company in London, he spent 25 years on the full-time faculty at Harvard Business School. Since 2006, Ghemawat has been the Anselmo Rubiralta Professor of Global Strategy at IESE Business School in Barcelona. In 2013, he was appointed as Distinguished Visiting Professor of Global Management at Stern School of Business, New York University.\n\nGhemawat has devoted much of his career to studying globalization and its effects on national economies. In 2011 he introduced the DHL Global Connectedness Index, which emphasizes analysis of hard data to measure the global connectedness of countries around the world.\n\nKey ideas of his work include:\nMuch of Ghemawat's work serves as a counterpoint to journalist Thomas Friedman’s contention in his book The World is Flat that globalization is a fast-growing and dominant force in the 21st century economy. In 2009 Ghemawat published the article \"Why the World Isn’t Flat\" in Foreign Policy. In 2012 Ghemawat gave a TED talk entitled \"Actually, the World Isn’t Flat\". In these and other works, Ghemawat cited the measures of global connectedness compiled in his research to show that globalization is less widespread than generally thought. He has revived the term “globaloney\", coined in the 1940s by Clare Boothe Luce, to refer to these misconceptions.\n\nBeginning in 2016 Ghemawat has turned his attention to the effects of isolationist and nationalist movements such as the United Kingdom's Brexit vote and the policies of President Donald Trump on trade, globalization, and economic growth.\n\nPankaj Ghemawat's books include \"Commitment\" (Free Press, 1991), \"Games Businesses Play\" (MIT Press, 1998), \"Strategy and the Business Landscape\" (Pearson Prentice Hall, 3rd edition, 2009), the award-winning \"Redefining Global Strategy\" (Harvard Business School Press, 2007), and \"World 3.0 Global Prosperity And How To Achieve It\" (Harvard Business Press, 2011), which continues to receive international acclaim.\n\n2008\n\n2006–2007\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44041800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44041800", "title": "Piggs Peak Airfield", "text": "Piggs Peak Airfield\n\nPiggs Peak Airfield is an airport serving Piggs Peak in the Hhohho Region of Swaziland. The airport is at Ngonini, an agricultural village northeast of Piggs Peak.\n\nCaution: There is a power line that runs along the east side of the runway, and crosses the approach/departure path at the south end. The crossing cables are unmarked.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48305702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48305702", "title": "Polish Antarctic Expedition", "text": "Polish Antarctic Expedition\n\nThe Polish Antarctic Expedition to the A. B. Dobrowolski Polar Station was conducted by a team of doctors, geophysicists, and geomorphologists between 1978-1979. It was sponsored by the Polish Academy of Sciences. This was the third expedition organised by the Polish Academy of Sciences, and included establishing a geodetic network in the Bunger Oasis, setting up an astronomical reference point, magnetic observations, and photogrammetric surveys to make maps of the vicinity of the station.\n\nA geodetic network was established in the Bunger Oasis by Dr. A. Pachuta and Dr. J. Cisak, using theodolites Wild T2 and distancemeters Zeiss EOK, and consisted of 26 points.\n\n"}
{"id": "33955901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33955901", "title": "Projekttheater Vorarlberg", "text": "Projekttheater Vorarlberg\n\nProjekttheater Vorarlberg is a theatre in Austria.\n"}
{"id": "299550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299550", "title": "Regions of Chile", "text": "Regions of Chile\n\nChile is divided into 16 regions (in Spanish, \"regiones\"; singular \"región\"), which are the country's first-level administrative division. Each region is headed by an intendant (\"intendente)\", appointed by the President of Chile, and a directly-elected regional board (\"consejo regional\").\n\nThe regions are divided into provinces (the second-level administrative division), each headed by a governor (\"gobernador\") appointed by the President. There are 56 provinces in total. Provinces are divided into communes (the third and lowest level administrative division), which are governed by municipal councils.\n\nEach region is given a Roman numeral, followed by a name (e.g. \"IV Región de Coquimbo\", read as \"fourth region of Coquimbo\" in Spanish). When the regional structure was created, Roman numerals were assigned in ascending order from north to south, with the northernmost region designated as I (first) and the southernmost region as XII (twelfth). The Santiago Metropolitan Region, located in the center of the country and home to the country's capital Santiago, was excluded from this naming scheme and given instead the initials RM, standing for \"Región Metropolitana\" (\"Metropolitan Region\" in Spanish). With the creation of regions XIV and XVI in the south and XV in the north (XIII is not used) in 2007, the north-south Roman numeral order was broken.\n\nIn February 2018, the Strengthening of Regionalization Law (Law 21074) was enacted . Among other things, it removed the roman numerals from the designations.\n\nThe administrative divisions of Chile were created in 1974 and limited to 13 regions (this limitation was eliminated in 2005 via a constitutional reform). Previously, Chile was divided into 25 provinces, which were further divided into departments, and then into communes. The new territorial organization was implemented in phases with some initial \"pilot regions\" beginning to operate in 1974, extending the process on January 1, 1976 to the rest of the country. The Santiago Metropolitan Region began to operate in April 1980.\n\nIn December 2006, two new regions were created: the northern Arica and Parinacota Region, by taking out the two northernmost provinces from the Tarapacá Region; and Los Ríos Region in the south, encompassing the provinces of Valdivia, formerly part of the Los Lagos Region, and Ranco, formerly part of Valdivia. Both regions became operative in October 2007.\n\nIn August 2017, the Ñuble Region was created from what was then the Ñuble Province of the Biobío Region. The old province was divided into three new provinces: Diguillín, Punilla and Itata. The new region's capital is Chillán. It became operational in September 2018.\n\nChile does not utilise the number 13 (XIII) in numbering its regions, most of which increase in number from north to south.\n\nSince their creation, each region is headed by a intendant (intendente) appointed by the President of Chile, and a regional board (consejo regional). The intendants count with the direct collaboration of the SEREMI (Ministerial Regional secretary) in specific matters, such as public health, education, agriculture, among others. The SEREMI are appointed by the President. Thanks to the Strengthening of Regionalization Law, since the 2020 municipal elections each intendant will be elected at the same date along with the mayors and municipal councillors, using a two-round system. If no candidate obtains the minimum threshold 40% of the valid votes, a runoff election is held between the two candidates with the most votes, and the winner is elected by a simple majority. Also the law will change the name \"Intendant\" to \"Regional Governor\" (Gobernador regional). The President will appoint a Regional presidential delegate (delegado presidencial regional), who will represent the national government in the region.\n\nThe board was elected among the members of the municipal councils (consejo municipal) of each commune of the respective region. Since the 2013 election the regional board members (Consejero regional) are directly elected using an open list proportional representation, with seats allocated using the D'Hondt method. Each of the 54 provinces are headed by a governor (gobernador) appointed by the President. In 2020, the provincial governors will change their name to \"Provincial presidential delegate\"' (delegado presidencial provincial), still appointed by the President.\n\n"}
{"id": "17643622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17643622", "title": "Russian State Institute of Performing Arts", "text": "Russian State Institute of Performing Arts\n\nRussian State Institute of Performing Arts () is a theatre school in Saint Petersburg. Established in 1779, it is the oldest and largest institution of its kind in Russia.\n\nThe academy is the oldest and largest institution of its kind in Russia. The college has been reorganised and renamed many times. Its present name dates from 1993, while before that it was named Leningrad State Institute of Theatre, Music and Cinema.\n\nThe largest institution of its kind in Russia, the academy now has approximately 950 full-time students with 200 faculty in four departments — Drama Department, Puppetry Department, Set Design and Stage Technology Department, and the Theatre Studies Department.\n\nThe Academy Theatre gives public performances by students of the academy throughout the education process — from 10 to 16 different productions a year, amounting to between 150-180 public performances. The best performances are moved to leading theatres of Saint Petersburg, such as the Alexandrinsky Theatre, the Lensovet Theatre, etc.\n\nThis book, focusing on the course of study pursued today by aspiring actors in Russia and on the philosophy that informs this curriculum, draws on extensive observation during the academic year 2000-2001 of the actor training program of the St. Petersburg State Theatre Arts Academy and on interviews of a wide array of individuals (primarily faculty) in the Academy. The book is a good source of information on the Academy.\n"}
{"id": "12707789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12707789", "title": "The Life of Bakuvians and Their Movement Along the Velikokniaz Avenue", "text": "The Life of Bakuvians and Their Movement Along the Velikokniaz Avenue\n\nThe Life of Bakuvians and Their Movement Along the Velikokniaz Avenue () is a 1900 Azerbaijani film directed by Q. Matye. It was filmed on November 12, 1900 the very day Matye shot \"Bakuvians Walk in the City Park\". The film was released on November 19, 1900 in Baku. The film was shot on 35mm.\n"}
{"id": "29219482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29219482", "title": "The Light Thief", "text": "The Light Thief\n\nThe Light Thief (, \"Svet-Ake\") is a 2010 Kyrgyz drama film directed by Aktan Arym Kubat. The film was Kyrgyzstan's submission for Best Foreign Language Film for the 83rd Academy Awards, but did not make the final shortlist.\n\n\n“The Light Thief might be a simple story, but it's ultimately a complex film” –Montreal Gazette \n\n“European funds contributing to the production and with a burning subject such as energy control high on the world’s priority list, this is a surefire festival item, with definite chances for niche art house distribution.” –Screen Daily\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55521343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55521343", "title": "The Mud Soldier", "text": "The Mud Soldier\n\nThe Mud Soldier was an artwork by Damian and Killian Van Der Velden displayed in Trafalgar Square. It was commissioned to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Passchendaele.\n\nThe sculpture, depicting a First World War soldier seated on a bedroll, was constructed from sand and mud taken from Flanders Fields. Situated in the open air, it was intended to disintegrate over the five days that it was on show. The location was chosen due to the proximity of the homes of two servicemen who had received the Victoria Cross for their actions at Passchendaele.\n"}
{"id": "7916165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7916165", "title": "University Teachers for Human Rights", "text": "University Teachers for Human Rights\n\nThe University Teachers for Human Rights (Jaffna) or UTHR(J) was formed in 1988 at the University of Jaffna, Jaffna in Sri Lanka as part of the national organization University Teachers for Human Rights. Its public activities as a constituent part of university life came to a standstill following the assassination on September 21, 1989 of Rajini Thiranagama, a key founding member, by the rebel group Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. This has not been conclusively proven. \n\nDuring the course of 1990 the others who identified openly with the UTHR(J), such as its current head Prof. Rajan Hoole, were forced to leave Jaffna. \n\nIt functions as an organization upholding the founding spirit of the UTHR(J) with its original aims: to challenge the external and internal terror engulfing the Sri Lankan Tamil community as a whole through making the perpetrators accountable, and to create space for humanizing the social and political spheres relating to the life of the community.\n\nThe UTHR(J) is no longer functioning within the University of Jaffna. Its latest report on documenting human rights abuses in Sri Lanka, as seen from its website, was on January 2, 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2984128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2984128", "title": "User fee", "text": "User fee\n\nA user fee is a fee, tax, or impost payment paid to a facility owner or operator by a facility user as a necessary condition for using the facility.\n\nPeople pay user fees for the use of many public services and facilities. At the federal level in the United States, there is a charge for walking to the top of the Statue of Liberty, to drive into many national parks, or to use particular services of the Library of Congress.\n\nStates may charge tolls for driving on highways or impose a fee on those who camp in state parks. Communities usually have entrance fees for public swimming pools and meters for parking on local streets as well as perhaps even parking spaces at public beaches, dump stickers and postage stamps.\n\nIn international development, user fees refer to a system fee for basic health care, education, or other services implemented by a developing country to make up for the costs of these services.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund often recommends that nations start charging fees for these services in order to reduce their budget deficits. This position is more and more challenged by many people who claim that user fees hurt the poorest the most. Some even argue that they should be free at the point of use.\n\nThe alternative to funding facilities and services with user fees is to fund them with income taxes. Unlike user fees, income taxes are paid by everyone, including those who don't necessarily use or benefit from a specific facility or service. \n"}
{"id": "39013015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39013015", "title": "Woodford's Battery", "text": "Woodford's Battery\n\nWoodford's Battery was an artillery battery in the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar. It is located at Europa Flats between the Defensible Barracks and the \"Officer's Barracks\" and Eliott's Battery.\n\nThe battery was built before 1738 as a demi-bastion set into the old Spanish-era coastal wall, constructed by Charles V. It was originally called Five Gun Battery but its complement of guns was later expanded. It was equipped with four embrasures on the left flank, facing south-east towards Europa Point, and two on the right flank, facing north-west towards the nearby Hutment Battery. Further firing positions were provided a short distance further south by the three-gun Woodford's Left Flank battery, which together with the 1st Europa Point Right Flank battery enfiladed the ground in front of the Defensible Barracks. It was renamed after a governor of Gibraltar, Field Marshal Sir Alexander George Woodford, who served in that role between 1836–43. \n\nNine guns had been installed in the battery by 1859 and it continued to mount a variety of guns up to 1892. During World War II it was used to mount a defence electric light, which was removed in the late 20th century. \n"}
