{"id": "44099951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44099951", "title": "Abd Allah bin Tariq", "text": "Abd Allah bin Tariq\n\nAbd Allah bin Tariq was a companion of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. He was killed during the Expedition of Al Raji. In 625 some men requested that Muhammad send instructors to teach them Islam, but the men were bribed by the two tribes of Khuzaymah who wanted revenge for the assassination of Khalid bin Sufyan by Muhammad's followers and they killed the Muslim's After killing Asim ibn Thabit, Hudhayl wanted to sell his head.\n\nHowever, the Muslims refused to believe the promise of the polytheists and fought back. All the Muslims, except Zayd bin al-Dathinnah, Khubyab bin Adi and Abd Allah bin Tariq were killed. These three Muslims surrendered and were taken as prisoners to be sold in Mecca.\n\n"}
{"id": "5714112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5714112", "title": "Abdecalas", "text": "Abdecalas\n\nSaint Abdecalas (or Abdelas) was a Persian priest of advanced age who, together with another priest, Saint Ananias, and about a hundred other Christians, was killed under the Persian ruler Shapur II on Good Friday, 345. One of these others was also named Abdecalas.\n\nSt. Simeon, bishop of Seleucia, had been arrested by order of Sapor, king of Persia. He refused to adore the sun and was thrown in a narrow prison and remained there for a long time together with other 100 Christians, such as bishops, priests and clerks. The following day, which was a Good Friday, all his companions were strangled in his presence and he was beheaded. Abdecalas and Ananias, his priests, were martyred with him. They were the persons of distinguished merits.\n\nThe Greek historian Sozomen estimates the number of Christians martyred during the forty-year reign of Shapur as close to 16,000. The feast day for Saint Abdecalas is 21 April.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279178", "title": "Absurd (band)", "text": "Absurd (band)\n\nAbsurd is a German black metal band, and has been classified as a \"right-wing extremist\" group by the Thuringian Landesbehörde für Verfassungsschutz.\n\nThe band was founded in Sondershausen by Hendrik Möbus (also known as - on the circuit and later on official Compact Cassette and later CD liner notes - as Randall Flagg / Jarl Flagg Nidhögg / JFN) and Sebastian Schauseil in 1992, with a third member, Andreas Kirchner, joining at a later stage.\n\nTheir lyrics concern nationalistic, pagan (Hendrik Möbus is the founder of the Deutsche Heidnische Front), pro-heathen revivalist Germanic, and anti-Judeo-Christian themes.\n\nThe band achieved infamy because its original members (now no longer in the band since 1999) murdered the 15-year-old Sandro Beyer in 1993. The canonical motive is that Beyer was privy to an illicit relationship of Schauseil's with a married woman, and had been spreading rumours about this and other activities of the band. On 29 April in Sondershausen, the then-17-year-old band members Möbus, Schauseil, and Kirchner enticed Beyer to a meeting, and strangled him there with an electrical cord. Kirchner, in a now infamous quotation, was reported as saying: “Oh shit—now I’ve completely ruined my life.” Schauseil claimed to have heard a voice in his head saying \"“Kuster Maier”\", which made no sense but was interpreted by him as \"“töte Beyer”\" (‘kill Beyer’).\n\nIn prison, Möbus (b. January 20, 1976) was able to carry on with the band under the temporary name \"In Ketten\" (German for \"In Chains\"). After the murder, this became a cult band with Neo-Nazi groups. A live album was recorded in prison and had since been released on vinyl. The tape \"Thuringian Pagan Madness\" shows on its cover the grave of the murdered Sandro Beyer, and inside says: \"The cover shows the grave of Sandro B. murdered by horde ABSURD on 29.04.93 AB\".\n\nThe band members were released on parole in 1998, because they had been under eighteen when they had committed their crime. Shortly after release, Möbus violated the terms of his parole when at a concert he performed the Hitler salute, which is illegal in Germany. Hendrik and his brother Ronald \"Wolf\" Möbus also posed together in a series of photographs at Auschwitz death camp, holding up nazi banners inside a gas chamber and outside barracks. His parole was consequently revoked. He managed to flee to the United States, where he met William Luther Pierce, but was captured there. During his stay in America he also got in a conflict about money with some of his contacts who he stayed with for some time, one of them being the then neo-Nazi pagan occultist Nathan Pett, who later left the far right scene, and was apparently beaten with a hammer and threatened with a pistol by two persons. At first this was just a rumour but Möbus later admitted in an interview for a neonazi site that the incident had taken place. He was arrested by U.S. marshals. In 2001, after his request for asylum was denied, he was sent back to prison for the remaining three years for murder. For mocking his victim and for the Hitler salute he was sentenced to a further twenty-six months. On 15 May 2003 he was again sentenced to four years in prison. Möbus is today free and runs his own music label, called Darker Than Black, which distributes NSBM albums and merchandise on an organized scale since 2007. Antifascist Action in Germany has organized at least one demonstration in late 2014 to protest against the racist music shop Möbus owns together with one other person. Two cars belonging to Möbus were damaged in an arson which the Antifascist Action Germany claimed responsibility for, during a campaign in Berlin where there was also posters with Möbus face and personal information on put up, and graffiti with messages against him and the label. When released from the last prison sentence Möbus appeared on stage during a neonazi live gig, but did not play anything.\n\nSchauseil is still involved with the underground metal scene; he performed between 1999 and 2004 with the folk-influenced nationalist band Halgadom, the black metal project Wolfsmond (also featuring bassplayer Unhold, who currently plays drums in Absurd), and the neofolk band In Acht und Bann. He has distanced himself from National Socialism and politics in general, as evidenced by the current direction of Wolfsmond and as stated in an interview he conducted with \"Vampire Magazine\".\n\nIn 2002 Pantheon (USA) released a tribute album to Möbus, called \"Jarl die Freiheit\" (‘Jarl of Freedom’).\n\nThe band Absurd has continued in existence since 1999, going through many changes of personnel, and losing all of its original members. The leader is Wolf, Hendrik's brother, with Sebastian Schauseil performing the occasional clean vocal part on releases such as \"Asgardsrei\" (1999), \"Werwolfthron\" (2001), and \"Totenlieder\" (2002).\n\nThe demos and the first album “Facta Loquuntur” have strong Oi! and Rock Against Communism (RAC) influences. Musical idols were bands like Mercyful Fate/King Diamond, Manowar, Danzig and especially Der Fluch, a band covered by Absurd on both \"Der fünfzehnjährige Krieg\" and the split release \"Weltenfeind\", whereas the Scandinavian bands were no significant musical or lyrical influence. On the other hand, the band called itself a black metal band from the very beginning; in an interview with the pupil magazine of his school, Hendrik Möbus said Absurd would play the hardest, rawest and most ingenious black metal in Germany Michael Moynihan and Didrik Søderlind classified the band’s early recordings “more akin to ’60s garage punk than some of the […] Black Metal of their contemporaries”, and according to Christian Dornbusch and Hans-Peter Killguss, the second demo \"Death from the Forest\" had no similarities to black metal neither of the first nor the second wave, but was rather a mixture of primitive hard rock and punk rock elements. Due to its musical dilettantism, the band was not taken seriously by black metallers for a long time. In an ad in \"Sub Line\" magazine, the same demo was praised as “unholy, hard guitar rock, wild and boisterous; for all the dark souls out there” (“unheiliger, harter Gitarrenrock, wild und ungestüm; für all die schwarzen Seelen dort draußen”). The \"Mansion of Metal\" site classified it as “essentially crappy punk rock/RAC” and claims the “Thuringian Pagan Madness” demo to have black metal influences.\n\nHendrik Möbus called the \"Asgardsrei\" EP the band’s first holistic piece of work, adjusted in concept and layout as well, and the band’s step away from its former musical dilettantism; however,he still described some of it as dilettante, and Ronald Möbus criticised the final mixing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14179835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14179835", "title": "Activation function", "text": "Activation function\n\nIn artificial neural networks, the activation function of a node defines the output of that node, or \"neuron,\" given an input or set of inputs. This output is then used as input for the next node and so on until a desired solution to the original problem is found.\n\nIt maps the resulting values into the desired range such as between 0 to 1 or -1 to 1 etc. (depending upon the choice of activation function). For example, the use of the logistic activation function would map all inputs in the real number domain into the range of 0 to 1.\n\nA standard computer chip circuit can be seen as a digital network of activation functions that can be \"ON\" (1) or \"OFF\" (0), depending on input. This is similar to the behavior of the linear perceptron in neural networks. However, only \"nonlinear\" activation functions allow such networks to compute nontrivial problems using only a small number of nodes. In artificial neural networks, this function is also called the transfer function.\n\nIn biologically inspired neural networks, the activation function is usually an abstraction representing the rate of action potential firing in the cell. In its simplest form, this function is binary—that is, either the neuron is firing or not. The function looks like formula_1, where formula_2 is the Heaviside step function. In this case many neurons must be used in computation beyond linear separation of categories.\n\nA line of positive slope may be used to reflect the increase in firing rate that occurs as input current increases. Such a function would be of the form formula_3, where formula_4 is the slope. This activation function is linear, and therefore has the same problems as the binary function. In addition, networks constructed using this model have unstable convergence because neuron inputs along favored paths tend to increase without bound, as this function is not normalizable.\n\nAll problems mentioned above can be handled by using a normalizable sigmoid activation function. One realistic model stays at zero until input current is received, at which point the firing frequency increases quickly at first, but gradually approaches an asymptote at 100% firing rate. Mathematically, this looks like formula_5, where the hyperbolic tangent function can be replaced by any sigmoid function. This behavior is realistically reflected in the neuron, as neurons cannot physically fire faster than a certain rate. This model runs into problems, however, in computational networks as it is not differentiable, a requirement to calculate backpropagation.\n\nThe final model, then, that is used in multilayer perceptrons is a sigmoidal activation function in the form of a hyperbolic tangent. Two forms of this function are commonly used: formula_6 whose range is normalized from -1 to 1, and formula_7 is vertically translated to normalize from 0 to 1. The latter model is often considered more biologically realistic, but it runs into theoretical and experimental difficulties with certain types of computational problems.\n\nA special class of activation functions known as radial basis functions (RBFs) are used in RBF networks, which are extremely efficient as universal function approximators. These activation functions can take many forms, but they are usually found as one of three functions:\nwhere formula_11 is the vector representing the function \"center\" and formula_12 and formula_13 are parameters affecting the spread of the radius.\n\nSupport vector machines (SVMs) can effectively utilize a class of activation functions that includes both sigmoids and RBFs. In this case, the input is transformed to reflect a decision boundary hyperplane based on a few training inputs called \"support vectors\" formula_14. The activation function for the hidden layer of these machines is referred to as the \"inner product kernel\", formula_15. The support vectors are represented as the centers in RBFs with the kernel equal to the activation function, but they take a unique form in the perceptron as \nwhere formula_17 and formula_18 must satisfy certain conditions for convergence. These machines can also accept arbitrary-order polynomial activation functions where\nActivation function having types:\n\nSome desirable properties in an activation function include:\n\n\nThe following table compares the properties of several activation functions that are functions of one fold from the previous layer or layers:\n</math>\n\nwith formula_59 and formula_60\n\nThe following table lists activation functions that are not functions of a single fold from the previous layer or layers:\n\n"}
{"id": "549681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=549681", "title": "Alois Hitler", "text": "Alois Hitler\n\nAlois J. Hitler Sr. (born Alois Johann Schicklgruber; 7 June 1837 – 3 January 1903) was an Austrian civil servant and the father of German dictator and leader of the Nazi Party, Adolf Hitler.\n\nAlois Hitler was born illegitimately, and his paternity was never established. This led to claims that his wife Klara (Adolf’s mother) may have been his cousin. It also meant that Adolf could not prove pure Aryan blood. When Alois was promoted in the Customs service, he applied to be legitimised in the name of his stepfather Hiedler, which was entered in the register as ‘Hitler’, for unknown reasons. Alois had a poor relationship with Adolf, who rebelled against him.\n\nAlois Hitler was born Alois Schicklgruber in the hamlet of Strones, parish of Döllersheim, in the Waldviertel, an area in northwest Lower Austria, to a 42-year-old unmarried peasant, Maria Schicklgruber, whose family had lived in the area for generations. At his baptism in Döllersheim, the space for his father's name on the baptismal certificate was left blank and the priest wrote \"illegitimate\". His mother cared for Alois in a house she shared with her elderly father, Johannes Schicklgruber.\n\nSometime later, Johann Georg Hiedler moved in with the Schicklgrubers; he married Maria when Alois was five. By the age of 10, Alois had been sent to live with Hiedler's brother, Johann Nepomuk Hiedler, who owned a farm in the nearby village of Spital (part of Weitra). Alois attended elementary school, and took lessons in shoemaking from a local cobbler. At the age of 13 he left the farm in Spital and went to Vienna as an apprentice cobbler, working there for about five years. In response to a recruitment drive by the Austrian government offering employment in the civil service to people from rural areas, Alois joined the frontier guards (customs service) of the Austrian Finance Ministry in 1855 at the age of 18.\n\nHistorians have proposed various candidates as Alois's biological father: Johann Georg Hiedler, his brother Johann Nepomuk Hiedler (or \"Hüttler\"), and Leopold Frankenberger (whose existence has never been documented). During his lifetime, Johann Georg Hiedler was the stepfather and posthumously legally declared birth father of Alois. According to historian Frank McDonough, the most plausible theory is that Johann Georg Hiedler was the real father of Alois. An explanation for Alois being sent to live on his uncle's farm as a child is that Hiedler and Maria were simply too poor to raise him, or could not raise him as well as his uncle, or perhaps Maria's health was in decline.\n\nWerner Maser suggests that Alois's father was Johann Nepomuk, Georg's brother and Hitler's step-uncle, who raised Alois through adolescence and later willed him a considerable portion of his life savings, but never admitted publicly to being his real father. According to Maser, Nepomuk was a married farmer who had an affair and then arranged to have his single brother Hiedler marry Alois's mother Maria to provide a cover for Nepomuk's desire to assist and care for Alois without upsetting his wife. This assumes Hiedler was willing to marry Maria in this situation, and Adolf Hitler biographer Joachim Fest thinks this is too contrived and unlikely to be true.\n\nAlois's son Adolf, following the rumours that his paternal grandfather was a Jew, in 1931 ordered the SS (\"Schutzstaffel\") to investigate the alleged rumours regarding his ancestry; they found no evidence of any Jewish ancestors. After the Nuremberg Laws came into effect within the Third Reich, Hitler then ordered the genealogist Rudolf Koppensteiner to publish a large illustrated genealogical tree showing his ancestry; this was published in the book \"Die Ahnentafel des Fuehrers\" (\"The Pedigree of the Leader\") in 1937, which concluded that Hitler's family were all Austrian Germans with no Jewish ancestry and that Hitler had an unblemished \"Aryan\" pedigree. As Alois himself legitimised Johann Georg Hiedler as his father and the priest changed this on his birth certificate in 1876, this was considered certified proof for Hitler's ancestry; thus Hitler was considered a \"pure\" Aryan.\n\nAlthough Johann Georg Hiedler was considered the officially accepted paternal grandfather of Adolf Hitler by the Third Reich, the question of who his grandfather was has caused much speculation and has remained unknown. German historian Joachim Fest wrote that:\n\nAfter the war, Hitler's former lawyer, Hans Frank, claimed that Hitler told him in 1930 that one of his relatives was trying to blackmail him by threatening to reveal his alleged Jewish ancestry. Hitler asked Frank to find out the facts. Frank says he determined that at the time Maria Schicklgruber gave birth to Alois she was working as a household cook in the town of Graz, that her employers were a Jewish family named Frankenberger, and that her child might have been conceived out of wedlock with the family's 19-year-old son, Leopold Frankenberger.\n\nHowever, all Jews had been expelled from the province of Styria (which includes Graz) in the 15th century; they were not allowed to return until the 1860s, when Alois was around 30. Also, there is no evidence of a Frankenberger family living in Graz at that time. Scholars such as Ian Kershaw and Brigitte Hamann dismiss the Frankenberger hypothesis (which had only Frank's speculation to support it) as baseless. (Kershaw cites several stories circulating in the 1920s about Hitler's alleged Jewish ancestry, including one about a \"Baron Rothschild\" in Vienna in whose household Maria Schicklgruber had worked for some time as a servant). Kershaw discusses and also lists Hitler's family tree in his biography of Adolf Hitler and gives no validity as to the Frankenberger tale. Further, Frank's story contains several inaccuracies and contradictions, such as he said \"The fact that Adolf Hitler had no Jewish blood in his veins, seems, from what has been his whole manner, so blatant to me that it needs no further word\", also the statement Frank had made that Maria Schicklgruber came from \"Leonding near Linz\", when in fact she came from the hamlet of Strones, near the village of Döllersheim.\n\nRon Rosenbaum suggests that Frank, who had turned against Nazism after 1945, but remained an anti-Semitic fanatic, made the claim that Hitler had Jewish ancestry as a way of proving that Hitler was a Jew and \"not\" an Aryan.\n\nAlois Schicklgruber made steady progress in the semi-military profession of customs official. The work involved frequent reassignments and he served in a variety of places across Austria. By 1860, after five years of service, he reached the rank of \"Finanzwach-Oberaufseher\" (Revenue guard superintendent). By 1864, after special training and examinations, he had advanced further and was serving in Linz, Austria. He later became an inspector of customs posted at Braunau am Inn in 1875. He eventually rose to full inspector of customs and could go no higher because he lacked the necessary school degrees.\n\nAs a rising young junior customs official, he used his birth name of Schicklgruber, but in mid-1876, 39 years old and well established in his career, he asked permission to use his stepfather's family name. He appeared before the parish priest in Döllersheim and asserted that his father was Johann Georg Hiedler, who had married his mother and now wished to legitimize him. Three relatives appeared with him as witnesses, one of whom was Johann Nepomuk, Hiedler's brother. The priest agreed to amend the birth certificate, the civil authorities automatically processed the church's decision and Alois Schicklgruber had a new name. The official change, registered at the government office in Mistelbach in 1877, transformed him into \"Alois Hitler\". It is not known who decided on the spelling of \"Hitler\" instead of \"Hiedler\". Johann Georg's brother was sometimes known by the surname \"Hüttler\".\n\nBradley Smith states that Alois Schicklgruber openly admitted having been born out of wedlock before and after the name change. Alois may have been influenced to change his name for the sake of legal expediency. Historian Werner Maser claims that in 1876, Franz Schicklgruber, the administrator of Alois's mother's estate, transferred a large sum of money (230 gulden) to him.\n\nSupposedly, Johann Georg Hiedler, who died in 1857, relented on his deathbed and left an inheritance to his illegitimate stepson (Alois) together with his name.\n\nSome Schicklgrubers remain in the \"Waldviertel\".\n\nIn early 1869, Hitler had an affair with Thekla Penz (born September 24, 1844) of Leopoldstein, Arbesbach in the district of Zwettel, Lower Austria. This led to the birth of Theresia Penz on October 31, 1869. Thekla later married a man by the name of Horner, while Theresia married Johan Ramer and gave birth to at least six children, while living in the town of Schwertberg.\n\nHitler was 36 years old when he married for the first time. Anna Glasl-Hörer was a wealthy, 50-year-old daughter of a customs official. She was sick when they married and was either an invalid or became one shortly afterwards.\n\nNot long after marrying his first wife, Anna, Alois Hitler began an affair with Franziska \"Fanni\" Matzelsberger, one of the young female servants employed at the Pommer Inn, house number 219, in the city of Braunau am Inn, where he was renting the top floor as a lodging. Smith states that Alois had numerous affairs in the 1870s, resulting in his wife initiating legal action; on 7 November 1880 Alois and Anna separated by mutual agreement. The 19-year-old Matzelsberger became the 43-year-old Hitler's girlfriend.\n\nIn 1876, three years after Hitler married Anna, he had hired Klara Pölzl as a household servant. She was the 16-year-old granddaughter of Hitler's step-uncle (and possible father or biological uncle) Nepomuk. If Nepomuk was Hitler's father, Klara was Hitler's half-niece. If his father was Johann Georg, she was his first cousin once removed. Matzelsberger demanded that the \"servant girl\" Klara find another job, and Hitler sent Pölzl away.\n\nOn 13 January 1882, Matzelsberger gave birth to Hitler's illegitimate son, also named Alois, but since they were not married, the child's last name was Matzelsberger, making him \"Alois Matzelsberger\". Hitler kept Matzelsberger as his wife while his lawful wife (Anna) grew sicker and died on 6 April 1883. The next month, on 22 May at a ceremony in Braunau with fellow custom officials as witnesses, Hitler, 45, married Matzelsberger, 21. He then legitimized his son as Alois Hitler Jr. Alois's second child, Angela, was born on 28 July 1883.\n\nHitler was secure in his profession and no longer an ambitious climber. Historian Alan Bullock described Alois as \"hard, unsympathetic and short-tempered\". Matzelsberger, still only 23, acquired a lung disorder and became too ill to function. She was moved to Ranshofen, a small village near Braunau. During the last months of Matzelsberger's life, Klara Pölzl returned to Alois's home to look after the invalid and the two children (Alois Jr. and Angela). Matzelsberger died in Ranshofen on 10 August 1884 at the age of 23. After the death of his second wife, Pölzl remained in his home as housekeeper.\n\nPölzl was soon to be pregnant by Hitler. Smith writes that if Hitler had been free to do as he wished, he would have married Pölzl immediately but because of the affidavit concerning his paternity, Hitler was now legally Pölzl's first cousin once removed, too close to marry. He submitted an appeal to the church for a humanitarian waiver. Permission came, and on 7 January 1885 a wedding was held at Hitler's rented rooms on the top floor of the Pommer Inn. A meal was served for the few guests and witnesses. Hitler then went to work for the rest of the day. Even Klara found the wedding to be a short ceremony.\n\nOn 17 May 1885, five months after the wedding, the new Frau Klara Hitler gave birth to her first child, Gustav. In 1886, she gave birth to a daughter, Ida. In 1887 Otto was born, but died days later. During the winter of 1887–1888, diphtheria struck the Hitler household, resulting in the deaths of both Gustav (8 December) and Ida (2 January).\n\nOn 20 April 1889, she gave birth to another son, future leader of the National Socialist German Workers' Party, Adolf. He was a sickly child, and his mother fretted over him. Alois was 51 when he was born. Hitler had little interest in child-rearing, and left it all to his wife. When not at work he was either in a tavern or busy with his hobby, keeping bees. Hitler was transferred from Braunau to Passau. He was 55, Klara 32, Alois Jr. 10, Angela 9, and Adolf was three years old.\n\nBeginning on 1 August, the family lived at Theresienstr. 23. One month after Hitler accepted a better paying position in Linz, on 1 April 1893, his wife and the children moved to a second floor room on Kapuzinerstr. 31. Klara had just given birth to Edmund, so it was decided she and the children would stay in Passau for the time being. On 21 January 1896, Paula, Adolf's younger sister, was born. She was the last child of Alois Hitler and Klara Pölzl. Hitler was often home with his family. He had five children ranging in age from infancy to 14. Edmund (the youngest of the boys) died of measles on 2 February 1900.\n\nHitler wanted his son Adolf to seek a career in the civil service. However, Adolf had become so alienated from his father that he was repulsed by whatever Hitler wanted. Adolf sneered at the thought of a lifetime spent enforcing petty rules. Hitler tried to browbeat his son into obedience, while Adolf did his best to be the opposite of whatever his father wanted.\n\nRobert G. L. Waite noted, \"Even one of his closest friends admitted that Alois was 'awfully rough' with his wife [Klara] and 'hardly ever spoke a word to her at home'.\" If Hitler was in a bad mood, he picked on the older children or Klara herself, in front of them. William Patrick Hitler says that he had heard from his father, Alois Jr., that Alois Hitler Sr. used to beat his children. After Hitler and his eldest son Alois Jr. had a climactic and violent argument, Alois Jr. left home, and the elder Alois swore he would never give the boy a penny of inheritance beyond what the law required. According to reports, Alois Hitler liked to lord it over his neighbors.\n\nIn February 1895, Hitler purchased a house on a nine-acre (36,000 m²) plot in Hafeld near Lambach, approximately southwest of Linz. The farm was called the \"Rauscher Gut\". He moved his family to the farm and retired on 25 June 1895 at the age of 58, after 40 years in the customs service. He found farming difficult; he lost money, and the value of the property declined.\n\nOn the morning of 3 January 1903, Hitler went to the Gasthaus Wiesinger (no. 1 Michaelsbergstrasse, Leonding) as usual to drink his morning glass of wine. He was offered the newspaper and promptly collapsed. He was taken to an adjoining room and a doctor was summoned, but Alois Hitler died at the inn, probably from a pleural hemorrhage. Adolf Hitler, who was 13 when his father died, says in \"Mein Kampf\" that he died of a \"stroke of apoplexy\". In his book, \"The Young Hitler I Knew\", Hitler's childhood friend August Kubizek recalled, \"When the fourteen-year-old [sic] son saw his dead father he burst out into uncontrollable weeping.\"\n\nOn 28 March 2012, by the account of Kurt Pittertschatscher, the pastor of the parish, the tombstone marking Alois Hitler's grave and that of his wife Klara, in Town Cemetery in Leonding, was removed by a descendant. The descendant is said to be an elderly female relative of Alois Hitler's first wife, Anna, who has also given up any rights to the rented burial plot. The plot was covered in white gravel and a tree which has since been removed. It is not known whether the remains of Adolf Hitler's parents are still interred there.\n\nOn screen, Alois has been portrayed by:\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "40776236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40776236", "title": "Andrea Morisco", "text": "Andrea Morisco\n\nAndrea Morisco (in , \"Andreas Mouriskos\") was a Genoese pirate active in the Aegean Sea in the late 13th century, who in 1304 entered the service of the Byzantine Empire. As an admiral and corsair, he was active under Byzantine colours until 1308, when he was captured and executed in Cyprus.\n\nMorisco was a Genoese pirate, active at least since 1279, who had had a successful career fighting against both the Turks and the Venetians. In late 1304, Morisco with his two ships entered the service of the Byzantine emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos, who gave him the rank of \"vestiarios\". The Venetians in retaliation attacked him and burned one of his ships, but in 1305, he attacked the island of Tenedos, and with the aid of some passing Genoese ships recovered it for the Empire. \n\nAt this time, the Byzantines became involved in open war against the mercenaries of the Catalan Company, whom they had invited to fight against the Turks, but who now had turned against Byzantium. In this war, Morisco supplied the town of Madyta, which was besieged by the Catalans, with food, and intercepted the passage of some Turkish allies of the Catalans from crossing over the Hellespont back into Anatolia—the latter a dubious success, as they proceeded to raid the Byzantine province of Thrace instead. For his service, Andronikos II made Morisco an admiral and gave him and his brother Lodovico the islands of Rhodes, Karpathos and Kasos as fiefs.\n\nDuring one of his fights with the Catalans in the Sea of Marmara, he was defeated and captured by the Catalans, but was able to buy his freedom and returned to Tenedos. In 1306, he was back in action, and along with the Byzantines' Genoese allies participated in the unsuccessful siege of Gallipoli, which was held by the Catalans. In 1307 and 1308, along with other Byzantine-sponsored pirates, Morisco was active in the Aegean, attacking Venetian shipping off the Peloponnese.\n\nIn 1308, Morisco was captured by King Henry II of Cyprus, and executed by hanging in Famagusta.\n\n"}
{"id": "5496501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5496501", "title": "Anne of Bohemia and Hungary", "text": "Anne of Bohemia and Hungary\n\nAnna of Bohemia and Hungary (Buda, Hungary, 23 July 1503 – Prague, Bohemia, 27 January 1547), sometimes known as Anna Jagellonica, was Queen of the Romans (Germany), Bohemia and Hungary as the wife of King Ferdinand I, later Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nShe was the elder child and only daughter of King Vladislaus II of Bohemia and Hungary (1456–1516) and his third wife Anne of Foix-Candale. She was an older sister of Louis II of Hungary and Bohemia. Her paternal grandparents were King Casimir IV of Poland, Grand Duke of Lithuania, of the Jagiellon dynasty, and Elisabeth of Austria, one of the heiresses of Bohemia, duchy of Luxembourg and duchy of Kujavia. Her maternal grandparents were Gaston de Foix, Count of Candale and Catherine de Foix, Infanta of the Kingdom of Navarre.\n\nShe was born in Buda (now Budapest). The death of Vladislaus II on 13 March 1516 left both siblings in the care of Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor. It was arranged that Anna marry his grandson, Archduke Ferdinand of Austria, second son of Queen regnant Joanna of Castile and her late husband and co-ruler, Philip I of Castile. Anna married Ferdinand on 26 May 1521 in Linz, Austria. At the time Ferdinand was governing the Habsburg hereditary lands on behalf of his older brother Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor. It was stipulated that Ferdinand should succeed Anne's brother in case he died without male heirs.\n\nHer brother Louis was killed in the Battle of Mohács against Suleiman the Magnificent of the Ottoman Empire on 29 August 1526. This left the thrones of both Bohemia and Hungary vacant. Ferdinand claimed both kingdoms and was elected King of Bohemia on 24 October of the same year, making Anna Queen of Bohemia.\n\nHungary was a more difficult case. Suleiman had annexed much of its lands. Ferdinand was proclaimed King of Hungary by a group of nobles, but another faction of Hungarian nobles refused to allow a foreign ruler to hold that title and elected John Zápolya as an alternative king. The resulting conflict between the two rivals and their successors lasted until 1571. In 1531, Ferdinand's older brother Charles V recognised Ferdinand as his successor as Holy Roman Emperor, and Ferdinand was elevated to the title King of the Romans.\n\nAnna and Ferdinand had fifteen children, all of whom were born in Bohemia or Hungary. Both of these kingdoms had suffered for centuries from premature deaths among heirs and a shortage of succession prospects. Meanwhile, Anna served as queen consort of Bohemia and as one of three living queens of Hungary until her death. She died in Prague, days after giving birth to her last daughter Joanna. In 1556, Charles V abdicated and Ferdinand succeeded as emperor, nine years after Anna's death.\n"}
{"id": "8343148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8343148", "title": "Bonnie Bryant (golfer)", "text": "Bonnie Bryant (golfer)\n\nBonnie Bryant (born October 5, 1943) is an American professional golfer who played on the LPGA Tour. She is the only player in LPGA Tour history to win a tournament left-handed.\n\nBryant was born in Tulare, California. She did not take up golf until age 20, learning from Vic Lombardi, a National League pitcher for Brooklyn and Pittsburgh. Prior to taking up golf, she played five years of AAA-fast pitch softball.\n\nBryant joined the LPGA Tour in 1971. She won once on the LPGA Tour. Her win came at the 1974 Bill Branch LPGA Classic in Fort Myers, Florida. She shot a 7-under-par, 209 to claim the $5,700 first prize. She also lost to Nancy Lopez in a five-way sudden death playoff at the 1979 Coca-Cola Classic.\n\nLPGA Tour playoff record (0–1)\n"}
{"id": "2146034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2146034", "title": "CRISPR", "text": "CRISPR\n\nCRISPR () (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats) is a family of DNA sequences found within the genomes of prokaryotic organisms such as bacteria and archaea. These sequences are derived from DNA fragments from viruses that have previously infected the prokaryote and are used to detect and destroy DNA from similar viruses during subsequent infections. Hence these sequences play a key role in the antiviral defense system of prokaryotes. Cas9 (or \"CRISPR-associated 9\") is an enzyme that uses CRISPR sequences as a guide to recognize and cleave specific strands of DNA that are complementary to the CRISPR sequence. Cas9 enzymes together with CRISPR sequences form the basis of a technology known as CRISPR/Cas9 that can be used to edit genes within organisms. This type of gene editing process has a wide variety of applications including use as a basic biology research tool, development of biotechnology products, and potentially to treat diseases.\n\nCRISPR is an abbreviation of Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats. The term was first used at a time when the origin and function of these subsequences were not known and they were assumed to be prokaryotic in origin. CRISPR are segments of DNA containing short, repetitive base sequences in a palindromic repeat (the sequence of nucleotides is the same in both directions). Each repetition is followed by short segments of spacer DNA from previous integration of foreign DNA from a virus or plasmid. Small clusters of \"cas\" (CRISPR-associated) genes are located next to CRISPR sequences.\nThe CRISPR/Cas system is a prokaryotic immune system that confers resistance to foreign genetic elements such as those present within plasmids and phages that provides a form of acquired immunity. RNA harboring the spacer sequence helps Cas (CRISPR-associated) proteins recognize and cut foreign pathogenic DNA. Other RNA-guided Cas proteins cut foreign RNA. CRISPR are found in approximately 50% of sequenced bacterial genomes and nearly 90% of sequenced archaea.\n\nA simple version of the CRISPR/Cas system, CRISPR/Cas9, has been modified to edit genomes. By delivering the Cas9 nuclease complexed with a synthetic guide RNA (gRNA) into a cell, the cell's genome can be cut at a desired location, allowing existing genes to be removed and/or new ones added. The Cas9-gRNA complex corresponds with the CAS III CRISPR-RNA complex in the accompanying diagram.\n\nCRISPR/Cas genome editing techniques have many potential applications, including medicine and crop seed enhancement. The use of CRISPR/Cas9-gRNA complex for genome editing was the AAAS's choice for breakthrough of the year in 2015. Bioethical concerns have been raised about the prospect of using CRISPR for germline editing.\n\nThe discovery of clustered DNA repeats occurred independently in three parts of the world. The first description of what would later be called CRISPR is from Osaka University researcher Yoshizumi Ishino and his colleagues in 1987. They accidentally cloned part of a CRISPR together with the \"iap\" gene, the target of interest. The organization of the repeats was unusual because repeated sequences are typically arranged consecutively along DNA. They studied the relation of \"iap\" to the bacterium \"E. coli\". The function of the interrupted clustered repeats was not known at the time.\n\nIn 1993, researchers of \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" in the Netherlands published two articles about a cluster of interrupted direct repeats (DR) in this bacterium. These researchers recognized the diversity of the DR-intervening sequences among different strains of \"M. tuberculosis\" and used this property to design a typing method that was named \"spoligotyping\", which is still in use today.\n\nAt the same time, repeats were observed in the archaeal organisms of \"Haloferax\" and \"Haloarcula\" species, and their function was studied by Francisco Mojica at the University of Alicante in Spain. Although his hypothesis turned out to be wrong, Mojica's supervisor surmised at the time that the clustered repeats had a role in correctly segregating replicated DNA into daughter cells during cell division because plasmids and chromosomes with identical repeat arrays could not coexist in \"Haloferax volcanii\". Transcription of the interrupted repeats was also noted for the first time. By 2000, Mojica performed a survey of scientific literature and one of his students performed a search in published genomes with a program devised by himself. They identified interrupted repeats in 20 species of microbes as belonging to the same family. In 2001, Mojica and Ruud Jansen, who was searching for additional interrupted repeats, proposed the acronym CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats) to alleviate the confusion stemming from the numerous acronyms used to describe the sequences in the scientific literature. In 2002, Tang, et al. showed evidence that CRISPR repeat regions from the genome of Archaeoglobus fulgidus were transcribed into long RNA molecules that were subsequently processed into unit-length small RNAs, plus some longer forms of 2, 3, or more spacer-repeat units.\n\nA major addition to the understanding of CRISPR came with Jansen's observation that the prokaryote repeat cluster was accompanied by a set of homologous genes that make up CRISPR-associated systems or \"cas\" genes. Four \"cas\" genes (\"cas\" 1 - 4) were initially recognized. The Cas proteins showed helicase and nuclease motifs, suggesting a role in the dynamic structure of the CRISPR loci. In this publication the acronym CRISPR was coined as the universal name of this pattern. However, the CRISPR function remained enigmatic.\nIn 2005, three independent research groups showed that some CRISPR spacers are derived from phage DNA and extrachromosomal DNA such as plasmids. In effect, the spacers are fragments of DNA gathered from viruses that previously tried to attack the cell. The source of the spacers was a sign that the CRISPR/\"cas\" system could have a role in adaptive immunity in bacteria. All three studies proposing this idea were initially rejected by high-profile journals, but eventually appeared in other journals.\n\nThe first publication proposing a role of CRISPR-Cas in microbial immunity, by the researchers at the University of Alicante, predicted a role for the RNA transcript of spacers on target recognition in a mechanism that could be analogous to the RNA interference system used by eukaryotic cells. Koonin and colleagues extended this RNA interference hypothesis by proposing mechanisms of action for the different CRISPR-Cas subtypes according to the predicted function of their proteins.\n\nExperimental work by several groups revealed the basic mechanisms of CRISPR-Cas immunity. In 2007, the first experimental evidence that CRISPR was an adaptive immune system was published. A CRISPR region in \"Streptococcus thermophilus\" acquired spacers from the DNA of an infecting bacteriophage. The researchers manipulated the resistance of \"S. thermophilus\" to phage by adding and deleting spacers whose sequence matched those found in the tested phages. In 2008, Brouns and Van der Oost identified a complex of Cas proteins (called Cascade) that in \"E. coli\" cut the CRISPR RNA precursor within the repeats into mature spacer-containing RNA molecules (crRNA), which remained bound to the protein complex. Moreover, it was found that Cascade, crRNA and a helicase/nuclease (Cas3) were required to provide a bacterial host with immunity against infection by a DNA virus. By designing an anti-virus CRISPR, they demonstrated that two orientations of the crRNA (sense/antisense) provided immunity, indicating that the crRNA guides were targeting dsDNA. That year Marraffini and Sontheimer indeed confirmed that a CRISPR sequence of \"S. epidermidis\" targeted DNA and not RNA to prevent conjugation. This finding was at odds with the proposed RNA-interference-like mechanism of CRISPR-Cas immunity, although a CRISPR-Cas system that targets foreign RNA was later found in \"Pyrococcus furiosus\". A 2010 study showed that CRISPR-Cas cuts both strands of phage and plasmid DNA in \"S. thermophilus\".\n\nResearchers studied a simpler CRISPR system from \"Streptococcus pyogenes\" that relies on the protein Cas9. The Cas9 endonuclease is a four-component system that includes two small RNA molecules named CRISPR RNA (crRNA) and trans-activating CRISPR RNA (tracrRNA). Jennifer Doudna and Emmanuelle Charpentier re-engineered the Cas9 endonuclease into a more manageable two-component system by fusing the two RNA molecules into a \"single-guide RNA\" that, when combined with Cas9, could find and cut the DNA target specified by the guide RNA. By manipulating the nucleotide sequence of the guide RNA, the artificial Cas9 system could be programmed to target any DNA sequence for cleavage. Another group of collaborators comprising Virginijus Šikšnys together with Gasiūnas, Barrangou and Horvath showed that Cas9 from the \"S. thermophilus\" CRISPR system can also be reprogrammed to target a site of their choosing by changing the sequence of its crRNA. These advances fueled efforts to edit genomes with the modified CRISPR-Cas9 system.\n\nFeng Zhang's and George Church's groups simultaneously described genome editing in human cell cultures using CRISPR-Cas9 for the first time. It has since been used in a wide range of organisms, including baker's yeast (\"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\"), the opportunistic pathogen \"Candida albicans\", zebrafish (\"Danio rerio\"), fruit flies (\"Drosophila melanogaster\"), ants (\"Harpegnathos saltator\" and \"Ooceraea biroi\"), mosquitoes (\"Aedes aegypti\"), nematodes (\"Caenorhabditis elegans\"), plants, mice, monkeys and human embryos.\n\nCRISPR has been modified to make programmable transcription factors that allow scientists to target and activate or silence specific genes.\n\nThe CRISPR/Cas9 system has shown to make effective gene edits in Human tripronuclear zygotes first described in a 2015 paper by Chinese scientists P. Liang and Y. Xu. The system made a successful cleavage of mutant Beta-Hemoglobin (HBB) in 28 out of 54 embryos. 4 out of the 28 embryos were successfully recombined using a donor template given by the scientists. The scientists showed that during DNA recombination of the cleaved strand, the homologous endogenous sequence HBD competes with the exogenous donor template. DNA repair in human embryos is much more complicated and particular than in derived stem cells.\n\nIn 2015, the nuclease Cpf1 was characterized in the CRISPR/Cpf1 system of the bacterium \"Francisella novicida\". The name, from a TIGRFAMs protein family definition built in 2012, reflects the prevalence of its CRISPR-Cas subtype in the Prevotella and Francisella lineages. Cpf1 showed several key differences from Cas9 including: causing a 'staggered' cut in double stranded DNA as opposed to the 'blunt' cut produced by Cas9, relying on a 'T rich' PAM (providing alternative targeting sites to Cas9) and requiring only a CRISPR RNA (crRNA) for successful targeting. By contrast Cas9 requires both crRNA and a transactivating crRNA (tracrRNA).\n\nThese differences may give Cpf1 some advantages over Cas9. For example, Cpf1's small crRNAs are ideal for multiplexed genome editing, as more of them can be packaged in one vector than can Cas9's sgRNAs. As well, the sticky 5' overhangs left by Cpf1 can be used for DNA assembly that is much more target-specific than traditional Restriction Enzyme cloning. Finally, Cpf1 cleaves DNA 18-23 base pairs downstream from the PAM site. This means there is no disruption to the recognition sequence after repair, and so Cpf1 enables multiple rounds of DNA cleavage. By contrast, since Cas9 cuts only 3 base pairs upstream of the PAM site, the NHEJ pathway results in indel mutations which destroy the recognition sequence, thereby preventing further rounds of cutting. In theory, repeated rounds of DNA cleavage should cause an increased opportunity for the desired genomic editing to occur.\n\nThe CRISPR array comprises an AT-rich leader sequence followed by short repeats that are separated by unique spacers. CRISPR repeats typically range in size from 28 to 37 base pairs (bps), though there can be as few as 23 bp and as many as 55 bp. Some show dyad symmetry, implying the formation of a secondary structure such as a stem-loop ('hairpin') in the RNA, while others are predicted to be unstructured. The size of spacers in different CRISPR arrays is typically 32 to 38 bp (range 21 to 72 bp). New spacers can appear rapidly as part of the immune response to phage infection. There are usually fewer than 50 units of the repeat-spacer sequence in a CRISPR array.\n\nSmall clusters of \"cas\" genes are often located next to CRISPR repeat-spacer arrays. Collectively the 93 \"cas\" genes are grouped into 35 families based on sequence similarity of the encoded proteins. 11 of the 35 families form the \"cas\" core, which includes the protein families Cas1 through Cas9. A complete CRISPR-Cas locus has at least one gene belonging to the \"cas\" core.\n\nCRISPR-Cas systems fall into two classes. Class 1 systems use a complex of multiple Cas proteins to degrade foreign nucleic acids. Class 2 systems use a single large Cas protein for the same purpose. Class 1 is divided into types I, III, and IV; class 2 is divided into types II, V, and VI. The 6 system types are divided into 19 subtypes. Each type and most subtypes are characterized by a \"signature gene\" found almost exclusively in the category. Classification is also based on the complement of \"cas\" genes that are present. Most CRISPR-Cas systems have a Cas1 protein. The phylogeny of Cas1 proteins generally agrees with the classification system. Many organisms contain multiple CRISPR-Cas systems suggesting that they are compatible and may share components. The sporadic distribution of the CRISPR/Cas subtypes suggests that the CRISPR/Cas system is subject to horizontal gene transfer during microbial evolution.\n\nCRISPR-Cas immunity is a natural process of bacteria and archaea. CRISPR-Cas prevents bacteriophage infection, conjugation and natural transformation by degrading foreign nucleic acids that enter the cell.\n\nWhen a microbe is invaded by a virus, the first stage of the immune response is to capture viral DNA and insert it into a CRISPR locus in the form of a spacer. Cas1 and Cas2 are found in both types of CRISPR-Cas immune systems, which indicates that they are involved in spacer acquisition. Mutation studies confirmed this hypothesis, showing that removal of cas1 or cas2 stopped spacer acquisition, without affecting CRISPR immune response.\n\nMultiple Cas1 proteins have been characterised and their structures resolved. Cas1 proteins have diverse amino acid sequences. However, their crystal structures are similar and all purified Cas1 proteins are metal-dependent nucleases/integrases that bind to DNA in a sequence-independent manner. Representative Cas2 proteins have been characterised and possess either (single strand) ssRNA- or (double strand) dsDNA- specific endoribonuclease activity.\n\nIn the I-E system of \"E. coli\" Cas1 and Cas2 form a complex where a Cas2 dimer bridges two Cas1 dimers. In this complex Cas2 performs a non-enzymatic scaffolding role, binding double-stranded fragments of invading DNA, while Cas1 binds the single-stranded flanks of the DNA and catalyses their integration into CRISPR arrays. New spacers are usually added at the beginning of the CRISPR next to the leader sequence creating a chronological record of viral infections. In \"E. coli\" a histone like protein called integration host factor (IHF), which binds to the leader sequence, is responsible for the accuracy of this integration. IHF also enhances integration efficiency in the type I-F system of \"Pectobacterium atrosepticum\". but in other systems different host factors may be required\n\nBioinformatic analysis of regions of phage genomes that were excised as spacers (termed protospacers) revealed that they were not randomly selected but instead were found adjacent to short (3 – 5 bp) DNA sequences termed protospacer adjacent motifs (PAM). Analysis of CRISPR-Cas systems showed PAMs to be important for type I and type II, but not type III systems during acquisition. In type I and type II systems, protospacers are excised at positions adjacent to a PAM sequence, with the other end of the spacer cut using a ruler mechanism, thus maintaining the regularity of the spacer size in the CRISPR array. The conservation of the PAM sequence differs between CRISPR-Cas systems and appears to be evolutionarily linked to Cas1 and the leader sequence.\n\nNew spacers are added to a CRISPR array in a directional manner, occurring preferentially, but not exclusively, adjacent to the leader sequence. Analysis of the type I-E system from \"E. coli\" demonstrated that the first direct repeat adjacent to the leader sequence, is copied, with the newly acquired spacer inserted between the first and second direct repeats.\n\nThe PAM sequence appears to be important during spacer insertion in type I-E systems. That sequence contains a strongly conserved final nucleotide (nt) adjacent to the first nt of the protospacer. This nt becomes the final base in the first direct repeat. This suggests that the spacer acquisition machinery generates single-stranded overhangs in the second-to-last position of the direct repeat and in the PAM during spacer insertion. However, not all CRISPR-Cas systems appear to share this mechanism as PAMs in other organisms do not show the same level of conservation in the final position. It is likely that in those systems, a blunt end is generated at the very end of the direct repeat and the protospacer during acquisition.\n\nAnalysis of \"Sulfolobus solfataricus\" CRISPRs revealed further complexities to the canonical model of spacer insertion, as one of its six CRISPR loci inserted new spacers randomly throughout its CRISPR array, as opposed to inserting closest to the leader sequence.\n\nMultiple CRISPRs contain many spacers to the same phage. The mechanism that causes this phenomenon was discovered in the type I-E system of \"E. coli\". A significant enhancement in spacer acquisition was detected where spacers already target the phage, even mismatches to the protospacer. This ‘priming’ requires the Cas proteins involved in both acquisition and interference to interact with each other. Newly acquired spacers that result from the priming mechanism are always found on the same strand as the priming spacer. This observation led to the hypothesis that the acquisition machinery slides along the foreign DNA after priming to find a new protospacer.\n\nCRISPR-RNA (crRNA), which later guides the Cas nuclease to the target during the interference step, must be generated from the CRISPR sequence. The crRNA is initially transcribed as part of a single long transcript encompassing much of the CRISPR array. This transcript is then cleaved by Cas proteins to form crRNAs. The mechanism to produce crRNAs differs among CRISPR/Cas systems. In type I-E and type I-F systems, the proteins Cas6e and Cas6f respectively, recognise stem-loops created by the pairing of identical repeats that flank the crRNA. These Cas proteins cleave the longer transcript at the edge of the paired region, leaving a single crRNA along with a small remnant of the paired repeat region.\n\nType III systems also use Cas6, however their repeats do not produce stem-loops. Cleavage instead occurs by the longer transcript wrapping around the Cas6 to allow cleavage just upstream of the repeat sequence.\n\nType II systems lack the Cas6 gene and instead utilize RNaseIII for cleavage. Functional type II systems encode an extra small RNA that is complementary to the repeat sequence, known as a trans-activating crRNA (tracrRNA). Transcription of the tracrRNA and the primary CRISPR transcript results in base pairing and the formation of dsRNA at the repeat sequence, which is subsequently targeted by RNaseIII to produce crRNAs. Unlike the other two systems the crRNA does not contain the full spacer, which is instead truncated at one end.\n\nCrRNAs associate with Cas proteins to form ribonucleotide complexes that recognize foreign nucleic acids. CrRNAs show no preference between the coding and non-coding strands, which is indicative of an RNA-guided DNA-targeting system. The type I-E complex (commonly referred to as Cascade) requires five Cas proteins bound to a single crRNA.\n\nDuring the interference stage in type I systems the PAM sequence is recognized on the crRNA-complementary strand and is required along with crRNA annealing. In type I systems correct base pairing between the crRNA and the protospacer signals a conformational change in Cascade that recruits Cas3 for DNA degradation.\n\nType II systems rely on a single multifunctional protein, Cas9, for the interference step. Cas9 requires both the crRNA and the tracrRNA to function and cleaves DNA using its dual HNH and RuvC/RNaseH-like endonuclease domains. Basepairing between the PAM and the phage genome is required in type II systems. However, the PAM is recognized on the same strand as the crRNA (the opposite strand to type I systems).\n\nType III systems, like type I require six or seven Cas proteins binding to crRNAs. The type III systems analysed from \"S. solfataricus\" and \"P. furiosus\" both target the mRNA of phages rather than phage DNA genome, which may make these systems uniquely capable of targeting RNA-based phage genomes.\n\nThe mechanism for distinguishing self from foreign DNA during interference is built into the crRNAs and is therefore likely common to all three systems. Throughout the distinctive maturation process of each major type, all crRNAs contain a spacer sequence and some portion of the repeat at one or both ends. It is the partial repeat sequence that prevents the CRISPR-Cas system from targeting the chromosome as base pairing beyond the spacer sequence signals self and prevents DNA cleavage. RNA-guided CRISPR enzymes are classified as type V restriction enzymes.\n\nThe cas genes in the adaptor and effector modules of the CRISPR-Cas system are believed to have evolved from two different ancestral modules. A casposon containing an ancestor adaptor module that functioned as a toxin-antitoxin immune system was inserted next to the ancestral effector module, which also likely functioned as an independent immune system. The highly conserved cas1 and cas2 genes of the adaptor module evolved from the ancestral module while a variety of class 1 effector was genes evolved from the ancestral effector module. The evolution of these various class 1 effector module cas genes was guided by various mechanisms, such as duplication events. On the other hand, each type of class 2 effector module arose from subsequent independent insertions of mobile genetic elements. These mobile genetic elements took the place of the multiple gene effector modules to create single gene effector modules that produce large proteins which perform all the necessary tasks of the effector module. The spacer regions of CRISPR-Cas systems are taken directly from foreign mobile genetic elements and thus their long term evolution is hard to trace. The non-random evolution of these spacer regions has been found to be highly dependent on the environment and the particular foreign mobile genetic elements it contains.\n\nCRISPR/Cas can immunize bacteria against certain phages and thus halt transmission. For this reason, Koonin described CRISPR/Cas as a Lamarckian inheritance mechanism. However, this was disputed by a critic who noted, \"We should remember [Lamarck] for the good he contributed to science, not for things that resemble his theory only superficially. Indeed, thinking of CRISPR and other phenomena as Lamarckian only obscures the simple and elegant way evolution really works\". As more recent studies have been conducted, it has become apparent that the acquired spacer regions of CRISPR-Cas systems are a from of Lamarckian evolution because they are genetic mutations that are acquired and then passed on. On the other hand, the evolution of the car gene machinery that facilitates the system evolves through classic Darwinian evolution.\n\nAnalysis of CRISPR sequences revealed coevolution of host and viral genomes. Cas9 proteins are highly enriched in pathogenic and commensal bacteria. CRISPR/Cas-mediated gene regulation may contribute to the regulation of endogenous bacterial genes, particularly during interaction with eukaryotic hosts. For example, \"Francisella novicida\" uses a unique, small, CRISPR/Cas-associated RNA (scaRNA) to repress an endogenous transcript encoding a bacterial lipoprotein that is critical for \"F. novicida\" to dampen host response and promote virulence.\n\nThe basic model of CRISPR evolution is newly incorporated spacers driving phages to mutate their genomes to avoid the bacterial immune response, creating diversity in both the phage and host populations. To fight off a phage infection, the sequence of the CRISPR spacer must correspond perfectly to the sequence of the target phage gene. Phages can continue to infect their hosts given point mutations in the spacer. Similar stringency is required in PAM or the bacterial strain remains phage sensitive.\n\nA study of 124 \"S. thermophilus\" strains showed that 26% of all spacers were unique and that different CRISPR loci showed different rates of spacer acquisition. Some CRISPR loci evolve more rapidly than others, which allowed the strains' phylogenetic relationships to be determined. A comparative genomic analysis showed that \"E. coli\" and \"S. enterica\" evolve much more slowly than \"S. thermophilus\". The latter's strains that diverged 250 thousand years ago still contained the same spacer complement.\n\nMetagenomic analysis of two acid mine drainage biofilms showed that one of the analyzed CRISPRs contained extensive deletions and spacer additions versus the other biofilm, suggesting a higher phage activity/prevalence in one community than the other. In the oral cavity, a temporal study determined that 7-22% of spacers were shared over 17 months within an individual while less than 2% were shared across individuals.\n\nFrom the same environment a single strain was tracked using PCR primers specific to its CRISPR system. Broad-level results of spacer presence/absence showed significant diversity. However, this CRISPR added 3 spacers over 17 months, suggesting that even in an environment with significant CRISPR diversity some loci evolve slowly.\n\nCRISPRs were analysed from the metagenomes produced for the human microbiome project. Although most were body-site specific, some within a body site are widely shared among individuals. One of these loci originated from streptococcal species and contained ~15,000 spacers, 50% of which were unique. Similar to the targeted studies of the oral cavity, some showed little evolution over time.\n\nCRISPR evolution was studied in chemostats using \"S. thermophilus\" to directly examine spacer acquisition rates. In one week, \"S. thermophilus\" strains acquired up to three spacers when challenged with a single phage. During the same interval the phage developed single nucleotide polymorphisms that became fixed in the population, suggesting that targeting had prevented phage replication absent these mutations.\n\nAnother \"S. thermophilus\" experiment showed that phages can infect and replicate in hosts that have only one targeting spacer. Yet another showed that sensitive hosts can exist in environments with high phage titres. The chemostat and observational studies suggest many nuances to CRISPR and phage (co)evolution.\n\nCRISPRs are widely distributed among bacteria and archaea and show some sequence similarities. Their most notable characteristic is their repeating spacers and direct repeats. This characteristic makes CRISPRs easily identifiable in long sequences of DNA, since the number of repeats decreases the likelihood of a false positive match.\n\nAnalysis of CRISPRs in metagenomic data is more challenging, as CRISPR loci do not typically assemble, due to their repetitive nature or through strain variation, which confuses assembly algorithms. Where many reference genomes are available, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can be used to amplify CRISPR arrays and analyse spacer content. However, this approach yields information only for specifically targeted CRISPRs and for organisms with sufficient representation in public databases to design reliable polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers.\n\nThe alternative is to extract and reconstruct CRISPR arrays from shotgun metagenomic data. This is computationally more difficult, particularly with second generation sequencing technologies (e.g. 454, Illumina), as the short read lengths prevent more than two or three repeat units appearing in a single read. CRISPR identification in raw reads has been achieved using purely \"de novo\" identification or by using direct repeat sequences in partially assembled CRISPR arrays from contigs (overlapping DNA segments that together represent a consensus region of DNA) and direct repeat sequences from published genomes as a hook for identifying direct repeats in individual reads.\n\nAnother way for bacteria to defend against phage infection is by having chromosomal islands. A subtype of chromosomal islands called phage-inducible chromosomal island (PICI) is excised from a bacterial chromosome upon phage infection and can inhibit phage replication. PICIs are induced, excised, replicated and finally packaged into small capsids by certain staphylococcal temperate phages. PICIs use several mechanisms to block phage reproduction. In first mechanism PICI-encoded Ppi differentially blocks phage maturation by binding or interacting specifically with phage TerS, hence blocks phage TerS/TerL complex formation responsible for phage DNA packaging. In second mechanism PICI CpmAB redirect the phage capsid morphogenetic protein to make 95% of SaPI-sized capsid and pahage DNA can package only 1/3rd of their genome in these small capsid and hence become nonviable phage. The third mechanism involves two proteins, PtiA and PtiB, that target the LtrC, which is responsible for the production of virion and lysis proteins. This interference mechanism is modulated by a modulatory protein, PtiM, binds to one of the interference-mediating proteins, PtiA, and hence achieving the required level of interference.\n\nOne study showed that lytic ICP1 phage, which specifically targets \"Vibrio cholerae\" serogroup O1, has acquired a CRISPR/Cas system that targets a \"V. cholera\" PICI-like element. The system has 2 CRISPR loci and 9 Cas genes. It seems to be homologous to the I-F system found in \"Yersinia pestis\". Moreover, like the bacterial CRISPR/Cas system, ICP1 CRISPR/Cas can acquire new sequences, which allows phage and host to co-evolve.\n\nBy the end of 2014 some 1000 research papers had been published that mentioned CRISPR. The technology had been used to functionally inactivate genes in human cell lines and cells, to study \"Candida albicans\", to modify yeasts used to make biofuels and to genetically modify crop strains. CRISPR can also be used to change mosquitos so they cannot transmit diseases such as malaria.\n\nCRISPR-based re-evaluations of claims for gene-disease relationships have led to the discovery of potentially important anomalies.\n\nIn the early 2000s, researchers developed zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs), synthetic proteins whose DNA-binding domains enable them to create double-stranded breaks in DNA at specific points. In 2010, synthetic nucleases called transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) provided an easier way to target a double-stranded break to a specific location on the DNA strand. Both zinc finger nucleases and TALENs require the creation of a custom protein for each targeted DNA sequence, which is a more difficult and time-consuming process than that for guide RNAs. CRISPRs are much easier to design because the process requires making only a short RNA sequence.\n\nWhereas RNA interference (RNAi) does not fully suppress gene function, CRISPR, ZFNs and TALENs provide full irreversible gene knockout. CRISPR can also target several DNA sites simultaneously by simply introducing different gRNAs. In addition, CRISPR costs are relatively low.\n\nCRISPR/Cas9 genome editing is carried out with a Type II CRISPR system. When utilized for genome editing, this system includes Cas9, crRNA, tracrRNA along with an optional section of DNA repair template that is utilized in either non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) or homology directed repair (HDR).\n\nCRISPR/Cas9 often employs a plasmid to transfect the target cells. The main components of this plasmid are displayed in the image and listed in the table. The crRNA needs to be designed for each application as this is the sequence that Cas9 uses to identify and directly bind to the cell's DNA. The crRNA must bind only where editing is desired. The repair template is designed for each application, as it must overlap with the sequences on either side of the cut and code for the insertion sequence.\n\nMultiple crRNAs and the tracrRNA can be packaged together to form a single-guide RNA (sgRNA). This sgRNA can be joined together with the Cas9 gene and made into a plasmid in order to be transfected into cells.\n\nCRISPR/Cas9 offers a high degree of fidelity and relatively simple construction. It depends on two factors for its specificity: the target sequence and the PAM. The target sequence is 20 bases long as part of each CRISPR locus in the crRNA array. A typical crRNA array has multiple unique target sequences. Cas9 proteins select the correct location on the host's genome by utilizing the sequence to bond with base pairs on the host DNA. The sequence is not part of the Cas9 protein and as a result is customizable and can be independently synthesized.\n\nThe PAM sequence on the host genome is recognized by Cas9. Cas9 cannot be easily modified to recognize a different PAM sequence. However this is not too limiting as it is a short sequence and nonspecific (e.g. the SpCas9 PAM sequence is 5'-NGG-3' and in the human genome occurs roughly every 8 to 12 base pairs).\n\nOnce these have been assembled into a plasmid and transfected into cells the Cas9 protein with the help of the crRNA finds the correct sequence in the host cell's DNA and – depending on the Cas9 variant – creates a single or double strand break in the DNA.\n\nProperly spaced single strand breaks in the host DNA can trigger homology directed repair, which is less error prone than the non-homologous end joining that typically follows a double strand break. Providing a DNA repair template allows for the insertion of a specific DNA sequence at an exact location within the genome. The repair template should extend 40 to 90 base pairs beyond the Cas9 induced DNA break. The goal is for the cell's HDR process to utilize the provided repair template and thereby incorporate the new sequence into the genome. Once incorporated, this new sequence is now part of the cell's genetic material and passes into its daughter cells.\n\nMany online tools are available to aid in designing effective sgRNA sequences.\n\nDelivery of Cas9, sgRNA, and associated complexes into cells can occur via viral and non-viral systems. Electroporation of DNA, RNA, or ribonucleocomplexes is a common technique, though it can result in harmful effects on the target cells. Chemical transfection techniques utilizing lipids have also been used to introduce sgRNA in complex with Cas9 into cells. Hard-to-transfect cells (e.g. stem cells, neurons, and hematopoietic cells) require more efficient delivery systems such as those based on lentivirus (LVs), adenovirus (AdV) and adeno-associated virus (AAV).\n\nCRISPRs have been used to cut five to 62 genes at once: pig cells have been engineered to inactivate all 62 Porcine Endogenous Retroviruses in the pig genome, which eliminated transinfection from the pig to human cells in culture. CRISPR's low cost compared to alternatives is widely seen as revolutionary.\n\nSelective engineered redirection of the CRISPR/Cas system was first demonstrated in 2012 in:\n\n\nSeveral variants of CRISPR/Cas9 allow gene activation or genome editing with an external trigger such as light or small molecules. These include photoactivatable CRISPR systems developed by fusing light-responsive protein partners with an activator domain and a dCas9 for gene activation, or fusing similar light responsive domains with two constructs of split-Cas9, or by incorporating caged unnatural amino acids into Cas9, or by modifying the guide RNAs with photocleavable complements for genome editing.\n\nMethods to control genome editing with small molecules include an allosteric Cas9, with no detectable background editing, that will activate binding and cleavage upon the addition of 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-HT), 4-HT responsive intein-linked Cas9s or a Cas9 that is 4-HT responsive when fused to four ERT2 domains. Intein-inducible split-Cas9 allows dimerization of Cas9 fragments and Rapamycin-inducible split-Cas9 system developed by fusing two constructs of split Cas9 with FRB and FKBP fragments. Furthermore, other studies have shown to induce transcription of Cas9 with a small molecule, doxycycline. Small molecules can also be used to improve Homology Directed Repair (HDR), often by inhibiting the Non-Homologous End Joining (NHEJ) pathway. These systems allow conditional control of CRISPR activity for improved precision, efficiency and spatiotemporal control.\n\nUsing \"dead\" versions of Cas9 (dCas9) eliminates CRISPR's DNA-cutting ability, while preserving its ability to target desirable sequences. Multiple groups added various regulatory factors to dCas9s, enabling them to turn almost any gene on or off or adjust its level of activity. Like RNAi, CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) turns off genes in a reversible fashion by targeting, but not cutting a site. The targeted site is methylated, epigenetically modifying the gene. This modification inhibits transcription. These precisely placed modifications may then be used to regulate the effects on gene expressions and DNA dynamics after the inhibition of certain genome sequences within DNA. Within the past few years, epigenetic marks in different human cells have been closely researched and certain patterns within the marks have been found to correlate with everything ranging from tumor growth to brain activity. Conversely, CRISPR-mediated activation (CRISPRa) promotes gene transcription. Cas9 is an effective way of targeting and silencing specific genes at the DNA level. In bacteria, the presence of Cas9 alone is enough to block transcription. For mammalian applications, a section of protein is added. Its guide RNA targets regulatory DNA sequences called promoters that immediately precede the target gene.\n\nCas9 was used to carry synthetic transcription factors that activated specific human genes. The technique achieved a strong effect by targeting multiple CRISPR constructs to slightly different locations on the gene's promoter.\n\nIn 2016, researchers demonstrated that CRISPR from an ordinary mouth bacterium could be used to edit RNA. The researchers searched databases containing hundreds of millions of genetic sequences for those that resembled Crispr genes. They considered the fusobacteria \"Leptotrichia shahii\". It had a group of genes that resembled CRISPR genes, but with important differences. When the researchers equipped other bacteria with these genes, which they called C2c2, they found that the organisms gained a novel defense.\n\nMany viruses encode their genetic information in RNA rather than DNA that they repurpose to make new viruses. HIV and poliovirus are such viruses. Bacteria with C2c2 make molecules that can dismember RNA, destroying the virus. Tailoring these genes opened any RNA molecule to editing.\n\nCRISPR-Cas systems can also be employed for editing of micro-RNA and long-noncoding RNA genes in plants.\n\nCRISPR simplifies creation of animals for research that mimic disease or show what happens when a gene is knocked down or mutated. CRISPR may be used at the germline level to create animals where the gene is changed everywhere, or it may be targeted at non-germline cells.\n\nCRISPR can be utilized to create human cellular models of disease. For instance, applied to human pluripotent stem cells CRISPR introduced targeted mutations in genes relevant to polycystic kidney disease (PKD) and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). These CRISPR-modified pluripotent stem cells were subsequently grown into human kidney organoids that exhibited disease-specific phenotypes. Kidney organoids from stem cells with PKD mutations formed large, translucent cyst structures from kidney tubules. The cysts were capable of reaching macroscopic dimensions, up to one centimeter in diameter. Kidney organoids with mutations in a gene linked to FSGS developed junctional defects between podocytes, the filtering cells affected in that disease. This was traced to the inability of podocytes ability to form microvilli between adjacent cells. Importantly, these disease phenotypes were absent in control organoids of identical genetic background, but lacking the CRISPR modifications.\n\nA similar approach was taken to model long QT syndrome in cardiomyocytes derived from pluripotent stem cells. These CRISPR-generated cellular models, with isogenic controls, provide a new way to study human disease and test drugs.\n\nGene drives may provide a powerful tool to restore balance of ecosystems by eliminating invasive species. Concerns regarding efficacy, unintended consequences in the target species as well as non-target species have been raised particularly in the potential for accidental release from laboratories into the wild. Scientists have proposed several safeguards for ensuring the containment of experimental gene drives including molecular, reproductive, and ecological. Many recommend that immunization and reversal drives be developed in tandem with gene drives in order to overwrite their effects if necessary. There remains consensus that long-term effects must be studied more thoroughly particularly in the potential for ecological disruption that cannot be corrected with reversal drives.\n\nCRISPR/Cas technology has been proposed as a treatment for multiple human diseases, especially those with a genetic cause. Its ability to modify specific DNA sequences makes it a tool with potential to fix disease-causing mutations. Early research in animal models suggest that therapies based on CRISPR technology have potential to treat a wide range of diseases, including cancer, beta-thalassemia, sickle cell disease, hemophilia, cystic fibrosis, Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, Huntington's, and heart disease.\n\nCRISPR/Cas-based \"RNA-guided nucleases\" can be used to target virulence factors, genes encoding antibiotic resistance and other medically relevant sequences of interest. This technology thus represents a novel form of antimicrobial therapy and a strategy by which to manipulate bacterial populations. Recent studies suggested a correlation between the interfering of the CRISPR/Cas locus and acquisition of antibiotic resistance This system provides protection of bacteria against invading foreign DNA, such as transposons, bacteriophages and plasmids. This system was shown to be a strong selective pressure for the acquisition of antibiotic resistance and virulence factor in bacterial pathogens. Some of the affected genes are tied to human diseases, including those involved in muscle differentiation, cancer, inflammation and fetal hemoglobin.\n\nResearch suggests that CRISPR is an effective way to limit replication of multiple herpesviruses. It was able to eradicate viral DNA in the case of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Anti-herpesvirus CRISPRs have promising applications such as removing cancer-causing EBV from tumor cells, helping rid donated organs for immunocompromised patients of viral invaders, or preventing cold sore outbreaks and recurrent eye infections by blocking HSV-1 reactivation. , these were awaiting testing. CRISPR is being applied to develop tissue-based treatments for cancer and other diseases.\n\nCRISPR may revive the concept of transplanting animal organs into people. Retroviruses present in animal genomes could harm transplant recipients. In 2015, a team eliminated 62 copies of a retrovirus's DNA from the pig genome in a kidney epithelial cell. Researchers recently demonstrated the ability to birth live pig specimens after removing these retroviruses from their genome using CRISPR for the first time.\n\nCRISPR may have applications in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine, such as by creating human blood vessels that lack expression of MHC class II proteins, which often cause transplant rejection.\n\n CRISPR had been studied in animal models and cancer cell lines, to learn if it can be used to repair or thwart mutated genes that cause cancer.\n\nThe first clinical trial involving CRISPR started in 2016. It involved removing immune cells from people with lung cancer, using CRISPR to edit out the gene expressed PD-1, then administrating the altered cells back to the same person. 20 other trials were under way or nearly ready, mostly in China, .\n\nIn 2016, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a clinical trial in which CRISPR would be used to alter T cells extracted from people with different kinds of cancer and then administer those engineered T cells back to the same people.\n\nIn May 2018, the company CRISPR Therapeutics received approval to start a clinical trial with a CRISPR-based treatment for the blood disorder beta-thalassemia, which is scheduled to start in late 2018.\n\nIn 2015, multiple studies attempted to systematically disable each individual human gene, in an attempt to identify which genes were essential to human biology. Between 1,600 and 1,800 genes passed this test—of the 20,000 or so known human genes. Such genes are more strongly activated, and unlikely to carry disabling mutations. They are more likely to have indispensable counterparts in other species. They build proteins that unite to form larger collaborative complexes. The studies also cataloged the essential genes in four cancer-cell lines and identified genes that are expendable in healthy cells, but crucial in specific tumor types and drugs that could target these rogue genes.\n\nThe specific functions of some 18 percent of the essential genes are unidentified. In one 2015 targeting experiment, disabling individual genes in groups of cells attempted to identify those involved in resistance to a melanoma drug. Each such gene manipulation is itself a separate \"drug\", potentially opening the entire genome to CRISPR-based regulation.\n\nUnenriched sequencing libraries often have abundant undesired sequences. Cas9 can specifically deplete the undesired sequences with double strand breakage with up to 99% efficiency and without significant off-target effects as seen with restriction enzymes. Treatment with Cas9 can deplete abundant rRNA while increasing pathogen sensitivity in RNA-seq libraries.\n\nCRISPR/Cas-9 can be used to edit the DNA of organisms \"in vivo\" and entire chromosomes can be eliminated from an organism at any point in its development. Chromosomes that have been deleted \"in vivo\" are the Y chromosomes and X chromosomes of adult lab mice and human chromosomes 14 and 21, in embryonic stem cell lines and aneuploid mice respectively. This method might be useful for treating genetic aneuploid diseases such as Down Syndrome and intersex disorders.\n\nSuccessful \"in vivo\" genome editing using CRISPR/Cas9 has been shown in several model organisms, such as \"Escherichia coli\", \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\", \"Candida albicans\", \"Caenorhadbitis elegans\", \"Arabidopsis\", \"Danio rerio\", \"Mus musculus\". Successes have been achieved in the study of basic biology, in the creation of disease models, and in the experimental treatment of disease models.\n\nConcerns have been raised that off-target effects (editing of genes besides the ones intended) may obscure the results of a CRISRP gene editing experiment (the observed phenotypic change may not be due to modifying the target gene, but some other gene). Modifications to CRISRP have been made to minimize the possibility of off-target effects. In addition, orthogonal CRISPR experiments are recommended to confirm the results of a gene editing experiment.\n\n, patent rights to CRISPR were contested. Several companies formed to develop related drugs and research tools. As companies ramp up financing, doubts as to whether CRISPR can be quickly monetized were raised. In February 2017 the US Patent Office ruled on a patent interference case brought by University of California with respect to patents issued to the Broad Institute, and found that the Broad patents, with claims covering the application of CRISPR/cas9 in eukaryotic cells, were distinct from the inventions claimed by University of California.\nShortly after, University of California filed an appeal of this ruling.\n\n, SAGE Labs (part of Horizon Discovery group) had exclusive rights from one of those companies to produce and sell genetically engineered rats and non-exclusive rights for mouse and rabbit models. , Thermo Fisher Scientific had licensed intellectual property from ToolGen to develop CRISPR reagent kits.\n\nIn March 2017, the European Patent Office (EPO) announced its intention to allow broad claims for editing all kinds of cells to Max-Planck Institute in Berlin, University of California, and University of Vienna, and in August 2017, the EPO announced its intention to allow CRISPR claims in a patent application that MilliporeSigma had filed. the patent situation in Europe was complex, with MilliporeSigma, ToolGen, Vilnius University, and Harvard contending for claims, along with University of California and Broad.\n\nAs of November 2018, All the CRISPR patent holders and institutes associated with them have set up companies to commercialize the patents by sub-licensing them for therapeutic, agriculture and many other application areas to biotech firms, pharmaceuticals, agri-businesses etc. Caribou Biosciences, ERS Genomics, Editas Medicine, Intellia Therapeutics, and CRISPR Therapeutics are the spin offs associated with CRISPR landscape. Not many large scale commercial assignees have actively participated in the early phases of the CRISPR–Cas patent landscape. The only large establishments making it to the top ten are Dow AgroSciences and DuPont Nutrition Science (now merged as DowDuPont), together holding 20 inventions in CRISPR-Cas9 applications in agriculture and animal biotechnology.\n\nAs of March 2015, multiple groups had announced ongoing research to learn how they one day might apply CRISPR to human embryos, including labs in the US, China, and the UK, as well as US biotechnology company OvaScience. Scientists, including a CRISPR co-discoverer, urged a worldwide moratorium on applying CRISPR to the human germline, especially for clinical use. They said \"scientists should avoid even attempting, in lax jurisdictions, germline genome modification for clinical application in humans\" until the full implications \"are discussed among scientific and governmental organizations\". These scientists support further low-level research on CRISPR and do not see CRISPR as developed enough for any clinical use in making heritable changes to humans.\n\nIn April 2015, Chinese scientists reported results of an attempt to alter the DNA of non-viable human embryos using CRISPR to correct a mutation that causes beta thalassemia, a lethal heritable disorder. The study had previously been rejected by both \"Nature\" and \"Science\" in part because of ethical concerns. The experiments resulted in successfully changing only some of the intended genes, and had off-target effects on other genes. The researchers stated that CRISPR is not ready for clinical application in reproductive medicine. In April 2016, Chinese scientists were reported to have made a second unsuccessful attempt to alter the DNA of non-viable human embryos using CRISPR - this time to alter the CCR5 gene to make the embryo HIV resistant.\n\nIn December 2015, an International Summit on Human Gene Editing took place in Washington under the guidance of David Baltimore. Members of national scientific academies of America, Britain and China discussed the ethics of germline modification. They agreed to support basic and clinical research under certain legal and ethical guidelines. A specific distinction was made between somatic cells, where the effects of edits are limited to a single individual, versus germline cells, where genome changes could be inherited by descendants. Heritable modifications could have unintended and far-reaching consequences for human evolution, genetically (e.g. gene/environment interactions) and culturally (e.g. Social Darwinism). Altering of gametocytes and embryos to generate inheritable changes in humans was defined to be irresponsible. The group agreed to initiate an international forum to address such concerns and harmonize regulations across countries.\n\nIn November 2018, He Jiankui announced that he had edited two human embryos, to attempt to disable the gene for CCR5, which codes for a receptor that HIV uses to enter cells. He said that twin girls, Lulu and Nana, had been born a few weeks earlier. He said that the girls still carried functional copies of CCR5 along with disabled CCR5 (mosaicism) and were still vulnerable to HIV. The work was widely condemned as unethical, dangerous, and premature.\n\nPolicy regulations for the CRISPR/cas9 system vary around the globe. In February 2016, British scientists were given permission by regulators to genetically modify human embryos by using CRISPR-Cas9 and related techniques. However, researchers were forbidden from implanting the embryos and the embryos were to be destroyed after seven days.\n\nThe US has an elaborate, interdepartmental regulatory system to evaluate new genetically modified foods and crops. For example, the Agriculture Risk Protection Act of 2000 gives the USDA the authority to oversee the detection, control, eradication, suppression, prevention, or retardation of the spread of plant pests or noxious weeds to protect the agriculture, environment and economy of the US. The act regulates any genetically modified organism that utilizes the genome of a predefined 'plant pest' or any plant not previously categorized. In 2015, Yinong Yang successfully deactivated 16 specific genes in the white button mushroom. Since he had not added any foreign DNA to his organism, the mushroom could not be regulated by the USDA under Section 340.2. Yang's white button mushroom was the first organism genetically modified with the Crispr/cas9 protein system to pass US regulation. In 2016, the USDA sponsored a committee to consider future regulatory policy for upcoming genetic modification techniques. With the help of the US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, special interests groups met on April 15 to contemplate the possible advancements in genetic engineering within the next 5 years and potential policy regulations that would need to come into play. With the emergence of rogue genetic engineers employing the technology, the FDA has begun issuing new regulations.\n\nIn China, where social conditions sharply contrast with the west, genetic diseases carry a heavy stigma. This leaves China with fewer policy barriers to the use of this technology.\n\nIn 2012, and 2013, CRISPR was a runner-up in \"Science Magazine\"'s Breakthrough of the Year award. In 2015, it was the winner of that award. CRISPR was named as one of \"MIT Technology Review\"s 10 breakthrough technologies in 2014 and 2016. In 2016, Jennifer Doudna, Emmanuelle Charpentier, along with Rudolph Barrangou, Philippe Horvath, and Feng Zhang won the Gairdner International award. In 2017, Jennifer Doudna and Emmanuelle Charpentier were awarded the Japan Prize for their revolutionary invention of CRISPR-Cas9 in Tokyo, Japan. In 2016, Emmanuelle Charpentier, Jennifer Doudna, and Feng Zhang won the Tang Prize in Biopharmaceutical Science.\n\n"}
{"id": "362652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362652", "title": "Carjacking", "text": "Carjacking\n\nCarjacking is a robbery in which the item taken over is a motor vehicle.\n\nThe word is a portmanteau of car and hijacking. The term was coined by EJ Mitchell, an editor with \"The Detroit News\". \"The News\" first used the term in a 1991 report on the murder of Ruth Wahl, a 22-year-old Detroit drugstore cashier who was killed when she would not surrender her Suzuki Sidekick, and in an investigative report examining the rash of what Detroit Police call \"robbery armed unlawful driving away an automobile\" [in dispatch slang shortened to R.A.-YOU-Da] plaguing Detroit.\n\nA study published in the \"British Journal of Criminology\" in 2003 found that \"for all of the media attention it has received in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, carjacking remains an under-researched and poorly understood crime.\" The study authors conducted semi-structured interviews with 28 active carjackers in St. Louis, Missouri, and based on these interviews concluded that \"the decision to commit a carjacking stems most directly from a situated interaction between particular sorts of perceived opportunities and particular sorts of perceived needs and desires, this decision is activated, mediated, and shaped by participation in urban street culture.\"\n\nA study published in the \"Journal of Contemporary Ethnography\" in 2013 noted that \"carjacking requires offenders to neutralize victims who are inherently mobile and who can use their vehicles as both weapons and shields.\" The study noted that carjackers use fear to compel compliance from victims. \n\nA 2008 paper by the Australian Institute of Criminology conceptualized carjackings as falling into four types based on method and motive: organized and instrumental, organized and acquisitive, opportunistic and instrumental, and opportunistic and acquisitive. An example of an \"organized and instrumental\" carjacking is a planned carjacking with a weapon to use the vehicle for ram an ATM to steal cash. An example of an \"organized and acquisitive\" carjacking is a planned carjacking to sell the vehicle in a known market. An example of an \"opportunistic and instrumental\" carjacking is a carjacking without a weapon to sell \"vehicle/parts with no market in mind.\" An example of an \"opportunistic and acquisitive\" carjacking is a carjacking without a weapon to joyride.\n\nA 2017 qualitative study published in \"Justice Quarterly\" examined auto theft and carjacking in the context of \"sanction threats\" that promoted fear and influenced \"crime preferences\" among criminals, thereby redirecting (\"channeling\") criminal activity. The study showed that \"auto thieves are reluctant to embrace the violence of carjacking due to concerns over sanction threat severity they attributed to carjacking—both formal (higher sentences) and informal (victim resistance and retaliation). Meanwhile, the carjackers are reticent to enact auto theft because of the more uncertain and putatively greater risk of being surprised by victims, a fear that appears to overcome the enhanced long-term formal penalty of taking a vehicle by force.\"\n\nCommon carjacking ruses include: (1) bumping the victim's vehicle from behind, and taking the car when the victim gets out of the vehicle to assess damage and exchange information; (2) staging a fake car accident, sometimes with injuries, and stealing the vehicle of a passerby who stops to assist; (3) flashing lights or waving to get the victim's attention, indicating that there is a problem with the victim's car, and then taking the car once the victim pulls over; and (4) following a victim home, blocking the victim's car in a driveway or in front of a gate.\n\nPolice departments, security agencies, and auto insurers have published lists of strategies for preventing and responding to carjackings. Common recommendations include:\n\nCarjacking is a significant problem in South Africa, where it is called \"hijacking\". South Africa is thought to have the highest carjacking rate in the world. There were 16,000 reported carjackings in 1998. The figures dropped to 12,434 reported carjackings in 2005, and continued to drop until the 2011-12, when the number of carjackings was 9,475, a record low. Subsequently, however, carjackings increased as part of an overall increase in violent organized crime, which the Institute for Security Studies attributed to poor police leadership. There were 11,221 reported carjackings in 2014. More than half of all carjackings in South Africa occurred in Gauteng province, which includes Johannesburg and Pretoria. \n\nThe carjacking issue in South Africa was depicted in the film \"Tsotsi\", which won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 2005. \n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, several new, unconventional anti-carjacking systems designed to harm the attacker were developed and marketed in South Africa, where carjacking had become endemic. Among these was the now defunct Blaster, a small flame-thrower that could be mounted to the underside of a vehicle.\n\nIn 1992, Congress, in the aftermath of a spate of violent carjackings (including some in which the victims were murdered), passed the Federal Anti-Car Theft Act of 1992 (FACTA), the first federal carjacking law, making it a federal crime (punishable by 15 years to life imprisonment) to use a firearm to steal \"through force or violence or intimidation\" a motor vehicle that had been shipped through interstate commerce. The 1992 Act, codified at 18 U.S.C. § 2119, took effect on October 25, 1992. However, only a small number of federal prosecutions were imposed for carjacking the year after the act was enacted, in part because many federal carjacking cases were turned over to state prosecutions because they do not meet U.S. Department of Justice criteria. The Federal Death Penalty Act, part of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, an omnibus crime bill, made sixty new federal crimes punishable by the federal death penalty; among these were the killing of a victim in the commission of carjacking.\n\nThroughout 1993, articles about carjackings appeared at the rate of more than one a week in newspapers throughout the country. The November 29, 1992, killing of two Osceola County, Florida men by carjackers using a stolen 9 mm pistol resulted in the first federal prosecution of a fatal carjacking.\n\nAccording to the National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) conducted by the U.S. Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Statistics, from 1993 to 2002, some 38,000 carjackings occurred annually. According to the survey, over this time period men were more often victims than women, blacks more than whites, and Hispanics more than non-Hispanics. 56% of carjackers were identified by victims as black, 21% white, 16% Asian or Native American, and 7% mixed race or unknown. Some 93% of carjackings occurred in urban areas. \n\nThere were multiple carjackers in 56% of incidents, and the carjacker or carjackers were identified as male in 93% of incidents. A weapon was used in 74% of carjacking victimization: firearms in 45%, knives in 11%, and other weapons in 18%. Victims were injured in about 32% of completed carjackings and about 17% of attempted carjackings. Serious injuries, such as gunshot or knife wounds, broken bones, or internal injuries occurred in about 9% of incidents. About 14 murders a year involved car theft, but not all of these were carjackings. There were multiple carjackers in 56% of incidents, and the carjacker or carjackers were identified as male in 93% of incidents. Some 68% of carjackings occurred at nighttime hours (6 p.m. to 6 a.m.). Some 98% of completed carjackings and 77% of attempted carjackings were reported to police. About 44% of carjacking incidents occurred in an open area (e.g., on the street or near public transportation) while 24% occurred in parking lots or garages or near commercial places (e.g., stores, gas stations, office buildings, restaurants/bars).\n\nAccording to the NCVS, from 1992 and 1996, about 49,000 completed or attempted nonfatal carjackings took place each year in the United States. The carjacking was successful in about half of incidents. Data on fatal carjackings are not available; \"about 27 homicides by strangers each year involved automobile theft,\" but not all of these were carjackings.\n\nCarjackings were common in Newark, New Jersey, in the 1990s, and a wave of carjackings took place again in 2010. There were 288 carjackings in the city in 2010 (a 70% increase from the previous year), and Essex County (which includes Newark) had 69 in December 2010 alone. The Associated Press reported that \"unlike previous carjackings, in which thieves would strip vehicles for parts or sell them in other states, the recent wave perplexed law enforcement officials because almost all appeared to be done by thrill-seeking young men who would steal the cars for a few hours, drive them around and then abandon them.\" After federal, state, and law enforcement agencies formed a task force, 42 suspects were charged, and carjackings dropped dramatically. However, national media attention on carjackings in Essex County returned in December 2013, when a Hoboken lawyer was murdered at The Mall at Short Hills in Millburn, New Jersey, while defending his wife from four assailants, who were all later convicted of the crime.\n\nThe major U.S. city with the highest rates of carjacking is Detroit. In 2008, Detroit had 1,231 carjackings, more than three a day. By 2013, that number had fallen to 701, but this was still the highest known number of carjackings for any major city in the country. The significant decrease in carjackings was credited to a coordinated effort by the Detroit Police Department, the FBI, and the local federal prosecutor's office. Serial carjackers were targeted for federal prosecutions and longer sentences, and in 2009 the Detroit Police Department centralized all carjacking investigations and developed a suspect profiling system. Through mid-November 2014, Detroit had 486 carjackings, down 31% from the year before, but this was still three times more than the carjackings experienced by New York City (which has ten times Detroit's population) in all of 2013. Even James Craig, chief of police of the Detroit Police Department, was the victim of an attempted carjacking while he was in his police cruiser.\n\nA 2017 study used \"Risk Terrain Modeling\" analysis to identify spatial indicators of carjacking risk in Detroit. The analysis identified six factors that \"were influential in the best fitting model: proximity to service stations; convenience/grocery/liquor stores; bus stops; residential and commercial demolitions; and areas with high concentrations of drug arrests and restaurants.\" The study found that certain locations in Detroit \"had an expected rate of carjacking that was 278 times higher than other locations.\"\n\nSome states have a specific carjacking statute. Other states do not have a specific carjacking law, and prosecute carjackers under the general robbery statute.\n\nThe law of some states, such as Louisiana, explicitly lists a killing in the course of defending oneself against forcible entry of an occupied motor vehicle as a justifiable homicide.\n\nCarjacking is an uncommon crime in Britain, making up about 1% of all vehicle thefts.\n\nAustralia does not specifically record the number of carjackings; such crimes are variously recorded as assault, robbery, motor vehicle theft, and some combination. However, a 2008 paper by the Australian Institute of Criminology, analyzing police and insurance records, suggested that fewer than 300 carjackings occur annually in Australia (about 0.5% of all theft incidents in the country). The paper noted that the low incidence of carjacking compared to the United States is attributable to the low overall of firearm-related crime overall in Australia and the fact that the \"broader socioeconomic picture of Australian society is one of relative good health in terms of wealth distribution and social cohesion\" providing little motivation for victimization that is \"both personal and violent.\" The paper notes that although carjacking was rare, isolated hot spots do arise occasionally, and that since the late 1990s, \"[Sydney]] has experienced a number of carjacking clusters ... each lasting around three to six months and occurring in different locations including the eastern suburbs, the inner city and the south-west.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28283894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28283894", "title": "Coin-operated-locker babies", "text": "Coin-operated-locker babies\n\nCoin-operated-locker babies or coin locker babies are infants left in public lockers, occurring primarily in Japan and China. The presumption is that such lockers are regularly checked by attendants and the infant will be found quickly; however, many children are found dead. Between 1980 and 1990, there were 191 reported cases of infants that died in coin-operated lockers, which represents about six percent of all infanticides during that period. In recent years, Osaka's government organized a group specifically designed to deal with the detection and protection of abused and neglected children. In 1993, they published a manual on how to deal with child abuse, but the Japanese judicial administration still uses old laws for abuse cases. The development of new laws is occurring in parts of the country now.\n\n"}
{"id": "44338818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44338818", "title": "Death of Barbara Precht", "text": "Death of Barbara Precht\n\nBarbara Rose Precht (née: Hess) (previously known as Pearl Lady) was a woman who was found dead in the Ohio River in 2006; she remained unidentified until 2014. The cause of her death is unknown; it may have been an accident, suicide, or homicide. Her husband, James, was located and arrested after she was identified. He was charged with lying to police about his identity.\n\nBarbara Precht was originally from the wealthy Hess family in Cincinnati; her father was the head of the local bar association and her uncle was a judge. She married her husband, James Precht, who was employed as a school supervisor, and had two daughters while living in Indian Hill, Ohio. One of her daughters recalled hearing individuals, presumably intruders, arguing with her parents one night and believed that they possibly were armed. This recollection was later confirmed by James after his arrest. The pair decided to flee Ohio in 1983 to California, where they lived under aliases. They eventually put their children up for adoption, likely for their protection and so that they would have \"better lives\".\n\nBarbara Precht's body was pulled from the Ohio River on 29 November 2006. She was found wearing makeup and jewelry, including two necklaces of pearl-like beads that led to her nickname. She wore a black blouse and skirt, white socks, gray shoes, and tan nylon pantyhose. After an autopsy, it was concluded that she had been deceased for approximately two days; no suspicious signs were noted. The then-unidentified woman had suffered from arthritis in various parts of her body and had a fair complexion with hazel eyes. Examiners also discovered that she had very well-maintained teeth, as she had only one dental filling.\n\nAlthough there were no obvious indications of foul play, she had suffered broken bones, including her ribs, when she had entered the river, indicating that she fell from some sort of height. Investigators published reports and various online databases detailed the case but never uncovered solid leads, which resulted in her identity remaining a mystery, along with many others in the United States. Many amateur sleuths on the Internet had expressed possible matches for the decedent, which has generally been a successful way toward identifying the unknown, but did not lead to finding Precht's identity. Other websites, such as The Doe Network, also attempted to assist with the identification of Precht.\n\nPrecht was identified after her fingerprints were compared to those taken years earlier after she had been arrested in 1986 in Covina, California for shoplifting groceries, while her family were living under assumed names. Her husband, James, aged 79, was arrested when he misinformed police of who he was when they approached him at his home, and had a bond set for $15,000. Although he never reported his wife missing, police say they do not plan to charge him in her death unless more evidence surfaces, as his whereabouts at the time of his wife's death are currently unknown. However, he has been described as a \"person of interest\". He and his wife had moved back to Ohio shortly before Barbara's death for unknown reasons.\n\nJames Precht's hearing took place on 2 December 2014 and his trial, lacking a jury, began on 4 December, two days later. During the trial, Precht pleaded guilty to a charge of disorderly conduct, which reduced consequences to twenty-five days in jail, the majority of which he had spent incarcerated. Prosecutors did, however, request that he be placed on probation, since he remains a person of interest in the case. During sentencing, Precht was sentenced to an additional four days in jail on top of the twenty-five days in jail.\n\n"}
{"id": "1221281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1221281", "title": "Diapause", "text": "Diapause\n\nDiapause, when referencing animal dormancy, is the delay in development in response to regularly and recurring periods of adverse environmental conditions. It is considered to be a physiological state of dormancy with very specific initiating and inhibiting conditions. Diapause is a mechanism used as a means to survive predictable, unfavorable environmental conditions, such as temperature extremes, drought, or reduced food availability. Diapause is most often observed in arthropods, especially insects, and in the embryos of many of the oviparous species of fish in the order Cyprinodontiformes.\n\nActivity levels of diapausing stages can vary considerably among species. Diapause may occur in a completely immobile stage, such as the pupae and eggs, or it may occur in very active stages that undergo extensive migrations, such as the adult monarch butterfly, \"Danaus plexippus\". In cases where the insect remains active, feeding is reduced and reproductive development is slowed or halted.\n\nDiapause in insects is a dynamic process consisting of several distinct phases. While diapause varies considerably from one taxon of insects to another, these phases can be characterized by particular sets of metabolic processes and responsiveness of the insect to certain environmental stimuli. Diapause can occur during any stage of development in arthropods, but each species exhibits diapause in specific phases of development. Reduced oxygen consumption is typical as is reduced movement and feeding. In \"Polistes exclamans\" only the queen is said to be able to undergo diapause.\n\nThe sensitive stage is the period when stimulus must occur to trigger diapause in the organism. Examples of sensitive stage/diapause periods in various insects:\n\nThe induction phase occurs at a genetically predetermined stage of life, and occurs well in advance of the environmental stress. This sensitive stage may occur within the lifetime of the diapausing individual, or in preceding generations, particularly in egg diapause. During this phase, insects are responsive to external cues called token stimuli, which trigger the switch from direct development pathways to diapause pathways. Token stimuli can consist of changes in photoperiod, thermoperiod, or allelochemicals from food plants. These stimuli are not in themselves favourable or unfavourable to development, but they herald an impending change in environmental conditions.\n\nThe preparation phase usually follows the induction phase, though insects may go directly from induction to initiation without a preparation phase. During this phase, insects accumulate and store molecules such as lipids, proteins, and carbohydrates. These molecules are used to maintain the insect throughout diapause and to provide fuel for development following diapause termination. Composition of the cuticle may be altered by changing hydrocarbon composition and by adding lipids to reduce water loss, making the organism resistant to desiccation.\nDiapausing puparia of the flesh fly, \"Sarcophaga crassipalpis\", increase the amount of cuticular hydrocarbons lining the puparium, effectively reducing the ability of water to cross the cuticle.\n\nPhotoperiod is the most important stimulus initiating diapause. The initiation phase begins when morphological development ceases. In some cases, this change may be very distinct and can involve moulting into a specific diapause stage, or be accompanied by color change. Enzymatic changes may take place in preparation for cold hardening. For example, only diapausing adults of the fire bug, \"Pyrrhocoris apterus\", have the enzymatic complement that allows them to accumulate polyhydric alcohols, molecules that help to lower their freezing points and thus avoid freezing. Insects may also undergo behavioural changes and begin to aggregate, migrate, or search for suitable overwintering sites.\n\nDuring the maintenance phase, insects experience lowered metabolism and developmental arrest is maintained. Sensitivity to certain stimuli which act to prevent termination of diapause, such as photoperiod and temperature, is increased. At this stage, insects are unresponsive to changes in the environment that will eventually trigger the end of diapause, but they grow more sensitive to these stimuli as time progresses.\n\nIn insects that undergo obligate diapause, termination may occur spontaneously, without any external stimuli. In facultative diapausers, token stimuli must occur to terminate diapause. These stimuli may include chilling, freezing, or contact with water, depending on the environmental conditions being avoided. These stimuli are important in preventing the insect from terminating diapause too soon, for instance in response to warm weather in late fall. In the Edith's checkerspot butterfly, individuals must receive enough sunlight in order to terminate the diapause stage and become a fully grown butterfly. Termination may occur at the height of unfavourable conditions, such as in the middle of winter. Over time, depth of diapause slowly decreases until direct development can resume, if conditions are favourable.\n\nDiapause frequently ends prior to the end of unfavourable conditions and is followed by a state of quiescence from which the insect can arouse and begin direct development, should conditions change to become more favourable. This allows the insect to continue to withstand harsh conditions while being ready to take advantage of good conditions as rapidly as possible.\n\nDiapause in insects is regulated at several levels. Environmental stimuli interact with genetic pre-programming to affect neuronal signalling, endocrine pathways, and, eventually, metabolic and enzymatic changes.\n\nEnvironmental regulators of diapause generally display a characteristic seasonal pattern. In temperate regions, photoperiod is the most reliable cues of seasonal change. Depending on the season in which diapause occurs, either short or long days can act as token stimuli. Insects may also respond to changing day length as well as relative day length. Temperature may also act as a regulating factor, either by inducing diapause or, more commonly, by modifying the response of the insect to photoperiod. Insects may respond to thermoperiod, the daily fluctuations of warm and cold that correspond with night and day, as well as to absolute or cumulative temperature. This is has been observed in many moth species including the indian mealmoth, where individuals diapause in different developmental stages due to environmental temperature. Food availability and quality may also help regulate diapause. In the desert locust, \"Schistocerca gregaria\", a plant hormone called gibberellin stimulates reproductive development. During the dry season, when their food plants are in senescence and lacking gibberellin, the locusts remain immature and their reproductive tracts do not develop.\n\nThe neuroendocrine system of insects consists primarily of neurosecretory cells in the brain, the corpora cardiaca, corpora allata and the prothoracic glands. There are several key hormones involved in the regulation of diapause: juvenile hormone (JH), diapause hormone (DH), and prothoracicotropic hormone (PTTH).\n\nProthoracicotropic hormone stimulates the prothoracic glands to produce ecdysteroids that are required to promote development. Larval and pupal diapauses are often regulated by an interruption of this connection, either by preventing release of prothoracicotropic hormone from the brain or by failure of the prothoracic glands to respond to prothoracicotropic hormone.\n\nThe corpora allata is responsible for the production of juvenile hormone (JH). In the bean bug, \"Riptortus pedestris\", clusters of neurons on the protocerebrum called the pars lateralis maintain reproductive diapause by inhibiting JH production by the corpora allata. Adult diapause is often associated with the absence of JH, while larval diapause is often associated with its presence.\n\nIn adults, absence of JH causes degeneration of flight muscles and atrophy or cessation of development of reproductive tissues, and halts mating behaviour. The presence of JH in larvae may prevent moulting to the next larval instar, though successive stationary moults may still occur. In the corn borer, \"Diatraea gradiosella\", JH is required for the accumulation by the fat body of a storage protein that is associated with diapause.\n\nDiapause hormone regulates embryonic diapause in the eggs of the silkworm moth, \"Bombyx mori\". DH is released from the subesophageal ganglion of the mother and triggers trehalase production by the ovaries. This generates high levels of glycogen in the eggs, which is converted into the polyhydric alcohols glycerol and sorbitol. Sorbitol directly inhibits the development of the embryos. Glycerol and sorbitol are reconverted into glycogen at the termination of diapause.\n\nDiapause in the tropics is often initiated in response to biotic rather than abiotic components. For example, food in the form of vertebrate carcasses may be more abundant following dry seasons, or oviposition sites in the form of fallen trees may be more available following rainy seasons. Also, diapause may serve to synchronize mating seasons or reduce competition, rather than to avoid unfavourable climatic conditions.\n\nDiapause in the tropics poses several challenges to insects that are not faced in temperate zones. Insects must reduce their metabolism without the aid of cold temperatures and may be faced with increased water loss due to high temperatures. While cold temperatures inhibit the growth of fungi and bacteria, diapausing tropical insects still have to deal with these pathogens. Also, predators and parasites may still be abundant during the diapause period.\n\nAggregations are common among diapausing tropical insects, especially in the orders Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and Hemiptera. Aggregations may be used as protection against predation, since aggregating species are frequently toxic and predators quickly learn to avoid them. They can also serve to reduce water loss, as seen in the fungus beetle, \"Stenotarsus rotundus\", which forms aggregations of up to 70,000 individuals, which may be eight beetles deep. Relative humidity is increased within the aggregations and beetles experience less water loss, probably due to decreased surface area to volume ratios reducing evaporative water loss.\n\n"}
{"id": "8375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8375", "title": "Draugr", "text": "Draugr\n\nThe draugr or draug (, plural ; modern , and Danish, Swedish, and ) is an undead creature from Norse mythology, also called , literally \"again-walker\" ().\n\nThe word \"draugr\" can be traced to a Proto-Indo European stem \"*\" \"phantom\", from \"*\" \"deceive\".\nThe Old Norse meaning of the word is a revenant. In Swedish, \"draug\" is a modern loan word from West Norse, as the native Swedish form \"drög\" has acquired the meaning of \"a pale, ineffectual, and slow-minded person that drags himself along\".\n\nThe will appears to be strong, strong enough to draw the \"hugr\" [animate will] back to one's body. These reanimated individuals were known as \"draugar\". However, though the dead might live again, they could also die again. \"Draugar\" die a \"second death\" as Chester Gould calls it, when their bodies decay, are burned, dismembered or otherwise destroyed.\n\nDraugar live in their graves, often guarding treasure buried with them in their burial mound. They are animated corpses with a corporeal body, unlike ghosts, with similar physical abilities as in life. Older literature makes clear distinctions between sea-draugar and land-draugar.\n\nDraugar possess superhuman strength, can increase their size at will, and carry the unmistakable stench of decay. According to Gregg Smith, \"The appearance of a \"draugr\" was that of a dead body: swollen, blackened and generally hideous to look at.\" They are undead figures from Norse and Icelandic mythology which appear to retain some semblance of intelligence. They exist to guard their treasure, wreak havoc on living beings, or torment those who wronged them in life. The draugr's ability to increase its size also increased its weight, and the body of the draugr was described as being extremely heavy. Thorolf of Eyrbyggja saga was \"uncorrupted, and with an ugly look about him… swollen to the size of an ox,\" and his body was so heavy that it could not be raised without levers. They are also noted for the ability to rise from the grave as wisps of smoke and \"swim\" through solid rock. \n\nIn folklore, draugar slay their victims through various methods including crushing them with their enlarged forms, devouring their flesh, devouring them whole in their enlarged forms, indirectly killing them by driving them mad, and by drinking their blood. Animals feeding near the grave of a draugr might be driven mad by the creature's influence. They may also die from being driven mad. Thorolf, for example, caused birds to drop dead when they flew over his bowl barrow.\n\nThe draugr's victims were not limited to trespassers in its home. The roaming undead decimated livestock by running the animals to death either by riding them or pursuing them in some hideous, half-flayed form. Shepherds' duties kept them outdoors at night, and they were particular targets for the hunger and hatred of the undead:\nDraugar are noted for having numerous magical abilities (referred to as \"trollskap\") resembling those of living witches and wizards, such as shape-shifting, controlling the weather, and seeing into the future. A draugr can change into a seal, a great flayed bull, a grey horse with a broken back but no ears or tail, and a cat that would sit upon a sleeper's chest and grow steadily heavier until the victim suffocated. The draugr Þráinn (Thrain) shape-shifted into a cat-like creature (\"kattakyn\") in \"Hrómundar saga Gripssonar\":\nDraugar have the ability to enter into the dreams of the living, and they will frequently leave a gift behind so that \"the living person may be assured of the tangible nature of the visit\". Draugar also have the ability to curse a victim, as shown in the Grettis saga, where Grettir is cursed to be unable to become any stronger. Draugar also brought disease to a village and could create temporary darkness in daylight hours. They preferred to be active during the night, although it did not appear to be vulnerable to sunlight like some other revenants. Draugr can also kill people with bad luck.\n\nA draugr's presence might be shown by a great light that glowed from the mound like foxfire. This fire would form a barrier between the land of the living and the land of the dead. The draugr could also move magically through the earth, swimming through solid stone as does Killer-Hrapp:\n\nSome draugar are immune to weapons, and only a hero has the strength and courage needed to stand up to so formidable an opponent. In legends, the hero would often have to wrestle the draugr back to his grave, thereby defeating him, since weapons would do no good. A good example of this is found in \"Hrómundar saga Gripssonar\". Iron could injure a draugr, as is the case with many supernatural creatures, although it would not be sufficient to stop it. Sometimes the hero is required to dispose of the body in unconventional ways. The preferred method is to cut off the draugr's head, burn the body, and dump the ashes in the sea—the emphasis being on making absolutely sure that the draugr was dead and gone.\n\nThe draugar were said to be either \"hel-blár\" (\"death-blue\") or \"nár-fölr\" (\"corpse-pale\"). The death-blue color was not actually grey but was a dark blue or maroon hue which covered the entire body. Glámr, the undead shepherd of \"Grettis saga\", was reported to be dark blue, and Laxdæla saga describes how bones were dug up belonging to a dead sorceress who had appeared in dreams, and they were \"blue and evil looking.\"\n\nThe resting place of the draugr was a tomb which they were able to leave during the night to visit the living. Such visits are supposed to be horrible events that often end in death for one or more of the living, which would then warrant the exhumation of the draugr by a hero.\n\nThe draugr's motivation was primarily jealousy and greed. Greed causes it to viciously attack any would-be grave robbers, but the draugr also expresses an innate jealousy of the living stemming from a longing for the things of life which it once had. They also exhibit an immense and nearly insatiable appetite, as shown in the encounter of Aran and Asmund, sword brothers who made an oath that, if one should die, the other would sit vigil with him for three days inside the burial mound. When Aran died, Asmund brought his own possessions into the barrow—banners, armor, hawk, hound, and horse—then set himself to wait the three days:\n\nThe main indication that a deceased person will become a draugr is that the corpse is not in a horizontal position but is found in an upright or sitting position, indicating that the dead might return. Any mean, nasty, or greedy person can become a draugr. As Ármann notes, \"most medieval Icelandic ghosts are evil or marginal people. If not dissatisfied or evil, they are unpopular\".\n\nTraditionally, a pair of open iron scissors was placed on the chest of the recently deceased, and straws or twigs might be hidden among their clothes. The big toes were tied together or needles were driven through the soles of the feet in order to keep the dead from being able to walk. Tradition also held that the coffin should be lifted and lowered in three different directions as it was carried from the house to confuse a possible draugr's sense of direction.\n\nThe most effective means of preventing the return of the dead was believed to be a corpse door, a special door through which the corpse was carried feet-first with people surrounding it so that the corpse couldn't see where it was going. The door was then bricked up to prevent a return. It is speculated that this belief began in Denmark and spread throughout the Norse culture, founded on the idea that the dead could only leave through the way they entered.\n\nIn \"Eyrbyggja saga\", draugar are driven off by holding a \"door-doom\". One by one, they are summoned to the door-doom and given judgment and forced out of the home by this legal method. The home was then purified with holy water to ensure that they never came back.\n\nA variation of the draugr is the \"haugbui\" (from Old Norse \"haugr\"' \"howe, barrow, tumulus\") which was a mound-dweller, the dead body living on within its tomb. The notable difference between the two was that the haugbui is unable to leave its grave site and only attacks those who trespass upon their territory.\n\nThe haugbui was rarely found far from its burial place and is a type of undead commonly found in Norse sagas. The creature is said to either swim alongside boats or sail around them in a partially submerged vessel, always on their own. In some accounts, witnesses portray them as shapeshifters who take on the appearance of seaweed or moss-covered stones on the shoreline.\n\nOne of the best-known draugar is Glámr, who is defeated by the hero in \"Grettis saga\". After Glámr dies on Christmas Eve, \"people became aware that Glámr was not resting in peace. He wrought such havoc that some people fainted at the sight of him, while others went out of their minds\". After a mundane battle, Grettir eventually gets Glámr on his back. Just before Grettir kills him, Glámr curses Grettir because \"Glámr was endowed with more evil force than most other ghosts\", and thus he was able to speak and leave Grettir with his curse after his death.\n\nA somewhat ambivalent, alternative view of the draugr is presented by the example of Gunnar Hámundarson in \"Njáls saga\": \"It seemed as though the howe was agape, and that Gunnar had turned within the howe to look upwards at the moon. They thought that they saw four lights within the howe, but not a shadow to be seen. Then they saw that Gunnar was merry, with a joyful face.\"\n\nIn the \"Eyrbyggja saga\", a shepherd is assaulted by a blue-black draugr. The shepherd's neck is broken during the ensuing scuffle. The shepherd rises the next night as a draugr.\n\nIn more recent Scandinavian folklore, the draug (the modern spelling used in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden) is often identified with the spirits of mariners drowned at sea. The creature is said to possess a distinctly human form, with the exception that its head is composed entirely of seaweed. In other tellings, the draug is described as being a headless fisherman, dressed in oilskin and sailing in half a boat (the Norwegian municipality of Bø, Nordland has the half-boat in its coat-of-arms). This trait is common in the northernmost part of Norway, where life and culture was based on fishing more than anywhere else. The reason for this may be that the fishermen often drowned in great numbers, and the stories of restless dead coming in from sea were more common up north than anywhere else in the country.\n\nA recorded legend from Trøndelag tells how a cadaver lying on a beach became the object of a quarrel between the two types of draug (headless and seaweed-headed). A similar source even tells of a third type, the \"gleip\", known to hitch themselves to sailors walking ashore and make them slip on the wet rocks.\n\nBut, though the draug usually presages death, there is an amusing account in Northern Norway of a northerner who managed to outwit him:\n\nThe modern and popular connection between the draug and the sea can be traced back to authors like Jonas Lie and Regine Nordmann, whose works include several books of fairy tales, as well as the drawings of Theodor Kittelsen, who spent some years living in Svolvær. Up north, the tradition of sea-draugs is especially vivid.\n\nArne Garborg describes land-draugs coming fresh from the graveyards, and the term \"draug\" is even used of vampires. The notion of draugs who live in the mountains is present in the poetic works of Henrik Ibsen (\"Peer Gynt\"), and Aasmund Olavsson Vinje. The Nynorsk translation of \"The Lord of the Rings\" used the term for both Nazgûl and the dead men of Dunharrow. Tolkien's Barrow-Wights bear obvious similarity to, and were inspired by the haugbui.\n\nThe term \"draug\" has come to be used to describe any type of revenant in Nordic folklore.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25881839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25881839", "title": "Entropic gravity", "text": "Entropic gravity\n\nEntropic gravity, also known as emergent gravity, is a theory in modern physics that describes gravity as an \"entropic force\"—a force with macro-scale homogeneity but which is subject to quantum-level disorder—and not a fundamental interaction. The theory, based on string theory, black hole physics, and quantum information theory, describes gravity as an \"emergent\" phenomenon that springs from the quantum entanglement of small bits of spacetime information. As such, entropic gravity is said to abide by the second law of thermodynamics under which the entropy of a physical system tends to increase over time.\n\nAt its simplest, the theory holds that when gravity becomes vanishingly weak—levels seen only at interstellar distances—it diverges from its classically understood nature and its strength begins to decay \"linearly with distance\" from a mass.\n\nEntropic gravity provides the underlying framework to explain Modified Newtonian Dynamics, or MOND, which holds that at a gravitational acceleration threshold of approximately m/s², gravitational strength begins to vary \"inversely\" (linearly) with distance from a mass rather than the normal inverse-square law of the distance. This is an exceedingly low threshold, measuring only 12 trillionths gravity’s strength at earth’s surface; an object dropped from a height of one meter would fall for 36 hours were earth’s gravity this weak. It is also 3,000 times less than exists at the point where crossed our solar system’s heliopause and entered interstellar space.\n\nThe theory claims to be consistent with both the macro-level observations of Newtonian gravity as well as Einstein's theory of general relativity and its gravitational distortion of spacetime. Importantly, the theory also explains (without invoking the existence of dark matter and its accompanying math featuring new free parameters that are tweaked to obtain the desired outcome) why galactic rotation curves differ from the profile expected with visible matter.\n\nThe theory of entropic gravity posits that what has been interpreted as unobserved dark matter is the product of quantum effects that can be regarded as a form of \"positive dark energy\" that lifts the vacuum energy of space from its ground state value. A central tenet of the theory is that the positive dark energy leads to a thermal-volume law contribution to entropy that overtakes the area law of anti-de Sitter space precisely at\nthe cosmological horizon.\n\nThe theory has been controversial within the physics community but has sparked research and experiments to test its validity.\n\nThe thermodynamic description of gravity has a history that goes back at least to research on black hole thermodynamics by Bekenstein and Hawking in the mid-1970s. These studies suggest a deep connection between gravity and thermodynamics, which describes the behavior of heat. In 1995, Jacobson demonstrated that the Einstein field equations describing relativistic gravitation can be derived by combining general thermodynamic considerations with the equivalence principle. Subsequently, other physicists, most notably Thanu Padmanabhan, began to explore links between gravity and entropy.\n\nIn 2009, Erik Verlinde proposed a conceptual model that describes gravity as an entropic force. He argues (similar to Jacobson's result) that gravity is a consequence of the \"information associated with the positions of material bodies\". This model combines the thermodynamic approach to gravity with Gerard 't Hooft's holographic principle. It implies that gravity is not a fundamental interaction, but an emergent phenomenon which arises from the statistical behavior of microscopic degrees of freedom encoded on a holographic screen. The paper drew a variety of responses from the scientific community. Andrew Strominger, a string theorist at Harvard said \"Some people have said it can't be right, others that it's right and we already knew it — that it’s right and profound, right and trivial.\"\n\nIn July 2011, Verlinde presented the further development of his ideas in a contribution to the Strings 2011 conference, including an explanation for the origin of dark matter.\n\nVerlinde's article also attracted a large amount of media exposure, and led to immediate follow-up work in cosmology, the dark energy hypothesis, cosmological acceleration, cosmological inflation, and loop quantum gravity. Also, a specific microscopic model has been proposed that indeed leads to entropic gravity emerging at large scales. Entropic gravity can emerge from quantum entanglement of local Rindler horizons.\n\nThe law of gravitation is derived from classical statistical mechanics applied to the holographic principle, that states that the description of a volume of space can be thought of as formula_1 bits of binary information, encoded on a boundary to that region, a closed surface of area formula_2. The information is evenly distributed on the surface with each bit requiring an area equal to formula_3, the so-called \"Planck area\", from which formula_1 can thus be computed:\n\nwhere formula_6 is the Planck length. The Planck length is defined as:\n\nwhere formula_8 is the universal gravitational constant, formula_9 is the speed of light, and formula_10 is the reduced Planck constant. When substituted in the equation for formula_1 we find:\n\nThe statistical equipartition theorem defines the temperature formula_13 of a system with formula_1 degrees of freedom in terms of its energy formula_15 such that:\n\nwhere formula_17 is the Boltzmann constant. This is the equivalent energy for a mass formula_18 according to:\n\nThe effective temperature experienced due to a uniform acceleration in a vacuum field according to the Unruh effect is:\n\nwhere formula_21 is that acceleration, which for a mass formula_22 would be attributed to a force formula_23 according to Newton's second law of motion:\n\nTaking the holographic screen to be a sphere of radius formula_25, the surface area would be given by:\n\nFrom algebraic substitution of these into the above relations, one derives from first principles Newton's law of universal gravitation:\n\nEntropic gravity, as proposed by Verlinde in his original article, reproduces the Einstein field equations and, in a Newtonian approximation, a 1/r potential for gravitational forces. Since its results do not differ from Newtonian gravity except in regions of extremely small gravitational fields, testing the theory with earth-based laboratory experiments doesn’t appear feasible. Spacecraft-based experiments performed at Lagrangian points within our solar system would be expensive and challenging.\n\nEven so, entropic gravity in its current form has been severely challenged on formal grounds. Matt Visser has shown that the attempt to model conservative forces in the general Newtonian case (i.e. for arbitrary potentials and an unlimited number of discrete masses) leads to unphysical requirements for the required entropy and involves an unnatural number of temperature baths of differing temperatures. Visser concludes:\nFor the derivation of Einstein's equations from an entropic gravity perspective, Tower Wang shows that the inclusion of energy-momentum conservation and cosmological homogeneity and isotropy requirements severely restrict a wide class of potential modifications of entropic gravity, some of which have been used to generalize entropic gravity beyond the singular case of an entropic model of Einstein's equations. Wang asserts that:\nCosmological observations using available technology can be used to test the theory. On the basis of lensing by the galaxy cluster Abell 1689, Nieuwenhuizen concludes that EG is strongly ruled out unless additional (dark) matter like eV neutrinos is added. A team from Leiden Observatory statistically observing the lensing effect of gravitational fields at large distances from the centers of more than 33,000 galaxies, found that those gravitational fields were consistent with Verlinde's theory. Using conventional gravitational theory, the fields implied by these observations (as well as from measured galaxy rotation curves) could only be ascribed to a particular distribution of dark matter.\n\nIn June 2017, a study by Princeton University researcher Kris Pardo asserted that Verlinde's theory is inconsistent with the observed rotation velocities of dwarf galaxies.\n\nSabine Hossenfelder argues that \"one should interpret these studies with caution\" because \"approximations must be made to arrive at [the tested] equation[s]\" and it's not yet clear that the approximations are themselves correct.\n\nAnother criticism of entropic gravity is that entropic processes should, as critics argue, break quantum coherence. Experiments with ultra-cold neutrons in the gravitational field of Earth are claimed to show that neutrons lie on discrete levels exactly as predicted by the Schrödinger equation considering the gravitation to be a conservative potential field without any decoherent factors. Archil Kobakhidze argues that this result disproves entropic gravity. Luboš Motl gives explanations of this position in his blog, while Chaichian et al. suggest a potential loophole in the argument in weak gravitational fields such as those affecting Earth-bound experiments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18298779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18298779", "title": "Ephraim Bell Muttart", "text": "Ephraim Bell Muttart\n\nEphraim Bell Muttart (March 7, 1839 – June 26, 1912) was a physician and political figure in Prince Edward Island, Canada. He represented King's County in the House of Commons of Canada from 1878 to 1882 as a Conservative member.\n\nHe was born in Cape Traverse, Prince Edward Island, the son of John Muttart, of German origin, and Elizabeth Bell, a Scottish immigrant. Muttart was educated in P.E.I., in Sackville, New Brunswick and at Harvard University, receiving his M.D. there in 1861. Muttart set up practice in Souris. In 1863, he married a Miss McDonald. Muttart also was coroner and was medical referee for the Standard and Canada Life Assurance companies. He was unsuccessful in bids for reelection in 1882 and 1887. He died in Souris, Prince Edward Island in 1912.\n\n"}
{"id": "5449624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5449624", "title": "Felix Baumgartner", "text": "Felix Baumgartner\n\nFelix Baumgartner (; born 20 April 1969) is an Austrian skydiver, daredevil, and BASE jumper. He is best known for jumping to Earth from a helium balloon in the stratosphere on 14 October 2012. Doing so, he set world records for skydiving an estimated , reaching an estimated top speed of , or Mach 1.25. He became the first person to break the sound barrier without vehicular power relative to the surface on his descent. He broke skydiving records for exit altitude, vertical freefall distance without drogue, and vertical speed without drogue. Though he still holds the two latter records, the first was broken two years later, when on 24 October 2014, Alan Eustace jumped from 135,890 feet—or, with a drogue.\n\nBaumgartner is also renowned for the particularly dangerous nature of the stunts he has performed during his career. Baumgartner spent time in the Austrian military where he practiced parachute jumping, including training to land on small target zones.\n\nFelix Baumgartner was born first of two boys on 20 April 1969 (his brother is Gerard), in Salzburg, Austria. As a child, he dreamed about flying and skydiving. In 1999, he claimed the world record for the highest parachute jump from a building when he jumped from the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. On 20 July 2003, Baumgartner became the first person to skydive across the English Channel using a specially made carbon fiber wing. Alban Geissler, who developed the SKYRAY carbon fiber wing with Christoph Aarns, suggested after Baumgartner's jump that the wing he used was a copy of two prototype SKYRAY wings sold to Red Bull (Baumgartner's sponsor) two years earlier.\n\nBaumgartner also set the world record for the lowest BASE jump ever, when he jumped from the hand of the \"Christ the Redeemer\" statue in Rio de Janeiro. This jump also stirred controversy among BASE jumpers who pointed out that Baumgartner cited the height of the statue as the height of the jump even though he landed on a slope below the statue's feet, and that other BASE jumpers had previously jumped from the statue but avoided publicity.\n\nHe became the first person to BASE jump from the completed Millau Viaduct in France on 27 June 2004 and the first person to skydive onto, then BASE jump from, the Turning Torso building in Malmö, Sweden, on 18 August 2006. On 12 December 2007, he became the first person to jump from the 91st floor observation deck of the then-tallest completed building in the world, Taipei 101 in Taipei, Taiwan.\n\nIn January 2010, it was reported that Baumgartner was working with a team of scientists and sponsor Red Bull to attempt the highest sky-dive on record.\n\nOn 15 March 2012, Baumgartner completed the first of 2 test jumps from . During the jump, he spent approximately 3 minutes and 43 seconds in free fall, reaching speeds of more than , before opening his parachute. In total, the jump lasted approximately eight minutes and eight seconds and Baumgartner became the third person to safely parachute from a height of over .\n\nOn 25 July 2012, Baumgartner completed the second of two planned test jumps from . It took Baumgartner about 90 minutes to reach the target altitude and his free fall was estimated to have lasted three minutes and 48 seconds before his parachutes were deployed.\n\nThe launch was originally scheduled for 9 October 2012 but was aborted due to adverse weather conditions. Launch was rescheduled and the mission instead took place on 14 October 2012 when Baumgartner landed in eastern New Mexico after jumping from a then world-record and falling a record distance of ; the altitude record was broken by Alan Eustace in 2014. Baumgartner also set the record for fastest speed of free fall at , making him the first human to break the sound barrier outside a vehicle. Baumgartner was in free fall for 4 minutes and 19 seconds, 17 seconds short of mentor Joseph Kittinger's 1960 jump.\n\nBaumgartner initially struggled with claustrophobia after spending time in the pressurized suit required for the jump, but overcame it with help from a sports psychologist and other specialists.\n\nIn 2014, Baumgartner decided to join Audi Motorsport to drive an Audi R8 LMS for the 2014 24 Hours of Nurburgring after racing Volkswagen Polos in 2013. He underwent another intense physical and driver training session to prepare him for the race. He helped the team to a 9th place overall finish.\n\nIn October 2012, when Baumgartner was asked in an interview with the Austrian newspaper \"Kleine Zeitung\" whether a political career was an option for his future life, he stated that the \"example of Arnold Schwarzenegger\" showed, that \"you can't move anything in a democracy\" and that he would opt for a \"moderate dictatorship [...] led by experienced personalities coming from the private (sector of the) economy\". He finally stated he \"didn't want to get involved in politics.\"\n\nOn 6 November 2012, Baumgartner was convicted of battery and was fined €1500 after slapping the face of a Greek truck driver, following a petty argument between the two men.\n\nIn January 2016, Baumgartner provoked a stir of critical news coverage in his home country after posting several critical remarks against refugees and recommending the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for the Nobel Peace Prize. Later on, Baumgartner endorsed the presidential candidate of the right-wing populist Freedom Party of Austria, Norbert Hofer. On 13 July 2016, Facebook deleted his fan page of 1.5 million fans. Baumgartner subsequently claimed that he must have become \"too uncomfortable\" for \"political elites\".\n\nAfter Austrian authorities refused to grant sports tax breaks to Baumgartner, he moved to Arbon, Switzerland, whereupon his house in Salzburg and his helicopter were seized.\n\nBaumgartner dated \"Playboy\" German playmate of the century Gitta Saxx. Later he was engaged to Nicole Öttl, a model and former beauty queen (\"Miss Lower Austria 2006\"). They broke up in 2013.\n\nHis mother is named Eva, and he has one brother, Gerald Baumgartner. Since 2014, he has been in a relationship with Romanian television presenter Mihaela Rădulescu.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "364888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364888", "title": "Gemini 8", "text": "Gemini 8\n\nGemini 8 (officially Gemini VIII) was the sixth manned spaceflight in NASA's Gemini program. The mission conducted the first docking of two spacecraft in orbit, but suffered the first critical in-space system failure of a U.S. spacecraft which threatened the lives of the astronauts and required immediate abort of the mission. The crew was returned to Earth safely. The only other time this happened was on the flight of Apollo 13.\n\nIt was the twelfth manned American flight and the twenty-second manned spaceflight of all time [including two X-15 flights over ]. Command pilot Neil Armstrong's flight marked the second time a U.S. civilian flew into space (Joseph Albert Walker became the first U.S. civilian on X-15 Flight 90). Armstrong had resigned his commission in the United States Naval Reserve in 1960. The Soviet Union had launched the first civilian, Valentina Tereshkova (also the first woman), aboard Vostok 6 on June 16, 1963.\n\n This would become the prime crew on Gemini 11.\n\n\n\nMarch 16, 1966\n\nGemini VIII was planned to be a three-day mission. After being launched into an orbit, on the fourth revolution it was to rendezvous and dock with an Agena target vehicle, which had been earlier launched into a circular orbit. This was to be the first space docking in history. Four separate dockings were planned.\n\nDuring the first docking, Pilot David Scott was planned to perform an ambitious, two-hour-and-10-minute extra-vehicular activity (EVA), which would have been the first since Ed White's June 1965 spacewalk on Gemini IV. On a tether for one and a half revolutions around the Earth, Scott would have retrieved a nuclear emulsion radiation experiment from the front of the Gemini's spacecraft adapter, then activate a micrometeoroid experiment on the Agena. Then he was to move back to the Gemini and test a minimum-reaction power tool by loosening and tightening bolts on a work panel.\n\nDuring the EVA, after Armstrong undocked from the Agena, Scott was to don and test an Extravehicular Support Pack (ESP) stored at the back of the spacecraft adapter. This was a backpack with a self-contained oxygen supply, extra Freon propellant for his Hand Held Maneuvering Unit, and a extension to his tether. He would practice several maneuvers in formation with the Gemini and Agena vehicles (separated at distances up to , in concert with Armstrong in the Gemini. Scott never got to perform this EVA, due to the aborting of the flight because of a critical in-flight emergency which occurred shortly after docking.\n\nThe flight also carried an additional three scientific, four technological, and one medical experiment.\n\nFive months earlier, NASA had launched an Agena Target Vehicle for Gemini 6, but the Atlas-Agena launch failed when the Agena's engine exploded during orbital injection and the mission had to be rescheduled. This time, everything worked perfectly; the Agena put itself into a 298 kilometer circular orbit and oriented itself to the correct attitude for the docking. The Gemini spacecraft itself was launched into a 160 by 272 kilometer orbit by a modified Titan II on March 16, 1966 (coincidentally the 40th anniversary of the launch of the world's first liquid-fueled rocket by Dr. Robert H. Goddard), at 10:41:02 a.m. EST. Gemini 8's launch was nominal and no significant anomalies occurred with either the Titan II or the spacecraft. \n\nTheir first course adjustment was made at one hour and 34 minutes into the mission, when the astronauts lowered their apogee slightly with a five-second Orbit Attitude and Maneuvering System (OAMS) thruster burn. The second adjustment was made near apogee of the second orbit, and raised both the apogee and perigee by adding to their speed. The third adjustment was made over the Pacific Ocean, a southward orbital plane change, made with a sideways thruster burn. When they were over Mexico, Jim Lovell, the Houston capsule communicator, told them they needed one last correction, a speed addition.\n\nThe rendezvous radar acquired the Agena Target Vehicle at a distance of . At 3 hours, 48 minutes and 10 seconds into the mission they performed another burn that put them in a circular orbit below the Agena. They first sighted it when they were away, and at they gave the computer automatic control.\n\nAfter several small burns they were away and with no relative velocity. After 30 minutes of visually inspecting the Agena to make sure that it had not been damaged by the launch, they were given the go for docking. Armstrong started to move towards the Agena at 3.15 inches (8 centimeters) per second. In a matter of minutes, the Agena's docking latches clicked and a green light indicated that the docking had been successfully completed. \"Flight, we are docked! Yes, it's really a smoothie,\" Scott radioed to the ground.\n\nThere was some suspicion on the ground that the Agena's attitude control system was acting up and might not have the correct program stored in it. This suspicion was found to be incorrect. Shortly before radio blackout, Mission Control cautioned the astronauts to immediately abort the docking if any abnormalities occurred with the Agena.\n\nAfter the Agena began execution of its stored command program, which instructed the Agena to turn the combined spacecraft 90° to the right, Scott noticed that they were rolling. Armstrong used the Gemini's OAMS thrusters to stop the roll, but after it stopped, it immediately started again. Gemini 8 was out of range of ground communications at this time.\n\nArmstrong reported that the OAMS fuel had dropped to 30%, indicating that the problem could be on their own spacecraft. With concern that the high yaw rate might damage one or both spacecraft or even cause the propellant-heavy Agena to rupture or explode, the crew decided to undock from the Agena so they could analyze the situation. Scott switched the Agena control back to ground command, while Armstrong struggled to stabilize the combined vehicle enough to permit undocking. Scott then hit the undock button, and Armstrong fired a long burst of translation thrusters to back away from the Agena. Without the added mass of the Agena, Gemini started rotating more rapidly.\n\nThe astronauts realized that the problem was on the Gemini. By now the tumble rate had reached 296 degrees per second and Armstrong decided to shut down the OAMS and use the Re-entry Control System (RCS) thrusters to stop the tumble. Scott later praised Armstrong's actions as their spacecraft spun: \"The guy was brilliant. He knew the system so well. He found the solution, he activated the solution, under extreme circumstances ... it was my lucky day to be flying with him.\" The spacecraft came in range of the ground communications ship \"Coastal Sentry Quebec\". After steadying the spacecraft, the crew tested each OAMS thruster in turn and found that Number 8 had stuck on. Almost 75% of the reentry maneuvering fuel had been used to stop the tumble, and mission rules dictated that the flight be aborted once the Re-entry Control System was fired for any reason. Gemini 8 immediately prepared for an emergency landing.\n\nIt was decided to let the spacecraft reenter one orbit later so that it could land in a place that could be reached by the secondary recovery forces. The original plan was for Gemini 8 to land in the Atlantic, but that was supposed to be three days later. started to steam towards the new landing site east of Okinawa and south of Yokosuka, Japan.\n\nReentry took place over China, out of range of NASA tracking stations.\n\nPlanes were also dispatched, and U.S. Air Force pilot Les Schneider spotted the spacecraft as it descended precisely on time and on target. Three pararescuers jumped from his C-54 and attached a flotation collar to the capsule. The three pararescuers (Air Force PJs) were A/2C Glenn M. Moore; A/1C Eldridge M. Neal; and S/Sgt Larry D. Huyett.\n\nAll of the pararescuers and astronauts suffered from seasickness. Three hours after splashdown, \"Leonard F. Mason\" which had been outfitted with quarantine equipment, had both the men and the spacecraft on board. The astronauts were exhausted, but had otherwise survived the flight and their time on the water in good condition. They were briefly checked and slept for nine hours.\n\nThe next morning, the ship docked at the port of Naha. Fellow Astronaut Walter Schirra and other NASA officials flew in to greet them before the astronauts were summoned back to the ship for medical tests and debriefing. After release, they were brought by limousine to waiting helicopters where they flew to Kadena Air Base and then on to Florida on a C-135.\n\nUpon the return, the spacecraft was covered with a tarp. As part of the investigation into the mishap, ground controllers tested the Agena stage for the next several days by ordering it to perform various in-orbit maneuvers until exhausting its propellant and electrical power.\n\nFour months later, the crew of Gemini 10 rendezvoused with the inert Agena and astronaut Michael Collins retrieved its micrometeorite collector.\n\nNo conclusive reason for the thruster malfunction was found. The most probable cause was determined to be an electrical short, most likely due to a static electricity discharge. Power still flowed to the thruster, even when it was switched off. To prevent recurrence of this problem, spacecraft designs were changed so each thruster would have an isolated circuit.\nThe Deputy Administrator of NASA, Dr. Robert Seamans, was attending a celebratory dinner sponsored by the Goddard Space Flight Center, at which Vice President Hubert Humphrey was the guest speaker, when the problem arose. The incident inspired Seamans to review NASA's problem investigation procedures, modeled after military crash investigations, and on April 14, 1966, to formalize a new procedure in Management Instruction 8621.1, Mission Failure Investigation Policy And Procedures. This gave the Deputy Administrator the option of performing independent investigations of major failures, beyond those failure investigations for which the various Program Office officials were normally responsible. It declared: \"It is NASA policy to investigate and document the causes of all major mission failures which occur in the conduct of its space and aeronautical activities and to take appropriate corrective actions as a result of the findings and recommendations.\" Seamans first invoked this new procedure immediately following the fatal Apollo 1 spacecraft fire on January 27, 1967. It was also invoked after the next critical in-flight failure, which occurred on the Apollo 13 lunar mission in April 1970.\n\nMcDonnell Aircraft Corporation, the Gemini spacecraft prime contractor, also changed its procedures. Prior to the accident, McDonnell's top engineers would be at Cape Kennedy Air Force Station for the launch, then fly to Mission Control in Houston, Texas for the rest of the mission. The problem occurred while they were en route, so it was decided to keep McDonnell engineers in Houston for the entire mission.\n\nThe flight patch for the mission shows the whole spectrum of objectives that were hoped to have been accomplished on Gemini 8. The text at the bottom is composed of the zodiacal symbol for Gemini, , and the Roman numeral for eight, VIII. The two stars are Castor and Pollux, which are in the constellation of Gemini, and are refracted through a prism to provide the spectrum. Armstrong and Scott both designed the flight patch.\n\nThe spacecraft is on display at the Neil Armstrong Air and Space Museum, Wapakoneta, Ohio.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21079998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21079998", "title": "Giles Brindley", "text": "Giles Brindley\n\nGiles Skey Brindley, MD FRS (born April 30, 1926), is a British physiologist, musicologist and composer, known for his contributions to the physiology of the retina and colour vision, treatment of erectile dysfunction, and is perhaps best known for an unusual scientific presentation at the 1983 Las Vegas meeting of the American Urological Association, where he removed his pants to show the audience his chemically induced erection and invited them to inspect it closely. He had injected phenoxybenzamine using one ml (of a mixture 5mg of Phenoxybenzamine in 10 ml os saline) into his penis in his hotel room before the presentation.\n\nHe is also a pioneer in visual prosthetics, developing one of the first visual prostheses in the 1960s. The device was tested on four blind patients, giving them some basic visual sensation, but given the technology of the day further development was impractical. He also developed sacral anterior root stimulators for bladder control in\nparaplegic patients.\n\nTrained in Cambridge and London Hospital. he saw service in the RAF before taking up academic appointments first in Cambridge and then at the University of London, authoring more than 100 scientific papers in a variety of subjects. He was doctoral advisor to David Marr who later developed computational theories of vision that had great impact in the neuroscience of vision and computer vision, and post-doctoral adviser to Duco Hamasaki, a professor at the Bascom Palmer Eye Institute at the University of Miami School of Medicine.\n\nHe was, for a while, a member of the Ratio Club with Alan Turing, Horace Barlow, John Westcott and others from various fields, who met between 1949 and 1952 to discuss brain mechanisms, new technology and related issues.\n\nHe gave the 1986 Ferrier Lecture, a triennial Royal Society prize lectureship.\n\nBrindley invented a musical instrument in the 1960s, the 'logical bassoon', an electronically controlled version of the bassoon. It was easier to play than a normal bassoon, but was never marketed.\n\nHe has also composed music for wind instruments, including \"Variations on a Theme by Schoenberg\" and \"The Watermans Daughter\" .\n"}
{"id": "5663493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5663493", "title": "Heath High School shooting", "text": "Heath High School shooting\n\nThe Heath High School shooting occurred at Heath High School in West Paducah, Kentucky, United States, on December 1, 1997. Fourteen-year-old Michael Carneal opened fire on a group of praying students, killing three and injuring five more.\n\nOn December 1, 1997 Carneal wrapped a shotgun and a rifle in a blanket and took them to school, passing them off as an art project he was working on. He also carried a loaded Ruger MK II .22-caliber pistol in his backpack. Carneal rode to school with his sister and arrived at approximately 7:45 a.m. When he arrived, he inserted earplugs and took the pistol out of his bag. He fired eight rounds in fast succession at a youth prayer group of mostly female students. Three girls later died and five other students were wounded.\n\nBrittney Thomas, a survivor, claimed that when she turned around during the shooting, she was \"kind of facing down the barrel of the gun.\"\n\nA member of the prayer group, Benjamin Strong, testified that Carneal dropped the gun of his own accord after the shooting. Carneal placed his pistol on the ground and surrendered to the school principal, Bill Bond. After dropping the gun, Carneal said to Strong: \"Kill me, please. I can't believe I did that.\"\n\n\n\nMichael Carneal was a 14-year old freshman at the time of the shooting. Carneal told reporters that he couldn't give a single explanation for his crimes, and that contributing factors included a mistaken belief that his parents didn't love him, taunting from classmates, and false claims he was gay. He also stated that he didn't know who he was aiming at until he read the names in the paper.\n\nWeeks before the incident, Carneal stole a .38 caliber handgun from his parents' room and attempted to sell it. A student took the gun, threatening to tell police if Carneal did not give it to him. Additionally, Carneal had told students that \"something big is going to happen on Monday\" but no one took him seriously.\n\nIn the weeks before the shooting, Carneal stole several firearms from both his own home and a neighbor's home.\n\nOn the afternoon of Thanksgiving Day, Carneal went to his neighbor's home and broke into the garage, taking\"\n\n\nLater, he also stole:\n\n\nPresumably sometime after Thanksgiving Day, Carneal stole two shotguns from his father's closet and hid them under his bed. \n\nAccording to reports, Carneal had been bullied by other students and suffered from anxiety, depression, and severe paranoia. His paranoia was manifested in habits such as covering up vents and windows while in bathrooms, because he believed he was being watched. Following the shooting, Carneal was diagnosed with schizotypal personality disorder and dysthymia. Dr. Kathleen O'Connor, who treated Carneal while he was incarcerated at the Northern Kentucky Youth Development Center, initially agreed with this diagnosis but later determined that Carneal actually had paranoid schizophrenia. Dewey Cornell and Diane Schetky, who evaluated Carneal after the shooting, later changed their diagnosis to schizophrenia. He has been hospitalized several times since the start of his incarceration due to psychosis, and takes the anti-depressant Zoloft and Geodon, an anti-psychotic used to treat schizophrenia.\n\nCarneal had in his locker at the time a copy of Stephen King's novel \"Rage\" (first published in 1977 under the pseudonym Richard Bachman). After this shooting King requested his publisher to allow it to go out of print, fearing that it might inspire similar tragedies. \"Rage\" for a time continued to be available in the United Kingdom in \"The Bachman Books\" collection, although the collection now no longer contains \"Rage\". King's other Bachman novels are available in the US in separate volumes.\n\nIn October 1998, Judge Jeff Hines accepted a plea of guilty from Michael Carneal, due to his mental illness. Under a plea arrangement, the judge agreed to accept the pleas on condition that Carneal would receive a life sentence with the possibility of parole in 25 years (2023). According to prosecutor Tim Kaltenbach, the plea allows Carneal to receive mental health treatment during imprisonment as long as this is necessary for him or until he is released. Carneal was transported to the Kentucky State Reformatory in La Grange when he turned 18 where he remains. Prior to that he was held in at Northern Kentucky Youth Development Center, a Kentucky Department of Juvenile Justice facility in Crittenden. Carneal's Kentucky Department of Corrections (KDOC) ID is 151127. Carneal began serving time with KDOC on June 1, 2001.\n\nIn 2007, Carneal filed an appeal claiming that he was too mentally ill to plead guilty in 1998 to the shooting at Heath High School and asked the Kentucky Supreme Court for a re-trial. Prosecutors appealed and the Kentucky Supreme Court rejected his request and Carneal will continue to serve out his sentence.\n\nIn 2012, he attempted to withdraw his plea claiming he was mentally ill at the time he made it, later in the year the U.S. 6th Circuit Court of Appeals denied the request stating he should have acted sooner. \n\nThe families of the deceased have agreed to a $42 million settlement from Carneal, however at the time of settlement Carneal had no assets and his family’s insurance company, Kentucky Farm Bureau, has insisted repeatedly through court motions that it is not liable for his actions.\n\nIn early 1999, the parents of three victims represented by Jack Thompson filed a $33 million lawsuit against two Internet pornography sites, several computer game companies and makers and distributors of the 1994 film \"Natural Born Killers\" and the 1995 film \"The Basketball Diaries\". They claimed that media violence inspired Carneal and therefore should be held responsible for the deaths that occurred.\n\nThe case was dismissed in 2002. The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that it was \"simply too far a leap from shooting characters on a video screen to shooting people in a classroom.\" The same year, an identical case was brought against the same companies by the family of the teacher killed in the Columbine High School massacre. It was dismissed in 2002. Both Thompson and United States Attorney General John Ashcroft claimed Carneal's proficient marksmanship was due to practice in violent video games.\nFamily of victims organized a 20th anniversary service to commemorate the victims, and open a memorial for the victims placed across the street from the school. The memorial was built in a circle to symbolize the prayer circle that was targeted, with five benches representing the five surviving victims.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22506127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22506127", "title": "Inherent chirality", "text": "Inherent chirality\n\nIn chemistry, inherent chirality is a property of asymmetry in molecules arising, not from a stereogenic or chiral center, but from a twisting of the molecule in 3-D space. The term was first coined by Volker Boehmer in a 1994 review, to describe the chirality of calixarenes arising from their non-planar structure in 3-D space.\n\nThis phenomena was described as resulting from “the absence of a place of symmetry or an inversion center in the molecule as a whole.” Boehmer further explains this phenomena by suggesting that if an inherently chiral calixarene macrocycle were opened up it would produce an “achiral linear molecule.” There are two commonly used notations to describe a molecules inherent chirality: cR/cS (arising from the notation used for classically chiral compounds, with \"c\" denoting curvature) and P/M. Inherently chiral molecules, like their classically chiral counterparts, can be used in chiral host-guest chemistry, enantioselective synthesis, and other applications. There are naturally occurring inherently chiral molecules as well. Retinal, a chromophore in rhodopsin. exists in solution as a racemic pair of enantiomers due to the curvature of an achiral polyene chain.\n\nAfter creating a series of traditionally chiral calixarenes (through the addition of a chiral substituent group on the top or bottom rim of the macrocycle,) the first inherently chiral calixarenes were synthesized in 1982, though the molecules were not yet described as such. The inherently chiral calixarenes featured an XXYZ or WXYZ substitution pattern, such that the planar representation of the molecule does not show any chirality, and if the macrocycle were to be broken open, this would produce an achiral linear molecule. The chirality in these calixarenes is instead derived from the curvature of the molecule in space.\nDue to the initial lack of a formal definition after the initial conception, the term inherent chirality was utilized to describe a variety of chiral molecules that don’t fall into other defined chirality types. The first fully formulated definition of inherent chirality was published in 2004 by Mandolini and Schiaffino, (and later modified by Szumna):\n\n\"“inherent chirality arises from the introduction of a curvature in an ideal planar structure that is devoid of perpendicular symmetry planes in its bidimensional representation.\"\"\n\nInherent chirality has been known by a variety of names in the literature including bowl chirality (in fullerene fragments), intrinsic chirality, helicity (see section 3a) residual enantiomers (as applied to sterically hindered molecular propellers,) and cyclochirality (though this is often considered to be a more specific example and cannot be applied to all inherently chiral molecules.\n\nA simple example of inherent chirality is that of corannulene commonly referred to as “bowl chirality” in the literature. The chirality of an unsubstituted corranulene (containing no classic stereogenic centers) cannot be seen in a 2D representation, but becomes clear when a 3D representation is evoked, as the C symmetry of corranulenes provides the molecules with a source of chirality (figure 2.) Racemization of these molecules is possible through an inversion of curvature, though some inherently chiral molecules have inversion barriers comparable to a classic chiral center.\n\nSome inherently chiral molecules contain chirality planes, or planes within a given molecules across which the molecule is dissymmetric. Paracyclophanes often contain chiral planes if the bridge across the phenylene unit is short enough, or if the phenylene contains another substituent, not in the bridge, that hinders rotation of the phenylene unit.\n\nSimilar to chirality planes, chirality axes arise from an axis about which the spatial arrangement of substituents creates chirality. This can be seen in helical molecules (see section 3a) as well as some alkenes.\n\nHelical molecules are considered to have inherent chirality, but this is sometimes referred to as helical chirality or \"helicity\". The IUPAC definition of helicity is: \"chirality of a helical, propeller or screw-shaped molecular entity.\" Helicenes (figure 4) are chiral polycyclic aromatic compounds that lack conventional chiral centers, but are chiral due to the helical shape of the 3D molecules.\n\nSpiro compounds (compounds with a twisted structure of two or more rings) can have inherent chirality at the spiroatom, due to the twisting of the achiral ring system.\n\nInherently chiral alkenes have been synthesized through the use of a “buckle” where in an achiral, linear alkene is forced into a chiral conformation. Alkenes have no classical chirality, so generally, an external stereogenic center must be introduced. However, by locking the alkene into a conformation through the use of an achiral buckle allows for the creation of an inherently chiral alkene. Inherently chiral alkenes have been synthesized through the use of dialkoxysilanes, with a large enough racemization barrier that enantiomers have been isolated.\n"}
{"id": "16294789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16294789", "title": "International Neuromodulation Society", "text": "International Neuromodulation Society\n\nThe International Neuromodulation Society (INS) is a non-profit group of clinicians, scientists and engineers dedicated to the scientific development and awareness of neuromodulation – the alteration of nerve activity through the delivery of electromagnetic stimulation or chemical agents to targeted sites of the body. Neuromodulation is a burgeoning field – analysts predicted a 27 percent annual growth rate through 2012. Founded in 1989 and based in San Francisco, CA, the INS educates and promotes the field through meetings, its bimonthly, peer-reviewed journal \"\" and chapter websites.\n\n\"Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface\" is the official publication of the INS. The peer-reviewed journal aims to advance the basic and clinical science of the field of neuromodulation. Published 8 times per year, the journal is MEDLINE-indexed.\n\nIn 1989, after the first International Congress on Epidural Spinal Cord Stimulation was held in the Netherlands, a group of physicians founded the INS in Paris, France. Their incentive was to bridge the gap between neurologists, neurosurgeons, vascular surgeons and cardiologists to build a multidisciplinary and international society dedicated to the advancement of neuromodulation. \n\nThe International Neuromodulation Society now represents a professional association of more than 1700 members worldwide and has a presence in 33 countries around the globe. The INS was named the 2007 Most Valuable Nonprofit Society by Neurotech Reports and was awarded the Golden Electrode Award at the 2007 Neurotech Leaders Forum. \n\nINS members actively work to inform peers and patients about this new class of therapies through organizational collaboration, articles, professional presentations, and web content.\n\n\nThe 14th World Congress of the INS will be held in Sydney, Australia in 2019.\n\nThe official journal of the International Neuromodulation Society is \"\". This journal is the preeminent journal in the area of neuromodulation, providing its readership with state of the art clinical, translational and basic science research in the field as well as representing the needs of the neuromodulation community. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "200535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200535", "title": "Isabella of Valois", "text": "Isabella of Valois\n\nIsabella of France (9 November 1389 – 13 September 1409) was Queen consort of England as the second spouse of King Richard II. Her parents were King Charles VI of France and Isabeau of Bavaria. She married the king at the age of seven and was widowed three years later. She later married Charles, Duke of Orléans, dying in childbirth at the age of nineteen.\n\nIsabella's younger sister, Catherine, was Queen of England from 1420 until 1422, married to Henry V and mother of Henry VI.\n\nIsabella lived during a period of political tension between France and England known as the Hundred Years War, the situation made worse by the mental instability of her father.\n\nOn 31 October 1396, almost the age of seven, Isabella married the widower King Richard II of England in a move for peace with France. The fact that she was a child was discussed during the negotiations, but Richard replied that each day would rectify that problem, that it was an advantage as he would then be able to shape her in accordance with his ideal, and that he was young enough to wait. Isabella herself told the English envoys that she was happy to be Queen of England, because she had been told that this would make her a great lady. She is described as pretty, and reportedly practiced in order to be able to perform her role as queen. King Richard traveled to Paris to fetch her, where the wedding was celebrated with grand festivities at the French royal court, before they continued to the English enclave of Calais, where the formal wedding ceremony was performed on 31 October.\n\nAfter the wedding, Queen Isabella followed Richard to England, where she was placed in Windsor Castle with her own court under the supervision of her appointed governess and chief lady-in-waiting Lady de Coucy (later replaced by Lady Mortimer). She was formally crowned Queen of England in Westminster in London the following year, 1397.\n\nAlthough the union was political and an arranged marriage, Richard II and the child Isabella developed a mutually respectful relationship: Richard regularly visited her in Windsor, where he treated her with respect and entertained her and her ladies-in-waiting with humorous conversation, and Isabella reportedly enjoyed and looked forward to his visits.\n\nBy May 1399, the Queen had been moved to Portchester Castle for protection while Richard went on a military campaign in Ireland. During the following rebellion against Richard, Isabella was moved by the Duke of York first to Wallingford Castle and then to Leeds Castle. When on his return to England Richard II was imprisoned and died in custody, Queen Isabella was ordered by the new King Henry IV to move out of Windsor Castle and to settle in the Bishop of Salisbury's Thamesside palace at Sonning in formal house arrest.\n\nIn 1400, the deposed king was killed, and the French court requested that Isabella return to France. King Henry IV initially refused, deciding Queen Isabella should marry his son, the future Henry V of England, but she refused. Knowing her spouse was dead, she went into mourning, ignoring Henry IV's demands. In August 1401, he let her go back to France, but kept her dowry.\n\nIn 1406, Henry IV repeated his suggestion that Isabella marry his son, but it was refused by the French court.\n\nOn 29 June 1406, Queen Isabella, aged 16, married her cousin, Charles, Duke of Orléans, aged 11. She died in childbirth at the age of 19. Her surviving daughter, Joan, married John II of Alençon in 1424. Isabella's body was interred in Blois, in the abbey of St. Laumer, where it was later discovered in 1624, curiously wrapped in bands of linen plated over with quicksilver. It was then transferred to the church of the Celestines in Paris.\n\nIn Shakespeare's play \"Richard II\" Richard's queen appears in two significant scenes at the time of his deposition, but she is portrayed as an adult. She is forced by the new king Henry IV to leave for France after the deposition.\n\nTwo children's novels about Isabella's life appeared in the late 1950s, Hilda Lewis' \"The Gentle Falcon\" and Gladys Malvern's \"My Lady, My Love.\"\n\nIsabella appears in the historical novel \"In a Dark Wood Wandering\" (original Dutch title \"Het woud der verwachting\") by Hella Haasse, which centers on the life of her second husband Charles, Duke of Orléans.\n\n"}
{"id": "7675405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7675405", "title": "James Gallier", "text": "James Gallier\n\nJames Gallier (July 24, 1798 – October 3, 1866) was a prominent 19th-century New Orleans architect.\n\nHe was born James Gallagher in Ravensdale, County Louth, Ireland in 1798. He changed his last name to a French surname when he moved to New Orleans (1834).\n\nHe worked in England during his early career, designing the Godmanchester Chinese Bridge which crosses a mill stream of the River Great Ouse in 1827, and then working on the redevelopment of the Grosvenor Estate in Mayfair. He became bankrupt, and emigrated to America in 1832.\n\nHe was one of a group of architects who created the idea of Architectural Practice, with the architect working for the clients, and managing those who actually build the structures that have been designed. \nHis significant works that are National Historic Landmarks include:\n\nHis other significant works include:\n\nIn 1823, while in England, he met and married Elizabeth Tyler. Their only surviving child was James Gallier Jr., who also became an architect. Elizabeth died in July 1844, in her mid-forties.\n\nOn June 23, 1850, in Charleston, South Carolina, he married Catherine Maria Robinson of Mobile, Alabama, who was born November 18, 1822, in Hardwick, Massachusetts, to Colonel Joseph Robinson and Ann Maria Ruggles Walton. She was 24 years his junior.\n\nOn October 3, 1866, Mr. and Mrs. Gallier were passengers on board the \"Evening Star\", a paddle-wheel steamer en route from New York City to New Orleans, when it sank in a hurricane about 175 miles east of Savannah, Georgia. There were only a half-dozen survivors out of approximately 250 people.\n\nPierson Jr., William H. The Colonial and Neo-Classical Styles, vol.1, American Buildings and Their Architects (New York: Anchor Books,1976),456.\n\n"}
{"id": "33582938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33582938", "title": "Jedermann (film)", "text": "Jedermann (film)\n\nJedermann (English: \"Everyman\") is a 1961 Austrian drama film directed by Gottfried Reinhardt, based on the 1911 play of the same title written by Hugo von Hofmannsthal. The film was submitted as the Austrian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 34th Academy Awards, but it was not selected as one of the five nominees in the category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8541349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8541349", "title": "John III, Marquess of Montferrat", "text": "John III, Marquess of Montferrat\n\nJohn III Palaeologus (c. 1362 – 25 August 1381) was the Margrave of Montferrat from 1378 to his death. He was the second son of John II of Montferrat and Isabella of Majorca and brother and successor of Secondotto. On 3 January 1379, John III was installed as margrave under the regency of his uncle Otto, Duke of Brunswick-Grubenhagen. \n\nDesirous of avenging his brother's death and recuperating the territory lost in the aftermath of Secondotto's retreat, John declared war on the Visconti of Milan, but was forced to sign a peace before fighting had begun, under the pressure of the Antipope Clement VII of Avignon, who wished to have Otto of Brunswick at his court. Otto consequently signed the treaty and confirmed the borders of the margraviate during his absence. In order to guarantee the survival of the margraviate, Otto placed it under the protection of the Kingdom of France. \n\nLater, John followed Otto to the court of the Kingdom of Naples, but during his absence troubles arose. When Charles III was declared King of Naples and Joan I successively fled, John and Otto found themselves fully immersed in the war over the Neapolitan succession and unable to return to Montferrat. On 25 August 1381, they were involved in a battle in which Otto was captured and the young John slain. He succeeded by his younger brother Theodore II, Marquess of Montferrat.\n\n"}
{"id": "1212980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1212980", "title": "John Roseboro", "text": "John Roseboro\n\nJohn Junior Roseboro (May 13, 1933 – August 16, 2002) was an American professional baseball player and coach. He played as a catcher in Major League Baseball from 1957 until 1970, most notably for the Los Angeles Dodgers. Roseboro was a four-time All-Star player and won two Gold Glove Awards for his defensive skills. He was the Dodgers' starting catcher in four World Series with the Dodgers winning three of those. He is considered one of the best defensive catchers of the 1960s. Roseboro was known for his role in one of the most violent incidents in baseball history when Juan Marichal struck him in the head with a bat during a game in .\n\nRoseboro was born in Ashland, Ohio and enrolled at Central State University. He was signed by the Brooklyn Dodgers as an amateur free agent prior to the 1952 season and, began his professional baseball career with the Sheboygan Indians of the Wisconsin State League. He posted a .365 batting average with Sheboygan in 1952 to finish second in the league batting championship. Roseboro missed the 1954 season due to military service but, after five years in the minor leagues, he was promoted to the major leagues in June 1957 at the age of 24.\n\nDuring his first season, Roseboro served as backup catcher for the Dodgers' perennial All-Star catcher, Roy Campanella, and was being groomed to be Campanella's replacement. However, he was promoted to the starting catcher's position ahead of schedule when Campanella had a tragic car accident in January 1958 that ended his career. In his first full season, with the team having moved to Los Angeles, Roseboro hit for a .271 batting average along with 14 home runs and 43 runs batted in. He was also named as a reserve player for the National League in the 1958 All-Star game. In 1959, Roseboro led the league's catchers in putouts and in baserunners caught stealing, helping the Dodgers win the National League Pennant. The Dodgers went on to win the 1959 World Series, defeating the Chicago White Sox in six games.\n\nAfter having a below par season in 1960, Roseboro rebounded in 1961 posting career highs with 18 home runs and 59 runs batted in. He also led the National League catchers in putouts and double plays and finished second in fielding percentage and in assists to earn his first Gold Glove Award as, the Dodgers finished the season in second place behind the Cincinnati Reds. He also earned his second All-Star team berth as a reserve player in the 1961 All-Star game. He won his third All-Star berth as a reserve in the 1962 All-Star game. The Dodgers battled the San Francisco Giants in a tight pennant race during the 1962 season with the two teams ending the season tied for first place and met in the 1962 National League tie-breaker series. The Giants won the three-game series to clinch the National League championship.\n\nRoseboro helped guide the Dodgers' pitching staff to a league leading 2.85 earned run average in 1963 as the Dodgers clinched the National League Pennant by 6 games over the St. Louis Cardinals. Roseboro made his presence felt in the 1963 World Series against the New York Yankees when he hit a three-run home run off Whitey Ford to win the first game of the series. The Dodgers went on to win the series by defeating the Yankees in four straight games. The Dodgers dropped to seventh place in the 1964 season, however Roseboro hit for a career high .287 batting average and led the league's catchers with a 60.4% caught stealing percentage.\n\nRoseboro was involved in a major altercation with Juan Marichal during a game between the Dodgers and San Francisco Giants at Candlestick Park on August 22, . The Giants and the Dodgers had nurtured a heated rivalry with each other dating back to their days together in the New York City market. As the 1965 season neared its climax, the Dodgers were involved in a tight pennant race, entering the game leading the Milwaukee Braves by half a game and the Giants by one and a half games. The incident occurred in the aftermath of the Watts riots near Roseboro's Los Angeles home and while the Dominican Civil War raged in Marichal's home country, so emotions were raw.\n\nMaury Wills led off the game with a bunt single off Marichal, and eventually scored a run when Ron Fairly hit a double. Marichal, a fierce competitor, viewed the bunt as a cheap way to get on base and took umbrage with Wills. When Wills came up to bat in the second inning, Marichal threw a pitch directly at Wills sending him sprawling to the ground. Willie Mays then led off the bottom of the second inning for the Giants and Dodgers' pitcher Sandy Koufax threw a pitch over Mays' head as a token form of retaliation. In the top of the third inning with two outs, Marichal threw a fastball that came close to hitting Fairly, prompting him to dive to the ground. Marichal's act angered the Dodgers sitting in the dugout and home plate umpire Shag Crawford then warned both teams that any further retaliations would not be tolerated.\n\nMarichal came to bat in the third inning expecting Koufax to take further retaliation against him but instead, he was startled when Roseboro's return throw to Koufax after the second pitch either brushed his ear or came close enough for him to feel the breeze off the ball. When Marichal confronted Roseboro about the proximity of his throw, Roseboro came out of his crouch with his fists clenched. Marichal afterwards stated that he thought Roseboro was about to attack him and raised his bat, striking Roseboro at least twice over the head with his bat, opening a two-inch gash that sent blood flowing down the catcher's face that required 14 stitches. Koufax raced in from the mound to attempt to separate them and was joined by the umpires, players and coaches from both teams.\n\nA 14-minute brawl ensued on the field before Koufax, Giants captain Willie Mays and other peacemakers restored order. Marichal was ejected from the game and afterwards, National League president Warren Giles suspended him for eight games (two starts), fined him a then-NL record US$1,750 (), and also forbade him from traveling to Dodger Stadium for the final, crucial two-game series of the season. Roseboro filed a $110,000 damage suit against Marichal one week after the incident, but eventually settled out of court for $7,500.\n\nYears later, Roseboro stated that he was retaliating for Marichal having thrown at Wills. He explained that Koufax would not throw at batters for fear of hurting them due to the velocity of his pitches. He further stated that his throwing close to Marichal's ear was, \"standard operating procedure\", as a form of retribution. Marichal didn't face the Dodgers again until spring training in April 3, . In his first at bat against Marichal after the incident, Roseboro hit a three-run home run. San Francisco General Manager Chub Feeney approached Dodgers General Manager Buzzy Bavasi to attempt to arrange a handshake between Marichal and Roseboro, but Roseboro declined the offer.\n\nDodger fans remained angry with Marichal for several years after the altercation, and reacted unfavorably when he was signed by the Dodgers in 1975. By then, however, Roseboro had forgiven Marichal, and personally appealed to fans to do the same.\n\nThe Dodgers went on to win the 1965 National League Pennant by two games over the Giants. Even though the Giants won the two games against the Dodgers during which Marichal had been suspended, the outcome of the season may have been different without the Giants' pitcher's suspension, as he finished the season with a 22-13 win-loss record. Roseboro once again guided the Dodgers' pitching staff to a league-leading 2.81 earned run average. He caught for two twenty game winners in 1965 with Koufax winning 26 games, while Don Drysdale won 23 games. In his book, \"The Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract\", baseball historian Bill James said the decision to give Joe Torre a National League Gold Glove Award was absurd, stating that he was given the award because of his offensive statistics and that either Roseboro or Tom Haller was more deserving of the award. In the 1965 World Series against the Minnesota Twins, Roseboro contributed a two-run single to win Game 3 of the series as, the Dodgers went on to win the world championship in seven games.\n\nThe Dodgers' pitching staff continued to lead the league in earned run average in 1966 as they battled with the San Francisco Giants and the Pittsburgh Pirates in a tight pennant race. The Dodgers eventually prevailed to win the National League Pennant for a second consecutive year. Roseboro led the league with a career-high 903 putouts and finished second to Joe Torre in fielding percentage to win his second Gold Glove Award. The Dodgers would eventually lose the 1966 World Series, getting swept in four games by the Baltimore Orioles.\n\nThe Dodgers would fall to 8th place in the 1967 season and Roseboro would be traded to the Minnesota Twins after the season with Bob Miller and Ron Perranoski for Mudcat Grant and Zoilo Versalles. While with the Twins, he would be named to his fourth and final All-Star team when he was named as a reserve for the American League team in the 1969 All-Star game. After the season, Roseboro was released by the Twins. He signed as a free agent with the Washington Senators on December 31, 1969 but appeared in only 46 games for the last place Senators. He played in his final major league game on August 11, 1970 at the age of 37.\n\nIn an fourteen-year major league career, Roseboro played in 1,585 games, accumulating 1,206 hits in 4,847 at bats for a .249 career batting average along with 104 home runs, 548 runs batted in and an on-base percentage of .326. He had a .989 career fielding percentage as a catcher. Roseboro caught 112 shutouts during his career, ranking him 19th all-time among major league catchers. He was the catcher for two of Sandy Koufax's four no-hitters and caught more than 100 games in 11 of his 14 major league seasons. Baseball historian Bill James ranked Roseboro 27th all-time among major league catchers.\n\nAfter completing his playing career with Washington, Roseboro coached for the Senators (1971) and California Angels (1972–74). Later, he served as a minor league batting instructor (1977) and catching instructor (1987) for the Dodgers. Roseboro and his wife, Barbara Fouch Roseboro, also owned a Beverly Hills public relations firm.\n\nRoseboro appeared as a plainclothes officer in the 1966 \"Dragnet\" TV movie. He also appeared as himself in the 1962 film \"Experiment in Terror\" along with Don Drysdale and Wally Moon, and as himself in the 1963 \"Mister Ed\" episode \"Leo Durocher Meets Mister Ed.\"\n\nChevrolet was one of the sponsors of the Dodgers' radio coverage in the mid-1960s. The song \"See the USA in Your Chevrolet\", made famous by Dinah Shore in the '50s, was sung in Chevrolet commercials by Roseboro and other Dodger players. Dodger announcer Jerry Doggett once joked that Roseboro was a singer \"whose singing career was destined to go absolutely nowhere.\"\n\nAfter several years of bitterness over their famous altercation, Roseboro and Marichal became friends in the 1980s. Roseboro personally appealed to the Baseball Writers' Association of America not to hold the incident against Marichal after he was passed over for election to the Hall of Fame in his first two years of eligibility. Marichal was elected in 1983, and thanked Roseboro during his induction speech. \"There were no hard feelings on my part,\" Roseboro said, \"and I thought if that was made public, people would believe that this was really over with. So I saw him at a Dodger old-timers' game, and we posed for pictures together, and I actually visited him in the Dominican. The next year, he was in the Hall of Fame. Hey, over the years, you learn to forget things.\"\n\nRoseboro died of heart disease on August 16, 2002 in Los Angeles at age 69. Marichal served as an honorary pallbearer at his funeral. \"Johnny's forgiving me was one of the best things that happened in my life,\" he said, at the service. \"I wish I could have had John Roseboro as my catcher.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31985560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31985560", "title": "Kodevirion", "text": "Kodevirion\n\nThe term kodecyte is used to describe cells with detectable Function-Spacer-Lipid (FSL) constructs, and in concert, the term kodevirion (pronounced co-da-virion), is used to describe virions with detectable FSL constructs.\n\nThe method for labeling virions with FSL constructs is simple, non covalent and only involves incubation of the virion with the FSL construct in saline for a few hours – nothing further is required. The FSL construct will spontaneously, stably and quantitatively incorporate into the virion membrane. Virions have been labelled with fluorescent (FSL-FLRO4) and radioactive iodine (FSL-125I). FSL-FLRO4 could be shown to label virions in a dose dependent manner and could be visualized by flow cytometry either directly, or indirectly if the virion had bound to the cell or fused with the cell membrane. FSLs do not appear to significantly affect the virions infectivity or their ability to bind target cells, probably because they integrate into the membrane without exposing the virion to chemical agents or covalent modification.\n\n"}
{"id": "7823692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7823692", "title": "Liquid state machine", "text": "Liquid state machine\n\nA liquid state machine (LSM) is a particular kind of spiking neural network. An LSM consists of a large collection of units (called \"nodes\", or \"neurons\"). Each node receives time varying input from external sources (the inputs) as well as from other nodes. Nodes are randomly connected to each other. The recurrent nature of the connections turns the time varying input into a spatio-temporal pattern of activations in the network nodes. The spatio-temporal patterns of activation are read out by linear discriminant units.\n\nThe soup of recurrently connected nodes will end up computing a large variety of nonlinear functions on the input. Given a large enough variety of such nonlinear functions, it is theoretically possible to obtain linear combinations (using the read out units) to perform whatever mathematical operation is needed to perform a certain task, such as speech recognition or computer vision.\n\nThe word liquid in the name comes from the analogy drawn to dropping a stone into a still body of water or other liquid. The falling stone will generate ripples in the liquid. The input (motion of the falling stone) has been converted into a spatio-temporal pattern of liquid displacement (ripples).\n\nLSMs have been put forward as a way to explain the operation of brains. LSMs are argued to be an improvement over the theory of artificial neural networks because:\n\n\nCriticisms of LSMs as used in computational neuroscience are that\n\nIf a reservoir has fading memory and input separability, with help of a readout,\nit can be proven the liquid state machine is a universal function approximator using Stone-Weierstrass theorem.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7218866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7218866", "title": "List of human spaceflights, 1991–2000", "text": "List of human spaceflights, 1991–2000\n\nThis is a detailed listing of human spaceflights from 1991 to 2000, including the continuation of Russian space station Mir and the American Space Shuttle program, and the first flights to the International Space Station (ISS).\n\nThe Soviet Union broke up at the end of 1991. From this date onwards the former USSR constituent republics are shown as separate nationalities.\n"}
{"id": "7344567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7344567", "title": "Little Salt Spring", "text": "Little Salt Spring\n\nLittle Salt Spring is an archaeological and paleontological site in North Port, Florida, United States. It is located directly off Price Boulevard between US 41 and Interstate 75 adjacent to Heron Creek Middle School in the city of North Port. On July 10, 1979, it was added to the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nLittle Salt Spring is a feature of the karst topography of Florida, specifically an example of a sinkhole. It is classified as a third magnitude spring. The numerous deep vents at the bottom of the sinkhole feed oxygen-depleted groundwater into it, producing an anoxic environment below a depth of about . This fosters the preservation of Paleo-Indian and early Archaic artifacts and ecofacts, as well as fossil bones of the extinct megafauna once found in Florida.\n\nOriginally it was thought that Little Salt Spring was a shallow freshwater pond, but in the 1950s SCUBA divers discovered that it was a true sinkhole extending downward over , similar to the cenotes of the Yucatán Peninsula (another karst region). The actual depth of the surface pond is with a central shaft dropping vertically to an inverted cone with a maximum determined depth at the outer edges of . There are ledges around the wall of the cenote at below the present water level.\n\nThe site has been owned by the University of Miami since 1980, with research performed by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science. In 2013, Miami began considering selling the site to Sarasota County due to funding being cut towards maintaining the site and its facilities.\n\nThe water level in the spring has varied over time. Twelve to thirteen thousand years ago the ocean level was about 100 meters (more than 300 feet) lower than at present, drawing down the water table in Florida, and the water level in Little Salt Spring was lower than at present. The basin around the spring and a slough extending away from it are filled with moist, soft peat. Hundreds of burials dating from 5,200 to 6,800 years ago have been found in the slough. As has happened in other wetland burials in Florida, such as at the Windover Archaeological Site, brain matter survived in many of the skulls. In the 1970s the overturned shell of an extinct giant land tortoise was found on the ledge. A wooden stake had been driven between the carapace and the plastron, and there is evidence of a fire under the tortoise. It appears that the tortoise had been cooked in its shell. The radiocarbon date for the wooden stake was 12,030 years ago; a bone from the tortoise was dated to 13,450 years ago. Large numbers of human bones have been recovered from the spring itself, but were not collected under controlled conditions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44545443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44545443", "title": "Long Beach Jane Doe", "text": "Long Beach Jane Doe\n\nLong Beach Jane Doe (known locally as Jane Doe 40) is an unidentified murder victim whose body was found in May 1974. Her suspected murderer was arrested but she has never been identified, despite extensive investigation.\n\nThe strangled body of a young woman was found on May 28, 1974, on the jetty of Alamitos Beach in Long Beach, California.\n\nShe was estimated to be between 20 and 28 years old and had been raped. Basic physical examination showed she was about 5 feet 5 inches tall and weighed about 118 pounds. The victim was white with possible Hispanic ancestry, as she had brown or black hair and brown eyes. She also had a unique scar on the back of her left hand, which was shaped like the letter T. She also had an inch-long scar on the back of her left thigh.\n\nShe was wearing a white gold, 14-karat engagement ring with a small diamond. She was clothed in a pinkish-orange suit with a faux black fur coat and calf-high suede boots.\n\nThe only items the Jane Doe carried were a house key and padlock key. The padlock key was attached to a broken chain.\n\nNo missing persons have been found who match the victim's description. Investigators have the girl's DNA and fingerprints. A forensic facial reconstruction was created by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children to assist with identification.\n\nPolice received a confession from a Texas man who claimed he had assisted with dumping the victim's body. He led authorities to another suspect.\n\nOn May 20, 2013, a man named Gary Stamp (some sources state \"Stump\"), aged 61, was arrested. He confessed to the girl's murder but was not certain of her name, which may have been Anna. Stamp was arraigned on June 12, 2013, in Superior Court.\n\nThe victim may have been seen at a bar earlier. Stamp told police that he had met her at a bar. Stamp would die of cancer while in police custody.\n\n"}
{"id": "39308232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39308232", "title": "Madame Vastra, Jenny Flint, and Strax", "text": "Madame Vastra, Jenny Flint, and Strax\n\nMadame Vastra, Jenny Flint, and Strax (informally known as the Paternoster Gang, together with the Doctor), are a trio of recurring fictional characters in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", created by Steven Moffat, and portrayed, respectively, by Neve McIntosh, Catrin Stewart and Dan Starkey.\n\nThe three characters first appear in the sixth series episode \"A Good Man Goes to War.\" Madame Vastra (a Silurian) and Jenny Flint (a human) are a married couple. In later stories we see them living in London during the 19th century. Strax, a Sontaran, is seen in his first appearance to be acting as a nurse, caring for wounded soldiers on another planet. They are all recruited by the Eleventh Doctor to help him rescue Amy Pond. Despite the success of the effort, Strax apparently dies in the battle. He is, however, shown to be awakened by Vastra and Flint a couple of days later, in the webisode \"The Battle of Demons Run: Two Days Later\"; he then became their butler in the 19th century.\n\nSince their first appearance, the trio have appeared various times to help the Doctor, even having a central role in the first half of \"The Crimson Horror\" (2013). Their last episode was 2014's \"Deep Breath\", the first episode starring the Twelfth Doctor.\n\nThey also have their own spin-off novella, \"Devil in the Smoke\" (2012), and spin-off novel, \"Silhouette\" (2014), and the trio have appeared in several online \"minisodes\", with Strax additionally appearing in a series of \"Field Report\" videos posted to the \"Doctor Who\" website. In 2014, they appeared without the Doctor in the \"Doctor Who Magazine\" comic strip in the storyline \"The Crystal Throne\" (DWM #475–476). Since 2015, an ongoing series of short stories and a comic strip titled \"Strax and the Time Shark\", featuring the three characters, has been a regular feature in \"Doctor Who Adventures\" magazine. The three characters became popular with audiences, with the presence of an inter-species same-sex couple also leading to some attention.\n\nVastra is a female Silurian warrior from prehistoric Earth who was awakened from hibernation in the 19th century when her lair was disturbed during the construction of the London Underground. Initially enraged, she slaughtered five commuters before being pacified by the Doctor. She eventually overcame her race's hatred of humans and joined London society. She became a consulting detective to Scotland Yard, and a possible inspiration for the Sherlock Holmes stories. Amongst her unseen adventures is her capture of Jack the Ripper, whom she eats (she mentions in \"A Good Man Goes to War\" that she found him \"stringy, but tasty all the same\"). She hired a maid, Jenny Flint, who assists her in her investigations and who is also married to her.\n\nJenny's backstory in \"The Battle of Demons Run: Two Days Later\" (2013) shows she was turned away from her family because of her \"preferences in companionship\", and saved from attackers by Vastra, who took her on as an employee. The Doctor was present at their initial meeting, during which Vastra recounts in \"The Name of the Doctor\" (2013) that he saved Jenny's life. She shows herself to have acquired extremely formidable skills as a hand-to-hand combatant and a swordswoman. She is shown in all of her appearances to be entirely comfortable with post-19th century technologies, time travel, and the TARDIS; she is repeatedly seen using technology devices, and in the episode \"Deep Breath\", she is seen wearing and using the Sonic Gauntlet designed for that episode.\n\nStrax is a member of the warrior Sontaran alien race. Strax was forced to serve as a nurse, healing the injured as a punishment for being defeated by the Doctor during the Sontaran invasion of Earth. This is contrary to the Sontaran's warrior instincts and mentality and as such, Strax has been known to occasionally slip back to his Sontaran ways and mannerisms. In \"A Good Man Goes to War\", he states that he is nearly 12, suggesting that this is quite old for a Sontaran. A running gag is Strax's inability to tell the difference between genders and his obsession with using violent tactics.\n\n\nIn their first appearance in \"A Good Man Goes to War\", the three, along with others who owe him favours, are chosen by the Eleventh Doctor to help him save Amy Pond from Madame Kovarian and the Order of the Headless Monks at Demons Run. At the time, Strax is a Sontaran \"nurse\" taking care of the wounded soldiers on a battlefield as part of a penance imposed on him. Before he can answer Captain Harcourt who came up with this penance, the Doctor arrives in his TARDIS to take him to Demons Run. They fight together against their enemies and succeed in saving Amy, but Strax is mortally wounded and appears to die after saying his last words to Rory Williams.\n\nIn \"The Battle of Demons Run: Two Days Later\", a webcast set two days after the events of \"A Good Man Goes to War\", Strax is awakened by Vastra and Jenny, after they heal his wounds, and accepts their proposition to join them in London in 1888. He subsequently becomes their butler.\n\nThey then appear in \"The Snowmen\" (2012), trying to convince the Eleventh Doctor to come out of retirement (into which he has retreated after losing Amy and Rory in \"The Angels Take Manhattan\"). They help the Doctor's future new companion Clara Oswald to find him and support them in their fight against the Great Intelligence. A high fall kills Clara, whose death indirectly lets the Doctor defeat the Great Intelligence.\n\nThe trio — and more particularly Jenny — have a central role in the first half of \"The Crimson Horror\" (2013), set in 1893, in which they investigate a series of strange deaths. They travel to Yorkshire, where Jenny infiltrates a suspect community called Sweetville, led by Mrs Gillyflower. She finds the Eleventh Doctor, kept prisoner in Sweetville, and the trio reunites to help him defeat Mrs Gillyflower, by sabotaging the rocket she was planning to use to poison the skies. They discover that Clara appears to be alive (the Doctor's companion being another version of the one seen in \"The Snowmen\", coming from another era), but the Doctor does not explain why to Jenny, as he himself does not know the answer at this time.\n\nThe three characters reappear in the seventh series finale \"The Name of the Doctor\", where they organise a meeting in a dream with Clara and River Song. During the \"conference call\", the three are captured by the Whisper Men, minions of the Great Intelligence, who uses them as bait to bring the Eleventh Doctor to his tomb on the planet Trenzalore. The Doctor unhesitatingly goes to rescue them, recalling their caring and concern for him in \"The Snowmen\" and feeling a duty towards them. After the Doctor arrives on Trenzalore with Clara, the Great Intelligence scatters itself across the Doctor's timeline to destroy him. As history changes, Jenny disappears and Strax forgets his friendship with Vastra and attacks her, forcing her to defend herself. She points a weapon at him and it glows, but Strax disappears suddenly, leaving Vastra bewildered and calling his name. After Clara enters the timestream to save the Doctor and undo the Great Intelligence's changes to history, Jenny and Strax are restored.\n\nIn \"Deep Breath\", the first episode of the eighth series, Vastra, Jenny and Strax arrive in central London to witness a dinosaur marching through the city and proceeding to cough up the TARDIS. Upon finding the TARDIS, they find emerging from it a recently regenerated Twelfth Doctor, who falls unconscious. The three, along with Clara, take him back to their home to rest, while they attempt to solve the problem of the dinosaur. However, the Doctor soon wakes up and tries to solve it himself, only to witness the dinosaur spontaneously combust, and Vastra informs the Doctor that there have been similar murders recently. The Doctor vanishes thereafter and Clara becomes a temporary member of the Paternoster Gang, working with them in an effort to locate the Doctor and investigate the dinosaur's death. Together, they find a message in a newspaper directed at Clara, leading to her reunion with the Doctor. The Doctor and Clara go searching for the culprit; when they are about to be killed by robots, the Paternoster Gang rescue them, fighting along with Clara until the Doctor defeats their leader, leading all robots to be deactivated and saving his friends. After the Doctor takes off, leaving Clara in Victorian London, Clara asks Vastra if she can stay with them. Vastra states that she is of course welcome, but she should have no doubt of the Doctor's return. The Doctor then indeed comes back to pick her up, and they leave the house to bring Clara back home.\n\n\nMcIntosh previously appeared in the series portraying two other Silurian female characters, sisters Alaya and Restac, in the two-part story \"The Hungry Earth\"/\"Cold Blood\" (2010).\n\nStarkey previously played Commander Skorr, one of the Sontarans, in the two-part story re-introducing the species, \"The Sontaran Stratagem\"/\"The Poison Sky\" (2008). He also portrayed another Sontaran character in \"The End of Time\" (2009–10) and in between appearances as Strax in \"The Name of the Doctor\" (2013) and \"Deep Breath\" (2014), he played two more Sontarans in \"The Time of the Doctor\" (2013).\n\nIn November 2013, the long-running children's show \"Blue Peter\" announced a competition for fans aged 6–15 to design 'sonic devices' for the characters, with the three winning designs appearing in Series 8. The following month the winning entries were revealed as a Sonic Hatpin, Sonic Gauntlet, and Sonic Lorgnette for Vastra, Jenny, and Strax respectively. The devices were featured in \"Deep Breath\".\n\nIn an interview in the \"Doctor Who Magazine\" issue dated April 2015, Steven Moffat said that the BBC suggested a spin-off series about the characters, but he rejected the idea due to his other commitments.\n\nThe three characters have met with positive reviews from critics who praised their chemistry, as well as the humour concerning Strax and his Sontaran warrior habits, often at odds with the context. Nick Setchfield of \"SFX\" called Strax \"just the right side of crowdpleasing.\" Discussing their first appearance in \"A Good Man Goes to War\", Dan Martin from \"The Guardian\" called the three \"the finest thing about it, lighting up the screen with every appearance.\" He called their return in \"The Snowmen\" wonderful, calling Strax \"scene-stealingly adorable\". He also stated \"with marriage equality so much on the agenda, the divine Vastra and Jenny can only be a good thing to have on screens at tea time.\"\n"}
{"id": "10607472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10607472", "title": "Manitou", "text": "Manitou\n\nManitou (), akin to the Iroquois \"orenda\", is the spiritual and fundamental life force among Algonquian groups in the Native American mythology. It is omnipresent and manifests everywhere: organisms, the environment, events, etc. \"Aashaa monetoo\" means \"good spirit\", while \"otshee monetoo\" means \"bad spirit.\" When the world was created, the Great Spirit, \"Aasha Monetoo\", gave the land to the indigenous peoples, the Shawnee in particular.\n\nThe term \"manitou\" was already in widespread use at the time of early European contact. In 1585, when Thomas Harriot recorded the first glossary of an Algonquian language, Roanoke (Pamlico), he included the word \"mantóac\", meaning \"gods\" (plural). Similar terms are found in nearly all of the Algonquian languages.\n\nIn some Algonquian traditions, \"Gitche Manitou\" refers to a \"great spirit\" or supreme being. The term has analogues dating to before European contact, and the word uses of \"gitche\" and \"manitou\" themselves existed prior to contact. After contact, however, \"Gitche Manitou\" was adopted by some Anishinaabe Christian groups, such as the Ojibwe, to refer to the monotheistic God of Abrahamic tradition, often due to missionary syncretism.\n\nAlgonquian religion acknowledges shamans, or medicine men, who used manitou to see the future, change the weather, and heal illness. Ojibwe shamans were primarily healers who used their spiritual connection to cure patients, since illness was believed to be caused by magic and spirits. To communicate with spirits and manipulate manitou, a shaman would enter a trance, induced by singing, dancing, drum beats, or the use of hallucinogens. Non-shamans could also interact with spirits by embarking upon a \"vision quest,\" by means of prayer, fasting, hallucinogens, and/or removing themselves from the society of others. A person who underwent vision quests would be visited by an \"animal, voice, or object,\" which would become his (or her) guardian spirit.\n\nIn shamanistic tradition, manitous (or \"manidoog\", or \"manidoowag\") are connected to achieve a desired effect; plant manitous may be connected for healing, or buffalo manitous for a good hunt. In the Anishinaabeg tradition, \"manidoowag\" are one aspect of the Great Connection. The Anishinaabeg use the term \"manidoowish\" to speak of small animal \"manidoowag\", and \"manidoons\" to speak of insect \"manidoowag\". Both \"manidoowish\" and \"manidoons\" mean \"little spirit.\"\n\nManitou has made its way into the names of several places in North America. The name of Lake Manitoba (for which the Canadian province of Manitoba is named) derives from the area called \"manitou-wapow\", or \"strait of the Manitou\" in Cree or Ojibwe, referring to the strange sound of waves crashing against rocks near the Narrows of the lake. Manitoba is also home to Whiteshell Provincial Park’s petroforms, symbols made from rocks, which serve as reminders of the instructions given to the Anishinaabe by the Creator. The Anishinaabe Midewiwin, or Grand Medicine Society, considers the area containing the petroforms to be Manito Ahbee, the place where God sits. It is the site where the original Anishinaabe was lowered from the sky to the ground by the Creator.\n\nManitoulin Island, called \"mnidoo mnis\", or \"island of the Great Spirit,\" by the Odawa, is very important to the Ojibwe, or Anishinaabe, because of its many sacred sites and sounding rocks. Native peoples continue to dwell on the island, which is host to several reserves.\n\nThe Fox Indians, or Meskwaki, believed that the manitou dwelt in the stones of the sweat lodge. When the lodge stove was lit and water was sprinkled on the stones, manitou left those stones in the steam from the evaporating water and entered the body of the person in the lodge. Manitou then migrated throughout the person’s body, driving out everything that inflicted pain. Before the manitou returned to the stone, it imparted some of its nature to the body, which, according to the Fox Indians, was why one felt so well after having been in the sweat lodge.\n\nIn Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore, the Manitou Islands and the water body between them and the mainland, the Maintou Passage; are named for Manitou.\n"}
{"id": "37915789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37915789", "title": "Maria Apollonio", "text": "Maria Apollonio\n\nMaria Apollonio (13 June 1919 – 1990) was an Italian sprinter.\n\nShe won bronze medal in the 4×100 metres relay, first medal of ever for the Italian women in a relay race, at the 1938 European Athletics Championships in Vienna, with Maria Alfero, Rosetta Cattaneo and Italia Lucchini She has 3 caps in national team from 1937 to 1938.\n\n"}
{"id": "37066561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37066561", "title": "Murder of Paul Quinn", "text": "Murder of Paul Quinn\n\nPaul Quinn (c. 1986 – 20 October 2007) was a young man from County Armagh in Northern Ireland who was murdered in 2007. His family subsequently accused the Provisional Irish Republican Army of his murder, though no-one has ever been convicted in relation to his death.\n\nOn 20 October 2007, a native of Cullyhanna, County Armagh, Paul Quinn, then 21 years old, was lured to a farm at Tullycoora, near Oram in County Monaghan, where three of his friends were held hostage. When he arrived at the farm, a group of some ten or more men beat him with iron and nail-studded bars for upwards of half an hour, breaking every major bone in his body. Quinn was taken at around 18:00 to Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital, Drogheda, where he died two hours later.\n\nQuinn's parents, Breege and Stephen, have said that members of the Provisional IRA South Armagh Brigade were responsible. Their son had had \"run-ins with the Cullyhanna ASU on a number of occasions\", and had \"floored\" the son of one of the active service unit (ASU) leaders in a pub row.\n\nFollowing the incident, the mother of the young man appeared at Quinn's family home with a hammer in her hand and told the family their son would have to leave Ireland. The murder is believed to have arisen as a result of a dispute between Quinn and the local IRA.\n\nIn November 2007, the Independent Monitoring Commission's John Grieve, stated that \"We do believe that those involved ... included people who are members or former members, or have associations with members or former members, of the Provisional IRA.\"\n\nAn \"Irish Independent\" report of September 2007 stated: \n\nIn October 2011, his parents were featured in an RTÉ news report, stating they still believe people living locally \"know all about\" the murder and have called on them to go to An Garda Síochána or the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) to \"get it off their chest'.\"\n\nHis Eminence Seán Cardinal Brady, Archbishop of Armagh, spoke out against the murder and appealed for the arrest of those involved.\n\nIn November 2007, the Ulster Unionist Party peer, Lord Laird of Artigarvan, invoked parliamentary privilege in the House of Lords to name the alleged killers, stating that the killing arose from a dispute between Quinn and the son of Vincent Traynor, whom he described as \"a local IRA chief\". He also raised at Westminster allegations by the Quinn family and other locals that one of the men used as 'bait' in the Quinn death is under threat from the South Armagh Provisionals.\n\nThe murder of Paul Quinn led indirectly to the discovery of the body of another victim of the Provisional IRA, Gerard Evans, a 24 year old from Crossmaglen, who had gone missing after being kidnapped by the organisation in 1979. In 2009 the \"Sunday Tribune\" newspaper received information from an Irish republican and former IRA volunteer about the location of Evans' body, who stated that he had been influenced in coming forward by the circumstances of Paul Quinn's death. The information provided led to the location of Evans' body in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42129549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42129549", "title": "OpenNN", "text": "OpenNN\n\nOpenNN (Open Neural Networks Library) is a software library written in the C++ programming language which implements neural networks, a main area of deep learning research. The library is open-source, licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License.\n\nThe software implements any number of layers of non-linear processing units for supervised learning. This deep architecture allows the design of neural networks with universal approximation properties. Additionally, it allows multiprocessing programming by means of OpenMP, in order to increase computer performance.\n\nOpenNN contains data mining algorithms as a bundle of functions. These can be embedded in other software tools, using an application programming interface, for the integration of the predictive analytics tasks. In this regard, a graphical user interface is missing but some functions can be supported by specific visualization tools.\n\nThe development started in 2003 at the International Center for Numerical Methods in Engineering (CIMNE), within the research project funded by the European Union called RAMFLOOD (Risk Assessment and Management of FLOODs). Then it continued as part of similar projects.\nAt present, OpenNN is being developed by the startup company Artelnics.\n\nOpenNN is a general purpose artificial intelligence software package. It uses machine learning techniques for solving data mining and predictive analytics tasks in different fields. For instance, the library has been applied in the engineering, energy, or chemistry sectors.\n\n"}
{"id": "45699701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45699701", "title": "Osama bin Laden as the Crucified Christ", "text": "Osama bin Laden as the Crucified Christ\n\n\"Osama bin Laden as the Crucified Christ\" is a single from Against Me!, released on 7\" coloured vinyl on April 18, 2015, on Total Treble Music, as a limited edition for Record Store Day 2015. The track, which originally appeared on the 2014 album \"Transgender Dysphoria Blues\", appears in two versions: a live version, from \"23 Live Sex Acts\", and an exclusive alternate version referred to as the \"extra dysphoric version\" performed solely by frontwoman Laura Jane Grace.\n\nThe single was released as a limited-edition 7\" single for Record Store Day. The song, before its album was released in 2014, was first played in January 2012 at Slamdance Film Festival. As the title suggests, the song refers to the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and the death of Osama bin Laden in 2011. The lyrics also refer to executions of Benito Mussolini and his mistress Claretta \"Clara\" Petacci, as well as the public display of their corpses in Piazzale Loreto, in 1945.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "179628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179628", "title": "Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America", "text": "Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America\n\nPharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA, pronounced ), formerly known as the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, is a trade group representing companies in the pharmaceutical industry in the United States founded in 1958. PhRMA's stated mission is advocacy for public policies that encourage the discovery of new medicines for patients by companies engaged in pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical research. Steve Ubl became PhRMA's chairman in September 2015. PhRMA is headquartered in Washington, DC.\n\nGeorge A. Scangos, CEO of Biogen, is chairman of the PhRMA board. Joaquin Duato, chairman of Johnson & Johnson's pharmaceutical division, is chairman-elect and Joseph Jimenez, CEO of Novartis, is board treasurer.\n\nPrevious leadership includes: John J. Castellani, formerly head of the Business Roundtable, a U.S. advocacy and lobbying group and Billy Tauzin, a former Republican congressman from Louisiana.\n\nThe company has notably opposed market pricing strategies of Valeant Pharmaceuticals, deriding the firm as having a strategy \"reflective of a hedge fund\".\n\nSMARxT Disposal is a joint program run by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the American Pharmacists Association, and PhRMA to encourage consumers to properly dispose of unused medicines to avoid harm to the environment.\n\nThe Partnership for Prescription Assistance is a program by PhRMA and its member companies that connects patients in-need with information on low-cost and free prescription medication. PhRMA has in 2017 raised concerns over price increases for generic drugs out of patent by the company Marathon Pharmaceuticals over Duchenne muscular dystrophy treatment.\n\nThe company has advocated abroad in South Africa regarding pharmaceutical drug intellectual property rules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "169086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169086", "title": "Prenatal care", "text": "Prenatal care\n\nPrenatal care, also known as antenatal care, is a type of preventive healthcare. Its goal is to provide regular check-ups that allow doctors or midwives to treat and prevent potential health problems throughout the course of the pregnancy and to promote healthy lifestyles that benefit both mother and child. During check-ups, pregnant women receive medical information over maternal physiological changes in pregnancy, biological changes, and prenatal nutrition including prenatal vitamins. Recommendations on management and healthy lifestyle changes are also made during regular check-ups. The availability of routine prenatal care, including prenatal screening and diagnosis, has played a part in reducing the frequency of maternal death, miscarriages, birth defects, low birth weight, neonatal infections and other preventable health problems.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) reported that in 2015 around 830 women died every day from problems in pregnancy and childbirth. Only 5 lived in high-income countries. The rest lived in low-income countries.\n\nA study examined the differences in early and low-weight birth deliveries between local and immigrant women and saw the difference caused by prenatal care received. The study, between 1997 and 2008, looked at 21,708 women giving birth in a region of Spain. The results indicated that very preterm birth (VPTB) and very low birth weight (VLBW) were much more common for immigrants than locals (Castelló et al., 2012). The study showed the importance of prenatal care and how universal prenatal care would help people of all origins get proper care before pregnancy/birth (Castelló et al., 2012).\n\nThe WHO recommends that pregnant women should all receive four antenatal visits to spot and treat problems and give immunizations. Although antenatal care is important to improve the health of both mother and baby, many women do not receive four visits.\n\nThere are many ways of changing health systems to help women access antenatal care, such as new health policies, educating health workers and health service reorganisation. Community interventions to help people change their behavior can also play a part. Examples of interventions are media campaigns reaching many people, enabling communities to take control of their own health, informative-education-communication interventions and financial incentives. A review looking at these interventions found that one intervention helps improve the number of women receiving antenatal care. However interventions used together may reduce baby deaths in pregnancy and early life, lower numbers of low birth weight babies born and improve numbers of women receiving antenatal care.\n\nTraditional prenatal care in high-income countries generally consists of:\n\nThe traditional form of antenatal care has developed from the early 1900s and there is very little research to suggest that it is the best way of giving antenatal care. Antenatal care can be costly and uses a lot of staff. The following paragraphs describe research on other forms of antenatal care, which may reduce the burden on maternity services in all countries.\n\nThere is not a lot of evidence behind the number of antenatal visits, pregnant women receive and what care and information is given at each visit. It has been suggested that women who have low-risk pregnancies should have a less antenatal visits. However, when this was tested, women with less visits had babies who were much more likely to be admitted to neonatal intensive care and stay there for longer (though this could down to chance results). 14% more babies died compared with those whose mothers had a standard number of visits. Women who had less antenatal visits were not as satisfied with the care they received compared with women who had the standard number of visits. A new alternative for some of the routine prenatal care visits is Telemedicine.\n\nGroup antenatal care has a couple of obvious benefits: it costs less than one-to-one visits and the women have more hours of care as a group than on their own. Only small studies have been conducted looking at group care but they have found that mothers’ knew more about pregnancy, birth and parenting in the group setting. The mothers reported liking the group care and the review found no difference between how the pregnancies developed between the group and individual setting.\n\nMidwife-led care for low-risk women is where a midwife team (and GP if needed) is leading the care a woman receives and she does not usually see a specialist doctor in her pregnancy. Women with midwife-led pregnancies are more likely to give birth without being induced but have natural labours. However they are less likely to have their waters broken, an instrumental delivery, episiotomy or preterm birth. Around the same number of women in each group had a caesarean section.\n\nAt the initial antenatal care visit and with the aid of a special booking checklist the pregnant women become classified into either normal risk or high risk.\n\nIn many countries, women are given a summary of their case notes including important background information about their pregnancy for example their medical history, growth charts and any scan reports. If the mother goes to a different hospital for care or to give birth the summary of her case notes can be used by the midwives and doctors until her hospital notes arrive.\n\nA review looking into women keeping their own case notes shows they have more risk of having a caesarean section. However the women reported feeling more in control having their notes and would like to have them again in future pregnancies. 25% of women reported their hospital notes were lost in hospital though none of the women forgot to take their own notes to any appointments.\n\nPrenatal diagnosis or prenatal screening (note that \"Prenatal Diagnosis\" and \"Prenatal Screening\" refer to two different types of tests) is testing for diseases or conditions in a fetus or embryo before it is born. Obstetricians and midwives have the ability to monitor mother's health and prenatal development during pregnancy through series of regular check-ups.\n\nPhysical examinations generally consist of:\n\nIn some countries, such as the UK, the symphysial fundal height (SFH) is measured as part of antenatal appointments from 25 weeks gestation. (The SFH is measured from the woman’s pubic bone to the top of the uterus). A review into this practice found only one piece of research so there is not enough evidence to say whether measuring the SFH helps to detect small or large babies. As measuring the SFH is not costly and is used in many places, the review recommends carrying on this practice.\n\nGrowth charts are a way of detecting small babies by the measuring the SFH. There are two types of growth chart: \nA review looking into which of these charts detected small babies found that there is no good quality research to show which is best. More research is needed before the customized growth charts are recommended because they cost more money and take more time for the health care workers to make.\n\nUltrasound\nObstetric ultrasounds are most commonly performed during the second trimester at approximately week 20. Ultrasounds are considered relatively safe and have been used for over 35 years for monitoring pregnancy.\nAmong other things, ultrasounds are used to:\n\nGenerally an ultrasound is ordered whenever an abnormality is suspected or along a schedule similar to the following:\n\nA review looking at routine ultrasounds past 24 weeks found that there is no evidence to show any benefits to the mother or the baby.\n\nEarly scans mean that multiple pregnancies can be detected at an early stage of pregnancy and also gives more accurate due dates so that less women are induced who do not need to be.\n\nLevels of feedback from the ultrasound can differ. High feedback is when the parents can see the screen and are given a detailed description of what they can see. Low feedback is when the findings are discussed at the end and the parents are given a picture of the ultrasound. The different ways of giving feedback affect how much the parents worry and the mother’s health behaviour although there is not enough evidence to make clear conclusions. In a small study, mothers receiving high feedback were more likely to stop smoking and drinking alcohol however the quality of the study is low and more research is needed to say for certain which type of feedback is better.\n\nWomen experiencing a complicated pregnancy may have a test called a Doppler ultrasound to look at the blood flow to their unborn baby. This is performed to detect signs that the baby is not getting a normal blood flow and therefore is ‘at risk’. A review looked at performing Doppler ultrasounds on all women even if they were at ‘low-risk’ of having complications. The review found that routine Doppler ultrasounds may have reduced preventable numbers of baby deaths but the evidence was not strong enough to recommend that they should be made routine for all pregnant women.\n\nProper prenatal care affects all women of various social backgrounds. While availability of such services have considerable personal health and social benefits, socioeconomic problems prevent its universal adoption in both developing and developed nations, such as the US. Although women can benefit by utilizing prenatal care services, there exists various levels of health care accessibility between different demographics throughout the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1235618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1235618", "title": "Roger Williamson", "text": "Roger Williamson\n\nRoger Williamson (2 February 1948 – 29 July 1973) was a British racing driver who died during the 1973 Dutch Grand Prix at Zandvoort Circuit in the Netherlands.\n\nWilliamson was born in Ashby-de-la-Zouch, Leicestershire. He won the 1971 and 1972 British Formula 3 Championship titles. In 1973, he was offered a drive in the March Engineering works Formula One team.\nThis was after testing for the BRM team and being advised not to take the drive.\n\nAfter his Formula One debut at the 1973 British Grand Prix, Williamson's second Formula One appearance was at the 1973 Dutch Grand Prix at Zandvoort Circuit. On his eighth lap, a suspected tyre failure caused his car to flip upside down and catch fire. Williamson had not been seriously injured by the impact, but was trapped under the car which was swiftly engulfed in flame. The track marshals were both poorly trained and badly equipped, and did not assist him. Another driver, David Purley, upon witnessing the crash of his friend, abandoned his own race and pulled over in a desperate and valiant attempt to rescue Williamson. He ran across the track to Williamson's car and tried to turn it upright, before grabbing a fire extinguisher from a marshal and returning to the engulfed car. He emptied it on the car and signalled for others to help. Purley's efforts to turn the car upright and extinguish the flames were in vain, and the marshals were unable to handle the vehicle without flame retardant overalls. Purley later stated he could hear Williamson's screams from underneath the car, but by the time the first fire engine arrived and the fire was extinguished, Williamson had died of asphyxiation. As most racers mistakenly identified Purley as the driver of the crashed car, and therefore thought the burning car to be empty, none of them stopped to help and the race continued, even as Purley stood on the circuit and gestured with his hands for them to stop. Furthermore, the track marshals were wearing normal blazers and not the fire-resistant overalls which the drivers wore, and thus were not able to go near the large flames. Purley was later awarded the George Medal for the bravery he displayed in attempting to rescue Williamson. A series of photos of the incident, showing a clearly desperate and ultimately dejected Purley, won that year's World Press Photo award for Photo Sequences. Williamson's incinerated remains would later be cremated with his ashes being sent to an undisclosed area. In the years following the accident, fire-resistant clothing would become mandatory for all trackside marshals so that they would be able to assist in the event of a fire. The next few years also saw a noticeable increase in drivers stopping at accident sites to assist in rescue efforts, notably at the 1976 German Grand Prix.\n\nIn 2003, on the thirtieth anniversary of his fatal crash, a bronze statue of Williamson was unveiled at the Donington Park circuit in his native Leicestershire. Then-owner Tom Wheatcroft had provided financial backing to Williamson, and described the day Williamson died as \"the saddest day of my life\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49815484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49815484", "title": "SS Benjamin Noble", "text": "SS Benjamin Noble\n\nThe SS \"Benjamin Noble\" was a lake freighter that operated on the Great Lakes. Built in 1909 by the Detroit Shipbuilding Company, she was in length and had a beam of . She was built as a \"canaller,\" a vessel designed for use in what were then the dimensions of the Welland Canal, but was converted by her owners for services in the open Great Lakes. Heavily laden and top-heavy with a cargo of railroad rails, she sank in Lake Superior near Knife River, Minnesota, in April 1914 with the loss of all hands in a storm. Of the estimated 16 crew members, only about the names of 10 are known. On April 29, 1914 it was reported several crewmembers' remains were found on a sand reef near Minnesota Reef.\n\nAfter more than 90 years as a ghost ship, the hulk of the \"Benjamin Noble\" was rediscovered in the autumn of 2004. The wreck was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2007 as NRHP site #07000984.\n\nThe \"Benjamin Noble\" was unique among Lake freighters because her stern cabins were elevated on a poop deck. Her bow cabins were also elevated on a forecastle deck. This also meant that she sat quite low in the water meaning that her spar deck often got wet. Maritime historian Dwight Boyer attributes the 1914 loss of the vessel to a combination of deliberate cargo overloading and the ship's unusual design. On her last voyage the low-riding vessel had very little freeboard and was vulnerable to swamping.\n\nIn the Autumn of 2004 a shipwreck research team consisting of Jerry Eliason, Kraig Smith, Ken Merryman and Randy Beebe were searching for the \"Robert Wallace\" when their side scan sonar picked up the outlines of a shipwreck. Randy Beebe describes the event:\nIt was the last pass of the day, which was going to be the last day of the search season. We were just going to pull up the side-scan sonar and head in, and we noticed a target on the screen. So right away we headed over there and investigated it more with the side-scan sonar, and sure enough we had a shipwreck.\nThe team was expecting to see the \"Wallace\", but the ship they found was made of steel. They were able to lower a camera into the cargo hold of the mystery ship. They saw railroad cars full of railroad tracks, this confirmed that the wreck was that of the long lost \"Benjamin Noble\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4082701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4082701", "title": "Shooting reconstruction", "text": "Shooting reconstruction\n\nShooting incident reconstruction is the examination of the physical evidence recovered or documented at the scene of a shooting. Shooting reconstruction may also include the laboratory analysis of the evidence recovered at the scene. The goal is an attempt to gain an understanding of what may or may not have happened during the incident. Once all reasonable explanations have been considered, one can evaluate the significance of witness or suspect accounts of the incident.\n\nIn many cases valuable evidence necessary for reconstruction analysis exists at the crime scene. Should this evidence go undocumented or unrecovered during the initial processing of the shooting scene, the information it can give investigators may be lost forever. Poor shooting incident processing can not be compensated for by excellent laboratory work.\n\nThere are many questions that can be answered from the proper reconstruction of a shooting incident. Some of the questions typically answered by a shooting reconstruction investigation include (but not limited to) the distance of the shooter from the target, The path of the bullet(s), The number of shots fired and possibly the sequence of multiple discharges at a shooting incident.\n\nThe Association of Firearm and Tool Mark Examiners is an international non-profit organization dedicated to the advancement of firearm and tool mark identification, including shooting reconstruction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2242794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242794", "title": "Specious present", "text": "Specious present\n\nThe specious present is the time duration wherein one's perceptions are considered to be in the present. Time perception studies the sense of time, which differs from other senses since time cannot be directly perceived but must be reconstructed by the brain.\n\nThe term was coined by E. Robert Kelly, better known under the pseudonym \"E. R. Clay\".\nThe concept was further developed by philosopher William James. James defined the specious present to be \"the prototype of all conceived times... the short duration of which we are immediately and incessantly sensible\". C. D. Broad in \"Scientific Thought\" (1930) further elaborated on the concept of the specious present, and considered that the Specious Present may be considered as the temporal equivalent of a sensory datum.\n\nFinally, the claim of what precisely is being affirmed, in affirming the 'existence' of the specious present, is difficult to clarify. Philosophical theories of time do not usually interpret time to be in any unique way a production of human phenomenology, and the claim that we have some faculty by which we are aware of successive states of consciousness is trivially true.\n\n"}
{"id": "29042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29042", "title": "Superfetation", "text": "Superfetation\n\nSuperfetation (also spelled superfoetation and superfœtation – see fetus) is the simultaneous occurrence of more than one stage of developing offspring in the same animal. It is not believed that it occurs naturally in humans. There have been 10 reported cases of possible superfetation in humans.\n\nIn mammals, it manifests as the formation of an embryo from a different estrous cycle while another embryo or fetus is already present in the uterus. When two separate instances of fertilisation occur during the same menstrual cycle, it is known as superfecundation.\n\nSuperfetation is claimed to be common in some species of animals. In mammals, it can occur only where there are two uteri, or where the estrous cycle continues through pregnancy.\n\nAnimals that have been claimed to be subject to superfetation include rodents (mice and rats), rabbits, horse, sheep, marsupials (kangaroos and sugar gliders), felines, and primates (humans). Superfetation has also been clearly demonstrated and is normal for some species of poeciliid fishes.\n\nWhile proposed cases of superfetation have been reported in humans, the existence of this phenomenon in humans is deemed unlikely. Better explanations include differential growth between twins due to various reasons such as twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome. Artificially induced superfetation has been demonstrated, although only up to a short period after insemination.\n\nIn 2017, it was reported that an American woman who had agreed to act as a surrogate for a Chinese couple birthed two babies initially believed to be twins. Before the adoptive parents could return home to China, however, it was discovered that one of the babies was in fact the biological son of the surrogate. Doctors confirmed that the birth-mother had become pregnant with her and her partner's child roughly three weeks after becoming pregnant with the Chinese couple's child.\n\nThere have been multiple cases reported to local US doctors with a week or less difference in age of twins and women who report two surges of ovulation occurring within a few days of each other. Though rare, this condition is believe to effect as many as .3% of women but often one twin is lost so the true numbers are not known. Research has found 10% of women ovulate twice per month. \n\n"}
{"id": "3281734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3281734", "title": "Teddy Sheean", "text": "Teddy Sheean\n\nEdward \"Teddy\" Sheean (28 December 1923 – 1 December 1942) was a sailor in the Royal Australian Navy during the Second World War. Born in Tasmania, Sheean was employed as a farm labourer when he enlisted in the Royal Australian Naval Reserve in April 1941. Following training at HMAS \"Derwent\" and the Flinders Naval Depot, he was posted to Sydney, where he joined the newly commissioned corvette HMAS \"Armidale\" in June 1942. Sheean served aboard \"Armidale\" as she initially took part in escort duties along the eastern Australian coast and in New Guinea waters, before he transferred with the ship to Darwin in October, where \"Armidale\" was given the task of assisting Australian operations in Timor.\n\nOn 29 November 1942, \"Armidale\" set out for an operation to Betano, Timor, along with HMAS \"Castlemaine\". The two ships were attacked by Japanese aircraft along the way, and were subsequently late in arriving at their destination, missing a planned rendezvous with HMAS \"Kuru\". While returning to Darwin, the pair encountered \"Kuru\" south of Betano and it was decided by \"Castlemaine\"s commanding officer—as the senior officer—that \"Armidale\" and \"Kuru\" should make for Betano. The two ships took different routes to Betano, during which both vessels came under aerial assault.\n\nDuring a subsequent confrontation with thirteen Japanese aircraft on 1 December, \"Armidale\" was struck by two torpedoes and a bomb, and began to sink; the order to abandon ship was given. After helping to free a life-raft, Sheean was wounded by two bullets. He made his way to the aft Oerlikon 20 mm cannon and began to fire on the Japanese aircraft to protect those in the water. Sheean managed to shoot down one of the Japanese bombers, but was killed when \"Armidale\" sank. Many of the survivors credited their lives to Sheean and he was posthumously mentioned in despatches. In 1999, the submarine HMAS \"Sheean\" was named in his honour, and efforts have been made to have Sheean awarded the Victoria Cross for Australia.\n\nSheean was born in Lower Barrington, Tasmania, on 28 December 1923, the youngest of fourteen children to James Sheean, a labourer, and his wife Mary Jane (née Broomhall). Soon after his birth, the Sheean family moved to Latrobe, where he was educated at the local Catholic school. Following the completion of his schooling, Sheean gained casual employment working on several farms in the vicinity of Latrobe and Merseylea.\n\nOn 21 April 1941, Sheean enlisted in the Royal Australian Naval Reserve. He had followed in the steps of five of his brothers who had already joined the armed forces—four in the Australian Army and one in the Royal Australian Navy—for service in the Second World War. Sheean was initially posted to the Hobart naval base HMAS \"Derwent\" for training, where he gained a period of seafaring experience aboard HMAS \"Coombar\", an auxiliary minesweeper, from 17–31 December. On finishing his initial training course, Sheean was attached to the Flinders Naval Depot in Western Port, Victoria, for further instruction from 11 February 1942.\n\nCompleting his course at the Flinders Naval Depot, Sheean was posted to the Garden Island naval base HMAS \"Penguin\" in Sydney Harbour on 11 May. During his time with \"Penguin\", he was billeted on the requisitioned ferry HMAS \"Kuttabul\". Granted a period of leave later that month, he returned home to Tasmania. While he was on leave, Japanese midget submarines attacked Sydney Harbour and sank \"Kuttabul\" on 31 May. Returning to Sydney eleven days after the raid, Sheean joined the newly commissioned HMAS \"Armidale\" as an Oerlikon anti-aircraft gun loader.\n\nLeaving Sydney Harbour in late August 1942, Sheean served aboard \"Armidale\" as she carried out \"relatively uneventful\" escort duties along the North Queensland, Port Moresby and Milne Bay coasts over the subsequent two months. During October, \"Armidale\" was ordered to Darwin. Setting sail, she arrived on 7 November and was detailed to assist in the Australian operations in Timor.\n\nOn 24 November 1942, the evacuation of the 2/2nd Australian Independent Company from Timor along with 150 Portuguese people was approved by the Allied Land Forces Headquarters. In response to this, Commodore Cuthbert Pope, the Naval Officer-in-Charge Darwin, organised an operation utilizing HMA Ships \"Kuru\", \"Castlemaine\" and \"Armidale\". The operation was to involve the three ships undertaking two voyages each, the first to take place on the night of 30 November/1 December and involve a trip to Betano, Timor, in which the ships were to land 50 fresh Dutch guerrillas in the area along with supplies, and simultaneously withdraw 190 Dutch soldiers as well as the 150 Portuguese refugees. The second excursion was to be carried out on the night of 4/5 December, and entail the extraction of the 2/2nd Independent Company.\n\nAt 22:30 on 28 November 1942, \"Kuru\" set sail for Betano. \"Kuru\" was scheduled to arrive at approximately 20:30 on 30 November, where she was to unload the supplies on board and embark the Portuguese refugees, which were to transfer to \"Castlemaine\" once she arrived along with \"Armidale\" two hours later. However, \"Kuru\" hit bad weather during her voyage and arrived at Betano three hours late. \"Armidale\"—with two Dutch Army officers, 61 Netherlands East Indies troops and three Australian Army soldiers aboard—and \"Castlemaine\" set sail from Darwin at 01:42 on 29 November. At approximately 09:15 on 30 November, while from their destination, the two ships were attacked by a single Japanese aircraft. Having missed with several bombs, the aircraft flew off in the direction of Timor an hour later. Fearing that their discovery by this aircraft would jeopardise the mission, \"Castlemaine\"s Commanding Officer, Lieutenant Commander Philip Sullivan, ordered evasive action and signalled Darwin for further orders. A signal returned decreeing that the operation must proceed and a party of fighter aircraft were to be dispatched as protective cover.\n\nContinuing in their voyage, \"Armidale\" and \"Castlemaine\" were attacked twice more by air, each time by a formation of bombers that bombed and machine-gunned the ships. Despite this, neither ship suffered damage or casualties and both arrived at Betano at 03:30 on 1 December, however there was no sign of \"Kuru\". Having made sure that \"Kuru\" was not in the bay, the two corvettes decided to abandon the mission and sailed south in order to return to Darwin. \"Kuru\"s commanding officer, Lieutenant John Grant, had loaded 77 of the Portuguese refugees as well as one critically injured Australian soldier on board the ship and set sail at around 02:00 on 1 December from Betano, fearing he had missed the rendezvous with the other two ships. While approximately south of Betano, \"Armidale\" and \"Castlemaine\" sighted \"Kuru\", and the three ships closed by dawn.\n\nFollowing the transfer of passengers from \"Kuru\" to \"Castlemaine\", the former received orders that she was to return to Betano that evening \"and do the job tonight\". At this time, a formation of Japanese aircraft was spotted and \"Kuru\" sailed for cover. Assessing the situation, Sullivan—as senior officer—decided that \"Armidale\" would accompany \"Kuru\" in order to unload the former's passengers at Betano while \"Castlemaine\" returned to Darwin. \"Armidale\" and \"Kuru\" assumed separate routes to Betano, and at approximately 13:00 \"Armidale\" was attacked by a party of five Japanese bombers; the explosives, however, fell wide of their target. At 13:58, \"Armidale\" reported that she was under attack from \"nine bombers, four fighters\" over the Arafura Sea.\n\n\"Armidale\" undertook evasive action, manoeuvring frantically to avoid the aerial attack. However, at 15:15, the vessel was struck by two air-launched torpedoes, one hitting her port side and the other colliding with the engineering spaces, before a bomb exploded aft. \"Armidale\" listed sharply to port at this stage, and the order was given to abandon ship. As the crew leapt into the sea, they were strafed by the attacking aircraft. Sheean—after assisting to free a life-raft—was hit by two bullets from one of the aircraft, wounding him in the chest and back. Scrambling across the deck, he strapped himself into the aft Oerlikon 20 mm cannon and began shooting at the fighters in an effort to protect some of the sailors already in the sea. Subject to the fire from Sheean's Oerlikon, the Japanese aircraft were kept at bay and were unable to effectively strafe those in the water.\n\nWith \"Armidale\" rapidly sinking, Sheean continued to fire and managed to shoot down one of the Japanese bombers. He damaged a further two aircraft before \"Armidale\"s stern was engulfed by the sea. Despite this, Sheean maintained his fire as the water rose above his feet, and remained firing as he \"disappeared beneath the waves\". Sheean's crewmates later testified to witnessing tracers rising from beneath the water's surface as Sheean was dragged under.\n\nSheean was among 100 of the original 149 people on board HMAS \"Armidale\" at the time of the attack who were killed during the ship's sinking and its aftermath. Many of the survivors attributed their lives to Sheean. For his \"bravery and devotion when HMAS \"Armidale\" was lost\", Sheean's actions were recognised with a posthumous Mention in Despatches, awarded on the recommendation of \"Armidale\"s commanding officer, Lieutenant Commander David Richards, and announced in a supplement to \"The London Gazette\" on 29 June 1943. However, many hold the opinion that Sheean's gallantry, devotion to duty and self-sacrifice were worthy of the Victoria Cross, with author Robert Macklin stating his \"actions were in the highest tradition of the Australian military\" and comparing them with those of Vietnam War Victoria Cross recipient Kevin Wheatley.\n\nOn 1 May 1999, the submarine was launched by Ivy Hayes—sister of Teddy Sheean—named in the ordinary seaman's honour. \"Sheean\" was subsequently commissioned into the Royal Australian Navy on 23 February 2001, and was the first Royal Australian Navy vessel to be named in honour of a naval rating. Carrying the motto \"Fight On\", the vessel was one of six s entered into service. Later that year, a Bill was introduced into the Australian Senate to have three awards of the Victoria Cross for Australia made, one being to Sheean. The Bill came as part of a campaign by the then-leader of the Australian Labor Party and Federal Opposition, Kim Beazley, to secure more rights for war veterans. However, it was subsequently rejected by the Liberal Government. A painting depicting Sheean's final moments is held by the Australian War Memorial. His home town of Latrobe commemorates his life via the \"Sheean Walk\" and \"Teddy Sheean Memorial\", opened in 1992. In 2003, the Australian Navy Cadets established a training ship at Tewantin, Queensland, called NTS \"Sheean\" in his honour.\n\nIn 2011, at the direction of the Parliamentary Secretary for Defence, Senator David Feeney, the Defence Honours and Awards Appeals Tribunal opened an inquiry into thirteen cases of unresolved recognition for past acts of gallantry. Among the group were eleven naval personnel, including Sheean. Known as the 'Valour Inquiry', the Tribunal was directed to determine if the individuals were unduly overlooked for recognition at the time of their actions and, if so, whether retrospective awards were appropriate. The inquiry lasted two years and witnessed 166 written submissions from the public, before the Tribunal reported its findings in January 2013. In the case of Sheean, the Tribunal found that there was no manifest injustice with the award of the Mention in Despatches, and that there was no new evidence to support the reconsideration of Sheean for a Victoria Cross for Australia. If Sheean had lived, they reported, he might have been recommended for either the Conspicuous Gallantry Medal or the Distinguished Service Medal instead, but neither medal could be awarded posthumously in 1942. The Tribunal did recommend that the RAN perpetuate the use of Sheean as the name of a major combatant vessel.\n\n"}
{"id": "3951682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3951682", "title": "The Charge of the Light Brigade (poem)", "text": "The Charge of the Light Brigade (poem)\n\n\"The Charge of the Light Brigade\" is an 1854 narrative poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson about the Charge of the Light Brigade at the Battle of Balaclava during the Crimean War. He wrote it on December 2, 1854, and it was published on December 9, 1854 in \"The Examiner\". He was the Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom at the time.\n\nDuring the 1850s, when Great Britain was engaged in the Crimean War, Tennyson wrote several patriotic poems under various pseudonyms. Scholars speculate that Tennyson created his pen names because these verses used a traditional structure Tennyson employed in his earlier career but suppressed during the 1840s, worrying that poems like \"The Charge of the Light Brigade\" (which he initially signed only A.T.) \"might prove not to be decorous for a poet laureate\".\n\nThe poem was written after the Light Cavalry Brigade suffered great casualties in the Battle of Balaclava. Tennyson wrote the poem based on two articles published in \"The Times\": the first, published in November, 1854, provided the phrase \"Some one has blunder'd\" and thus the meter of the poem. The poem was written in a few minutes on December 2 of the same year, based on a recollection of that account; Tennyson wrote other similar poems, like \"Riflemen, form in town and in Shrine\" in a similar manner.\n\nTennyson made revisions to the poem due to criticisms by the American poet Frederick Goddard Tuckerman and others; these were published in Tennyson's volume \"Maud and Other Poems\". These changes were criticized by several, including both Tennyson and Tuckerman.\n\nTennyson sent a version of the poem, after correcting the revisions in \"Maud\", at the soldiers' request. There, it was distributed in pamphlet form at the behest of Jane, Lady Franklin. The same version was used for the second printing of \"Maud\".\n\nTennyson recited this poem onto a wax cylinder in 1890.\n\nRudyard Kipling wrote \"The Last of the Light Brigade\" (1891) some 40 years after the appearance of \"The Charge of the Light Brigade\". His poem focuses on the terrible hardships faced in old age by veterans of the Crimean War, as exemplified by the cavalry men of the Light Brigade. Its purpose was to shame the British public into offering financial assistance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1218096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218096", "title": "Walter Cook", "text": "Walter Cook\n\nWalter Cook VC (18 June 1834 – c. 1864) was an English recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest and most prestigious award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces.\n\nHe was about 25 years old, and a private in the 42nd Regiment (later The Black Watch (Royal Highlanders), British Army during the Indian Mutiny when the following deed took place on 15 January 1859 at Maylah Ghat, India for which he and Private Duncan Millar were awarded the VC:\nThe pipe tune \"Lawson's Men\" was written about the incident.\n\n"}
{"id": "2309394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2309394", "title": "Ådalen shootings", "text": "Ådalen shootings\n\nThe Ådalen shootings () was a series of events in and around the sawmill district of Ådalen, Kramfors Municipality, Ångermanland, Sweden, in May 1931. During a protest on 14 May, five people were killed by bullets fired by troops called in as reinforcements by the police.\n\nAs a response to a drawn-out industrial conflict over pay reductions at the pulp factory at Långrör, workers at other plants went on a sympathy strike. The owner of the Graninge company, Gerhard Versteegh, hired around 60 strike-breakers, who arrived in the village of Lunde in Ådalen on 12 May. The workers held a protest rally in Kramfors and marched to the Sandviken plant north of the town, where they approached and attacked some of the strike-breakers. Since the police had not been able to stop the attack, the County Administrative Board asked for the deployment of members of the military from Sollefteå to protect the strike-breakers. When the troops arrived in the late evening of 13 May, they were met by protesters, allegedly throwing stones.\n\nOn 14 May the unions held another rally, during which the attending workers decided to stop all work in the timber and pulp industries in Ådalen—a general strike. After the meeting, several thousand participants marched to the strike-breakers' quarters in Lunde, where the troops had been ordered to defend the strike-breakers. When they arrived in the village, a patrol of mounted troops tried unsuccessfully to stop them. In the confusion that followed, at least one man fell off his horse and another drew his pistol and fired warning shots while the patrol withdrew. The military commander, Capt. Nils Mesterton, said later that he believed the demonstrators carried weapons since he heard shots as well as seeing some of the mounted patrol bleeding. At a distance of less than 100 metres he, in accordance with orders from the present policeman in charge, ordered his troops to fire, which they did, aiming as planned at the ground halfway between the line and the demonstrators. However, ricochets hit the gathered demonstrators, who scattered, and the captain ordered the machine gun fired. Five people were shot to death: Oskar Berggren, Erik Bergström, Evert Nygren, Sture Larsson and Eira Söderberg, a 20-year-old bystander. Five people were injured. An inquiry later concluded that there was no evidence that the workers were in fact armed.\n\nOn that same day the County Administrative Board had decided to prohibit the strike-breakers from working. Their decision did not reach the demonstrators until after the shooting. It is widely believed that the confrontation could have been avoided if the news had reached the marchers earlier. The Swedish Employers' Association later asked the Swedish Parliamentary Ombudsmen to review the decision.\n\nThe events spawned a raging national debate, deeply divided along political lines. The political left called the shootings \"murder\", while the right claimed that the military had been forced to open fire to defend themselves and the \"willing workers\" from the rage of the demonstrators. The publishers of several left-wing newspapers were convicted for violations against the limitations in the Freedom of the Press Act. Major demonstrations took place in Stockholm.\n\nThe County Governor was tried in court but acquitted. Capt. Mesterton and Capt. Beckman were initially convicted in a court martial, but were acquitted on appeal and that verdict was confirmed by the supreme court. Sgt. Rask and Sgt. Tapper, who were manning the machine gun, were also put on trial since repositioning had been performed with a loaded weapon, which was against army regulations. Rask was acquitted while Tapper was found guilty and sentenced to three days' confined arrest with loss of pay. On the other hand, several demonstrators had to face severe sentences: Axel Nordström, considered to be the leader, was sentenced to two and half years' imprisonment with hard labor. No damages were awarded to the wounded demonstrators or to the families of the five dead.\n\nThe government, under the liberal Prime Minister Carl Gustaf Ekman, replaced the County Governor and launched an investigation into the event. The investigation, with representatives from both employers and trade unions, later concluded that the military was highly unfit to uphold public order in similar situations. The use of the military against civilians was more strictly regulated, but the legislation was on the books until it was repealed by the 1969 Riksdag. However, there was broad political agreement not to use military force against civilians. The Ådalen shootings were still a concern in the discussions after the 9/11 events in the US, when military support to the police was considered. Therefore, the subsequent legislation that allowed the military to take part in anti-terrorism actions contained several safeguards. The military must be under command of the police, as they were in Ådalen in 1931, and legislation specifically says that the military cannot be used against demonstrations. There was still concern that these safeguards would not be enough.\n\nAt the time of the 1931 events, it was not possible to call in police reinforcements from outside the county. Thus, army assistance was the only recourse available to a county governor when the county's police force would be insufficient to deal with large-scale events. The shootings highlighted the inadequacy of this state of affairs. One effect of the Ådalen shootings was the formation of a national police force in 1933.\n\nThe leadership of the Social Democratic banned members to attend the funerals of the killed protesters as they were regarded as collaborators with the revolutionary communist party.\n\nIn 1969 well-known Swedish filmmaker Bo Widerberg told the story of the events in his film \"Ådalen 31\" (released as \"Adalen Riots\" in the US). Partly thanks to the film and partly through the persistent use of the events in political debate, the Ådalen shootings are still well known in Sweden, and are sometimes referred to in connection with violent clashes between demonstrators and police such as the 2001 EU summit protests in Gothenburg.\n\nThe incident is also mentioned several times in the 1979 Swedish comedy film \"Repmånad\".\n"}
