{"id": "29671148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29671148", "title": "'Abd Allah ibn 'Amr ibn al-'As", "text": "'Abd Allah ibn 'Amr ibn al-'As\n\n'Abd Allah ibn 'Amr ibn al-'As (died 684 CE/65 AH, the son of 'Amr ibn al-'As of Banu Sahm) was a companion of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. He was the author of \"\"Al-Sahifah al-Sadiqah\" (\"The Truthful Script\"\", ), a hadith compilation document which recorded about one thousand of Muhammad's narrations.\n\nHe embraced Islam in the year 7 AH a year before his father did, Amr ibn al-'As. The prophet Muhammad used to show preference to Abd Allah ibn 'Amr due to his knowledge. He was one of the first companions to write down the Hadith, after receiving permission from prophet Muhammad to do so. Abu Huraira used to say that Abd Allah ibn 'Amr was more knowledgeable than him.\n\nHis work Al-Sahifah al-Sadiqah remained in his family and was used by his grandson 'Amr ibn Shu'ayb. Ahmad ibn Hanbal incorporated the whole of the work of Abd Allah ibn 'Amr in his voluminous book Musnad Ahmad ibn Hanbal thereby covering up for the missing Al-Sahifah al-Sadiqah which was written in the days of Prophet Muhammad.\n"}
{"id": "59211433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59211433", "title": "88Rackz", "text": "88Rackz\n\nPerry Shaw (born Jan 21, 1994), professionally known as 88Rackz, is an English record producer from Milton Keynes, United Kingdom.\n\nBorn in Slough, United Kingdom, Rackz speaks of first being inspired to produce music at the age of 21 shortly after moving to Milton Keynes. He started out producing on FL Studio (formerly known as FruityLoops) which is a digital audio workstation developed by the Belgian company Image-Line.\n\nAfter teaching himself the basics of FL Studio, Rackz began to spend a lot of time learning the art of producing & then began to publish his material on YouTube and beat selling platforms.\n\nIn August 2018, Rackz began working with Sacramento, California rapper E Mozzy on his album, \"Easy Mathematics\", for which he produced the singles \"Don't Lie To Me\" & \"Same As” featuring Mozzy.\n\nIn October Rackz then started to work closely with Freebandz artist Test & the two built up a good working relationship. Test flew over from Baltimore to the UK and hit the studio in West London where they recorded the track 'Already Know'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2376785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2376785", "title": "ASR-complete", "text": "ASR-complete\n\nASR-complete is, by analogy to \"NP-completeness\" in complexity theory, a term to indicate that the difficulty of a computational problem is equivalent to solving the central Automatic Speech Recognition problem, i.e. recognize and understanding spoken language. Unlike \"NP-completeness\", this term is typically used informally.\n\nSuch problems are hypothesised to include:\n\n\nThese problems are easy for humans to do (in fact, they are described directly in terms of imitating humans). Some systems can solve very simple restricted versions of these problems, but none can solve them in their full generality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50527564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50527564", "title": "A Mít", "text": "A Mít\n\nA Mít (born 1997) is a Vietnamese footballer of ethnic Degar descent who plays as a midfielder for V-League (Vietnam) club SHB Đà Nẵng F.C..\n\nA Mít was born one of eight children to a poor Degar family of melon farmers in Kon Tum. At the age of just 12 A Mít traveled to Pleiku to join the HAGL – Arsenal JMG Academy. However A Mít's small size and frequent injuries and sicknesses caused him to quit and go back to his families farm. A couple years latter a scout from SHB Đà Nẵng took notice and invited A Mít to the club's academy. A Mít showed impressive improvement and in 2016 made his league debut.\n"}
{"id": "35613528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35613528", "title": "Aaron of Neustadt", "text": "Aaron of Neustadt\n\nAaron of Neustadt was an Austrian Talmudist who with Shallum and Jaekel of Vienna formed a triumvirate of Talmudic scholars in Austria at the end of the fourteenth and beginning of the fifteenth century; uncle and chief instructor of Isserlein, who frequently alludes in his works to the decisions and opinions of his teacher. Jacob Mölln (Maharil) also refers to him and his colleagues. Aaron suffered the death of a martyr, at Vienna, on 13 March 1421. He wrote a digest, \"Hilkot Niddah,\" which is mentioned by Isserlein. A collection of sermons by Aaron is now known only through three citations in the works of Jacob Mölln and of Isserlein.\n"}
{"id": "58263133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58263133", "title": "Ableism in Canada", "text": "Ableism in Canada\n\nAbleism in Canada refers to a set of discourses, behaviours and structures which express feelings of anxiety, fear, hostility and antipathy towards disabled people in Canada. \n\nThe specific types of discrimination that have occurred or are still occurring in Canada include the ability to access to important facilities such as infrastructure within the transport network, restrictive immigration policies, involuntary sterilization to stop the disabled from having offspring, barriers to employment opportunities, a wage that is high enough to maintain a minimal standard of living, and institutionalization of the disabled in substandard conditions. Austerity decisions made by the government of Canada have also at time been referred to as ableist, such as funding cuts that put disabled people at risk of living in abusive arrangements.\n"}
{"id": "11575322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11575322", "title": "Abraham and Onesimus of Kiev Caves", "text": "Abraham and Onesimus of Kiev Caves\n\nAbraham and Onesimus of Kiev were monks of Kiev and lived in 12-13 c.\n\nThey, with several others, have a feast day at the Kiev Caves monastery on the Saturday after September 14.\n\nThe others commemorated on that day include:\nKiev Pechersk Lavra is an orthodox monastery which was founded by the monk St.Anthony Pechersky, also known as Antony Pechersky, in 1051 at the caves near Kiev (now is the center of the city). In 12-th century Lavra became the center of spreading of Christianity in Ancient Rus'. Abraham and Onesimus were buried at the Near Caves. The feast day of Abraham, the hermit, is on September 3.\nThe feast day of Onesimus, the hermit, is on October 17.\n\n"}
{"id": "13771647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13771647", "title": "Arthur Archer", "text": "Arthur Archer\n\nArthur Archer (1874–1940) was an English professional association footballer who played as a full back. Born in Derby, Archer made 170 appearances in all competitions for Small Heath in a five-year career, including over 150 games in the Football League, as well as playing for a variety of other clubs. When he finished playing he coached in Germany, Italy and Belgium, as well as a brief spell in England with Watford.\n\nSmall Heath\n"}
{"id": "13411300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13411300", "title": "Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine", "text": "Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine\n\nAstellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine is a subsidiary of Astellas Pharma located in Marlborough, Massachusetts, developing stem cell therapies with a focus on diseases that cause blindness. It was formed in 1994 as a company named Advanced Cell Technology, Incorporated (ACT), which was renamed to Ocata Therapeutics in November 2014. In February 2016 Ocata acquired by Astellas for $379 million. which was finally completed in February 2016.\n\nAdvanced Cell Technology was formed in 1994 and was led from 2005 to late 2010 by William M. Caldwell IV, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Upon Mr. Caldwell's death on December 13, 2010, Gary Rabin, a member of ACT's board of directors with experience in investment and capital raising, assumed the role of Chairman and CEO.\n\nIn 2007 the company's Chief Scientific Officer (CSO), Michael D. West, PhD, also founder of Geron () left Ocata to join a regenerative medicine firm, BioTime () as CEO. In 2008, for $250,000 plus royalties up to a total of $1 million, the company licensed its \"ACTCellerate\" technology to BioTime. Robert Lanza was appointed CSO.\n\nOn November 22, 2010, the company announced that it had received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to initiate the first human clinical trial using embryonic stem cells to treat retinal diseases. A preliminary report of the trial published in 2012, and a follow-up article was published in February 2015.\n\nIn July 2014, Ocata announced that Paul K. Wotton, previously of Antares Pharma Inc (ATRS:NASDAQ CM), became President and Chief Executive Officer.\n\nOn August 27, 2014, Ocata announced a 1-100 reverse stock split of its common stock. Ocata was listed on NASDAQ in February 2015.\n\nOn November 30, 2010, Ocata filed an Investigational New Drug application with the U.S. FDA for the first clinical trial using embryonic stem cells to regenerate retinal pigment epithelium to treat Dry Age-Related Macular Degeneration (Dry AMD). Dry AMD is the most common form of macular degeneration and represents a market size of $25–30 Billion in the U.S. and Europe.\n\nIn November 2010 the FDA allowed Ocata to begin a Phase I/II human clinical trial to use its retinal pigment epithelium cell therapy to treat Stargardt disease, a form of inherited juvenile macular degeneration.\n\n"}
{"id": "45241494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45241494", "title": "Athletes and domestic violence", "text": "Athletes and domestic violence\n\nDomestic violence is one of the most common crimes among male athletes.There is an ongoing struggle among sporting leagues, governments, and viewers to address the increasing number of domestic violence incidents committed by athletes. The NFL, National Collegiate Athletic Association(NCAA), National Basketball Association(NBA), and the sport of Boxing employ and promote athletes who have committed domestic violence. Most prominent are instances of domestic violence that occur by members of the NFL, due largely to its immense popularity in the United States.\n\nDomestic violence among athletes specifically occurs off the field and is most often perpetrated by collegiate and professional athletes. Women are most often the victims during these perpetrations of violence. football, a high contact sport, is played and watched by millions of Americans, and is at the center of the discussion surrounding domestic violence and major athletes. Scholars have worked on this phenomenon considering many variables when attempting to correlate the nature of athletes to domestic violence. Scholars (discussed below) have suggested that the violent behavior inherent in the football environment can be a potential accelerator or stimulator of domestic violence. Major sports franchises are increasingly criticized for their lack of action in regard to domestic violence.\n\nDomestic abuse among professional athletes is not a new problem, but it became a nationally recognized issue when Baltimore Ravens football player Ray Rice assaulted his then-fiancee, now wife, in 2014 and was only suspended from two NFL games. The incident took place in elevator in a hotel, in which Rice knocks out his wife- the video was released by TMZ. Prior to the incident, the NFL’s conduct policy stated that players would be disciplined for domestic abuse offense, but gave no specifics, so the league was left scrambling to come up with an appropriate punishment for Rice. After receiving a great deal of criticism for the light suspension, NFL commissioner Roger Goodell created new rules for players who abuse a partner, saying the first offense would lead to a six-game suspension without pay and a second offense would lead to being kicked out of the league for at least a year.\n\nThe criminal behavior of football players has been studied more than that of other players in other sports. Because of the sport's intrinsically violent nature, one might suppose that football players are particularly prone to off-the-field violence. One of the NFL's biggest problems off the field is Domestic violence, according to Jon Shuppe from NBC News over the last 14 years there have been 87 arrests involving 80 football players. A survey of 252 nationally-reported criminal cases in one year that involved athletes found that about 14% (49) of the athletes involved were professional football players. This compared to about 7% (25) professional baseball players and about 6% (twenty-one) of professional basketball and hockey players. While this does not draw any specific causation of the violence, the survey is at least suggestive that professional athletes who play other sports besides football also break the law in significant numbers, amounting to perhaps dozens of high-profile incidents each year.<ref name=\"1-BlueCollar Crimes/WhiteCollar Criminals\"></ref>\n\nA contributing factor to domestic violence among football players may be that they are desensitized to physical conduct because it is a part of what they do all the time. Stanley Teitelbaum, a Ph.D Clinical Psychologist and author of Sports Heroes, Fallen Idols and Illusions and Disillusions agrees with the previous statement by Mitch Abrams, saying, \"They're (elite football players) trained to be very aggressive and somewhat violent on the field, that's the nature of the game and that’s how they become important players. And sometimes it's difficult for athletes to turn that off when they go back to their regular lives.\" Some players are raised in an environment where violence is used to resolve conflict. As one is raised in an environment that welcomes violence, their propensity to repeat what they've seen, or what has been done to them may increase. Adrian Peterson has said that he disciplined his son the way he was disciplined as a child, then went on to say that he will, \"Never use a switch again\" (in reference to accusations of disciplining his 4-year old with a whip.) In almost every case, the domestic violence involves male athletes who play violent sports physically abusing wives or girlfriends. In 2010, starting running back Steve Jackson of the St. Louis Rams was accused of beating up his girlfriend while she was nine months pregnant with his child. His former girlfriend, Supriya Harris, said that Jackson “forcibly grabbed my arm, flung me against the door and repeatedly pushed me to the ground.” Jackson took Harris to the hospital and told her to tell the doctors she had fallen in the shower. Ten days later, she delivered their child, but the couple separated four months later after he threatened her again.\n\nYet it is not clear that athletes are any more involved in serious crime than the general population is. In a follow-up study, Blumstein and Benedict (1999) showed that 23% of the males in cities with a population of 250,000 or more are arrested for a serious crime at some point in their life. That compares with the 21.4% of NFL football players who had been arrested for something more serious than a minor crime as reported in Benedict’s earlier study (Benedict and Yaeger 1998). In fact, when Blumstein and Benedict compared NFL players with young men from similar racial backgrounds, they discovered that the arrest rates for NFL players were less than half that of the other group for crimes of domestic violence and nondomestic assaults.\n\nWoods brings attention to issue of Male Entitlement, a topic that Benedict and Yaeger also shed light on. Some athletes develop a sense of entitlement as their fame grows. Whatever city they’re in, male athletes are surrounded by female groupies. The athletes often treat these women with disdain and yet are still tempted by their offers of sex. Wilt Chamberlain, a former great NBA player, boasted in his autobiography that he had slept with over 20,000 women, which, if true, shows a definite degree of deviance.\n\nA sensitive topic for many athletes is the apparent rise in violence against women among male athletes. Most men would be quick to say that they respect women and certainly don’t intend women harm. Here are some statistics from the National Coalition Against Violent Athletes on its website at ncava.org: A three-year study showed that while male student-athletes make up 3% of the population on college campuses, they account for 20% of sexual assaults and 35% of domestic assaults on college campuses. Athletes commit one in three college sexual assaults. The general population has a conviction rate of 80% for sexual assaults, while the rate for athletes is only 38%. These statistics were gathered from 107 cases of sexual assault reported at 30 Division I schools between 1991 and 1993. Critics of this study say the sample size was relatively small and was not controlled for the use of alcohol, the use of tobacco, and the man’s attitude toward women. Those three factors are the main predictors of a male’s inclination toward gender violence. More recent studies have corroborated the study by Crosset and colleagues, and one researcher concluded that “a disproportionate number of campus gang rapes involve fraternities or athlete groups.”\n\nDue to the rising accounts of sexual assault on college campuses, the “It’s On Us” campaign was launched in 2014 by President Barack Obama. The campaigns goal is to raise awareness of sexual assault by inspiring people to realize that it is everyone’s responsibility to do something, no matter how big or small. Over 200 universities have partnered with the “It’s On Us” campaign along with sports organizations such as the N.C.A.A. According to an article from the New York Times \"The Big East Conference, which like the N.C.A.A. was a charter partner of \"It's on Us,\" had its lawyers brief the presidents of its 10 universities on developments in law and policy over the summer. At several universities, athletes produced public service announcements; DePaul enlisted the Chicago Police Department's Sexual Assault Task Force for athlete training, according to the conference.\"\n\nIn wake of the September media craze regarding the NFL's domestic violence issue, NBA commissioner Adam Silver said that his league will \"take a fresh look\" at its domestic violence procedures in the wake of the NFL's rash of incidents. Underscoring to the NBA Players Association ways to further educate players and provide programs to them and their families. \"We learn from other leagues' experiences,\" Silver said. \"We're studying everything that's been happening in the NFL. We're working with our players' association. We've been talking for several weeks and we're going to take a fresh look at everything we do.\" The NFL and Commissioner Roger Goodell has been criticized for punishments that were too slow or lenient for Ray Rice, Adrian Peterson and other players involved in issues of domestic violence brought to light in September 2014. Goodell aimed to implement new personal conduct policies by the Super Bowl. The NBA's collective bargaining agreement calls for a minimum 10-game suspension for a first offense of a player convicted of a violent felony, however nothing regarding misdemeanor domestic violence charges. Silver says that the NBA has in place, the appropriate mechanisms for discipline, but also acknowledged that it is his wish to continually revise and revisit the policy if need be. Silver also mentioned that \"most importantly, it's education, and it's not just the players, but it's the players' families. That's what we're learning, too. We have to take these programs directly to the players' spouses, directly to their partners so that they're aware of places they can go to express concerns, whether they're anonymous hotlines, team executives, league executives. And we're consulting experts. There's a lot to be learned here. It's a societal problem; it's not one that's unique to sports.\" This proactive approach by Silver is surely helping the issue, but it does not diminish the fact that from 2010 to present, the NFL had an average arrest rate (for a population of 100,000) of approximately 2,466, followed by the NBA’s 2,157. Comparatively, professional baseball and hockey players clocked average arrest rates of 553 and 175, respectively, over the same period.\n\nNeither the World Boxing Federation or the Nevada Athletics Commission have rules forbidding boxers to commit domestic violence or sexual assault.Floyd Mayweather, Jr, the world's highest-paid athlete is arguably the face of the sport. Floyd had been charged with domestic violence on more than one occasion, but rarely are they spoken of. Recently during the Floyd Mayweather, Jr. vs. Manny Pacquiao fight ESPN and HBO’s Michelle Beadle and CNN reporter Rachel Nichols, both of whom have covered Mayweather’s history of domestic violence, tweeted that Mayweather’s camp had “banned” them from the MGM Grand Arena, preventing them from covering there for the respective media outlets. The first documented claim of domestic violence occurred in 2001. After Mayweather and Melissa Brim, the mother of his daughter Ayanna, got into an argument over child support, according to court documents, Mayweather swung open a car door that slammed her in the head, then he punched her three times in the face, leaving bruises. \n\nThe statistics do show that the NFL’s arrest rate for domestic violence is only half of the national average arrest rate. However, the socio-economic factor needs to be considered. While no arrest data broken down by income, BJS survey provided breakdowns for victimization rates. Benjamin Morris, the researcher and writer of FiveThirtyEight, found that the domestic violence victimization rate for people from households making $75,000 or more was 39% of the overall domestic violence victimization rate, and for women ages 20 to 34 it was less than 20%. Although it is impossible to compare directly to the relative NFL arrest rate with precision, at least it gives some benchmark to show that people with higher income levels generally tend to have lower rates of arrest for domestic violence. The rate of domestic violence among NFL players is higher than expected for their income level, which could suggest that these athletes are indeed more prone to domestic violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "3109661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3109661", "title": "Avecia", "text": "Avecia\n\nAvecia, a part of Nitto Denko Inc., is a private biotechnology company focused on the development and manufacture of novel medicines using biotechnology techniques. Avecia operates as a contract manufacturing organization (CMO), specializing in oligonucleotide production.\n\nAvecia has two US FDA-audited facilities, one near Boston, MA, and the second in Cincinnati, OH. The combined capacity of these two sites allows Avecia to handle oligonucleotide programs from the pre-clinical through commercial stages. In 2016 Avecia acquired the assets of Irvine Pharmaceutical Services and Avrio Biopharmaceuticals.\n\n"}
{"id": "7628734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7628734", "title": "B.C. Women's Hospital &amp; Health Centre", "text": "B.C. Women's Hospital &amp; Health Centre\n\nB.C. Women's Hospital & Health Centre, an agency of the Provincial Health Services Authority (PHSA), is a Canadian hospital located in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, specializing in women's health programs. It is the only facility in Western Canada dedicated to the health of women, newborns and families, and is the largest maternity hospital in the country. It is a teaching hospital and major provincial health care resource, and is a key component in women's health research.\n\nBC Women's employs more than 1,000 full and part-time staff.\n\nThe former Salvation Army Grace Maternity Hospital, has been caring for BC families starting in 1927 at its original location at Heather Street and West 27th Avenue. Both Grace Hospital and Vancouver General Hospital's Willow Pavilion Maternity care moved to the current location at 4500 Oak Street in 1982 and shared the campus with BC Children's Hospital and Shaughnessy Hospital. It provides health services that address the health needs of women of all ages and backgrounds. Women's is the largest maternity hospital in Canada with over 7,000 babies delivered every year. Women's provides a combination of acute care services such as HIV/AIDS care and treatment, abortion and sexual assault services for women throughout the province (through outreach and on-site services in Vancouver) and basic health care services such as breast health checks for women in the Lower Mainland. It provides training for providers across the province.\nFollowing the closure of Shaughnessy Hospital in 1993, The Salvation Army withdrew administration in 1994 and the facility was renamed BC Women's Hospital & Health Centre. Under the Provincial Health Services Authority, BC Women's Hospital & Health Centre has a mandate to serve women, babies and their families across B.C. Only 43 percent of patients reside in the Lower Mainland, while 57 per cent of patients live in other areas of B.C. With many specialized women's health services not available anywhere else in the province, BC Women's treats over 68,000 patients each year.\n\nOctober 29, 2017 The Teck Acute Care Centre opens with a new high risk birthing unit, obstetrical surgical services and 60 bed Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU).\n\nOn October 25, 2006, Felicia Simms delivered conjoined twins (Krista and Tatiana Hogan) at BC Women's Hospital & Health Centre. They are believed to be the first ever conjoined twins born in British Columbia.\n\nCanada's first set of sextuplets, four boys and two girls, were born at the hospital on January 6 and 7, 2007. They were in the 25th week of gestation when born, or approximately 3 months premature.\n\nIts specialists and staff:\n\nAs a Health Centre, BC Women's provides care and treatment to over 19,000 outpatients each year through women's health services including:\n\nBC Women's Hospital & Health Centre Foundation supports the capital equipment, diagnostic, patient care, research and education needs of the hospital and health centre through fund-raising, planned giving and corporate partnerships.\nAurora Centre closed in August 2011. There is a new Heartwood program in its place.\n\n"}
{"id": "39182554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39182554", "title": "Catastrophic interference", "text": "Catastrophic interference\n\nCatastrophic interference, also known as catastrophic forgetting, is the tendency of an artificial neural network to completely and abruptly forget previously learned information upon learning new information. Neural networks are an important part of the network approach and connectionist approach to cognitive science. These networks use computer simulations to try to model human behaviours, such as memory and learning. Catastrophic interference is an important issue to consider when creating connectionist models of memory. It was originally brought to the attention of the scientific community by research from McCloskey and Cohen (1989), and Ractcliff (1990). It is a radical manifestation of the 'sensitivity-stability' dilemma or the 'stability-plasticity' dilemma. Specifically, these problems refer to the issue of being able to make an artificial neural network that is sensitive to, but not disrupted by, new information. Lookup tables and connectionist networks lie on the opposite sides of the stability plasticity spectrum. The former remains completely stable in the presence of new information but lacks the ability to generalize, i.e. infer general principles, from new inputs. On the other hand, connectionist networks like the standard backpropagation network are very sensitive to new information and can generalize on new inputs. Backpropagation models can be considered good models of human memory insofar as they mirror the human ability to generalize but these networks often exhibit less stability than human memory. Notably, these backpropagation networks are susceptible to catastrophic interference. This is considered an issue when attempting to model human memory because, unlike these networks, humans typically do not show catastrophic forgetting. Thus, the issue of catastrophic interference must be eradicated from these backpropagation models in order to enhance the plausibility as models of human memory.\n\nThe term catastrophic interference was originally coined by McCloskey and Cohen (1989) but was also brought to the attention of the scientific community by research from Ratcliff (1990).\n\nMcCloskey and Cohen (1989) noted the problem of catastrophic interference during two different experiments with backpropagation neural network modelling.\n\nIn their first experiment they trained a standard backpropagation neural network on a single training set consisting of 17 single-digit ones problems (i.e., 1 + 1 through 9 + 1, and 1 + 2 through 1 + 9) until the network could represent and respond properly to all of them. The error between the actual output and the desired output steadily declined across training sessions, which reflected that the network learned to represent the target outputs better across trials. Next they trained the network on a single training set consisting of 17 single-digit twos problems (i.e., 2 + 1 through 2 + 9, and 1 + 2 through 9 + 2) until the network could represent, respond properly to all of them. They noted that their procedure was similar to how a child would learn their addition facts. Following each learning trial on the twos facts, the network was tested for its knowledge on both the ones and twos addition facts. Like the ones facts, the twos facts were readily learned by the network. However, McCloskey and Cohen noted the network was no longer able to properly answer the ones addition problems even after one learning trial of the twos addition problems. The output pattern produced in response to the ones facts often resembled an output pattern for an incorrect number more closely than the output pattern for an incorrect number. This is considered to be a drastic amount of error. Furthermore, the problems 2+1 and 2+1, which were included in both training sets, even showed dramatic disruption during the first learning trials of the twos facts.\n\nIn their second connectionist model, McCloskey and Cohen attempted to replicate the study on retroactive interference in humans by Barnes and Underwood (1959). They trained the model on A-B and A-C lists and used a context pattern in the input vector (input pattern), to differentiate between the lists. Specifically the network was trained to responds with the right B response when shown the A stimulus and A-B context pattern and to respond with the correct C response when shown the A stimulus and the A-C context pattern. When the model was trained concurrently on the A-B and A-C items then the network readily learned all of the associations correctly. In sequential training the A-B list was trained first, followed by the A-C list. After each presentation of the A-C list, performance was measured for both the A-B and A-C lists. They found that the amount of training on the A-C list in Barnes and Underwood study that lead to 50% correct responses, lead to nearly 0% correct responses by the backpropagation network. Furthermore, they found that the network tended to show responses that looked like the C response pattern when the network was prompted to give the B response pattern. This indicated that the A-C list apparently had overwritten the A-B list. This could be likened to learning the word dog, followed by learning the word stool and then finding that you cannot recognize the word cat well but instead think of the word stool when presented with the word dog.\n\nMcCloskey and Cohen tried to reduce interference through a number of manipulations including changing the number of hidden units, changing the value of the learning rate parameter, overtraining on the A-B list, freezing certain connection weights, changing target values 0 and 1 instead 0.1 and 0.9. However none of these manipulations satisfactorily reduced the catastrophic interference exhibited by the networks.\n\nOverall, McCloskey and Cohen (1989) concluded that: \n\nRatcliff (1990) used multiple sets of backpropagation models applied to standard recognition memory procedures, in which the items were sequentially learned. After inspecting the recognition performance models he found two major problems:\nEven one learning trial with new information resulted in a significant loss of the old information, paralleling the findings of McCloskey and Cohen (1989). Ratcliff also found that the resulting outputs were often a blend of the previous input and the new input. In larger networks, items learned in groups (e.g. AB then CD) were more resistant to forgetting than were items learned singly (e.g. A then B then C…). However, the forgetting for items learned in groups was still large. Adding new hidden units to the network did not reduce interference. \nThis finding contradicts with studies on human memory, which indicated that discrimination increases with learning. Ratcliff attempted to alleviate this problem by adding 'response nodes' that would selectively respond to old and new inputs. However, this method did not work as these response nodes would become active for all inputs. A model which used a context pattern also failed to increase discrimination between new and old items.\n\nMany researchers have suggested that the main cause of catastrophic interference is overlap in the representations at the hidden layer of distributed neural networks. In a distributed representation any given input will tend to create changes in the weights to many of the nodes. Catastrophic forgetting occurs because when many of the weights where \"knowledge is stored\" are changed, it is impossible for prior knowledge to be kept intact. During sequential learning, the inputs become mixed with the new input being superimposed over top of the old input. Another way to conceptualize this is through visualizing learning as movement through a weight space. This weight space can be likened to a spatial representation of all of the possible combinations of weights that the network can possess. When a network first learns to represent a set of patterns, it has found a point in weight space which allows it to recognize all of the patterns that it has seen. However, when the network learns a new set of patterns sequentially it will move to a place in the weight space that allows it to only recognize the new pattern. To recognize both sets of patterns, the network must find a place in weight space that can represent both the new and the old output. One way to do this is by connecting a hidden unit to only a subset of the input units. This reduces the likelihood that two different inputs will be encoded by the same hidden units and weights, and so will decrease the chance of interference. Indeed, a number of the proposed solutions to catastrophic interference involve reducing the amount of overlap that occurs when storing information in these weights.\n\nMany of the early techniques in reducing representational overlap involved making either the input vectors or the hidden unit activation patterns orthogonal to one another. Lewandowsky and Li (1995) noted that the interference between sequentially learned patterns is minimized if the input vectors are orthogonal to each other. Input vectors are said to be orthogonal to each other if the pairwise product of their elements across the two vectors sum to zero. For example, the patterns [0,0,1,0] and [0,1,0,0] are said to be orthogonal because (0×0 + 0×1 + 1×0 + 0×0) = 0. One of the techniques which can create orthogonal representations at the hidden layers involves bipolar feature coding (i.e., coding using -1 and 1 rather than 0 and 1). Orthogonal patterns tend to produce less interference with each other. However, not all learning problems can be represented using these types of vectors and some studies report that the degree of interference is still problematic with orthogonal vectors. Simple techniques such as varying the learning rate parameters in the backpropagation equation were not successful in reducing interference. Varying the number of hidden nodes has also been used to try and reduce interference. However, the findings have been mixed, with some studies finding that more hidden units decrease interference and other studies finding it does not.\n\nBelow are a number of techniques which have empirical support in successfully reducing catastrophic interference in backpropagation neural networks:\n\nFrench (1991) proposed that catastrophic interference arises in feedforward backpropagation networks due to the interaction of node activations, or activation overlap, that occur in distributed representations at the hidden layer. Specifically, he defined this activation overlap as the average shared activation over all units in the hidden layer, calculated by summing the lowest activation of the nodes at the hidden layer and averaging this sum. For example, if the activations at the hidden layer from one input are (0.3, 0.1, 0.9, 1.0) and the activations from the next input are (0.0, 0.9, 0.1, 0.9) the activation overlap would be (0.0 + 0.1 + 0.1 + 0.9 ) / 4 = 0.275. When using [binary number|binary] representation of input [row vector|vectors], activation values will be 0 through 1, where 0 indicates no activation overlap and 1 indicates full activation overlap. French noted that neural networks which employ very localized representations do not show catastrophic interference because of the lack of overlap at the hidden layer. That is to say, each input pattern will create a hidden layer representation that involves the activation of only one node, so differed inputs will have an activation overlap of 0. Thus, he suggested that reducing the value of activation overlap at the hidden layer would reduce catastrophic interference in distributed networks. Specifically he proposed that this could be done through changing the distributed representations at the hidden layer to 'semi-distributed' representations. A 'semi-distributed' representation has fewer hidden nodes that are active, and/or a lower activation value for these nodes, for each representation, which will make the representations of the different inputs overlap less at the hidden layer. French recommended that this could be done through 'activation sharpening', a technique which slightly increases the activation of a certain number of the most active nodes in the hidden layer, slightly reduces the activation of all the other units and then changes the input-to-hidden layer weights to reflect these activation changes (similar to error backpropagation). Overall the guidelines for the process of 'activation sharpening' are as follows:\n\n\nIn his tests of an 8-8-8 (input-hidden-output) node backpropagation network where one node was sharpened, French found that this sharpening paradigm did result in one node being much more active than the other seven. Moreover, when sharpened, this network took one fourth the time to relearn the initial inputs than a standard backpropagation without node sharpening. Relearning is a measure of memory savings and thus extent of forgetting, where more time to relearn suggests more forgetting (Ebbinghaus savings method). A two-node sharpened network performed even slightly better, however if more than two nodes were sharpened forgetting increased again.\n\nAccording to French, the sharpened activations interfere less with weights in the network than unsharpened weights and this is due specifically to the way that backpropagation algorithm calculates weight changes. Activations near 0 will change the weights of links less than activations near 1. Consequently, when there are many nodes with low activations (due to sharpening), the weights to and from these nodes will be modified much less than the weights on very active nodes. As a result, when a new input is fed into the network, sharpening will reduce activation overlap by limiting the number of highly active hidden units and will reduce the likelihood of representational overlap by reducing the number of weights that are to be changed. Thus, node sharpening will decrease the amount of disruption in the old weights, which store prior input patterns, thereby reducing the likelihood of catastrophic forgetting.\n\nKortge (1990) proposed a learning rule for training neural networks, called the 'novelty rule', to help alleviate catastrophic interference. As its name suggests, this rule helps the neural network to learn only the components of a new input that differ from an old input. Consequently, the novelty rule changes only the weights that were not previously dedicated to storing information, thereby reducing the overlap in representations at the hidden units. Thus, even when inputs are somewhat similar to another, dissimilar representations can be made at the hidden layer. In order to apply the novelty rule, during learning the input pattern is replaced by a novelty vector that represents the components that differ. The novelty vector for the first layer (input units to hidden units) is determined by taking the target pattern away from the current output of the network (the delta rule). For the second layer (hidden units to output units) the novelty vector is simply the activation of the hidden units that resulted from using the novelty vector as an input through the first layer. Weight changes in the network are computed by using a modified delta rule with the novelty vector replacing the activation value (sum of the inputs):\n\nWhen the novelty rule is used in a standard backpropagation network there is no, or lessened, forgetting of old items when new items are presented sequentially. However, this rule can only apply to auto-encoder or auto-associative networks, in which the target response for the output layer is identical to the input pattern. This is because the novelty vector would be meaningless if the desired output was not identical to the input as it would be impossible to calculate how much a new input differed from the old input.\n\nMcRae and Hetherington (1993) argued that humans, unlike most neural networks, do not take on new learning tasks with a random set of weights. Rather, people tend to bring a wealth of prior knowledge to a task and this helps to avoid the problem of interference. They proposed that when a network is pre-trained on a random sample of data prior to starting a sequential learning task that this prior knowledge will naturally constrain how the new information can be incorporated. This would occur because a random sample of data from a domain which has a high degree of internal structure, such as the English language, training would capture the regularities, or recurring patterns, found within that domain. Since the domain is based on regularities, a newly learned item will tend to be similar to the previously learned information, which will allow the network to incorporate new data with little interference with existing data. Specifically, an input vector which follows the same pattern of regularities as the previously trained data should not cause a drastically different pattern of activation at the hidden layer or drastically alter weights.\n\nTo test their hypothesis, McRae and Hetherington (1993) compared the performance of a naïve and pre-trained auto-encoder backpropagation network on three simulations of verbal learning tasks. The pre-trained network was trained using letter based representations of English monosyllabic words or English word pairs. All three tasks involved the learning of some consonant-vowel-consonant (CVC) strings or CVC pairs (list A), followed by training on a second list of these items (list B). Afterwards, the distributions of the hidden node activations were compared between the naïve and pre-trained network. In all three tasks, the representations of a CVC in the naïve network tended to be spread fairly evenly across all hidden nodes, whereas most hidden nodes were inactive in the pre-trained network. Furthermore, in the pre-trained network the representational overlap between CVCs was reduced compared to the naïve network. The pre-trained network also retained some similarity information as the representational overlap between similar CVCs, like \"JEP\" and \"ZEP\", was greater than for dissimilar CVCs, such as \"JEP\" and \"YUG\". This suggests that the pre-trained network had a better ability to generalize, i.e. notice the patterns, than the naïve network. Most importantly, this reduction in hidden unit activation and representational overlap resulted in significantly less forgetting in the pre-trained network than the naïve network, essentially eliminating catastrophic interference. Essentially, the pre-training acted to create internal orthogonalization of the activations at the hidden layer, which reduced interference. Thus, pre-training is a simple way to reduce catastrophic forgetting in standard backpropagation networks.\n\nFrench (1997) proposed the idea of a pseudo-recurrent backpropagation network in order to help reduce catastrophic interference (see Figure 2). In this model the network is separated into two functionally distinct but interacting sub-networks. This model is biologically inspired and is based on research from McClelland, McNaughton, and O'Reilly (1995). In this research McClelland et al. (1995), suggested that the hippocampus and neocortex act as separable but complementary memory systems. Specifically, the hippocampus short term memory storage and acts gradually over time to transfer memories into the neocortex for long term memory storage. They suggest that the information that is stored can be \"brought back\" to the hippocampus during active rehearsal, reminiscence, and sleep and renewed activation is what acts to transfer the information to the neocortex over time. In the pseudo-recurrent network, one of the sub-networks acts as an early processing area, akin to the hippocampus, and functions to learn new input patters. The other sub-network acts as a final-storage area, akin to the neocortex. However, unlike in McClelland et al. (1995) model, the final-storage area sends internally generated representation back to the early processing area. This creates a recurrent network. French proposed that this interleaving of old representations with new representations is the only way to reduce radical forgetting. Since the brain would most likely not have access to the original input patterns, the patterns that would be fed back to the neocortex would be internally generated representations called \"pseudopatterns\". These pseudopatterns are approximations of previous inputs and they can be interleaved with the learning of new inputs. The use of these pseudopatterns could be biologically plausible as parallels between the consolidation of learning that occurs during sleep and the use of interleaved pseudopatterns. Specifically, they both serve to integrate new information with old information without disruption of the old information. When given an input (and a teacher value) is fed into the pseudo-recurrent network would act as follows:\n\n\nWhen tested on sequential learning of real world patterns, categorization of edible and poisonous mushrooms, the pseudo-recurrent network was shown less interference than a standard backpropagation network. This improvement was with both memory savings and exact recognition of old patterns. When the activation patterns of the pseudo-recurrent network were investigated, it was shown that this network automatically formed semi-distributed representations. Since these types of representations involve fewer nodes being activated for each pattern, it is likely what helped to reduce interference.\n\nNot only did the pseudo-recurrent model show reduced interference but also it models list-length and list-strength effects seen in humans. The list-length effect means that adding new items to a list harms the memory of earlier items. Like humans, the pseudo recurrent network showed a more gradual forgetting when to be trained list is lengthened. The list-strength effect means that when the strength of recognition for one item is increased, there is no effect on the recognition of the other list items. This is an important finding as other models often exhibit a decrease in the recognition of other list items when one list item is strengthened. Since the direct copying of weights from the early processing area to the final storage area does not seem highly biologically plausible, the transfer of information to the final storage area can be done through training the final storage area with pseudopatterns created by the early processing area. However, a disadvantage of the pseudo-recurrent model is that the number of hidden units in the early processing and final storage sub-networks must be identical.\n\nFollowing the same basic idea contributed by Robins, Ans and Rousset (1997) have also proposed a two-network artificial neural architecture with \"memory self-refreshing\" that overcomes catastrophic interference when sequential learning tasks are carried out in distributed networks trained by backpropagation. The principle is to interleave, at the time when new external patterns are learned, those to-be-learned new external patterns with internally generated pseudopatterns, or 'pseudo-memories', that reflect the previously learned information. What mainly distinguishes this model from those that use classical pseudorehearsal in feedforward multilayer networks is a \"reverberating\" process that is used for generating pseudopatterns. This process which, after a number of activity re-injections from a single random seed, tends to go up to nonlinear network \"attractors\", is more suitable for optimally capturing the deep structure of previously learned knowledge than a single feedforward pass of random activation. Ans and Rousset (2000) have shown that the learning mechanism they proposed avoiding catastrophic forgetting, provides a more appropriate way to deal with knowledge transfer as measured by learning speed, ability to generalize and vulnerability to network damages. Musca, Rousset and Ans (2009) have also shown that pseudopatterns originating from an artificial reverberating neural network could induce familiarity in humans with never seen items in the way predicted by simulations conducted with a two-network artificial neural architecture. Furthermore, Ans (2004) has implemented a version of the self-refreshing mechanism using only one network trained by the Contrastive Hebbian Learning rule, a training rule considered as more realistic than the largely used backpropagation algorithm, but fortunately equivalent to the latter.\n\nSo far, the different solutions to catastrophic interference that have been presented concern tasks of sequential learning involving only non-temporally ordered lists of items. But, to be credible, the self-refreshing mechanism for 'static' learning has to encompass our human ability to learn serially many temporal sequences of patterns without catastrophic interference (e.g. learning one song followed by learning a second song without forgetting the first one). This was done by Ans, Rousset, French and Musca (2004) who have presented, in addition to simulation work, an experiment that evidences a close similarity between the behaviour of humans and the behaviour of the proposed neuromimetic architecture.\n\nLatent Learning is a technique used by Gutstein & Stump (2015) both to mitigate catastrophic interference and to take advantage of transfer learning. Rather than manipulating the representations for new classes used by the hidden nodes, this approach tries to train optimal representations for new classes into the output nodes. It chooses output encodings that are least likely to catastrophically interfere with existing responses.\n\nGiven a net that has learned to discriminate among one set of classes using Error Correcting Output Codes (ECOC) (as opposed to 1 hot codes), optimal encodings for new classes are chosen by observing the net's average responses to them. Since these average responses arose while learning the original set of classes \"without any exposure to the new classes\", they are referred to as 'Latently Learned Encodings'. This terminology borrows from the concept of Latent Learning, as introduced by Tolman in 1930. In effect, this technique uses transfer learning to avoid catastrophic interference, by making a net's responses to new classes as consistent as possible with existing responses to classes already learned.\n\nKirkpatrick et al. (2017) demonstrated a method to train a single artificial neural network on multiple tasks using a technique called elastic weight consolidation.\n\nPractopoietic theory proposes that biological systems solve the problem of catastrophic interference by storing long-term memories only in a general form, not applicable to a given situation but instead loosely applicable to a class of different situations. In order to adjust the loosely applicable knowledge to the given current situation, the process of \"anapoiesis\" is applied. Anapoiesis stands for \"reconstruction of knowledge\"—transforming knowledge from a general form to a specific one. Practopoietic theory is founded in the theorems of cybernetics and is concerned with the question of how cybernetic systems obtain their capabilities to control and act.\n"}
{"id": "8697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8697", "title": "DNA ligase", "text": "DNA ligase\n\nDNA ligase is a specific type of enzyme, a ligase, () that facilitates the joining of DNA strands together by catalyzing the formation of a phosphodiester bond. It plays a role in repairing single-strand breaks in duplex DNA in living organisms, but some forms (such as DNA ligase IV) may specifically repair double-strand breaks (i.e. a break in both complementary strands of DNA). Single-strand breaks are repaired by DNA ligase using the complementary strand of the double helix as a template, with DNA ligase creating the final phosphodiester bond to fully repair the DNA.\n\nDNA ligase is used in both DNA repair and DNA replication (see \"Mammalian ligases\"). In addition, DNA ligase has extensive use in molecular biology laboratories for recombinant DNA experiments (see \"Research Applications\"). Purified DNA ligase is used in gene cloning to join DNA molecules together to form recombinant DNA.\n\nThe mechanism of DNA ligase is to form two covalent phosphodiester bonds between 3' hydroxyl ends of one nucleotide (\"acceptor\"), with the 5' phosphate end of another (\"donor\"). Two ATP molecules are consumed for each phosphodiester bond formed. AMP is required for the ligase reaction, which proceeds in four steps:\n\n\nLigase will also work with blunt ends, although higher enzyme concentrations and different reaction conditions are required.\n\nThe \"E. coli\" DNA ligase is encoded by the \"lig\" gene. DNA ligase in \"E. coli\", as well as most prokaryotes, uses energy gained by cleaving nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) to create the phosphodiester bond. It does not ligate blunt-ended DNA except under conditions of molecular crowding with polyethylene glycol, and cannot join RNA to DNA efficiently.\n\nThe activity of E. coli DNA ligase can be enhanced by DNA polymerase at the right concentrations. Enhancement only works when the concentrations of the DNA polymerase 1 are much lower than the DNA fragments to be ligated. When the concentrations of Pol I DNA polymerases are higher, it has an adverse effect on E. coli DNA ligase\n\nThe DNA ligase from bacteriophage T4(Enterobacteria phage T4 is a bacteriophage that infects \"Escherichia coli\" bacteria. The T4 phage is a member of the T-even phages, a group including enterobacteriophages T2 and T6. T4 is capable of undergoing only a lytic lifecycle and not the lysogenic lifecycle.) is the ligase most-commonly used in laboratory research. It can ligate either cohesive or blunt ends of DNA, oligonucleotides, as well as RNA and RNA-DNA hybrids, but not single-stranded nucleic acids. It can also ligate blunt-ended DNA with much greater efficiency than \"E. coli\" DNA ligase. Unlike \"E. coli\" DNA ligase, T4 DNA ligase cannot utilize NAD and it has an absolute requirement for ATP as a cofactor. Some engineering has been done to improve the \"in vitro\" activity of T4 DNA ligase; one successful approach, for example, tested T4 DNA ligase fused to several alternative DNA binding proteins and found that the constructs with either p50 or NF-kB as fusion partners were over 160% more active in blunt-end ligations for cloning purposes than wild type T4 DNA ligase. A typical reaction for inserting a fragment into a plasmid vector would use about 0.01 (sticky ends) to 1 (blunt ends) units of ligase. The optimal incubation temperature for T4 DNA ligase is 16 °C. \n\nIn mammals, there are four specific types of ligase.\n\n\nDNA ligase from eukaryotes and some microbes uses adenosine triphosphate (ATP) rather than NAD.\n\nDerived from a thermophilic bacterium, the enzyme is stable and active at much higher temperatures than conventional DNA ligases. Its half-life is 48 hours at 65°C and greater than 1 hour at 95°C. Ampligase DNA Ligase has been shown to be active for at least 500 thermal cycles (94°C/80°C) or 16 hours of cycling. This exceptional thermostability permits extremely high hybridization stringency and ligation specificity.\n\nThere are at least three different units used to measure the activity of DNA ligase:\n\nDNA ligases have become indispensable tools in modern molecular biology research for generating recombinant DNA sequences. For example, DNA ligases are used with restriction enzymes to insert DNA fragments, often genes, into plasmids.\n\nControlling the optimal temperature is a vital aspect of performing efficient recombination experiments involving the ligation of cohesive-ended fragments. Most experiments use T4 DNA Ligase (isolated from bacteriophage T4), which is most active at 37 °C. However, for optimal ligation efficiency with cohesive-ended fragments (\"sticky ends\"), the optimal enzyme temperature needs to be balanced with the melting temperature T of the sticky ends being ligated, the homologous pairing of the sticky ends will not be stable because the high temperature disrupts hydrogen bonding. A ligation reaction is most efficient when the sticky ends are already stably annealed, and disruption of the annealing ends would therefore result in low ligation efficiency. The shorter the overhang, the lower the T. It has been shown recently that T4 DNA ligase in combination with 3 M betaine and 10 % PEG 8000 can ligate XNA molecules . \n\nSince blunt-ended DNA fragments have no cohesive ends to anneal, the melting temperature is not a factor to consider within the normal temperature range of the ligation reaction. The limiting factor in blunt end ligation is not the activity of the ligase but rather the number of alignments between DNA fragment ends that occur. The most efficient ligation temperature for blunt-ended DNA would therefore be the temperature at which the greatest number of alignments can occur. The majority of blunt-ended ligations are carried out at 14-25 °C overnight. The absence of stably annealed ends also means that the ligation efficiency is lowered, requiring a higher ligase concentration to be used.\n\nA novel use of DNA ligase can be seen in the field of nano chemistry, specifically in DNA origami.  DNA based self-assembly principles have proven useful for organizing nanoscale objects, such as biomolecules, nanomachines, nanoelectronic and photonic component. Assembly of such nano structure requires the creation of an intricate mesh of DNA molecules. Although DNA self-assembly is possible without any outside help using different substrates such as provision of catatonic surface of Aluminium foil, DNA ligase can provide the enzymatic assistance that is required to make DNA lattice structure from DNA over hangs.\n\nThe first DNA ligase was purified and characterized in 1967 by the Gellert, Lehman, Richardson, and Hurwitz laboratories. It was first purified and characterized by Weiss and Richardson using a six-step chromatographic-fractionation process beginning with elimination of cell debris and addition of streptomycin, followed by several Diethylaminoethyl (DEAE)-cellulose column washes and a final phosphocellulose fractionation. The final extract contained 10% of the activity initially recorded in the \"E. coli \"media; along the process it was discovered that ATP and Mg++ were necessary to optimize the reaction. The common commercially available DNA ligases were originally discovered in bacteriophage T4, \"E. coli\" and other bacteria.\n\nGenetic deficiencies in human DNA ligases have been associated with clinical syndromes marked by immunodeficiency, radiation sensitivity, and developmental abnormalities,  LIG4 syndrome (Ligase IV syndrome) is a rare disease associated with mutations in DNA ligase 4 and interferes with dsDNA break-repair mechanisms. Ligase IV syndrome causes immunodeficiency in individuals and is commonly associated with microcephaly and marrow hypoplasia. A list of prevalent diseases caused by lack of or malfunctioning of DNA ligase is as follows.\n\nXeroderma pigmentosum, which is commonly known as XP, is an inherited condition characterized by an extreme sensitivity to ultraviolet (UV) rays from sunlight. This condition mostly affects the eyes and areas of skin exposed to the sun. Some affected individuals also have problems involving the nervous system.\n\nMutations in the ATM gene cause ataxia-telangiectasia. The ATM gene provides instructions for making a protein that helps control cell division and is involved in DNA repair. This protein plays an important role in the normal development and activity of several body systems, including the nervous system and immune system. The ATM protein assists cells in recognizing damaged or broken DNA strands and coordinates DNA repair by activating enzymes that fix the broken strands. Efficient repair of damaged DNA strands helps maintain the stability of the cell's genetic information. Affected children typically develop difficulty walking, problems with balance and hand coordination, involuntary jerking movements (chorea), muscle twitches (myoclonus), and disturbances in nerve function (neuropathy). The movement problems typically cause people to require wheelchair assistance by adolescence. People with this disorder also have slurred speech and trouble moving their eyes to look side-to-side (oculomotor apraxia).\n\nFanconi anemia (FA) is a rare, inherited blood disorder that leads to bone marrow failure. FA prevents bone marrow from making enough new blood cells for the body to work normally. FA also can cause the bone marrow to make many faulty blood cells. This can lead to serious health problems, such as leukemia.\n\nBloom syndrome results in skin that is sensitive to sun exposure, and usually the development of a butterfly-shaped patch of reddened skin across the nose and cheeks. A skin rash can also appear on other areas that are typically exposed to the sun, such as the back of the hands and the forearms. Small clusters of enlarged blood vessels (telangiectases) often appear in the rash; telangiectases can also occur in the eyes. Other skin features include patches of skin that are lighter or darker than the surrounding areas (hypopigmentation or hyperpigmentation respectively). These patches appear on areas of the skin that are not exposed to the sun, and their development is not related to the rashes.\n\nIn recent studies, human DNA ligase I was used in Computer-aided drug design to identify DNA ligase inhibitors as possible therapeutic agents to treat cancer. Since excessive cell growth is a hallmark of cancer development, targetes chemotherapy that disrupts the functioning of DNA ligase can impede adjuvant cancer forms. Furthermore, it has been shown that DNA ligase can be broadly divided into two categories namely, ATP dependent and NAD+ dependent. Previous research has shown that although NAD-dependent DNA ligases have been discovered in sporadic cellular or viral niches outside the bacterial domain of life, there is no instance in which a NAD-dependent ligase is present in a eukaryal organism. The narrow phylogenetic distribution, unique substrate specificity, and distinctive domain structure of NAD+ depandant compared with ATP-dependent human DNA ligases recommend the NAD ligases as targets for the development of new antibacterial drugs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4501379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4501379", "title": "Edward Acton (Royal Navy officer)", "text": "Edward Acton (Royal Navy officer)\n\nEdward Acton (died 1707) was a captain in the Royal Navy, distinguished for services in the reign of Queen Anne.\n\nActon was the son of Mary Acton, and presumed to have been the grandson of Sir Edward Acton of Shropshire. He engaged as a volunteer and rose to become a captain.\n\nIn 1703 Acton had Captain Richard Kirkby and Captain Cooper Wade as prisoners as he escorted them back to England to be executed. They had been found guilty of failing to support Vice-Admiral John Benbow.\n\nIn Sir George Rooke's vigorous and intrepid attack of Gibraltar, he commanded the HMS \"Kingston\", one of the battleships at the Capture of Gibraltar.\n\nUnder the same chief, Acton took part in the Battle of Málaga (1704); but aspersions had been cast upon his bravery. Fortunately, however, for Acton, and others who underwent the same ordeal, a court martial silenced slander and exposed the fabrications. He was fully and honourably acquitted.\n\nIn 1706 he took command of which was refitted the following year. Whilst part of a larger battle and while escorting other ships his ship was engaged by two French ships under the command of Claude de Forbin off Dungeness. Acton was killed.\n"}
{"id": "22315224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22315224", "title": "Electromethanogenesis", "text": "Electromethanogenesis\n\nElectromethanogenesis is a form of electrofuel production where methane is produced by direct biological conversion from electrical current and carbon dioxide. The reduction process is carried out in a microbial electrolysis cell. A 2009 article by Cheng and Logan reports that a current capture efficiency of 96% can be achieved using a 1.0 V current.\n\n"}
{"id": "20311344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20311344", "title": "European social model", "text": "European social model\n\nThe European social model is a common vision many European states have for a society that combines economic growth with high living standards and good working conditions. Historian Tony Judt has argued that the European social model \"binds Europe together\" in contrast to the 'American way of life'.\n\nEuropean states do not all use a single social model, but welfare states in Europe do share several broad characteristics. These generally include a commitment to full employment, social protections for all citizens, social inclusion, and democracy. Examples common among European countries include universal health care, free higher education, strong labor protections and regulations, and generous welfare programs in areas such as unemployment insurance, retirement pensions, and public housing. The Treaty of the European Community set out several social objectives: \"promotion of employment, improved living and working conditions ... proper social protection, dialogue between management and labour, the development of human resources with a view to lasting high employment and the combating of exclusion.\" Because different European states focus on different aspects of the model, it has been argued that there are four distinct social models in Europe: the Nordic, British, Mediterranean and the Continental.\n\nThe general outlines of a European social model emerged during the post-war boom. Tony Judt lists a number of causes: the abandonment of protectionism, the baby boom, cheap energy, and a desire to catch up with living standards enjoyed in the United States. The European social model also enjoyed a low degree of external competition as the Soviet bloc, China and India were not yet integrated into the global economy. In recent years, it has become common to question whether the European social model is sustainable in the face of low birthrates, globalisation, Europeanisation and an ageing population.\n\nSome of the European welfare states have been described as the most well developed and extensive. A unique \"European social model\" is described in contrast with the social model existing in the US. Although each European country has its own singularities, four welfare or social models are identified in Europe:\n\nAs can be seen in the graph to the right, the Nordic model holds the highest level of social insurance. Its main characteristic is its universal provision nature which is based on the principle of \"citizenship\". Therefore, there exists a more generalised access, with lower conditionability, to the social provisions.\n\nAs regards labour market, these countries are characterised by important expenditures in active labour market policies whose aim is a rapid reinsertion of the unemployed into the labour market. These countries are also characterised by a high share of public employment. Trade unions have a high membership and an important decision-making power which induces a low wage dispersion or more equitable income distribution.\n\nThe Nordic model is also characterised by a high tax wedge.\n\nThe Continental model has some similarities with the Nordic model. Nevertheless, it has a higher share of its expenditures devoted to pensions. The model is based on the principle of \"security\" and a system of subsidies which are not conditioned to employability (for example in the case of France or Belgium, there exist subsidies whose only requirement is being older than 25).\n\nAs regards the labour market, active policies are less important than in the Nordic model and in spite of a low membership rate, trade-unions have important decision-making powers in collective agreements.\n\nAnother important aspect of the Continental model is the disability pensions.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon model features a lower level of expenditures than the previous ones. Its main particularity is its social assistance of last resort. Subsidies are directed to a higher extent to the working-age population and to a lower extent to pensions. Access to subsidies is (more) conditioned to employability (for instance, they are conditioned on having worked previously).\n\nActive labour market policies are important. Instead, trade unions have smaller decision-making powers than in the previous models, this is one of the reasons explaining their higher income dispersion and their higher number of low-wage employments.\n\nThe Mediterranean model corresponds to southern European countries who developed their welfare state later than the previous ones (during the 1970s and 1980s). It is the model with the lowest share of expenditures and is strongly based on pensions and a low level of social assistance. There exists in these countries a higher segmentation of rights and status of persons receiving subsidies which has as one of its consequences a strongly conditioned access to social provisions.\n\nThe main characteristic of labour market policies is a rigid employment protection legislation and a frequent resort to early retirement policies as a means to improve employment conditions. Trade unions tend to have an important membership which again is one of the explanations behind a lower income dispersion than in the Anglo-Saxon model.\n\nTo evaluate the different social models, we follow the criteria used in Boeri (2002) and Sapir (2005) which consider that a social model should satisfy the following:\n\nThe graph on the right shows the reduction in inequality (as measured by the Gini index) after taking account of taxes and transfers, that is, to which extent does each social model reduce poverty without taking into account the reduction in poverty provoqued by taxes and transfers. The level of social expenditures is an indicator of the capacity of each model to reduce poverty: a bigger share of expenditures is in general associated to a higher reduction in poverty. Nevertheless, another aspect that should be taken into account is the efficiency in this poverty reduction. By this is meant that with a lower share of expenditures a higher reduction in poverty may be obtained.\n\nIn this case, the graph on the right shows that the Anglosaxon and Nordic models are more efficient than the Continental or Mediterranean ones. The Continental model appears to be the least efficient. Given its high level of social expenditures, one would expect a higher poverty reduction than that attained by this model. Remark how the Anglosaxon model is found above the average line drawn whereas the Continental is found below that line.\n\nProtection against labour market risks is generally assured by two means: \n\nAs can be seen in the graph, there is a clear trade-off between these two types of labour market instruments (remark the clear negative slope between both). Once again different European countries have chosen a different position in their use of these two mechanisms of labour market protection. These differences can be summarised as follows: \n\nEvaluating the different choices is a hard task. In general there exists consensus among economists on the fact that employment protection generates inefficiencies inside firms. Instead, there is no such consensus as regards the question of whether employment protection generates a higher level of unemployment.\n\nSapir (2005) and Boeri (2002) propose looking at the employment-to-population ratio as the best way to analyse the incentives and rewards for employment in each social model. The Lisbon Strategy initiated in 2001 established that the members of the EU should attain a 70% employment rate by 2010.\n\nIn this case, the graph shows that the countries in the Nordic and Anglosaxon model are the ones with the highest employment rate whereas the Continental and Mediterranean countries have not attained the Lisbon Strategy target.\n\nSapir (2005) proposes as a general mean to evaluate the different social models, the following two criteria: \n\nAs can be seen in the graph, according to these two criteria, the best performance is achieved by the Nordic model. The Continental model should improve its efficiency whereas the Anglosaxon model its equity. The Mediterranean model under-performs in both criteria.\n\nSome economists consider that between the Continental model and the Anglo-Saxon, the latter should be preferred given its better results in employment, which make it more sustainable in the long term, whereas the equity level depends on the preferences of each country (Sapir, 2005). Other economists argue that the Continental model cannot be considered worse than the Anglosaxon given that it is also the result of the preferences of those countries that support it (Fitoussi et al., 2000; Blanchard, 2004). This last argument can be used to justify any policy.\n\n\nLocation-specific:\n\n"}
{"id": "6515803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6515803", "title": "Free will in theology", "text": "Free will in theology\n\nFree will in theology is an important part of the debate on free will in general. Religions vary greatly in their response to the standard argument against free will and thus might appeal to any number of responses to the paradox of free will, the claim that omniscience and free will are incompatible.\n\nThe theological doctrine of divine foreknowledge is often alleged to be in conflict with free will, particularly in Calvinistic circles: if God knows exactly what will happen (right down to every choice a person makes), it would seem that the \"freedom\" of these choices is called into question.\n\nThis problem is related to the Aristotelian problem of the sea battle: tomorrow either there will or will not be a sea battle. According to the Law of excluded middle, there seems to be two options. If there will be sea battle, then it seems that it was true even yesterday that there would be one. Thus it is \"necessary\" that the sea battle will occur. If there will not be one, then, by similar reasoning, it is necessary that it will not occur. That means that the future, whatever it is, is completely fixed by past truths: true propositions about the future (a deterministic conclusion is reached: things could not have been any other way).\n\nHowever, some philosophers follow William of Ockham in holding that necessity and possibility are defined with respect to a given point in time and a given matrix of empirical circumstances, and so something that is merely possible from the perspective of one observer may be necessary from the perspective of an omniscient. Some philosophers follow Philo in holding that free will is a feature of a human's soul, and thus that non-human animals lack free will.\n\nJewish philosophy stresses that free will is a product of the intrinsic human soul, using the word \"neshama\" (from the Hebrew root \"n.sh.m.\" or .נ.ש.מ meaning \"breath\"), but the ability to make a free choice is through \"Yechida\" (from Hebrew word \"yachid\", יחיד, singular), the part of the soul that is united with God, the only being that is not hindered by or dependent on cause and effect (thus, freedom of will does not belong to the realm of the physical reality, and inability of natural philosophy to account for it is expected).\n\nIn Islam, the theological issue is not usually how to reconcile free will with God's foreknowledge but with God's \"jabr\" or divine commanding power. al-Ash'ari developed an \"acquisition\" or \"dual-agency\" form of compatibilism, in which human free will and divine \"jabr\" were both asserted, and which became a cornerstone of the dominant Ash'ari position. In Shia Islam, Ash'aris understanding of a higher balance toward predestination is challenged by most theologists. Free will, according to Islamic doctrine is the main factor for man's accountability in his/her actions throughout life. All actions committed by man's free will are said to be counted on the Day of Judgement because they are his/her own and not God's.\n\nThe philosopher Søren Kierkegaard claimed that divine omnipotence cannot be separated from divine goodness. As a truly omnipotent and good being, God could create beings with true freedom over God. Furthermore, God would voluntarily do so because \"the greatest good... which can be done for a being, greater than anything else that one can do for it, is to be truly free.\" Alvin Plantinga's \"free will defense\" is a contemporary expansion of this theme, adding how God, free will, and evil are consistent.\n\nThe biblical ground for free will lies in the fall into sin by Adam and Eve that occurred in their \"willfully chosen\" disobedience to God.\n\n\"Freedom” and \"free will\" can be treated as one because the two terms are commonly used as synonyms. However, there are widespread disagreements in definitions of the two terms. Because of these disagreements, Mortimer Adler found that a delineation of three kinds of freedom is necessary for clarity on the subject, as follows:\n\n(1) Circumstantial freedom is \"freedom from coercion or restraint\" that prevents acting as one wills.\n\n\n(2) Natural freedom (a.k.a. volitional freedom) is freedom to determine one’s own \"decisions or plans.\" Natural freedom is inherent in all people, in all circumstances, and \"\"without regard\" to any state of mind or character which they may or may not acquire in the course of their lives.\"\n\n\n(3) Acquired freedom is freedom \"to live as [one] ought to live,\" a freedom that requires a transformation whereby a person acquires a righteous, holy, healthy, etc. \"state of mind or character.\"\n\n\nMark R. Talbot, a \"classical Christian theist,\" views this acquired \"compatibilist freedom\" as the freedom that \"Scripture portrays as worth having.\"\n\nOpen theism denies that classical theism’s compatibilist \"freedom to choose to be righteous without the possibility of choosing otherwise.\" qualifies as true freedom. For open theism, true libertarian freedom is incompatibilist freedom. Regardless of factors, a person has the freedom to choose opposite alternatives. In open theist William Hasker’s words, regarding any action it is always \"\"within the agent’s power to perform the action and also in the agent’s power to refrain from the action\".\" Although open theism generally contradicts classical theism’s \"freedom to choose to be righteous without the possibility of choosing otherwise,\" Hasker allows that Jesus possessed and humans in heaven will possess such a freedom. Regarding Jesus, Hasker views Jesus as “a free agent,” but he also thinks that \"it was not really possible\" that Jesus would \"abort the mission.\" Regarding heaven, Hasker foresees that as the result of our choice we will be \"unable to sin\" because all sinful impulses will be gone.\n\nTheologians of the Roman Catholic Church universally embrace the idea of free will, but generally do not view free will as existing apart from or in contradiction to grace. According to the Roman Catholic Church \"To God, all moments of time are present in their immediacy. When therefore he establishes his eternal plan of \"predestination\", he includes in it each person's free response to his grace.\" The Council of Trent declared that \"the free will of man, moved and excited by God, can by its consent co-operate with God, Who excites and invites its action; and that it can thereby dispose and prepare itself to obtain the grace of justification. The will can resist grace if it chooses. It is not like a lifeless thing, which remains purely passive. Weakened and diminished by Adam's fall, free will is yet not destroyed in the race (Sess. VI, cap. i and v).\"\n\nSt. Augustine and St. Thomas Aquinas wrote extensively on free will, with Augustine focusing on the importance of free will in his responses to the Manichaeans, and also on the limitations of a concept of unlimited free will as denial of grace, in his refutations of Pelagius.\n\nThe Catechism of the Roman Catholic Church asserts that \"Freedom is the power, rooted in reason and will\". It goes on to say that \"God created man a rational being, conferring on him the dignity of a person who can initiate and control his own actions. God willed that man should be 'left in the hand of his own counsel,' so that he might of his own accord seek his Creator and freely attain his full and blessed perfection by cleaving to him.\"\" The section concludes with the role that grace plays, \"By the working of grace the Holy Spirit educates us in spiritual freedom in order to make us free collaborators in his work in the Church and in the world.\"\n\nLatin Christianity's views on free will and grace are often contrasted with predestination in Reformed Protestant Christianity, especially after the Counter-Reformation, but in understanding differing conceptions of free will it is just as important to understand the differing conceptions of the nature of God, focusing on the idea that God can be all-powerful and all-knowing even while people continue to exercise free will, because God transcends time.\n\nThe papal encyclical on human freedom, \"Libertas Praestantissimum\" by Pope Leo XIII (1888), seems to leave the question unresolved as to the relation between free will and determinism: whether the correct notion is the compatibilist one or the libertarian one. The quotations supporting compatibilism include the one from St. Thomas (footnote 4) near the end of paragraph 6, regarding the cause of evil (\"Whereas, when he sins, he acts in opposition to reason, is moved by another, and is the victim of foreign misapprehensions\"), and a similar passus suggesting a natural, cause-and-effect function of human will (\"harmony with his natural inclinations\", \"Creator of will\", \"by whom all things are moved in conformity with their nature\") near the end of paragraph 8 (when considering the problem of how grace can have effects on free will). On the other hand, metaphysical libertarianism – at least as a sort of possibility of reversing the direction of one's acting – is suggested by the reference to the well-known philosophical term \"metaphysical freedom\" at the beginning of paragraph 3 and, to an extent, a contrasting comparison of animals, which always act \"of necessity\", with human liberty, by means of which one can \"either act or not act, do this or do that\".\n\nCritique that seems more or less to support popular incompatibilistic views can be found in some papal documents especially in the 20th century, no \"explicit\" condemnation, however, of causal determinism in its most generic form can be found there. More often these documents focus on condemnation of physicalism/materialism and the stressing of significance of belief in soul, as a non-physical indivisible substance equipped with intellect and will, which decides human proceeding in a (perhaps imprecise) way.\n\nThe concept of free will is also of vital importance in the Oriental (or non-Chalcedonian) Churches, those in communion with the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria. As in Judaism, free will is regarded as axiomatic. Everyone is regarded as having a free choice as to in what measure he or she will follow his or her conscience or arrogance, these two having been appointed for each individual. The more one follows one's conscience, the more it brings one good results, and the more one follows one's arrogance, the more it brings one bad results. Following only one's arrogance is sometimes likened to the dangers of falling into a pit while walking in pitch darkness, without the light of conscience to illuminate the path. Very similar doctrines have also found written expression in the Dead Sea Scrolls \"Manual of Discipline\", and in some religious texts possessed by the Beta Israel Jews of Ethiopia.\n\nThe Eastern (or Chalcedonian) Orthodox Church espouses a belief different from the Lutheran, Calvinist, and Arminian Protestant views. The difference is in the interpretation of original sin, alternatively known as \"ancestral sin,\" where the Orthodox do not believe in total depravity. The Orthodox reject the Pelagian view that the original sin did not damage human nature; they accept that the human nature is depraved, but despite man's fallenness the divine image he bears has not been destroyed.\n\nThe Orthodox Church holds to the teaching of synergy (συνεργός, meaning working together), which says that man has the freedom to, and must if he wants to be saved, choose to accept and work with the grace of God. St. John Cassian, a 4th-century Church Father and pupil of St. John Chrysostom, articulated this view and all the Eastern Fathers embraced it. He taught that \"Divine grace is necessary to enable a sinner to return unto God and live, yet man must first, of himself, desire and attempt to choose and obey God\", and that \"Divine grace is indispensable for salvation, but it does not necessarily need to precede a free human choice, because, despite the weakness of human volition, the will can take the initiative toward God.\".\n\nSome Orthodox Christians use the parable of a drowning man to plainly illustrate the teaching of synergy: God from the ship throws a rope to a drowning man, pulls him up, saving him, and the man, if he wants to be saved, must hold on tightly to the rope; explaining both that salvation is a gift from God and man cannot save himself, and that man must co-work (syn-ergo) with God in the process of salvation.\n\nFyodor Dostoevsky, the Russian Orthodox Christian novelist, suggested many arguments for and against free will. Famous arguments are found in \"The Grand Inquisitor\" chapter in \"The Brothers Karamazov\", and in his work \"Notes from Underground\". He also developed an argument that suicide, if irrational, is actually a validation of free will (see Kirilov in the Demons) novel. As for the argument presented in \"The Brothers Karamazov\"'s section \"The Rebellion\" that the suffering of innocents was not worth the price of free will, Dostoevsky appears to propose the idea of apocatastasis (or universal reconciliation) as one possible rational solution.\n\nIllustrating as it does that the human part in salvation (represented by holding on to the rope) must be preceded and accompanied by grace (represented by the casting and drawing of the rope), the image of the drowning man holding on to the rope cast and drawn by his rescuer corresponds closely to Roman Catholic teaching, which holds that God, who \"destined us in love to be his sons\" and \"to be conformed to the image of his Son\", includes in his eternal plan of \"predestination\" each person's free response to his grace.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church holds to the teaching that \"by free will, (the human person) is capable of directing himself toward his true good … man is endowed with freedom, an outstanding manifestation of the divine image'.\" Man has free will either to accept or reject the grace of God, so that for salvation \"there is a kind of interplay, or synergy, between human freedom and divine grace\". \"Justification establishes cooperation between God's grace and man's freedom. On man's part it is expressed by the assent of faith to the Word of God, which invites him to conversion, and in the cooperation of charity with the prompting of the Holy Spirit who precedes and preserves his assent: 'When God touches man's heart through the illumination of the Holy Spirit, man himself is not inactive while receiving that inspiration, since he could reject it; and yet, without God's grace, he cannot by his own free will move himself toward justice in God's sight' (Council of Trent).\"\n\nGod has freely chosen to associate man with the work of his grace. the fatherly action of God is first on his own initiative, and then follows man's free acting through his collaboration. For Roman Catholics, therefore, human cooperation with grace is essential. When God establishes his eternal plan of 'predestination', he includes in it each person's free response to his grace, whether it is positive or negative: \"In this city, in fact, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place\" ().\n\nThe initiative comes from God, but it demands a free response from man: \"God has freely chosen to associate man with the work of his grace. the fatherly action of God is first on his own initiative, and then follows man's free acting through his collaboration\". \"Since the initiative belongs to God in the order of grace, no one can merit the initial grace of forgiveness and justification, at the beginning of conversion. Moved by the Holy Spirit and by charity, we can then merit for ourselves and for others the graces needed for our sanctification, for the increase of grace and charity, and for the attainment of eternal life.\"\n\nOrthodox theologian Vladimir Lossky has stated that the teaching of John Cassian, who in the East is considered a witness to Tradition, but who \"was unable to make himself correctly understood\", \"was interpreted, on the rational plane, as a semi-pelagianism, and was condemned in the West\".\nWhere the Roman Catholic Church defends the concept of faith and free will these are questioned in the East by the conclusions of the Second Council of Orange. This council is not accepted by the Eastern churches and the Roman Catholic Church's use of describing their position and St Cassian as Semi-Pelagian is also rejected.\n\nAlthough the Roman Catholic Church explicitly teaches that \"original sin does not have the character of a personal fault in any of Adam's descendants\", some Eastern Orthodox nevertheless claim that Roman Catholicism professes the teaching, which they attribute to Saint Augustine, that everyone bears not only the consequence, but also the guilt of Adam's sin.\n\nVarious Roman Catholic theologians identify Cassian as a teacher of the semipelagian heresy which was condemned by the Council of Orange. While the Orthodox do not apply the term semipelagian to their theology, they criticize the Roman Catholics for rejecting Cassian whom they accept as fully orthodox, and for holding that human consent to God's justifying action is itself an effect of grace, a position shared by Eastern Orthodox theologian Georges Florovsky, who says that the Eastern Orthodox Church \"always understood that God initiates, accompanies, and completes everything in the process of salvation\", rejecting instead the Calvinist idea of irresistible grace.\n\nRecently, some Roman Catholic theologians have argued that Cassian's writings should not be considered semipelagian. And scholars of other denominations too have concluded that Cassian's thought \"is not Semi-Pelagian\", and that he instead taught that \"salvation is, from beginning to end, the effect of God's grace\" and held that \"God's grace, not human free will, is responsible for 'everything which pertains to salvation' - even faith.\"\n\nThe Orthodox Church holds to the teaching of synergy (συνεργός, meaning working together), which says that man has the freedom to, and must if he wants to be saved, choose to accept and work with the grace of God. Once baptised the experience of his salvation and relationship with God is called theosis. Mankind has free will to accept or reject the grace of God. Rejection of the gifts of God is called blasphemy of the Holy Spirit (gifts of grace, faith, life). The first who defined this teaching was John Cassian, 4th-century Church Father, and a pupil of John Chrysostom, and all Eastern Fathers accept it. He taught that \"Divine grace is necessary to enable a sinner to return unto God and live, yet man must first, of himself, desire and attempt to choose and obey God\", and that \"Divine grace is indispensable for salvation, but it does not necessarily need to precede a free human choice, because, despite the weakness of human volition, the will can take the initiative toward God.\".\n\nSome Orthodox use an example of a drowning man to illustrate the teaching of synergy: God from the ship throws a rope to a drowning man, the man may take the rope if he wants to be saved, but he may decide not to take the rope and perish by his own will. Explaining both that salvation is a gift from God and man cannot save himself. That man must co-work (syn-ergo) with God in the process of salvation.\n\nChristians who were influenced by the teachings of Jacobus Arminius (such as Methodists) believe that while God is all-knowing and always knows what choices each person will make, and he still gives them the ability to choose or not choose everything, regardless of whether there are any internal or external factors contributing to that choice. \n\nLike John Calvin, Arminius affirmed total depravity, but Arminius believed that only prevenient grace allowed people to choose salvation:\n\nConcerning grace and free will, this is what I teach according to the Scriptures and orthodox consent: Free will is unable to begin or to perfect any true and spiritual good, without grace... This grace [\"prœvenit\"] goes before, accompanies, and follows; it excites, assists, operates that we will, and co operates lest we will in vain.\nPrevenient grace is divine grace which precedes human decision. It exists prior to and without reference to anything humans may have done. As humans are corrupted by the effects of sin, prevenient grace allows persons to engage their God-given free will to choose the salvation offered by God in Jesus Christ or to reject that salvific offer.\n\nThomas Jay Oord offers perhaps the most cogent free will theology presupposing prevenient grace. What he calls \"essential kenosis\" says God acts preveniently to give freedom/agency to all creatures. This gift comes from God's eternal essence, and is therefore necessary. God remains free in choosing how to love, but the fact that God loves and therefore gives freedom/agency to others is a necessary part of what it means to be divine.\n\nThis view is backed in the Bible with verses such as Luke 13:34, NKJV\n\nO Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her! How often I wanted to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, but you were not willing!” \nHere we see Jesus lamenting that He is unable to save Jerusalem as they are not willing. We see that whilst Jesus wants to save Jerusalem He respects their choice to continue on in sin despite His will that they be saved.\n\n Lutherans believe that although humans have free will concerning civil righteousness, they cannot work spiritual righteousness without the Holy Spirit, since righteousness in the heart cannot be wrought in the absence of the Holy Spirit. In other words, humanity is free to choose and act in every regard except for the choice of salvation.\n\nLutherans also teach that sinners, while capable of doing works that are outwardly \"good,\" are not capable of doing works that satisfy God's justice. Every human thought and deed is infected with sin and sinful motives. For Luther himself, in his \"Bondage of the Will\", people are by nature endowed with free-will/free choice in regard to “goods and possessions” with which a person “has the right of using, acting, and omitting according to his Free-will.” However, in “God-ward” things pertaining to “salvation or damnation” people are in bondage “either to the will of God, or to the will of Satan.”\n\nAs found in Paul Althaus’ study of Luther’s theology, sin’s infection of every human thought and deed began with Adam’s fall into sin, the Original Sin. Adam’s fall was a “terrible example” of what “free will” will do unless God constantly motivates it to virtuous behavior. Humanity inherits Adam’s sin. Thus, in our “natural condition,” we have an inborn desire to sin because that is the person we are by birth. As Luther noted, “Adam sinned willingly and freely and from him a will to sin has been born into us so that we cannot sin innocently but only voluntarily.”\n\nThe controversial term \"liberum arbitrium\" was translated “free-will” by Henry Cole and “free will” remains in general use. However, the Rupp/Watson study of Luther and Erasmus chose “free choice” as the translation and provided a rationale. Luther used “free choice” (or “free-will”) to denote the fact that humans act “spontaneously” and with “a desirous willingness.” He also allowed “Free-will” as that “power” by which humans “can be caught by the Spirit” of God. However, he deplored the use of the term “Free-will” because it is too “grand, copious, and full.” Therefore, Luther held that the inborn faculty of “willingness” should be “called by some other term.”\n\nAlthough our wills are a function of and are in bondage to our inherited sinful desires, Luther insisted that we sin “voluntarily.” Voluntarily means that we sin of our own free will. We will to do what we desire. As long as we desire sin, our wills are only free for sin. This is Luther’s “bondage of the will” to sin. The sinner’s “will is bound, but it is and remains \"his\" will. He repeatedly and voluntarily acts according to it.” So it is, to be set free from sin and for righteousness requires a “rebirth through faith.” A rebirth of faith gives “true freedom from sin,” which is, wrote Luther, \"a liberty [freedom] to do good.”\n\nTo use a biblical word important to Luther, to be set free \"from\" sin and \"for\" righteousness requires a metanoia. Luther used Jesus’ image of the good and bad trees to depict the necessity of changing the person to change what a person wills and does. In Jesus’ image, “a good tree cannot bear bad fruit, and a bad tree cannot bear good fruit” (Matthew 7:18). Like the bad tree that can only produce bad fruit, before a rebirth through faith, people are in bondage to the sinful desires of their hearts. They can only will to do sin, albeit “spontaneously and with a desirous willingness.” Given his view of the human condition, Luther concluded that, without a rebirth, the “free choice” that all humans possess is “not free at all” because it cannot of itself free itself from its inherent bondage to sin.\n\nThus, Luther distinguished between different kinds of freedom: (a) by nature, a freedom to act as we will and (b) by rebirth through faith, a freedom to act righteously.\n\nOrthodox Lutheran theology holds that God made the world, including humanity, perfect, holy and sinless. However, Adam and Eve chose to disobey God, trusting in their own strength, knowledge, and wisdom. Consequently, people are saddled with original sin, born sinful and unable to avoid committing sinful acts. For Lutherans, original sin is the \"chief sin, a root and fountainhead of all actual sins.\"\n\nAccording to Lutherans, God preserves his creation, in doing so cooperates with everything that happens, and guides the universe. While God cooperates with both good and evil deeds, with evil deeds he does so only inasmuch as they are deeds, but not with the evil in them. God concurs with an act's effect, but he does not cooperate in the corruption of an act or the evil of its effect. Lutherans believe everything exists for the sake of the Christian Church, and that God guides everything for its welfare and growth.\n\nLutherans believe that the elect are predestined to salvation. Lutherans believe Christians should be assured that they are among the predestined. Lutherans believe that all who trust in Jesus alone can be certain of their salvation, for it is in Christ's work and his promises in which their certainty lies. According to Lutheranism, the central final hope of the Christian is \"the resurrection of the body and the life everlasting\" as confessed in the Apostles' Creed rather than predestination. Conversion or regeneration in the strict sense of the term is the work of divine grace and power by which man, born of the flesh, and void of all power to think, to will, or to do any good thing, and dead in sin is, through the gospel and holy baptism, taken from a state of sin and spiritual death under God's wrath into a state of spiritual life of faith and grace, rendered able to will and to do what is spiritually good and, especially, led to accept the benefits of the redemption which is in Christ Jesus.\n\nLutherans disagree with those that make predestination the source of salvation rather than Christ's suffering, death, and resurrection. Lutherans reject the Calvinist doctrine of the perseverance of the saints. Like both Calvinist camps, Lutherans view the work of salvation as monergistic in that \"the natural [that is, corrupted and divinely unrenewed] powers of man cannot do anything or help towards salvation\" (Formula of Concord: Solid Declaration, art. ii, par. 71), and Lutherans go further along the same lines as the Free Grace advocates to say that the recipient of saving grace need not cooperate with it. Hence, Lutherans believe that a true Christian (that is, a genuine recipient of saving grace) can lose his or her salvation, \"[b]ut the cause is not as though God were unwilling to grant grace for perseverance to those in whom He has begun the good work... [but that these persons] wilfully turn away...\" (Formula of Concord: Solid Declaration, art. xi, par. 42). Unlike Calvinists, Lutherans do not believe in a predestination to damnation. Instead, Lutherans teach eternal damnation is a result of the unbeliever's sins, rejection of the forgiveness of sins, and unbelief.\n\nThe Anabaptist movement was characterized by the fundamental belief in the free will of man. Many earlier movements such as Waldensians and others likewise held this viewpoint. Denominations today representing this view include Old Order Mennonites, Amish, and Conservative Mennonites.\n\nJohn Calvin ascribed “free will” to all people in the sense that they act “voluntarily, and not by compulsion.” He elaborated his position by allowing \"that man has choice and that it is self-determined” and that his actions stem from “his own voluntary choosing.”\n\nThe free will that Calvin ascribed to all people is what Mortimer Adler calls the “natural freedom” of the will. This freedom to will what one desires is inherent in all people.\n\nCalvin held this kind of inherent/natural free will in disesteem because unless people acquire the freedom to live as they ought by being transformed, they will desire and voluntarily choose to sin. “Man is said to have free will,” wrote Calvin, “because he acts voluntarily, and not by compulsion. This is perfectly true: but why should so small a matter have been dignified with so proud a title?” The glitch in this inherent/natural freedom of the will is that although all people have the “faculty of willing,” by nature they are unavoidably (and yet voluntarily without compulsion) under “the bondage of sin.”\n\nThe kind of free will that Calvin esteems is what Adler calls “acquired freedom” of the will, the freedom/ability “to live as [one] ought.” To possess acquired free will requires a change by which a person acquires a desire to live a life marked by virtuous qualities. As Calvin describes the change required for acquired freedom, the will “must be wholly transformed and renovated.”\n\nCalvin depicts this transformation as “a new heart and a new spirit (Ezek. 18:31).” It sets one free from “bondage to sin” and enables “piety towards God, and love towards men, general holiness and purity of life.”\n\nCalvinist Protestants embrace the idea of predestination, namely, that God chose who would be saved and who would be not saved prior to the creation. They quote Ephesians 1:4 \"For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight\" and also 2:8 \"For it is by grace you are saved, through faith, and this not of yourselves, it is the gift of God.\" One of the strongest defenders of this theological point of view was the American Puritan preacher and theologian Jonathan Edwards.\n\nEdwards believed that indeterminism was incompatible with individual dependence on God and hence with his sovereignty. He reasoned that if individuals' responses to God's grace are contra-causally free, then their salvation depends partly on them and therefore God's sovereignty is not \"absolute and universal.\" Edwards' book \"Freedom of the Will\" defends theological determinism. In this book, Edwards attempts to show that libertarianism is incoherent. For example, he argues that by 'self-determination' the libertarian must mean either that one's actions including one's acts of willing are preceded by an act of free will or that one's acts of will lack sufficient causes. The first leads to an infinite regress while the second implies that acts of will happen accidentally and hence can't make someone \"better or worse, any more than a tree is better than other trees because it oftener happens to be lit upon by a swan or nightingale; or a rock more vicious than other rocks, because rattlesnakes have happened oftener to crawl over it.\"\n\nIt should not be thought that this view completely denies freedom of choice, however. It claims that man is free to act on his strongest moral impulse and volition, which is externally determined, but is not free to act contrary to them, or to alter them. Proponents, such as John L. Girardeau, have indicated their belief that moral neutrality is impossible; that even if it were possible, and one were equally inclined to contrary options, one could make no choice at all; that if one is inclined, however slightly, toward one option, then that person will necessarily choose that one over any others.\n\nSome non-Calvinist Christians attempt a reconciliation of the dual concepts of predestination and free will by pointing to the situation of God as Christ. In taking the form of a man, a necessary element of this process was that Jesus Christ lived the existence of a mortal. When Jesus was born he was not born with the omniscient power of God the Creator, but with the mind of a human child - yet he was still God in essence. The precedent this creates is that God is able to will the abandonment of His knowledge, or ignore knowledge, while remaining fully God. Thus it is not inconceivable that although omniscience demands that God knows what the future holds for individuals, it is within his power to deny this knowledge in order to preserve individual free will. Other theologians argue that the Calvinist-Edwardsean view suggests that if all human volitions are predetermined by God, then all actions dictated by fallen will of man necessarily satisfy His sovereign decree. Hence, it is impossible to act outside of God's perfect will, a conclusion some non-Calvinists claim poses a serious problem for ethics and moral theology.\n\nAn early proposal toward such a reconciliation states that God is, in fact, not aware of future events, but rather, being eternal, He is outside time, and sees the past, present, and future as one whole creation. Consequently, it is not as though God would know \"in advance\" that Jeffrey Dahmer would become guilty of homicide years prior to the event as an example, but that He was aware of it from all eternity, viewing all time as a single present. This was the view offered by Boethius in Book V of \"The Consolation of Philosophy\".\n\nCalvinist theologian Loraine Boettner argued that the doctrine of divine foreknowledge does not escape the alleged problems of divine foreordination. He wrote that \"what God foreknows must, in the very nature of the case, be as fixed and certain as what is foreordained; and if one is inconsistent with the free agency of man, the other is also. Foreordination renders the events certain, while foreknowledge presupposes that they are certain.\" Some Christian theologians, feeling the bite of this argument, have opted to limit the doctrine of foreknowledge if not do away with it altogether, thus forming a new school of thought, similar to Socinianism and process theology, called open theism.\n\nThis table summarizes three classical Protestant beliefs about free will.\n\nMormons or Latter-day Saints, believe that God has given all humans the gift of moral agency. Moral agency includes free will and agency. Proper exercise of unfettered choice leads to the ultimate goal of returning to God's presence. Having the choice to do right or wrong was important, because God wants a society of a certain type—those that comply with eternal laws. Before this Earth was created, this dispute over agency rose to the level that there was a \"war in heaven.\" Lucifer (who favored no agency) and his followers were cast out of heaven for rebelling against God's will. Many Mormon leaders have also taught that the battle in Heaven over agency is now being carried out on earth, where dictators, influenced by Satan, fight against freedom (or free agency) in governments contrary to the will of God.\n\nMormons also believe in a limited form of foreordination — not in deterministic, unalterable decrees, but rather in callings from God for individuals to perform specific missions in mortality. Those who are foreordained can reject the foreordination, either outright or by transgressing the laws of God and becoming unworthy to fulfill the call.\n\nThe New Church, or Swedenborgianism, teaches that every person has complete freedom to choose heaven or hell. Emanuel Swedenborg, upon whose writings the New Church is founded, argued that if God is love itself, people must have free will. If God is love itself, then He desires no harm to come to anyone: and so it is impossible that he would predestine anyone to hell. On the other hand, if God is love itself, then He must love things outside of Himself; and if people do not have the freedom to choose evil, they are simply extensions of God, and He cannot love them as something outside of Himself. In addition, Swedenborg argues that if a person does not have free will to choose goodness and faith, then all of the commandments in the Bible to love God and the neighbor are worthless, since no one can choose to do them - and it is impossible that a God who is love itself and wisdom itself would give impossible commandments.\n\nAs Hinduism is primarily a conglomerate of different religious traditions, there is no one accepted view on the concept of free will. Within the predominant schools of Hindu philosophy there are two main opinions. The Advaita (monistic) schools generally believe in a fate-based approach, and the Dvaita (dualistic) schools are proponents for the theory of free will. The different schools' understandings are based upon their conceptions of the nature of the supreme Being (see Brahman, Paramatma and Ishvara) and how the individual soul (atma or jiva) dictates, or is dictated by karma within the illusory existence of maya.\n\nIn both Dvaita and Advaita schools, and also in the many other traditions within Hinduism, there is a strong belief in destiny and that both the past and future are known, or viewable, by certain saints or mystics as well as by the supreme being (Ishvara) in traditions where Ishvara is worshipped as an \"all-knowing being\". In the Bhagavad Gita, the Avatar, Krishna says to Arjuna: \nHowever, this belief in destiny is not necessarily believed to rule out the existence of free will, as in some cases both free will and destiny are believed to exist simultaneously.\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita also states:\n\nThe six orthodox (astika) schools of thought in Hindu philosophy give differing opinions: In the Samkhya, for instance, matter is without any freedom, and soul lacks any ability to control the unfolding of matter. The only real freedom (\"kaivalya\") consists in realizing the ultimate separateness of matter and self. For the Yoga school, only Ishvara is truly free, and its freedom is also distinct from all feelings, thoughts, actions, or wills, and is thus not at all a freedom of will. The metaphysics of the Nyaya and Vaisheshika schools strongly suggest a belief in determinism, but do not seem to make explicit claims about determinism or free will.\n\nA quotation from Swami Vivekananda, a Vedantist, offers a good example of the worry about free will in the Hindu tradition.\nTherefore, we see at once that there cannot be any such thing as free-will; the very words are a contradiction, because will is what we know, and everything that we know is within our universe, and everything within our universe is moulded by conditions of time, space and causality. ... To acquire freedom we have to get beyond the limitations of this universe; it cannot be found here.\n\nHowever, Vivekananda's above quote can't be taken as a literal refutation of all free will, as Vivekanda's teacher, Ramakrishna Paramahansa used to teach that man is like a goat tied to a stake - the karmic debts and human nature bind him and the amount of free will he has is analogous to the amount of freedom the rope allows; as one progresses spiritually, the rope becomes longer.\n\nOn the other hand, Mimamsa, Vedanta, and the more theistic versions of Hinduism such as Shaivism and Vaishnavism have often emphasized the importance of free will. For example, in the Bhagavad Gita the living beings (jivas) are described as being of a \"higher nature\" who have the freedom to exploit the inferior material nature (prakrti):\nBesides these, O mighty-armed Arjuna, there is another, superior energy of Mine, which comprises the living entities who are exploiting the resources of this material, inferior nature. \n\nThe doctrine of Karma in Hinduism requires both that we pay for our actions in the past, and that our actions in the present be free enough to allow us to deserve the future reward or punishment that we will receive for our present actions. The Advaitin philosopher Chandrashekhara Bharati Swaminah puts it this way:\nFate is past karma, free-will is present karma. Both are really one, that is, karma, though they may differ in the matter of time. There can be no conflict when they are really one.\n\nFate, as I told you, is the resultant of the past exercise of your free-will. By exercising your free-will in the past, you brought on the resultant fate. By exercising your free-will in the present, I want you to wipe out your past record if it hurts you, or to add to it if you find it enjoyable. In any case, whether for acquiring more happiness or for reducing misery, you have to exercise your free-will in the present.\n\nDisputes about free will in Islam began with the Mu'tazili vs Hanbali disputes, with the Mu'tazili arguing that humans had \"qadar\", the capacity to do right or wrong, and thus deserved the reward or punishment they received, whereas Hanbali insisted on God's \"jabr\", or total power and initiative in managing all events. Schools that developed around earlier thinkers such as Abu Hanifa and al-Ash'ari searched for ways to explain how both human \"qadar\" and divine \"jabr\" could be asserted at the same time. Ash'ari develops a \"dual agency\" or \"acquisition\" account of free will in which every human action has two distinct agents. God creates the possibility of a human action with his divine \"jabr\", but then the human follows through and \"acquires\" the act, making it theirs and taking responsibility for it using their human \"qadar\".\n\nThe belief in free will (Hebrew: \"bechirah chofshit\" בחירה חפשית, \"bechirah\" בחירה) is axiomatic in Jewish thought, and is closely linked with the concept of reward and punishment, based on the Torah itself: \"I [God] have set before you life and death, blessing and curse: therefore choose life\" ( Deuteronomy 30:19).\n\nFree will is therefore discussed at length in Jewish philosophy, firstly as regards God's purpose in creation, and secondly as regards the closely related, resultant, paradox. The topic is also often discussed in connection with Negative theology, Divine simplicity and Divine Providence, as well as Jewish principles of faith in general.\n\nThe traditional teaching regarding the purpose of creation, particularly as influenced by Jewish mysticism, is that \"This world is like a corridor to the World to Come\". \"Man was created for the sole purpose of rejoicing in God, and deriving pleasure from the splendor of His Presence… The place where this joy may truly be derived is the World to Come, which was expressly created to provide for it; but the path to the object of our desires is this world...\" Free will is thus required by God's justice, “otherwise, Man would not be given or denied good for actions over which he had no control”.\n\nIt is further understood that in order for Man to have true free choice, he must not only have inner free will, but also an environment in which a choice between obedience and disobedience exists. God thus created the world such that both good and evil can operate freely, this is the meaning of the rabbinic maxim, \"All is in the hands of Heaven except the fear of Heaven\".\n\nAccording to Maimonides,\nIn rabbinic literature, there is much discussion as to the apparent contradiction between God's omniscience and free will. The representative view is that \"Everything is foreseen; yet free will is given\". Based on this understanding, the problem is formally described as a paradox, beyond our understanding.\nThe paradox is explained, but not resolved, by observing that God exists outside of time, and therefore, his knowledge of the future is exactly the same as his knowledge of the past and present. Just as his knowledge of the past does not interfere with man's free will, neither does his knowledge of the future. This distinction, between foreknowledge and predestination, is in fact discussed by Abraham ibn Daud.\n\nOne analogy here is that of time travel. The time traveller, having returned from the future, knows in advance what x will do, but while he knows what x will do, that knowledge does not cause x to do so: x had free will, even while the time traveller had foreknowledge. One objection raised against this analogy – and ibn Daud’s distinction – is that if x truly has free will, he may choose to act otherwise when the event in question comes to pass, and therefore the time traveller (or God) merely has knowledge of a \"possible\" event: even having seen the event, there is no way to know with certainty what x will do; see the view of Gersonides below. Further, the presence of the time traveller, may have had some chaotic effect on x's circumstances and choice, absent when the event comes to pass in the present.)\n\nAlthough the above discussion of the paradox represents the majority Rabbinic view, there are several major thinkers who resolve the issue by explicitly \"excluding\" human action from divine foreknowledge.\n\nBoth and Judah ha-Levi hold that \"the decisions of man precede God's knowledge\". Gersonides holds that God knows, beforehand, the choices open to each individual, but does not know which choice the individual, in his freedom, will make. Isaiah Horowitz takes the view that God cannot know which moral choices people will make, but that, nevertheless, this does not impair his perfection.\n\nIn line with this thinking, the teaching from \"Pirkei Avoth\" above, is then to be read as: \"Everything is \"observed\" (while - and no matter where - it happens), \"and\" (since the actor is unaware of being observed) free will is given \".\n\nThe existence of free will, and the paradox above (as addressed by either approach), is closely linked to the concept of \"Tzimtzum\". \"Tzimtzum\" entails the idea that God \"constricted\" his infinite essence, to allow for the existence of a \"conceptual space\" in which a finite, independent world could exist. This \"constriction\" made free will possible, and hence the potential to earn the World to Come.\n\nFurther, according to the first approach, it is understood that the Free-will Omniscience paradox provides a temporal parallel to the paradox inherent within \"Tzimtzum\". In granting free will, God has somehow \"constricted\" his foreknowledge, to allow for Man's independent action; He thus has foreknowledge and yet free will exists. In the case of \"Tzimtzum\", God has \"constricted\" his essence to allow for Man's independent existence; He is thus immanent and yet transcendent.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31153460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31153460", "title": "Genomics Sector Innovation Network", "text": "Genomics Sector Innovation Network\n\nThe genomics sector innovation network portal was developed to highlight and support the genomics sector in Ontario and was created by the Ontario Genomics Institute.\n\nGenomics is the holistic, systematic, and high-throughput characterization of genomes—the full complement of DNA underlying the genetic make-up of a given organism. Though smaller genomes had been previously completely sequenced, the consideration of the possibility of doing so for the entire human genome crystallized the notion of a new paradigm for the life sciences, intended to enable and accelerate traditional hypothesis-driven research.\n\nGenomics has since been generalized to capture the application of this approach to any and all aspects of life sciences, but many of these applications have also stimulated the coining of a much broader vocabulary of \"omics\" applications.\n\nThe growth of genomics and the resulting boom in technology development have created a tremendous global impact on our knowledge and understanding of the molecular basis of life. This impact ranges from drug and pesticide discovery to industrial enzymology, to crop and livestock cultivation, to environmental remediation, to natural resource management, and to criminal and civil law. This impact of these changes in technological underpinnings has also been reflected in other sectors focused more on societal implications, including public policy, education, journalism, fine arts, and entertainment.\n\nThe genomics sector in Ontario consists of the individuals, institutions, and associations—a sub-set of the province's life-sciences industry—who are working:\n\n\nThis industry includes universities and private research institutions, individual and institutional investors, biotechnology, pharmaceutical and related companies, and the various public and private institutions devoted to servicing and supporting these enterprises.\n\nThere are more than 500 scientists conducting research in genomics located at 20 universities, research institutions, hospitals and government laboratories across the province. These individuals are generating genomics discoveries and innovations as well as using genomic tools and products.\n\nLife Sciences Industry\n\n\nExplore G-SIN\n\nFinally, there are number of technology platforms scattered throughout the province of Ontario, providing world class support and infrastructure for innovative research and services in genomics and proteomics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7195579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7195579", "title": "Gilbert Kennedy, 4th Earl of Cassilis", "text": "Gilbert Kennedy, 4th Earl of Cassilis\n\nGilbert Kennedy, 4th Earl of Cassilis, PC (c. 1541–14 December 1576) was a Scottish peer, the son of Gilbert Kennedy, 3rd Earl of Cassilis. He succeeded to the titles of 6th Lord Kennedy and 4th Earl of Cassillis on 28 November 1558. He fought in the Battle of Langside on 13 May 1568, for the side of Mary, Queen of Scots.\n\nHe married Margaret Lyon, daughter of John Lyon, 7th Lord Glamis; and became a Protestant after his marriage. They had two legitimate children.\n\nCassilis was known as the \"King of Carrick\" for the feudal influence he possessed in that region.\n\nCassilis died in 1576 after falling from his horse.\nAccording to Robert Pitcairn, an early historian of Clan Kennedy, Earl Gilbert was a “werry greidy manne and cairitt nocht how he gatt land sa that he culd cum be the samin.” During the era of the Protestant Reformation, Earl Gilbert desired the Abbey of Glenluce and entered into transactions with the abbot in an effort to hold the abbey by feudal tenure. However, before the transaction could be completed, the abbot died. Undeterred, Gilbert turned to a monk in the abbey, requesting him to “counterfeit” the abbot’s handwriting to draw up a deed and to forge the signatures of all the members of the convent. This ruse succeeded, but, fearing the monk would reveal this deceit, he solicited a peasant “to stik him.” That done, he began to fear that the peasant would reveal the crime and arranged with his uncle, Hugh of Bargany, to accuse the peasant of theft and have him hanged. \"And sa the landis of Glenluse wes conqueist.\"\n\nIn 1565, he seized Allan Stewart, the Commendator of Crossraguel, and imprisoned him at Dunure Castle, seeking to obtain from him certain of the rights over the lands of Crossraguel Abbey. For two days he was left to consider his fate, when Stewart proved recalcitrant, Cassilis had him dragged to the Black Vault of Dunure, and roasted him alive over a fire until he was willing to subscribe to the charters the Earl had drawn up. Stewart was finally rescued by his brother-in-law, the Laird of Bargany, who captured Dunure and procured his deliverance. The rescue, however, occasioned a feud between the subsequent Earls of Cassilis and Lairds of Bargany.\n"}
{"id": "232818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232818", "title": "Grover", "text": "Grover\n\nGrover, also known as Super Grover and Grover Monster, is a muppet character on the popular television show \"Sesame Street\". Self-described as lovable, cute and furry, he is a blue monster who rarely uses contractions when he speaks or sings. Grover was originally performed by Frank Oz from his earliest appearances. Eric Jacobson began performing Grover in 1998; he has performed the character regularly since 2000.\n\nA prototype version of Grover appeared on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" in a Christmas Eve appearance in 1967. This puppet had greenish-brown fur and a red nose. He also had a raspier voice, and was played a bit more unkempt than Grover would later behave. The monster was referred to as \"Gleep\", a monster in Santa's workshop. He later made a cameo appearance in \"The Muppets On Puppets\" in 1968 with the Rock and Roll Monster. In 1969, clad in a necktie, he appeared in the \"Sesame Street Pitch Reel\" in the board room sequences. During the first season of \"Sesame Street\", the character was nicknamed \"Fuzzyface\" or \"The Hairy One\", though neither would be used for his actual name. In his book \"The Tipping Point,\" author Malcolm Gladwell notes that the character \"was used in promotional films for IBM.\"\n\nIn an appearance on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" on May 31, 1970, the character acquired his present name and his appearance was changed to the more familiar puppet with blue fur and a pink nose. In this appearance, Kermit the Frog tried to sing \"What Kind of Fool Am I?\" (accompanying himself on piano), but Grover repeatedly interrupted him. The true Grover \"officially\" debuted in the second season of \"Sesame Street\".\n\nOne of the more frequent sketch segments featuring Grover involves him taking a series of customer service jobs. One of his customers is always Mr. Johnson, a balding, mustachioed customer who invariably becomes frustrated at Grover's poor service and/or his (Grover's) insistence that he is serving him properly.\n\nThe first Grover-Mr. Johnson series of sketches, set at \"Charlie's Restaurant,\" aired in the early 1970s; here, Grover is employed as a waiter and Mr. Johnson is his customer. The sketches followed the same basic premise: Mr. Johnson would order a menu item, Grover would serve the customer, a disagreement results (usually) as a result of Grover's mistakes, and Grover attempting (often, more than once) to correct the mistake with varying degrees of success. Under this backdrop, the sketches served to teach the childhood audience basic concepts such as same and different, big and little, hot and cold, the alphabet, following directions and patience, among other things.\n\nRepeats of the \"Charlie's Restaurant\" series of sketches aired for many years on \"Sesame Street\". In the years since, new Grover-Mr. Johnson sketches have been produced, with Grover taking other customer service jobs and Mr. Johnson as his hapless customer. Every time, Mr. Johnson recognizes Grover as \"that waiter from Charlie's.\" Grover's jobs have ranged from that of a taxi driver and a photographer to a flight attendant and singing telegram artist. One sketch parodied the ABC television series \"\" in a segment where Grover began remodeling Mr. Johnson's home against his express wishes. In another one, Mr. Johnson is the only patron ,and Grover is the only actor, for a production of \"Spider-Monster: The Musical\", a parody of the musical \"\". The play is, of course, a complete calamity and finally comes crashing down on both of them.\n\nGrover also has an instructional persona who wears a cape and gown to provide educational context for simple, everyday things. His lessons are often wrong, leaving himself open to correction by a group of children or Muppets. This, combined with the failings of the Super Grover character, means that Grover can be very self-conscious and timid. He is often a source of slapstick humor and often accidentally injures himself.\n\nEarly in the series, Grover would often greet Kermit the Frog by running up to him and yelling, \"Hey, froggy babeee!\" and then giving him a hard slap on the back, which knocked him over.\n\nGlobal Grover is a more recent series of segments, in which Grover hosts a trip to a foreign country to learn about their culture and customs.\n\nIn 2010, Grover starred in a parody of an Old Spice Commercial called \"Smell Like a Monster\" based on \"The Man Your Man Could Smell Like\", where a clam with \"two tickets to the thing you love\" bit his nose and he rode a cow rather than a horse.\n\nGrover has a semi-secret superhero identity as the well-meaning but inept \"Super Grover\", sometimes presented as the alter ego of Grover Kent, \"ace doorknob salesman for Acme, Inc\". Originally his superhero costume consisted of a pink cape and medieval knight's helmet, with a Superman-style crest on both the cape and his T-shirt, bearing a letter \"G\" on his chest instead of \"S\". During the 1970s and 1980s, \"Sesame Street\" ran a series of Super Grover sketches spoofing the classic Adventures of Superman series (in the opening of these, his name was hyphenated \"Super-Grover\"). An announcer (Jerry Nelson) introduced each episode with the lines:\n\n\"Presenting the further adventures of everybody's favorite hero. The man who is faster than lightning, stronger than steel, smarter than a speeding bullet. It's... Super Grover!\"\n\nWith that, a fanfare sounds, Super Grover bursts through a paper wall bearing his crest, fruitlessly tries to move his helmet up off his eyes, and adds, \"And I am cute, too!\"\n\nAnnouncer:\" And now, on to our story.\"\nSuper Grover: Yes! On to our story!\n\nFrom there, episodes followed a simple formula: Super Grover is flying somewhere over Metro City when he hears the cries of a Muppet child in some small trouble and immediately sails in to assist. The excited child is quickly disillusioned as Super Grover crash-lands nearby. From there, Grover continues to be enthusiastic but no help whatsoever, his \"dramatic\" feats of strength or speed serving only to kill time while the child solves the problem on their own and wanders off. By then, Grover's efforts have usually landed him in a comical predicament of his own.\n\nSuper Grover has appeared in the \"Sesame Street\" theatrical films \"Follow that Bird\" (1985) and \"The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland\" (1999, where it's revealed he stretches his arms out and spins into his costume in homage to Wonder Woman), as well as the 1983 PBS special \"Don't Eat the Pictures\".\n\nFor \"Sesame Street\"'s 41st season in 2010, the character was revamped as \"Super Grover 2.0\", who debuted on \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\", flying in and crash-landing behind the chair where he was meant to sit. His new costume consists of a helmet reminiscent of a Spartan or Centurion, a red cape, and a black rubber vest resembling bike racing gear. Both the cape and the vest are adorned with his crest, now with a lightning bolt added behind the \"G\". Of course, the helmet has a hinged visor which \"still\" tends to fall over Grover's eyes. But now the tagline is \"Super Grover 2.0 - He Shows Up!\"\n\n\"Grover's Mommy\" plays an integral but often unrecognized role on \"Sesame Street\". She has been seen almost exclusively in print, including the many illustrated books starring Grover. She was also occasionally seen in photographs, as a photo puppet, such as on the cover of Volume 4 of \"The Sesame Street Treasury\". Over the course of time, her appearance has fluctuated greatly.\n\nHer earliest known appearance as a Muppet is a 1970s sketch in which Grover speaks to the audience about being afraid of the dark. At the end of the sketch, his mom (Frank Oz) enters his room to kiss him goodnight. Another early appearance (circa 1981) involves his mother (Kathryn Mullen) coming into the bathroom while Grover is telling the audience about how to take a bath.\n\nShe has recently appeared (performed by Stephanie D'Abruzzo) in a brief Elmo's World sequence (from the \"\" episode), with her son as his alter-ego Super Grover, as her own alter-ego, \"Super-Mommy\". Grover crashlands, screaming \"Moooommy!\" and his mom follows yelling \"Soooonny!\" crashing on top of him. They recover, acknowledge each other, and both faint.\nIn the 1971 children's book \"The Monster at the End of This Book\", Grover goes to great effort to keep the reader from turning the pages of the book, because there is a monster on the final page. Grover nails pages together and builds a brick wall to block access; at the end it is discovered that the monster at the end of the book is Grover himself, who is mortified (\"Oh, I am so embarrassed...\"). The late 90s saw a sequel to the book where Grover desperately tries to stop Elmo from reaching the end of the book, eventually directing him to leave the book and enter from the back. Therefore, when both of them reach the end, they wind up scaring each other.\n\nAnother popular children's book, \"Would You like to Play Hide & Seek in This Book with Lovable, Furry Old Grover?\", had Grover trying different ways to hide from the reader, eventually getting upset and begging the reader to just say \"no\" he doesn't see him, even though he was just crouching down in a corner.\n\nIn 1974, Grover went on a learning expedition in \"Grover and The Everything In The Whole Wide World Museum\". He tours rooms such as \"The Long Thin Things You Can Write With Room\", as well as \"The Things That Make So Much Noise You Can't Think Room\". Grover wanders through \"The Things That are Light Room\", returns a rock to \"The Things That are Heavy Room\", and just when he wonders whether it is possible to have a museum that holds everything in the whole wide world, he comes upon a door labeled \"Everything Else\", which opens to take him out into the world. As of 1996, Publishers Weekly ranked the book at seventy-nine on their list of best-selling children's paperbacks, and Lou Harry of Indianapolis Business Journal included the book on his list of twelve examples of how muppets have qualified as quality entertainment. It was written by Norman Stiles and Daniel Wilcox, and illustrated by Joe Mathieu.\n\n\"The Adventures of Grover in Outer Space\" is a Sesame Street storybook featuring Grover that was published in 1984. \"When Grover Moved to Sesame Street\" was published in 1985. He was also featured in \"I Want a Hat Like That\" (1987, reprinted 1999).\n\n\"Sesame Street\" is modified for different national markets, and Grover is often renamed.\n\n"}
{"id": "151750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151750", "title": "Henry of Flanders", "text": "Henry of Flanders\n\nHenry (1176? – 11 June 1216) was the second emperor of the Latin Empire of Constantinople. He was a younger son of Baldwin V, Count of Hainaut (later Baldwin VIII, count of Flanders), and Margaret I of Flanders, sister of Philip of Alsace, count of Flanders.\n\nHaving joined the Fourth Crusade in about 1201, he distinguished himself at the sieges of Constantinople and elsewhere. During the July 1203 siege, Henry was one of eight division generals, the others including Boniface of Montferrat (the crusade leader), Doge Enrico Dandolo (leader of the Venetians), Louis of Blois (one of the first nobles to take the cross), and Henry's own brother, Baldwin of Flanders, who controlled the largest division. During the 1204 siege, Henry led a chevauchée expedition to gain supplies and raided a castle in Philia, near the Black Sea with, according to Robert de Clari, about 30 knights and an unspecified number of mounted sergeants. An ambush was laid for him by Emperor Alexius V \"Murzuphlus\" Ducas, but Henry and his force routed the Greeks soundly, captured a revered icon supposedly containing relics of Christ, and returned to the crusader camp. He soon became prominent among the princes of the new Latin Empire.\n\nWhen his elder brother, the emperor Baldwin I, was captured at the Battle of Adrianople in April 1205 by the Bulgarians, Henry was chosen regent of the empire, succeeding to the throne when the news of Baldwin’s death arrived. He was crowned 20 August 1206.\n\nUpon Henry's ascension as Latin Emperor, the Lombard nobles of the Kingdom of Thessalonica refused to give him allegiance. A two-year war ensued and after defeating the Templar-supported Lombards, Henry confiscated the Templar castles of Ravennika and Zetouni (Lamia.\n\nHenry was a wise ruler, whose reign was largely passed in successful struggles with Kaloyan, Tsar of Bulgaria, and with his rival, Theodore I Lascaris, emperor of Nicaea. He later fought against Boril of Bulgaria (1207–1218) and managed to defeat him in the Battle of Philippopolis. Henry campaigned against the Nicean Empire, expanding a small holding in Asia Minor (at Pegai) with campaigns in 1207 (at Nicomedia) and in 1211–1212 (with the Battle of the Rhyndacus), where he captured important Nicean possessions at Nymphaion. Though Theodore I Laskaris could not oppose this later campaign, it appears that Henry decided it best to focus on his European problems, for he sought a truce with Theodore I in 1214, and amicably divided Latin from Nicean possessions to the favour of Nicea.\n\nDomestically, Henry appears to have a different character than many of the other Crusader nobles as seen in his even-handed and pragmatic treatment of the Greeks. George Akropolites, the contemporary 13th century Greek historian, notes that Henry \"though a Frank by birth, behaved graciously to the Romans who were natives of the city of Constantine, and ranked many of them among his magnates, others among his soldiers, while the common populace he treated as his own people.\" Indeed, when a Papal legate (Pelagio Galvani, Cardinal-Bishop of Albano) arrived in Constantinople in 1213 and began to imprison Orthodox clergy and to close churches on the orders of Pope Innocent III, Henry countermanded the orders on the request of the city's Greek clergy.\n\nHenry appears to have been brave but not cruel, and tolerant but not weak, possessing \"the superior courage to oppose, in a superstitious age, the pride and avarice of the clergy.\" The emperor died, poisoned, it is said, by Oberto II of Biandrate, ex-regent of Thessaloniki, on 11 June 1216. Gardner suggests this happened at the instigation of his wife, Maria of Bulgaria. On his death his brother-in-law Peter Courtenay was crowned emperor in Rome, but never arrived in Constantinople. In the years 1217 to 1219, therefore, the Latin Empire was effectively ruled by Yolanda, Henry's sister and Peter's wife, in regency. The last two Latin emperors were Peter and Yolanda's sons; Robert and Baldwin.\n\nHenry first married (in 1204) Agnes of Montferrat, daughter of Boniface of Montferrat, the Crusade leader, but she had died (probably in childbirth) before her father's death in 1207. Henry's only child by his first wife Agnes apparently died in childbirth with his mother\n\nSome contemporary historians say that Henry made a peace with Bulgarians after the death of Kaloyan, and a marriage was arranged in 1213 between Henry and Maria of Bulgaria, daughter of Kaloyan and stepdaughter of Boril, Tsar of Bulgaria.\n\nHenry had a daughter with an unnamed mistress. This daughter, whose name is not recorded, later married Alexii Slav who established his own state in the Rodophe mountains. He was later given the title of despot.\n\n"}
{"id": "27297277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27297277", "title": "Hugo Wilhelm Arthur Nahl", "text": "Hugo Wilhelm Arthur Nahl\n\nArthur Nahl (1 September 1833 – 1 April 1889) was a German-born artist, daguerreotyper, engraver, portraitist, and landscape painter. Nahl was a painter known for his American Old West paintings of California. He was considered one of California's finest engravers, and was ranked amongst the best gymnasts in California for his time.\n\nHe was the son of Henriette (Weickh) Nahl (1796–1863). Henriette and her first husband, Georg Valentin Friedrich Nahl, had one son, the American West painter Charles Christian Nahl. Henriette and Georg divorced in 1826. In that year, she began a relationship with Georg's cousin, Alexander Theodor Nahl. After tiring of him, she began a relationship with Alexander's brother, Wilhelm Nahl. While Wilhelm was Hugo's biological parent, he considered Alexander to be his father. Henriette and Wilhelm had one other child, a daughter, Laura.\n\nNahl was descended from a family of German artists dating to the 17th century. His great-grandfather was Johann August Nahl, the German sculptor and stuccist.\n\nHis early art studies were with Charles and the family friend Frederick August Wenderoth. He later studied at the Kassel Academy. Nahl moved with his mother, two brothers, and two sisters to Paris in 1846. Here, Arthur and Charles studied with Emile Jean Horace Vernet and Hippolyte Delaroche. Charles went on to study at the Louvre Palace, Palace of Versailles, and Luxembourg Palace galleries. He received his first gold medal at age 16.\n\nThree years later, they moved to New York City, settling in Brooklyn. In 1851, they sailed by way of Panama to California in search of gold. The family bought a mine on Deer Creek near Rough and Ready, California, which fared poorly. Within a year, the family moved to Sacramento where Nahl worked as a woodcarver. After the 1852 Sacramento fire, they moved to San Francisco.\n\nNahl worked in charcoal, crayon, oil, and watercolor. His subjects included animals, landscapes, portraits, and genre works.\n\nIn San Francisco, Charles partnered first with his family friend Wenderoth. After Wenderoth married one of the Nahl sisters and moved to Philadelphia, Charles began a partnership with Arthur. The Nahl brothers worked as commercial artists, daguerreotypers, engravers, and portrait painters. They became San Francisco's leading lithographers and specialized in souvenir stationery. They created many wood carvings from photograph images. With his brother and William Dieckmann, Nahl formed the partnership of Nahl Brothers and Dieckmann in 1867, an art and photograph gallery at 121 Montgomery Street in San Francisco.\n\nWhen Isaiah West Taber bought out the Nahl's photography department, Nahl worked for him, coloring and retouching the photographs. Nahl collaborated with others, including Bret Harte, on the cover design of \"Overland Monthly\".\n\nHis exhibitions included:\n\nNahl's art works are held at the Oakland Museum and the California Historical Society.\n\nThe Nahl brothers were fine athletes. At their home in San Francisco's Bush Street, their backyard gymnasium served as the early version of the Olympic Club and was its headquarters during the period of 1855 to 1860. At Nahl's suggestion, it was named the \"San Francisco Olympic Club\" and, at the club's inaugural meeting on May 6, 1860, Nahl was elected its leader.\n\nNahl married Annie Sweeney in 1865 and they moved to Alameda. One of Nahl's sons, Perham Wilhelm Nahl (1869–1935), became an artist and art professor at the University of California, and founder of the California College of Arts and Crafts. Another son, Virgil Theodore Nahl (1876–1930), went to work as a staff artist for the \"San Francisco Examiner\". A third son, Arthur Charles Nahl, was a mining engineer; his daughter, Margery, was an impressionist painter.\n\nNahl died in 1889 on a ferry in San Francisco Bay en route to Alameda.\n\n"}
{"id": "20299412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20299412", "title": "List of ships attacked by Somali pirates", "text": "List of ships attacked by Somali pirates\n\nPiracy off the African horn has been a threat to international shipping since the second phase of the Somali Civil War in the early 21st century. Since 2005, many international organizations have expressed concern over the rise in acts of piracy. Piracy impeded the delivery of shipments and increased shipping expenses, costing an estimated $6.6 to $6.9 billion a year in global trade according to Oceans Beyond Piracy (OBP). According to the German Institute for Economic Research (DIW), a veritable industry of profiteers also arose around the piracy. Insurance companies significantly increased their profits from the pirate attacks as insurance companies hiked premium rates in response.\n\nCombined Task Force 150, a multinational coalition task force, took on the role of fighting the piracy by establishing a Maritime Security Patrol Area (MSPA) within the Gulf of Aden and Socotra Passage. According to the International Maritime Bureau, pirate attacks had by October 2012 dropped to a six-year low, with only one ship attacked in the third quarter compared to thirty-six during the same period in 2011. By December 2013, the US Office of Naval Intelligence reported that only 9 vessels had been attacked during the year by pirates, with zero successful hijackings. Control Risks attributed this 90% decline in pirate activity from the corresponding period in 2012 to the adoption of better management practices by vessel owners and crews, armed private security on board ships, a significant naval presence, and the development of onshore security forces.\n\nFor more details see: * ECOTERRA Intl. Somali Marine & Coastal Monitor - SMCM updates at:\n\n"}
{"id": "38054120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38054120", "title": "Luigi Agricola", "text": "Luigi Agricola\n\nLuigi Agricola (c. 1750 – 1821 or after) was an Italian painter active in Rome.\n\nHe also worked with jewelry. He painted a \"St. Michael the Archangel\" for the Academy of St Luke in Rome, where he was a professor. He painted an altarpiece of \"St Elizabeth, Queen of Portugal\" for the church of Sant'Antonio dei Portoghesi. Another painter by the same name (1667-1712), originally from Ratisbon, was active in landscape painting in the mid-17th century, settling down in Venice.\n"}
{"id": "2247325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247325", "title": "Margaret of Austria, Queen of Spain", "text": "Margaret of Austria, Queen of Spain\n\nMargaret of Austria (25 December 1584 – 3 October 1611) was Queen consort of Spain and Portugal by her marriage to King Philip III and II.\n\nMargaret was the daughter of Archduke Charles II of Austria and Maria Anna of Bavaria and thus the paternal granddaughter of the Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand I. Her elder brother was the Archduke Ferdinand, who succeeded as Emperor in 1619. Two of her sisters, Anna and Constance, through their subsequent marriages to King Sigismund III Vasa, became Queens of Poland.\n\nMargaret married Philip III of Spain, her first-cousin, once-removed, on 18 April 1599. \n\nShe became a very influential figure at her husband's court. Philip had an \"affectionate, close relationship\" with Margaret, and paid her additional attention after she bore him a son in 1605.\n\nMargaret was also a great patron of the arts. She was considered by contemporaries to be a very pious Catholic and \"astute and very skillful\" in her political dealings.\n\nAlongside the Empress Maria, widow of Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian II, and the latter's daughter Archduchess Margaret, who lived as a nun in Madrid, Queen Margaret formed a circle of women wielding considerable influence over the king. They emphasised Spain's status as a Catholic power acting in the interest of Catholic Europe and also highlighted the unity of the House of Habsburg. They were successful, for example, in convincing Philip to provide financial support to Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand II.\n\nThe pro-Austrian camp at the Spanish court was opposed by the Duke of Lerma, the King's chief minister, who argued that Spain should pursue her own course of action independently of religious or dynastic ties. Queen Margaret was \"melancholic\" and unhappy about the influence of Duke, whom she considered corrupt, over her husband, and continually fought him for influence over the king. In this conflict, she was supported by her favourite Mariana de San José, prioress of the \"Monasteria la Encarnación\", her husband's confessor Father Luis de Aliaga, and her daughter Maria Anna's confessor, the Franciscan friar Juan de Santa María - who was felt by contemporaries to have an excessive influence over the King at the end of his life. The Duke of Lerma was eventually removed from power in 1618, though only after Margaret's death.\n\nMargaret died while giving birth to her youngest child, Alfonso. Her husband never remarried and died ten years later.\n\nMargaret and Philip had eight children:\n\nMargaret of Austria is portrayed by Elena Rivera in the Spanish TV show El Ministerio del Tiempo.\n\n"}
{"id": "254397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254397", "title": "Maria II of Portugal", "text": "Maria II of Portugal\n\n\"Dona\" Maria II (4 April 1819 – 15 November 1853) \"the Educator\" () or \"the Good Mother\" (), reigned as Queen of Portugal from 1826 to 1828, and again from 1834 to 1853. Born in Rio de Janeiro, she was the first child of Emperor Pedro I of Brazil and his first wife, Empress Maria Leopoldina and thus a member of the House of Braganza. One of the two surviving children born when Pedro was still heir apparent to Portugal, she inherited Portuguese titles and was placed in the line of succession to the former Portuguese throne, even after becoming a member of the Brazilian Imperial Family, from which she was excluded in 1835 after her definitive ascension to the Portuguese throne.\n\nMaria II was born \"Maria da Glória Joana Carlota Leopoldina da Cruz Francisca Xavier de Paula Isidora Micaela Gabriela Rafaela Gonzaga\" at 4 April 1819 in the Palace of São Cristóvão in Rio de Janeiro, Kingdom of Brazil. She was the eldest daughter of the Prince Pedro de Alcântara, future King of Portugal as Pedro IV and first Emperor of Brazil as Pedro I, and his first wife Maria Leopoldina (née Archduchess Caroline Josepha Leopoldine of Austria), herself a daughter of Francis II, Holy Roman Emperor. She was titled Princess of Beira upon her birth. Born in Brazil, Maria was the only European monarch to have been born outside of Europe, though she was still born in Portuguese territory.\n\nThe death of Maria's grandfather, King João VI, in March 1826 sparked a succession crisis in Portugal. The king had a male heir, Pedro, but Pedro had proclaimed the independence of Brazil in 1822 with himself as Emperor. The late king also had a younger son, Miguel, but he was exiled to Austria after leading a number of revolutions against his father and his liberal regime.\n\nBefore his death, the king had nominated his favourite daughter, Isabel Maria, to serve as regent until \"the legitimate heir returned to the kingdom\" — but he had failed to specify which of his sons was the legitimate heir: Pedro, the liberal Emperor of Brazil, or Miguel, the absolutist exiled prince.\n\nMost people considered Pedro to be the legitimate heir, but Brazil did not want him to unite Portugal and Brazil's thrones again. Aware that his brother's supporters were ready to bring Miguel back and put him on the throne, Pedro decided for a more consensual option: he would renounce his claim to the Portuguese throne in favour of his daughter Maria (who was only seven years old), and that she was to marry her uncle Miguel, who would accept the liberal constitution and act as a regent until his niece reached majority.\n\nMiguel pretended to accept, but upon his arrival in Portugal he immediately deposed Maria and proclaimed himself king, abrogating the liberal constitution in the process. During his reign of terror, Maria traveled to many European courts, including her maternal grandfather's in Vienna, as well as London and Paris.\n\nMaria's first reign was interrupted by the absolutist uprising led by her uncle, fiancé and regent Miguel, who proclaimed himself King of Portugal on 23 June 1828. Then began the Liberal Wars that lasted until 1834, the year in which Maria was restored to the throne and Miguel exiled to Germany.\n\nThe Marquis of Barbacena, arriving in Gibraltar with the princess on 3 September 1828, was informed by an emissary of what was happening in Portugal. He had the foresight to understand that Miguel had come from Vienna determined to put himself at the head of the absolutist movement, advised by Prince Klemens von Metternich, who was directing European politics, and so it was dangerous for the young Queen to go to Vienna. Taking responsibility, he changed the direction of the journey, and departed for London, where he arrived on 7 October. English policy was not conducive to its purpose. The Duke of Wellington's office openly sponsored Miguel, so the asylum the Marquis had sought was not safe. Maria II was received in court with the honors due to her high hierarchy, but the British prevented their subjects there emigres to go to reinforce the garrison of the island Terceira.\n\nMiguel's coup d'état had not gone unrevealed. On 16 May 1828, the garrison of Porto revolted, and in Lagos an infantry battalion. The revolts were stifled. Saldanha, Palmela, and others, who had come to take charge of the movement in Porto, re-embarked on \"Belfast\" ship, which had brought them; the Porto garrison, reinforced by the academic volunteers of Coimbra and other liberal troops, emigrated to Galiza and from there to England. At the head of a small liberal expedition, the Marquis of Saldanha attempted to disembark in Terceira, Azores, but was not allowed to take the English cruise, whose vigilance he could not avoid for some time after the Count of Vila Flor, later of Terceira, was able to disembark. In time, because in August 1829 appeared in front of the island a huge Miguelist squad that sent to soil a body of disembarkation. Then there was the Battle of August 11 in the village of Praia, where the miguelists were defeated. When the emigrants in England received the news of the victory, they felt great enthusiasm. They soon lost hope of knowing that the young queen was returning to the Brazilian Empire to her father. In fact, the situation of Maria II in the English court, next to the ministry in the power, became embarrassing and humiliating. The Queen left London to meet her future stepmother, Amélie of Leuchtenberg. They left together on 30 August 1829 for Rio de Janeiro, arriving on 16 October.\n\nThe constitutional cause was thought to have been lost. The dispersed emigres (France, England and Brazil) were divided into rival factions. Only Terceira Island recognized the constitutional principles, and even there appeared miguelists guerillas. France was ready to recognize Miguel's government when the revolution of July broke out in Paris in 1830, which encouraged the Portuguese liberals.\n\nIn 7 April 1831, Pedro I abdicated the imperial crown of Brazil on behalf of his son Pedro II, Maria's younger brother, and came to Europe with his daughter and his second wife, to support his daughter's rights to the crown from Portugal and joined the forces loyal to Maria in the Azores in their war against Miguel. He took the title of Duke of Braganza, and Regent in her name.\n\nAlmost at the same time the regency of the Ilha Terceira, named by Pedro and composed of the Marquis of Palmela, the Count of Vila Flor and José António Guerreiro, prepared an expedition that soon took possession of the Azores. While extending the constitutional territory, Pedro disembarked in France, being welcomed with sympathy by the new government and by Louis Philippe I. Miguel's government had defied the immunities of French subjects, had not at once satisfied the complaints of the French government, which had sent a squadron commanded by Admiral Roussin to force the bar of Lisbon and impose humiliating conditions of peace.\n\nPedro left his daughter in Paris to finish her education, delivered to her stepmother, Empress Amélie, with good masters, and left for the Azores at the head of an expedition organized on the island of Belle Isle, bringing his supporters together. Arriving in the Azores on 3 March 1832, he formed a new ministry, assembled a small army, whose command he gave to the Count of Vila Flor, and carried him aboard a squadron which he delivered to the English officer Sartorius, and departed for mainland Portugal. July 8 at Memória Beach in Matosinhos. It was followed by the Siege of Porto and a series of battles until, on 24 July 1833, the Duke of Terceira entered victorious in Lisbon, having won the Battle of Cova da Piedade the day before. Porto and Lisbon, the main cities, were in the power of the liberals. Pedro came to Lisbon, and summoned his daughter from Paris, forcing his brother, Miguel to abdicate in 1834. Maria was thereupon restored to the throne, and obtained an annulment of her betrothal. Soon after her restoration to the throne, her father died from tuberculosis.\n\nOn 7 February 1833, in order to protect the Queen, the 2nd Lancers Regiment was created, first known as the \"Regimento de Lanceiros da Rainha\" (Queen's Lancers Regiment), with the motto \"Morte ou Glória\", \"Death or Glory\" (the same as the 17th Lancers, since Lt. Col. Sir Anthony Bacon was its first commander), a fortunate coincidence since the queen's name was Maria da Glória.\n\nOccupying the Portuguese throne, Maria II was still heir presumptive to her brother Pedro II as Princess Imperial of Brazil, until her exclusion from the Brazilian line of succession by law no. 91 of 30 October 1835.\n\nMaria married Auguste, Duke of Leuchtenberg, son of Eugène de Beauharnais, and grandson of Empress Josephine on 26 January 1835, at the age of fifteen. However, he died only two months later, on 28 March 1835.\n\nOn 9 April 1836, she married the cultured and able Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. In accordance with Portuguese law, Ferdinand received the title of king upon the birth of their first child and heir, Peter.\n\nIn 1842, Pope Gregory XVI presented Maria with a Golden Rose.\n\nMaria's reign saw a revolutionary insurrection on 16 May 1846, but this was crushed by royalist troops on 22 February 1847, and Portugal otherwise avoided the European Revolution of 1848. Maria's reign was also notable for a public health act aimed at curbing the spread of cholera throughout the country. She also pursued policies aimed at raising the levels of education throughout the country.\n\nFrom her first pregnancy, at the age of eighteen, Maria II faced problems in giving birth, with prolonged and extremely difficult labor. An example of this was her third gestation, whose labor lasted 32 hours, after which a girl was baptized in articulo mortis with the name of Maria (1840).\n\nAt 25 years of age and in her fifth gestation, the sovereign became obese and her births became even more complicated. In 1847 the fetal distress that preceded the birth of her eighth son – the Infante Augusto, Duke of Coimbra – brought to the world a child \"quite purple and with little breathing\".\n\nThe dangerous routine of successive pregnancies, coupled with obesity (which eventually caused her heart problems) and the frequency of dystocic births (worrisome, especially as a multiparous woman) led doctors to warn the queen about the serious risks she would face in future pregnancies. Indifferent to the warnings, Maria II merely replied: \"If I die, I die at my post.\"\n\nOn 15 November 1853, thirteen hours after the onset of labor of the stillborn infant Eugenio, her 11th son, Maria II died at the age of 34. The announcement of death was published in the Government Gazette of November 16, 1853:\n\nIn a letter dated November 28, 1853, the Duchess of Ficalho, the queen's maid, reported the outcome to her brother, the 2nd Earl of Lavradio:\n\nQueen Maria II is remembered as a good mother and a kind person who always acted according to her convictions in her attempt to help her country. She was later given the nickname \"The Good Mother.\"\n\nMaria first married Auguste Charles, 2nd Duke of Leuchtenberg, son of Eugène de Beauharnais, grandson of Empress Josephine, who died soon after arriving in Portugal. She then married Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, son of Prince Ferdinand Georg August of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha and his wife Princess Maria Antonia Koháry de Csábrág.\n\n\nShe was Sovereign of the following orders:\n\n\nIn 1832, Letitia Elizabeth Landon published \"The Queen of Portugal\", a poem protesting at her banishment and offering sympathy and hope for a peaceful restoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "9321866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9321866", "title": "Marusia massacre", "text": "Marusia massacre\n\nThe Marusia massacre () (March, 1925) was the response of the Chilean government under president Arturo Alessandri to a strike by the workers of a saltpeter mine leading to over 500 dead, over ninety percent being strikers or their family members.\n\nThe nitrate \"oficina\" (saltpeter mine) of Marusia was located in the foothills of the Andes in the región de Tarapacá, about 4½ miles northwest of the town of Huara. Its monthly production was 865 tons of salt. On March 1925, the mine workers went on strike to demand higher pay, a shorter workday, and better working conditions. While the negotiations were taking place between the company executives and the worker's representatives, the British engineer who ran the mine, a man much hated because of his habit of whipping his workers, was found dead near the mine. A Bolivian engineer was accused of the crime and executed without due process by decision of the company owners.\n\nThe union, under the leadership of Domingo Soto, was afraid of reprisals, and especially of another massacre like the one that had happened only a few years before in San Gregorio, so they decided to take several preventive measures. They contacted the other mines, and proposed to blow up the railroad tracks in order to prevent the arrival of strikebreakers. The government, upon being apprised of the unrest, responded by sending forty soldiers under the command of captain Gilberto Troncoso, known as the \"Hyena of San Gregorio\" for his violent behaviour.\n\nThe women of Marusia organized themselves under the leadership of Selva Saavedra, and decided to resist the advance of the troops. When the soldiers arrived, they entered the town shooting. A group of workers responded by throwing dynamite sticks at them, killing several soldiers and seizing their guns. Then the workers mounted a counteroffensive, taking over the explosives depot of the mine and cutting the telegraphic wires. Captain Troncoso was forced to retreat.\n\nThe miners proceeded to arm the whole town (about 2,400 people). In an open assembly, the union leaders proposed to negotiate their surrender, while some miners advocated calling upon the help of the workers from other mines. In the end, a motion by Soto that the town priest be asked to mediate was adopted.\n\nThe army reinforcements arrived in the form of a 300-man battalion under the command of Colonel Pedro Schultz. They attacked the town in the middle of the night and machine-gunned everyone in sight. Hundreds died, including women and children — the exact number was never properly established. A group of workers were able to mount a hasty defense, throwing dynamite sticks at the advancing troops, and they managed to kill 36 soldiers and to injure 64. The surviving miners escaped with their families into the high mountains. This put an end to the immediate strike, but the conflict flared again less than two months later, and led to the La Coruña massacre.\n\nThe film titled \"Letters from Marusia\" is based on a Patricio Manns novel (1974) inspired by these events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43051308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43051308", "title": "Michael Aspietes", "text": "Michael Aspietes\n\nMichael Aspietes (, ) was a distinguished Byzantine general serving under Emperor Manuel I Komnenos.\n\nA member of the Aspietes family, of noble Armenian origin, Michael Aspietes is most likely the Aspietes whom John Kinnamos records as having distinguished himself in the wars against the Hungarians in 1167. He is next recorded by Niketas Choniates as being active in 1176, in the aftermath of the Byzantine defeat at the Battle of Myriokephalon, when he and John Komnenos Vatatzes campaigned against the Seljuk Turks raiding the Maeander River valley. At the Battle of Hyelion and Leimocheir, where the Seljuk army was destroyed in an ambush, a Turk wounded Aspietes' horse and the panicked animal, rearing on its hind legs, threw the general into the Maeander River, where he drowned.\n\n"}
{"id": "26047161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26047161", "title": "Murder of Jeffrey Howe", "text": "Murder of Jeffrey Howe\n\nJeffrey Howe (1960 – March 8, 2009) was a British businessman who was murdered by Stephen Marshall. His dismembered body parts were scattered across Hertfordshire and Leicestershire, leading to him being known in the press as Jigsaw Man. Marshall became known as the Jigsaw Killer. Marshall initially pleaded \"not guilty\" to murder, but changed his plea to \"guilty\" and was sentenced to life imprisonment in February 2010.\n\nJeffrey Howe, 49, was a kitchen salesman. He had worked around the country and had been a chef in Italy, and was a Manchester United football supporter. His brother described him as \"a jovial, charming character who had a heart of gold and would get on with anyone.\" He had twice been married. Neighbours said that he was aggressive and argued about children playing, and said they had not seen him or his two Jaguar cars for about six months, believing that he rented out his ground floor two-bedroom flat.\n\nStephen Marshall, 38, was a body builder, personal trainer and former bouncer of Ayot Path, Borehamwood, Hertfordshire, and formerly of Park Street, St Albans, where he once owned a gym. He was a work associate and lodger of Howe's at his flat in Southgate, London. Marshall had lived at the Southgate flat since November 2008 after Howe, said to be his 'drinking buddy', wanted to help him out. He stayed without paying rent along with his girlfriend Sarah Bush, 21, from Southgate, who was a prostitute. They stole Howe's food and refused to leave after promising to do so, which he complained about to a friend at Christmas time. They fraudulently claimed housing benefit by forging his signature, saying he was leasing the property to them.\n\nSarah Bush met Marshall when he hired her as a prostitute. He made her change her name from Sara. She spent most of her childhood in care, and has two children. Her first baby, which she had when she had just turned 15, died aged 10 days.\n\nHowe was murdered on the night of 8–9 March 2009. He was stabbed twice in the back with a 4-inch blade, one of the wounds puncturing his lung. Howe may have been alive for up to an hour after he was stabbed. Marshall \"skillfully and cleanly\" removed Howe's limbs, which Home Office pathologist Simon Poole estimated would have taken at least 12 hours.\n\nAfter the murder, Marshall and Bush used Howe's bank account, buying a laptop, shoes, takeaways, and other consumer goods and food. They set up an account with online retailer Littlewoods, some of the purchases being made on a computer in St. Albans library. They wrote forged cheques to clear his account. They sold some of his belongings, including his mobile phone, furniture, and his Saab car, which was sold on eBay. They said to Howe's friend Shehrya Khan that he had \"packed up and left.\" Howe's adopted brother John visited the flat on 28 March and was told by Bush that Howe had not collected rent for a while and had left with his belongings.\n\n\nDetective Superintendent Michael Hanlon from the Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire Major Crime Unit led the investigation, named Operation Abnet and involving up to 100 officers. To aid the investigation, police revealed that the victim was overweight, suffered from eczema, had bleached skin pigmentation on his legs, a fungal infection on his toenails, and was missing two front teeth. They released a picture of the suitcase in which the torso was found. The police decided to keep details of the dismemberment from the public to avoid panic.\n\nA friend of Howe had visited the flat at the end of January 2009 and found the couple living there. After trying to phone him and hearing he had gone missing, she reported him as a missing person on 15 March. Howe's mother, who usually received calls from him several times a week, rang the incident room some time before 21 April to report Howe missing. Two police officers went to the flat at 11:30 on the morning of 16 March and forced entry when there was no answer, searching all the rooms. There was no visible sign of blood, and Howe's passport was on a coffee table. When questioned by police, Marshall and Bush said that as far as they knew he was alive. The police used dental records to identify Howe from his remains, and discovered that Marshall had lived close to where the torso was found. Police arrested the couple at the flat in Southgate, north London on 21 April. The arresting officer said that \"[Marshall] was very, very nervous, jittery, his leg was shaking. Sarah Bush was uncomfortable, and at that point I knew that Jeffrey Howe was going to be our victim.\" Taken to a station in Hertfordshire for questioning, Bush told police that Marshall suffered \"mood swings\" and that she had been planning to leave him. Marshall gave \"no comment\" to police questioning. Howe was publicly named as the victim on 23 April.\n\nBlood was found in the bedroom and bathroom of the flat and under the carpet, and blood was found in Howe's car after it was recovered. Green fibres from a T-shirt in Marshall's bedroom matched fibres on duct tape used to wrap Howe’s body parts. The journey of Marshall and Bush to Leicestershire was traced from CCTV and Automatic number plate recognition.\n\nThe IPCC is supervising a Metropolitan Police Service review of procedure of how Howe's missing person case was handled.\n\nThe trial began on 12 January 2010 and was held at St Albans Crown Court, with Stuart Trimmer QC prosecuting. Marshall initially denied murdering Howe, claiming that Bush murdered him and that he only helped to dismember and dispose of the body, admitting counts of perverting the course of justice and intending to prevent a coroner from holding an inquest. Bush denied all charges. \n\nThe court heard that Marshall previously threatened to \"get rid of\" Bush's previous partner in Epping Forest, and to \"dispose of\" another woman. He had boasted to her of having \"considerable experience of disposing of bodies\". She said the first time he did so he was nauseated and took cocaine to cope, becoming an addict. A witness said that when working for the Adams crime family, Marshall had used a meat cleaver, meat knives, a hacksaw, or a chainsaw to cut up bodies.\n\nA friend of Bush, Sophie Franklin, told the court that when drunk, Bush confessed to friends that she helped Marshall kill Howe after Marshall stabbed him in the back, placing a pillow over Howe's face to stop the noise. Another friend of Bush, Danielle Matthews, said Bush told her she had seen the murder, and that Howe had laughed when Marshall had earlier threatened to kill him unless he left the flat.\n\nOn January 29, three weeks into the trial, Marshall changed his plea to guilty of murder. He was sentenced to life imprisonment on 1 February, for a minimum of 36 years. The judge, Jeremy Cooke, said that little credit could be given for the change of plea as the case was so overwhelming. He dismissed Marshall's claim that he was on the verge of drug-induced suicide when he stabbed his victim in bed.\n\nBush also changed her plea to guilty on 1 February, and was sentenced to three years and nine months for perverting the course of justice by helping Marshall take Howe's head to Leicestershire and was given a concurrent sentence of two years and three months for giving false information about Howe's whereabouts, though she was acquitted of murder. She will probably serve 18 months.\n\nAfter the trial it was revealed that Marshall had previous convictions for criminal damage, assault, battery, cocaine possession, and possessing a firearm. He had attacked his first wife in 2003, and was arrested on suspicion of murdering Minesh Nagrecha in 1996 when his burnt body was found. He was never charged, instead appearing as a witness. Bush had two prior cautions for possession of cannabis and assault.\n\nMarshall was refused leave to appeal in October 2010. A challenge to the length of his sentence was turned down by two Court of Appeal judges in November 2010.\n\nVia his lawyer, Peter Doyle, Marshall admitted in court on 1 February to dismembering four more bodies between 1995 and 1998 and disposing of them in Epping Forest, when he worked for the Adams crime family as a doorman for a London nightclub. This admission was to the surprise of police, but Marshall refused to give them details of the other victims.\n"}
{"id": "13967773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13967773", "title": "Negative branch reservations", "text": "Negative branch reservations\n\nNegative Branch Reservations is an emerging phenomenon from Eliyahu Goldratt's Theory of Constraints. A Negative Branch Reservation is a cause and effect analysis of a situation. This thinking skill is used to map out what can go wrong in a process of change and help to anticipate any negative outcomes. This technique uses these forms in its analysis Thinking Processes of the theory: Future Reality Tree, Transition Tree, or Prerequisite Tree.\n"}
{"id": "23690997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23690997", "title": "Obituary poetry", "text": "Obituary poetry\n\nObituary poetry, in the broad sense, includes any poem that commemorates a person or group of people's death: an elegy. \n\nIn its stricter sense, though, it refers to a genre of popular verse or folk poetry that had its greatest popularity in the nineteenth century, especially in the United States of America. The genre consists largely of sentimental narrative verse that tells the story of the demise of its typically named subjects and seeks to console their mourners with descriptions of their happy afterlife. The genre achieved its peak of popularity in the decade of the 1870s. While usually full chiefly of conventional pious sentiments, the obituary poets in one sense continue the program of meditations on death begun by the eighteenth-century graveyard poets, such as Edward Young's \"Night Thoughts\", and as such continue one of the themes that went into literary Romanticism.\n\nObituary poetry constituted a large portion of the poetry published in American newspapers in the nineteenth century. In 1870, Mark Twain wrote an essay on \"Post-mortem Poetry\", in which he remarked that:\n\nand collected examples, such as the following, occasioned by the death of Samuel Pervil Worthington Doble, aged 4 days.\n\nThe deaths of children and young adults were particular objects of inspiration to the obituary poets, who memorialized them with sentimental verse. Julia A. Moore, a poet from Michigan who published several volumes of poems mostly on obituary subjects, was a well known exponent of the genre. G. Washington Childs, sometimes called \"The Laureate of Grief\", was another well known exponent; he was one of the chief authors of the verse appearing in the \"Philadelphia Public Ledger\" that was noticed by Twain. Lydia Sigourney, while not confining her work to the genre, frequently contributed to it:\"\n<poem>\n\"Rise to thy throne of changeless rest,\" \n</poem>\n\nTwain's character of \"Emmeline Grangerford\", appearing in \"The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn\", was inspired by the genre, and in large measure by Moore's verse. Twain's was by no means the only parody the genre inspired. Max Adeler mocked the obituary poets in his 1874 \"Out of the Hurly Burly\", and Eugene Field produced \"The Little Peach\":\n\nThe obituary poets were, in the popular stereotype, either women or clergymen. Obituary poetry may be the source of some of the murder ballads and other traditional narrative verse of the United States, and the sentimental tales told by the obituary poets showed their abiding vitality a hundred years later in the genre of teenage tragedy songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1671094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1671094", "title": "Phantoms (novel)", "text": "Phantoms (novel)\n\nPhantoms is a novel by American writer Dean Koontz, first published in 1983. The story is a version of the now-debunked urban legend involving a village mysteriously vanishing at Angikuni Lake.\n\nThe novel includes many literary tips of the hat to the work of H.P. Lovecraft, including the suggestion that the novel's 'Ancient Enemy' is Lovecraft's god Nyarlathotep, also known as the 'Crawling Chaos'; and the fact that character of the air force specialist in potential contact with non-human intelligence is named 'Captain Arkham' (cf. Lovecraft's invention Arkham). . Most of these Lovecraftian references were excised from the 1998 film version of Koontz's novel.\n\nJenny and Lisa Paige, two sisters, return to Jenny's hometown of Snowfield, California, a small ski resort village nestled in the Sierra-Nevada Mountains where Jenny works as a doctor, and find no one alive. The few bodies they find are either mutilated, or reveal some strange form of death. Finally, after growing more alarmed by the town's mysterious and alarming situation Jenny manages to call police in a neighboring town to come help.\n\nTogether, the girls and the police, led by Sheriff Bryce Hammond, are able to request help from the military Biological Investigations Unit. The police managed to find only one clue as to what was causing the town's disappearances and deaths. A victim of whatever was trying to kill him managed to write the name Timothy Flyte on a mirror moments before he was killed. Flyte is a British academic and author of a book, \"The Ancient Enemy\". His book catalogs and describes various mass vanishings of people in different parts of the world over the centuries.\n\nIt is discovered that the town was built over the hibernating place of one such Enemy, a creature known as an amoeboid shapeshifter. This Ancient Enemy rarely feeds, but when it does, the effects are devastating. It was theorized that the Enemy either caused or aided in the extinction of the dinosaurs, as well as many of the great mysterious mass vanishings: Mayan civilization, Roanoke, ghost ships, etc.\n\nThe creature consumes other life forms to increase its mass and is able to perfectly mimic other creatures. It can create small \"probes\" or \"phantoms\" imitating consumed life forms to go forth and hunt more prey, obeying the orders of its \"hive mind\"; in addition the creature absorbs the mental capacity of those it consumes.\n\nIts only vital organ is a nucleus located in the center of its main body. The creature's cells are similar in molecular structure to fossil fuels; upon discovering this the scientists use oil-eating bacteria to destroy the Enemy's core or brain. (The genetically modified bacteria are the real-life creations of Ananda Mohan Chakrabarty.)\n\nIn 1992, Koontz filed suit against Zebra Books for the misappropriation of \"Phantoms\" in two titles Zebra published by author \"Pauline Dunn\" (in actuality sisters Dawn Pauline Dunn and Susan Hartzell collaborating under a pen name). Spotted by a reader who informed Koontz's publisher, the two books in question - \"The Crawling Dark\" and \"Demonic Color\" - mimicked \"Phantoms\" extensively and even copied passages word-for-word. The legal team for Koontz won, resulting in the sisters returning their advances for both books and Zebra placing an ad in \"Publishers Weekly\" acknowledging the plagiarism and withdrawing both titles.\n\n\"Phantoms\" was adapted into a movie in 1998 starring Peter O'Toole, Rose McGowan, Liev Schreiber, Ben Affleck, and Joanna Going. It was directed by Joe Chappelle, produced by Neo Art & Logic, and released by Dimension Films. It was filmed in Colorado.\n\nThe film is referenced heavily in \"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back\", including once by Affleck himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "44634622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44634622", "title": "Pieter van Aelst III", "text": "Pieter van Aelst III\n\nPieter van Aelst or Pieter van Aelst III (c. 1495 – c. 1560) was a Flemish tapestry weaver whose workshop commenced by his grandfather was one of the leading weavers of Flanders in the first half of the 16th century.\n\nHe was likely born around 1495 in Brussels (possibly in Aalst) as the son of Pieter van Edingen van Aelst (also referred to as (Pieter van Aelst the Younger'). His father and grandfather were both tapestry weavers. Pieter joined the workshop that his father had set up in Brussels in 1493 and was trained there.\n\nHe became the purveyor of tapestries to the Spanish king Charles V, the then ruler of Flanders. This was likely upon the death of Pieter’s grandfather Pieter van Aelst I.\nIn 1509 he was mentioned as a restorer of the collection of tapestries of Margaret of Austria, the governor of the Habsburg Netherlands. In 1517 he was paid for tapestries of David and John the Baptist made for the English king Henry VIII.\n\nA tapestry after Raphael’s \"Bearing of the Cross\" produced by the van Aelst workshop in 1520 played an important role in the introduction of the Italian Renaissance style in Flanders. The tapestry, which was part of a series of tapestries, referred to as the \"Raphael tapestries\" helped the van Aelst workshop gain important commissions. In 1520 Pope Leo X commissioned a series of 20 tapestries of \"Children’s Games and Medici Symbols\" from van Aelst. The contract required the background of the tapestries to be completely filled with gold. The price of the gold accounted for 14,000 ducats in the total price of 17,600 ducats (i.e. 80%) payable for the series. The series of Children’s Games depicted winged spirits with attributes and emblems representing the emblems of the House of Medici and the Pope himself.\n\nIn 1547 and 1548 he was still listed as a tapestry maker for the court of Charles V. Around 1550 van Aelst was commissioned by the Polish king Sigismund II Augustus to make a large and lavish work consisting of 18 tapestries representing various episodes in the book of Genesis. These works were made in collaboration with six other Brussels workshops.\n\nAs in 1560 his workshop was sold by his heirs to the prominent Brussels weaver Willem de Pannemaker, it is likely that he died not long before.\n\nThe mark 'pva' of his workshop appears on four tapestry series, which were made in collaboration with others: on five of eight \"History of Noah\" tapestries (Wawel Castle, Kraków), on seven of 10 \"History of Abraham\" tapestries, after designs from the circle Bernard van Orley (Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna), on two of eight \"History of Odysseus\" tapestries (Hardwick Hall, Derbys, NT) and on three of six \"History of Moses\" tapestries (Legion of Honor museum, San Francisco).\n\n"}
{"id": "1357514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1357514", "title": "Recombinant DNA", "text": "Recombinant DNA\n\nRecombinant DNA (rDNA) molecules are DNA molecules formed by laboratory methods of genetic recombination (such as molecular cloning) to bring together genetic material from multiple sources, creating sequences that would not otherwise be found in the genome. Recombinant DNA in a living organism was first achieved in 1973 by Herbert Boyer, of the University of California at San Francisco, and Stanley Cohen, at Stanford University, who used E. coli restriction enzymes to insert foreign DNA into plasmids.\n\nRecombinant DNA is the general name for a piece of DNA that has been created by the combination of at least two strands. Recombinant DNA is possible because DNA molecules from all organisms share the same chemical structure, and differ only in the nucleotide sequence within that identical overall structure. Recombinant DNA molecules are sometimes called chimeric DNA, because they can be made of material from two different species, like the mythical chimera. R-DNA technology uses palindromic sequences and leads to the production of sticky and blunt ends.\n\nThe DNA sequences used in the construction of recombinant DNA molecules can originate from any species. For example, plant DNA may be joined to bacterial DNA, or human DNA may be joined with fungal DNA. In addition, DNA sequences that do not occur anywhere in nature may be created by the chemical synthesis of DNA, and incorporated into recombinant molecules. Using recombinant DNA technology and synthetic DNA, literally any DNA sequence may be created and introduced into any of a very wide range of living organisms.\n\nProteins that can result from the expression of recombinant DNA within living cells are termed \"recombinant proteins\". When recombinant DNA encoding a protein is introduced into a host organism, the recombinant protein is not necessarily produced. Expression of foreign proteins requires the use of specialized expression vectors and often necessitates significant restructuring by\nforeign coding sequences.\n\nRecombinant DNA differs from genetic recombination in that the former results from artificial methods in the test tube, while the latter is a normal biological process that results in the remixing of existing DNA sequences in essentially all organisms.\n\nMolecular cloning is the laboratory process used to create recombinant DNA. It is one of two most widely used methods, along with polymerase chain reaction (PCR), used to direct the replication of any specific DNA sequence chosen by the experimentalist. There are two fundamental differences between the methods. One is that molecular cloning involves replication of the DNA within a living cell, while PCR replicates DNA in the test tube, free of living cells. The other difference is that cloning involves cutting and pasting DNA sequences, while PCR amplifies by copying an existing sequence.\n\nFormation of recombinant DNA requires a cloning vector, a DNA molecule that replicates within a living cell. Vectors are generally derived from plasmids or viruses, and represent relatively small segments of DNA that contain necessary genetic signals for replication, as well as additional elements for convenience in inserting foreign DNA, identifying cells that contain recombinant DNA, and, where appropriate, expressing the foreign DNA. The choice of vector for molecular cloning depends on the choice of host organism, the size of the DNA to be cloned, and whether and how the foreign DNA is to be expressed. The DNA segments can be combined by using a variety of methods, such as restriction enzyme/ligase cloning or Gibson assembly.\n\nIn standard cloning protocols, the cloning of any DNA fragment essentially involves seven steps: (1) Choice of host organism and cloning vector, (2) Preparation of vector DNA, (3) Preparation of DNA to be cloned, (4) Creation of recombinant DNA, (5) Introduction of recombinant DNA into the host organism, (6) Selection of organisms containing recombinant DNA, and (7) Screening for clones with desired DNA inserts and biological properties.\n\"These steps are described in some detail in a related article (molecular cloning).\"\n\nFollowing transplantation into the host organism, the foreign DNA contained within the recombinant DNA construct may or may not be expressed. That is, the DNA may simply be replicated without expression, or it may be transcribed and translated and a recombinant protein is produced. Generally speaking, expression of a foreign gene requires restructuring the gene to include sequences that are required for producing an mRNA molecule that can be used by the host's translational apparatus (e.g. promoter, translational initiation signal, and transcriptional terminator). Specific changes to the host organism may be made to improve expression of the ectopic gene. In addition, changes may be needed to the coding sequences as well, to optimize translation, make the protein soluble, direct the recombinant protein to the proper cellular or extracellular location, and stabilize the protein from degradation.\n\nIn most cases, organisms containing recombinant DNA have apparently normal phenotypes. That is, their appearance, behavior and metabolism are usually unchanged, and the only way to demonstrate the presence of recombinant sequences is to examine the DNA itself, typically using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. Significant exceptions exist, and are discussed below.\n\nIf the rDNA sequences encode a gene that is expressed, then the presence of RNA and/or protein products of the recombinant gene can be detected, typically using RT-PCR or western hybridization methods. Gross phenotypic changes are not the norm, unless the recombinant gene has been chosen and modified so as to generate biological activity in the host organism. Additional phenotypes that are encountered include toxicity to the host organism induced by the recombinant gene product, especially if it is over-expressed or expressed within inappropriate cells or tissues.\n\nIn some cases, recombinant DNA can have deleterious effects even if it is not expressed. One mechanism by which this happens is insertional inactivation, in which the rDNA becomes inserted into a host cell's gene. In some cases, researchers use this phenomenon to \"knock out\" genes to determine their biological function and importance. Another mechanism by which rDNA insertion into chromosomal DNA can affect gene expression is by inappropriate activation of previously unexpressed host cell genes. This can happen, for example, when a recombinant DNA fragment containing an active promoter becomes located next to a previously silent host cell gene, or when a host cell gene that functions to restrain gene expression undergoes insertional inactivation by recombinant DNA.\n\nRecombinant DNA is widely used in biotechnology, medicine and research. Today, recombinant proteins and other products that result from the use of DNA technology are found in essentially every western pharmacy, doctor's or veterinarian's office, medical testing laboratory, and biological research laboratory. In addition, organisms that have been manipulated using recombinant DNA technology, as well as products derived from those organisms, have found their way into many farms, supermarkets, home medicine cabinets, and even pet shops, such as those that sell GloFish and other genetically modified animals.\n\nThe most common application of recombinant DNA is in basic research, in which the technology is important to most current work in the biological and biomedical sciences. Recombinant DNA is used to identify, map and sequence genes, and to determine their function. rDNA probes are employed in analyzing gene expression within individual cells, and throughout the tissues of whole organisms. Recombinant proteins are widely used as reagents in laboratory experiments and to generate antibody probes for examining protein synthesis within cells and organisms.\n\nMany additional practical applications of recombinant DNA are found in industry, food production, human and veterinary medicine, agriculture, and bioengineering. Some specific examples are identified below.\n\n\nThe idea of recombinant DNA was first proposed by Peter Lobban, a graduate student of Prof. Dale Kaiser in the Biochemistry Department at Stanford University Medical School. The first publications describing the successful production and intracellular replication of recombinant DNA appeared in 1972 and 1973, at UCSF and Stanford University. Stanford University applied for a US patent on recombinant DNA in 1974, listing the inventors as Herbert W. Boyer (professor at the University of California, San Francisco and Stanley N. Cohen (professor at Stanford University); this patent was awarded in 1980. The first licensed drug generated using recombinant DNA technology was human insulin, developed by Genentech and Licensed by Eli Lilly and Company.\n\nScientists associated with the initial development of recombinant DNA methods recognized that the potential existed for organisms containing recombinant DNA to have undesirable or dangerous properties. At the 1975 Asilomar Conference on Recombinant DNA, these concerns were discussed and a voluntary moratorium on recombinant DNA research was initiated for experiments that were considered particularly risky. This moratorium was widely observed until the National Institutes of Health (USA) developed and issued formal guidelines for rDNA work. Today, recombinant DNA molecules and recombinant proteins are usually not regarded as dangerous. However, concerns remain about some organisms that express recombinant DNA, particularly when they leave the laboratory and are introduced into the environment or food chain. These concerns are discussed in the articles on genetically modified organisms and genetically modified food controversies. Furthermore, there are concerns about the by-products in biopharmaceutical production, where recombinant DNA result in specific protein products. The major by-product, termed host cell protein, comes from the host expression system and poses a threat to the patient's health and the overall environment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41247442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41247442", "title": "Recurrent genital herpes quality of life measure", "text": "Recurrent genital herpes quality of life measure\n\nThe Recurrent Genital Herpes Quality of Life (RGHQoL) measure is a patient-reported outcome measure which determines the impact that recurrent genital herpes has on a patient’s quality of life. It is a 20 item questionnaire with items such as “Herpes makes it difficult for me to plan ahead” and “I worry that sex will trigger an outbreak.”. Lower scores on the RGHQoL indicate a higher negative impact on quality of life.\n\nThe RGHQoL was published in 1998 by Galen Research and was funded by Glaxo Wellcome Research & Development. The content of the measure was taken from qualitative interviews conducted with patients with recurrent genital herpes. The initial interviews were conducted in the UK and then an international panel was assembled in order to translate and validate the measure for the UK, USA, Italy, France, Germany and Denmark. Items were translated and then field tested with up to 20 RGH patients in each country. The test-retest correlations for each language version was found to be in excess of 0.85, meaning every version had good reliability.\n\nThe RGHQoL has been used in numerous clinical studies worldwide as a tool for assessing new treatments and measuring quality of life. It has been utilized in studies investigating suppressive antiviral therapy, famciclovir and quality of life.\n"}
{"id": "53142191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53142191", "title": "Ricardo Ortega Fernández", "text": "Ricardo Ortega Fernández\n\nRicardo Ortega Fernández (April 4, 1966 – March 7, 2004), a Spanish journalist for the television channel Antena 3 in San Sebastián de los Reyes, Community of Madrid, Spain, was shot and killed while on assignment in Port-au-Prince, Haiti to cover the protests in the aftermath of the 2004 Haitian coup d'état.\n\nRicardo Ortega Fernandez was born to parents Charo Fernández and José Luis Ortega in Cuenca, Castilla-La Mancha, Province of Cuenca, Spain in 1966. As a 7-year old, he moved with his family to Alicante,Valencian Community, along the coast known as Costa Blanca, Province of Alicante. His studies were at the Primary School in Cervantes and Montgó, as well as the Historiador Chabás in Dénia. At the University of Valencia, Ortega Fernandez earned a bachelor's degree in engineering, and then went to Russia to pursue studies in nuclear physics. It was while studying in Russia that Ortega was asked by EFE to report and he turned to a career in journalism. After his death, he was declared by the city of Dénia as its \"Adopted Son.\"\n\nRicardo Ortega started his journalism career in the early 1990s working for the Spanish newswire agency EFE in Moscow, Russia, where he remained for eight years. As a foreign correspondent for EFE, he reported from such places as Sarajevo and Chechnya. After moving to Antena 3 in 2000, he reported from New York City, Afghanistan, Iraq, and Washington. His interview with General Ahmad Shah Massoud is well known. He was on a leave in New York City from Antena 3, when they offered that he cover the Haitian crisis after the coup d'état.\n\nIn late February, President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was removed from Haiti by the US Military. On March 7, 2015, Ortega had been on assignment in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, covering street protests for his tenth day when violence erupted around 2 p.m. It was reported that the initial shots came from anti-Aristide protester but that shots were returned from the other direction. In the crossfire, US photojournalist Michael Laughlin, \"Sun-Sentinel\" of Florida, was wounded. There were two accounts of Ortega's killing. According to US journalist Peter Andrew Bosh of the \"Miami Herald\", Ortega had been in a house, located at Rue Lamarre 41-43, and providing aid with others to his wounded colleague, and when he stepped out of the house, he was shot twice. However, German photojournalist Marcel Mettelsiefen said Ortega was in a courtyard when he was shot from above. He could have been shot by either anti-Aristide protesters or by US Marines, although a Marine spokesperson disputed this assertion at the time. He took two bullets, one to the chest and one to the abdomen, in the accounts. The group was pinned down by gunfire and had to leave Ortega and others wounded unattended for several minutes. Witnesses say that one of bullets that hit Ortega in either the chest or abdomen also hit a Haitian citizen Joseph Franois. His interpreter was also killed.\n\nOrtega Ferndandez died while being treated at the Hôpital du Canapé Vert. His last words before arriving at the hospital were documented as being \"I can't breathe.\" A doctor told reporters that he was among the 5 or 6 killed along with 20 other people who had been injured by a \"high velocity\" weapon.\n\nWeeks afterwards, a supporter of Aristide and a police inspector were arrested and investigated for their involvement in the crisis. Both have been released since and not charged. According to journalist and film maker Kevin Pina, the former chief of the police station known as La Ville, police inspector Jean-Michel Gaspard, was arrested but released shortly after his lawyer demanded the US Embassy reveal the identity of a suspected \"gunman\" US Marines said fired on them and they admitted killing on March 7, 2004.\n\nAlready in 2004, witnesses claimed that the rounds that killed Ortega were shot by US Marines and not by pro-Aristide supporters. Ortega-Fernandez's parents Jose Luis Ortega and Charo Fernandez called for the investigation of their son's death as well as international attention to further investigation. In April 2007, Spanish authorities called on Haiti to create a commission to look more into the case but no commission has been formed. In 2008, a Haitian Judge Bernard Saint-Vil determined that the shots fired on Ortega most likely originated from the foreign soldiers. Spanish Judge Pablo Ruz, representing the Central Criminal Court, reopened the case on June 24, 2008. The criminal court has jurisdiction over violent cases of Spanish citizens that occur in a foreign country.\n\nAfter Ricardo Ortega was killed in Port-au-Prince, Haitian journalists experienced more violence as pro- and anti-Aristide positions hardened. In Haiti, Abdias Jean, Robenson Laraque, and Jacques Roche were among those killed.\n\nKoïchiro Matsuura, director-general of UNESCO, said, \"I deplore the death of Ricardo Ortega, one of at least six people who appear to have been killed in indiscriminate shooting, It is essential that journalists be able to carry out their work in conditions of reasonable safety...and I urge the authorities to seek and prosecute the perpetrators of these attacks in which dozens are reported to have been wounded...\"\n\nAs his body arrived in Madrid, the employees of Antena 3 paid homage to Ortega-Fernandez and the work he had accomplished on various assignments including support for and coverage of the 9/11 attacks in New York City in 2001.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49320760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49320760", "title": "Rob Roy (dog)", "text": "Rob Roy (dog)\n\nRob Roy (1922–1928) was a white male collie owned by Calvin Coolidge. Coolidge's favorite pet, he was acquired by Grace Coolidge in 1922 after she became enamored with collies, having seen one of the breed perform in a circus. He later lived with the family in the White House.\n\nRob Roy was immortalized in a Howard Chandler Christy portrait of Grace Coolidge. He died in 1928 after a short illness.\n\nRob Roy was acquired by Calvin Coolidge's wife, Grace Coolidge, in 1922 from Island White Kennels in Oshkosh, Wisconsin. Grace Coolidge had reportedly become enthralled by collies after seeing one of the breed perform in a circus. During the period in which the Coolidges owned Rob Roy, they also had a female collie named Prudence Prim. In 1928 Rob Roy became ill and was unsuccessfully treated at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, where he died. Upon his death Coolidge wistfully remarked, \n\nRob Roy was known as Coolidge's \"favorite\" among a menagerie of pets he kept that included dogs, birds, cats, and raccoons. Coolidge himself described Rob Roy as a \"stately gentleman of great courage and fidelity\". Rob Roy was known to lead Coolidge to the Oval Office each morning in a stoic manner with gaze fixed forward. Rob Roy's stately characteristics aside, Coolidge frequently tried to trick the dog into chasing animals that appeared on screen during the showing of films at the White House. According to Harry Truman, Coolidge once ordered Senator Morris Sheppard to surrender his sausage to the dog while Coolidge and Sheppard were having breakfast.\n\nA portrait of Grace Coolidge by the American artist and illustrator Howard Chandler Christy that was hung in the Red Room of the White House shows the First Lady with Rob Roy. The dog's pose – a gaze directed toward Grace Coolidge – was achieved by feeding it candy from Coolidge's hand throughout the portrait sittings. The life-size painting is featured in the White House China Room.\n\n"}
{"id": "20890836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20890836", "title": "Rowley Thomas", "text": "Rowley Thomas\n\nRowland 'Rowley' Lewis Thomas (7 November 1863 – 21 January 1949) was a Welsh international rugby union forward who played club rugby for London Welsh, of whom he was a founding member, and county rugby for Middlesex. Thomas played international rugby for Wales and was capped seven times.\n\nThomas played rugby for several teams throughout his playing career, including Llanelli and University College Hospital, but it his time with London Welsh that brought him to the attention of the international selectors. Thomas was part of a group of like-minded Welsh sportsmen, based in London, that decide to create their own club. In 1885 Thomas was one of the founding members of London Welsh, becoming a member of the committee. In September of the same year, Thomas was selected as part of the very first London Welsh team against London Scottish, alongside Welsh internationals Arthur Gould and Martyn Jordan. During the 1889/90 season, Thomas was given the captaincy of London Welsh and saw the club's first visiting Welsh team, when the club welcomed Llanelli in 1889.\n\nIn 1889 Thomas was first selected to represent Wales in a match against Scotland, as part of the Home Nations Championship. Under the captaincy of Frank Hill, Wales lost the game by two tries to nil. Thomas played in the very next game of the tournament to Ireland which ended in another Welsh loss to an identical score line as the Scotland game. Thomas played just one game in the next year's Championship, an away draw to Ireland. The 1891 tournament saw Thomas selected for all three matches, including his first game against England. During the tournament, Thomas switched from London Welsh to Llanelli, and played his final three international matches while representing the South Wales club. His final game was in 1892 against England which saw Wales beaten comprehensively.\n\nWales (rugby union)\n\nThomas was educated at Llandovery College in Wales but studied medicine in London. He was seen as considerable all-round sportsman, and was an excellent shot, proficient horseman and keen angler. During World War I, Thomas served his country as a medical officer in the Welsh Horse Cavalry Regiment, based in Egypt. Thomas was a medical coroner for West Carmarthenshire for 24 years.\n\nHe was also a leading member of the Carmarthenshire Hunt, and at his funeral his hunting clothes and boots were placed alongside him in his coffin. Thomas was also a descendent of Daniel Rowland the Methodist cleric.\n\n"}
{"id": "6130657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6130657", "title": "Serhiy Dzyndzyruk", "text": "Serhiy Dzyndzyruk\n\nSerhiy Dzyndzyruk (Ukrainian: Сергій Дзиндзирук; born 1 March 1976) is a Ukrainian professional boxer and a former WBO super welterweight champion.\n\nAs an amateur he won a silver medal at the 1997 World Amateur Boxing Championships losing in the final to Oleg Saitov. He also won silver in the European Championship in 1998. He won 195 out of 220 fights.\n\nHis record is 37-1 (23 KOs). He won the WBO world junior middleweight champion title against Daniel Santos (boxer). After that bout, he defended his title six times. He used to fight out of Germany before moving to America and signing with promoters Gary Shaw and Artie Pelullo.\n\nOn May 14, 2010 on Showtime Championship Boxing, he faced Daniel Dawson in defense of his WBO World Junior Middleweight Championship. He defeated Dawson by TKO in the 10th round.\n\nDzinziruk moved up in weight to challenge the slick Argentinian boxer Sergio Martinez on March 12, 2011 at the Foxwoods Resort Casino, Mashantucket, Connecticut for the vacant WBC Diamond belt. Martinez dominated the fight, even outjabbing Dzinziruk, and won by TKO in round 8 after knocking his opponent down 5 times in the fight. Prior to his fight with Martinez, Dzinziruk had never been knocked down in his professional and amateur careers.\n\nOn the 5th Of October 2011, the WBO stripped Dzinziruk of the junior middleweight title due to inactivity, with his last title defence being his on May 14, 2010 against Daniel Dawson. This was because Dzinziruk had been battling with a number of injuries, and after pulling out of his scheduled September 30 defence against Lukas Konecny, the interim WBO junior middleweight champion Zaurbek Baysangurov was promoted to the status of \"full champion.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27912530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27912530", "title": "Social media and suicide", "text": "Social media and suicide\n\nSocial media and suicide is a relatively new phenomenon, which influences suicide-related behavior. Suicide is a leading cause of death worldwide. According to the World Health Organization, in the year 2020, approximately 1.53 million people will die from suicide. There is increasing evidence that this behavior of using social media affects and changes people's lives, especially in teenagers. Suicide has been identified not only as an individual phenomenon, but it is influenced by social and environmental factors.\n\nIn one of the widely known cases, the death of Phoebe Prince, it is generally believed that her actions of suicide were motivated by cyberbullying. Cyberbullying is a huge problem linked to increases in suicide rates (Mason, 2008). One explanation that has arisen, is the cause and effect relationship between social media advertised suicides and younger generations being influenced by them. Aside from kids being influenced by suicide tendencies online, there is the psychological explanation behind \"15 minutes of fame\". The first person who committed suicide live on today's social media platforms – Océane Ebem, an eighteen-year-old woman from Égly in the suburbs of Paris – explicitly said, \"I want to communicate a message, and I want it to be passed around, even if it's very shocking.\" \n\nThe media tends to popularize videos and social media posts in order to inform the public of the rising trouble, which creates popular appeal to the young and immature minds of teenagers. Social media could provide higher risks with the promotion of different kinds of pro-suicidal sites, message boards, chat rooms and forums. In addition, the Internet not only reports suicide incidents but documents suicide methods (for example, suicide pacts, an agreement between two or more people to commit suicide at a particular time and often by the same lethal means). The role the Internet plays, particularly social media, in suicide-related behavior is a topic of growing interest.\n\nSocial media is a relatively new phenomenon that has swept the world during the past decade. There is increasing evidence that the Internet and social media can influence suicide-related behavior. Internet use can cause more exposure to graphic content and lead to cyberbullying, in many cases over the past ten years cyberbullying has led to self harm and suicide (Marchant 1). Suicide is a considerable public health problem. More than 30,000 suicide deaths in the United States and nearly 1 million suicide deaths worldwide occur every year.\n\nIn a case series review of suicide, researchers looked at documentation from coroner's inquests for all deaths involving an element of self-harm between 2011 and 2013. This review's emerging evidence suggests the age group most affected by the association between social media use and suicide is older than has previously been assumed: in one small study of coroner's investigations, it was found social media evidence was more likely to be cited at inquest in cases where the deceased was aged over 45 years than under. However, the findings are unclear and may solely reflect greater use of social media. The findings also show that fewer than 20% of Facebook users are aged over 45, contrasting with the demographics of the social media subset. Given the ages of cases identified in this review, further research is needed to conclude the age of users. It is very important that more studies are done to find the age range that is most affected by social media and suicide to best address different intervention methods.\n\nSocial media platforms, such as chat rooms, blogging Web sites (e.g., Tumblr, Reddit), video sites (e.g., YouTube), social networking sites (e.g., Facebook, MySpace, Twitter, Google+), as well as e-mail, text messaging, and video chat, have transformed traditional methods of communication by allowing the instantaneous and interactive sharing of information created and controlled by individuals, groups, organizations, and governments. As of the third quarter of 2015, Facebook had 1.55 billion monthly active users. An immense quantity of information on the topic of suicide is available on the Internet and via social media. The information available on social media on the topic of suicide can influence suicidal behavior, both negatively and positively.\n\nContributors to these social media platforms may also exert peer pressure to commit suicide, idolize those who have completed suicide, and facilitate suicide pacts. These pro-suicidal sites reported the following. For example, on a Japanese message board in 2008 it was shared that a person can kill himself/herself using hydrogen sulfide gas. Shortly after 220 people attempted suicide in this way, and 208 were successful. Biddle et al. conducted a systematic Web search of 12 suicide-associated terms (e.g., suicide, suicide methods, how to kill yourself, and best suicide methods) to analyze the search results and found that pro-suicide sites and chat rooms that discussed general issues associated with suicide most often occurred within the first few hits of a search. Recupero et al. also conducted a study that examined suicide-related sites that can be found using Internet search engines. Of 373 Web site hits, 31% were suicide neutral, 29% were anti-suicide, and 11% were pro-suicide. Together, these studies have shown that obtaining pro-suicide information on the Internet, including detailed information on suicide methods, is very easy.\n\nAlthough, the public opinion is that message boards are harmful, the following studies show how they point to suicide prevention and have positive influences. A study using content analysis analyzed all of the postings on the AOL Suicide Bulletin Board over 11 months, and concluded that most contributions contained positive, empathetic and supportive postings (Eichenberg, 2008). Then, a multi-method study was able to demonstrate that the users of such forums experience a great deal of social support and only a small amount of social strain. Lastly, in a survey participants were asked to assess the extent of their suicidal thoughts on a 7-level scale (0, absolutely no suicidal thoughts, to 7, very strong suicidal thoughts) for the time directly before their first forum visit and at the time of the survey (Eichenberg, 2008). The study found significant reduction after using the forum. The study however cannot conclude the forum is the only reason for decrease. Together, these studies show how forums can reduce the number of suicides.\n\nAn example of how social media can play a role in suicide is that of a male adolescent who arrived at the emergency department (ED) with his parents after a suspected medication ingestion in which he attempted to overdose. Beforehand he had sent an ex-girlfriend a Snapchat picture of himself holding a bottle of acetaminophen, which was forwarded to the young male's parents. This picture was used by medical experts to establish a time of his ingestion, oral N-acetylcysteine was discovered and he was brought to a pediatric care facility, where he had an uneventful recovery and psychiatric evaluation. \n\nIn 2013, the main cause of nine teen suicides was due to hateful anonymous messages on Ask.fm.\n\nSuicide is the third leading cause of death for youth between the ages of 10 and 24. Cyberbullicide is the term used to define suicide due to having indirect or direct experiences with online aggression (Napolitano, 2013). Cyberbullying and cyber harassment are two prevalent ways to lead to pro-suicide behavior. In the past, bullying needed a physical location to harass the victim. Yet, this is not the case in the 21st century. Bullies have additional mediums such as social media to harass victims, often without consequence (Mason, 2008). Cyberbullying typically refers to when a child or adolescent is intentionally and repeatedly targeted by another child or teen in the form of threats or harassments or humiliated or embarrassed by means of cellular phones or Internet technologies such as e-mail, texting, social networking sites, or instant messaging. Cyberbullying usually occurs in the form of rumours, embarrassment, gossip, exclusion and attacks on the reputation and relationships of individuals. As a result, the victims may develop problems with their mental health and in some extreme cases, some have become suicidal. Cyber harassment and cyber stalking typically refer to these same actions when they involve adults. Social networking sites, regardless of security measures, can only offer a certain amount of protection to the privacy of the users, and this often overlooked by younger users. By being on sites such as Facebook or Instagram, users are making them open to harassment from online predators. Since there is an enormous amount of information available on these sites, concerns have been raised that sex offenders may access these sites and, using the personal information displayed, attempt to gain the trust of the user, making them vulnerable to online attacks, seduction, or sexual grooming. The offenders may then lure the users into a face to face meeting where they may be molested or sexually assaulted. (Mitchell et al., 2008). A review of data collected between 2004 and 2010 via survey studies indicated that lifetime cyberbullying victimization rates ranged from 20.8% to 40.6% and offending rates ranged from 11.5% to 20.1%.\nTo combat and disuade Cyberbullying, some states are making adjustments to legislature. If found guilty of Cyberbullying, some states such as California will hold the person committing the crime liable by charging fines or even jail time. In one particular case in Florida, two preteens were arressted after they were accused of cyberbullying another female student. The victim killed herself by hanging herself in her closet with a dog leash. The investigators indicated that the suicide was prompted due to the cyberbullying perpetrated by the two girls. The girls were later charged with cyberstalking. \n\nSuicide contagion can be viewed within the larger context of behavioral contagion, which has been described as a situation in which the same behavior spreads quickly and spontaneously through a group (Gould, Jamieson, & Romer, 2003). Persons most susceptible to suicide contagions are those under 25 years of age. A recent study by Dunlop et al. specifically examined possible contagion effects on suicidal behavior via the Internet and social media. Of 719 individuals aged 14 to 24 years, 79% reported being exposed to suicide-related content through family, friends, and traditional news media such as newspapers, and 59% found such content through Internet sources. These information may pose a hazard for vulnerable groups by influencing decisions to die by suicide. In particular, interactions via chat rooms or discussion forums may foster peer pressure to die by suicide, encourage users to idolize those who have completed suicide, or facilitate suicide pacts. Recently there has been a trend in creating memorial social media pages in honor of a deceased person. In New Zealand, a memorial page was made after a person committed suicide, this resulted in the suicide of 8 other persons thereafter, which further shows the power of the media contagion effect.\n\nIt has generally been found that those who post suicide notes online tend to not receive help.\n\nSeveral notable cases support this argument below:\n\n\nA suicide pact is an agreement between two or more people to die by suicide at a particular time and often by the same lethal means. Suicide pacts are found to be rare (Gould, Jamieson, & Romer, 2003). Traditional suicide pacts have typically developed among individuals who know each other, such as a couple of friends. A suicide pact that has been formed or developed in some way through the use of the Internet is a cybersuicide pact. A primary difference between cybersuicide pacts and traditional suicide pacts is that these pacts are usually formed among complete strangers. They use online chat rooms and virtual bulletin boards and forums as an unmediated avenue to share their feelings with other like-minded individuals, which can be easier than talking about such thoughts and feelings in person.\n\nThe first documented use of the Internet to form a suicide pact was reported in Japan in 2000. It has now become a more common form of suicide in Japan, where the suicide rate increased from 34 suicides in 2003 to 91 suicides in 2005. South Korea now has one of the world's highest suicide rates (24.7/100 000 in 2005), and evidence exists that cybersuicide pacts may account for almost one third of suicides in that country.\n\nGerald Krein and William Francis Melchert-Dinkel were accused of arranging internet suicide pacts.\n\nThere are at least 2 suicide interventions through social media:\n\n\nSome online groups, such as alt.suicide.holiday, have emerged as discussion and support groups for suicidal individuals. Research indicates that providing more online support for suicidal people would be more effective than shutting down pro-suicide websites. The Defense Centers of Excellence have expressed interest in using social media for suicide prevention. Facebook groups have sometimes been set up for suicide prevention purposes, including one that attracted 47,000 members. Although many teens and preteens encounter suicide-related posts from peers on different social media apps, they also encounter suicide prevention hotlines and website links as well (Martin 2).\nSAMHSA's Suicide Prevention Lifeline operates on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube.\nAFSP (American Foundation For Suicide Prevention) is trying to understanding and preventing suicide through research, education, and advocacy.\n\nRecently, Reidenberg, the executive director of the United States-based prevention organization Suicide Awareness Voices of Education (SAVE), has become very involved in responding to suicidal messages. Facebook, the world's largest social network, has now implemented a direct intervention method. 25 of the 50 American states, when a user posts a message on Facebook containing a phrase that its algorithms flag as indicating suicidal thoughts or intentions, a banner pops up on the user's page (Eggertson, 2015). If the user's page is flagged the user is provided with the number of the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and given tips and links to support videos aligned with best prevention practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "24422245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24422245", "title": "Stuck In Neutral", "text": "Stuck In Neutral\n\nStuck in Neutral is a young adult novel by Terry Trueman. It focuses deeply on the subject of cerebral palsy, quality of life, and euthanasia. The main character is Shawn McDaniel who has been diagnosed with cerebral palsy. The story, told from Shawn's perspective, also focuses on how his family copes with the condition. Shawn's mother, brother, sister, and father are all talked about in the book. Stuck in Neutral received recognition as an Honor Book for the Michael L. Printz Award in 2001.\n\nTrueman wrote the novel because his own son has been diagnosed with cerebral palsy, and he wanted to educate young readers both about the condition and about showing tolerance for those with severe disabilities.\n\nThe book follows Shawn McDaniel's first-person point of view. He is a 14-year-old boy with cerebral palsy, a neurological disorder, affecting motor control. In Shawn's case, his entire body is affected; he has absolutely no control over any of his bodily functions. Shawn's condition is a major part of the story\n\nIn the first few chapters, Shawn McDaniel explains to the reader his condition. He includes what he feels to be positive sides of his condition, such as his perfect memory. Shawn remembers every experience, every sensation, and everything he's ever learned from school or television. Unfortunately due to his complete lack of motor control Shawn is unable to talk or make contact with his family in any way, it is believed by those around him that Shawn's mind has no higher functional skills. A running theme throughout the book is Shawn's desire to be truly known by someone. Shawn introduces his family to the reader. His mother is his main caretaker and his father is a writer who has won a Pulitzer Prize for a poem about Shawn.\n\nThe main story is about euthanasia. Shawn feels that his father Sydney McDaniel is trying to kill him. Sydney constantly talks about euthanasia. On an interview during a Jerry Springer-style show Sydney interviews a man who killed his son with a similar condition, who reveals that he just wanted to end his son's pain. In the end, the reader is left to wonder if Sydney follows the other man's example, or allowed Shawn to continue his life. Shawn frequently expresses that he dislikes being talked down to as if he were a baby. He stresses throughout the novel that he is just as intelligent, or more intelligent, than others around him. We are also introduced to his school life in the middle of the novel.\n\n\"Stuck in Neutral\" caused some controversy at a school in Evansville, Wisconsin, where the book was required reading. Parents felt the subject matter was too sad and violent. Trueman strongly defended his book and school officials in Wisconsin eventually agreed. Stuck in Neutral remains required reading in Special Education classrooms.\n\nIn 2013 Allison Cameron Gray and Matt Corpenning adapted the novel into the play Stuck in Neutral. The show ran from May 10, 2013 - June 10, 2013 at the Secret Rose Theatre in North Hollywood, CA, Directed by David P. Johnson with positive reviews. The cast included Jonathan D. Black as Shawn McDaniel, Mary Carrig as Lindy McDaniel, Tommy Cramer as Paul McDaniel, Amy Greenspan as Cindy McDaniel, Swati Kapila & Breana Tomey as Ally, Leslie Thurston as Alice Ponds, David Michael Trevino as Cyd McDaniel and John Walcutt as Earl Detruax respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "22111365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22111365", "title": "Tomás Altamirano Mantovani", "text": "Tomás Altamirano Mantovani\n\nTomás Altamirano Mantovani (c. 1960 – February 28, 2009) was a Panamanian politician and National Assembly deputy.\n\nHe was considered a prominent member of Panama's ruling political party, the Democratic Revolutionary Party.\n\nAltamirano was the son of former Panamanian Vice President Tomas Altamirano Duque. He served as the head of the National Assembly of Panama's Canal Affairs Commission.\n\nTomás Altamirano was killed on February 28, 2009, when a vehicle in which he was a passenger overturned on a Panamanian highway. He was 49 years old. Altamirano's bodyguard and another passenger were hospitalized in the accident.\n\nPanamanian President Martin Torrijos, and Foreign Minister Samuel Lewis Navarro were flown to the scene of the accident by helicopter. Torrijos was described as \"visibly upset.\"\n"}
{"id": "19327636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19327636", "title": "Toshiaki Nishioka", "text": "Toshiaki Nishioka\n\nNishioka was born in Kakogawa, Hyōgo, Japan, in July 1976, and has one younger sister. He started boxing at age ten when he was in the fifth grade of elementary school on the recommendation of his father who runs a tavern. He compiled an amateur record of 10–2. Since before his professional debut, Nishioka had served as a sparring partner of the reigning WBC bantamweight champion Yasuei Yakushiji.\n\nNicknamed \"Speed King\", Nishioka won his professional debut by a first-round knockout in Himeji, Hyōgo, on December 11, 1994. But he was knocked out in the fourth round of the next fight at the Korakuen Hall, and was carried out on a stretcher. Nishioka won the annual Japanese boxing series, West Japan Rookie King Tournament in the super bantamweight division at the Osaka Prefectural Gymnasium in September 1995. Winning over the Central Japan rookie king in the next fight at the Nagoya Civic Assembly Hall, he fought against the rookie king of the Western part of Japan in Fukuoka in December of the same year. Though Nishioka was convinced of his victory, the judges were in favor of his opponent.\n\nDuring his early career, Nishioka was expected to be Joichiro Tatsuyoshi's successor, and served as his sparring partner for two years since 1996. Nishioka went down a weight division to capture the Japanese bantamweight title at the Osaka Municipal Central Gymnasium on December 29, 1998, the last day when Tatsuyoshi was a world champion. Although Nishioka was knocked down once when away from the clinch in the first round, he twice floored his opponent while wearing a confident and defiant smile in the second round to be crowned, and defended the title twice before returning it.\n\nIn June 2000, Nishioka challenged the WBC bantamweight champion Veeraphol Nakonluang-Promotion in Takasago, Hyōgo, and lost via a unanimous decision. He had belonged to the JM Kakogawa Gym until that fight, and has been managed by the Teiken Boxing Gym in Tokyo under Akihiko Honda's supervision and Yūichi Kasai's guidance since September 2000.\n\nThe second world title shot was watched by 12,000 spectators at the Yokohama Arena in September 2001, and was a very close fight in which the scores were 115–113 for Nishioka, 116–113 for Veeraphol, and 114–114 even. Nishioka suffered an Achilles tendon rupture twice during that year. In December 2002, he returned to the ring for the first time in fifteen months to gain a first-round knockout victory at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada. However his style was totally different from the previous one. He challenged Veeraphol for the third time at the Ryōgoku Kokugikan in October 2003, but the result was a draw by a hometown decision. In his fourth world title shot against Veeraphol in March 2004, he lost via a unanimous decision by a wide margin of points at the Saitama Super Arena.\n\nAfter that defeat in 2004, Nishioka received a greeting card, with the Japanese message written by painter Atsumu Yamamoto; the phrase can be interpreted as: \"No way to live other than this way\", which encouraged him. While Honda advised him to retire, and set subsequent matches to convince him, Nishioka, who had remained aloof and proud as a boxer and had not trained with gym mates, decided to run with younger fellow boxers to strengthen his mind. He also attended Marco Antonio Barrera's training camp on the West Coast of the United States.\n\nNishioka got married in January 2005, and they have a daughter born in 2006. Nishioka went back to the super bantamweight division, and continued fighting mainly in Japan, besides a second-round technical knockout victory at the Palais des Sports in Marseille, France, in April 2005, and a fourth-round knockout victory (with a left-hand punch to the body) at The Joint in Las Vegas, Nevada, in November 2006. Nishioka noticed that the former motion before the Achilles tendon injury came back in the pivot of his ankle from around the fight in November 2006. His trainer Kasai also felt that Nishioka's foot recovered to its original condition, and his thinking and fighting style progressed significantly from around the fight in December 2007 or in April 2008.\n\nAfter the fight in December 2007, Nishioka stayed at his wife's parents' home in Amagasaki, Hyōgo. With the consent of his wife and her father, he decided to live separate from his wife and daughter to focus on boxing alone. When he returned to Tokyo and told Honda about it, he was told that the possibility that his fifth world title was determined to be less than ten percent and that he should bring her back immediately. The discomfort in his foot completely disappeared in the beginning of 2008. From that year, he is registered as a resident in Amagasaki where his own house has been completed in 2012. Usually, Nishioka trains while living a solo life in Tokyo, and his wife and daughter live in Amagasaki. After each of Nishioka's fights, he spends time together with his family in Amagasaki. Nishioka later recalled that transfer to the Teiken Boxing Gym and marriage have been his major turning points.\n\nNishioka captured the WBC super bantamweight interim title against Thai's Napapol Kiatisakchokchai at the Pacifico Yokohama on September 15, 2008. Just after the fight, Veeraphol whom he fought four times, and who served as Napapol's special coach, climbed into the ring to congratulate Nishioka. Nishioka inherited the fullversion of the WBC super bantamweight title on December 18 of that year, when its previous holder, Israel Vázquez, was stripped for medical reasons. He defended that title by knocking out Mexico's Genaro García in the final round, again at the Pacifico Yokohama on January 3, 2009.\n\nOn May 23, 2009, Nishioka successfully defended his title against Jhonny González in front of 12,000 spectators mostly cheering for González at the Monterrey Arena in Mexico which had an outbreak of the H1N1 influenza. Nishioka recovered from a knockdown on the first round and went to knock out González in the third round. Nishioka's left blows including his left crosses have often been called \"Monster Left\" from those days. He succeeded in the third defense via a third-round technical knockout (TKO) against Ivan Hernández at the Yoyogi National Gymnasium on October 10 of the same year. Nishioka was presented with the 2009 WBC Knockout of the Year. He defeated Filipino Balweg Bangoyan via a fifth-round technical knockout at the Nippon Budokan on April 30, 2010 to have four consecutive title defenses all by knockout. The effects of trunk strengthening from the late 2009 have appeared, his balance has improved markedly.\n\nOn October 24 of the same year, Nishioka fought a mandatory bout against Rendall Munroe at the Ryōgoku Kokugikan, and defeated him by a convincing unanimous decision to extend his defending streak to five matches. Nishioka strongly desired a unification match with the other organizations' champion especially after that. When Nishioka was named Japan's Fighter of the Year in 2010, he received a video message from Fernando Montiel demanding a fight at the awards ceremony in January 2011. Nishioka said he was willing to fight anytime soon afterward and his camp intended to arrange a match, but the contract was not finalized as Montiel lost to Nonito Donaire in February. On April 8, 2011, he knocked out Argentina's Mauricio Javier Muñoz in the ninth round in his sixth defense which was moved from the Ryōgoku Kokugikan in Tokyo to the World Memorial Hall in Kobe due to the Tōhoku earthquake.\n\nIn his seventh defense on October 1, 2011, Nishioka fought against Rafael Márquez, who had been marked as one of his targets from around October 2003, at the MGM Grand Marquee Ballroom in Las Vegas. Márquez's long, well-extended jabs were effective in the early rounds. At the end of four rounds, all three judges scored it identically at 39–37 in favor of Márquez. Nishioka fully concentrated every second from the beginning of the fight. He landed well-timed left and right blows while circling right to nullify Márquez's right cross, and although not in principle for a southpaw, often circling left to negate Márquez's left hook and to throw his quicker and sharper angled left, to win the bout by a unanimous decision. Although Márquez did not admit his defeat and demanded a rematch, there was no disgust nor booing among the spectators.\n\nIn March 2012, Nishioka competed with Yuriorkis Gamboa for \"The Ring\" pound for pound Top 10, and barely missed it. The WBC granted Nishioka the Emeritus Champion status on March 15, 2012.\n\nNishioka lost to Nonito Donaire by technical knockout in 1:54 in the ninth round at the Home Depot Center in Carson, California on October 13, 2012. He had been ranked the number one super bantamweight in the world by \"The Ring\", but was dropped to number three after the fight.\n\nAbout a month following his bout with Donaire, Nishioka announced his retirement from boxing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1072959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1072959", "title": "Viking lander biological experiments", "text": "Viking lander biological experiments\n\nThe two Viking landers each carried four types of biological experiments to the surface of Mars in 1976. These were the first Mars landers to carry out experiments to look for biosignatures of microbial life on Mars. The landers used a robotic arm to put soil samples into sealed test containers on the craft. The two landers were identical, so the same tests were carried out at two places on Mars' surface, Viking 1 near the equator and Viking 2 further north.\n\nFour experiments are presented here in the order in which they were carried out by the two Viking landers. The biology team leader for the Viking program was Harold P. Klein (NASA Ames).\n\nA gas chromatograph — mass spectrometer (GCMS) is a device that separates vapor components chemically via a gas chromatograph and then feeds the result into a mass spectrometer, which measures the molecular weight of each chemical. As a result, it can separate, identify, and quantify a large number of different chemicals. The GCMS (PI: Klaus Biemann, MIT) was used to analyze the components of untreated Martian soil, and particularly those components that are released as the soil is heated to different temperatures. It could measure molecules present at a level of a few parts per billion.\n\nThe GCMS measured no significant amount of organic molecules in the Martian soil. In fact, Martian soils were found to contain less carbon than lifeless lunar soils returned by the Apollo program. This result was difficult to explain if Martian bacterial metabolism was responsible for the positive results seen by the Labeled Release experiment (see below). A 2011 astrobiology textbook notes that this was the decisive factor due to which \"For most of the Viking scientists, the final conclusion was that the \"Viking\" missions failed to detect life in the Martian soil.\"\n\nExperiments conducted in 2008 by the Phoenix lander discovered the presence of perchlorate in Martian soil. The 2011 astrobiology textbook discusses the importance of this finding with respect to the results obtained by \"Viking\" as \"while perchlorate is too poor an oxidizer to reproduce the LR results (under the conditions of that experiment perchlorate does not oxidize organics), it does oxidize, and thus destroy, organics at the higher temperatures used in the Viking GCMS experiment. NASA astrobiologist Chris McKay has estimated, in fact, that if Phoenix-like levels of perchlorates were present in the Viking samples, the organic content of the Martian soil could have been as high as 0.1% and still would have produced the (false) negative result that the GCMS returned. Thus, while conventional wisdom regarding the \"Viking\" biology experiments still points to \"no evidence of life\", recent years have seen at least a small shift toward \"inconclusive evidence\".\"\n\nAccording to a 2010 NASA press release: \"The only organic chemicals identified when the Viking landers heated samples of Martian soil were chloromethane and dichloromethane -- chlorine compounds interpreted at the time as likely contaminants from cleaning fluids.\" According to a paper authored by a team led by Rafael Navarro-González of the National Autonomous University of Mexico, \"those chemicals are exactly what [their] new study found when a little perchlorate -- the surprise finding from Phoenix -- was added to desert soil from Chile containing organics and analyzed in the manner of the Viking tests.\" However, the 2010 NASA press release also noted that: \"One reason the chlorinated organics found by Viking were interpreted as contaminants from Earth was that the ratio of two isotopes of chlorine in them matched the three-to-one ratio for those isotopes on Earth. The ratio for them on Mars has not been clearly determined yet. If it is found to be much different than Earth's, that would support the 1970s interpretation.\" Biemann has written a commentary critical of the Navarro-González and McKay paper, to which the latter have replied; the exchange was published in December 2011.\n\nThe gas exchange (GEX) experiment (PI: Vance Oyama, NASA Ames) looked for gases given off by an incubated soil sample by first replacing the Martian atmosphere with the inert gas helium. It applied a liquid complex of organic and inorganic nutrients and supplements to a soil sample, first with just nutrients added, then with water added too. Periodically, the instrument sampled the atmosphere of the incubation chamber and used a gas chromatograph to measure the concentrations of several gases, including oxygen, CO, nitrogen, hydrogen, and methane. The scientists hypothesized that metabolizing organisms would either consume or release at least one of the gases being measured. The result was negative.\n\nThe labeled release (LR) experiment (PI: Gilbert Levin, Biospherics Inc.) gave the most promise for exobiologists. In the LR experiment, a sample of Martian soil was inoculated with a drop of very dilute aqueous nutrient solution. The nutrients (7 molecules that were Miller-Urey products) were tagged with radioactive C. The air above the soil was monitored for the evolution of radioactive CO gas as evidence that microorganisms in the soil had metabolized one or more of the nutrients. Such a result was to be followed with the control part of the experiment as described for the PR below. The result was quite a surprise, considering the negative results of the first two tests, with a steady stream of radioactive gases being given off by the soil immediately following the first injection. The experiment was done by both Viking probes, the first using a sample from the surface exposed to sunlight and the second probe taking the sample from underneath a rock; both initial injections came back positive. Subsequent injections a week later did not, however, elicit the same reaction, and according to a 1976 paper by Levin and Patricia Ann Straat the results were inconclusive. In 1997, Levin, Straat and Barry DiGregorio co-authored a book on the issue, titled \"Mars: The Living Planet\".\n\nA CNN article from 2000 noted that \"Though most of his peers concluded otherwise, Levin still holds that the robot tests he coordinated on the 1976 Viking lander indicated the presence of living organisms on Mars.\" A 2006 astrobiology textbook noted that \"With unsterilized Terrestrial samples, though, the addition of more nutrients after the initial incubation would then produce still more radioactive gas as the dormant bacteria sprang into action to consume the new dose of food. This was not true of the Martian soil; on Mars, the second and third nutrient injections did not produce any further release of labeled gas.\" The 2011 edition of the same textbook noted that \"Albet Yen of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory has shown that, under extremely cold and dry conditions and in a carbon dioxide atmosphere, ultraviolet light (remember: Mars lacks an ozone layer, so the surface is bathed in ultraviolet) can cause carbon dioxide to react with soils to produce various oxidizers, including highly reactive superoxides (salts containing O) When mixed with small organic molecules, superoxidizers readily oxidize them to carbon dioxide, which may account for the LR result. Superoxide chemistry can also account for the puzzling results seen when more nutrients were added to the soil in the LR experiment; because life multiplies, the amount of gas should have increased when a second or third batch of nutrients was added, but if the effect was due to a chemical being consumed in the first reaction, no new gas would be expected. Lastly, many superoxides are relatively unstable and are destroyed at elevated temperatures, also accounting for the \"sterilization\" seen in the LR experiment.\"\n\nIn a 2002 paper published by Joseph Miller, he speculates that recorded delays in the system's chemical reactions point to biological activity similar to the circadian rhythm previously observed in terrestrial cyanobacteria.\n\nOn 12 April 2012, an international team including Levin and Straat published a peer reviewed paper suggesting the detection of \"extant microbial life on Mars\", based on mathematical speculation through cluster analysis of the Labeled Release experiments of the 1976 Viking Mission.\n\nThe pyrolytic release (PR) experiment (PI: Norman Horowitz, Caltech) consisted of the use of light, water, and a carbon-containing atmosphere of carbon monoxide (CO) and carbon dioxide (CO), simulating that on Mars. The carbon-bearing gases were made with carbon-14 (C), a heavy, radioactive isotope of carbon. If there were photosynthetic organisms present, it was believed that they would incorporate some of the carbon as biomass through the process of carbon fixation, just as plants and cyanobacteria on earth do. After several days of incubation, the experiment removed the gases, baked the remaining soil at 650 °C (1200 °F), and collected the products in a device which counted radioactivity. If any of the C had been converted to biomass, it would be vaporized during heating and the radioactivity counter would detect it as evidence for life. Should a positive response be obtained, a duplicate sample of the same soil would be heated to \"sterilize\" it. It would then be tested as a control and should it still show activity similar to the first response, that was evidence that the activity was chemical in nature. However, a nil, or greatly diminished response, was evidence for biology. This same control was to be used for any of the three life detection experiments that showed a positive initial result.\n\nOrganic compounds seem to be common, for example, on asteroids, meteorites, comets and the icy bodies orbiting the Sun, so detecting no trace of any organic compound on the surface of Mars came as a surprise. The GC-MS was definitely working, because the controls were effective and it was able to detect traces of the cleaning solvents that had been used to sterilize it prior to launch. At the time, the total absence of organic material on the surface made the results of the biology experiments moot, since metabolism involving organic compounds were what those experiments were designed to detect. However, the general scientific community surmise that the Viking's biological tests remain inconclusive. Most researchers surmise that the results of the Viking biology experiments can be explained by purely chemical processes that do not require the presence of life, and the GC-MS results rule out life.\n\nDespite the positive result from the Labeled Release experiment, a general assessment is that the results seen in the four experiments are best explained by oxidative chemical reactions with the Martian soil. One of the current conclusions is that the Martian soil, being continuously exposed to UV light from the Sun (Mars has no protective ozone layer), has built up a thin layer of a very strong oxidant. A sufficiently strong oxidizing molecule would react with the added water to produce oxygen and hydrogen, and with the nutrients to produce carbon dioxide (CO).\n\nOn August 2008, the Phoenix lander detected perchlorate, a strong oxidizer when heated above 200 °C. This was initially thought to be the cause of a false positive LR result. However, results of experiments published in December 2010 propose that organic compounds \"could have been present\" in the soil analyzed by both Viking 1 and 2, since NASA's Phoenix lander in 2008 detected perchlorate, which can break down organic compounds. The study's authors found that perchlorate can destroy organics when heated and produce chloromethane and dichloromethane as byproduct, the identical chlorine compounds discovered by both Viking landers when they performed the same tests on Mars. Because perchlorate would have broken down any Martian organics, the question of whether or not Viking found organic compounds is still wide open, as alternative chemical and biological interpretations are possible.\n\nIn 2013, astrobiologist Richard Quinn at the Ames Center conducted experiments in which perchlorates irradiated with gamma rays seemed to reproduce the findings of the labeled-release experiment. He concluded that neither hydrogen peroxide nor superoxide is required to explain the results of the Viking biology experiments.\n\nBefore the discovery of the oxidizer perchlorate on Mars in 2008, some theories remained opposed to the general scientific conclusion. An investigator suggested that the biological explanation of the lack of detected organics by GC-MS could be that the oxidizing inventory of the HO-HO solvent well exceeded the reducing power of the organic compounds of the organisms.\n\nIt has also been argued that the Labeled Release (LR) experiment detected so few metabolising organisms in the Martian soil, that it would have been impossible for the gas chromatograph to detect them. This view has been put forward by the designer of the LR experiment, Gilbert Levin, who believes the positive LR results are diagnostic for life on Mars. He and others have conducted ongoing experiments attempting to reproduce the Viking data, either with biological or non-biological materials on Earth. While no experiment has ever precisely duplicated the Mars LR test and control results, experiments with hydrogen peroxide-saturated titanium dioxide have produced similar results.\n\nWhile the majority of astrobiologists still conclude that the Viking biological experiments were inconclusive or negative, Gilbert Levin is not alone in believing otherwise. The current claim for life on Mars is grounded on old evidence reinterpreted in the light of recent developments. On 2006, scientist Rafael Navarro demonstrated that the Viking biological experiments likely lacked sensitivity to detect trace amounts of organic compounds. In a paper published in December 2010, the scientists suggest that if organics were present, they would not have been detected because when the soil is heated to check for organics, perchlorate destroys them rapidly producing chloromethane and dichloromethane, which is what the Viking landers found. This team also notes that this is not a proof of life but it could make a difference in how scientists look for organic biosignatures in the future. Results from the current Mars Science Laboratory mission and the under-development ExoMars program, may help settle this controversy.\n\nOn 2006, went as far as proposing the creation of a new nomenclatural rank that classified some Viking results as 'metabolic' and therefore representative of a new form of life. The taxonomy proposed by Crocco has not been accepted by the scientific community, and the validity of Crocco's interpretation hinged entirely on the absence of an oxidative agent in the Martian soil.\n\nJames Lovelock argued that the Viking mission would have done better to examine the Martian atmosphere than look at the soil. He theorised that all life tends to expel waste gases into the atmosphere, and as such it would be possible to theorise the existence of life on a planet by detecting an atmosphere that was not in chemical equilibrium. He concluded that there was enough information about Mars' atmosphere at that time to discount the possibility of life there. Since then, methane has been discovered in Mars' atmosphere at 10ppb, thus reopening this debate. Although in 2013 the Curiosity rover failed to detect methane at its location in levels exceeding 1.3ppb. later in 2013 and in 2014, measurements by Curiosity did detect methane, suggesting a time-variable source. The planned ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter, launched on March 2016, will implement this approach and will focus on detection, characterization of spatial and temporal variation, and localization of sources for a broad suite of atmospheric trace gases on Mars and help determine if their formation is of biological or geological origin. The Mars Orbiter Mission is also attempting —since late 2014— to detect and map methane on Mars' atmosphere. A press commentary argued that, if there was life at the Viking lander sites, it may have been killed by the exhaust from the landing rockets. That is not a problem for missions which land via an airbag-protected capsule, slowed by parachutes and retrorockets, and dropped from a height that allows rocket exhaust to avoid the surface. Mars Pathfinder's \"Sojourner\" rover and the Mars Exploration Rovers each used this landing technique successfully. The Phoenix Scout lander descended to the surface with retro-rockets, however, their fuel was hydrazine, and the end products of the plume (water, nitrogen, and ammonia) were not found to have affected the soils at the landing site.\n\nThe question of life on Mars will probably not be resolved entirely until future missions to Mars either conclusively demonstrate the presence of life on the planet, identify the chemical(s) responsible for the Viking results, or both. The Mars Science Laboratory mission landed the \"Curiosity\" rover on August 6, 2012, and its goals include investigation of the Martian climate, geology, and whether Mars could have ever supported life, including investigation of the role of water and planetary habitability. Astrobiology research on Mars will continue with the ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter in 2016, ExoMars rover on 2018, and the Mars 2020 rover in 2020.\n\nIn 2008, the Thermal and Evolved Gas Analyzer was operated at Mars, which could chemically analyze 8 samples.\n\nThe Urey instrument was a funded study for sensitive organic compound detector, but has not been sent to Mars but was considered for ExoMars program of the 2000s\n\nThe Biological Oxidant and Life Detection (BOLD) is a proposed Mars mission that would follow up the \"Viking\" soil tests by using several small impact landers. Another proposal is the Phoenix lander-based Icebreaker Life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34790424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34790424", "title": "Viveza criolla", "text": "Viveza criolla\n\nViveza criolla is a Spanish language phrase literally meaning \"creole' cleverness\" and may be translated as \"creoles' cunning\", describing a way of life in Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Colombia and Venezuela, among other Latin American countries. It is a philosophy of progress along the line of least resistance and ignoring rules, a lack of sense of responsibility and consideration for others, and it extends to all social groups and throughout the whole country, although it predominates in Buenos Aires. Viveza criolla has been called \"the principal cause of a moral, cultural, economic, social and political crisis\". It is a similar concept to jeitinho brasileiro in Brazil.\n\nViveza criolla includes:\n\n\n"}
