{"id": "38648299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38648299", "title": "1908 in philosophy", "text": "1908 in philosophy\n\n1908 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3434004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3434004", "title": "Abdolhossein Zarrinkoob", "text": "Abdolhossein Zarrinkoob\n\nAbdolhossein Zarrinkoub (Luri/Persian: , also Romanized as \"Zarrinkoob\", \"Zarrinkub\") (March 17, 1923 – September 15, 1999) was a scholar of Iranian literature, history of literature, Persian culture and history.\n\nHe was born on March 19, 1923, in Borujerd, Iran, received his PhD from Tehran University in 1955 under the supervision of Badiozzaman Forouzanfar, and held faculty positions at universities such as Oxford University, Sorbonne, and Princeton University..\n\nSome of his works in English are:\n\n\nZarrinkoob wrote comparative literature and Persian literary criticism in his book \"Naqda Adabi\" (, \"Literary Criticism\").\n\nZarrinkoub also researched the Persian poet Molana Jalaleddin Balkhi (Rumi) and his works. Zarrinkoub's \"Serr-e Ney\" (, \"Secret of the Reed\") and \"Bahr dar Koozeh\" (, \"Sea in a Jug\") are critical and comparative analysis of Rumi's Masnavi. \"Pelleh-Pelleh ta Mulaqat-e Khuda\" (, \"Step by Step until Visiting God\") is also a work he carried out on the same line.\n\nZarrinkoub's research works on Hafez and Persian mysticism resulted in several books: \"\"Az Kooche-ye Rendan\" () and \"Arzeshe Miras-e Soofieh\" () are a few examples.\n\nZarrinkoub wrote \"Two Centuries of Silence\"\" () on Islamic history and \"Rouzegaran\", () (The Ages) (Iran's history from the beginning to the fall of the Pahlavi), which covers the 3, 000-year history of Iran, since the Aryans migrated to the Iranian plateau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1672237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1672237", "title": "Abraham Harkavy", "text": "Abraham Harkavy\n\nAvraam/Albert Yakovlevich Harkavy (), or Avraham Eliyahu ben Yaakov Harkavy (in Hebrew) (17 October 1835 – 15 March 1919) was a Jewish Russian historian and orientalist.\n\nHarkavy was born in 1835 in Navahrudak, Minsk Governorate (in present-day Belarus). He studied initially in the Volozhin yeshiva and graduated from the Teacher's Institute in Vilna. In 1863, he enrolled at the University of St Petersburg, where he studied Oriental Languages and graduated with the degree of master of history in 1868. He continued his studies in Berlin and Paris, receiving a doctorate in history in 1872.\n\nHarkavy become involved in Jewish communal life in Russia, and was extremely active in various capacities. From 1864 Harkavy was secretary of the Society for the Promotion of Culture Among the Jews of Russia, and from 1873 he was one of the directors of the Jewish community of St. Petersburg.\n\nIn 1876 he was appointed head of the Oriental Division in the Imperial Public Library, an astonishing achievement for a Jew under Czarist society's anti-Semitic policies. He remained in this position for the rest of his life. He died in Petrograd.\n\nHarkavy was a prolific author, both as an individual and in collaboration with other Russian-Jewish scholars. He wrote in Russian, German, and most notably in Hebrew, which had only recently been revived as a language of common discourse. Among his theories, he speculated that certain groups of Eastern European Jews, such as the Krymchaks, Karaims and even many Ashkenazim, might be descended from the Khazars. This theory, largely debunked by modern genetic testing, inspired Arthur Koestler's \"The Thirteenth Tribe\", which took Harkavy's hypothesis to an extreme. In the course of his Khazar research Harkavy refuted many of Avraham Firkovich's theories and exposed some of his forgeries.\n\nAmong his numerous works in Russian, Hebrew, German, and French, there should be mentioned his \"Ha-Yehudim u-Sefat ha-Slawim,\" studies in the early history of the Jews of Russia, first published in Russian by the Imperial Russian Archeological Society under the title \"Ob Yazykye Yevreyev,\" etc. (St. Petersburg, 1865). Harkavy's aim here was to prove that the first Jews who settled in South Russia did not come from Germany, as was supposed by Grätz and other historians, but from Greece through the Black Sea region and the Crimea, and from the Orient by way of the Caucasus. He furthermore showed that Slavonic was the language spoken by the Jews in the Slavonic countries until the arrival of German Jews in great numbers during the Crusades. He proved that the Jewish writers in Russia and other Slavonic countries used Slavonic words and phrases in their Biblical and Talmudic commentaries. The Slavonic names among the Slavonic Jews, the Slavonic inscriptions in Hebrew characters on Polish coins, the tradition among the Russian Jews that their ancestors spoke Slavonic,and the testimony of early writers, are effectively cited by him in support of his contention.\n\nBesides this work he published:\n\nHarkavy contributed many valuable articles on the early history of the Jews in Russia to:\n\nIn 1910 the scientific world celebrated Harkavy's 75th birthday by issuing a memorial book. The contributors were the world's best known scientists in Judaica and orientology. Attached to the book was a list of 399 works by Harkavy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48345610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48345610", "title": "Anneke B. Mulder-Bakker", "text": "Anneke B. Mulder-Bakker\n\nAntje Beitske \"Anneke\" Mulder-Bakker (born 7 April 1940) is a historian at the University of Groningen who is a specialist in the position of women during the Middle Ages. She writes mainly in Dutch.\n\n"}
{"id": "1900337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1900337", "title": "Antonio Bonfini", "text": "Antonio Bonfini\n\nAntonio Bonfini (Latin variant: \"Antonius Bonfinius\") (1434–1503) was an Italian humanist and poet who spent the last years of his career as a court historian in Hungary with King Matthias Corvinus.\n\nBonfini was commissioned by Matthias Corvinus to produce a work chronicling the History of Hungary. The book was named \"Historia Pannonica: Sive Hungaricarum Rerum Decades IV\".\n"}
{"id": "3248244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3248244", "title": "Collar (clothing)", "text": "Collar (clothing)\n\nIn clothing, a collar is the part of a shirt, dress, coat or blouse that fastens around or frames the neck. Among clothing construction professionals, a collar is differentiated from other necklines such as revers and lapels, by being made from a separate piece of fabric, rather than a folded or cut part of the same piece of fabric used for the main body of the garment.\n\nA collar may be permanently attached to the main body of the garment (e.g. by stitching) or detachable.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary traces \"collar\" in its modern meaning to c. 1300, when collars served as neck-protecting armour.\n\nToday's shirt collars descend from the ruffle caused by the drawstring at the neck of the medieval chemise, through the Elizabethan ruff and its successors, the whisk collar and falling band. Separate collars exist alongside attached collars from the mid-16th century, usually to allow starching and other fine finishing, or to make collar-laundering easier.\n\nDuring the Edwardian period and sporadically thereafter, people wore ornamental collars as a form of jewelry.\n\nIn modern times the zero collar\nand the tee-shirt demonstrate the non-necessity of collars.\n\n\nCollars can be categorized as:\n\nCollars may also be \"stiffened\", traditionally with starch; modern wash-and-wear shirt collars may be stiffened with interfacing or may include metal or plastic collar stays. Shirt collars which are not starched are described as \"soft collars\". The shape of collars is also controlled by the shape of the neckline to which they are attached. Most collars are fitted to a jewel neck, a neckline sitting at the base of the neck all around; if the garment opens down the front, the top edges may be folded back to form lapels and a V-shaped opening, and the cut of the collar will be adjusted accordingly.\n\nNames for specific styles of collars vary with the vagaries of fashion. In the 1930s and 1940s, especially, historical styles were adapted by fashion designers; thus, the Victorian bertha collar — a cape-like collar fitted to a low scooping neckline — was adapted in the 1940s but generally attached to a V-neckline.\n\nSome specific styles of collars include:\n\nConventions on fastening the buttons on a collar differ globally. In the United States and the United Kingdom, the top button is virtually always left unbuttoned, unless one is wearing a necktie, but unbuttoning two or more buttons is seen as overly casual. By contrast, in Slavic countries, including at least Poland, and Ukraine, the top button is buttoned even in the absence of a tie.\n\nFrom the contrast between the starched white shirt collars worn by businessmen in the early 20th century and the blue chambray workshirts worn by laborers comes the use of collar colors in job designation, the \"workforce colorwheel\". Examples are \"blue-collar\", \"pink-collar\" and \"white-collar\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2412774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2412774", "title": "Commemorative plaque", "text": "Commemorative plaque\n\nA commemorative plaque, or simply plaque, or in other places referred to as a historical marker or historic plaque, is a plate of metal, ceramic, stone, wood, or other material, typically attached to a wall, stone, or other vertical surface, and bearing text or an image in relief, or both, to commemorate one or more persons, an event, a former use of the place, or some other thing. Many modern plaques and markers are used to associate the location where the plaque or marker is installed with the person, event, or item commemorated as a place worthy of visit. A monumental plaque or tablet commemorating a deceased person or persons, can be a simple form of church monument. Most modern plaques affixed in this way are commemorative of something, but this is not always the case, and there are purely religious plaques, or those signifying ownership or affiliation of some sort. A plaquette is a small plaque, but in English, unlike many European languages, the term is not typically used for outdoor plaques fixed to walls.\n\nThe Benin Empire, which flourished in present-day Nigeria between the thirteenth and nineteenth centuries, had an exceedingly rich sculptural tradition. One of the kingdom's chief sites of cultural production was the elaborate ceremonial court of the Oba (divine king) at the palace in Benin. Among the wide range of artistic forms produced at the court were rectangular brass or bronze plaques. At least a portion of these plaques, which were mainly created from the thirteenth through sixteenth centuries, commemorate significant persons and events associated with the Oba's court, including important battles during Benin's sixteenth century expansionary period.\n\nBrass or bronze memorial plaques were produced throughout medieval Europe from at least the early thirteenth through the sixteenth centuries as a form of sepulchral memorial generally inset into the walls of churches or surfaces of tombs. Surviving in great numbers, they were manufactured from sheet brass or latten, very occasionally coloured with enamels, and tend to depict highly conventional figures with brief inscriptions.\n\nHistorical markers are put on display by the owners of sites listed by national agencies concerned with historic preservation such as the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the National Register of Historic Places (in the United States), the National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty (in the United Kingdom), An Taisce (in Ireland), National Historical Commission of the Philippines (in the Philippines), and the National Trusts of other countries.\n\nOther historical markers are created by local municipalities, non-profit organizations, companies, or individuals. In addition to geographically defined regions, individual organizations, such as E Clampus Vitus or the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, can choose to maintain a national set of historical markers that fit a certain theme.\nThe Royal Society of Arts established the first scheme in the world for historical commemoration on plaques in 1866.\n\nThe scheme was established under the influence of the British politician William Ewart and the civil servant Henry Cole. The first plaque was unveiled in 1867 to commemorate Lord Byron at his birthplace, 24 Holles Street, Cavendish Square. The earliest historical marker to survive, commemorates Napoleon III in King Street, St James's, and was also put up in 1867.\n\nThe original plaque colour was blue, but this was changed by the manufacturer Minton, Hollins & Co to chocolate brown to save money. In 1901, the scheme was first taken over by the local government authority - the London County Council.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistorical markers (Filipino: \"panandang pangkasaysayan\") are cast-iron plaques installed all over the Philippines that commemorate people, places, personalities, structures, and events. They are installed by the National Historical Commission of the Philippines. This practice started in 1933, with NHCP's predecessor, the Philippine Historical Research and Markers Committee, which initially only marked antiquities in Manila. The initial markers were placed in 1934.\n\nMarkers have their texts primarily in Filipino, while there are also markers in the English language, especially for markers that were installed during the American occupation. Markers in regional languages such as Cebuano, Ilocano, and Kapampangan, are also available and issued by the NHCP. Markers are found all over the country, and there have been markers installed outside the country. The plaques themselves are permanent signs installed in publicly visible locations on buildings, monuments, or in special locations. There are more than 1,500 markers to date. Most markers are located within Luzon, especially in Metro Manila, which has prompted the NHCP to install more markers in Visayas and Mindanao, for their greater inclusion in the national historical narrative.\n\nIssues and controversies have also been the concern of several individual markers, from the commemoration of the late dictator Ferdinand Marcos to the reaction of the Japanese embassy to the comfort women statue and marker. There have also been some markers replaced by new ones because of rectified information, theft, or loss due to war or disasters. Many American-era markers have been destroyed or were lost as casualties of World War II.\n\nLocal municipalities and cities can also install markers of figures and events of local significance. Though they may have the permission of the NHCP, these markers are barred from using the seal of the Republic of the Philippines.\n\nBlue plaques are the principal type of historical markers found throughout England and are the closest thing there is to a historical marker system in that country. An example is the blue plaque scheme run by English Heritage in London, although these were originally erected in a variety of shapes and colors. The National Trust (which is a non-profit charity organization unlike English Heritage and English Heritage properties) has its own similar markers as well.\n\nHowever, not all historical markers in the United Kingdom are blue, and many are not ceramic. There are commemorative plaque schemes in Bath, Edinburgh, Brighton, Liverpool, Loughton, and elsewhere—some of which differ from the familiar blue plaque. A scheme in Manchester uses color-coded plaques to commemorate figures, with each of the colors corresponding to the person's occupation. The Dead Comics' Society installs blue plaques to commemorate the former residences of well-known comedians, including those of Sid James and John Le Mesurier. In 2003, the London Borough of Southwark started a plaque scheme which included living people in the awards. Even in London, the Westminster City Council runs a green plaque scheme which is run alongside that of the blue plaque scheme administered by English Heritage. Other schemes are run by civic societies, district or town councils, or local history groups, and often operate with different criteria. In 2010, British tabloid \"The Sun\" placed a red coloured plaque outside the Snappy Snaps store in Hampstead, North London where singer George Michael crashed in the early hours of Sunday 4 July 2010. The newspaper stated it planned to put similar plaques in sites around the UK to mark events that had proved popular in the UK Tabloid Press.\n\nIn England, the London blue plaques scheme, which is administered by English Heritage, has been running for over 140 years and is thought to be the oldest of its kind in the world. Plaques are attached to buildings to commemorate their association with important occupants or events.\n\nA range of other commemorative plaque schemes, which are typically run by local councils and charitable bodies, exists throughout the United Kingdom. These tend to use their own criteria for determining the eligibility to put up a plaque. A list of schemes currently operating in England is available on the English Heritage website.\nAfter the First World War, the families of British and British Empire (now Commonwealth) service men and women killed during the conflict were presented with bronze Memorial Plaques. The plaques, of about in diameter, were designed by the eminent sculptor and medallist, Edward Carter Preston.\n\nSee also:\n\nIn the United States, various state governments have commemorative plaque schemes usually using the name historical markers. The National Trust for Historic Preservation or the U.S. Government, through the National Register of Historic Places, can bestow historical status.\n\nState programmes, such as the California Register of Historical Resources, allow designated sites to place their own markers.\n\nThe criteria and circumstances through which a party administers the distribution of historical markers varies. For example, the \"Preservation Worcester\" program in Worcester, Massachusetts, allows a person to register their house or other structure of least fifty years of age if the building is well preserved, with retention of its original character and importance to the architectural, cultural or historical nature of the local neighborhood. One then pays a fee ($185 to $225) to receive the historical marker itself.\nIn the same state, the Boston neighborhood of Charlestown, Massachusetts has its own local association to administer historical markers. Other historical markers in and around Boston are administered by agencies such as The Bostonian Society or are associated with sites such as those along the Freedom Trail, the Black Heritage Trail, and the Emerald Necklace.\n\nOther examples of mostly locally generated historical markers in the United States include the plaque outside the Alaska Governor's Mansion made by the Alaska Centennial Commission's historical markers program, the historical markers of State Historic Marker Council in Florida, the markers placed by various agencies in Georgia (of which one source mentions 3,292 different historical markers), in Indiana, where it is illegal to create a historical marker in the \"state format\" without first getting official approval from that state's historical bureau, historical markers in Kansas erected by the Kansas Historical Society and the Kansas Department of Transportation, the Roadside Historic Marker Program in Maryland administered by the Maryland Historical Trust, the State Historic Marker Program of New York (begun in 1926 to commemorate the Sequicentennial of the American Revolution), the historic markers placed as recently as 2008 in Sussex County, New Jersey, the New Mexico historical markers printed in white letters on a brown background by the New Mexico Department of Transportation, the historical markers of North Carolina (the Historical Publications Section of the state Office of Archives and History publishes a \"Guide to North Carolina Highway Historical Markers\"), the more than 1200 historical markers of Ohio (all of which are now made in a Marietta, Ohio workshop), and over 550 official state markers in Wisconsin.\n\nSee also:\n\nAs the price of scrap metal has increased plaques have been the target of metal thieves wishing to resell the metal for cash.\n\nPlaques or, more often, plaquettes, are also given as awards instead of trophies or ribbons. Such plaques usually bear text describing the reason for the award and, often, the date of the award.\n\nSome sample images of historical markers from different places:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "447862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447862", "title": "Cornelius Ryan", "text": "Cornelius Ryan\n\nCornelius Ryan (5 June 1920 – 23 November 1974) was an Irish journalist and author mainly known for his writings on popular military history, especially his World War II books: \"The Longest Day: 6 June 1944 D-Day\" (1959), \"The Last Battle\" (1966), and \"A Bridge Too Far\" (1974).\n\nRyan was born in Dublin and educated at Synge Street CBS, Portobello, Ireland. He was an altar boy at St Kevin's Church, Harrington Street and studied the violin at the Irish Academy of Music in Dublin. He was a boy scout in the 52nd Troop of the Catholic Boy Scouts of Ireland and travelled on their pilgrimage to Rome on the liner Lancastria in 1934. Ryan moved to London in 1940, and became a war correspondent for \"The Daily Telegraph\" in 1941.\n\nHe initially covered the air war in Europe, flew along on fourteen bombing missions with the Eighth and Ninth United States Army Air Forces (USAAF), and then joined General George S. Patton's Third Army and covered its actions until the end of the European war. He transferred to the Pacific theater in 1945, and then to Jerusalem in 1946.\n\nRyan emigrated to the United States in 1947 to work for \"TIME\", where he reported on the postwar tests of atomic weapons carried out by the United States in the Pacific. He then reported for \"TIME\" on the Israeli war in 1948. This was followed by work for other magazines, including \"Collier's Weekly\" and \"Reader's Digest\".\n\nHe married Kathryn Morgan (1925–1993), a novelist, and became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 1951.\n\nOn a trip to Normandy in 1949 Ryan became interested in telling a more complete story of Operation Overlord than had been produced to date. He began compiling information and conducting over 1000 interviews as he gathered stories from both the Allies and the Germans, as well as the French civilians.\n\nIn 1956 he began to write down his World War II notes for \"The Longest Day: 6 June 1944 D-Day\", which tells the story of the D-Day Invasion of Normandy, published three years later in 1959. It was an instant success, and Ryan helped in the writing of the screenplay for the 1962 film of the same name. Darryl F. Zanuck paid the author US$175,000 for the screen rights to the book.\n\nRyan's 1957 book \"One Minute to Ditch!\" is about the successful ocean ditching of a Pan American Boeing 377 Stratocruiser. He had written an article about the ditching for \"Collier's\" in their 21 December 1956, issue and then expanded it into the book.\n\nHis next work was \"The Last Battle\" (1966), about the Battle of Berlin. The book contains detailed accounts from all perspectives: civilian, American, British, Russian and German. It deals with the fraught military and political situation in the spring of 1945, when the forces of the western allies and the Soviet Union contended for the chance to liberate Berlin and to carve up the remains of Germany.\n\nThis work was followed by \"A Bridge Too Far\" (1974), which tells the story of Operation Market Garden, the ill-fated assault by allied airborne forces on the Netherlands culminating in the Battle of Arnhem. This work was made into a major 1977 film of the same name.\n\nRyan was awarded the French Legion of Honour, and an honorary Doctor of Literature degree from Ohio University, where the Cornelius Ryan Collection is housed (Alden Library). He was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 1970, and struggled to finish \"A Bridge Too Far\" during his illness. He died in Manhattan, while on tour promoting the book, only two months after publication.\n\nFour years after his death, Ryan's struggle with prostate cancer was detailed in \"A Private Battle,\" written by his widow, from notes he had secretly left behind for that purpose. He is buried in the Ridgebury Cemetery in northern Ridgefield, Connecticut, USA.\n\nFor many years Ryan's editor at Simon & Schuster was Peter Schwed who was assisted by Michael Korda. Ryan's literary agent was Paul Gitlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46828642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46828642", "title": "Craig Benjamin", "text": "Craig Benjamin\n\nCraig G. Benjamin is an Australian-American historian who is professor of history in the Frederik J. Meijer Honors College at Grand Valley State University, where he teaches East Asian civilization, big history, ancient Central Asian history, and world history historiography. In 2014 and 2015 he served as President of the World History Association.\n\nBenjamin grew up in Brisbane, Australia. His father was a well-known TV journalist. Benjamin dropped out of college at the age of 19, spending the next 25 years as a professional musician and jazz educator. He pursued his undergraduate education at The Australian National University in Canberra and Macquarie University in Sydney, and gained his PhD in ancient history from Macquarie University in 2003 with his dissertion \"The Yuezhi: Origin, Migration and the Conquest of Northern Bactria\".\n\nHaving emigrated to the United States after receiving his PhD, Benjamin has since become professor of history in the Frederik J. Meijer Honors College at Grand Valley State University (GVSU) in Allendale, Michigan. He teaches East Asian civilization, big history, ancient Central Asian history, and world history historiography. Benjamin is the recipient of several teaching awards at GVSU, most notably the 2009 Student Senate Award for Faculty Excellence. He received the Faculty of Distinction Award of the Omicron Delta Kappa Society in 2012 and was a nominee for the 2013 US Professor of the Year Award. In 2015 Benjamin received the Niemeyer Outstanding Faculty Award from GVSU, the highest award that university grants to its faculty members.\n\nBenjamin has presented lectures at conferences throughout the world, and he is the author of several published books, and numerous chapters and essays on the ancient history of Central Asia, Big History and world history. He has recorded lectures for the History Channel and the Discovery Channel, and has been a lecturer for the Big History Project, and on cruises sponsored by both Scientific American and the New York Times. Benjamin has recorded two courses for the Teaching Company's Great Courses series, the \"Foundations of Eastern Civilization,\" and the Big History of Civilizations, and is in the process of writing a third course, The Mongol Empire. Together with David Christian and Cynthia Brown, he is the author of the first Big History textbook \"Big History: Between Nothing and Everything\", which was published by McGraw-Hill in August 2014.\n\nBenjamin served as Treasurer and Vice President of the International Big History Association from its inception in January 2011 until July 2018. He is a consultant for the College Board and former co-Chair of the Test Development Committees of the Advanced Placement World History exam, and current Chair of SAT World History exam. In 2014 and 2015 Benjamin served as President of the World History Association.\n\nBenjamin lives in Grand Rapids, Michigan with his wife Pamela. Together they have three children living in Australia and New Zealand. In addition to his academic and musical interests Benjamin is an avid mountain hiker, and has trekked and climbed extensively in many of the great mountain ranges of the planet. He continues to play jazz, and served as President of the West Michigan Jazz Society, and also as Chair of the Easton Special Events committee which organizes the Eastown Street Fair in Grand Rapids, which draws around 10,000 people each September.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8103", "title": "Deforestation", "text": "Deforestation\n\nDeforestation, clearance, or clearing is the removal of a forest or stand of trees where the land is thereafter converted to a non-forest use. Examples of deforestation include conversion of forestland to farms, ranches, or urban use. The most concentrated deforestation occurs in tropical rainforests. About 31 percent of Earth's land surface is covered by forests.\n\nDeforestation occurs for multiple reasons: trees are cut down to be used for building or sold as fuel (sometimes in the form of charcoal or timber), while cleared land is used as pasture for livestock and plantation. The removal of trees without sufficient reforestation has resulted in habitat damage, biodiversity loss, and aridity. It has adverse impacts on biosequestration of atmospheric carbon dioxide. Deforestation has also been used in war to deprive the enemy of vital resources and cover for its forces. Modern examples of this were the use of Agent Orange by the British military in Malaya during the Malayan Emergency and the United States military in Vietnam during the Vietnam War. As of 2005, net deforestation rates have ceased to increase in countries with a per capita GDP of at least US$4,600. Deforested regions typically incur significant adverse soil erosion and frequently degrade into wasteland.\n\nDisregard of ascribed value, lax forest management, and deficient environmental laws are some of the factors that allow deforestation to occur on a large scale. In many countries, deforestation–both naturally occurring and human-induced–is an ongoing issue. Deforestation causes extinction, changes to climatic conditions, desertification, and displacement of populations as observed by current conditions and in the past through the fossil record. More than half of all plant and land animal species in the world live in tropical forests.\n\nBetween 2000 and 2012, of forests around the world were cut down. As a result of deforestation, only remain of the original of forest that formerly covered the Earth. An area the size of a football pitch is cleared from the Amazon rainforest every minute, with of rainforest cleared for animal agriculture overall.\n\nAccording to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) secretariat, the overwhelming direct cause of deforestation is agriculture. Subsistence farming is responsible for 48% of deforestation; commercial agriculture is responsible for 32%; logging is responsible for 14%, and fuel wood removals make up 5%.\n\nExperts do not agree on whether industrial logging is an important contributor to global deforestation. Some argue that poor people are more likely to clear forest because they have no alternatives, others that the poor lack the ability to pay for the materials and labour needed to clear forest. One study found that population increases due to high fertility rates were a primary driver of tropical deforestation in only 8% of cases.\n\nOther causes of contemporary deforestation may include corruption of government institutions, the inequitable distribution of wealth and power, population growth and overpopulation, and urbanization. Globalization is often viewed as another root cause of deforestation, though there are cases in which the impacts of globalization (new flows of labor, capital, commodities, and ideas) have promoted localized forest recovery.\nIn 2000 the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) found that \"the role of population dynamics in a local setting may vary from decisive to negligible\", and that deforestation can result from \"a combination of population pressure and stagnating economic, social and technological conditions\".\n\nThe degradation of forest ecosystems has also been traced to economic incentives that make forest conversion appear more profitable than forest conservation. Many important forest functions have no markets, and hence, no economic value that is readily apparent to the forests' owners or the communities that rely on forests for their well-being. From the perspective of the developing world, the benefits of forest as carbon sinks or biodiversity reserves go primarily to richer developed nations and there is insufficient compensation for these services. Developing countries feel that some countries in the developed world, such as the United States of America, cut down their forests centuries ago and benefited economically from this deforestation, and that it is hypocritical to deny developing countries the same opportunities, i.e. that the poor shouldn't have to bear the cost of preservation when the rich created the problem.\n\nSome commentators have noted a shift in the drivers of deforestation over the past 30 years. Whereas deforestation was primarily driven by subsistence activities and government-sponsored development projects like transmigration in countries like Indonesia and colonization in Latin America, India, Java, and so on, during the late 19th century and the earlier half of the 20th century, by the 1990s the majority of deforestation was caused by industrial factors, including extractive industries, large-scale cattle ranching, and extensive agriculture. Since 2001, commodity-driven deforestation, which is more likely to be permanent, has accounted for about a quarter of all forest disturbance, and this loss has been concentrated in South America and Southeast Asia.\n\nDeforestation is ongoing and is shaping climate and geography.\n\nDeforestation is a contributor to global warming, and is often cited as one of the major causes of the enhanced greenhouse effect. Tropical deforestation is responsible for approximately 20% of world greenhouse gas emissions. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change deforestation, mainly in tropical areas, could account for up to one-third of total anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions. But recent calculations suggest that carbon dioxide emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (excluding peatland emissions) contribute about 12% of total anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions with a range from 6 to 17%. Deforestation causes carbon dioxide to linger in the atmosphere. As carbon dioxide accrues, it produces a layer in the atmosphere that traps radiation from the sun. The radiation converts to heat which causes global warming, which is better known as the greenhouse effect. Plants remove carbon in the form of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere during the process of photosynthesis, but release some carbon dioxide back into the atmosphere during normal respiration. Only when actively growing can a tree or forest remove carbon, by storing it in plant tissues. Both the decay and burning of wood releases much of this stored carbon back to the atmosphere. Although an accumulation of wood is generally necessary for carbon sequestration, in some forests the network of symbiotic fungi that surround the trees' roots can store a significant amount of carbon, storing it underground even if the tree which supplied it dies and decays, or is harvested and burned. Another way carbon can be sequestered by forests is for the wood to be harvested and turned into long-lived products, with new young trees replacing them. Deforestation may also cause carbon stores held in soil to be released. Forests can be either sinks or sources depending upon environmental circumstances. Mature forests alternate between being net sinks and net sources of carbon dioxide (see carbon dioxide sink and carbon cycle).\n\nIn deforested areas, the land heats up faster and reaches a higher temperature, leading to localized upward motions that enhance the formation of clouds and ultimately produce more rainfall. However, according to the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, the models used to investigate remote responses to tropical deforestation showed a broad but mild temperature increase all through the tropical atmosphere. The model predicted <0.2 °C warming for upper air at 700 mb and 500 mb. However, the model shows no significant changes in other areas besides the Tropics. Though the model showed no significant changes to the climate in areas other than the Tropics, this may not be the case since the model has possible errors and the results are never absolutely definite. Deforestation affects wind flows,\nwater vapour flows and absorption of solar energy thus clearly influencing local and global climate. \n\nReducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD) in developing countries has emerged as a new potential to complement ongoing climate policies. The idea consists in providing financial compensations for the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from deforestation and forest degradation\".\n\nRainforests are widely believed by laymen to contribute a significant amount of the world's oxygen, although it is now accepted by scientists that rainforests contribute little net oxygen to the atmosphere and deforestation has only a minor effect on atmospheric oxygen levels. However, the incineration and burning of forest plants to clear land releases large amounts of CO, which contributes to global warming. Scientists also state that tropical deforestation releases 1.5 billion tons of carbon each year into the atmosphere.\n\nThe water cycle is also affected by deforestation. Trees extract groundwater through their roots and release it into the atmosphere. When part of a forest is removed, the trees no longer transpire this water, resulting in a much drier climate. Deforestation reduces the content of water in the soil and groundwater as well as atmospheric moisture. The dry soil leads to lower water intake for the trees to extract. Deforestation reduces soil cohesion, so that erosion, flooding and landslides ensue.\n\nShrinking forest cover lessens the landscape's capacity to intercept, retain and transpire precipitation. Instead of trapping precipitation, which then percolates to groundwater systems, deforested areas become sources of surface water runoff, which moves much faster than subsurface flows. Forests return most of the water that falls as precipitation to the atmosphere by transpiration. In contrast, when an area is deforested, almost all precipitation is lost as run-off. That quicker transport of surface water can translate into flash flooding and more localized floods than would occur with the forest cover. Deforestation also contributes to decreased evapotranspiration, which lessens atmospheric moisture which in some cases affects precipitation levels downwind from the deforested area, as water is not recycled to downwind forests, but is lost in runoff and returns directly to the oceans. According to one study, in deforested north and northwest China, the average annual precipitation decreased by one third between the 1950s and the 1980s.\nTrees, and plants in general, affect the water cycle significantly:\nAs a result, the presence or absence of trees can change the quantity of water on the surface, in the soil or groundwater, or in the atmosphere. This in turn changes erosion rates and the availability of water for either ecosystem functions or human services. Deforestation on lowland plains moves cloud formation and rainfall to higher elevations.\n\nThe forest may have little impact on flooding in the case of large rainfall events, which overwhelm the storage capacity of forest soil if the soils are at or close to saturation.\n\nTropical rainforests produce about 30% of our planet's fresh water.\n\nDeforestation disrupts normal weather patterns creating hotter and drier weather thus increasing drought, desertification, crop failures, melting of the polar ice caps, coastal flooding and displacement of major vegetation regimes.\n\nDue to surface plant litter, forests that are undisturbed have a minimal rate of erosion. The rate of erosion occurs from deforestation, because it decreases the amount of litter cover, which provides protection from surface runoff. The rate of erosion is around 2 metric tons per square kilometre. This can be an advantage in excessively leached tropical rain forest soils. Forestry operations themselves also increase erosion through the development of (forest) roads and the use of mechanized equipment.\n\nDeforestation in China's Loess Plateau many years ago has led to soil erosion; this erosion has led to valleys opening up. The increase of soil in the runoff causes the Yellow River to flood and makes it yellow colored.\n\nGreater erosion is not always a consequence of deforestation, as observed in the southwestern regions of the US. In these areas, the loss of grass due to the presence of trees and other shrubbery leads to more erosion than when trees are removed.\n\nSoils are reinforced by the presence of trees, which secure the soil by binding their roots to soil bedrock. Due to deforestation, the removal of trees causes sloped lands to be more susceptible to landslides.\n\nDeforestation on a human scale results in decline in biodiversity, and on a natural global scale is known to cause the extinction of many species. The removal or destruction of areas of forest cover has resulted in a degraded environment with reduced biodiversity. Forests support biodiversity, providing habitat for wildlife; moreover, forests foster medicinal conservation. With forest biotopes being irreplaceable source of new drugs (such as taxol), deforestation can destroy genetic variations (such as crop resistance) irretrievably.\n\nSince the tropical rainforests are the most diverse ecosystems on Earth and about 80% of the world's known biodiversity could be found in tropical rainforests, removal or destruction of significant areas of forest cover has resulted in a degraded environment with reduced biodiversity. A study in Rondônia, Brazil, has shown that deforestation also removes the microbial community which is involved in the recycling of nutrients, the production of clean water and the removal of pollutants.\n\nIt has been estimated that we are losing 137 plant, animal and insect species every single day due to rainforest deforestation, which equates to 50,000 species a year. Others state that tropical rainforest deforestation is contributing to the ongoing Holocene mass extinction. The known extinction rates from deforestation rates are very low, approximately 1 species per year from mammals and birds which extrapolates to approximately 23,000 species per year for all species. Predictions have been made that more than 40% of the animal and plant species in Southeast Asia could be wiped out in the 21st century. Such predictions were called into question by 1995 data that show that within regions of Southeast Asia much of the original forest has been converted to monospecific plantations, but that potentially endangered species are few and tree flora remains widespread and stable.\n\nScientific understanding of the process of extinction is insufficient to accurately make predictions about the impact of deforestation on biodiversity. Most predictions of forestry related biodiversity loss are based on species-area models, with an underlying assumption that as the forest declines species diversity will decline similarly. However, many such models have been proven to be wrong and loss of habitat does not necessarily lead to large scale loss of species. Species-area models are known to overpredict the number of species known to be threatened in areas where actual deforestation is ongoing, and greatly overpredict the number of threatened species that are widespread.\n\nA recent study of the Brazilian Amazon predicts that despite a lack of extinctions thus far, up to 90 percent of predicted extinctions will finally occur in the next 40 years.\n\nDamage to forests and other aspects of nature could halve living standards for the world's poor and reduce global GDP by about 7% by 2050, a report concluded at the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) meeting in Bonn in 2008. Historically, utilization of forest products, including timber and fuel wood, has played a key role in human societies, comparable to the roles of water and cultivable land. Today, developed countries continue to utilize timber for building houses, and wood pulp for paper. In developing countries almost three billion people rely on wood for heating and cooking.\n\nThe forest products industry is a large part of the economy in both developed and developing countries. Short-term economic gains made by conversion of forest to agriculture, or over-exploitation of wood products, typically leads to loss of long-term income and long-term biological productivity. West Africa, Madagascar, Southeast Asia and many other regions have experienced lower revenue because of declining timber harvests. Illegal logging causes billions of dollars of losses to national economies annually.\n\nThe new procedures to get amounts of wood are causing more harm to the economy and overpower the amount of money spent by people employed in logging. According to a study, \"in most areas studied, the various ventures that prompted deforestation rarely generated more than US$5 for every ton of carbon they released and frequently returned far less than US$1\". The price on the European market for an offset tied to a one-ton reduction in carbon is 23 euro (about US$35).\n\nRapidly growing economies also have an effect on deforestation. Most pressure will come from the world's developing countries, which have the fastest-growing populations and most rapid economic (industrial) growth. In 1995, economic growth in developing countries reached nearly 6%, compared with the 2% growth rate for developed countries. As our human population grows, new homes, communities, and expansions of cities will occur. Connecting all of the new expansions will be roads, a very important part in our daily life. Rural roads promote economic development but also facilitate deforestation. About 90% of the deforestation has occurred within 100 km of roads in most parts of the Amazon.\n\nThe European Union is one of the largest importer of products made from illegal deforestation.\n\nThe forest area change may follow a pattern suggested by the forest transition (FT) theory, whereby at early stages in its development a country is characterized by high forest cover and low deforestation rates (HFLD countries).\n\nThen deforestation rates accelerate (HFHD, high forest cover – high deforestation rate), and forest cover is reduced (LFHD, low forest cover – high deforestation rate), before the deforestation rate slows (LFLD, low forest cover – low deforestation rate), after which forest cover stabilizes and eventually starts recovering. FT is not a \"law of nature\", and the pattern is influenced by national context (for example, human population density, stage of development, structure of the economy), global economic forces, and government policies. A country may reach very low levels of forest cover before it stabilizes, or it might through good policies be able to “bridge” the forest transition.\n\nFT depicts a broad trend, and an extrapolation of historical rates therefore tends to underestimate future BAU deforestation for counties at the early stages in the transition (HFLD), while it tends to overestimate BAU deforestation for countries at the later stages (LFHD and LFLD).\n\nCountries with high forest cover can be expected to be at early stages of the FT. GDP per capita captures the stage in a country’s economic development, which is linked to the pattern of natural resource use, including forests. The choice of forest cover and GDP per capita also fits well with the two key scenarios in the FT:\n\n(i) a forest scarcity path, where forest scarcity triggers forces (for example, higher prices of forest products) that lead to forest cover stabilization; and\n\n(ii) an economic development path, where new and better off-farm employment opportunities associated with economic growth (= increasing GDP per capita) reduce profitability of frontier agriculture and slows deforestation.\n\nThe Carboniferous Rainforest Collapse was an event that occurred 300 million years ago. Climate change devastated tropical rainforests causing the extinction of many plant and animal species. The change was abrupt, specifically, at this time climate became cooler and drier, conditions that are not favourable to the growth of rainforests and much of the biodiversity within them. Rainforests were fragmented forming shrinking 'islands' further and further apart. Populations such as the sub class Lissamphibia were devastated, whereas Reptilia survived the collapse. The surviving organisms were better adapted to the drier environment left behind and served as legacies in succession after the collapse.\nRainforests once covered 14% of the earth's land surface; now they cover a mere 6% and experts estimate that the last remaining rainforests could be consumed in less than 40 years.\nSmall scale deforestation was practiced by some societies for tens of thousands of years before the beginnings of civilization. The first evidence of deforestation appears in the Mesolithic period. It was probably used to convert closed forests into more open ecosystems favourable to game animals. With the advent of agriculture, larger areas began to be deforested, and fire became the prime tool to clear land for crops. In Europe there is little solid evidence before 7000 BC. Mesolithic foragers used fire to create openings for red deer and wild boar. In Great Britain, shade-tolerant species such as oak and ash are replaced in the pollen record by hazels, brambles, grasses and nettles. Removal of the forests led to decreased transpiration, resulting in the formation of upland peat bogs. Widespread decrease in elm pollen across Europe between 8400–8300 BC and 7200–7000 BC, starting in southern Europe and gradually moving north to Great Britain, may represent land clearing by fire at the onset of Neolithic agriculture.\n\nThe Neolithic period saw extensive deforestation for farming land. Stone axes were being made from about 3000 BC not just from flint, but from a wide variety of hard rocks from across Britain and North America as well. They include the noted Langdale axe industry in the English Lake District, quarries developed at Penmaenmawr in North Wales and numerous other locations. Rough-outs were made locally near the quarries, and some were polished locally to give a fine finish. This step not only increased the mechanical strength of the axe, but also made penetration of wood easier. Flint was still used from sources such as Grimes Graves but from many other mines across Europe.\n\nEvidence of deforestation has been found in Minoan Crete; for example the environs of the Palace of Knossos were severely deforested in the Bronze Age.\n\nThroughout prehistory, humans were hunter gatherers who hunted within forests. In most areas, such as the Amazon, the tropics, Central America, and the Caribbean, only after shortages of wood and other forest products occur are policies implemented to ensure forest resources are used in a sustainable manner.\n\nThree regional studies of historic erosion and alluviation in ancient Greece found that, wherever adequate evidence exists, a major phase of erosion follows the introduction of farming in the various regions of Greece by about 500-1,000 years, ranging from the later Neolithic to the Early Bronze Age. The thousand years following the mid-first millennium BC saw serious, intermittent pulses of soil erosion in numerous places. The historic silting of ports along the southern coasts of Asia Minor (\"e.g.\" Clarus, and the examples of Ephesus, Priene and Miletus, where harbors had to be abandoned because of the silt deposited by the Meander) and in coastal Syria during the last centuries BC.\n\nEaster Island has suffered from heavy soil erosion in recent centuries, aggravated by agriculture and deforestation. Jared Diamond gives an extensive look into the collapse of the ancient Easter Islanders in his book \"Collapse\". The disappearance of the island's trees seems to coincide with a decline of its civilization around the 17th and 18th century. He attributed the collapse to deforestation and over-exploitation of all resources.\n\nThe famous silting up of the harbor for Bruges, which moved port commerce to Antwerp, also followed a period of increased settlement growth (and apparently of deforestation) in the upper river basins. In early medieval Riez in upper Provence, alluvial silt from two small rivers raised the riverbeds and widened the floodplain, which slowly buried the Roman settlement in alluvium and gradually moved new construction to higher ground; concurrently the headwater valleys above Riez were being opened to pasturage.\n\nA typical progress trap was that cities were often built in a forested area, which would provide wood for some industry (for example, construction, shipbuilding, pottery). When deforestation occurs without proper replanting, however; local wood supplies become difficult to obtain near enough to remain competitive, leading to the city's abandonment, as happened repeatedly in Ancient Asia Minor. Because of fuel needs, mining and metallurgy often led to deforestation and city abandonment.\n\nWith most of the population remaining active in (or indirectly dependent on) the agricultural sector, the main pressure in most areas remained land clearing for crop and cattle farming. Enough wild green was usually left standing (and partially used, for example, to collect firewood, timber and fruits, or to graze pigs) for wildlife to remain viable. The elite's (nobility and higher clergy) protection of their own hunting privileges and game often protected significant woodland.\n\nMajor parts in the spread (and thus more durable growth) of the population were played by monastical 'pioneering' (especially by the Benedictine and Commercial orders) and some feudal lords' recruiting farmers to settle (and become tax payers) by offering relatively good legal and fiscal conditions. Even when speculators sought to encourage towns, settlers needed an agricultural belt around or sometimes within defensive walls. When populations were quickly decreased by causes such as the Black Death or devastating warfare (for example, Genghis Khan's Mongol hordes in eastern and central Europe, Thirty Years' War in Germany), this could lead to settlements being abandoned. The land was reclaimed by nature, but the secondary forests usually lacked the original biodiversity.\n\nFrom 1100 to 1500 AD, significant deforestation took place in Western Europe as a result of the expanding human population. The large-scale building of wooden sailing ships by European (coastal) naval owners since the 15th century for exploration, colonisation, slave trade–and other trade on the high seas consumed many forest resources. Piracy also contributed to the over harvesting of forests, as in Spain. This led to a weakening of the domestic economy after Columbus' discovery of America, as the economy became dependent on colonial activities (plundering, mining, cattle, plantations, trade, etc.)\n\nIn \"Changes In the Land\" (1983), William Cronon analyzed and documented 17th-century English colonists' reports of increased seasonal flooding in New England during the period when new settlers initially cleared the forests for agriculture. They believed flooding was linked to widespread forest clearing upstream.\n\nThe massive use of charcoal on an industrial scale in Early Modern Europe was a new type of consumption of western forests; even in Stuart England, the relatively primitive production of charcoal has already reached an impressive level. Stuart England was so widely deforested that it depended on the Baltic trade for ship timbers, and looked to the untapped forests of New England to supply the need. Each of Nelson's Royal Navy war ships at Trafalgar (1805) required 6,000 mature oaks for its construction. In France, Colbert planted oak forests to supply the French navy in the future. When the oak plantations matured in the mid-19th century, the masts were no longer required because shipping had changed.\n\nNorman F. Cantor's summary of the effects of late medieval deforestation applies equally well to Early Modern Europe:\nIn the 19th century, introduction of steamboats in the United States was the cause of deforestation of banks of major rivers, such as the Mississippi River, with increased and more severe flooding one of the environmental results. The steamboat crews cut wood every day from the riverbanks to fuel the steam engines. Between St. Louis and the confluence with the Ohio River to the south, the Mississippi became more wide and shallow, and changed its channel laterally. Attempts to improve navigation by the use of snag pullers often resulted in crews' clearing large trees 100 to back from the banks. Several French colonial towns of the Illinois Country, such as Kaskaskia, Cahokia and St. Philippe, Illinois, were flooded and abandoned in the late 19th century, with a loss to the cultural record of their archeology.\n\nThe wholescale clearance of woodland to create agricultural land can be seen in many parts of the world, such as the Central forest-grasslands transition and other areas of the Great Plains of the United States. Specific parallels are seen in the 20th-century deforestation occurring in many developing nations.\n\nGlobal deforestation sharply accelerated around 1852. It has been estimated that about half of the Earth's mature tropical forests—between 7.5 million and 8 million km (2.9 million to 3 million sq mi) of the original 15 million to 16 million km (5.8 million to 6.2 million sq mi) that until 1947 covered the planet—have now been destroyed. Some scientists have predicted that unless significant measures (such as seeking out and protecting old growth forests that have not been disturbed) are taken on a worldwide basis, by 2030 there will only be 10% remaining, with another 10% in a degraded condition. 80% will have been lost, and with them hundreds of thousands of irreplaceable species. Some cartographers have attempted to illustrate the sheer scale of deforestation by country using a cartogram.\n\nEstimates vary widely as to the extent of tropical deforestation. Over a 50-year period, percentage of land cover by tropical rainforests has decreased by 50%. Where total land coverage by tropical rainforests decreased from 14% to 6%. A large contribution to this loss can be identified between 1960 and 1990, when 20% of all tropical rainforests were destroyed. At this rate, extinction of such forests is projected to occur by the mid 21st century.\n\nA 2002 analysis of satellite imagery suggested that the rate of deforestation in the humid tropics (approximately 5.8 million hectares per year) was roughly 23% lower than the most commonly quoted rates. Conversely, a newer analysis of satellite images reveals that deforestation of the Amazon rainforest is twice as fast as scientists previously estimated.\n\nSome have argued that deforestation trends may follow a Kuznets curve, which if true would nonetheless fail to eliminate the risk of irreversible loss of non-economic forest values (for example, the extinction of species).\n\nA 2005 report by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimated that although the Earth's total forest area continued to decrease at about 13 million hectares per year, the global rate of deforestation has recently been slowing. The 2016 report by the FAO reports from 2010 to 2015 there was a worldwide decrease in forest area of 3.3 million ha per year. During this five-year period, the biggest forest area loss occurred in the tropics, particularly in South America and Africa. Per capita forest area decline was also greatest in the tropics and subtropics but is occurring in every climatic domain (except in the temperate) as populations increase.\n\nOthers claim that rainforests are being destroyed at an ever-quickening pace. The London-based Rainforest Foundation notes that \"the UN figure is based on a definition of forest as being an area with as little as 10% actual tree cover, which would therefore include areas that are actually savannah-like ecosystems and badly damaged forests\". Other critics of the FAO data point out that they do not distinguish between forest types, and that they are based largely on reporting from forestry departments of individual countries, which do not take into account unofficial activities like illegal logging.\n\nDespite these uncertainties, there is agreement that destruction of rainforests remains a significant environmental problem. Up to 90% of West Africa's coastal rainforests have disappeared since 1900.\nIn South Asia, about 88% of the rainforests have been lost. Much of what remains of the world's rainforests is in the Amazon basin, where the Amazon Rainforest covers approximately 4 million square kilometres. The regions with the highest tropical deforestation rate between 2000 and 2005 were Central America—which lost 1.3% of its forests each year—and tropical Asia. In Central America, two-thirds of lowland tropical forests have been turned into pasture since 1950 and 40% of all the rainforests have been lost in the last 40 years. Brazil has lost 90–95% of its Mata Atlântica forest. \nParaguay was losing its natural semi humid forests in the country’s western regions at a rate of 15.000 hectares at a randomly studied 2-month period in 2010, Paraguay’s parliament refused in 2009 to pass a law that would have stopped cutting of natural forests altogether.\nMadagascar has lost 90% of its eastern rainforests. As of 2007, less than 50% of Haiti's forests remained. Mexico, India, the Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand, Burma, Malaysia, Bangladesh, China, Sri Lanka, Laos, Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia, Guinea, Ghana and the Ivory Coast, have lost large areas of their rainforest. Several countries, notably Brazil, have declared their deforestation a national emergency. The World Wildlife Fund's ecoregion project catalogues habitat types throughout the world, including habitat loss such as deforestation, showing for example that even in the rich forests of parts of Canada such as the Mid-Continental Canadian forests of the prairie provinces half of the forest cover has been lost or altered.\n\nRates of deforestation vary around the world.\n\nIn 2011 Conservation International listed the top 10 most endangered forests, characterized by having all lost 90% or more of their original habitat, and each harboring at least 1500 endemic plant species (species found nowhere else in the world).\n\nMain international organizations including the United Nations and the World Bank, have begun to develop programs aimed at curbing deforestation. The blanket term Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) describes these sorts of programs, which use direct monetary or other incentives to encourage developing countries to limit and/or roll back deforestation. Funding has been an issue, but at the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Conference of the Parties-15 (COP-15) in Copenhagen in December 2009, an accord was reached with a collective commitment by developed countries for new and additional resources, including forestry and investments through international institutions, that will approach USD 30 billion for the period 2010–2012. Significant work is underway on tools for use in monitoring developing country adherence to their agreed REDD targets. These tools, which rely on remote forest monitoring using satellite imagery and other data sources, include the Center for Global Development's FORMA (Forest Monitoring for Action) initiative and the Group on Earth Observations' Forest Carbon Tracking Portal. Methodological guidance for forest monitoring was also emphasized at COP-15. The environmental organization Avoided Deforestation Partners leads the campaign for development of REDD through funding from the U.S. government. In 2014, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and partners launched Open Foris – a set of open-source software tools that assist countries in gathering, producing and disseminating information on the state of forest resources. The tools support the inventory lifecycle, from needs assessment, design, planning, field data collection and management, estimation analysis, and dissemination. Remote sensing image processing tools are included, as well as tools for international reporting for Reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD) and MRV (Measurement, Reporting and Verification) and FAO's Global Forest Resource Assessments.\n\nIn evaluating implications of overall emissions reductions, countries of greatest concern are those categorized as High Forest Cover with High Rates of Deforestation (HFHD) and Low Forest Cover with High Rates of Deforestation (LFHD). Afghanistan, Benin, Botswana, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Indonesia, Liberia, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Paraguay, Philippines, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Togo, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Zimbabwe are listed as having Low Forest Cover with High Rates of Deforestation (LFHD). Brazil, Cambodia, Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea, Equatorial Guinea, Malaysia, Solomon Islands, Timor-Leste, Venezuela, Zambia are listed as High Forest Cover with High Rates of Deforestation (HFHD).\n\nIn Bolivia, deforestation in upper river basins has caused environmental problems, including soil erosion and declining water quality. An innovative project to try and remedy this situation involves landholders in upstream areas being paid by downstream water users to conserve forests. The landholders receive US$20 to conserve the trees, avoid polluting livestock practices, and enhance the biodiversity and forest carbon on their land. They also receive US$30, which purchases a beehive, to compensate for conservation for two hectares of water-sustaining forest for five years. Honey revenue per hectare of forest is US$5 per year, so within five years, the landholder has sold US$50 of honey. The project is being conducted by Fundación Natura Bolivia and Rare Conservation, with support from the Climate & Development Knowledge Network.\n\nTransferring rights over land from public domain to its indigenous inhabitants is argued to be a cost effective strategy to conserve forests. This includes the protection of such rights entitled in existing laws, such as India’s Forest Rights Act. The transferring of such rights in China, perhaps the largest land reform in modern times, has been argued to have increased forest cover. In Brazil, forested areas given tenure to indigenous groups have even lower rates of clearing than national parks.\n\nNew methods are being developed to farm more intensively, such as high-yield hybrid crops, greenhouse, autonomous building gardens, and hydroponics. These methods are often dependent on chemical inputs to maintain necessary yields. In cyclic agriculture, cattle are grazed on farm land that is resting and rejuvenating. Cyclic agriculture actually increases the fertility of the soil. Intensive farming can also decrease soil nutrients by consuming at an accelerated rate the trace minerals needed for crop growth. The most promising approach, however, is the concept of food forests in permaculture, which consists of agroforestal systems carefully designed to mimic natural forests, with an emphasis on plant and animal species of interest for food, timber and other uses. These systems have low dependence on fossil fuels and agro-chemicals, are highly self-maintaining, highly productive, and with strong positive impact on soil and water quality, and biodiversity.\n\nThere are multiple methods that are appropriate and reliable for reducing and monitoring deforestation. One method is the “visual interpretation of aerial photos or satellite imagery that is labor-intensive but does not require high-level training in computer image processing or extensive computational resources”. Another method includes hot-spot analysis (that is, locations of rapid change) using expert opinion or coarse resolution satellite data to identify locations for detailed digital analysis with high resolution satellite images. Deforestation is typically assessed by quantifying the amount of area deforested, measured at the present time.\nFrom an environmental point of view, quantifying the damage and its possible consequences is a more important task, while conservation efforts are more focused on forested land protection and development of land-use alternatives to avoid continued deforestation. Deforestation rate and total area deforested, have been widely used for monitoring deforestation in many regions, including the Brazilian Amazon deforestation monitoring by INPE. A global satellite view is available.\n\nEfforts to stop or slow deforestation have been attempted for many centuries because it has long been known that deforestation can cause environmental damage sufficient in some cases to cause societies to collapse. In Tonga, paramount rulers developed policies designed to prevent conflicts between short-term gains from converting forest to farmland and long-term problems forest loss would cause, while during the 17th and 18th centuries in Tokugawa, Japan, the shōguns developed a highly sophisticated system of long-term planning to stop and even reverse deforestation of the preceding centuries through substituting timber by other products and more efficient use of land that had been farmed for many centuries. In 16th-century Germany, landowners also developed silviculture to deal with the problem of deforestation. However, these policies tend to be limited to environments with \"good rainfall\", \"no dry season\" and \"very young soils\" (through volcanism or glaciation). This is because on older and less fertile soils trees grow too slowly for silviculture to be economic, whilst in areas with a strong dry season there is always a risk of forest fires destroying a tree crop before it matures.\n\nIn the areas where \"slash-and-burn\" is practiced, switching to \"slash-and-char\" would prevent the rapid deforestation and subsequent degradation of soils. The biochar thus created, given back to the soil, is not only a durable carbon sequestration method, but it also is an extremely beneficial amendment to the soil. Mixed with biomass it brings the creation of terra preta, one of the richest soils on the planet and the only one known to regenerate itself.\n\nCertification, as provided by global certification systems such as Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification and Forest Stewardship Council, contributes to tackling deforestation by creating market demand for timber from sustainably managed forests. According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), \"A major condition for the adoption of sustainable forest management is a demand for products that are produced sustainably and consumer willingness to pay for the higher costs entailed. Certification represents a shift from regulatory approaches to market incentives to promote sustainable forest management. By promoting the positive attributes of forest products from sustainably managed forests, certification focuses on the demand side of environmental conservation.\" Rainforest Rescue argues that the standards of organizations like FSC are too closely connected to timber industry interests and therefore do not guarantee environmentally and socially responsible forest management. In reality, monitoring systems are inadequate and various cases of fraud have been documented worldwide.\n\nSome nations have taken steps to help increase the number of trees on Earth. In 1981, China created National Tree Planting Day Forest and forest coverage had now reached 16.55% of China's land mass, as against only 12% two decades ago.\n\nUsing fuel from bamboo rather than wood results in cleaner burning, and since bamboo matures much faster than wood, deforestation is reduced as supply can be replenished faster.\n\nIn many parts of the world, especially in East Asian countries, reforestation and afforestation are increasing the area of forested lands. The amount of woodland has increased in 22 of the world's 50 most forested nations. Asia as a whole gained 1 million hectares of forest between 2000 and 2005. Tropical forest in El Salvador expanded more than 20% between 1992 and 2001. Based on these trends, one study projects that global forest will increase by 10%—an area the size of India—by 2050.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China, where large scale destruction of forests has occurred, the government has in the past required that every able-bodied citizen between the ages of 11 and 60 plant three to five trees per year or do the equivalent amount of work in other forest services. The government claims that at least 1 billion trees have been planted in China every year since 1982. This is no longer required today, but 12 March of every year in China is the Planting Holiday. Also, it has introduced the Green Wall of China project, which aims to halt the expansion of the Gobi desert through the planting of trees. However, due to the large percentage of trees dying off after planting (up to 75%), the project is not very successful. There has been a 47-million-hectare increase in forest area in China since the 1970s. The total number of trees amounted to be about 35 billion and 4.55% of China's land mass increased in forest coverage. The forest coverage was 12% two decades ago and now is 16.55%.\n\nAn ambitious proposal for China is the Aerially Delivered Re-forestation and Erosion Control System and the proposed Sahara Forest Project coupled with the Seawater Greenhouse.\n\nIn Western countries, increasing consumer demand for wood products that have been produced and harvested in a sustainable manner is causing forest landowners and forest industries to become increasingly accountable for their forest management and timber harvesting practices.\n\nThe Arbor Day Foundation's Rain Forest Rescue program is a charity that helps to prevent deforestation. The charity uses donated money to buy up and preserve rainforest land before the lumber companies can buy it. The Arbor Day Foundation then protects the land from deforestation. This also locks in the way of life of the primitive tribes living on the forest land. Organizations such as Community Forestry International, Cool Earth, The Nature Conservancy, World Wide Fund for Nature, Conservation International, African Conservation Foundation and Greenpeace also focus on preserving forest habitats. Greenpeace in particular has also mapped out the forests that are still intact and published this information on the internet. World Resources Institute in turn has made a simpler thematic map showing the amount of forests present just before the age of man (8000 years ago) and the current (reduced) levels of forest. These maps mark the amount of afforestation required to repair the damage caused by people.\n\nIn order to acquire the world’s demand for wood, it is suggested that high yielding forest plantations are suitable according to forest writers Botkins and Sedjo. Plantations that yield 10 cubic meters per hectare a year would supply enough wood for trading of 5% of the world’s existing forestland. By contrast, natural forests produce about 1–2 cubic meters per hectare; therefore, 5–10 times more forestland would be required to meet demand. Forester Chad Oliver has suggested a forest mosaic with high-yield forest lands interspersed with conservation land.\n\nGlobally, planted forests increased from 4.1% to 7.0% of the total forest area between 1990 and 2015. Plantation forests made up 280 million ha in 2015, an increase of about 40 million ha in the last ten years. Globally, planted forests consist of about 18% exotic or introduced species while the rest are species native to the country where they are planted. In South America, Oceania, and East and Southern Africa, planted forests are dominated by introduced species: 88%, 75% and 65%, respectively. In North America, West and Central Asia, and Europe the proportions of introduced species in plantations are much lower at 1%, 3% and 8% of the total area planted, respectively.\n\nIn the country of Senegal, on the western coast of Africa, a movement headed by youths has helped to plant over 6 million mangrove trees. The trees will protect local villages from storm damages and will provide a habitat for local wildlife. The project started in 2008, and already the Senegalese government has been asked to establish rules and regulations that would protect the new mangrove forests.\n\nWhile demands for agricultural and urban use for the human population cause the preponderance of deforestation, military causes can also intrude. One example of deliberate deforestation played out in the U.S. zone of occupation in Germany after World War II ended in 1945. Before the onset of the Cold War, defeated Germany was still considered a potential future threat rather than a potential future ally. To address this threat, the victorious Allies made attempts to lower German industrial potential, of which forests were deemed an element. Sources in the U.S. government admitted that the purpose of this was that the \"ultimate destruction of the war potential of German forests\". As a consequence of the practice of clear-felling, deforestation resulted which could \"be replaced only by long forestry development over perhaps a century\".\n\nOperations in war can also cause deforestation. For example, in the 1945 Battle of Okinawa, bombardment and other combat operations reduced a lush tropical landscape into \"a vast field of mud, lead, decay and maggots\".\n\nDeforestation can also result from the intentional tactics of military forces. Clearing forest became an element in the Russian Empire's successful conquest of the Caucasus in the mid-19th century.\nThe British (during the Malayan Emergency) and the United States (in the Korean War and in the Vietnam War) used defoliants (like Agent Orange or others).\n\nDeforestation eliminates a great number of species of plants and animals which also often results in an increase in disease. Loss of native species allows new species to come to dominance. Often the destruction of predatory species can result in an increase in rodent populations which can carry plague. Additionally, erosion can produce pools of stagnant water that are perfect breeding grounds for mosquitos, well known vectors of malaria, yellow fever, nipah virus, and more. Deforestation can also create a path for non-native species to flourish such as certain types of snails, which have been correlated with an increase in schistosomiasis cases.\n\nDeforestation is occurring all over the world and has been coupled with an increase in the occurrence of disease outbreaks. In Malaysia, thousands of acres of forest have been cleared for pig farms. This has resulted in an increase in the zoonosis the Nipah virus. In Kenya, deforestation has led to an increase in malaria cases which is now the leading cause of morbidity and mortality the country. A 2017 study in the \"American Economic Review\" found that deforestation substantially increased the incidence of malaria in Nigeria.\n\nAnother pathway through which deforestation affects disease is the relocation and dispersion of disease-carrying hosts. This disease emergence pathway can be called \"range expansion\", whereby the host’s range (and thereby the range of pathogens) expands to new geographic areas. Through deforestation, hosts and reservoir species are forced into neighboring habitats. Accompanying the reservoir species are pathogens that have the ability to find new hosts in previously unexposed regions. As these pathogens and species come into closer contact with humans, they are infected both directly and indirectly.\n\nA catastrophic example of range expansion is the 1998 outbreak of Nipah virus in Malaysia. For a number of years, deforestation, drought, and subsequent fires led to a dramatic geographic shift and density of fruit bats, a reservoir for Nipah virus. Deforestation reduced the available fruiting trees in the bats’ habitat, and they encroached on surrounding orchards which also happened to be the location of a large number of pigsties. The bats, through proximity spread the Nipah to pigs. While the virus infected the pigs, mortality was much lower than among humans, making the pigs a virulent host leading to the transmission of the virus to humans. This resulted in 265 reported cases of encephalitis, of which 105 resulted in death. This example provides an important lesson for the impact deforestation can have on human health.\n\nAnother example of range expansion due to deforestation and other anthropogenic habitat impacts includes the Capybara rodent in Paraguay. This rodent is the host of a number of zoonotic diseases and, while there has not yet been a human-borne outbreak due to the movement of this rodent into new regions, it offers an example of how habitat destruction through deforestation and subsequent movements of species is occurring regularly.\n\nA now well-developed theory is that the spread of HIV it is at least partially due deforestation. Rising populations created a food demand and with deforestation opening up new areas of the forest the hunters harvested a great deal of primate bushmeat, which is believed to be the origin of HIV.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23000071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23000071", "title": "Environmental impact of war", "text": "Environmental impact of war\n\nStudy of the environmental impact of war focuses on the modernization of warfare and its increasing effects on the environment. Scorched earth methods have been used for much of recorded history. However, methods of modern warfare cause far greater devastation on the environment. The progression of warfare from chemical weapons to nuclear weapons has increasingly created stress on ecosystems and the environment. Specific examples of the environmental impact of war include: World War I, World War II, the Vietnam War, the Rwandan Civil War, the Kosovo War and the Gulf War.\n\nThe Vietnam War had significant environmental implications by the use of chemical agents to destroy military significant vegetation. Enemies found an advantage in remaining invisible by blending into a civilian population or by taking cover in dense vegetation and opposing armies targeted natural ecosystems. The US military used “more than 20 million gallons of herbicides, were sprayed by the US to defoliate forests, clear growth along the borders of military sites and eliminate enemy crops.\" The chemical agents gave the US an advantage in wartime efforts. However, the vegetation was unable to regenerate and left behind bare mudflats even years after spraying. Not only was the vegetation affected, but also the wildlife: \"a mid-1980s study by Vietnamese ecologists documented just 24 species of birds and 5 species of mammals present in sprayed forests and converted areas, compared to 145-170 bird species and 30-55 kinds of mammals in intact forest.\" The uncertain long-term effects of these herbicides are now being discovered by looking at modified species distribution patterns through habitat degradation and loss in wetland systems, which absorbed the runoff from the mainland. \n\nThe Rwandan genocide led to the killing of roughly 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus. The war created a massive migration of nearly 2 million Hutus fleeing Rwanda over the course of just a few weeks to refugee camps in Tanzania and now modern day Democratic Republic of the Congo. This large displacement of people in refugee camps put pressure on the surrounding ecosystem. Forests were cleared in order to provide wood for building shelters and creating cooking fires: “these people suffered from harsh conditions and constituted an important threat impact to natural resources.” Consequences from the conflict also included the degradation of National Parks and Reserves. The population crash in Rwanda shifted personnel and capital to other parts of the country, making it hard to protect wildlife. \n\nMore broadly throughout Africa, war has been a major factor in the decline of wildlife populations inside national parks and other protected areas. However, a growing number of ecological restoration initiatives, including in Rwanda's Akagera National Park and Mozambique's Gorongosa National Park, have shown that wildlife populations and whole ecosystems can be successfully rehabilitated even after devastating conflicts. Experts have emphasized that solving social, economic, and political problems is essential for the success of such efforts.\n\nWorld War II (WW II) drove a vast increase in production, militarized the production and transportation of commodity, while introduced many new environmental consequences, which can still be seen today. World War II was wide ranging in its human, animals, and material destruction. The postwar effects of World War II, both ecological and social, are still visible decades after the conflict. \n\nDuring World War II, advanced technology was used to create aircraft, which were used in air raids. Aircraft during the war were used for transporting resources from different military bases and dropping bombs. These activities damaged habitats.\n\nSimilar to wildlife, ecosystems also suffer from the production of the noise pollution from military aircraft. During World War II, aircraft acted as a vector for the transportation of exotics whereby weeds and cultivated species were bought to oceanic island ecosystems by way of aircraft landing strips used for refueling and staging station during operations in the Pacific theatre. Before the war, the isolated islands around Europe were the habitat of a high number of anemic species. Aerial warfare during World War II had an enormous influence on fluctuating population dynamics.\n\nAfter four years of World War II in August 1945, the United States of America dropped an atomic bomb over the city of Hiroshima in Japan. About 70,000 people died in nine seconds at the bombing in Hiroshima. Three days after the bombing in Hiroshima, United States of America dropped a second atomic bomb in Nagasaki, Japan with the same devastating outcomes.\n\nThe nuclear weapon released a catastrophic load of energy. The temperature once the bombs were blasted reached about 7200°F. With temperature that high, all the flora and fauna are destroyed along with the infrastructure and human life in the impact zone.\n\nWhen the atomic bomb was dropped, it released enormous quantity of energy and radioactive particles. The radioactive particles released contaminated the land and water for miles. The initial blast increased the surface temperature, along with the crushing winds caused by the initial blast, trees and buildings in the path were all destroyed.\n\nAnimals which were caught within the nuclear blast wave have been impacted in numerous ways. Terrestrial species are likely to experience more damages compared to aquatic species due to the overpressure injury. Aquatic organisms are particularly sensitive to the effects of a blast. The results from the atomic bomb caused a large die-off in the fish population and caused a cascade in the food web system.\n\nDuring World War II, the combat zones in European forests experienced traumatic impacts from fighting. Behind the combat zones, timber from cut down trees to clear up the path for fighting. The shattered forests in the battle zones faced exploitation.\n\nThe use of heavily hazardous chemicals was first initiated during World War II. The long-term effects of chemicals result from both their potential persistence and the poor disposal program of nations with stockpiled weapons. During World War I (WW I), German chemists had developed chlorine gas and mustard gas. The development of the gases led to many casualties, and poisoned lands on and near the battlefields.\n\nLater in World War II, chemists developed even more harmful chemical bombs, which were packaged in barrels and directly deposited in the oceans. The disposal of the chemicals in ocean runs the risk of metal-based containers corroding and leaching the chemical contents of the vessel into the ocean. Through the chemical disposal in the ocean, the contaminates may be spread throughout the various components of the ecosystems damaging marine and terrestrial ecosystems.\n\nMarine ecosystems during World War II were damaged not only from chemical contaminates, but also from wreckage from naval ships, which leaked oil into the water. Oil contamination in the Atlantic Ocean due to World War II shipwrecks is estimated at over 15 million tonnes. Oil spills are difficult to clean up and take many years to clean. To this day, traces of oil can still be found in the Atlantic Ocean from the naval shipwrecks which happened during World War II. \n\nThe use of chemicals during war helped increase the scale of chemical industries and helped show the government the value of scientific research to the government. The development of chemical research during the war also lead to the postwar development of agricultural pesticides. The creation of pesticides was an upside for the years after the war. \n\nThe environmental impacts of World War II were very drastic, which allowed them to be seen in the Cold War and be seen today. The impacts of conflict, chemical contaminations, and aerial warfare all contribute to reduction in the population of global flora and fauna, as well as a reduction in species diversity\n\nDuring the 1991 Gulf War, the Kuwaiti oil fires were a result of the scorched earth policy of Iraqi military forces retreating from Kuwait in 1991 after conquering the country but being driven out by Coalition military forces. The Gulf War oil spill, regarded as the worst oil spill in history, was caused when Iraqi forces opened valves at the Sea Island oil terminal and dumped oil from several tankers into the Persian Gulf.\n\nSome American military personnel complained of Gulf War syndrome, typified by symptoms including immune system disorders and birth defects in their children. Whether it is due to time spent in active service during the war or for other reasons remains controversial.\nResources are a key source of conflict between nations: \"after the end of the Cold War in particular, many have suggested that environmental degradation will exacerbate scarcities and become an additional source of armed conflict.\" A nation’s survival depends on resources from the environment. Resources that are a source of armed conflict include territory, strategic raw materials, sources of energy, water, and food. In order to maintain resource stability, chemical and nuclear warfare have been used by nations in order to protect or extract resources, and during conflict. These agents of war have been used frequently: “about 125,000 tons of chemical agent were employed during World War I, and about 96,000 tons during the Viet-Nam conflict.” Nerve gas, also known as organophosphorous anticholinesterases, was used at lethal levels against human beings and destroyed a high number of nonhuman vertebrate and invertebrate populations. However, contaminated vegetation would mostly be spared, and would only pose a threat to herbivores. The result of innovations in chemical warfare led to a broad range of different chemicals for war and domestic use, but also resulted in unforeseen environmental damage.\n\nThe progression of warfare and its effects on the environment continued with the invention of weapons of mass destruction. While today, weapons of mass destruction act as deterrents and the use of weapons of mass destruction during World War II created significant environmental destruction. On top of the great loss in human life, “natural resources are usually the first to suffer: forests and wild life animals are wiped out.” Nuclear warfare imposes both direct and indirect effects on the environment. The physical destruction due to the blast or by the biospheric damage due to ionizing radiation or radiotoxicity directly effect ecosystems within the blast radius. Also, the atmospheric or geospheric disturbances caused by the weapons can lead to weather and climate changes.\n\nMilitary campaigns require large quantities of explosive weapons, a fraction of which will not detonate properly and leave unexploded weapons. This creates a serious physical and chemical hazard for the civilian populations living in areas which were once war zones, due to the possibility of detonation after the conflict, as well as the leaching of chemicals into the soil and groundwater.\n\nAgent Orange was one of the herbicides and defoliants used by the British military during the Malayan Emergency and the U.S. military in its herbicidal warfare program, Operation Ranch Hand, during the Vietnam War. An estimated 21,136,000 gal. (80 000 m³) of Agent Orange were sprayed across South Vietnam, exposing 4.8 million Vietnamese people to Agent Orange, and resulting in 400,000 deaths and disabilities, and 500,000 children born with birth defects. Many Commonwealth personnel who handled and/or used Agent Orange during and decades after the 1948-1960 Malayan conflict suffered from serious exposure of dioxin. Agent Orange also caused major soil erosion to areas in Malaya. An estimated 10,000 civilians and possibly insurgents in Malaya also suffered heavily from defoliant effects, though many historians likely agreed it was more than 10,000 given that Agent Orange was used on a large scale in the Malayan conflict and unlike the U.S., the British government manipulated the numbers and kept its secret very tight in fear of negative world public opinion.\n\nTesting of nuclear armaments has been carried out at various places including Bikini Atoll, the Marshall Islands Pacific Proving Grounds, New Mexico in the US, Mururoa Atoll, Maralinga in Australia, and Novaya Zemlya in the former Soviet Union, among others.\n\nDownwinders are individuals and communities who are exposed to radioactive contamination and/or nuclear fallout from atmospheric and/or underground nuclear weapons testing, and nuclear accidents.\n\nThe United States government studied the post-war effects of a radioactive isotope found in nuclear fallout called Strontium 90. The Atomic Energy Commission discovered that “Sr-90, which is chemically similar to calcium, can accumulate in bones and possibly lead to cancer”. Sr-90 found its way into humans through the ecological food chain as fallout in the soil, was picked up by plants, further concentrated in herbivorous animals, and eventually consumed by humans.\n\nThe use of depleted uranium in munitions is controversial because of numerous questions about potential long-term health effects. Normal functioning of the kidney, brain, liver, heart, and numerous other systems can be affected by uranium exposure, because in addition to being weakly radioactive, uranium is a toxic metal. It remains weakly radioactive because of its long half-life. The aerosol produced during impact and combustion of depleted uranium munitions can potentially contaminate wide areas around the impact sites or can be inhaled by civilians and military personnel. In a three-week period of conflict in Iraq during 2003, it was estimated over 1000 tons of depleted uranium munitions were used mostly in cities. The U.S. Department of Defense claims that no human cancer of any type has been seen as a result of exposure to either natural or depleted uranium.\n\nYet, U.S. DoD studies using cultured cells and laboratory rodents continue to suggest the possibility of leukemogenic, genetic, reproductive, and neurological effects from chronic exposure.\n\nIn addition, the UK Pensions Appeal Tribunal Service in early 2004 attributed birth defect claims from a February 1991 Gulf War combat veteran to depleted uranium poisoning. Campaign Against Depleted Uranium (Spring, 2004) Also, a 2005 epidemiology review concluded: \"In aggregate the human epidemiological evidence is consistent with increased risk of birth defects in offspring of persons exposed to DU.\"\n\nWith the high degree of mechanization of the military large amounts of fossil fuels are used. Fossil fuels are a major contributor to global warming and climate change, issues of increasing concern. Access to oil resources is also a factor for instigating a war.\n\nThe United States Department of Defense (DoD) is a government body with the highest use of fossil fuel in the world. According to the 2005 \"CIA World Factbook\", when compared with the consumption per country the DoD would rank 34th in the world in average daily oil use, coming in just behind Iraq and just ahead of Sweden.\n\nFlooding can be used as scorched earth policy through using water to render land unusable. It can also be used to prevent the movement of enemy combatants. During the Second Sino-Japanese War, dykes on the Yellow and the Yangtze Rivers were breached to halt the advance of Japanese forces. Also during the Siege of Leiden in 1573 the dykes were breached to halt the advance of Spanish forces. During Operation Chastise in Germany during WW2 the Eder and Sorpe river dams were bombed flooding a large area and halting industrial manufacture used by the Germans in the war effort.\n\n\nHuman security has traditionally been solely linked to military activities and defense. Scholars and institutions like the International Peace Bureau are now increasingly calling for a more holistic approach to security, particularly including an emphasis on the interconnections and interdependencies that exist between humans and the environment. Military activity has significant impacts on the environment. Not only can war be destructive to the socioenvironment, but military activities produce extensive amounts of greenhouse gases (that contribute to anthropogenic climate change), pollution, and cause resource depletion, among other environmental impacts.\n\nSeveral studies have found a strong positive correlation between military spending and increased greenhouse gas emissions, with the impact of military spending on carbon emissions being more pronounced for countries of the Global North (ie: OECD developed countries). Accordingly, the US military is estimated to be the number one fossil fuel consumer in the world\n\nAdditionally, military activities involve high emissions of pollution. The Pentagon’s director of environment, safety and occupational health, Maureen Sullivan, has stated that they work with approximately 39 000 contaminated sites. Indeed, the US military is also considered one of the largest generators of pollution in the world. Combined, the top five US chemical companies only produce one fifth of the toxins produced by the Pentagon. In Canada, the Department of National Defence readily admits it is the largest energy consumer of the Government of Canada, and a consumer of “high volumes of hazardous materials”.\n\nMilitary pollution is a worldwide occurrence. Armed forces from around the world were responsible for the emission of two thirds of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) that were famously banned in the 1987 Montreal Protocol for causing damage to the ozone layer. In addition, naval accidents during the Cold War have dropped at minimum 50 nuclear warheads and 11 nuclear reactors into the ocean, they remain on the ocean floor. \n\nMilitary land use needs (such as for bases, training, storage etc) often displace people from their lands and homes. Military activity uses solvents, fuels and other toxic chemicals which can leach toxins into the environment that remain there for decades and even centuries. Furthermore, heavy military vehicles can cause damage to soil and infrastructure. Military-caused noise pollution can also diminish the quality of life for nearby communities as well as their ability to rear or hunt animals to support themselves. Advocates raise concerns of environmental racism and/or environmental injustice as it is largely marginalized communities that are displaced and/or affected.\n\nMilitaries are also highly resource intensive. Weapons and military equipment make up the second largest international trade sector. The International Peace Bureau says that more than fifty percent of the helicopters in the world are for military use, and approximately twenty-five percent of jet fuel consumption is by military vehicles. These vehicles are also extremely inefficient, carbon intensive, and discharge emissions that are more toxic than those of other vehicles.\n\nMilitary funding is, at present, higher than ever before, and activists are concerned about the implication for greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. They advocate for demilitarization, citing the high greenhouse gas emissions and support the redirection of those funds to climate action. Currently the world spends about 2.2% of global GDP on military funding according to the World Bank. It is estimated that it would cost approximately one percent of global GDP yearly until 2030 to reverse the climate crisis. Moreover, activists emphasize the need for prevention and the avoidance of costly clean up. Currently, the expense for cleaning up military contaminated site is at least $500 billion. Finally, activists point to social issues such as extreme poverty and advocate for more funding to be redirected from military expenses to these causes. \n\nGroups working for demilitarization and peace include the International Peace Bureau, Canadian Voice of Women for Peace, The Rideau Institute, Ceasefire.ca, Project Ploughshares, and Codepink. See List of anti-war organizations for more groups.\n\nThe military Is not, entirely in opposition to environmental protection. There are examples from around the world of Nations’ respective departments of defense aiding in land management and conservation. For example, in Bhuj, India, military forces stationed there helped to reforest the area; in Venezuela, it is part of the National Guard’s responsibilities to protect natural resources Additionally, military endorsement of environmentally friendly technology such as renewable energy may have the potential to generate public support for these technologies. Finally, certain military technologies like GPS and drones are helping environmental scientists, conservationists, ecologists and restoration ecologists conduct better research, monitoring, and remediation. \n\nFrom a legal standpoint, environmental protection during times of war and military activities is addressed partially by international environmental law. Further sources are also found in areas of law such as general international law, the laws of war, human rights law and local laws of each affected country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "528980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528980", "title": "Estotiland", "text": "Estotiland\n\nEstotiland is a region that appeared on the Zeno map, located where Labrador, Quebec, and Newfoundland are now situated on nautical charts.\n\nAccording to the letters that accompanied the Zeno map, Estotiland was discovered by fishermen who sailed in the North Atlantic during the 14th century. Zeno, in a report addressed to his brother, writes: \"the fishing vessel \"Frise\" was blown westward by a storm, and arrived at a land named \"Estotiland,\" whose inhabitants traded with \"Engroenelandt.\" This country, \"Estotiland,\" was very fertile, and had mountains inland. The king of this country possessed books written in Latin, which he did not understand. The language that he spoke and his subjects shared no similarity to that of the Vikings. The king of Estotiland, seeing that his guests sailed safely with the aid of an instrument (the compass), persuaded them to make a maritime expedition to another land to the south called \"Drogeo.\"\" \n\nA number of historians have considered this map and these letters to be fakes since the 16th century. Nonetheless, a map created by French cartographer Nicolas Sanson around 1660 testifies to the existence of Estotiland and to its location north of New France.\n\nSeveral hypotheses have been put forward pertaining to the origin of the word Estotiland.\n\n"}
{"id": "16746283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16746283", "title": "Francesco della Rossa Bartholi", "text": "Francesco della Rossa Bartholi\n\nFrancesco della Rossa Bartholi (died c. 1372) was an Italian Franciscan chronicler.\n\nLittle is known of his life save what may be gathered from his own writings. A native of Assisi, he is found in 1312 as a student in Perugia, and in 1316 at Cologne, whence he returned to Umbria bearing many relics, including those of St. Louis, King of France, given him by the latter's daughter, Princess Blanche, who had become a Poor Clare.\n\nIn 1320 and in 1326, he was lector of theology at the Porziuncula, in 1332 guardian at S. Damiano and in 1334 he was at the Sacro Convento. He appears to have lived to a great age.\n\nHe was acquainted with Marinus of Assisi, John of La Verna, Alvarus Pelagius and other well-known Franciscans. Whether he is to be identified with the Francesco Rubea who is mentioned among the partisans of Michael de Cesena or with the Franciscus de Assisio who was long imprisoned at Florence on a charge of heresy is a matter of conjecture.\n\nBartholi wrote several works including a history of the Passion. He is best known for his \"Tractatus de Indulgentiâ Sanctae Mariae de Portiunculâ\" composed about 1335. He spent many of his later years in retouching and completing this treatise, on the origin and evolution of the Indulgence of Portiuncula. It comprises a collection of the ecclesiastical information and popular legends then obtainable on the subject. It was first published by Paul Sabatier with a wealth of critical apparatus in the Collection d'Etudes\" (Paris, 1900, Vol. II).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12665282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12665282", "title": "Gregory Clark (economist)", "text": "Gregory Clark (economist)\n\nGregory Clark (born 19 September 1957 in Bellshill, Scotland) is an economic historian at the University of California, Davis.\n\nClark, whose grandfathers were migrants to Scotland from Ireland, was born in Bellshill, Scotland. He attended Holy Cross High School in Hamilton. In 1974 he and a fellow pupil Paul Fitzpatrick won the Scottish Daily Express schools debating competition. After school he earned his B.A. in economics and philosophy at King's College, Cambridge in 1979 and his PhD at Harvard in 1985. He has also taught as an Assistant Professor at Stanford and the University of Michigan.\n\nClark is now a professor of economics, and was (until 2013) department chair, at the University of California, Davis. His areas of research are long term economic growth, the wealth of nations, the economic history of England and India, and social mobility.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "582933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=582933", "title": "Halberstadt", "text": "Halberstadt\n\nHalberstadt is a town in the German state of Saxony-Anhalt, the capital of Harz district. Located north of the Harz mountain range, it is known for its old town centre that was severely damaged in World War II and rebuilt in the following decades.\n\nHalberstadt is situated between the Harz in the south and the Huy hills in the north on the Holtemme and Goldbach rivers, both left tributaries of the Bode. The municipal area comprises the villages of Aspenstedt, Athenstedt, Langenstein, Sargstedt, and Ströbeck, all incorporated in 2010. Halberstadt is the base of the Department of Public Management of the Hochschule Harz University of Applied Studies and Research.\n\nThe town centre retains many important historic buildings and much of its ancient townscape. Notable places in Halberstadt include Halberstadt Cathedral, the Church of Our Lady (\"Liebfrauenkirche\") and St Martin's, churches built in the 12th and 13th centuries. Halberstadt is the site of the first documented large, permanent pipe organ installation in 1361. The cathedral is notable among those in northern European towns in having retained its medieval treasury in virtually complete condition. Among its treasures are the oldest surviving tapestries in Europe, dating from the 12th century. The town is also a stop on the scenic German Timber-Frame Road\n\nThe town can be reached via the Bundesstraße 6n, 79, 81, and 245 federal highways. Halberstadt station is an important railway hub on the Magdeburg–Thale and Halle–Vienenburg lines, mainly served by Transdev Sachsen-Anhalt. The Halberstadt tramway network currently operates two lines.\n\nGermania Halberstadt is a football club which plays in Halberstadt.\n\nIn 814 the Carolingian emperor Louis the Pious made the Christian mission in the German stem duchy of Saxony the episcopal see of the Diocese of Halberstadt. It was vested with market rights by King Otto III in 989. The town became the administrative centre of the Saxon Harzgau and an important trading location. The Halberstadt bishops had the Church of Our Lady erected from about 1005 onwards. In his fierce conflict with Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, the forces of the Saxon duke Henry the Lion devastated the town in 1179.\n\nUpon Henry's downfall, the Halberstadt diocese was elevated to a prince-bishopric about 1180. Its Cathedral was rebuilt from 1236 and consecrated in 1491. Halberstadt, Quedlinburg and Aschersleben joined a league of towns (\"Halberstädter Dreistädtebund\") in 1326; from 1387, the city was also a member of the Hanse.\n\nFrom 1479, the diocese was administrated by the Archbishops of Magdeburg. While the Halberstadt citizens turned Protestant around 1540, the cathedral chapter elected Prince Henry Julius of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel first Lutheran bishop in 1566. During the Thirty Years' War, the town was occupied by the troops of Albrecht von Wallenstein in 1629 and temporarily re-Catholicized according to the imperial Edict of Restitution. According to the 1648 Peace of Westphalia, the prince-bishopric was finally secularized to the Principality of Halberstadt held by Brandenburg-Prussia. The first secular governor was Joachim Friedrich von Blumenthal.\n\nHalberstadt became part of the newly established Kingdom of Prussia in 1701. From 1747 Johann Wilhelm Ludwig Gleim worked here as a government official and made his home an intellectual centre of the Enlightenment (\"Aufklärung\") movement. Upon the 1807 Treaty of Tilsit, the town became part of the Kingdom of Westphalia, a Napoleonic client-state, and administrative seat of the Westphalian Department of Saale. On 29 July 1809, a Westphalian regiment was defeated by the Black Brunswickers under Prince Frederick William of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel in the Battle of Halberstadt.\n\nAfter the defeat of Napoleon, the town was restored to Prussia and subsequently administered within the Province of Saxony. From 1815, Halberstadt was home of garrison of the Prussian 7th (Magdeburg) Cuirassiers \"von Seydlitz\" regiment, with Otto von Bismarck in the rank of an officer à la suite from 1868. The town's economy was decisively promoted by the opening of the Magdeburg–Halberstadt Railway in 1843. The tramway was inaugurated in 1903. \n\nIn 1912 the Halberstädter Flugzeugwerke aircraft manufacturer was founded followed by the opening of a military airbase, providing the German \"Luftstreitkräfte\" in World War I. After the war it had to close down according to the regulations of the Treaty of Versailles, until in the course of the German re-armament, it opened again in 1935 as a branch of the Junkers company in Dessau. The aircraft factory was the site of a \"SS\" forced labourer camp, one of several subcamps of Buchenwald; the production facilities and the nearby \"Luftwaffe\" airbase were targets of Allied bombing during the 'Big Week' in February 1944.\n\nIn the last days of World War II, in April 1945, US forces approached Halberstadt as they attacked remaining Nazi troops in the short-lived Harz pocket. They dropped leaflets instructing Halberstadt's Nazi ruler to fly a white flag on the town hall as a token of surrender. He refused, no white flag was raised and on 8 April 1945, 218 Flying Fortresses of the 8th Air Force, accompanied by 239 escort fighters, dropped 595 tons of bombs on the centre of Halberstadt. This killed about 2,500 people and converted most of the old town into some 1.5 million cubic metres of rubble, which American troops briefly occupied three days later. By June 1945, the town and its garrison was handed over to the 3rd Shock Army of the Soviet Red Army forces.\n\nHalberstadt was part of newly established Saxony-Anhalt from 1945–1952, after which it was within Bezirk Magdeburg in East Germany. During the Peaceful Revolution in Autumn 1989, St Martin's Church was a centre of the Swords to ploughshares movement. After the reunification of Germany, Halberstadt became part of the restored state of Saxony-Anhalt.\n\nIn the 17th century, Halberstadt had one of the largest Jewish communities in central Europe. At the time, nearly one in twelve of the town's inhabitants, almost 700 people, were Jewish. Notable amongst them was Berend Lehmann (1661–1730). One example of Lehmann's work was the impressive Baroque synagogue he financed, which was completed in 1712. In November 1938, after the \"Kristallnacht\" pogroms, the Nazi authorities forced the Jewish community to demolish the building, as the attack on it was said to have left it in danger of collapsing.\n\nA short distance from the synagogue, Lehmann also had a house built for students of Judaism, with a collection of theological writings. This building, known as the \"Klaus\", was where many important students of the Talmud and rabbis were taught. The \"Klaus\" gave Halberstadt the reputation of being an important centre for the study of the Torah. Today the Moses Mendelssohn Academy is based there; this organises exhibitions, congresses and presentations and provides a wide range of information about the Jewish culture and way of life.\n\nA performance of John Cage's organ piece \"As Slow As Possible\" began in the Burchardikirche in Halberstadt in September 2001; the performance is scheduled to take 639 years. The concert began on 5 September 2001 with a rest lasting 17 months. On the dates of the sound changes the church is usually well visited.\n\n\nHalberstadt is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166323", "title": "History of the Khitans", "text": "History of the Khitans\n\nThe history of the Khitans dates back to the 4th century. The Khitan people dominated much of Mongolia and modern Manchuria (Northeast China) by the 10th century, under the Liao dynasty, and eventually collapsed by 1125 (or 1211).\nOriginally from Xianbei origins they were part of the Kumo Xi tribe until 388 when the Kumo Xi-Khitan tribal grouping was defeated by the newly established Northern Wei. This allowed the Khitan to organize and consolidate their own tribe and entity which led to the beginning of Khitan written history.\nFrom the 5th to the 8th centuries the Khitan were dominated by the steppe powers to their West the Turks and then the Uyghurs. The Chinese also came from the south (Northern dynasties or Tang). In some cases they were under Korean domination (from the East, mainly Goguryeo) according to the balance of power at any given time. Under this triple domination the Khitan started to show growing power and independence. Their rise was slow compared to others because they were frequently crushed by neighbouring powers—each using the Khitan warriors when needed but ready to crush them when the Khitans became too powerful.\nEnjoying the departure of the Uyghur people for the West and the collapse of the Tang dynasty in the early 10th century they established the Liao dynasty in 907. The Liao dynasty proved to be a significant power north of the Chinese plain as they were continuously moving south and West and gaining control over former Chinese and Turk-Uyghur's territories. They eventually fell to the Jin dynasty of the Jurchen in 1125, who subordinated and absorbed the Khitans to their military benefit.\nFollowing the fall of the Liao Dynasty many Khitans moved further west and established the state of Qara Khitai. Their name survived in the Russian word for China (Китай, \"Kitay\") as well as the archaic English (Cathay) Portuguese (\"Catai\") and the Spanish (\"Catay\") appellations of the name. They have been classified by Chinese historians as one of the Eastern proto-Mongolic ethnic groups – the Donghu ().\n\nReferences to the Khitan people in Chinese sources date back to the 4th century. Ancestors of the Khitan were the Yuwen clan of the Xianbei; an ethnic group situated in the area covered by the modern Liaoning province. After their regime was conquered by the Murong clan the remnants scattered in the modern-day Inner Mongolia and mixed there with the original Mongolic population.\n\nThey had been identified as a distinct ethnic group since paying tribute to the Northern Wei dynasty in the mid-6th century. \n\nDuring the time of the Chinese Tang dynasty the Khitan people were vassals to the suzerain Tang or Turks, depending on the balance of power between the two, or the suzerain Uyghurs when they replaced the Turks as the main steppe power. Once the Uyghurs left their home in the Mongolian Plateau in 842 enough of a power vacuum was left to give the Khitan the opportunity to cast off the bonds of subordinacy. The Khitan occupied the areas vacated by the Uyghurs bringing them under their control.\nIn the 5th century, the Khitan were under the Toba Wei influence.\n\nIn the 6th century, the Khitan tribes were still a weak confederation after being heavily defeated in 553 by the Northern Qi who enslaved many Khitans and seized a large part of their livestock, leading to harsh times for the Khitans. By that time the Khitan are still described as the lower level of nomadic civilization, their 'confederation' still being an anarchist system of isolated tribes, each tending his own sheep and horses and hunting on his private territory. Some federal leaders were created after elections during a time of war after which it became a local power.\n\nWhen the Sui dynasty was established in 581 when the Khitan were living in a period of internal military turmoil. Their tribes were fighting each other perhaps as a result of Sui Wendi strategy to increase tensions between nomads in order to create internal divisions. In 586 some Khitans tribes submitted to the Eastern Tujue (Turks) while others submitted to the Sui.\n\nNotable Khitan raids on the Chinese Empire were record as early as the 7th century. In 605 they staged a large scale raid southward invading Sui territories (Northern modern Shanxi, Hebei). They were eventually crushed by a Sui general leading 20,000 Turkish cavalry.\n\nUnder Emperor Taizong of Tang (r. 626–649) the Khitans became vassals of Tang dynasty. Despite some occasional clashes, the Khitans remained Chinese vassals until the 690s when Empress Wu took the throne of China. According to the \"Loose rein policy\", the Khitan area was under Tang's control by Zhao Wenhui, the Governor-general of Yingzhou. Zhao was assisted by two local Khitan chieftains: Li Jinzhong ,the governor (Dudu) of Songmo protectorate, and Duke of Yongle County, Sun Wanrong, who was the brother-in-law of Li Jinzhong.\n\nOpposition rose because of the behaviour of Zhao Wenhui, who treated Khitan chieftains as his servants and refused to provide help during a famine that struck the Khitan area in 696. According to the \"loose rein policy\" the Tang Governor-general was supposed to provide famine relief. When Zhao Wenhui failed to do so, Li and Sun launched a Khitan rebellion in the fifth month of 696.\n\nLi Jinzhong declared himself \"Wushang Kehan\" (無上可汗: \"paramount khaghan\") and killed Zhao Wenhui after capturing Yingzhou. Sun Wanrong assisted him as general who successfully led tens of thousands of troops marching southward and conquered several other towns of Tang dynasty.\n\nThe first significant Chinese response was to send an army led by twenty-eight generals, but they were defeated by Khitans in the Battle of Xiashi Gorge (near modern Lulong County of Hebei Province) in the eighth month of 696. Empress Wu was astonished by the announcement of the defeat and she quickly issued decrees to launch a new attack to the rebels. Khitans kept winning on the battlefields until Li Jinzhong died of disease. The rising power of the Khitans also threatened the newly establishedLater Turk Khanate (a.k.a. Second Tujue Empire, 682–745) and the khagan Ashina Mochuo, who had supported the Khitan rebellion, switched to Empress Wu's side after the Chinese gave him several promises including an imperial marriage for his daughter, adoption as the son of Empress Wu, the relocating of his people to (Hexi Corridor) and the restoration of Turkish overlordship of the Khitans.\n\nThe second major counter-attack from Empress Wu to the Khitans came in October 696, taking advantage of the recent death of Li Jingzhong. This time, Tang forces planned to attack Khitan from the south and the Turks would also invade Khitan from north. The Khitans suffered heavy losses in this campaign, but Sun Wanrong managed to stand still and motivated the Khitan troops. The rebellion of Khitans continued and Sun Wanrong's men stormed into Jizhou and Yingzhou, shaking the whole region of Hebei. Empress Wu sent one of his best generals, Wang Xiaojie, assisted by Su Honghui and some other top warriors, with a third army of 170,000 men, to put down the rebellon. Due to the unfamiliarity to the local geography and terrains, Wang Xiaojie's force was ambushed by Sun Wanrong at the Dongxia Rocky Valley (东峡石谷). Wang Xiaojie was killed while Su Honghui fled away. After that, Khitans captured Youzhou (near today's Beijing), which was an important gateway to the northern plain of China.\n\nIn a fourth campaign during May 697, Empress Wu sent Lou Shide and Shatuo Zhongyi with 200,000 troops to stop Sun Wanrong's from going further south. Khitans tried to ask for reinforcement from Turks. However, Turks refused the proposed Khitan-Turk alliance. Instead, they somehow allied with Empress Wu and launched a massive attack on Khitans. Meanwhile, Kumo Xi, another minority group who initially allied with Khitan in this rebellion, switched to Tang. Khitans had to face devastating Turkish raids from the north while a 200,000-men Chinese and Xi allied force attacking from the south. In this critical situation, Sun Wanrong was assassinated by one of his own subordinates, and the Khitan force collapsed. After this rebellion, Khitans began a new allegiance with the Turks as Mochou Khaghan and the Empress Wu had planned early in 696. Empress Wu also appointed a new Khitan chieftain, whose name was Li Shihuo (697–717, [李]失活).\n\nConsequently, Turks broke away with Empress Wu (who handed the crown back to the royal clan of Tang in 705). Tang launched several campaigns against them from 700 to 714 and eventually the khanate of Turks was overthrown by Uighurs who was supported by Tang dynasty.\n\nThe Turks played a major role in crushing a rebellion in military actions and in a strategic role as well. The Turks were to submit to China in 630 after their first Turkish Empire was crushed. In 679 during a period of Chinese internal political turmoil they revolted. They were defeated by Tang troops in 681 in a Pyrrhic victory, also, the remaining Eastern Turks reunited under Ashina Guduolu (died 691) who was able to proclaim the rebirth of the Turkish empire without Tang's reaction.\n\nWhen Li-Sun died his brother Mochuo replaced him and engaged the Turks in an aggressive policy of \"plunder to strengthen\" as the best way to revitalize his Empire. The Turks plundered all their neighbour, the Khitan and Chinese included, but encouraged the Khitans to rebel against Tang rule. Almost as soon as the Khitan rebelled and were successful the Turks proposed an alliance with China. The Turks, engaged in a war against China, were just asking the Khitans for a diversion in the east allowing them to be more free on their front. When the Khitans unexpectedly appeared to be successful they both were surprised and afraid at seeing a new power born on their East. Seeing the Khitans fighting hard against the Chinese seemed the perfect occasion to take advantage of both the busy Khitan and the downtrodden Tang. By attacking Khitan on their rear the Turks provided an inestimable help to Tang which also worked for themselves by crushing that eastern rising power.\n\nWhile the fourth Chinese campaign was still not launched, and despite previous propositions of alliance, the Turks attacked the Chinese territories to show clearly they were strong in the third month of 697. Along with the final victory they freed some Turkish prisoners held in six Chinese northern border prefectures since 670–674, gained the submission of both the Khitan and the Xi, plundered a large amount of seed-grain, silk, farming implements and iron as well as winning noble titles for the Mochou khaghan (such as General, Khaghan and other noble ranks) and the asked for imperial marriage.\n\nIn the 710s the Khitan military chief Ketuyu (可突于) was so valiant and beloved by Khitan's commoners that the Khitan King Suogu (李娑固 Li Suogu, r. 718–720) became both jealous of him and in fear of a take-over. Accordingly, he plotted to assassinate Ketuyu. As is often the case the plot was disclosed and Ketuyu's troops attacked the King who fled to Yingzhou to get Chinese support.\nXu Qinzhan (許欽?), the Chinese Governor-General of Yingzhou, immediately called for a punitive military campaign ordering General Xue Tai assisted by 500 valiant soldier, Xi troops, and Suogu troops to go northwards. The Chinese-loyalist army was crushed and both Suogu (Khitan King) and Li Dapu (Xi King) were killed while Xue Tai was captured by Ketuyu. In hope of resuming good relations with the Chinese Tai was not executed and an envoy was sent to humbly apologize while Ketuyu enthroned Suogu's cousin Yuyu (李鬱于, 720-722/724).\n\nPeaceful relations were restored and when Ketuyu made a second coup to face the new king Tuyu suspicions, the Tang court peacefully confirmed the newly enthroned king Shaogu (李邵固 Li Shaogu, 725–730) who on his side displayed respect for Tang's wishes of appeasement.\n\nIn 730 Ketuyu went to present tributes to Chang'an but was mistreated by chancellor Li Yuanhong. Back in the Khitan territories Ketuyu assassinated the pro-Tang Shaogu in the fifth month of 730 and switched the allegiance of his subjects, and of the Xi tribes, from Tang to the Türks sending a clear message to Tang. Ketuyu then attacked Pinglu (part of Yingzhou) where a defensive army of Tang's was stationed. The Chang'an officials were panicked by the vision of a new Khitan rebellion and ordered Prince of Zhong Jun, as commander in chief assisted by 18 generals, to go north with warriors recruited from as far as Guannei, Hedong, Henan and Hebei to crush this Khitan-Xi rebellion.\n\nIn the third month of 732 the Khitan-Xi troops were defeated by the Prince of Xin'an and Ketuyu had to flee while Li Shi Suogao, the Xi king, betrayed him submitting to Tang with his 5,000 subjects getting the titles of the Prince of Guiyi (allegiance and righteousness) and prefect of Guiyi Zhou with the Xi allowed to settle in Youzhou under Chinese protection.\n\nA second major campaign came in the fourth month of 733 when Guo Yingjie was ordered to lead 10,000 troops, assisted by Xi warriors, to crush Khitan. Ketuyu came first with Turkish support putting the Chinese-Xi troops in difficulty forcing the Xi to flee to save themselves. Predictably Guo Yingjie and his men, left alone to face the Khitan-Turkish troops, lost with heavy casualties. Guo and most of his men were killed on the battlefield. One year later the Khitan were defeated by Zhang Shougui, regional commander of Youzhou in the second month of 734.\n\nKetuyu, seeing the Khitan forces exhausted by repetitive Tang campaigns, pretended to surrender in the twelfth month of 734 and was murdered, together with his puppet King Qulie (李屈列 Li Qulie 730–734), by his subordinate Li Guozhe (李過折). Li Guozhe was soon himself assassinated in favor of a Ketuyu clan restoration.\n\nWhile traditional scholars explain this Ketuyu Rebellion as a typically barbarian reaction modern historians are more cautious. Both the Chinese Liao expert Shu Fen and the Japanese Matsui Hitoshi are inclined to think that Chinese lenient policy encouraged Ketuyu's arrogance.\nIn contrast, Xu Elian-Qian supports the theory that Chinese interferences in Khitan internal changes caused the aggression to Ketuyu's reactions. That may be true for the conflict of 720 and the aggressive Chinese behaviour. But this opinion does not explain the Chinese appeasement policy in 725 where the Chinese let Ketuyu kill the Khitan king and enthrone a new one. When Ketuyu was personally mistreated, in Chang'an in 730, this resentment led him to choose the larger of consequence of diplomatic opposition by turning his submission to the Turks. This was predictably understood by Chang'an as a first magnitude treason which could not be tolerated and lead to the ensuing five years of war to recapture them. Shu and Matsui do not see this Chinese reaction as an aggressive interference but rather as a predictable interference caused by Ketuyu's arrogant reaction to the recent lenient policy.\n\nXu explains that the Khitans were at a turning point. The Dahe family collapsing as an after-shock of the Li-Sun Rebellion while the Yaonian family was growing by organizing a new confederation of alliances. Accordingly, this period was rich in turmoil. The opposition may have come from the respective perceived definition of the Loose rein agreement. In times of weakness in the central power, such as in the 680's, this loose rein policy meant largely independence for the subordinate population who chose their own chief etc. In times of strong central power, as under Tang Xuanzong (r. 712–756), the central Chinese power was inclined to impose pro-Chinese choices, including in choice of Kings and major chiefs, despite the previous loose rein agreement. Also in prosperous times such as Xuanzong's reign, and his courage in facing the 720's coup, Tang officials immediately sent an army to support the dethroned pro-Tang king clearly interfering in Khitan internal affairs.\n\nThe 730–734 war seems to have been the consequence of both Chinese revitalized foreign policy, Khitan internal turmoil and associated oppression of Ketuyu and the miscalculations made by him.\n\nBy the 730s regional commanders already have largely autonomy of initiative to face neighbouring threats and accordingly boundary wars and rebellions are understood by many scholars as the full responsibility of local general commanders.\n\nIn the third month of 736 Zhang Shougui, the general commander of Youzhou, sent his protected An Lushan, an officer of the Pinglu Army (平盧軍) based in modern Chaoyang who was said to know 6 languages of Chinese, to attack Khitan and the Xi rebels but An Lushan made an overtly audacious attack which cost him almost all of his troops. He escaped the usual execution for such disobedience cases in part because of Zhangs affection for him and in part thanks to Emperor Xuanzong who, overviewing death penalty cases, believed that his audacious and mid-barbarian character should not pay by death.\n\nYouzhou soon became the \"Bingmashi\" (兵馬使) \"of the Pinglu Army\" in the seventh month of 741. He carefully cultivated relationships with other officials and generals to earn praises and bribed Imperial messengers to include him in their reports. As the consequence of this systematic bribery he was promoted to \"commandant at Yingzhou\" (Ying prefecture) and \"Jiedushi\" (\"military governor\") of the Pinglu army in 742 to face and defeat the northern threat from Khitans, Xi, Balhae and Heishui Mohe. He was made military governor of Fanyang Circuit (范陽, headquartered in modern Beijing) in 744 plundering Khitan and Xi villages to display his military abilities. This continuous harassment of Khitan is understood by some scholars as provocation to the Khitan aggressiveness and the threat aimed to get more troops from Chang'an for his future rebellion as well as the reason for the 745 Khitan-Xi rebellion.\n\nAs commander of the northeastern frontier in 744–755 An Lushan organised military operations against the Khitan-Xi nomads. His motivation was to curry favour with the Tang court and probably also to obtain more troops. He needed these for his subsequent campaigns to defeat what he saw as the enormous threat presented by the northeastern \"babarians\" amongst who the Khitan were the most significant. He may also have been motivated by thoughts of preparing for his future rebellion of 755–763.\n\nIn the third month of 745 several Tang princesses were married to Khitan's leaders in a sign of appeassment. But for some reason the Khitans soon turned into an open rebellion against Tang in the ninth month of 745 killing the princesses and starting military operations. Huge previous pressures from An Lushan combined with the Chang'an courts praise for him may have been seen Khitan as presenting an impasse against which they eventually revolted.\n\nThe Khitans were quickly defeated by An Lushan's toops by punitive expeditions and traps. Sources report that Banquets for a peace declaration were set up by An Lushan and offered to Khitan and Xi who,happy to get both peace and free provisions, rushed to the buffet and drunk heavily. It turned out that the food and wine were poisoned by narcotics. An Lushan then led his warriors to kill all of those who were sleeping on the ground or drunk enough to be easy to kill and the Chiefs' heads were sent to the Tang court for display. Sources have said that each of such Banquets ended with the death of thousands of warriors. This claim is difficult to believe: can Khitan have been that naive to let An Lushan kill thousands of them, several times, in the same kind of \"free food traps\". The difficulty is that Chinese sources seem biased against An Lushan depicting him by this story as a terrible untrustable enemy. The final result was that Khitan's 745 rebellion was crushed.\n\nIn 751–752, following An Lushan's provocations and harassment, the Khitans moved south to attack the Chinese Tang Empire. Accordinglys Khitan were soon subject to a Chinese campaign in the eighth month of 751: An Lushan assisted by 2,000 Xi guides leading 60,000 Chinese troops into Khitan territories. When the fighting started the Xi suddenly turned their support to Khitan and the Khitan-Xi army then quickly pushed against the Tang armies who were hampered by rains. The Khitan-Xi army killed almost all the enemy soldiers while An Lushan escaped to Shizhou with just twenty cavalrymen. The defending general Su Dingfang, a Tang general, was eventually able to stop the Khitan pursuit troops which retreated. They had their battlefield victory, although not An Lushan's head, and so they laid siege to the city which only Shi Siming (one An Lushan's general) was able to end. One of his generals was killed in action and, after retreating, he blamed and executed the other two for the defeat.\n\nIn 752, to punish this audacity and insult, a 200,000 strong army including both Chinese and barbarian infantry and cavalry went northwards to meet the Khitan. But while An Lushan requested that the ethnically Tujue general Li Xianzhong (李獻忠) accompany him Li feared An and, when compelled to, rebelled putting a halt to An's campaign. After three years in the month fourth of 755 An announced his victory about which historical records are not very clear. By this time An Lushan was already engaged in an opposition to the Yang clan located in Chang'an which turned around his system of alliances. Put into an impasse he rose into rebellion and had to walk southwards to quickly beat the unprotected heartland of the Tang territories. In this movement he looked for assistance from the northern nomads: Tujue, Uighurs, Khitan, Xi and Shiwei. All, to some extent, assisted his troops and his rebellion, Khitan principally by his previously taken prisoners'. But the Khitan were exhausted and took little part in these campaigns.\n\nThe continuous agitation of Khitans on the northeast of the Empire, maintained by An Lushan actions, provided An Lushan more and more support troops from Chang'an for his own power and ambitions growing to 160,000–200,000 men. This was caused by several factors:\n\nAccordingly, An Lushan's power strengthened with associated pressure on the Khitan.\n\nThe turning point came when An became worried about the post of Xuanzong-Li Linfu (An Lushan add \"get their favor\", but at the cost of relations with other officials). Noticing that the heart of the empire was without defenses An considered to plan a rebellion. He selected a dozen able generals and some 8,000 soldiers from amongst the surrendered Khitan, Xi, and Tongluo (同羅) tribesmen organizing them into an elite corps known as the \"Yeluohe\" (曵落河, \"the brave\").\n\nWhen Li Linfu died and Yang Guozhong, a Yang clan member, replaced him as high chancellor An Lushan rose in rebellion with his armies and attacked the central power with Khitan, Xi and Turkish supporters.\nThe Khitan were concentrating themselves on their own development and were relatively peaceful.\n\nWhen the Turks where overthrown by the Uighurs in 745 the war-loving power of the Turks was replaced by the commerce-loving Uighurs. The control that the Uighurs had on the Khitans were of a different kind. Uighurs were focusing on economic exchanges, were the protectors of the diplomatic stability and left large political and internal freedom to their vassals. The Khitans used this to keep a peaceful environment helping to strengthen all their demographic, economic and structural force.\n\nFor their demographic the main point was the choice to avoid foreign conflicts. The new \"Steppe Lords\" were relatively peaceful while the Tang dynasty was later greatly weakened by the An-Shi rebellion of 755–763 providing a new intra-China situation with a weak center and with provincial generals pacification and strengthening of their respective provinces. In this context the Khitans and their close-relatives the Xi had opposite strategies. Kumo Xi kept a relatively aggressive foreign policy slowly exhausting their forces. The Khitans chose to stay as a calm self-defensive power enjoying most of the Manchurian plain and working to improve their daily situation. While previous centuries had seen successive Turko-Chinese provocations or recall to obeisance, and the following wars had prevented Khitan gaining any notable expansion, the 8th-century situation eventually allowed one. This demographic growth would strongly support the other qualitative changes.\n\n\nThe Liao dynasty was founded in 907 when Abaoji, posthumously known as Emperor Taizu, was named the leader of the Khitan nation. Even though the Great Liao dynasty was not declared until the 947 it is generally said to have begun with the elevation of Abaoji to emperor.\n\nThough Abaoji died in 926 the dynasty would last nearly two more centuries. Five cities were designated as capitals during that dynasty. In addition to the supreme capital in the heartland of Khitan territory there were four regional capitals. One of which was Beijing which became a capital for the first time in its history. It was not the principle capital of the dynasty but rather was designated as the southern capital after the Khitan acquired the contentious Sixteen Prefectures in 935.\n\nAbaoji introduced a number of innovations – some more successful than others. He divided the empire into two parts: one was governed based on nomadic models while the sedentary population was governed largely in accordance with Chinese techniques. Less successful was the attempted introduction of primogeniture in succession to the throne. Although he desired his eldest son to be heir he did not succeed Abaoji.\n\nAbaoji was \"afraid that their use of Chinese advisers and administrative techniques would blur their own ethnic identity, the Khitan made a conscious effort to retain their own tribal rites, food, and clothing and refused to use the Chinese language, devising a writing system for their own language instead.\" The first of these two scripts was created in 920. The second, based on alphabetic principles, was created five years later.\n\nThe Khitans were absorbed by the Jurchens and widely used in the following years of war to conquer the northern Song territories.\n\nIn contrast a number of the nobles of the Liao dynasty escaped the area towards the Western Regions establishing the short-lived Qara Khitai or Western Liao dynasty. They were in turn absorbed by the local Turkic and Iranian populations and left no influence of themselves. As the Khitan language is still almost completely illegible it is difficult to create a detailed history of their movements. The Khitans were mainly employed by the Mongols in military and civil services after they conquered most of Eurasia. Daur people and some Baarin people are direct descendants of the Khitans.\n\nOn the Eastern front, Khitans elements fled the Mongols offensives toward Korea. In 1216 the Khitans invaded Goryeo and defeated the Korean armies multiple times, even reaching the gates of the capital and raiding deep into the south, but were defeated by Korean General Kim Chwi-ryeo who pushed them back north to Pyongan, where the remaining Khitans were finished off by allied Mongol-Goryeo forces in 1219. These Khitans are possibly the origin of the Baekjeong.\n\n\n\nSee also Ethnic groups in Chinese history\n\nSee also List of the Khitan rulers\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40910477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40910477", "title": "Hugh Williams (historian)", "text": "Hugh Williams (historian)\n\nHugh Williams (1843–1911) was a Welsh church historian and college tutor, known also as a Presbyterian minister.\n\nThe son of Hugh Williams (d. 1905, aged ninety-two), carrier and small freeholder, of Menai Bridge, Anglesey, by his wife Jane, he was born at Porthaethwy in Anglesey on 17 September 1843. He had schooling there and at Bangor, and for some years worked as a mason, while continuing studies.\n\nIn 1864 Williams entered the Calvinistic Methodist College, Bala, where he acted (1867–9) as one of the tutors. He graduated B.A. London in 1870 (first in second class honours in classics); M.A. London in 1871 (second in philosophy honours). He then ran a grammar school at Menai Bridge, at the same time ministering to Calvinistic Methodists in Anglesey, and was ordained without charge (1873) in the presbyterian church of Wales. Appointed professor of Greek and mathematics at Bala in August 1873, he entered on his duties in the following year. In the vacation of 1874 he visited Germany for the study of the language. When the Bala College became purely theological (1891), he was appointed professor of church history.\n\nIn 1903 Williams was moderator of the North Wales assembly of the presbyterian church. On 19 April 1904 he received the degree of D.D. in Glasgow University. He was for some time troubled with a form of laryngitis. He preached every Sunday, though not reckoned a popular preacher, and conducted a weekly bible class. He was a member of the theological board and court of the University of Wales; also of the council of the Bangor College.\n\nAfter suffering for nearly two years from arterial disease, Williams died at Bala on 11 May 1911, and was buried in the churchyard of Llanycil, Merionethshire.\n\nWilliams made a reputation with his edition of \"Gildas, with English translation and notes\", pt. i. 1899; pt. ii. 1901 (Cymrodorion Record series). Magazine articles and papers prepared the way for his major work, \"Christianity in Early Britain\", which was issued by the Clarendon press in February 1912: \"Some Aspects of the Christian Church in Wales in the Fifth and Sixth Centuries\" (1895); \"The Four Disciples of Illtud\" (1897); the article on the Welsh church in the new edition (1889–96) of the \"Encyclopædia Cambrensis\" (\"Gwyddoniadur Cymreig\"); a review of Heinrich Zimmer's \"Keltische Kirche\" (1901) and \"Pelagius in Irland\" (1901) in the \"Zeitschrift für Celtische Philologie\" (1903); and the article \"Church (British)\" in the \"Encyclopædia of Religion and Ethics\" (1910). He had outlined his findings in his Davies lecture, delivered at Birkenhead on 8 June 1905.\n\nWilliams published in Welsh, including:\n\n\nHe also edited Lewis Edwards's \"Holiadau Athrawiaethol\", Bala, 1897.\n\nOn 31 December 1884 Williams married Mary, eldest daughter of Urias Bromley, Old Hall, Chester, who survives him without issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "866522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=866522", "title": "Human zoo", "text": "Human zoo\n\nHuman zoos, also called ethnological expositions, were 19th-, 20th-, and 21st-century public exhibitions of humans, usually in a so-called natural or primitive state. The displays often emphasized the cultural differences between Europeans of Western civilization and non-European peoples or with other Europeans who practiced a lifestyle deemed more primitive. Some of them placed indigenous populations in a continuum somewhere between the great apes and Europeans. Ethnological expositions have been extensively criticized and ascertained as highly degrading and racist, depending on the show and individuals involved.\n\nIn the late 19th century German ethnographic museums were an attempt at empirical study of human culture. They contained artifacts from cultures around the world organized by continent allowing visitors to see the similarities and differences between the groups and form their own ideas. The ethnographic museums of Germany were explicitly designed to steer away from projecting certain principles or instructing its viewers to interpret the material in a particular manner. They were instead left open for museum guests to form their own opinions.\n\nThe directors of Germany's ethnographic museums intended to create a unifying history of mankind, to show how humans had progressed to the cosmopolitan creatures that walked the halls of these museums. Imperialism influenced the supporters, visitors, and collectors of these museums, the displays, directions, and political rhetoric.\n\nEthnology studies in Germany took a new approach in the 1870s as human displays were incorporated into zoos. These exhibits were lauded as educational to the general population by the scientific community of the time, because they were informing of the way people lived across the world. Very quickly the exhibits were used as a way to show that Europeans had evolved into a superior cosmopolitan life.\n\nAs Ethnogenic expositions were discontinued in Germany around 1931, there were many repercussions for the performers. Many of the people brought from their homelands to work in the exhibits had created families in Germany, and there were many children that had been born in Germany. Once they no longer worked in the zoos or for performance acts these people were stuck living in Germany where they had no rights and were harshly discriminated against. During the rise of the Nazi party the foreign actors in these stage shows were typically able to stay out of concentration camps because there were so few of them that the Nazis did not see them as a real threat. Although they were able to avoid concentration camps, they were not able to participate in German life as citizens of ethnically German origin could. The Hitler Youth did not allow children of foreign parents to participate, and adults were rejected as German soldiers. Many ended up working in war industry factories or foreign laborer camps. After WWII ended, racism in Germany became more concealed or invisible but did not go away. Many people of foreign descent intended to leave after the war, but because of their German nationality, it was difficult for them to emigrate.\n\nCarl Hagenbeck was a German exotic animal businessman, who became famous for his conquering of the animal trade market during the mid to late 1800’s. Due to the costs of acquiring and keeping animals, the financial implications started to worry Hagenbeck, and he began looking for other ways to alleviate the company’s monetary strains. Heinrich Leutemann, an old friend of Hagenbeck suggested bringing along the people from the foreign lands to accompany the animals. The idea struck Hagenbeck as brilliant and he had a group of Laplanders accompany his next shipment of Reindeer. They set up traditional houses and went about their business as usual on the Hagenbeck property. The display was so successful that Carl was organizing his second show before the first was over. Although the concept of parading peoples captured from conquered lands goes back to the Romans, Hagenbeck claimed to have the first show’s displaying “cultures” from foreign lands. Carl Hagenbeck continued to bring indigenous people along with the animals he was importing from across the globe. The people would come with their hunting equipment, homes, and other facets of their daily life. Hagenbeck’s displays evolved in complexity as the years went by. In 1876 Hagenbeck had a group of 6 Sami accompany a herd of reindeer, and by 1874 his acts included close to 67 men, women, and children in his \"Ceylon\" show performing with 25 elephants. The performances also expanded from showing every day activities such as milking reindeer and building huts, to displaying some of the more extravagant parts of the cultures such as magicians, jugglers, and devil dancers.\n\nThe notion of the human curiosity has a history at least as long as colonialism. For instance, in the Western Hemisphere, one of the earliest-known zoos, that of Moctezuma in Mexico, consisted not only of a vast collection of animals, but also exhibited humans, for example, dwarves, albinos and hunchbacks.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, the Medici developed a large menagerie in the Vatican.\nIn the 16th century, Cardinal Hippolytus Medici had a collection of people of different races as well as exotic animals.\nHe is reported as having a troupe of so-called Savages, speaking over twenty languages; there were also Moors, Tartars, Indians, Turks and Africans.\n\nDuring the 1850s, Maximo and Bartola, two microcephalic children from El Salvador, were exhibited in the US and Europe under the names Aztec Children and Aztec Lilliputians. However, human zoos would become common only in the 1870s in the midst of the New Imperialism period.\n\nIn the 1870s, exhibitions of exotic populations became popular in various countries. Human zoos could be found in Paris, Hamburg, Antwerp, Barcelona, London, Milan, and New York City. Carl Hagenbeck, a merchant in wild animals and future entrepreneur of many zoos in Europe, decided in 1874 to exhibit Samoan and Sami people as \"purely natural\" populations. In 1876, he sent a collaborator to the Egyptian Sudan to bring back some wild beasts and Nubians. The Nubian exhibit was very successful in Europe and toured Paris, London, and Berlin. In 1880, Hagenbeck dispatched an agent to Labrador to secure a number of Esquimaux (Eskimo / Inuit) from the moravian mission of Hebron; these Inuit were exhibited in his Hamburg Tierpark. Other ethnological expositions included Egyptian and Bedouin mock settlements. Hagenbeck would also employ agents to take part in his ethnological exhibits, with the aim of exposing his audience to various different subsistence modes and lifestyles. Among these hired workers were Hersi Egeh and his lineage from Berbera in present-day northwestern Somalia, who in the process accumulated much wealth, which they later reinvested in real estate in their homeland. The viceroy of India likewise gave Hagenbeck permission to hire local inhabitants for an exhibit, on the condition that Hagenbeck would first have to deposit funds into the royal treasury.\n\nGeoffroy de Saint-Hilaire, director of the Jardin d'acclimatation, decided in 1877 to organize two ethnological spectacles that presented Nubians and Inuit. That year, the audience of the Jardin d'acclimatation' doubled to one million. Between 1877 and 1912, approximately thirty ethnological exhibitions were presented at the \"Jardin zoologique d'acclimatation\".\n\nBoth the 1878 and the 1889 Parisian World's Fair presented a Negro Village (\"village nègre\"). Visited by 28 million people, the 1889 World's Fair displayed 400 indigenous people as the major attraction. The 1900 World's Fair presented the famous diorama living in Madagascar, while the Colonial Exhibitions in Marseilles (1906 and 1922) and in Paris (1907 and 1931) also displayed humans in cages, often nude or semi-nude. The 1931 exhibition in Paris was so successful that 34 million people attended it in six months, while a smaller counter-exhibition entitled \"The Truth on the Colonies\", organized by the Communist Party, attracted very few visitors—in the first room, it recalled Albert Londres and André Gide's critiques of forced labour in the colonies. Nomadic Senegalese Villages were also presented.\n\nIn 1883, native people of Suriname were displayed in the International Colonial and Export Exhibition in Amsterdam, held behind the Rijksmuseum.\n\nIn the late 1800s, Hagenbeck organized exhibitions of indigenous populations from various parts of the globe. He staged a public display in 1886 of Sinhalese autochthones from the Sri Lanka. In 1893/1894, he also put together an exhibition of Sami/Lapps in Hamburg-Saint Paul.\n\nAt the 1901 Pan-American Exposition and at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition, where Little Egypt performed bellydance, and where the photographers Charles Dudley Arnold and Harlow Higginbotham took depreciative photos, presenting indigenous people as catalogue of \"types\", along with sarcastic legends.\n\nIn 1896, to increase the number of visitors, the Cincinnati Zoo invited one hundred Sioux Native Americans to establish a village at the site. The Sioux lived at the zoo for three months.\n\nIn 1904, Apaches and Igorots (from the Philippines) were displayed at the Saint Louis World Fair in association with the 1904 Summer Olympics. The US had just acquired, following the Spanish–American War, new territories such as Guam, the Philippines, and Puerto Rico, allowing them to \"display\" some of the native inhabitants. According to the Rev. Sequoyah Ade:\n\nTo further illustrate the indignities heaped upon the Philippine people following their eventual loss to the Americans, the United States made the Philippine campaign the centrepoint of the 1904 World's Fair held that year in St. Louis, MI [sic]. In what was enthusiastically termed a \"parade of evolutionary progress,\" visitors could inspect the \"primitives\" that represented the counterbalance to \"Civilisation\" justifying Kipling's poem \"The White Man's Burden\". Pygmies from New Guinea and Africa, who were later displayed in the Primate section of the Bronx Zoo, were paraded next to American Indians such as Apache warrior Geronimo, who sold his autograph. But the main draw was the Philippine exhibition complete with full size replicas of Indigenous living quarters erected to exhibit the inherent backwardness of the Philippine people. The purpose was to highlight both the \"civilising\" influence of American rule and the economic potential of the island chains' natural resources on the heels of the Philippine–American War. It was, reportedly, the largest specific Aboriginal exhibition displayed in the exposition. As one pleased visitor commented, the human zoo exhibition displayed \"the race narrative of odd peoples who mark time while the world advances, and of savages made, by American methods, into civilized workers.\"\n\nIn 1906, Madison Grant—socialite, eugenicist, amateur anthropologist, and head of the New York Zoological Society—had Congolese pygmy Ota Benga put on display at the Bronx Zoo in New York City alongside apes and other animals. At the behest of Grant, the zoo director William Hornaday placed Benga displayed in a cage with the chimpanzees, then with an orangutan named Dohong, and a parrot, and labeled him \"The Missing Link\", suggesting that in evolutionary terms Africans like Benga were closer to apes than were Europeans. It triggered protests from the city's clergymen, but the public reportedly flocked to see it.\nBenga shot targets with a bow and arrow, wove twine, and wrestled with an orangutan. Although, according to \"The New York Times\", \"few expressed audible objection to the sight of a human being in a cage with monkeys as companions\", controversy erupted as black clergymen in the city took great offense. \"Our race, we think, is depressed enough, without exhibiting one of us with the apes\", said the Reverend James H. Gordon, superintendent of the Howard Colored Orphan Asylum in Brooklyn. \"We think we are worthy of being considered human beings, with souls.\"\n\nNew York City Mayor George B. McClellan Jr. refused to meet with the clergymen, drawing the praise of Hornaday, who wrote to him: \"When the history of the Zoological Park is written, this incident will form its most amusing passage.\"\n\nAs the controversy continued, Hornaday remained unapologetic, insisting that his only intention was to put on an ethnological exhibition. In another letter, he said that he and Grant—who ten years later would publish the racist tract \"The Passing of the Great Race\"—considered it \"imperative that the society should not even seem to be dictated to\" by the black clergymen.\n\nOn Monday, September 8, 1906, after just two days, Hornaday decided to close the exhibition, and Benga could be found walking the zoo grounds, often followed by a crowd \"howling, jeering and yelling.\"\n\nIn 1925, a display at Belle Vue Zoo in Manchester, England, was entitled \"Cannibals\" and featured black Africans depicted as savages.\n\nBy the 1930s, a new kind of human zoo appeared in America, nude shows masquerading as education. These included the Zoro Garden Nudist Colony at the Pacific International Exposition in San Diego, California (1935-6) and the Sally Rand Nude Ranch at the Golden Gate International Exposition in San Francisco (1939). The former was supposedly a real nudist colony, which used hired performers instead of actual nudists. The latter featured nude women performing in western attire. The Golden Gate fair also featured a \"Greenwich Village\" show, described in the Official Guide Book as “Model artists’ colony and revue theatre.”\n\nA Congolese village was displayed at the Brussels 1958 World's Fair.\n\nIn April 1994, an example of an Ivory Coast village was presented as part of an African safari in Port-Saint-Père, near Nantes, in France, later called Planète Sauvage.\n\nAn African village, intended as a craft and cultural festival, was held in Augsburg Zoo in Germany in July 2005, and was subject to widespread criticism.\n\nIn August 2005, London Zoo displayed four human volunteers wearing fig leaves (and bathing suits) for four days.\n\nIn 2007, Adelaide Zoo ran a Human Zoo exhibition which consisted of a group of people who, as part of a study exercise, had applied to be housed in the former ape enclosure by day, but then returned home by night. The inhabitants took part in several exercises, and spectators were asked for donations towards a new ape enclosure.\n\nAlso in 2007, pygmy performers at the Festival of Pan-African Music (Fespam) were housed at a zoo in Brazzaville, Congo. Although members of the group of twenty people - among them an infant, age three-months - were not officially on display, it was necessary for them to \"collect firewood in the zoo to cook their food, and [they] were being stared at and filmed by tourists and passers-by\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59684", "title": "Huế", "text": "Huế\n\nHuế ( is a city in central Vietnam that was the seat of Nguyễn Dynasty emperors from 1802 to 1945, and capital of the protectorate of Annam. A major attraction is its vast, 19th-century citadel, surrounded by a moat and thick stone walls. It encompasses the Imperial City, with palaces and shrines; the Forbidden Purple City, once the emperor's home; and a replica of the Royal Theater.\nThe city was also the battleground for the Battle of Huế, which was one of the longest and bloodiest battles of the Vietnam War.\n\nHuế originally rose to prominence as the capital of the Nguyễn lords, a feudal dynasty that dominated much of southern Vietnam from the 17th to the 19th century. In 1775 when Trịnh lord Trịnh Sâm captured it, it was known as Phú Xuân (富春). The city's current name is likely a non-Sino-Vietnamese reading of the Chinese 化 (Sino-Vietnamese: hoá), as in the historical name Thuận Hoá (順化).\nIn 1802, Nguyễn Phúc Ánh (later Emperor Gia Long) succeeded in establishing his control over the whole of Vietnam, thereby making Huế the national capital.\n\nMinh Mạng (r. 1820-40) was the second emperor of the Nguyễn Dynasty, reigning from 14 February 1820 (his 29th birthday) until his death, on 20 January 1841. He was a younger son of Emperor Gia Long, whose eldest son, Crown Prince Cảnh, had died in 1801. Minh Mạng was well known for his opposition to French involvement in Vietnam, and for his rigid Confucian orthodoxy.\n\nDuring the French colonial period, Huế was in the protectorate of Annam. It remained the seat of the Imperial Palace until 1945, when Emperor Bảo Đại abdicated and the DRV government was established with its capital at Hà Nội (Hanoi), in the north.\n\nWhile Bảo Đại was proclaimed \"Head of the State of Vietnam\" with the help of the returning French colonialists in 1949 (although not with recognition from the communists or the full acceptance of the Vietnamese people), his new capital was Sài Gòn (Saigon), in the south.\n\nDuring the Republic of Vietnam, Huế, being very near the border between the North and South, was vulnerable in the Vietnam War. In the Tết Offensive of 1968, during the Battle of Huế, the city suffered considerable damage not only to its physical features, but its reputation as well, due to a combination of the American military bombing of historic buildings held by the North Vietnamese, and the massacre at Huế committed by the communist forces.\n\nAfter the war's conclusion, many of the historic features of Huế were neglected because they were seen by the victorious communist regime and some other Vietnamese as \"relics from the feudal regime\"; the Vietnamese Communist Party doctrine officially described the Nguyễn Dynasty as \"feudal\" and \"reactionary.\" There has since been a change of policy, however, and many historical areas of the city are currently being restored.\n\nThe city is located in central Vietnam on the banks of the Perfume River, just a few miles inland from the East Sea. It is about south of Hanoi and about north of Hồ Chí Minh City.\n\nHuế features a tropical monsoon climate under the Köppen climate classification. Failling short of a tropical rainforest climate. The dry season is from March to August, with high temperatures of . The rainy season is from August to January, with a flood season from October, onwards. The average rainy season temperature is , sometimes as low as . Spring lasts from January to late February.\n\nHuế comprises 27 administrative divisions, including 27 \"phường\" (urban wards):\nIn the center of Vietnam, Huế was the capital city of Vietnam for approximately 150 years during feudal times (1802–1945), and the royal lifestyle and customs have had a significant impact on the characteristics of the people of Huế. That impact can still be felt today.\n\nHistorically, the qualities valued by the royal family were reflected in its name-giving customs, which came to be adopted by society at large. As a rule, royal family members were named after a poem written by Minh Mạng, the second emperor of Nguyễn Dynasty. The poem, Đế hệ thi\", has been set as a standard frame to name every generation of the royal family, through which people can know the family order as well as the relationship between royal members. More importantly, the names reflect the essential personality traits that the royal regime would like their offspring to uphold. This name-giving tradition is proudly kept alive and nowadays people from Huế royal family branches (normally considered 'pure' Huế) still have their names taken from the words in the poem.\n\nThe design of the modern-day \"áo dài\", a Vietnamese national costume, evolved from an outfit worn at the court of the Nguyễn Lords at Huế in the 18th century. A court historian of the time described the rules of dress as follows:\nThis outfit evolved into the \"áo ngũ thân\", a five-paneled aristocratic gown worn in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Inspired by Paris fashions, Nguyễn Cát Tường and other artists associated with Hanoi University redesigned the \"ngũ thân\" as a modern dress in the 1920s and 1930s. While the \"áo dài\" and \"nón lá\" are generally seen as a symbol of Vietnam as a whole, the combination is seen by Vietnamese as being particularly evocative of Huế. Violet-coloured \"áo dài\" are especially common in Huế, the color having a special connection to the city's heritage as a former capital.\nThe cuisine of Huế forms the heart of Central Vietnamese cuisine, but one of the most striking differences is the prominence of vegetarianism in the city. Several all-vegetarian restaurants are scattered in various corners of the city to serve the locals who have a strong tradition of eating vegetarian twice a month, as part of their Buddhist beliefs. Another feature of Huế dishes that sets them apart from other regional cuisines in Vietnam is the relatively small serving size with refined presentation, a vestige of its royal cuisine. Huế cuisine is notable for often being very spicy.\n\nHue cuisine has both luxurious and popular rustic dishes. With such a rich history, Hue's royal cuisine combines both taste and aesthetics. It consists of several distinctive dishes from small and delicate creations, originally made to please the appetites of Nguyen feudal lords, emperors, and their hundreds of concubines and wives.\n\nThe imperial court practiced various religions such as Buddhism, Taoism and Confucianism. The most important altar was the Esplanade of Sacrifice to the Heaven and Earth, where the monarch would offer each year prayers to the Heaven and Earth.\n\nIn Huế, Buddhism enjoyed stronger support than elsewhere in Vietnam, with more monasteries than anywhere else in the country serving as home to the nation's most famous monks.\n\nIn 1963, Thích Quảng Đức drove from Hue to Saigon to protest anti-Buddhist policies of the South Vietnamese government, setting himself on fire on a Saigon street. Photos of the self-immolation became some of the enduring images of the Vietnam conflict.\n\nThich Nhat Hanh, world-famous Zen master now living in France, originates from Huế.\n\nHuế is well known for its historic monuments, which have earned it a place in UNESCO's World Heritage Sites. The seat of the Nguyễn emperors was the Imperial City, which occupies a large, walled area on the north side of the Perfume River. Inside the citadel was a forbidden city where only the emperors, concubines, and those close enough to them were granted access; the punishment for trespassing was death. Today, little of the forbidden city remains, though reconstruction efforts are in progress to maintain it as a historic tourist attraction.\n\nRoughly along the Perfume River from Huế lie myriad other monuments, including the tombs of several emperors, including Minh Mạng, Khải Định, and Tự Đức. Also notable is the Thiên Mụ Pagoda, the largest pagoda in Huế and the official symbol of the city.\n\nA number of French-style buildings lie along the south bank of the Perfume River. Among them are Quốc Học High School, the oldest high school in Vietnam, and Hai Ba Trung High School.\n\nThe Huế Museum of Royal Fine Arts on 3 Le Truc Street also maintains a collection of various artifacts from the city.\n\nIn addition to the various touristic attractions in Hué itself, the city also offers day-trips to the Demilitarized Zone lying approximately north, showing various war settings like The Rockpile, Khe Sanh Combat Base or the Vinh Moc tunnels.\n\nIn the first 11 months of 2012, Huế received 2.4 million visitors, an increase of 24.6% from the same period of 2011. 803,000 of those 2.4 million visitors were foreign guests, an increase of 25.7%. Although tourism plays a key role in the city's socioeconomic development, it also has negative impacts on the environment and natural resource base. For example, services associated with tourism, such as travel, the development of infrastructure and its operation, and the production and consumption of goods, are all energy-intensive. Research by the Climate and Development Knowledge Network has identified traditional ‘garden houses’ as having the potential to increase tourist traffic and revenue. Apart from the environmental, economic and cultural benefits provided by garden houses, their promotion could pave the way for other low carbon development initiatives.\n\nThe Huế Central Hospital, established in 1894, was the first Western hospital in Vietnam. The hospital, providing 2078 beds and occupying 120,000 square meters, is one of three largest in the country along with Bạch Mai Hospital in Hanoi and Chợ Rẫy Hospital in Ho Chi Minh City, and is managed by the Ministry of Health.\n\nHuế Railway Station provides a rail connection to major Vietnamese cities, via the North-South Railway. Phu Bai International Airport is just south of the city centre.\n\n\n\nNotes\nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "45121635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45121635", "title": "Jean François Foppens", "text": "Jean François Foppens\n\nJean François Foppens, sometimes Latinized Johannes Franciscus Foppens (1689–1761), was a Belgian ecclesiastical historian, and literary biographer and bibliographer. He is best known for his \"Bibliotheca belgica, sive virorum in Belgio vita scriptisque illustrium catalogus\" (2 vols., Brussels, 1739), a catalogue of Belgian authors and their works.\n\nFoppens was born in Brussels on 17 November 1689, the son of a family of printers. He was sent to Leuven University in 1704 and graduated Master of Arts in 1706, at the age of 17. Around 1713 he began lecturing on Philosophy at the university while studying Theology. In 1715 he graduated Licentiate of Theology and began a clerical career, holding a canonry of the church of St Martin in Aalst, then St. Salvator's Cathedral in Bruges, and finally St. Rumbold's Cathedral in Mechelen. He died in Mechelen on 16 July 1761 and was buried in the cathedral.\n\n"}
{"id": "41066895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41066895", "title": "John Farquhar Fulton", "text": "John Farquhar Fulton\n\nJohn Farquhar Fulton (November 1, 1899 – May 29, 1960) was an American neurophysiologist and science writer. He received numerous degrees from Oxford University and Harvard University. He taught at Magdalen College School of Medicine at Oxford and later became the youngest Sterling Professor of Physiology at Yale University. His main contributions were in primate neurophysiology and history of science.\n\nJohn Farquhar Fulton was born in Saint Paul, Minnesota as the youngest of 6 children to Edith Stanley Wheaton and John Farquhar Fulton, an ophthalmologist who helped found the University of Minnesota. He studied at the University of Minnesota from 1917–18 and then transferred to Harvard University, receiving a B.S. in 1921. Starting in 1921, he studied neurophysiology at Magdalen College, Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, earning a B.A. with first class honors in 1923. Then, as a Christopher Welch Scholar at Magdalen College, he received an M.A. and a D.Phil. in 1925. He then received an M.D. from Harvard in 1927. After his time at Harvard, he focused his studies on neurosurgery at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston under Harvey Cushing. He later returned to Oxford to receive a D.Sc. in 1941 and D.Litt. in 1957. He was hospitalized for diabetes mellitus in 1950 and for cardiac difficulties in 1957. He died at the age of 60 due to heart failure.\n\nFulton taught as a demonstrator in physiology for two years at Oxford University starting in 1923. He taught briefly at the Magdalen College School of Medicine from 1928–29, then transferred to Yale University, becoming the youngest Sterling Professor of Physiology.\n\nHis leadership extended outside the classroom. His positions included editor for the \"Journal of Neurophysiology\"; creator of the Yale Aeromedical Research Unit in 1940; chairman of the Subcommittee on Historical Records of the National Research Council, member of the Committee on Aviation Medicine; trustee for the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University in 1942; president of the History of Science Society from 1947 to 1950; first chairman of the Yale Department of History and Medicine in 1951, along with Harvey Williams Cushing and Arnold Klebs, and head of the \"Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences\" from 1951-60.\n\nFulton strongly encouraged the addition of humanities into the scientific fields by placing the history of sciences into general education. His passion for this topic landed him the role of president of the History of Science Society from 1947-50. He aided in the founding of institutions such as the Medical Historical Library at Yale (1941), the Logan Clendening Lectures in the History of Medicine at the University of Kansas in 1950, the Yale Department of History of Medicine (with Harvey Williams Cushing and Arnold Klebs in 1951), and the Yale Department of the History of Science and Medicine in 1959.\n\nDuring his time as president of the History of Science Society, he was a member of the editorial board of its historical journal \"Isis\" and helped stabilize it so it could grow in popularity. He also organized meetings in 1947 for the Committee on the History of Science in General Education, which created a project to collect materials to use in the teaching of history of science.\n\nHe argued for the English translation of historical texts that traced the history of the sciences. He had a hobby as an avid book collector, and he donated much of his collection to the Yale Medical Historical Library. He also added his own work to these collections. He wrote biographies for Harvey Cushing, Benjamin Silliman, Robert Boyle, Girolamo Fracastoro, Richard Lower, John Mayow, Kenelm Digby, and Joseph Priestley. Fulton also discovered early publications of Ambroise Paré, a surgeon who lived in the 16th century.\n\nFulton created the first primate research laboratory in the United States. Through the 1930s, he and other scientists did comparative studies on functional localization in the cerebral cortex. They found that lesioning the prefrontal cortex created calming effects in the monkeys. Fulton proposed, but did not implement, the idea of using this technique on humans to relieve mental diseases. Fulton's team's findings influenced Portuguese neurologist Egas Moniz, who developed the medical practice of the frontal lobotomy in humans and who won the Nobel Prize for his work in 1949.\n\nFulton's work in the field of neurophysiology brought about the creation of the \"Journal of Neurophysiology\" in 1938.\n\nThe impact of Fulton's studies in neurophysiology extended to the military during World War II. Fulton created the Yale Aero-Medical Research Unit, which lasted from 1940-1951. It made great progress in the fields of aviation medicine as well as high-altitude flying, which caused Fulton to be awarded various honors (below).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314612", "title": "Juan Antonio Llorente", "text": "Juan Antonio Llorente\n\nJuan Antonio Llorente (March 30, 1756 in Rincón de Soto (La Rioja), Spain – February 5, 1823 in Madrid) was a Spanish historian.\n\nLlorente was raised by an uncle after his parents died. He studied at the University of Zaragoza, and, having been ordained priest, became vicar-general to the bishop of Calahorra in 1782. In 1785, he became commissary of the Holy Office (Inquisition) at Logroño and, in 1789, its general secretary at Madrid.\nIn the crisis of 1808, Llorente identified himself with the Bonaparte regime and was engaged for a few years in superintending the execution of the decree for the suppression of the monastic orders, in examining the archives of the Spanish Inquisition and in arguing for the submission of the Spanish church to the Bonaparte monarch.\n\nHis 1810 project for a division of Spain in prefectures and subprefectures (under the French revolutionary inspiration) was never brought into practice because of the war. On the return of King Ferdinand VII to Spain in 1814, he retreated to France, where he published his great work, \"Histoire critique de l'Inquisition espagnole\" (Paris, 1817-1818). His works \"were the first fully documented accounts of the Inquisition to have seen the light of day in over three hundred years of the tribunal's existence.\"\n\nTranslated into English, German, Dutch and Italian, it attracted much attention in Europe and involved its author in considerable persecution. While Llorente was in France, the mob destroyed his Spanish residence and his library of over 8,000 rare books and manuscripts (some irreplaceable). After the coup of Rafael de Riego (1820), he supported the new Liberal government. The discovery of his Carbonarian activities and the publication of his \"Portraits politiques des papes\" in 1822 culminated in a peremptory order to leave France.\n\nBoth the personal character and the literary accuracy of Llorente have been assailed, but, although he was not an exact historian, there is no doubt, according to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.)\", that he made an honest use of documents relating to the Inquisition which, in part, are no longer extant.\n\nThe English translation of the \"Historia\" (London, 1826) is abridged. Llorente also wrote \"Memorias para la historia de la revolución de España\" (Paris, 1814-1816), translated into French (Paris, 1815-1819); \"Noticias históricas de las tres provincias vascongadas\" (Madrid, 1806-1808); an autobiography, \"Noticia biográfica\" (Paris, 1818), and other works. Llorente's unpublished notes contributed a century later to the most reliable biography (by Gregorio Marañón) of Philip II's infamous secretary, Antonio Pérez.\n\n"}
{"id": "51572309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51572309", "title": "Language Contact and Lexical Enrichment in Israeli Hebrew", "text": "Language Contact and Lexical Enrichment in Israeli Hebrew\n\nLanguage Contact and Lexical Enrichment in Israeli Hebrew is a scholarly book written by linguist Ghil'ad Zuckermann, published in 2003 by Palgrave Macmillan. The book proposes a socio-philological framework for the analysis of \"camouflaged borrowing\" such as phono-semantic matching. It introduces for the first time a classification for \"multisourced neologisms\", new words that are based on two or more sources at the same time. \n\nThe book was the first monograph published within the series \"Palgrave Studies in Language History and Language Change\". \n\nIt provides new perspectives on etymology, word formation, language change, loanwords and contact linguistics. It establishes a principled classification of neologisms, their semantic fields, the roles of source languages, and the attitudes of purists and ordinary native speakers towards multi-factorial coinage. It analyses the tension between linguistic creativity and cultural flirting on the one hand, and the preservation of a distinct language identity on the other hand.\n\nThe analysis presented in this book challenges Einar Haugen's classic typology of lexical borrowing. Whereas Haugen categorizes borrowing into either substitution or importation, this book explores cases of \"simultaneous substitution and importation\" in the form of camouflaged borrowing. Examples of such mechanisms are phonetic matching, semanticized phonetic matching, phono-semantic matching and calquing.\n\nThe book examines words and phrases in Israeli (Modern Hebrew), Revolutionized Turkish, Mandarin Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Yiddish, Estonian, Swahili, pidgins and creoles.\n\nThe book has two ISBNs: and . It consists of 304 pages, including an index. The cover of the book features three Israeli Hebrew words, all finally-stressed:\n\n\nThe book was commended by Geoffrey Lewis (University of Oxford), James A. Matisoff (University of California, Berkeley), Jeffrey Heath (University of Michigan), and Shmuel Bolozky (University of Massachusetts).\n\nAccording to Joseph T. Farquharson (Linguistlist):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094250", "title": "Laurel Thatcher Ulrich", "text": "Laurel Thatcher Ulrich\n\nLaurel Thatcher Ulrich (born July 11, 1938) is an American historian of early America and the history of women and a professor at Harvard University. Her approach to history has been described as a tribute to \"the silent work of ordinary people\"—an approach that, in her words, aims to \"show the interconnection between public events and private experience.\"\n\nUlrich was born in Sugar City, Idaho, to John Kenneth Thatcher, schoolteacher and superintendent as well as state legislator and farmer; and Alice Siddoway Thatcher. She graduated from the University of Utah, majoring in English and journalism, and gave the valedictory speech at commencement.\n\nIn 1971, she earned a master's degree in English at Simmons College and a doctorate in history from the University of New Hampshire in 1980.\n\nAfter completing her Ph.D., Ulrich joined the faculty at the University of New Hampshire, gradually working her way up from graduate assistant to tenured faculty member. She remained on the faculty at UNH through 1995.\n\nIn 1991, Ulrich received both the Pulitzer Prize and the Bancroft Prize for her work of history, A Midwife's Tale. In 1992, the MacArthur Foundation chose Ulrich as a MacArthur Fellow in 1992\n\nIn 1995 she became James Duncan Phillips Professor of Early American History and director of the Charles Warren Center of Studies in American History at Harvard University.\n\nUlrich served as President of the American History Association 2009-2010 and the Mormon History Association 2014-2015.\n\nAs of 2018, Ulrich is 300th Anniversary University Professor, Emerita at Harvard.\n\nIn a 1976 scholarly article about little-studied Puritan funeral services, Ulrich included the phrase \"well-behaved women seldom make history.\" The phrase was picked up and soon went viral, being widely quoted and printed across the country. It continues to be seen on greeting cards, T-shirts, mugs, plaques, and bumper stickers. She recounted how her now-famous quote has taken on a life of its own in an October 2007 interview: \"It was a weird escape into popular culture. I got constant e-mails about it, and I thought it was humorous. Then I started looking at where it was coming from. Once I turned up as a character in a novel—and a tennis star from India wore the T-shirt at Wimbledon. It seemed like a teaching moment—and so I wrote a book using the title.\" \"Well-Behaved Women\" examines the ways in which women shaped history, citing examples from the lives of Rosa Parks, Christine de Pizan, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Harriet Tubman, and Virginia Woolf.\n\"A Midwife's Tale\" examines the life of Northern New England midwife Martha Ballard, and provides a vivid examination of ordinary life in the early American republic, including the role of women in the household and local market economy, the nature of marriage and sexual relations, aspects of medical practice, and the prevalence of violence and crime.\n\nUlrich's revelatory history was honored with the Pulitzer Prize. \"A Midwife's Tale\" also received the Bancroft Prize, the John H. Dunning Prize, the Joan Kelly Memorial Prize, the Berkshire Conference of Women Historians Book Prize, the Society for Historians of the Early Republic Book Prize, the William Henry Welch Medal of the American Association for the History of Medicine, and the New England Historical Association Award. \"A Midwife's Tale\" was later developed into a documentary film for the PBS series \"American Experience\", with Ulrich serving as a consultant, script collaborator, and narrator. The book also helped her secure a \"Genius Grant\" from the MacArthur Fellows Program.\n\nThe book became a landmark in women's labor history since it provides scholars with rich insights into the life of a lay American rural healer around 1800. It rests not on the observations of outsiders, but on the words of the woman herself. At first glance, Ballard's encoded, repetitive, and quotidian diary often appears trivial, but as Ulrich found, \"it is in the very dailiness, the exhaustive, repetitious dailiness, that the real power of Martha Ballard's book lies... For her, living was to be measured in doing.\" By knitting together \"ordinary\" sources to produce a meaningful, extraordinary socio-cultural narrative, Ulrich shows how a skilled practitioner functioned within the interstices of the private and public spheres.\n\n\"A Midwife's Tale\" was not only methodologically influential for scholars, but also theoretically important. By showing clearly the economic contributions that midwives made to their households and local communities, and demonstrating the organizational skill of multitasking as a source of female empowerment, the book revises the understanding of prescribed gender roles. While \"A Midwife's Tale\" is obviously limited in terms of time (1785–1812) and place (rural Maine), it has attracted sustained attention of historians—especially those interested in gender relations and wage-earning, the economic value of domestic labor, and women's work before industrialization.\n\nIn January 2017, Ulrich's book \"A House Full of Females: Plural Marriage and Women's Rights in Early Mormonism,\" was released. This text explores Mormon women living in Utah during the 19th century who had entered into plural marriages. Ulrich argues that this system was both complicated and empowering for the women in these relationships.\n\nUlrich self-identifies as an active feminist and Mormon, and has written about her experiences. She also co-edited (with Emma Lou Thayne) \"All God's Critters Got a Place in the Choir\", a collection of essays about the lives of Mormon women. Ulrich was a founding member of the Exponent II, an independent publication on the experience of Mormon women.\n\nIn late 1992, Brigham Young University's board of trustees vetoed without comment a BYU proposal to invite Ulrich to address the annual BYU Women's Conference. Ulrich did give addresses at BYU in 2004 and 2006.\n\nAt Harvard, Ulrich is actively involved in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. She is the adviser for the undergraduate Latter-day Saint Student Association, the Mormon campus club, and teaches an Institute of Religion class.\n\nPersonal life\n\nWhile she was an undergraduate student, she married Gael Ulrich, now emeritus professor of chemical engineering at the University of New Hampshire. Together they had five children: Karl (b. 1960), Melinda (b. 1963), Nathan (b. 1964), Thatcher (b. 1969), and Amy (b. 1975).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15450514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15450514", "title": "Leticia de Oyuela", "text": "Leticia de Oyuela\n\nIrma Leticia Silva de Oyuela (20 August 1935, Tegucigalpa – January 23, 2008) was a Honduran historian.\n\nAmong her many scholarly works, she wrote the book \"El Naif en Honduras\".\n"}
{"id": "2853901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2853901", "title": "List of early Lithuanian dukes", "text": "List of early Lithuanian dukes\n\nEarly dukes of Lithuania (including Samogitia) reigned before Lithuanians were unified by Mindaugas into a state, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. While the Palemonids legend provides genealogy from the 10th century, only few dukes were mentioned by contemporary historical sources. All of them were mentioned in written sources the 13th century. Data about them is extremely scarce and is usually limited to few brief sentences. The primary sources are the Chronicle of Henry of Livonia and Hypatian Codex.\n\n\nOf the dukes who signed the peace treaty, only four are mentioned in other written sources: Mindaugas, who went on to become the Grand Duke of Lithuania and was crowned as King of Lithuania in 1253, Vykintas, leader of anti-Mindaugas coalition during the civil war in 1248–1251, Bikšys and Ligeikis, both identified as Mindaugas relatives and nobles, mentioned in a document, dated 1260 and sometimes considered a forgery.\n\n"}
{"id": "48471047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48471047", "title": "List of presidents of the Royal Numismatic Society", "text": "List of presidents of the Royal Numismatic Society\n\nThis is a list of the presidents of the Royal Numismatic Society.\n"}
{"id": "4370107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4370107", "title": "Lord Strange's Men", "text": "Lord Strange's Men\n\nLord Strange's Men was an Elizabethan playing company, comprising retainers of the household of Ferdinando Stanley, Lord Strange (pronounced \"strang\"). They are best known in their final phase of activity in the late 1580s and early 1590s. After 25 September 1593, they were known as the Earl of Derby's Men, that being the date of Stanley's accession to his father's title.\n\nEarly iterations of the company were active in the 1560s and 1570s; Henry Stanley, 4th Earl of Derby, kept players both before and after his accession to the title in 1572. A later iteration was active throughout the 1580s, playing at Court in 1580-1, 1583, and 1585-6. And \"active\" was the key word: they were a troupe of acrobats, led by John Symons \"the Tumbler.\" In 1588 the company went through a re-organization: Symons and the other tumblers left for a competing troupe, Queen Elizabeth's Men. Lord Strange's became a company more devoted to acting; William Kempe, Thomas Pope, and George Bryan, all future Lord Chamberlain's Men, may have joined the company at this time. \n\nIn November 1589, the Lord Mayor of London ordered the company not to stage any performances within the city. In response, Strange's Men immediately went to the Cross Keys Inn to mount a performance.\n\nLord Strange's Men were associated with the Lord Admiral's Men from 1590 to 1594; in the winter of 1591 Strange's Men gave six performances at Court. They were also performing at The Theatre, and perhaps at the Curtain as well. The \"plot\" of one of their plays, \"The Seven Deadly Sins\", survives from this era, with a cast list that includes Richard Burbage, William Sly, Richard Cowley, and Augustine Phillips, more Lord Chamberlain's Men of the future.\n\nBetween February and June 1592 they were at Henslowe's Rose Theatre, where they acted a repertory of 23 plays that included one or more of Shakespeare's \"Henry VI\" trilogy. It has been argued that during that season William Shakespeare was a member of the company and had a hand in one of their plays, \"A Knack to Know a Knave.\" They gave three more Court performances in the winter of 1592-3; but on 28 January 1593 bubonic plague broke out again in London, an outbreak so severe that it would disrupt the entire framework of professional theatre in the capital. A combination of Strange's and Admiral's actors, led by Edward Alleyn, toured the countryside in 1593-4, visiting Kent, Southampton, Bath, Bristol, Shrewsbury, and perhaps to York and Chester before turning south again to Leicester and Coventry. \n\nWhen Ferdinando Stanley died in April 1594, the company was still touring, in East Anglia and Hampshire. They returned to London in June, after the plague had abated. The company endured a radical re-organization at this time; many members left to join a new version of another troupe, under the patronage in Lord Hunsdon, the Lord Chamberlain — which became famous as the company of William Shakespeare and Richard Burbage, the Lord Chamberlain's Men.\n\nA company of actors continued to function as Derby's Men, under the patronage of the sixth Earl; this organization probably included men who did not make the move to the Chamberlain's company. Derby's Men concentrated on touring the provincial towns outside London for the remainder of their career, down to 1618 — though they enjoyed one flurry of London activity under the leadership of Robert Browne around the turn of the century, including four performances at Court in 1600 and 1601.\n\n"}
{"id": "762963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762963", "title": "Louis-Sébastien Le Nain de Tillemont", "text": "Louis-Sébastien Le Nain de Tillemont\n\nLouis-Sébastien Le Nain de Tillemont (30 November 1637 – 10 January 1698) was a French ecclesiastical historian.\n\nHe was born in Paris into a wealthy Jansenist family, and was educated at the \"Petites écoles\" of Port-Royal, where his historical interests were formed and encouraged. At the age of twenty, he began his two monumental works, the \"Mémoires pour servir à l'histoire ecclésiastique des six premiers siècles\" and the \"Histoire des empereurs et autres princes qui ont régné pendant les six premiers siècles de l'Église\". The first is a history of the first six centuries of the Christian Church. The second is a history of the Roman emperors during the same period.\n\nTillemont became a priest at the age of thirty-nine and settled at Port-Royal. When Port-Royal was dissolved in 1679, he moved to his family estate at Tillemont, where he spent the rest of his life, pursuing his historical work with great devotion. His \"Histoire\" began to issue from the press in 1690 and his \"Mémoires\" in 1693. The publication of both works was not complete at the time of his death. The final volumes were completed and published posthumously by his secretary Michel Tronchay. Tronchay also published a biography of Tillemont in 1706 titled \"Idee de la vie et de l'esprit de M. L. de Tillemont\".\n\nTillemont is cited frequently by Gibbon in his \"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\". \nHis works were among the first to provide critical surveys of the full range of source material. \nHis prose style is considered dry, but he had a reputation for accuracy, detail and conscientiousness. His work was attacked on a large scale by Honoratus a Sancta Maria in his \"Réflexions sur les règles et l'usage de la critique\", three volumes (1712-1720).\n\n"}
{"id": "43364508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43364508", "title": "Marián Hronský", "text": "Marián Hronský\n\nDr. Marián Hronský, DrSc. (4 August 1940 in Nová Baňa, Žarnovica District – 3 June 2012) was a Slovak historian. After graduating from Charles University in Prague, he worked at the Military History Institute in Bratislava and in the Institute of Political Science of SAS. In 2012, he received (in memoriam) the \"Milan Hodža Award\" for his scientific activities in the research of the personalities of Slovak politics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11868579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11868579", "title": "Mary Maverick", "text": "Mary Maverick\n\nMary Ann Adams Maverick (March 16, 1818 – February 24, 1898), was an early Texas pioneer and author of memoirs which form an important source of information about daily life in and around San Antonio during the Republic of Texas period through the American Civil War.\n\n\"Note: There is some ambiguity here as far as her father's name: William or Robert? Was it her father or a brother/uncle Robert Adams who fought at the Battle of New Orleans? A brother named William is also mentioned. – 07 Sept 2015\"\n\nMary Ann Adams was born in Tuscaloosa County, Alabama, to William Lewis Adams, a lawyer, and Agatha Strother (Lewis) Adams. Her maternal grandmother was a cousin of James Madison, while her father's family had founded Lynchburg, Virginia. Her parents lived along the James River in Virginia, where her father exported flour and tobacco. During the War of 1812 her father left Virginia for what is now Alabama and bought a plantation near the site of Tuscaloosa. While purchasing supplies in Mobile, Robert Adams answered Andrew Jackson's call for volunteers to help defend New Orleans and raised a company which he led at the Battle of New Orleans. In 1816, her mother came to live permanently in Alabama as well.\n\nIn Alabama, Robert Adams practiced law, and in 1827 he served as an agent of U.S. Treasury Department. He died in June 1827, leaving his widow to raise their six surviving children, all under the age of 12. Mary attended boarding school in Tuscaloosa to meet her father's wish that his children be appropriately educated.\n\nOn August 4, 1836, Mary Adams married Samuel Augustus Maverick, a Yale graduate who had been the Alamo garrison's delegate to the Convention of 1836 declaring Texas' independence from Mexico. Sam Maverick sold his Alabama plantation at the beginning of 1837, and Mary Maverick accompanied her husband to New Orleans so that he could conduct business and be closer to news of Texas. While she was in New Orleans, her brother William Adams left for Texas. In March 1837, she and her husband visited his father in South Carolina, where they refused the elder Maverick's gift of his plantation. On May 14, 1837, she gave birth to her first child, Samuel Maverick, Jr. in South Carolina.\n\nIn October 1837, Mary Maverick, her brother, son, and seven slaves left South Carolina. After a brief stop in Tuscaloosa, they left for the Republic of Texas on December 7, accompanied by her fifteen-year-old brother, Robert Adams, and three additional slaves. The party crossed into Texas near New Year's Day 1838. On February 4, they rented rooms at the home of George Sutherland, and for four months Maverick remained there while her husband continued on to San Antonio.\n\nMaverick and the rest of her party reached San Antonio on June 15, 1838. In her memoirs, she claims to have been the first U.S.-born female to settle in San Antonio, but letters to her mother mentioned another American lady, married to an Irishman, who died shortly after the Mavericks arrived. The family rented rooms at the same home where her brother William resided.\n\nShortly after moving into a new home along the San Antonio River, Maverick gave birth to her second child, Lewis Antonio Maverick, who became the first Anglo-American child to be born in and grow up in San Antonio. During the next few years, more Anglo families moved to San Antonio. Her brothers returned to Alabama, but William came back to Texas in 1839 with another brother, Andrew, to begin farming. Mary was often left alone, as her husband spent months traveling for business or combing the Texas wilderness on surveying missions.\n\nThe Mavericks participated in the so-called Council House Fight on March 19, 1840 when half of a peace-delegation of sixty-five Comanches, consisting of men, women and children, was slaughtered and the other half taken hostage. The Comanche delegation arrived in San Antonio, a traditional safe haven for peace talks, to negotiate a peace treaty and a demarcation line and bargain for the ransom of white captives. The army had ordered prior to the meeting that, if not all Anglo-Texans believed to be Comanche captives at that time were returned at the beginning of the talks, all the negotiators of the band be held until the captives were returned, and then the ransom would be paid. Maverick and a female neighbor had been watching several Indian children playing when they heard gunfire within the council house and saw Indians fleeing from the building. She alerted her husband and brother Andrew, and, while Samuel Maverick rushed outside to chase down the Indians, Maverick and Andrew hurried outside to find the children. They discovered three of the fugitive Indians in the back yard, while their slave cook, Jinny, tried to protect the two Maverick children and her own four children by threatening the Indians with a large rock. Andrew Adams shot two of the three Indians and joined the main fight. Maverick hid her children in the house and watched the battle through the windows. At one point she was curious enough to go outside for a closer look, but was ordered to return indoors by a soldier. The skirmish continued until all of the Indians were dead or captured. In her diary, Maverick wrote that \"'All [Indians] had a chance to surrender ... and every one who offered or agreed to give up was taken prisoner and protected.'\"\n\nTwo  days after the battle, Samuel Maverick again left his wife and children alone, under the protection of her two brothers. During his business trip, Sam sold many of his lands in South Carolina and Alabama, and bought two years worth of provisions, which he had shipped to Linville, Texas. Before he could escort the goods on to San Antonio, Linville was raided by a party led by Buffalo Hump, during the Great Raid of 1840, and all of their provisions were destroyed.\n\nIn December 1840, Maverick's aunt and uncle, John and Ann Bradley, arrived in Texas from Alabama along with their young children. Happy to be surrounded by family again, Maverick expanded her own family in April 1841 with the birth of her daughter Agatha. Later that year, Maverick's mother, Agatha Adams, planned a journey to visit them and to consider settling in Texas. She fell ill days before she was scheduled to leave, however, and died on October 2.\n\nThe citizens of San Antonio received word in February 1842 that Mexican president Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna was again sending troops into Texas, which Mexico still did not recognize as a separate country. The Mavericks left some of their possessions with Mexican neighbors and joined their other Anglo neighbors in the Runaway of '42. With her brothers William and Andrew, Maverick and her immediate family travelled east, the first time Maverick had left San Antonio since her arrival. For several days, she and the children boarded with a rancher outside of Seguin while her husband and brothers returned to San Antonio to fight. On March 6, the sixth anniversary of the fall of the Alamo, Maverick received word that San Antonio had fallen to Santa Anna. She worried about her men for several days until they appeared, having turned back before reaching San Antonio. The Mavericks moved on to Gonzales, where they squatted in a house left empty when its residents had fled in the Runaway.\n\nThe men accompanied Texas army troops to retake San Antonio, and the Mexican army retreated without a fight, although they caused a great deal of damage to the homes of American citizens. Samuel Maverick returned to his wife and moved her to LaGrange so that she would be farther from the threat of Indian attacks. On April 30 he left Maverick alone there while he returned to Alabama to get her younger sister, Elizabeth, who had been living as a boarder since her mother died the previous year.\n\nSamuel Maverick returned to San Antonio without his family in late August 1842 to argue a case before the district court. The Mexican army, under General Adrian Woll, surrounded San Antonio and captured the small number of Anglo-American men in the city. On September 15, Samuel Maverick and his countrymen were forced to march toward Mexico. Mary Maverick's brothers participated in the Battle of the Salado on September 18, where their company ambushed some of the Mexican soldiers, killing 60 of them. Her uncle John Bradley joined another company, and Maverick sent her slave Griffin to go with him. She instructed Griffin to pose as a runaway slave bound for Mexico in the hope that he would be able to help free Samuel Maverick. As an extra assurance, she gave Griffin funds that could be used to ransom back her husband. This band of Texans was surprised by a Mexican cavalry detachment. Griffin was killed in the battle, and Bradley was taken captive and marched to join Samuel Maverick and the other prisoners. Maverick continued to receive letters from her husband during his captivity, so that she could be comforted that he was still alive.\n\nMary Maverick bore ten children over a span of 21 years. Four died of illness before the age of eight, which led Mary to seek solace in the spiritualism which was increasingly popular in mid-19th-century America. As her surviving children grew up, she became active in the public sphere. During the Civil War, while four of her sons served in the Confederate States Army, she was active in San Antonio relief efforts. Her memoirs relate her attempts to revive the then-dying art of homespun cloth production to supply the needs of the Confederate cause. A devout Episcopalian, she was instrumental in establishing St. Mark's Church in San Antonio and served as president of the Ladies' Parish Aid Society.\n\nAfter Sam's death in 1870, as San Antonio grew, Mary Maverick made efforts to see that the pioneer past was not forgotten. She was a prominent member of the San Antonio Historical Society and the Daughters of the Republic of Texas. She helped promote the annual Battle of Flowers celebration, and devoted effort to the restoration and preservation of the Alamo as an historic site.\n\nHer watercolor sketch of the Alamo, completed during her first residence in San Antonio, is one of the earliest-known depictions after the battle. Although she did not herself immigrate to Texas until two years after the fall of the Alamo, in 1889 she wrote a brief account of the battle based on the recollections of witnesses. She died on February 24, 1898, and was buried beside her husband at San Antonio City Cemetery Number 1.\n\nThroughout her life, Mary had kept diaries of her experiences. In 1895, with the help of her son George Madison Maverick, she published these as her memoirs. They provide an engrossing and vivid picture of life on the Texas frontier and mid-19th-century San Antonio, including household management, child-rearing and family life, medical practices, and social and political observations. Mary Maverick's writings, in particular her eyewitness account of the Council House Fight in San Antonio in 1840, are often cited in studies of Texas pioneer life.\n\nIn particular, she claimed that Matilda Lockhart, the white captive who was returned by the Comanches to white authorities on that day, had been beaten, raped and had suffered burns to her body. Allegedly, her face was severely disfigured, with her nose entirely burned away, a detail which has been commonly included in Texas history descriptions of the incident since the publications of the Maverick memoirs in 1895.\n\nReports of abuse are, however, conspicuously missing in primary documents authored by eyewitnesses immediately after the event. Neither Col. Hugh McLeod mentioned any abuse in his report of March 20, 1840 (commenting on the intelligence of the girl but nothing like a missing nose), nor any other Texas officials at the time nor Matilda Lockhart's own sister-in-law, who was in San Antonio, in a letter written to her own mother shortly after the release. Anderson writes: \"While published in the 1890s, this description has been used by historians to claim that the massacre came about as a result of the justifiable rage of Texas men. Yet none of the Texas officials claimed this to be the case at the time; evidence of abuse is conspicuously missing in the primary documents. Maverick may have exaggerated Lockhart's condition because of the growing criticism of Texas in the American and European Press. The most significant source on Matilda's condition is a brief statement made in a letter by her sister-in-law, Catherine Lockhart, who was in San Antonio. Catherine describes Matilda's release but says nothing of abuse.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56709839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56709839", "title": "Matthew Smith Anderson", "text": "Matthew Smith Anderson\n\nMatthew Smith Anderson (1922-2006) was professor emeritus of international history at the London School of Economics.\n\n"}
{"id": "39632039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39632039", "title": "Matthäus Schwarz", "text": "Matthäus Schwarz\n\nMatthäus Schwarz (19 February 1497 - c.1574) was a German accountant, best known for compiling his \"Klaidungsbüchlein\" or \"Trachtenbuch\" (usually translated as \"Book of Clothes\"), a book cataloguing the clothing that he wore between 1520 and 1560. The book has been described as \"the world's first fashion book\".\n\nSchwarz was born in Augsburg, the son of Ulrich Schwartz the Younger, a wine merchant. His family were originally carpenters from Rettenbergen in Bavaria, but moved to Augsburg in the 15th century. His grandfather, also Ulrich Schwarz, became master of the carpenters' guild in Augsburg, and served as mayor of Augsburg from 1469 to 1477, but fell from power after disputes with the leading families in the city and was executed in 1478.\n\nSchwartz was educated in Augsburg and Heidenheim. His mother died in 1502. His Latin was not good enough for him to emulate his brother by becoming a monk, so he worked for his father and then became a merchant's apprentice in Milan and Venice, where he learned accounting techniques.\n\nHe began to work for the wealthy Augsburg merchant Jakob Fugger in 1516, and wrote manuscript on accounting entitled \"Dreierlay Buchhaltung\" (three-fold bookkeeping) in 1518. The work remained unpublished but was rewritten by Schwartz in 1550 and eventually published in the early 20th century. Fugger, known as Fugger of the Lily or Fugger the Rich, was a member of the Fugger family of bankers and merchants, who accumulated great wealth as banker for the Habsburg dynasty before his death in 1525. Fugger bequeathed assets worth over 2 million guilders to his nephew, Anton Fugger, for whom Schwartz also worked.\n\nSchwartz's father died in 1519. The same year, Schwartz started an autobiography, \"De Wellt lauff\" (\"The way of the world\"), which has not survived.\n\nSchwarz was fascinated by clothing, spent a large part of his income on clothes, and documented his appearance and outfits throughout his adult life. He would have needed a servant to enable him to dress. This was from a time in history when it was in recent times generally thought that interest in fashion and sumptuous dressing was for the high ranks of society and aristocracy only, and when sumptuary laws stipulated the dress and jewellery appropriate for a person's social rank and station; Schwarz dressed carefully not to break the law, for example wearing fancy sleeves if fancy hose were forbidden.\n\nFrom 1520 to 1560, he commissioned artists to make accurate watercolour paintings of him on parchment, showing him in his fashionable dress, possibly as an appendix to his autobiography. The works includes 36 images by Narziss Renner in 1520 which reconstruct Schwartz's life to that point, from his birth, as an infant, schoolboy, and apprentice. Schwartz commissioned 101 more images over the next 40 years, mostly by Renner until 1536 and then by artists from the studio of Christoph Amberger. The portraits include front and rear nude portraits of Schwartz in 1526 aged 29 (when he had become \"fat and large\" - some of the earliest fully naked male images in Northern European art), and his recovery from a stroke aged 52, as well as pictures of his festive clothing for the visit of Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor for the Diet of Augsburg in 1518, for Anton Fugger's wedding in 1527, and for a visit of the Ferdinand, Duke of Austria in 1530, the sombre black mourning robes for his father's death in 1519, and ending with a picture of Schwartz as an old man mourning the death of Anton Fugger in 1560. Schwartz added manuscript comments to the images explaining when each outfit was worn, and his Latin motto, \"Omne quare suum quia\" (every because has a why).\n\nSchwartz had the completed work was bound into a book chronicling his life that he called his \"Klaidungsbüchlein\" (literally, \"clothing booklet\"), but also known now as his \"Trachtenbuch\" (\"Book of Clothes\"). Parallels can be drawn with the Emperor Maximilian's heavily illustrated semi-autobiographical works, \"Theuerdank\", \"Weisskunig\" and \"Freydal\". Schwartz encouraged his son to continue the project, but the latter soon lost interest. Schwartz has been nicknamed \"Kleidernarr\" (literally \"clothes-fool\"), although Groebner speculates that the meticulous cataloguing of his clothing may be an extension of his accountant's desire to document everything.\n\nThe original book of clothes is conserved by the Herzog Anton Ulrich Museum in Braunschweig. There are also two copies, made in 1740, one in the Bibliothèque nationale in Paris and the other in the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Bibliothek in Hanover. A detailed account of the work was published by art historian August Fink in \"Die Schwarz'schen Trachtenbücher\" (Berlin, 1963).\n\nHe married Barbara Mangold in 1538. A pair of portraits of Schwartz and his wife in 1542 by Christoph Amberger are held by the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum and the Kisters Collection respectively.\n\nHe was ennobled by Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor in 1541, and died in Augsburg in c.1574.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3442077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3442077", "title": "Max Farrand", "text": "Max Farrand\n\nMax Farrand (March 29, 1869 – June 17, 1945) was an American historian, who taught at several universities and was the first director of the Huntington Library.\n\nHe was born in Newark, New Jersey, United States. He graduated from Princeton (A. B., 1892; Ph.D., 1896).\n\nFarrand taught at Wesleyan University, then after several years at Stanford University, and a year at Cornell University, he became a professor of history at Yale University (1908-1925). His particular area of interest and expertise was the Founding Fathers, the organization of the United States after the American Revolutionary War. Farrand was also director of the Commonwealth Fund, founded in 1918 by Anna M. Harkness, widow of Stephen V. Harkness investor in Standard Oil, who wanted to “do something for the welfare of mankind.”\n\nMax Farrand also assisted philanthropist Henry E. Huntington to establish the Huntington Library, which is located on the historic 'Rancho Huerta de Cuati' in San Marino near Pasadena, California. After Huntington's death in 1927, Farrand became the library's first director, serving until 1941.\n\nProfessor Farrand made many contributions to historical publications during his lifetime, as well as wrote the following books:\n\nIn 1940, Farrand, as President of the American Historical Society delivered an address describing his views on history and the war then beginning, which he saw as a clash of civilizations.\n\nMax Farrand's final work, an examination of the letters of Benjamin Franklin (removing transcription errors of its first editor, John Bigelow), was published posthumously.\n\nIn 1913, while chairman of the history department at Yale University, Farrand married the renowned landscape architect Beatrix Farrand, the niece of the novelist and socialite Edith Wharton. They remodeled her family's home, Reef Point Estate in Bar Harbor on Mount Desert Island in Maine, where they spent summers while Farrand held positions in California and lived in Montecito near Santa Barbara, California. They had no children. His brother was the researcher Livingston Farrand.\n\nThe Farrands retired to Reef Point estate in Bar Harbor, which they planned to establish as an independent and self-perpetuating educational corporation. Max Farrand died there in 1945 and Beatrix Farrand established the foundation as they had planned. However, she came to realize in 1955, after a wildfire destroyed part of those gardens, that their plan for the foundation was impractical. She demolished the main house and uprooted the garden (John D. Rockefeller purchasing the azaleas for his own Asticou Azalea Garden in Northeast Harbor, Maine where they continue to flower), donated their extensive library and herbarium specimens to the University of California at Berkeley where researchers could more readily access it than in Maine, and lived the final three years of her life at Garland Farm nearby.\n\nThe Farrands are buried at Woodlawn Cemetery in New York City.\n\nDuring the Bicentennial Celebrations, James Hutson, head of the Manuscripts Division of the Library of Congress, edited a revised edition of Farrand's four volume, The Records of the Federal Convention of 1787 (Yale University Press, 1976).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13352487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13352487", "title": "Menander of Ephesus", "text": "Menander of Ephesus\n\nMenander of Ephesus (; fl. c. early 2nd century BC) was the historian whose lost work on the history of Tyre was used by Josephus, who quotes Menander's list of kings of Tyre in his apologia for the Jews, \"Against Apion\" (1.18). \"This Menander wrote the Acts that were done both by the Greeks and Barbarians, under every one of the Tyrian kings, and had taken much pains to learn their history out of their own records.\" All records having been lost, this second-hand report is the basis for the traditional king-list. Menander, living in a city with a considerable population of Hellenized Jews, also seems to have written on the history of the Jews, often cited by Josephus.\n\nThe only extant sources for the writing of Menander are citations of his work found in Josephus’s two works \"Antiquities of the Jews\" and \"Against Apion\", or in extracts from Josephus's works found in later writers. These later writers were Theophilus of Antioch, Eusebius of Caesarea, and George Syncellus. William Barnes lists the following sources that scholars use to reconstruct the text of Menander:\n\nThe exact title borne by Menander's lost work is not made clear by Josephus, who gives the following descriptions when he cites Menander: “Menander also, one who translated the Tyrian archives out of the dialect of the Phoenicians into the Greek language” (\"Ant\". 8.5.3). “Menanderwhen he wrote his Chronology, and translated the Archives of Tyre into the Greek language” \"Ant\". 9.14.2. “Menander wrote the Acts that were done both by the Greeks and Barbarians, under every one of the Tyrian Kings” (\"Against Apion\" 1.18).\n\nJosephus only cited Menander as a means to authenticate themes of his own writings. One such theme was the antiquity of the Jewish people, for which Josephus summoned Menander and several other non-Jewish historians to support his case. In terms of chronology, the earliest event to which Josephus calls Menander as his witness is the reign of Solomon. In \"Ant.\" 8.5.3, Josephus describes the help that Hiram, king of Tyre, provided for the building of Solomon's Temple. A description of Hiram's building projects in Tyre is then quoted from Menander in order to show the historicity of the Hiram mentioned in the Bible. A few other details about Hiram are added, including an exchange of riddles between Solomon and Hiram. In \"Ant.\" 8.13.2, the drought in Israel in the days of Elijah (1 Kings 17 and 18) is equated, by Josephus, with a drought that Menander said occurred in the days of Ethbaal (Ithobaal I, 878-847 BC), king of the Tyrians. In \"Ant.\" 9.14.2, after relating that Shalmaneser V was responsible for the destruction of Samaria (2 Kings 17:3-6), Menander is cited as bearing witness to the existence of Shalmaneser. Here Menander says that the king of Tyre during this time was named Eluleus, who reigned 36 years, and who successfully endured a siege of five years started by Shalmaneser. \n\nTo historians, the most interesting portion of Menander's writing that has been preserved in found in \"Against Apion\" 1.18. Here Josephus again demonstrates the antiquity of his nation, as attested by historians outside his own national tradition. Bringing up Solomon and his contemporary Hiram, Josephus cites Menander's list of the kings of Tyre from Abibalus (\"Abibaal\"), father of Hiram, down to Pygmalion, with the years of reign of each king, as well as the years of their life. For Pygmalion, it is related that “he lived fifty-eight years and reigned forty-seven. It was in the seventh year of his reign that his sister took flight, and built the city of Carthage in Libya.\" After ending his quotation from Menander with this sentence, Josephus summarizes Menander’s list of kings as follows:\nThe whole period from the accession of Hirom (Hiram) to the foundation of Carthage thus amounts to 155 years and eight months; and, since the temple at Jerusalem was built in the twelfth year of King Hirom's reign, 143 years and eight months elapsed between the erection of the temple and the foundation of Carthage.\n\nFor a discussion of the importance of this passage in establishing the chronology of the kings of Tyre, see below, and also the Pygmalion and Hiram articles.\n\nSome modern historians have considered Josephus’s ostensible citations of Menander from a literary-analysis standpoint. The important question that they were addressing was whether Josephus’s quotations were just that, or were another example of his putting his own ideas and words into someone else’s mouth (pen). Josephus was frequently bold to do just this, notably in cases such as when a general, addressing his troops, provided an opportunity for Josephus to display his own eloquence. However, three lines of evidence indicate that this was not the case with the texts purporting to come from Menander. The first line of evidence is literary.\n\nDius [another Hellenistic historian cited by Josephus] calls Solomon “the sovereign of Jerusalem” (\"ho turannos Ierosolumon\") while Menander refers to him as “the king of Jerusalem” (\"ho Ierosolumon basileus\"). This appellation is clear proof of the Tyrian source of these passages, for the kings of the Phoenician coast, who ruled principally over one city, looked upon Solomon as a monarch of a city, like themselves; nor did Josephus correct this “flaw”, even in an account where he endeavors to exalt the greatness of Solomon. Great weight must be attached to the testimony of Dius and Menander as cited by Josephus, for these are the only mentions of Solomon’s name in a foreign source—perhaps a Tyrian source that stems from the time of Solomon himself!\n\nThe author of this passage, Jacob Katzenstein, makes two other comments that suggest that Josephus was not merely putting forth his own writing and ideas under Menander's name:\nThe regnal years and the life-spans of the rulers are not given in round numbers, so there is no reason to doubt the veracity of this tradition. Moreover, Josephus does not digress from listing the kings of Tyre even to comment on Ethbaal (Ithobal), the father-in-law of Ahab, although he is mentioned in the Bible.\n\nCommenting further on the form in which Josephus presents the years of the kings in the \"Against Apion\" passage, William Barnes writes:\n\nThe literary conventions mentioned by these historians have therefore led them to the position that Menander’s actual words, not just Josephus’s own ideas, are to be found in the various texts where Josephus says he is citing Menander.\n\nJosephus’s citations of Menander contain references to Shalmaneser (V), Sennacherib, and Esarhaddon, kings of Assyria that are well known both from Biblical texts and also from numerous Assyrian inscriptions. More important, however, for the question of the historicity of the Menander texts is his mention of kings who were not so famous, especially those for whom there had been no evidence outside Menander until fairly recent times. \n\nThese inscriptional evidences for lesser-known kings not mentioned in the Hebrew Bible have therefore been taken as lending credence to Menander’s writings. For each of them, the time frame that Menander assigns to them is in agreement with the time assigned to their inscriptional evidence by modern historians.\n\nAs cited above from \"Ant\". 1.18, Menander gave 155 years from the first year of Hiram's reign until the seventh year of Pygmalion, at which time Pygmalion's sister Dido, also known as Elissa, fled from Tyre, after which she founded Carthage in North Africa. This reference in Menander is unique not only for its chronological correlation of the time between Hiram and Pygmalion, but also because virtually all texts of Josephus/Menander that have come down to us, including the citations of Josephus's work in other writers, have preserved this total of 143 years and eight months from the start of construction of Solomon's Temple, in the 12th year of the reign of Hiram (\"Against Apion\" 1.18/126), until Dido's flight. This is in contrast with the lengths of reign for the individual monarchs between Hiram and Pygmalion, for which there is considerable variance in the copies of the various texts. But the overall figure of 143 years has been preserved by a fortuitous circumstance: it is repeated in three instances in Josephus, and in one of these instances it is not given as simply 143 years, but as 155 years from the start of Hiram's reign until the time that construction began for the Temple, which was in Hiram's 12th year (\"Against Apion\" 1.17,18). This triple redundancy has preserved the total of years from Hiram to Dido as originally recorded, even though the various extracts of Menander found in Josephus, Eusebius, Syncellus, and Theodotion disagree in other matters, due to the error of copyists through the centuries of written transmission. Modern historians therefore have generally given considerable credibility to this figure, using it to measure back 155 years from the date for the founding of Carthage in order to arrive at the regnal years of Hiram.\n\nThe problem with this calculation, however, lay in determining which date to use for the founding of Carthage. Here, classical authors gave two years: 825 BC as given by Pompeius Trogus, or 814 BC as given by Timaeus. Although earlier historians generally preferred the 814 date, the publication of an inscription of Shalmaneser III relating the receipt of tribute from Ba’li-manzer of Tyre (apparently Baal-Eser II, grandfather of Pygmalion) in 841 BC has caused many scholars such as Frank M. Cross to favor the 825 date, because that date was consistent with the best texts of Menander for the reign lengths of Baal-Eser and his son Mattan I, whereas the 814 date was in conflict with these texts. Joachim Peñuela has argued that the 825 B.C. date of Pompeius Trogus and the 814 B.C. date of Timaeus and other writers are both correct when properly understood. Based on a citation from Strabo (17.3.14-15) plus a fragmentary ancient Greek text describing Dido’s various time-consuming activities after she left Tyre but before the people of North Africa granted her permission to build a city, Peñuela contends that eleven years elapsed between her flight and the foundation (or possibly, dedication) of the city, thus explaining the apparent discrepancy between Trogus and Timaeus in this matter. For a fuller discussion, see the Pygmalion article.\n\nAccepting that 825 BC was Pygmalion's seventh year and the ending point of the 155 years, Hiram's first year becomes 825 + 155 = 980 BC. His twelfth year, the year in which Temple construction began, would then be 968 BC. There is some slight uncertainty here because neither Josephus, Menander, or Pompeius Trogus, in the texts that have come down to us, relate which calendar they were using for reckoning the years: Roman, Macedonian, or Phoenician. But this consideration would not make a difference of more than a year or two, so that Barnes states,\n[F]or the present we may conclude quite confidently that the Tyrian king list of Menander as preserved in Josephus' \"Contra Apionem\" [Latin for \"Against Apion\"], 1:117-26, coupled with the dated reference in Shalmaneser's annals to the Tyrian king \"Ba'li-manzer\" and the date of Pompeius Trogus for the founding of Carthage, provide a firm external synchronism for biblical chronology, and particularly for the dating of the founding of Solomon's temple in 968 (the twelfth year of Hiram of Tyre), as well as the dating of Solomon's accession to 971. A variation of a year or two is possible, of course, especially in the light of our ignorance of Phoenician dating practices, but I seriously doubt that an error of more than two years either way is likely.\n\nFirst Kings 6:1 says that Temple construction began in the spring month of Ziv (Iyyar in the modern Jewish calendar) in the fourth year of the reign of Solomon. Assigning a date to this in modern terms depends on determining a date for the death of Solomon and the subsequent division of the kingdom. The date of the division of the kingdom was calculated by Edwin Thiele as occurring some time between the first of Nisan (roughly April) of 931 BC and the day before Nisan 1 of 930 BC. Thiele's logic in this matter was based on fixed dates for the presence of Ahab at the Battle of Qarqar in 853 BC and Jehu's tribute to Shalmaneser III in 841 BC. Thiele showed that when non-accession years were assumed for the northern kingdom of Israel and accession years were assumed for the southern kingdom (Judah), the regnal lengths of both kingdoms, as measured back from the Battle of Qarqar, produced the same result of 931 BC for the first year of the divided kingdom. Furthermore, the extensive cross-synchronisms between the two kingdoms for these 78 years all worked out exactly, giving extra support for the credibility of the Biblical records that allowed this calculation of 931/930 for the division of the kingdom. Thiele's logic in this matter has been acknowledged by a broad spectrum of historians of the Bible and the ancient Near East, and is accepted in the \"Cambridge Ancient History\" and in much of recent scholarship.\n\nThiele established that the northern kingdom of Judah measured its regnal years from the fall month of Tishri, the month in which Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, continues to be celebrated in modern times. Thiele's logic for determining the year of the division of the kingdom was built on reckoning in Nisan-based years, such as were used in the northern kingdom. Solomon's 40th or last year, then, since it was reckoned according to a Tishri-based year, could have begun either in Tishri of 932 or Tishri of 931 BC. Thiele assumed the latter, which led him into conflicts with the later reigns of Ahaziah and Athaliah that he never resolved. These conflicts disappear when it is assumed that Solomon's 40th year began in Tishri of 932. Leslie McFall, a foremost interpreter of Thiele's work, now accepts the results of a 2003 study by Rodger Young demonstrating that the Biblical data require that Solomon's last year began in Tishri of 932 BC instead of Tishri of 931 as given by Thiele. F. M. Cross and his student Wm. H. Barnes had also arrived at the date of 968/67 BC for the beginning of construction of the Temple, based solely on the Tyrian data of Menander. Unknown to Moore and Barnes, in the 1920s the Belgian scholar Valerius Coucke had likewise deduced that construction on Solomon's Temple began in 968/67 BC, based on the same Tyrian data used by Moore and Barnes, but also utilizing information from the Parian Marble and other classical sources to confirm and refine this date. \n\nThese chronological considerations date Solomon's fourth year as beginning in the fall of 968 BC, so that Temple construction began in the following spring, 967 BC. This is an additional demonstration of the trustworthiness that can be assigned to Josephus's citations of Menander, whose writings were used by the scholars listed above to date the beginning of Temple construction in 968/67 BC. In particular, it authenticates the 155 years measured back from Dido's flight to the start of the reign of Hiram, since the method of determining the date for the start of construction of Solomon's Temple as derived from Menander of Ephesus is \"wholly independent\" of the means of deriving this date from the Biblical data. For many modern scholars, the agreement of these two methods, exact within one year, has caused a new appreciation of the works of the ancient historian Menander, as preserved in the writings of Josephus.\n\n"}
{"id": "49264555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49264555", "title": "Michael Livingston", "text": "Michael Livingston\n\nMichael Livingston is a historian, a professor of medieval literature, and a historical fantasy novelist. His 2015 debut novel, \"The Shards of Heaven\", was followed by two sequels.\n\nOriginally from Colorado, Livingston has a B.A. in history from Baylor University, an M.A. in medieval studies from Western Michigan University, and both an M.A. and a Ph.D. in English from the University of Rochester. He has been an associate professor of English at The Citadel in Charleston, South Carolina since 2006. In his academic life he wrote numerous articles on the world of J.R.R. Tolkien, \"Beowulf\", Chaucer, James Joyce and Robert Jordan.\n\nLivingston has published multiple academic works. He said in 2015, \"one of the key bits of advice I ever received as a young novelist-to-be was to try to cut my teeth on writing short stories ... starting with short stories was vital to the development of my career\". Livingston's debut novel, \"The Shards of Heaven\", was published by Tor Books in November 2015. It is the first installment in a planned trilogy.\n\n\n\n\nLivingston's 2011 collection \"Angels Among Other Things\", self-published via e-book, consisted of nine short stories, including \"The Keeper Alone\" and \"At the End of Babel\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37373880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37373880", "title": "Minoru Kitamura", "text": "Minoru Kitamura\n\nHe was born in Kyoto Prefecture. He completed his bachelor's degree with a major in modern history at the Department of Humanities at Kyoto University in 1973. He initially dropped out of a doctorate program at the same university but in 1999 finally attained his doctorate in law. He worked as an assistant professor at Mie University before taking up his current post at the humanities department of Ritsumeikan University. He is also a member of the Japan Association for Nanjing Studies and an associate researcher at the Japan Institute for National Fundamentals.\n\nIn 2001 his book \"Nankin Jiken no Tankyū: Sono Jitsuzō wo Motomete\" was published by Bungeishunju, later translated into English as \"The Politics of Nanjing: An Impartial Investigation\". In the book he analyzes the Nanjing Massacre in an attempt to use historical methods to verify the \"war crime\" verdict pronounced at the Tokyo Trials and the Nanjing War Crimes Tribunal. Though on the one hand he confirms using newly discovered data the massacre of less than 20,000 Chinese POWs by the Japanese army, he concludes through analysis of many types of Chinese and Allied wartime propaganda that the perception of the war crimes tribunals, that a huge massacre of ordinary civilians had occurred reaching hundreds of thousands of deaths, was gradually invented after 1937. He undertook his research asking the question of how false perceptions about the massacre arose while seeking \"a return to the basics of historical research\".\n\nHe alleges that Harold Timperley, a journalist stationed in China who accused the Japanese army of committing atrocities in Nanking and in many other places in China, engaged in international propaganda work for the KMT Central Information Department from immediately after the outbreak of the Second Sino-Japanese War and published the edited volume \"What War Means\" with the KMT's financial support. Kitamura cites \"A Biographical Dictionary of Foreigners in China in the Modern Age\" written in 1981 by the Chinese Social Sciences Publishing Co., which states that \"in 1937, after the Marco Polo Bridge Incident, the KMT dispatched [Timperley] to Europe and the United States to engage in propaganda activities\", as well as the memoirs of Zeng Xubai, the head of the Kuomintang Central Information Department, who is quoted by Wang Lingxiao, the author of \"The KMT's News Administration Policy\", as saying, \"we decided that our first step would be to make payment to Timperley, and also, through his coordination, to Smythe, and commission both of them to write and publish two books for us as witnesses to the Nanking Massacre\".\n\nIn the January 2002 issue of \"Shokun!\" magazine Kitamura's thesis was reviewed favorably by Yoshiko Sakurai, Akira Suzuki, Mizuho Ishikawa, and Kenichi Ara.\n\nShudo Higashinakano bolstered Kitamura's argument in 2003 following the discovery of a top-secret document written in 1941 called \"An Overview of Propaganda Operations of the International Information Division of the Central Information Department of the Nationalist Party: from 1938 to April 1941\". The document lists Timperley's \"What War Means\" as a KMT propaganda book.\n\nThe August 2, 2002, edition of \"Shūkan Kin'yōbi\" presented the criticisms and negative opinions of Hisashi Inoue, Bob Tadashi Wakabayashi, Haruki Watanabe, and of Tokushi Kasahara, who labelled Kitamura as a \"denier of the Nanjing Massacre\".\n\nHisashi Watanabe criticized Kitamura's thesis in the official bulletin of the Association of Returnees from China, acknowledging problems with the testimony of Zeng Xubai who, for instance, mistakenly reminisced that Timperley was present in Japanese-occupied Nanjing, and also suggesting that Zeng Xubai did not explicitly state a working relationship between Timperley and the KMT Central Information Department, which was only Wang Lingxiao's interpretation. In addition, Hisashi Inoue has argued that Zeng Xubai's claim to have commissioned Timperley was an error. A document of the KMT Central Information Department from the Second Historical Archives of China in Nanjing instead reads \"We bought up as well as printed first-hand accounts of the Japanese army's massacre at Nanjing, one by Timperley himself and, by means of him, another by Smythe.\"\n\nBased on the essays written by Watanabe and Inoue, in 2007 Tokushi Kasahara concluded that \"The autobiography of Zeng Xubai is self-serving and unreliable\", and he furthermore pointed to Kitamura's greatest \"trick\" as his attempt to make his readers think that Timperley wrote the 1938 volume \"What War Means\" as a Chinese spy before he had actually become a KMT agent in 1939. He also attacked Kitamura on the matter that \"He doesn't have a clue about how legal trials work, and he thought that the judges wrote their verdict while quoting from Timperley's book without even being able to distinguish the difference between an indictment and a verdict\".\n\nKitamura's book \"Daiichiji Kokkyōgassaku no Kenkyū: Gendai Chūgoku wo Keisei Shita Nidai Seiryoku no Shutsugen\" (\"Research on the First United Front: The Emergence of the Two Great Powers that Constitute Modern China\") was published by Iwanami Shoten in 1998. He explains in detail the trends of the Chinese Nationalist Party and the Chinese Communist Party that have moved modern China, centering on the establishment, development, and collapse of the cooperative relationship which they forged over the course of the Nationalist Party's unification of China which was tentatively completed in 1928.\n\nIn his book \"Chūgoku wa Shakaishugi de Shiawase ni Natta no ka\" (\"Has Socialism Made China Happy?\"), published by the PHP Institute in 2005, he argues that \"The essence of the People's Republic of China is a feudalistic dynasty socialist in name only.\"\n\nIn 2008 the PHP Institute published a book he co-wrote with Lin Siyun entitled \"Nicchū Sensō: Sensō wo Nozonda Chūgoku, Nozomanakatta Nihon\", translated into English as \"The Reluctant Combatant: Japan and the Second Sino-Japanese War\". In the book Kitamura and Siyun contemplate various aspects of the Second Sino-Japanese War and seek to refute the standard assumptions that \"Japan waged a war of aggression and China was Japan's hapless victim\".\n\nKitamura is a translator of Chinese and English who had translated into Japanese the works by Jerome Chen, Stuart R. Schram, Ray Huang, and Li Changping.\n\n"}
{"id": "27476430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27476430", "title": "Mobile Guards", "text": "Mobile Guards\n\nThe Mobile Guards (Hebrew: \"Mishmarot Nayim\"; המשמר הנע), also known as the Manim from the initials of the Hebrew words, were a branch of the Notrim in Mandatory Palestine established at the beginning of the 1936–39 Arab revolt in Palestine to ambush Arab terrorists and to protect Jewish settlements and workers in their orchards and fields.\n\nThere were about 60 units comprising 400 men. The manim travelled in armoured vehicles.\n"}
{"id": "19268904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19268904", "title": "Norwegianization", "text": "Norwegianization\n\nNorwegianization (\"Fornorsking av samer\") was an official policy carried out by the Norwegian government directed at the Sami and later the Kven people of northern Norway to assimilate non-Norwegian-speaking native populations into an ethnically and culturally uniform Norwegian population.\n\nThe practice has roots in missionary programs of the 1700s, but formally began as official government policy in the late 1800s. Laws were passed prohibiting schooling in the Sami language, and restricting the rights of Sami speakers to purchase land. The laws were motivated by Norwegian nationalism and also by religious differences between Sami and the Norwegian population (Sami practicing animism and polytheism, while the Lutheran Church of Norway is the official state religion). As late as the 1950s, Sami people were widely regarded as mentally handicapped, thus justifying paternalist laws and policy: 'In the folk consensus from 1950, Samis were classified in the same category as the “mentally disabled” and “insane”.'\n\nThe Norwegianization policy was discontinued in the 1980s and reparations were made in the form of financial support for Sámediggi, the Sami Parliament of Norway, and other related programs. In 1997, the King of Norway, HM King Harald V made an official apology on behalf of the government to the Sami and Kven People because of this government program:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16864250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16864250", "title": "Paul-Louis Huvelin", "text": "Paul-Louis Huvelin\n\nPaul-Louis Huvelin (1873–1924), generally known as Paul Huvelin, was a French legal historian.\n\nHe was a specialist in the study of the earliest forms of Roman law.\n\nHuvelin spent almost all his career teaching in the law faculty of the University of Lyon which he joined in 1899. That year he made contact with the anthropologist Marcel Mauss and, as a result, gradually became involved with the group of pioneer French sociologists organised by Mauss' uncle Emile Durkheim. Huvelin, as a respected jurist, was welcomed into the Durkheim group and contributed regularly to Durkheim's famous L'Année Sociologique yearbook, from its sixth volume, published in 1906, until the series was suspended on the outbreak of the First World War. Huvelin made important contributions to the sociological study of the earliest forms of Western law. His imaginative if sometimes speculative scholarship explored links between magic and the emergence of ideas of private rights. He also tried to reformulate Durkheim's own ideas of law to make them more compatible with the instrumental legal outlook of jurists.\n\nTowards the end of his life he became involved with efforts to shore up waning French influence in the Middle East. As an offshoot of the Lyon law faculty's involvement with legal education in territories associated with France, he was instrumental in the founding of the law school of the Université Saint-Joseph in Beirut in 1913. In 1919 he led a mission to Syria to assess the growing threats to French interests in the region. He died after a short illness in 1924.\n\nA street in Beirut, is named after him, the Rue Huvelin.\n\n"}
{"id": "14082131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14082131", "title": "Pauper apprentice", "text": "Pauper apprentice\n\nPauper apprentices in England and Wales were the children of paupers who were bound out by the local parish overseers and churchwardens. Some had to travel long distances to serve in the factories of the industrial revolution, but the majority served their terms within a few miles of their homes.\n\n"}
{"id": "57791845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57791845", "title": "Peng Xinwei", "text": "Peng Xinwei\n\nPeng Xinwei 彭信威 (P'eng Hsin-wei) (1907-1967) was a Chinese economic historian, and author of \"A Monetary History of China\".\n\nPeng was born in Yantian, Xixiang, Jiangxi province, in 1907. After studying in Japan, he became a banker in Shanghai. His approach to economic history was influenced by the work of Carl Menger and Ludwig von Mises. Peng also taught at Fudan University in Shanghai. He died in 1967.\n\nThis pioneering work is acclaimed internationally.\n\n\"It is a classic in the field of Chinese monetary history and numismatics\" - Hans Ulrich Vogel, University of Tuebingen.\n\n\"His monumental two-volume work, \"A Monetary History of China\", is much more than a history of money. It is a comprehensive history of Chinese economic thought.\" - William N. Goetzmann\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27632749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27632749", "title": "Przegląd Tomistyczny", "text": "Przegląd Tomistyczny\n\nPrzegląd Tomistyczny: Filozofia - Teologia - Kultura Duchowa Średniowiecza (\"Thomistic Review: Philosophy - Theology - Spiritual Culture of the Middle Ages\") is a Polish journal published by Instytut Tomistyczny (Thomistic Institute) with its seat in the Dominican priory in Warsaw, Służew. This review publishes fruits of studies on intellectual and spiritual Christian tradition with a particular emphasis on Polish heritage, research on Middle Ages, and philosophical and theological quest in the tradition of Thomism.\n\nThis review was established in 1984 in continuity with \"Polski Przegląd Tomistyczny\" (\"Polish Thomistic Review\") founded by Dominican Friars in January 1939. The calamities of World War II and crooked history of post-war Poland made this 75 years gap inevitable.\n\n\"Przegląd Tomistyczny\" prints original articles and book reviews in Polish, English, French, German, and Italian. It publishes also editions of short historical Latin texts as well as Polish translations of short source texts.\n\n"}
{"id": "40088250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40088250", "title": "The Etymologicon", "text": "The Etymologicon\n\nThe Etymologicon: A Circular Stroll through the Hidden Connections of the English Language is a non-fiction book by Mark Forsyth published in 2011. The book presents the surprising origin of everyday words used in English, with each definition being thematically linked to the next to provide a flowing narrative unlike reference books on etymology. The content of the book was derived from the author's blog, \"The Inky Fool\".\n\nThe book was chosen and adapted in December 2011 by BBC Radio 4 for its Book of the Week series. After being featured on the radio, the book became the 2011 Christmas best-seller in the UK.\n"}
{"id": "17133514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17133514", "title": "Thomas Ellis (priest, died 1673)", "text": "Thomas Ellis (priest, died 1673)\n\nThomas Ellis (1625 – April 1673) was a Welsh clergyman and antiquarian.\n\nEllis was born at Ystumllyn, near Criccieth, Caernarvonshire. He matriculated at Jesus College, Oxford in 1640, graduating with a B.A. degree in 1644, and taking his M.A. degree in 1646. In 1648, when the Parliamentary visitors came to the college, and Ellis was asked whether he meant to submit to the authority of Parliament, he replied that he could not \"without the hazard of shipwrackinge of my soule\". He later submitted and was appointed Fellow of the College in 1649, although he was a critic of the Parliamentary-appointed Principal, Michael Roberts. Ellis kept his fellowship on the Restoration, becoming vice-principal under Francis Mansell. He hoped to be appointed to succeed Mansell in 1661, but the position went to Leoline Jenkins and Ellis then gave up his teaching duties (although he retained his fellowship until 1667).\n\nEllis had a particular interest in the study of Welsh history. However, his publication record was not without difficulty. Robert Vaughan of Hengwrt intended to publish a new edition of \"The Historie of Cambria\" by David Powel and asked Ellis to complete the work, using Vaughan's notes as well as his own. However, in 1663, after 128 sheets of the book had been printed, Ellis complained that all of Vaughan's material had been published in 1661 by Percie Enderbie and refused to continue. \"Memoirs of Owen Glendowr\", published in 1775, was attributed to Ellis, but Sir John Edward Lloyd later showed that Vaughan had written it, with Ellis simply being the copyist.\n\nIn 1665, King Charles II, his court and Parliament moved to Oxford to escape the plague, and Ellis's fortunes improved. He succeeded his kinsman John Ellis as rector of St Mary's, Dolgellau, Merionethshire. He died in April 1673 in Ystumllyn, and was buried there.\n"}
{"id": "45272037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45272037", "title": "Timeline of Sri Lankan history", "text": "Timeline of Sri Lankan history\n\nThis is a timeline of Sri Lankan history, comprising important & territorial changes and political & economic events in Sri Lanka and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Sri Lanka.\n"}
{"id": "1011679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1011679", "title": "Transferred intent", "text": "Transferred intent\n\nTransferred intent (or transferred malice in English law) is a legal doctrine that holds that, when the intention to harm one individual inadvertently causes a second person to be hurt instead, the perpetrator is still held responsible. To be held legally responsible under the law, usually the court must demonstrate that the person has criminal intent, that is, that the person knew another would be harmed by his or her actions and wanted this harm to occur. If a murderer intends to kill John, but accidentally kills George instead, the intent is transferred from John to George, and the killer is held to have had criminal intent.\n\nTransferred intent also applies to tort law. In tort law, there are generally five areas in which transferred intent is applicable: battery, assault, false imprisonment, trespass to land, and trespass to chattels. Generally, any \"intent\" to cause any one of these five torts which results in the completion of any of the five tortious acts will be considered an intentional act, even if the actual target of the tort is one other than the intended target of the original tort.\n\nSee cases of \"Carnes v. Thompson\", (1932) Supreme Court of Missouri. 48 S.W. 2d 903 and \"Bunyan v. Jordan\" (1937), 57 C.L.R. 1, 37 S.R.N.S.W. 119 for examples.\n\nIn US criminal law, transferred intent is sometimes explained by stating that \"the intent follows the bullet.\" That is, the intent to kill \"person A\" with a bullet will apply even when the bullet kills the unintended victim, \"person B\" (\"see mens rea\"). Thus, the \"intent\" is \"transferred\" between victims. However, intent only transfers between harms of a similar nature. For example, if the defendant shoots at \"Person A\" intending to kill \"A\" but the bullet misses and instead hits a vase, causing it to break, the defendant is not deemed to have intended to break the vase. This is because destruction of property is a kind of harm different from that contemplated by defendant. The rationale underlying this distinction is that the defendant has only one intent. If the law were to deem that the defendant intended to destroy property, it would be placing on him an intent he never had—he would now have both the intent to kill and the intent to destroy property. In contrast, where the defendant intends to kill one person but ends up killing another, there's still only one intent—the intent to kill.\n\nIt is interesting to compare the principle underlying the Unborn Victims of Violence Act 2004 in the United States which applies only to offenses over which the U.S. government has jurisdiction, namely crimes committed on Federal properties, against certain Federal officials and employees, and by members of the military, but treats the fetus as a separate person for the purposes of all levels of assault including murder and attempted murder:\n\"Sec. 1841. Protection of unborn children\n\nIn the UK the transferred malice doctrine is not without controversy. The House of Lords in \"Attorney General's Reference No 3 of 1994\" reversed the Court of Appeal decision (reported at (1996) 2 WLR 412), holding that the doctrine of transferred malice could not apply to convict an accused of murder in English law when the defendant had stabbed a pregnant woman in the face, back and abdomen. Some days after she was released from hospital in an apparently stable condition, she went into labour and gave birth to a premature child, who died four months later. The child had been wounded in the original attack but the more substantial cause of death was her prematurity. It was argued that the fetus was part of the mother so that any intention to cause grievous bodily harm (GBH) to the mother was also an intent aimed at the fetus. Lord Mustill criticised the doctrine as having no sound intellectual basis, saying that it was related to the original concept of malice, i.e. that a wrongful act displayed a malevolence which could be attached to any adverse consequence, and this had long been out of date. Nevertheless, it would sometimes provide a justification to convict when that was a common sense outcome and so could sensibly be retained. The present case was not a simple \"transfer\" from mother to uterine child, but sought to create an intention to cause injury to the child after birth. This would be a double transfer: first from the mother to the fetus, and then from the fetus to the child when it was born. Then one would have to apply the fiction which converts an intention to commit GBH into the \"mens rea\" of murder. That was too much. But the accused could be convicted of manslaughter.\n\nIn \"R v Gnango\", the Supreme Court controversially held that under the doctrines of joint enterprise and transferred malice D2 is guilty of V's murder if D1 and D2 voluntarily engage in fighting each other, each intending to kill or cause grievous bodily harm to the other and each foreseeing that the other has the reciprocal intention, and if D1 mistakenly kills V in the course of the fight.\n\n"}
{"id": "7535573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7535573", "title": "Umberto Meoli", "text": "Umberto Meoli\n\nUmberto Meoli (26 August 1920 – 17 May 2002) was an Italian historian of economics, known as a maverick of the Italian Left who eschewed Marxism in favour of British pragmatism.\n\nMeoli was born in Padua, one of nineteen brothers; his father was a pharmacist from a small town near Benevento, and his mother was from Padua.\n\nIn 1940, at age 20, Meoli began his service in the Italian Army fighting in World War II, and, three years later, with the Resistance after the 1943 armistice between Italy and the Allied armed forces. As a result, Meoli was imprisoned by the Benito Mussolini Fascist government, and spent several months in the Palazzo Giusti detention center in Padua. The Palazzo Giusti detention center was notorious for the cruelty of some Fascists in Padua during the Italian Social Republic. For example, Giovanni Gonelli, a barely literate jail keeper at Palazzo Giusti in Padua and a member of the Banda Carità, apparently enjoyed dehumanizing his prisoners by refusing their requests for food or blankets. The sentence of the Appellate Court of 8 January 1946 states that Gonelli would tell prisoners who asked for water to \"piss and drink.\" There is no doubt that Meoli experienced such cruelty while imprisoned in Palazzo Giusti, and that this cruelty affected his thoughts.\n\nIn 1961 Meoli married Rachel Toulmin, an Englishwoman and lecturer at Padua University. Rachel Toulmin was the younger sister of Stephen Toulmin, a historian and philosopher of science at the University of Southern California. \n\nMeoli was briefly a Communist, and after graduating, he worked for a time in the trade unions (\"Camera del Lavoro\") in Vicenza, but he was soon at odds with the rigid militancy of organized labor. He found his vocation in the late 1950s, when he obtained a teaching post at the University of Parma.\n\nIt was during his time at \"Camera del Lavoro\" that Meoli became influenced by the Canadian Harry Gordon Johnson, one of the most active and prolific economists of all time. Gordon's main research was in the area of international trade, international finance, and monetary policy. In 1961, Meoli made a special journey to the University of Manchester in England to meet Johnson. He quickly became a close friend of both Philip Andrews, A former President of the Royal Economic Society, Andrews was senior researcher at Nuffield College at the time and Elizabeth Brunner with whom Meoli shared an admiration for Alfred Marshall and a more skeptical view of John Maynard Keynes.\n\nIn 1961, Meoli published the first book in steady flow of books, in which would increasingly concentrate on the history of economic thought and ideas.\n\nBy 1970, Meoli became Professor of the History of Economic Thought at Camera del Lavoro, and shortly afterwards was invited to occupy a similar chair at the University of Venice.\n\nIn addition to his chair positions, from 1992 to 1998 Umberto Meoli was president of the Italian Association for the History of Economic Thought (\"L'Associazione Italiana per la Storia del Pensiero Economico\", AISPE).\n\nMeoli always thought of himself as a man of the Left. However, he early became convinced of the unacceptable limitations of Marxist economic theory, and his books and articles struck many of his leftist colleagues as a kind of apostasy. Meoli's writings exhibited an ever-growing respect for British pragmatism, and the economic liberalism of Adam Smith, David Ricardo, and Alfred Marshall. As an example of his unconventional approach, the figure of Gustav von Schmoller has been highlighted by authors like Francesco Traniello, who has indicated the importance that Schmoller, like Gustav von Schönberg, Adolph Wagner and Albert Schäffle, among others, gave the ethical element of the political Economy, whereas Umberto Meoli associates the figure of Schmoller to those of Lujo Brentano and Karl Bücher as the most representative authors of the development of the Economic Historiography. Eventually seen in Italian academic circles as a maverick and a great Anglophile, Meoli's leftist friends tolerated the irony, largely because Meoli would comment on their dismay with sudden eruptions of laughter.\n\n\n\nLauer, A. Robert. \"A Revaluation of Pasolini's \"Salò\".\" \"CLCWeb: Comparative Literature and Culture\" 4.1 (2002): \n\n"}
{"id": "6813658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6813658", "title": "William Maziere Brady", "text": "William Maziere Brady\n\nWilliam Maziere Brady (1825–1894) was an Irish priest, ecclesiastical historian and journalist who converted to Roman Catholicism from Anglicanism.\n\nBorn in Dublin, 8 January 1825, he was nephew of Sir Maziere Brady, 1st Baronet, Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and youngest son of Sir Nicholas W. Brady who, whilst Lord Mayor of Dublin, was knighted by George IV during his visit to that city. William Maziere Brady entered Trinity College, Dublin, in 1842, received the degree of B.A. in 1848, B. D. in 1858, and D. D. in 1863. In 1848 he was appointed Anglican curate of Maynooth and in 1849, curate of Kilkeedy, Limerick. In 1851 he became curate of St. Dolough's, Dublin, and in the same year Rector of Farrahy, County Cork. In this year, also, he married a lineal descendant, on the maternal side, of Jeremy Taylor. Brady acted as chaplain to several successive viceroys, and in 1861 became Vicar of Clonfert, County Cork.\n\nWhen the Church Disestablishment act was passed, Brady went to Rome, where he examined the Vatican archives for information touching the ecclesiastical affairs of England, Ireland, and Scotland. He shortly resigned his benefices as Vicar of Donoughpatrick, and Rector of Kilbery, Meath, to which he had been promoted from Cork, and in May, 1873, was received into the Catholic Church by Monsignor Kirby, Rector of the Irish College at Rome. During his stay in Rome, he acted as correspondent of the London \"Tablet\", and issued a pamphlet on \"The Pope's Anti-Parnellite Circular\" (London, 1883). He had a share in the political controversies of the day and corresponded with William Ewart Gladstone and other statesmen. He died of apoplexy in Rome, 19 March 1894, and was buried in the Campo Verano.\n\nWhile at Clonfert he published in three volumes the \"Clerical and Parochial Records of Cork, Cloyne and Ross\" (Dublin, 1863), which he compiled from diocesan and parish registries and manuscripts in the principal libraries and public offices of Oxford, Dublin, and London, and from private and family papers. These \"Records\" are mainly those of the Protestant Diocese of Cork, Cloyne and Ross.\n\nBrady published several works in favour of the disestablishment of the Irish Protestant Church, such as: \"Remarks on the Irish Church Temporalities\" (1865); \"Facts or Fiction; The alleged Conversion of the Irish Bishops to the Reformed Religion at the Accession of Queen Elizabeth and the Assumed Descent of the Present Established Hierarchy from the Ancient Irish Church Disproved\" (1866), which went through five editions; \"State Papers concerning the Irish Church in the time of Queen Elizabeth\" (1868); \"Some Remarks on the Irish Church Bill\" (1869); and \"Essays on the English State Church in Ireland\" (1869). On the Irish Church question he also contributed numerous letters to the newspaper press, and articles to \"Fraser's\" and \"The Contemporary\", many of which were subsequently reprinted in pamphlet or book form. Some interesting articles from his pen appeared in the \"Catholic World\" on \"Ireland's Mission\" (May, 1870); \"The Ancient Irish Churches\" (July, 1870), written while yet a Protestant, and \"Pius IX and Mr. Gladstone's Misrepresentations\" (May, 1875).\n\nHis Vatican researches led to the publication of two volumes on \"Episcopal Succession in England, Scotland, and Ireland, A.D. 1400 to 1875, with Appointments to Monasteries, and Extracts from Manuscripts in Public and Private Libraries in Rome, Florence, Bologna, Vienna, and Paris\" (Rome, 1876–77). He also brought out, \"Annals of the Catholic Hierarchy in England and Scotland, A.D. 1585-1876, with a Dissertation on Anglican Orders\" (Rome, 1877; London, 1883). The last of his works was the \"Anglo-Roman Papers\", published in 1890.\n\nHis only work of a purely secular character is \"The McGillicuddy Papers; a Selection from the Family Archives of the McGillicuddy of the Reeks, with an Introductory Memoir\" (1867).\n\n"}
{"id": "44656404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44656404", "title": "Zeng Baosun", "text": "Zeng Baosun\n\nZeng Baosun (; 1893 – 27 July 1978) was a Chinese feminist, historian, and Christian educator. She was the great-granddaughter of Zeng Guofan, a Qing dynasty Chinese official who commanded the Xiang Army during the Taiping Rebellion.\n\nZeng was born into a prominent family in Xiangxiang, Hunan Province. Her great-grandfather was Zeng Guofan. Her feet were not bound and there was no early, arranged marriage.\n\nAt the age of 14, she studied at a girls' school in Shanghai before entering the Hangzhou Women's Normal School. Zeng converted to Christianity while studying an Anglican church school, Mary Vaughan High School, which she entered in 1910. She then attended Blackheath High School in London, before entering Westfield College, graduating with a bachelor's degree in 1916, thus becoming the first Chinese woman to receive the \"Bachelor of Science degree with honors\" from this college. Zeng often attended the Quaker meeting at Hampstead during her time at Westfield. She received teacher's training while at Oxford University and Cambridge University.\n\nZeng founded I Fang Girls' Collegiate School in Changsha. She left China in 1949 to settle in Taiwan. In 1953, she represented the Republic of China in the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women. Self-described in her memoir as a \"Confucian feminist\", Zeng published her autobiography as well as women's issues essays. She served on the Board of Directors of Donghai University in Taizhong. She died in Taiwan and was buried at No. 1 Public Cemetery in Taipei.\n\n"}
