{"id": "20860686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20860686", "title": "Abortion in Suriname", "text": "Abortion in Suriname\n\nAbortion in Suriname is illegal except in case of the threat to life or health of the woman. The punishment for a woman who has an abortion is up to three years in prison, and the punishment for a doctor or other person who performs the procedure is up to four years.\n\nIn 2007, Health Minister Celsius Waterberg caused a stir when he criticized the legalization of euthanasia while advocating abortion in limited circumstances, namely in the case of rape or danger to the unborn child.\n\n"}
{"id": "14425658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14425658", "title": "Adjudicative competence", "text": "Adjudicative competence\n\nAdjudicative competence, also referred to as competence to stand trial, is a legal construct describing the criminal defendant's ability to understand and participate in legal proceedings. This includes the defendant's current ability to participate in various pleas and waivers of rights. It is unrelated to any possibility of an insanity plea. It is also unrelated to the ability of the defendant to represent himself, or to any evaluation of mitigation factors. The definition of adjudicative competence was provided by the United States Supreme Court in Dusky v. United States. \n\nAn empirical basis for the clinical assessment of competence has not yet been established.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "621683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621683", "title": "Alliance Healthcare", "text": "Alliance Healthcare\n\nAlliance Healthcare, formerly Alliance UniChem, wholesales, distributes, and retails pharmaceutical, surgical, medical, and healthcare products throughout Europe. The company supplies more than 110,000 pharmacies, doctors, health centres and hospitals from over 288 distribution centres in 11 countries.\nThe company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Walgreens Boots Alliance, which was formed by the merger of Walgreens with its former parent Alliance Boots in December 2014. Alliance Boots had itself been formed in 2006 by the merger of Boots Group and Alliance UniChem on July 31, 2006. Alliance UniChem was rebranded Alliance Healthcare in 2009.\n\nStefano Pessina founded Alleanza Salute Italia in 1977 under the name of Alleanza Farmaceutica, which expanded to form Alliance Santé SA. In November 1997, Alliance Santé SA merged with UniChem PLC to form Alliance UniChem. The combined business became one of the largest pharmaceutical distributors in Europe. In 1998 it purchased a majority stake in the Spanish pharmaceutical wholesaler Grupo Safa.\n\nIn 1999, Alliance UniChem entered into a partnership with Galenica AG of Switzerland, and created the Alliance Farmacie business in Italy. Plus s.r.o. and Pragopharm s.r.o. of the Czech Republic were purchased that year, and Alliance Santè and UniChem's Portuguese subsidiaries merged to form Alliance UniChem Farmacêutica S.A.\n\nThe company purchased the Dutch firms Interpharm and De Vier Vijzels in 2000. In 2001 the company entered into a strategic wholesale pharmaceutical partnership with the Turkish company Hedef Holding. In 2002, Alliance UniChem bought the Norwegian pharmaceutical wholesaler Holtung. The company entered the FTSE 100 index that year.\n\nIn 2003, Alliance UniChem bought a 40% indirect stake in the Egyptian wholesaler UCP via Hedef. The group launched the \"Almus\" brand for the marketing of manufacturers' generic products in the UK, and launched the virtual pharmacy chain Alphega in France. The virtual chain was introduced in Italy the following year.\n\nAlliance UniChem acquired Swiss specialist healthcare logistics and pre-wholesaler Alloga in 2005, as well as Spanish pharmaceutical wholesaler Farmacen, and the Bairds Chemist retail business in Northern Ireland. The UK retail pharmacy business was rebranded from \"Moss Pharmacy\" to \"Alliance Pharmacy\".\n\nOn October 3, 2005, it was formally announced that Alliance UniChem would enter into a friendly merger with Boots Group, the UK's largest retail pharmacy chain. The merger was completed on July 31, 2006, forming Alliance Boots. Alliance UniChem was renamed Alliance Healthcare in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "815825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=815825", "title": "Archibald Menzies", "text": "Archibald Menzies\n\nArchibald Menzies ( ; 15 March 1754 – 15 February 1842) was a Scottish surgeon, botanist and naturalist. He spent many years at sea, serving with the Royal Navy, private merchants, and the Vancouver Expedition. He was the first recorded European to reach the summit of the Hawaiian volcano Mauna Loa and introduced the Monkey Puzzle tree to England. \n\nMenzies was born at Easter Stix (or Styx) in the parish of Weem, in Perthshire, Scotland. While working with his elder brother William at the Royal Botanic Gardens, he drew the attention of Dr John Hope, professor of botany at Edinburgh University, who encouraged him to study medicine there. Having qualified as a surgeon, Menzies served as assistant to a doctor in Caernarvon, Wales, then joined the Royal Navy as assistant surgeon on . Present at Battle of the Saintes (12 April 1782), in peacetime Menzies served on Halifax Station in Nova Scotia.\n\nIn 1786 Menzies was appointed surgeon on board the \"Prince of Wales\" (Captain James Colnett), on a fur-trading voyage round Cape Horn to the northern Pacific. This ship, in company of \"Princess Royal\" (Captain Duncan), visited North America, China and Hawaii (the Sandwich Isles) several times; Menzies collected a number of new plants on this voyage, and also ensured that none of the crew died of illness. Menzies returned to Great Britain in 1789. He was elected a fellow of the Linnean Society in 1790.\n\nIn 1790, Menzies was appointed as naturalist to accompany Captain George Vancouver on his voyage around the world on HMS \"Discovery\". When the surgeon fell ill, Menzies took over his duties.\nIn 1794, while \"Discovery\" spent one of three winters in Hawaii, Menzies, with Lieutenant Joseph Baker and two other men, made the first recorded ascent to Mokuaweoweo, the summit of Mauna Loa. Menzies used a portable barometer to measure the height of the mountain as compared to its currently known height of .\n\nIt would be forty years before another European, fellow Scotsman David Douglas, would reach the summit on 29 January 1834. \n\nIn 1795, Menzies was served the seeds of the Chile Pine, \"Araucaria araucana\", as a dessert while dining with the Viceroy of Chile. He was able to pop some seeds into his pocket and grow them on board ship on the way back to Europe, and returned to England with five healthy plants, the first seen in Britain. Known as the Monkey Puzzle tree, the Chile Pine became a favourite in most formal gardens of the nineteenth century.\n\nAfter the voyage, Menzies served with the Navy in the West Indies. He received the degree of M.D. at the University of Aberdeen in 1799. After retiring from the Navy he became a doctor and surgeon at Notting Hill, London. He became the father of the Linnean Society upon the death of Aylmer Bourke Lambert.\n\nMenzies's wife died in 1837. They had no children. Menzies himself died in London on 15 February 1842 and is buried in Kensal Green cemetery.\n\nMenzies' name is commemorated in the scientific names of several of the plants he discovered, including \"Menziesia\", a genus of shrubs in the Ericaceae, and the Douglas fir \"Pseudotsuga menziesii\", the most commercially important tree in western North America. The Pacific madrone, an evergreen tree and largest of the Ericaceae, was named \"Arbutus menziesii\" in his honour by Friedrich Pursh. Also named for Menzies, in a corrupted form as adapted by the Nuxalk people of the Bella Coola area of the Central Coast of British Columbia, is \"Bensins Island\", as recorded by Alexander Mackenzie during his visit there shortly after Vancouver's ship visited the area. \n\nThe Ainapo Trail he used to climb Mauna Loa is also known as \"Menzies Trail\". One of the principal streets surrounding the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia in Victoria, British Columbia is named Menzies street.\n\nMany of the specimens collected by Menzies are planted in London's Kew Gardens. He also brought back to London 112 separate collections of artefacts, which are housed at the British Museum. A comprehensive catalogue of these collections was not published until 1951.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9671330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9671330", "title": "Birth Control (film)", "text": "Birth Control (film)\n\nBirth Control (also known as The New World) is a lost 1917 American documentary film produced by and starring Margaret Sanger and describing her family planning work. It was the first film banned under the 1915 ruling of the United States Supreme Court in \"Mutual Film Corporation v. Industrial Commission of Ohio\", which held that the exhibition of films did not constitute free speech. \n\nThe banning of \"Birth Control\" was upheld by the New York Court of Appeals on the grounds that a film on family planning may be censored \"in the interest of morality, decency, and public safety and welfare.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36862236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36862236", "title": "Brancaster Manor", "text": "Brancaster Manor\n\nBrancaster Manor is a saltmarsh owned by the National Trust near Brancaster, Norfolk covering 810 ha (2,000 acres). It was originally purchased by the Brancaster Memorial Trust in 1964, and transferred to the National Trust in 1967. It is leased to Brancaster Staithe Fishermen's Society.\n\nIt was designated as a Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) in 1968, and in 1986 it was subsumed into the North Norfolk Coast Site of Special Scientific Interest. The larger area is now additionally protected through Natura 2000, Special Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar listings, and is part of the Norfolk Coast Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB).\n\n"}
{"id": "52355940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52355940", "title": "Cannabis in Estonia", "text": "Cannabis in Estonia\n\nCannabis in Estonia is illegal, but possession of up to 7.5 grams is considered an amount for personal use, and is punished with a fine. Large amounts and distribution are criminal offences and punishable with a custodial sentence of up to 5 years. In 2018, the then recently merged municipality of in southern Estonia adopted the cannabis leaf as the symbol on its flag and coat of arms. \"\" is the Estonian word for cannabis. Hemp was historically used as a product in shipbuilding. It was traded from the eastern Baltic within the Hanseatic League and in the sixteenth century directly to the Netherlands for this purpose.\n"}
{"id": "23804755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23804755", "title": "Capitation (healthcare)", "text": "Capitation (healthcare)\n\nCapitation is a payment arrangement for health care service providers such as physicians, physician assistants or nurse practitioners. It pays a physician or group of physicians a set amount for each enrolled person assigned to them, per period of time, whether or not that person seeks care. These providers generally are contracted with a type of health maintenance organization (HMO) known as an independent practice association (IPA), which enlists the providers to care for HMO-enrolled patients. The amount of remuneration is based on the average expected health care utilization of that patient, with greater payment for patients with significant medical history.\n\nPrimary capitation is a relationship between a managed care organization (MCO) and primary care physician (PCP), in which the PCP is paid directly by the MCO for those enrolled members who have selected the physician as their provider.\n\nSecondary capitation is a relationship arranged by the MCO between a PCP and a secondary or specialist provider, such as an X-ray facility or ancillary facility such as a durable medical equipment supplier whose secondary provider is also paid capitation based on that PCP’s enrolled membership.\n\nGlobal capitation is a relationship based on a provider who provides services and is reimbursed per-member per-month (PMPM) for the entire network population.\n\nUnder capitation, physicians are given an incentive to consider the cost of treatment. Pure capitation pays a set fee per patient, regardless of their degree of infirmity, giving physicians an incentive to avoid the most costly patients.\n\nProviders who work under such plans focus on preventive health care, as there is a greater financial reward in the prevention of illness than in the treatment of the ill. Such plans divert providers from the use of expensive treatment options.\n\nThe financial risks providers accept in capitation are traditional insurance risks. Provider revenues are fixed, and each enrolled patient makes a claims against the full resources of the provider. In exchange for the fixed payment, physicians essentially become the enrolled clients' insurers, who resolve their patients' claims at the point of care and assume the responsibility for their unknown future health care costs. Large providers tend to manage the risk better than do smaller providers because they are better prepared for variations in service demand and costs, but even large providers are inefficient risk managers in comparison to large insurers. Providers tend to be small in comparison to insurers and so are more like individual consumers, whose annual costs as a percentage of their annual cash flow vary far more than do those of large insurers. For example, a capitated eye care program for 25,000 patients is more viable than a capitated eye program for 10,000 patients. The smaller the roster of patients, the greater the variation in annual costs and the more likely that the costs may exceed the resources of the provider. In very small capitation portfolios, a small number of costly patients can dramatically affect a provider's overall costs and increase the provider's risk of insolvency.\n\nPhysicians and other health care providers lack the necessary actuarial, underwriting, accounting and finance skills for insurance risk management, but their most severe problem is the greater variation in their estimates of the average patient cost, which leaves them at a financial disadvantage as compared to insurers whose estimates are far more accurate. Because their risks are a function of portfolio size, providers can reduce their risks only by increasing the numbers of patients they carry on their rosters, but their inefficiency relative to that of the insurers' is far greater than can be mitigated by these increases. To manage risk as efficiently as an insurer, a provider would have to assume 100% of the insurer's portfolio. HMOs and insurers manage their costs better than risk-assuming healthcare providers and cannot make risk-adjusted capitation payments without sacrificing profitability. Risk-transferring entities will enter into such agreements only if they can maintain the levels of profits they achieve by retaining risks.\n\nProviders cannot afford reinsurance, which would further deplete their inadequate capitation payments, as the reinsurer's expected loss costs, expenses, profits and risk loads must be paid by the providers. The goal of reinsurance is to offload risk and reward to the reinsurer in return for more stable operating results, but the provider's additional costs make that impractical. Reinsurance assumes that the insurance-risk-transferring entities do not create inefficiencies when they shift insurance risks to providers.\n\nWithout any induced inefficiencies, providers would be able to pass on a portion of their risk premiums to reinsurers, but the premiums that providers would have to receive would exceed the premiums that risk-transferring entities could charge in competitive insurance markets. Reinsurers are wary of contracting with physicians, as they believe that if providers think they can collect more than they pay in premiums, they would tend to revert to the same excesses encouraged by fee-for-service payment systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47004", "title": "Colo (gorilla)", "text": "Colo (gorilla)\n\nColo (December 22, 1956 – January 17, 2017) was a western gorilla widely known as the first gorilla to be born in captivity anywhere in the world and as the oldest known gorilla in the world. Colo was born at the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium to Millie Christina (mother) and Baron Macombo (father), and lived there for her entire life. She was briefly called Cuddles before a contest was held to officially name her. (Mrs. Howard Brannon of Zanesville, Ohio, won the contest.) Colo's name was derived from the place of her birth, Columbus, Ohio.\n\nAs she was rejected at birth by her mother, zookeepers had to hand-raise Colo. They hand-raised her much like a human child, by dressing her in clothes and giving her bottles of formula. At the age of two years, Colo was introduced to a 19-month-old male from Africa called Bongo. Colo and Bongo had three offspring, the first on February 1, 1968, Emmy, a female. Colo and Bongo had two more offspring: Oscar, born July 18, 1969, and Toni, on December 28, 1971.\n\nOn April 25, 1979, Columbus Zoo had its first third generation birth. The infant was named Cora, short for Central Ohio Rare Ape. On January 27, 1997, Colo's great-grandson Jantu was born. A birth at the Henry Doorly Zoo made Colo a great-great-grandmother in 2003.\n\nAlthough Colo did not raise any of her own offspring, she reared her twin grandsons, Macombo II and Mosuba, from birth. Colo also acted as a guardian for her grandson, named J.J. after \"Jungle\" Jack Hanna with whom he shares a birthday.\n\nColo resided at the Columbus Zoo longer than any other animal in the zoo's collection. She celebrated her 50th birthday in 2006 with her keeper Gregory Moore with a chimps' tea party. Colo and her progeny, five of which still reside at the Columbus Zoo, comprised about one-third of Columbus Zoo's gorilla collection of 17 as of 2015.\n\nColo was the oldest living gorilla in captivity, following the death of 55-year-old Jenny in September 2008. Colo celebrated her 60th birthday on 22 December 2016. The Columbus Zoo announced that Colo died in her sleep on January 17, 2017. \n\nColo was a mother to three, a grandmother to 16, a great-grandmother to 12, and a great-great-grandmother to three.\n\nOldest apes#Gorillas\n\n"}
{"id": "10024015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10024015", "title": "Delta Corporation", "text": "Delta Corporation\n\nThe Delta Corporation is a beer and soft drink company of Zimbabwe. The company is headquartered in Harare and is listed on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange and its stock index, the Zimbabwe Industrial Index.\n\nDelta's brand names include:\n\nCultural sponsorship\n\nDelta has two lager breweries, one in Southerton in Harare and Belmont in Bulawayo.\n\nThere are 14 Sorghum breweries across Zimbabwe to produce Chibuku which has a short shelf-life and consequently needs to be produced closer to the market. Additional investments were of USD 12 million made at the Chibuku brewery in Chitungwiza, to increase annual production to 1,8 million hectoliters.\n\nA maltings plant was built in Kwe-kwe to produce barley malt from locally grown barley. A smaller sorghum maltings plant in Harare was taken over from the municipality to produce sorghum malt for the Chibuku brand.\n\n"}
{"id": "9384649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9384649", "title": "Europe PubMed Central", "text": "Europe PubMed Central\n\nEurope PubMed Central (Europe PMC) is an on-line database that offers free access to a large and growing collection of biomedical research literature. It was known as UK PubMed Central until 1 November 2012. The Europe PMC project was originally launched in 2007 as the first 'mirror' site to PMC, which aims to provide international preservation of the open and free-access biomedical and life sciences literature. It forms part of a network of PMC International (PMCI) repositories that includes PubMed Central Canada. Europe PMC is not an exact \"mirror\" of the PMC database but has developed some different features. On February 15, 2013, \"CiteXplore\" was subsumed under Europe PubMed Central.\n\nThe resource is managed and developed by the European Molecular Biology Laboratory-European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI), on behalf of an alliance of 27 biomedical and life sciences research funders, led by the Wellcome Trust. The Europe PMC funders group requires that articles describing the results of biomedical and life sciences research they have supported be made freely available in Europe PMC within 6 months of publication to maximise the impact of the work that they fund.\n\nEurope PMC provides free access to more than 3.7 million full-text biomedical and life sciences research articles and over 31 million citations. Europe PMC contains some citation information and includes text-mining based marked up text that links to external molecular and medical datasets. The Grant Lookup facility allows users to search for information on over 56,700 grants awarded by the Europe PMC funders.\n\nEurope PMC offers a manuscript submission system, Europe PMC plus, which allows scientists to submit their peer-reviewed research articles for inclusion in the Europe PMC collection.\n\nEurope PMC is supported by 27 organisations: Academy of Medical Sciences, Action on Hearing Loss, Alzheimer's Society, Arthritis Research UK, Austrian Science Fund (FWF), the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Bloodwise, Breast Cancer Now, the British Heart Foundation, Cancer Research UK, the Chief Scientist Office of the Scottish Executive Health Department, Diabetes UK, the Department of Health, the Dunhill Medical Trust, the European Research Council, Marie Curie, the Medical Research Council, the Motor Neurone Disease Association, the Multiple Sclerosis Society, the Myrovlytis Trust, the National Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs), Parkinson's UK, Prostate Cancer UK, Telethon Italy, the Wellcome Trust, the World Health Organization and Worldwide Cancer Research (formerly Association for International Cancer Research).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14530523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14530523", "title": "Fatalities in mixed martial arts contests", "text": "Fatalities in mixed martial arts contests\n\nMixed martial arts (MMA) in the United States was sanctioned under the \"Unified Rules\" in the states of New Jersey and Nevada in 2001, and is now regulated in all states by their combat sport commissions. , there have been five recorded deaths resulting from sanctioned contests, Sam Vasquez in Texas on November 30, 2007 and Michael Kirkham in South Carolina on June 28, 2010 both died of cerebral hemorrhage, Tyrone Mims in South Carolina on August 11, 2012 due to an unknown cause, and Booto Guylain a Congolese fighter died on March 5, 2014 following complications resulting from a head injury experienced during an MMA bout a week earlier in South Africa with a Durban fighter named Karen Davies. Donshay White died of heart disease on July 16, 2017 in Kentucky. A 2006 study suggests that the risk of injury in general in MMA is comparable to that in professional boxing. For professional boxing matches, the Manuel Velazquez Boxing Fatality Collection lists 923 deaths during the 118-year period of 1890-2007.\n\n35-year-old Sam Vasquez competed in a Renegades Extreme Fighting bout on October 20, 2007 in Houston, Texas, losing the fight in the third round by way of knockout.\n\nVasquez lost consciousness again shortly thereafter and was taken to Saint Joseph Medical Center's Critical Care Unit. He was diagnosed with a subdural hemorrhage for which a section of the skull bone was removed to allow the brain to swell without compressing it. Additional swelling led to the placement of a tube to allow cerebral spinal fluid to be drained out of the cavities in the brain to make room for more swelling as well as to allow the monitoring of pressure in the brain. He slipped into a coma for 48 hours until his death on November 30.\n\nVasquez's death was officially ruled as a death due to complications of blunt trauma of the head with a subdural hemorrhage.\nVasquez was the first fighter to die from injuries sustained in sanctioned mixed martial arts competition in North America.\n\n30-year-old Michael Kirkham competed at Dash Entertainment/King MMA “Confrontation at the Convocation Center” at the University of South Carolina Aiken campus in Aiken, South Carolina on June 26, 2010. His opponent Carlos Iraburo had Kirkham on the canvas seconds into his pro debut, Iraburo then landed a few strikes to the head of his grounded opponent leading to a referee stoppage forty-one seconds into the match. Kirkham soon lost consciousness and never recovered. He was pronounced dead two days after the fight. An autopsy report listed the cause of death as “subarachnoid hemorrhage of the brain”. Kirkham had been TKO'd in his final amateur bout on April 24, 2010 leading Doctor Joe Estwanik, the former medical advisor to the North Carolina Boxing Authority to speculate: \"This could have been second-impact syndrome\". Typically, to avoid such, combat sporting authorities have the right to suspend a contestant longer than the normal 45 days (with 30 days of no contact) for a knockout after tests.\n\n30-year-old Tyrone 'Teestea' Mims was competing in an amateur mixed martial arts show on August 11, 2012 at Conflict MMA Fight Night at the Point IV in Mount Pleasant, South Carolina. Tyrone became weak and tired in the second round and the referee stopped the bout because he was unable to continue. The referee and cage side physician both checked on him and he responded to them that he was fine, just tired. Shortly after being helped back to the locker room by teammates, Tyrone lost consciousness. EMS attempted to revive him at the scene and transported him to the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) hospital where he was pronounced dead at 9:27 p.m. et. A Charleston County Coroner performed a \"gross autopsy\", which looks at visible injuries, and failed to reach a cause of death. The Final autopsy results were also inconclusive, no evidence of a concussion or brain trauma were detected, the toxicology report did not reveal the presence of drugs or alcohol. Coroner Rae Wooten speculated that Mims \"might have had an irregular heart because of some electrical dysfunction\" stating: \"That obviously isn't seen after death. Once that's completed, there's no evidence of that.\" And concluding: \"There's just nothing here that explains his death.\"\n\n29-year-old Booto Guylain, a Congolese fighter, experienced a head injury during the third round of his MMA bout against Keron Davies at EFC AFRICA 27 held in Johannesburg, South Africa on February 27, 2014. He was stabilized on-site and taken to the hospital. He died a week later on March 5, 2014 as a result of complications related to the swelling of the brain.\n\n37-year-old Donshay White lost a sanctioned amateur bout in Kentucky by TKO on July 16, 2017. It was his first bout since 2015. After the fight, he collapsed backstage and passed away in a hospital. The cause of his death was ruled as hypertensive heart disease. The autopsy revealed that White was suffering from high blood pressure but was not taking medication for it. Despite this, White passed a physical on the day of the fight.\n\n15-year-old Alfredo Castro Herrera, died on April 14, 1981 following an unsanctioned \"mixed martial arts\" match described in the \"St. Louis Globe Democrat\" as \"boxing mixed with karate and judo\" (April 15, 1981 issue) in Tijuana, Mexico where he was knocked out. Herrera's opponent was Angel Luis Rodriguez.\n\n31-year-old Douglas Dedge was an American mixed martial artist who was the first known American competitor to be fatally injured in an MMA fight and the first death in the modern era of MMA. On March 16, 1998 Dedge competed at an unsanctioned \"World Super Challenge\" event in Kiev, Ukraine. After tapping out following multiple strikes to his head, Dedge stood and almost immediately collapsed back to the mat. Dedge was then taken to the Kiev Institute of Surgery where he died two days later on March 18 of what the chief emergency room doctor termed \"severe brain injuries\".\n\nDedge was reported to have passed out during a training session leading up to the bout and it is now widely believed (though never officially confirmed) that Dedge had a preexisting medical condition.\n\n35-year-old Lee died following an unsanctioned May 12, 2005 MMA bout that took place in a sports bar in Samsong-dong, South Korea. No prefight physical exams were conducted. Cause of death was listed as myocardial infarction (heart attack).\n\n20-year-old Mike Mittelmeier died April 27, 2012 following an unsanctioned April 21 event in Bolivia. After taking down his opponent and applying a leg lock, his opponent illegally kicked him in the head with the heel of his foot, knocking him out. The fight was stopped and Mittelmeier was pronounced the winner by disqualification, a few seconds later he collapsed (later being diagnosed with a cerebral hemorrhage that left him comatose). It is alleged that the promoters did not have a doctor or ambulance standing by and it took a long time before he was transferred to a hospital.\n\n26-year-old Dustin Jenson died May 24, 2012 at Rapid City Regional Hospital in South Dakota, following an unsanctioned \"RingWars\" event on May 18 at Rushmore Plaza Civic Center in Rapid City where he tapped out. Jenson then watched the next two fights before going to the locker room, where he suffered a seizure. The autopsy listed the cause of death as subdural hemorrhage resulting from blunt force trauma to the head, that was related to an injury suffered approximately a week prior.\n\nAlthough the timeline for the injury is consistent with the event on May 18, 2012, there is no conclusive evidence that the injury was sustained in the fight.\n\n35-year-old Nigerian-born Pablo Elochukwu, an Ontario resident died after competing in his first amateur mixed martial arts bout in the Amateur Fighting Club in Port Huron, Michigan, on April 7, 2013. According to reports, neither he nor his opponent was required to undergo pre-fight medicals for their bout. Sometime in the third round, Elochukwu was mounted and was not properly defending himself causing the referee to halt the bout. Elochukwu appeared to be fine during the announcement of the final decision and walked away on his own accord but on the way to the dressing room he stopped and sat down citing exhaustion. Those around Elochukwu noticed something was wrong and offered him some orange juice believing his blood sugar may have dropped significantly (he was said to be hypoglycaemic). Moments after being helped onto a chair, he fell from it. A certified first responder in the crowd noticed Elochukwu's distress as Elochukwu was being helped to a seat, he was in and out of consciousness as Ryan Puzan, the first responder from the crowd, reached him. Puzan was told by event staff that paramedics had been called and were on their way, he however doubted that as EMS did not show up until forty minutes later according to Puzan. Elochukwu stopped showing any vital signs a few minutes after floating in and out of consciousness, Puzan and an RN from the crowd then performed CPR and breathing treatments on Elochukwu until the arrival of paramedics. The ambulance was dispatched at 9:31 p.m. Elochukwu was treated and pronounced dead at 10:12 p.m. at Port Huron Hospital.\n\nThere were said to be no hired medics or doctors at the venue at the time Elochukwu's collapse. According to Ryan Puzan: \"if Felix had access to a defibrillator there, he could be walking and talking today.”\n\nMichigan was among about a dozen U.S. states in which amateur mixed martial arts bouts are legal but unregulated. The death of Elochukwu prompted the Michigan legislator to quickly regulate amateur mixed martial arts. State Representative Harvey Santana commenting on the legislation stated: \"The unfortunate events that happened over the weekend kind of catapulted it faster\".\n\nUFC (the largest MMA promotion company in the world) executive Tom Wright, who heads up the organizations efforts in Canada, fielded questions about Elochukwu's death on April 10 at UFC 161 press conference in Winnipeg. Saying \"What we don't know is whether or not there were any pre-existing medical conditions that Pablo was suffering from, and in a regulated environment, we would have known that,\" he said. \"We also don't know if the referees were properly trained. We don't know whether or not there were the appropriate EMTs and ambulances and medical precautions in place. We don't even know if it was a fair fight as far as if the competitors were evenly balanced.\"\n\n\"Those are kinds of things we would know if the sport had been regulated, if the event had been regulated,\" he continued. \"It speaks to the importance of regulation in our sport, why it's important that we have the appropriate kind of rigor and standards, from medical care to pre- and post-fight medical testing to drug testing to insuring the health and safety of these athletes is always first and foremost. And in the case of an unregulated event, you don't know whether those things are in place, which is why we as an organization have always run to regulation.\"\n\n27-year-old Azerbaijani Ramin Zeynalov died March, 2015 while competing in an amateur MMA bout in Azerbaijan. A punch to the head KO'd Zeynalov and medical personnel were unable to revive him. The cause of death was later deemed a brain hemorrhage.\n\n47-year-old Trinidad-born Jameston Lee-Yaw died in April 2015 while competing in an amateur MMA bout at the SouthShore Mall in Aberdeen, Washington. The death was attributed to kidney failure. Lee-Yaw collapsed in the ring and was carried to a dressing room where it was discovered he was having trouble breathing. Lee-Yaw was initially taken to \"Grays Harbor Community Hospital\" and then transferred to Harborview Medical Center in Seattle, Washington, where he died. \"Twin Dragons Center Mixed Martial Arts\", which has training facilities at the mall, billed the event as \"Brawl at the Mall\". In Washington state, amateur bouts that take place at a gym are not required to have medical staff on hand and leave the training facility and its staff responsible for the health and safety of participants. It is unknown what caused the kidney failure. Furthermore, Lee-Yaw's age (47) would by law disqualify him from participation as a fighter in many states, which have age limits similar to those in boxing.\n\n28-year-old João Carvalho, a Portuguese fighter, died 48 hours after his bout with Charlie Ward. The match took place at Total Extreme Fighting 1, on April 11, 2016. The event was held at Dublin, Ireland’s National Stadium. Following Carvalho's death, Ireland’s Minister of State Tourism and Sport Michael Ring issued a pledge to regulate mixed martial arts in Ireland. At the time of Carvalho's death there was no governing body for professional MMA in Ireland but the Irish Amateur Pankration Association (IAPA) oversaw the sport at the amateur level.\n\n"}
{"id": "18438319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18438319", "title": "Fruits &amp; Veggies – More Matters", "text": "Fruits &amp; Veggies – More Matters\n\nFruits & Veggies – More Matters is a national public health initiative from Produce for Better Health Foundation and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to increase the consumption of fruits and vegetables. This campaign, begun in 2007, took the place of the 5 A Day program. The shift was implemented in order to better communicate updated dietary guidelines, which recommended more than 5 servings of fruits and vegetables for some Americans.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture’s \"2005 Dietary Guidelines for Americans\", released in January 2005, recommends various numbers of servings of fruits and vegetables depending on an individual’s calorie needs – ranging from 4 to 13 servings, or 2 to 6.5 cups, per day, yet research indicates that over 90 percent of Americans do not meet their recommended amount. To meet these recommendations, most need to more than double the amount of fruits and vegetables they currently eat. Closing the consumption gap requires a national call to action. Fruits & Veggies—More Matters provides a national call to action designed to encourage Americans to eat more fruits and vegetables for their better health.\n\nProduce for Better Health Foundation launched a consumer website in March 2007 aimed at educating Gen X moms about the Fruits & Veggies—More Matters campaign and the benefits of eating more fruits and vegetables. The Fruits & Veggies—More Matters website offers nutrition information, selection and storage advice, recipes, shopping and meal planning advice, tips for increasing produce consumption, and an abundance of other useful information about fruits and vegetables. Over 300 short informational videos demonstrate how to check different fruits and vegetables for ripeness, outline proper storage methods, present healthy and quick recipes, and offer other fun and useful tidbits about fruits and vegetables. \n\nThe Fruits & Veggies—More Matters campaign stresses that it’s easy to eat more fruits and vegetables because all forms (fresh, frozen, canned, dried and 100 percent juice) are nutritious.The Fruits & Veggies—More Matters logo can be found on select packages of fresh, frozen, canned, dried and 100 percent fruit and vegetable juice products in stores.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5315823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5315823", "title": "HEC syndrome", "text": "HEC syndrome\n\nHEC syndrome is a syndrome characterized by hydrocephalus, endocardial fibroelastosis and cataracts.\n"}
{"id": "11807704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11807704", "title": "Halbert L. Dunn", "text": "Halbert L. Dunn\n\nHalbert L. Dunn, M.D. (1896–1975) was the leading figure in establishing a national vital statistics system in the United States and is known as the \"father of the wellness movement\".\n\nBorn in New Paris, Ohio, he attended the University of Minnesota where he earned his M.D. in 1922 and his Ph.D. in 1923. He served as an assistant in medicine at Presbyterian Hospital of New York City 1923-1924 and as fellow in medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota (1924–1925).\n\nIn 1929, he was the first biostatistician hired by the Mayo Clinic and established its computer coding system for deriving medical statistics. He was Chief of the National Office of Vital Statistics from 1935 through 1960, first as part of the Bureau of the Census and later under the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, where it eventually became the National Center for Health Statistics in 1960. In his final year with the U.S. Public Health Service he was Assistant Surgeon General for aging.\n\nHe was one of the founders of the National Association for Public Health Statistics and Information Systems (NAPHSIS) and of the Inter-American Statistics Institute (IASI). He was Secretary General of the IASI from 1941 to 1952. The Halbert L. Dunn Award, named in his honor, has been presented since 1981 by NAPHSIS in recognition of outstanding and lasting contributions to the field of vital and health statistics.\n\nDunn is known as the \"father\" of the wellness movement. He distinguished between good health—not being ill—and what he termed high-level wellness, which he defined as \"a condition of change in which the individual moves forward, climbing toward a higher potential of functioning\". He introduced the concept in a series of twenty-nine lectures at the Unitarian Church in Arlington County, Virginia in the late 1950s, which provided the basis for his book, \"High Level Wellness\", published in 1961. The book was reissued in a number of editions but did not have a great deal of immediate impact. It did, however, come into the hands of a number of the future leaders of wellness and holistic health movement that bloomed more than a decade later, such as Don B. Ardell, Robert Russell, John Travis, and Elizabeth Neilson.\n\nFour events in the mid-1970s broadened the impact of Dunn's ideas. First, John Travis opened the first US wellness center (Mill Valley, CA, 1975). This center and other organizations were then described in Don Ardell's 1976 book, using Dunn's title (giving Dunn due credit for his origination of the title and concept). Then Elizabeth Neilson founded the journal \"Health Values: Achieving High Level Wellness\" (renamed the \"American Journal of Health Promotion\" in 1996), which was dedicated to Dunn and reprinted one of his papers in its first edition. Lastly, the publisher of \"Health Values\", Charles B. Slack, Inc., published a reprint edition of Dunn's \"High Level Wellness\" that achieved a wider distribution and impact.\n\n"}
{"id": "35325963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35325963", "title": "Health in Papua New Guinea", "text": "Health in Papua New Guinea\n\nLife expectancy in Papua New Guinea at birth was 64 years for men in 2016 and 68 for women.\n\nGovernment expenditure health in 2014 accounted for 9.5% of total government spending, with total health expenditure equating to 4.3% of GDP. There were five physicians per 100,000 people in the early 2000s. \n\nMalaria is the leading cause of illness and death in New Guinea. In 2003, the most recently reported year, 70,226 cases of laboratory-confirmed malaria were reported, along with 537 deaths. A total of 1,729,697 cases were probable. Other communicable diseases, tuberculosis, diarrhoeal diseases, and acute respiratory disease are also big problems.\n\nPapua New Guinea has the highest incidence of HIV and AIDS in the Pacific region and is the fourth country in the Asia Pacific region to fit the criteria for a generalised HIV/AIDS epidemic. Lack of HIV/AIDS awareness is a major problem, especially in rural areas.\n\nThe 2010 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 births for Papua New Guinea was 250. This is compared with 311.9 in 2008 and 476.3 in 1990. The under-5 mortality rate, per 1,000 births is 69 and the neonatal mortality as a percentage of under-5s' mortality is 37. In Papua New Guinea, the number of midwives per 1,000 live births is 1 and the lifetime risk of death for pregnant women is 1 in 94.\n"}
{"id": "59109212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59109212", "title": "Health in the Maldives", "text": "Health in the Maldives\n\nLife expectancy in the Maldives was 77 years in 2011. Infant mortality fell from 34 per 1000 in 1990 to 15 in 2004. There is increasing disparity between health in the capital and the situation on the other islands. There is also a problem of malnutrition. Imported food is expensive.\n\nThe Society for Health Education provides sexual and reproductive health information and services to young people. It is supported by the United Nations Population Fund.\n\nThe proportion of health expenditure in the national budget increased from 8.7% in 1998 to 10.9% in 2000. Total expenditure on health in 2001 was $98. The Maldives has a universal health insurance scheme, Aasandha.\n\nThere are two hospitals in Malé, the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital, which is public and the ADK Hospital which is commercial. On all the inhabited atolls there are primary care facilities, and secondary care with beds on the larger islands. The atoll-based hospitals have trouble getting supplies of medicine:\n\n\nIn 2000 there was a total of 470 hospital beds, a ratio of one bed for each 577 inhabitants.\n"}
{"id": "2778836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2778836", "title": "Helichrysum petiolare", "text": "Helichrysum petiolare\n\nHelichrysum petiolare, licorice-plant, (or liquorice plant), is a species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae, native to South Africa and naturalized in parts of Portugal and the United States. Growing to about high and broad, it is a trailing evergreen subshrub with furry grey-green leaves and small white flowers. Other common names include silver-bush everlastingflower, trailing dusty miller and kooigoed. The foliage has a faint licorice aroma.\n\nIt is cultivated for its foliage effect and as groundcover. This plant prefers sun to part-shade with well-drained soil, being susceptible to root rot and is hardy to zones 9-11, in mild or coastal areas where temperatures do not fall below freezing for extended periods. It requires a sheltered position in full sun.\n\nNumerous cultivars have been developed, of which the following have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit:- \nRather than a single herb, imphepho is a number of herbs (around 250 species) from the genus \"Helichrysum\". The \"Helichrysum\" species used as imphepho grow abundantly in South Africa, Swaziland and Lesotho but especially around coastal areas apart from the largely arid Northern Cape province. \nThe plants grow abundantly in gardens and in the wild, for this reason most imphepho is wild harvested and commercial cultivation in South Africa is unknown. \n\"Helichrysum\" species used as imphepho are hardy and adaptable, they can grow in a wide variety of soil types, are drought resistant, wind resistant and can survive light frost. The seeds are wind dispersed. \nLittle preference is shown for specific types of imphepho, amongst traditional healers, local availability seems more important than a preference for a particular species. There is little evidence for medicinal properties being stronger in certain \"Helichrysum\" species and for ritual purposes they are all treated as exactly the same.\nFor medicinal and ritual purposes, mainly the fresh, or more often dried, areal parts of the plant are used, less commonly the roots.\n\nIts traditional common name of \"kooigoed\" translates as \"bedding stuff\" and it is still used to provide a soft and aromatic mattress. It is listed as a weed in the state of California.\n\nThe essential oil has been investigated for its anti-microbial, anti-oxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties. In South Africa it forms a component of traditional African medicine. The leaves and twigs are boiled and prepared as a sort of tea to soothe coughs and fever. The leaves are also applied to wounds to prevent infection, and are ceremonially burnt to produce a traditional incense.\nIn its ritual use, imphepho is believed to invoke and placate the ancestors and to drive away malicious spirits; since these are regarded as common causes of illness in African traditional medicine, it is not surprising that imphepho is a very important medicinal plant in this traditional medical field. Apart from its traditional importance, imphepho has been widely researched in recent years. A great deal of scientific and anecdotal evidence seems to support the claims of traditional healers. Imphepho is traditionally used as a wound dressing. The plant has proven anti microbial properties and appears to work effectively as pain relief and as an anti-inflammatory, probably due to various volatile oils and flavanoids. Ash from burnt imphepho and fresh or dried areal parts of the plant are common ingredients in wound dressings; burning the plant causes chemical changes to the plant which affect its healing properties. The oils are said to be of great value in healing scars and acne, imphepho is believed to stimulate cellular regeneration. Imphepho is boiled either in water or milk to make a tea, it is used internally to treat coughs, colds, fever, infection, menstrual pain, headaches, insomnia, hypertension and even allergies and diabetes. For pain relief and to treat coughs, colds, bronchitis and other chest infections the plant is burnt and the smoke inhaled. No evidence is available as to how effective imphepho is as a treatment for tuberculosis but the plant's common use in the area and the prevalence of the illness suggest that it may be ineffective.\n\nThe papery flowers of various species come in a range of colours with bright to dull yellow, white, pink and orange being most common. They are popular in flower arrangements and have been used in potpourri.\n\nIn traditional rituals and ceremonies imphepho is burnt in large quantities. It is usually burnt indoors and traditionally in a badly ventilated hut, the herb is used as incense but in such large quantities that it may resemble fumigation. Before and during consultations with the ancestors for the purposes of divination or otherwise, Sangomas will burn imphepho. The areal parts of the plant (leaves, twigs and flowers if the plant is in flower) are collected and tied up in tight bundles which are dried. A bundle of Imphepho can smoulder for quite a long time producing a great deal of smoke.\nThe herb is burnt to invoke, honour and placate the ancestors. Burning Imphepho is seen as a ritual offering. \nThe plant is mainly used in traditional ceremonies and rituals as well as African traditional medicine, but it may be used privately by individuals from time to time to ward off evil, dispel negativity, for meditation or other such purposes. Despite its mild psychoactive properties the plant is not commonly used recreationally as a mind-altering or consciousness-expanding herb. \nUnlike many plants with magical properties ascribed to them which are used in traditional medicine and shamanism, \"Helichrysum\" species do not contain alkaloids, instead a mixture of flavanoids, volatile oils, sesquiterpenoids and acylated phloroglucinols seem to mimic the effects of alkaloid compounds on the central nervous system. \nIn order to experience the effects of imphepho a lot of smoke must be breathed in for a long time.\nEuphoria, ecstasy, uncontrolled giggling and sedation are commonly experienced by people inhaling imphepho smoke. Violent mood swings, mental confusion and personality changes have not been reported. Other symptoms may be more rare and are normally seen in connection to the African traditional beliefs, mild hallucinations (such as seeing everything bathed in a gentle golden light) are seen as 'visions' and \"speaking in tongues\" has been known. Whether these are a result of the effects of the plant or of the psychological state of those involved in the rituals is uncertain. There is no evidence that even prolonged heavy use of imphepho can lead to any sort of physical or psychological dependency and there is no evidence of any health problems arising from prolonged use (apart from those associated with smoke inhalation perhaps). \nImphepho is an important part of African traditional medicine and rituals and the plant is revered, however little to no effort is made to protect areas in which the plant commonly grows. This may be because the plant is very common in Southern Africa. Although the use of imphepho in rituals and ceremonies is normally associated with African traditional beliefs, it is often burned as incense in South African Christian churches. Here it is assumed that its use is similar to that of frankincense and not associated with honouring the ancestors. The plant is commonly available and seldom sold for much money, it is difficult to say whether it is seen as a 'holy' or 'sacred' plant. The plant is believed to increase the spiritual awareness and psychic abilities of those who use it.\nSouth African law protects the right of individuals to burn imphepho as part of ceremonies and rituals associated with traditional beliefs. \nThe dried bundle of imphepho is usually burnt in the middle of a (typically badly ventilated) room or hut in a potsherd. Smoking imphepho through a pipe or in a cigarette is unknown. The smoke has a smell which is not always liked by everyone, it has been described as being similar to mildew and camphor with fenugreek overtones.\n"}
{"id": "21754358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21754358", "title": "Herpesviral encephalitis", "text": "Herpesviral encephalitis\n\nHerpesviral encephalitis is encephalitis due to herpes simplex virus.\n\nHerpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) is a viral infection of the human central nervous system. It is estimated to affect at least 1 in 500,000 individuals per year and some studies suggest an incidence rate of 5.9 cases per 100,000 live births. The majority of cases of herpes encephalitis are caused by herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1), the same virus that causes cold sores. 57% of American adults are infected with HSV-1, which is spread through droplets, casual contact, and sometimes sexual contact, though most infected people never have cold sores. About 10% of cases of herpes encephalitis are due to HSV-2, which is typically spread through sexual contact. About 1 in 3 cases of HSE result from primary HSV-1 infection, predominantly occurring in individuals under the age of 18; 2 in 3 cases occur in seropositive persons, few of whom have history of recurrent orofacial herpes. Approximately 50% of individuals who develop HSE are over 50 years of age.\n\nMost individuals with HSE show a decrease in their level of consciousness and an altered mental state presenting as confusion, and changes in personality. Increased numbers of white blood cells can be found in patient's cerebrospinal fluid, without the presence of pathogenic bacteria and fungi. Patients typically have a fever and may have seizures. The electrical activity of the brain changes as the disease progresses, first showing abnormalities in one temporal lobe of the brain, which spread to the other temporal lobe 7–10 days later. Imaging by CT or MRI shows characteristic changes in the temporal lobes (see Figure). Definite diagnosis requires testing of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by a lumbar puncture (spinal tap) for presence of the virus. The testing takes several days to perform, and patients with suspected Herpes encephalitis should be treated with acyclovir immediately while waiting for test results.\n\nHSE is thought to be caused by the transmission of virus from a peripheral site on the face following HSV-1 reactivation, along a nerve axon, to the brain. The virus lies dormant in the ganglion of the trigeminal cranial nerve, but the reason for reactivation, and its pathway to gain access to the brain, remains unclear, though changes in the immune system caused by stress clearly play a role in animal models of the disease. The olfactory nerve may also be involved in HSE, which may explain its predilection for the temporal lobes of the brain, as the olfactory nerve sends branches there. In horses, a single-nucleotide polymorphism is sufficient to allow the virus to cause neurological disease; but no similar mechanism has been found in humans.\n\nHerpesviral Encephalitis can be treated with high-dose intravenous acyclovir, which should be infused 10 mg/kg(adult) over 1 hour to avoid renal failure. Without treatment, HSE results in rapid death in approximately 70% of cases; survivors suffer severe neurological damage. When treated, HSE is still fatal in one-third of cases, and causes serious long-term neurological damage in over half of survivors. Twenty percent of treated patients recover with minor damage. Only a small population of survivors (2.5%) regain completely normal brain function. Indeed, many amnesic cases in the scientific literature have etiologies involving HSE. Earlier treatment (within 48 hours of symptom onset) improves the chances of a good recovery. Rarely, treated individuals can have relapse of infection weeks to months later. There is evidence that aberrant inflammation triggered by herpes simplex can result in granulomatous inflammation in the brain, which responds to steroids. While the herpes virus can be spread, encephalitis itself is not infectious. Other viruses can cause similar symptoms of encephalitis, though usually milder (Herpesvirus 6, varicella zoster virus, Epstein-Barr, cytomegalovirus, coxsackievirus, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "8770485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8770485", "title": "Institute of Medicine Equation", "text": "Institute of Medicine Equation\n\nThe Institute of Medicine Equation was published in September 2002. It is the equation which is behind the 2005 Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the new food pyramid, MyPyramid.\n\nThe Institute of Medicine equation uses a different approach to most others. The equation doesn't measure basal metabolic rate, but uses experiments based on doubly labelled water. The scientists at the Institute of Medicine said in their report that the factorial method tended to underestimate calorie expenditure.\n\nEER (Estimated Energy Requirement) - the estimated number of daily kilocalories, or Calories, an individual requires in order to maintain his or her current weight.\n\n\nThese equations are for healthy weight children and adults. Correction formulae are used for overweight and obese individuals. These corrections for children and adolescents have been debated by S. J. Woodruff, R. M. Hanning, and S. I. Barr in a paper in Obesity Reviews published January 1, 2009. The issue is whether or not the different formulae are actually necessary or possibly even harmful if overestimate occurs and thus contributes to an even higher and unhealthier body weight in these individuals. However, they are as follows:\n\n\nAll weights are in kilogrammes, heights are in metres, and age is in years. PA is for physical activity coefficient. The activity coefficients are tabulated below:\nSedentary means only the light physical activity associated with independent living, moderately active means about half an hour of moderate to vigorous exercise in addition to this. Active means at least an hour of exercise and very active means being physically active for several hours each day.\n\nThe calculation can be done automatically at these sites:\n\n"}
{"id": "40142454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40142454", "title": "Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise", "text": "Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise\n\nIntegrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) is a non-profit organization based in the US state of Illinois. It sponsors an initiative by the healthcare industry to improve the way computer systems share information. IHE was established in 1998 by a consortium of radiologists and information technology (IT) experts.\n\nIHE created and operates a process through which interoperability of health care IT systems can be improved. The group gathers case requirements, identifies available standards, and develops technical guidelines which manufacturers can implement. IHE also stages \"connectathons\" and \"interoperability showcases\" in which vendors assemble to demonstrate the interoperability of their products.\n\nIHE is sponsored by the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS), the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA), and the American College of Cardiology (ACC). The eye care domain is sponsored by the American Academy of Ophthalmology.\n\nIHE integration profiles describe a clinical information need or workflow scenario and document how to use established standards to accomplish it. A group of systems that implement the same integration profile address the need/scenario in a mutually compatible way.\n\nFor example, the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standards specify many different formats for image data. A given set of images that might comply with some optional parts of the standards might still not be accepted by an application in use by a particular radiologist. Profiles reduce the chances of these incompatibilities.\n\nThe Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) standard codes for use in databases are often used in IHE profiles.\n\nA model for cross-enterprise document sharing called XDS allows hospitals to share electronic records that use the Health Level 7 (HL7) standards and LOINC codes.\nThe United States Department of Veterans Affairs revised its plans in 1999 to adopt IHE recommendations.\n\nIHE integration statements are prepared and published by a vendor to list the IHE profiles supported by a specific release of a specific product.\n\nIHE technical frameworks are detailed documents which specify the integration profiles and associated actors (systems) and transactions.\n\nIHE connectathons are annual events where equipment vendors bring products with IHE profiles and test them with other vendors. The events are held in Europe, USA, Korea, Japan and Australia. The term \"connectathon\" was coined in the 1980s by Sun Microsystems for similar vendor-neutral interoperability testing of the Network File System protocols and related technologies. The first NFS Connectathon was held in 1985.\n\nIn 2008, an agreement was announced for cooperation with the Continua Health Alliance.\n\nIn 2012, a guide was published on access to health data from mobile devices.\n\nAlthough in 2004 an estimate was that complete interoperability could be completed in ten years, by 2013 results were still mixed.\n\nIn 2013, co-chairs were David Mendelson, director of clinical informatics at Mount Sinai Medical Center and Elliot B. Sloane of the Center for Healthcare Information Research and Policy and research professor at Drexel University.\n"}
{"id": "1984494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984494", "title": "International Headache Society", "text": "International Headache Society\n\nThe International Headache Society (IHS) is a charity membership organisation founded in 1981 for those with a professional commitment to helping people affected by headache.\n\nIt has over 1,000 ordinary members (including national society members). The society publishes an international journal \"Cephalalgia\". The society was incorporated in 1994 in England and Wales as a Company Limited by Guarantee and registered in 1995 as a charity.\n\nThe International Headache Congress (IHC) is held every second year, organized and hosted on behalf of IHS by a member national society.\n\n"}
{"id": "58120677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58120677", "title": "James Roderick Johnston Cameron", "text": "James Roderick Johnston Cameron\n\nJames Roderick Johnston Cameron PPRCSE (1902–1997) was a 20th century Scottish surgeon who served as President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh from 1967 to 1970.\n\nHe was born on 24 June 1902 in Belfast the son of a dentist of Scottish descent, and originally trained as a dentist.\n\nHe studied Medicine at Edinburgh University and did postgraduate studies at the University of Montreal and McGill University developing an interest in neurosurgery under Prof Wilder Penfield. Returning to Britain he became an assistant surgeon at Leith Hospital then in 1939 got a position at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. At the outbreak of the Second World War he joined the Royal Army Medical Corps. He landed at Narvik following the D-Day landings. A hand injury prevented him from operating and he was posted to the Chasseurs Alpins (Les Diables Bleu) as their Medical Officer. He returned to Edinburgh after the war and specialised in thyroid treatment.\n\nHe died in Edinburgh on 23 February 1997. He is buried in Grange Cemetery. The simple stone lies in the south-west section.\n\nIn 1940, just prior to going to war, he was married to Dorothy Margaret Pearson (1913-1995). She was an artist and her portrait of James is held in the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. They had two sons and two daughters.\n"}
{"id": "58432242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58432242", "title": "Judith Elizabeth Hall", "text": "Judith Elizabeth Hall\n\nJudith Elizabeth Hall is Professor of Anaesthetics, Intensive Care and Pain Medicine at Cardiff University. She leads the Phoenix Project, a Cardiff University partnership with the University of Namibia that seeks to reduce poverty, promote health and support sustainable environmental development.\n\nProfessor Hall is a Consultant anaesthetist at Cardiff and Vale University Health Board, Director of MediWales, a life science network for Wales, and a council member for the Royal College of Anaesthetists.\n\nHall is the founder of the charity Mothers of Africa and through her charity work is contributing to the improvement of maternal mortality in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nIn 2006 she developed the first medical simulation suite in Cardiff University's School of Medicine.\n\nIn 2011 Hall developed a device to prevent potentially fatal 'wrong-route' injections of drugs into wrong parts of the body, making use of colour-coded and shaped connectors that are designed to be used in only one area.\n\nHer research degree was awarded by the University of Wales, College of Medicine.\n\nProfessor Hall leads Cardiff University’s Phoenix Project in collaboration with the University of Namibia. This engagement project works with communities in Cardiff and beyond, particularly in Namibia, on projects in health, education and poverty reduction. It has 40 sub-projects, including doctor and nurse education, developing the software sector in Namibia, work around the value of culture and languages in young people, and enabling police and ambulance services to save lives in road traffic collisions.\n\nIn October 2018 Hall and Dr Brian Jenkins will deliver specialist nurse training in Namibia which is unavailable across much of southern Africa, including post-operative pain management, interpreting blood results, and monitoring the respiratory system. It is the first specialist nurse training outside midwifery in Namibia. Hall was personally asked to set up the specialist nurse training by Namibia’s deputy minister of health and social services Hon Julieta Kavetuna.\n\nHall was a Welsh Woman of the Year 2008-9. In 2011 Hall was awarded the MediWales NHS Award for Innovation working with Industry, MediWales Industry Award for Innovation, Insider Wales Innovation Wales Award, and a Personal Recognition Award for Contribution to Patient Safety from the Welsh Government.\n\nIn 2013 Hall was awarded an OBE in the New Year Honours List, for services to academic anaesthesia and charitable services in Africa.\n\nShe is Project Lead on the Phoenix Project, which won International Collaboration of the Year in the Times Higher Education Awards in 2017. The project won a St David Award in 2018, which recognises exceptional achievements of people and groups in Wales. The award was presented by First Minister Carwyn Jones at the Senedd in Cardiff.\n\nIn July 2018 Hall was awarded an Honorary Fellowship by the University of Wales Trinity Saint David, at a graduation ceremony in Brangwyn Hall in Swansea, Wales.\n"}
{"id": "7049766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7049766", "title": "Kuma–Manych Canal", "text": "Kuma–Manych Canal\n\nThe Kuma–Manych Canal () is an irrigation canal in Russia's Stavropol Krai. The canal, completed in 1965, runs across the Kuma–Manych Depression, connecting the Kuma River, which flows into the Caspian Sea, with the East Manych River, which also flows toward the Caspian, but dries out long before reaching it. The East Manych River should not be confused with the West Manych, a tributary of the Don which flows into the Sea of Azov and connects to the Black Sea.\n\nThe Kuma–Manych Canal begins near the village of Novokumsky on the Kuma River, between the cities of Budyonnovsk and Neftekumsk. Its starting point is at a small reservoir on the Kuma River () into which the Terek–Kuma Canal (Терско–Кумский канал; completed 1958) brings the Terek water from the south. From there, the Kuma–Manych Canal carries water first toward the north-east, and then toward the north-west, ending at the southern shore of the Chogray Reservoir on the East Manych River; Google maps show a small peninsula, formed by the alluvial deposits at the canal's end point there ().\n\nIn June 2007, the leaders of Kazakhstan suggested that Russia build a much deeper canal (dubbed Eurasia Canal) along the bottom of the Kuma–Manych Depression, suitable for large-ship navigation between the Caspian Sea and the Black Sea. The Kazakhstan Academy of Sciences started conducting a review of possible routes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32529210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32529210", "title": "Lac du Verney", "text": "Lac du Verney\n\nLac du Verney is an artificial reservoir in the department of Isère, in the Rhône-Alpes of France. It serves as the lower reservoir for the Grand'Maison Dam pumped-storage scheme.\n\nNeighbouring lakeside communities include Oz and Allemond.\n\nSince 2006 it has hosted the opening swim of the Alpe d'Huez Triathlon.\n"}
{"id": "2110280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2110280", "title": "Lake Arenal", "text": "Lake Arenal\n\nLake Arenal () is a lake which is situated in the northern highlands of Costa Rica. It is currently the largest lake in Costa Rica at . Its depth varies between 30 and 60 meters (100–200 feet) seasonally.\n\nThe town of Arenal was relocated to higher ground when the lake was expanded in 1979. The old towns of Arenal and Tronadora now lie abandoned at the bottom of the lake, with the new town of Arenal existing to the northeast on the lake.\n\nLake Arenal was tripled in size with the construction of the Arenal dam in 1979, which exists at the eastern end of the lake. This hydroelectric project is hugely important to Costa Rica, initially generating 70% of the country's electricity, now closer to 17%, and was also a driving force behind Costa Rica's green energy policy.\n\nFish species in Lake Arenal the machaca and the rainbow bass. There are also many species of plants, 120 mammals (including jaguar and tapir), and 300 birds (including quetzal).\n\nFrom November through April the strong, dependable winds attract windsurfers and kite surfers to its western end. Many consider Lake Arenal one of the world's foremost windsurfing and kite surfing areas. Wakeboarding is gaining popularity in Costa Rica, with Lake Arenal being the center of this activity. Stand up paddling and kayaking are also popular activities for tourists visiting the lake's Eastern part near the earthen dam. There are many good fishing (primarily for rainbow bass) and now kayak fishing opportunities in the shallow and secluded coves. The area surrounding the lake has good hiking, biking, bird watching, and horseback riding opportunities.\n\n"}
{"id": "236333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236333", "title": "List of diseases (B)", "text": "List of diseases (B)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"B\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBrachyc\nBrachyd\nBrachydactyly\nBrachydactyly a – Brachydactyly s\nBrachydactyly t\nBrachym–Brachyt\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7671190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7671190", "title": "List of disorders of foot and ankle", "text": "List of disorders of foot and ankle\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35835032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35835032", "title": "Malnutrition in Tibet", "text": "Malnutrition in Tibet\n\nMalnutrition is an important health concern in Tibet. According to a study conducted in 1994/1995 in eleven districts of Tibet, malnutrition affected more than half of the children from 1–7 years old. The major cause was poverty.\n\n"}
{"id": "39083031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39083031", "title": "Mazum reservoir", "text": "Mazum reservoir\n\nThe Mazum Dam is located near Modasa, Gujarat in India. it is built on small river called Mazum which may the reason it has been named as Mazum dam. it is located in Aravalli District of Gujarat near Modasa town. it is about 9 km away from modasa. This dam supplies water, allowing farmers to harvest their crops and is also used when nearby towns are running out of water.\n"}
{"id": "36653574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36653574", "title": "Murder of Segametsi Mogomotsi", "text": "Murder of Segametsi Mogomotsi\n\nSegametsi Mogomotsi was a 14-year-old schoolgirl who was found murdered on 6 November 1994 in Mochudi, Botswana. She went missing sometime on 5 November, and her body was found naked and mutilated in an open space the next morning. The \"dipheko\" (medicine murder) sparked protests by the students at the Radikolo Community Junior Secondary School (RCJSS), the school where she attended, as well as among the citizens of Mochudi. The protests led to riots in neighbouring Gaborone, prompting the government of Botswana to call in the Scotland Yard. No one has been formally charged with the murder, and an official police report was conducted, but as of August 2012, the results have not yet been released. The murder inspired the stories in Unity Dow's novel \"The Screaming of the Innocent\", Michael Stanley's mystery \"Deadly Harvest\", and Alexander McCall Smith novel \"The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency\".\n\n\"Dipheko\" is the ritual murder of a person whose body parts are cut off to make \"muti\" (medicine) that is used to promote business deals. Dipheko is not uncommon in Botswana. The British dealt with ritual murder cases when the country was still a protectorate as early as the 1930s, and social scientist Cyprian Fisiy has called witchcraft \"the primary concern of most African communities\". Children, especially highly educated students, are the primary targets of dipheko because of their perceived potential for success. When social anthropologist Ørnulf Gulbrandsen interviewed several Batswana, one man said that, \"we have no other way to explain how some people become rich overnight\". Those who committed dipheko recount either being possessed to murder or being threatened by future attacks through \"boloi\" (witchcraft) and thus were coerced to kill.\n\nIn November 1996, anthropologist Charlanne Burke interviewed a student who summarised the murder:\n\nSegametsi's stepfather was arrested after confessing that he and other local businessmen killed the girl, but he retracted his statement, saying that the confession was really a second-hand account. While the named businessmen were arrested, they were released, sparking controversy in Mochudi. In 2008, Sekobye Mokgalo, one of the named businessmen, asked for government compensation for the wrongful conviction. In 2009, he received 300,000 Botswana pula for damages from the government.\n\nIn January 1995, students at Radikolo Community Junior Secondary School organized a march at the District Commissioner's office in Mochudi in response \"perceived [...] government collusion in the practice of witchcraft\". The march escalated into riots and protesters burned the house of the suspects. The violence continued in Gaborone starting on 16 February 1995. An \"ad hoc\" group, the Revolutionary War Council, pressed for justice \"without [the] state's intervention.\" The Special Services Group, the riot police of the Botswana Defence Force, used tear gas on protesters in the central business district while students at the University of Botswana stormed an ongoing meeting of the National Assembly of Botswana. President Quett Masire issued a statement in response to the protests:\n\nBoth rioters and police were injured: more than fifteen protesters were treated for rubber bullet wounds at the Deborah Relief Memorial Hospital, a small boy was killed and a bystander was paralyzed; both by police rubber bullets. A man was later executed by the police for the protests. The Botswana National Front Youth League criticized the government's response to the riots, saying that the military force was \"not in keeping with democratic practice and may signal the emergence of a police/military state\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30874268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30874268", "title": "National Children's Study", "text": "National Children's Study\n\nThe National Children’s Study (NCS) was a longitudinal cohort study that planned to recruit participants from across the United States of America. It was intended to measure the many factors that contribute to health and disease from before birth through age 21. This included, but was not limited to, the search for drivers of diseases with prenatal or developmental origins. The Study was closed in December 2014.\n\nThe NCS was led by the National Institutes of Health, with the \"Eunice Kennedy Shriver\" National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) serving as the scientific lead. Within NICHD, the NCS Program Office administered the implementation of day-to-day Study operations. The Program Office was supervised by the Study Director, Steven Hirschfeld, MD, PhD Associate Director for Clinical Research, NICHD.\n\nFor advice and recommendations regarding Study framework, content, and methodologies, the NCS Program Office engaged external advisors and scientific groups. These groups included federal partners such as the NCS Federal Advisory Committee and a Federal Consortium with representatives from multiple federal agencies including: the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences of the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. An independent Study Monitoring and Oversight Committee monitored study progress and participant safety.\n\nIn addition to these more formal channels, the NCS solicited feedback from subject matter experts from around the world and from individuals, community advocates, and professional societies concerned with child health. The NCS Program Office also provided public forums for input on a variety of initiatives.\n\nThe \"President’s Task Force on Health Risks and Safety Risks to Children\" recommended this federal initiative in 1999, after which Congress passed the Children's Health Act of 2000 (Title X, Section 1004). The Act charged NICHD to:\n\n\nThe Act required this NCS to:\n\nThe NCS was designed to examine the effects of the environment—broadly defined to include factors such as air, water, diet, sound, family dynamics, community, and cultural influences— and genetics on the growth, development, and health of children across the United States. The NCS was designed to follow approximately 100,000 children, some from before birth, through age 21 years. The NCS planned to collect comprehensive information to:\n\nWith this broad perspective, the NCS was designed to contribute to the implementation of health equity, where each individual has an opportunity to realize their health potential.\n\nThe NCS was in its Vanguard, or pilot phase, which was designed to assess the feasibility, acceptability, cost, and utility of Study scientific output, logistics, and operations prior to initiating the Main Study. The Vanguard Study enrolled about 5,000 children in 40 counties across the United States. General recruitment was completed in July 2013.\n\nOn December 12, 2014, the National Children’s Study closed, after an expert review committee advised the NIH Director that moving forward with the larger Main Study would not be the best way to add to the understanding of how environmental and genetic factors influence child health and development.\n\nThe NCS will not collect any new information from participants.\n\nThe NIH plans to make data already collected available to researchers in late 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "3661902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3661902", "title": "Novocherkassk massacre", "text": "Novocherkassk massacre\n\nThe Novocherkassk massacre refers to events tied to the labor strike at a locomotive building plant in Novocherkassk, a city in the Russian SFSR, Soviet Union. The events eventually culminated into the protests of June 1–2, 1962 when reportedly 26 protesters were killed by Soviet Army troops, and 87 were wounded.\n\nThe riots were a direct result of shortages of food and provisions, as well as the poor working conditions in the factory. The protest began on June 1 in the \"Budyonny Electric Locomotive Factory\", when workers from the foundry and forge shops stopped work after factory management refused to hear their complaints. The strike and attendant discussions had spread throughout the whole factory by noon.\n\nThe unrest began when Nikita Khrushchev raised the prices of meat and butter throughout the Soviet Union on June 1st. On the same day, as required by a separate economic plan, the minimum production quotas for each worker at the factory were increased, thereby effectively reducing pay rates. This culminated in a march on the town hall and police headquarters, and the strike spread to other enterprises after police arrested thirty workers.\n\nAccording to documents declassified in 90's, motorized infantry units were called to suppress the protesters, but they fired in the air, and the lethal fire came from a unit of Internal troops, from Rostov-on-Don composed of 10 snipers and 2 machine guns, who were set up at the \"Don\" hotel. Orders to kill were approved through the whole chain of command, from Khrushchev, through the ministry of defense.\n\nThe Commander of the North-Caucasian Troops, general Kuzmich Shapochnikov, refused to execute an order to attack peaceful demonstrators with tanks (he reportedly said, \"I don't see any enemy that we could turn our weapons against\"), for which he was later degraded and arrested.\n\nAccording to now available official sources, 26 protesters were killed by the machine-gun-equipped Soviet Army troops, and 87 were wounded with 3 of those dying later of their wounds. After the initial demonstrations, a curfew was implemented in the town. The dead bodies were secretly buried in the cemeteries of other towns of the Rostov Oblast. However, the following morning, a large group of several hundred demonstrators again gathered in the square. One hundred and sixteen were arrested, of which fourteen were convicted by show trials, seven of those receiving a death sentence and were executed. The others were sentenced to prison terms of ten to fifteen years.\n\nFollowing the incident, the Soviet government directed extra food supplies to the region and began an investigation. Additional arrests of workers followed, as did courts martial of military officials involved. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn claimed that individuals wounded in the unrest and their families were exiled to Siberia.\n\nThe whole story was never allowed to appear in the press or any other Soviet mass media and remained an official secret until 1992, when the remains of 20 bodies were recovered and identified in 1992 and buried in the cemetery of Novoshakhtinsk.\n\nDuring a Politburo scene in \"The Devil's Alternative\" (1979) by author Frederick Forsyth, the KGB chief, asked if he could suppress riots during famine, responds that the KGB could suppress ten, even twenty Novocherkassks, but not fifty – intentionally using the example to highlight how serious the difficulties would be that the Soviet Union finds itself in the novel.\n\nThe massacre is dramatized in Francis Spufford's 2010 novel \"Red Plenty\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19273821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19273821", "title": "Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990", "text": "Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990\n\nThe Nutrition Labeling and Education Act (NLEA) (Public Law 101-535) is a 1990 United States Federal law. It was signed into law on November 8, 1990 by President George H. W. Bush.\n\nThe law gives the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authority to require nutrition labeling of most foods regulated by the Agency; and to require that all nutrient content claims (for example, 'high fiber', 'low fat', etc.) and health claims meet FDA regulations. The act did not require restaurants to comply with the same standards.\n\nThe regulations became effective for health claims, ingredient declarations, and percent juice labeling on May 8, 1993 (but percent juice labeling was exempted until May 8, 1994).\n\nEffective Jan. 1, 2006, the Nutrition Facts Labels on packaged food products are required by the FDA to list how many grams of trans fatty acid (trans fat) are contained within one serving of the product.\n\nSenator Orrin Hatch of Utah introduced the Health Freedom Act of 1992 which would have blocked the FDA from using health claims as a reason to regulate dietary supplements as drugs. The senator said he \"entered the controversy after hearing from constituents in his home state, including both consumers and makers of dietary supplements\". Hatch stated that the FDA \"can put anybody out of business if they want to.\" Hatch's bill did not get very far, but it encouraged Congress to pass the Dietary Supplement Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-571), which blocked the FDA from applying its forthcoming labeling rules for conventional foods to dietary supplements for another year, until the end of 1993.\n\nThe Nutritional Health Alliance, an industry lobby group, claimed credit for getting the Dietary Supplement Act of 1992 passed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49183081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49183081", "title": "Occupational skin diseases", "text": "Occupational skin diseases\n\nOccupational skin diseases are ranked among the top five occupational diseases in many countries.\n\nContact Dermatitis due to irritation is inflammation of the skin which results from a contact with an irritant. It has been observed that this type of dermatitis does not require prior sensitization of the immune system. There have been studies to support that past or present atopic dermatitis is a risk factor for this type of dermatitis. Common irritants include detergents, acids, alkalies, oils, organic solvents and reducing agents.\n\nThe acute form of this dermatitis develops on exposure of the skin to a strong irritant or caustic chemical. This exposure can occur as a result of accident at a workplace . The irritant reaction starts to increase in its intensity within minutes to hours of exposure to the irritant and reaches its peak quickly. After the reaction has reached its peak level, it starts to heal. This process is known as decrescendo phenomenon. The most frequent potent irritants leading to this type of dermatitis are acids and alkaline solutions. The symptoms include redness and swelling of the skin along with the formation of blisters.\n\nThe chronic form occurs as a result of repeated exposure of the skin to weak irritants over long periods of time.\n\nClinical manifestations of the contact dermatitis are also modified by external factors such as environmental factors (mechanical pressure, temperature, and humidity) and predisposing characteristics of the individual (age, sex, ethnic origin, preexisting skin disease, atopic skin diathesis, and anatomic region exposed.\n\nAnother occupational skin disease is glove-related hand urticaria, believed to be caused by repeated wearing and removal of the gloves. It has been reported as an occupational problem among the health care workers. The reaction is caused by the latex or the nitrile present in the gloves.\n\nPrevention measures include avoidance of the irritant through its removal from the workplace or through technical shielding by the use of potent irritants in closed systems or automation, irritant replacement or removal and personal protection of the workers. Low quality evidence exists for the effectiveness of certain therapies and their ability to specifically prevent hand skin irritation in the workplace. The limited evidence that does exist suggests that moisturizers used alone or in combination with a barrier cream can result in a clinically beneficial effect in the long or short-term primary prevention of occupational irritant hand dermatitis. \n"}
{"id": "39542164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39542164", "title": "Philip Morris v. Uruguay", "text": "Philip Morris v. Uruguay\n\nThe Philip Morris v. Uruguay case () started on 19 February 2010, when the multinational tobacco company Philip Morris International filed a complaint against Uruguay. \nThe company complains that Uruguay's anti-smoking legislation devalues its cigarette trademarks and investments in the country and is suing Uruguay for compensation under the bilateral investment treaty between Switzerland and Uruguay. (Philip Morris is headquartered in Lausanne.)\n\nThe treaty provides that disputes are settled by binding arbitration before the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID).\n\nUruguay had received accolades from the World Health Organization and from anti-smoking activists for its anti-smoking campaign.\n\nOn 8 July 2016, after 6 years, the ICSID ruled in favor of Uruguay, forcing the demandant to pay the expenses of the defendants and the court.\n\nOn 19 June 2003, when the Uruguayan President was Jorge Batlle, the General Assembly of Uruguay approved the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, an agreement whereby Policies recommended by the World Health Organization were implemented.\n\nIn 2006, Uruguay under President Tabaré Vázquez, an oncologist by profession, began to enact comprehensive anti-smoking legislation.\nOn 1 March 2006, Uruguay became the first country in Latin America to prohibit smoking in enclosed public spaces. In March 2008 the legislature approved Law 18.256 which includes six strategies of anti-smoking policy.\n\nSome of the measures by the government were the ban on selling different types of presentations of the same brand of cigarettes, the dissemination of images warning about the risks of smoking and covering at least 80% of the cigarette pack, raising of taxes, banning cigarette advertising in the media, and banning sponsorship of sports events. In addition, smoking was banned in public places such as offices, student centers, bars, restaurants, dances and public places, among others.\n\nThe smokefree campaign \"Libre de Humo de Tabaco\" was gradually implemented by the \"Ministerio de Salud Pública del Uruguay\" (Ministry of Public Health of Uruguay).\n\nPhilip Morris International is a multinational company, a leading producer of cigarettes, of which it owns seven out of twenty global brands.\n\nThe tobacco company initiated a claim in the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID), a part of the World Bank seeking $25 million in compensation from Uruguay. In that forum, an arbitration tribunal was formed with one arbitrator appointed by each party and a third arbitrator elected by the arbitrators appointed by the parties. The plaintiffs are FTR Holding SA (Switzerland), Philip Morris Products SA (Switzerland) and Abal Hermanos SA (PMI representative in Uruguay) against Uruguay (ICSID Case No. ARB/10/7).\n\nPhilip Morris has filed similar cases against Norway and Australia.\n\nOn 2 July 2013, the tribunal decided it had jurisdiction.\n\nThe resolution of the case, which affected international jurisprudence, took 6 years; the case ended on 8 July 2016. The World Bank [ICSID] ruled in favor of Uruguay, forcing the demandant to pay the costs of the defendants and the court.\nThe final report established that Philip Morris had to pay 7 million dollars to the country for judicial expenses, in addition to paying different amounts for the fees and administrative expenses of the three arbitrators and the CADI. Gary Born emitted a discordant decision in two of the points of the judicial failure.\n\nAfter its victory in the case, the government declared that from 2017 cigarettes in Uruguay will be sold in generic packaging.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) and the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) supported Uruguay. Uruguay's anti-smoking efforts also received support from past New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, and from Bernard Borel, Swiss deputy from the Canton of Vaud.\n\nPAHO made a statement praising the decision:\n\nAccording to Enrico Bonadio, Senior Lecturer in Law at City University London, the ruling in the case \"may make it more difficult for tobacco companies to use lawsuits to produce a “chilling effect” and so discourage countries from introducing tobacco control policies.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9090858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9090858", "title": "Portable appliance testing", "text": "Portable appliance testing\n\nPortable appliance testing (commonly known as \"PAT\", \"PAT inspection\" or (redundantly) as \"PAT testing\") is the name of a process in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, New Zealand and Australia by which electrical appliances are routinely checked for safety. The formal term for the process is \"in-service inspection & testing of electrical equipment\". Testing involves a visual inspection of the equipment and any flexible cables for good condition, and also where required, verification of earthing (grounding) continuity, and a test of the soundness of insulation between the current carrying parts, and any exposed metal that may be touched. The formal limits for pass/fail of these electrical tests vary somewhat depending on the category of equipment being tested.\n\nSimilar procedures exist in other countries, for example, testing of equipment according to \"DGUV Vorschrift 3\" in Germany.\n\nHealth and safety regulations require that electrical appliances are safe and maintained to prevent harm to workers. Many equipment manufacturers recommend testing at regular intervals to ensure continual safety; the interval between tests depending on both the type of appliance and the environment in which it is to be used. The European Low Voltage Directive governs the manufacture or importation of electrical appliances. Compliance to this has to be declared and indicated by the display of the CE mark on the product. The responsibility for this lies with the manufacturer or the importer and is policed by Trading Standards.\n\nTesting equipment has been specifically developed for PAT inspections, based on the testing equipment used by manufacturers to ensure compliance with the British Standard Code of Practice and European product standards relevant to that type of appliance. This in turn allows testing and the interpretation of results to be de-skilled to a large extent. The inspection of the appliances can largely be carried out in-house in many organisations. This can result in cost savings and more flexibility as to exactly when a PAT is carried out.\n\nPortable appliance testing is abbreviated as PAT. The correct term for the whole process is \"In-service Inspection & Testing of Electrical Equipment\" (as defined by IET/IEE and City and Guilds).\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand, the common name for PAT is simply 'Test and Tag'. The regulatory guidelines are set out in AS/NZS3760:2010.\n\nBritish law (the Electricity at Work Regulations 1989) requires that all electrical systems (including electrical appliances) are maintained (so far as is reasonably practicable) to prevent danger. Private houses are not covered by this legislation, although occupiers' liability requires householders not to deliberately expose occupants or visitors to unreasonable risks. The HSE and the local authority are responsible for the policing of this legislation.\n\nGuidance from the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET, published under the IEE brand) and the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) recommends that a competent person must inspect the installation regularly in any public building or a place that people work. They suggest initial intervals for combined inspection and testing that range from three months (for construction equipment) to one year, and in many cases, longer periods for re-testing (certain types of appliance in schools, hotels, offices and shops).\n\nAlthough the Electricity at Work Regulations 1989 is an obligation on UK businesses, there is no obligation to undertake PAT inspection. In reality neither act nor their corresponding regulations and associated statutory instruments detail PAT inspection as an obligation, but rather impose a requirement of maintenance of safety and evidence of routine maintenance for all hand-held, portable and plug-in equipment.\n\nToday a great many private companies and other organizations do meet their legal obligations to protect their workers by an enforced PAT regime, but it is not the only route.\n\nRecent HSE publications have relaxed their tone somewhat to acknowledge this, and now point out that in many situations annual PAT is disproportionate to the risks and is often not required. In 2011, the HSE reviewed its approach to portable appliance maintenance in its own offices. Thinking about the type of equipment in use, and how it was used, the HSE looked back at the results from its annual testing of portable appliances across its estate over the last five years. Using the results of the previous tests, the HSE decided that further portable appliance tests are not needed within the foreseeable future or at all for certain types of portable equipment. Also, they decided to continue to monitor any faults reported as a result of user checks and visual inspections and review its maintenance system if evidence suggests that it needs revising. Electrical equipment will continue to be maintained by a series of user checks and visual inspections by staff that have had some training.\n\nAnnual portable appliance testing is not always necessary in low risk environments.\nYou do not need to be qualified as an electrician to carry out visual inspections.\nRegular user checks and visual inspections can be a good method of maintaining portable electric equipment.\nFor landlords maintaining legal requirements it is not compulsory for them to have all appliances tested, but they do need to show a \"duty of care\" and most letting agents recommend that a test certificate is obtained.\n\nThe earliest formal portable appliance testing and inspection of both electrical installations and high risk equipment was introduced in the UK in government estates. This was under the control of the Property Services Agency – prior to 1972 the Ministry of Public Building and Works. In some cases testing was conducted on a three-month (high-risk) and six-month (low-risk) cycle from the early 1960s onwards. Extensive record-keeping was made into log-books and generally the equipment used was an insulation resistance tester, simple hand tools and visual inspection. Evidence of testing was clearly visible to workers in the form of \"passed\", \"tested for electrical safety\" and \"do not use after...\" labels affixed to various parts of the electrical equipment used. This early testing and inspection was done under a planned maintenance scheme and pre-dated both the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and the Electricity at Work Act 1989.\n\nIn the UK there is no legal instrument that requires a sub-contractor to ensure that all tools and equipment are PAT inspected before bringing onto a site of work. Neither is there any legal instrument which obliges the site owner to ensure third-party equipment is PAT inspected either by themselves or the equipment owner.\n\nThe internal policies of many UK businesses and educational establishments make mistaken reference to PAT inspection being a legal requirement under the Electricity at Work Regulations, which is false. Having such a policy is legitimate for internal reasons, but it is not underwritten by law, it is only their interpretation. Therefore, it is not a legal requirement to have a PAT inspection sticker or certificate, the obligation is that equipment must be safe.\n\nThe HSE recommend policies use phrases such as \"Equipment that is brought onto site for an event must be in a safe condition\" and refrain from overzealous statements such as \"must be PAT inspected\" which can be restrictive without improving safety. Overall it is safer if a competent person makes a visual inspection than if a layman merely observes the presence of a sticker.\n\nThis can be done by hiring an external company to test all the electrical products in a business (someone who has had some PAT training, either by an official qualification or by attending a health and safety course offered by some electrical health and safety companies) or it can be done in-house by a competent person. In a low-risk environment most dangerous defects can be found simply by checking the appliances for obvious signs of damage such as frayed cables.\n\nAdvising the user of potential danger signs can result in problems being picked up before they can result in any danger. For example, if the power cable is frayed or the plug is cracked, users need to be advised not to use the appliance and report the fault to a supervisor. This information can be put across, say by the use of a poster or in a memo. User checks are always carried out before operation, and the results are generally not recorded, unless a defect is identified.\n\nThis is a process of simply inspecting the appliance, the cable and the plug for any obvious signs of damage. According to the HSE, this process can find more than 90% of faults.\n\nAt periodic intervals, the portable appliances are tested to measure that the degree of protection to ensure that it is adequate. At these intervals, a formal visual inspection is carried out and then followed by PAT testing. Note the inside of the plug should be checked unless it is moulded or there is an unbroken seal covering the screws (bad internal wiring or an unsuitable fuse would cause the item to be classed as dangerous).\n\nThe tests an appliance is required to undergo will depend on the type of appliance, its electrical Class and subject to a risk assessment by the technician. e.g. it may not be safe to perform a leakage current test which powers up the appliance, such as a grinder, if it can not be secured to a bench; an insulation resistance test may be a safe option.\n\nThis test shows the resistance offered by the earthing rods with the connection leads. Various testing instruments are available for earthing resistance tests. The earthing resistance should be less than 1Ω.\n\nThe equipment shall have a measured resistance of the protective earth circuit, or the earthing conductor of an extension cord or appliance cord set, which does not exceed 1Ω.\n\nTesting is performed using an ohmmeter or PAT tester;\n\nThe choice of which of the tests to use is at the operator's discretion as there is merit in each test for given situations. Later model testers that are battery powered are limited to doing the \"screen test\". Older mains powered units can do all tests. Even \"type testing\" may only be testing at a fraction of the operational power of the unit.The power dissipated in the earth is only 300 watts compared to operational power which may be in excess of 2000 watts.\n\nA leakage current test performed at rated voltage with values not exceeding 5mA for Class I appliances or 1mA for Class II appliances.\n\nAlternatively, measure insulation resistance values are not less than 1MΩ for Class I and Class II appliances at 500 V d.c. or alternatively, to avoid the equipment apparently failing the test because the metal oxide varistors (MOVs), or electro-magnetic interference (EMI) suppression has triggered, for equipment containing voltage limiting devices such as MOVs, or EMI suppression, at 250 V d.c.\n\nLeakage current testing is performed using a PAT by applying a nominal voltage to the live conductors (active and neutral) of an appliance, and placing 0 volt reference on the earthed parts of a Class I appliance or the external metal parts of a Class II appliance;\n\nInsulation resistance testing is performed using an ohmmeter or portable appliance tester by applying a nominal voltage to the live conductors (active and neutral) of an appliance, and placing 0 volt reference on the earthed parts of a Class I appliance or the external metal parts of a Class II appliance;\n\nA deficiency of the insulation resistance (500V/250V d.c) test is that the d.c voltage will not activate electromagnetic switches or internal relays etc. that are common in many modern power tools, computers, TVs etc. and therefore it can only test the appliance up to that point. Appliances with these components / design should be tested using the leakage current test.\n\nIn countries where the sockets are polarised, polarity testing is a simple test that can be carried out using a polarity tester to determine whether the active and neutral of the plug end are correctly connected to the corresponding terminals at the socket end. Note: The earth is tested during the earth continuity test. In the UK, as per BS7671, the phase ('Live' or 'Hot') cable should connect with right hand side terminal of the socket (if we face the socket outlet).\n\n\n\nThere are two tests methods to be used;\n\nThis test requires specific test equipment RCD tester:\n\n(the TEST button referred to here is the test button on the RCD tester NOT the TEST button on the RCD itself. If the RCD is live, pressing the RCD's own TEST button should ALWAYS trip the RCD).\n\nThe RCD tester should be connected with the socket, with earth terminal (must !!) and \n1)select the testing range 'delta' (10mA,30mA,100mA,300mA,500mA).\n2)Select half delta range, and press TEST button - the RCD should not operate, this ensures against nuisance tripping.\n3)Select delta range, and press TEST button - The RCD should operate, within m Sec for 50 Hz,230V system (as per BS 7671)\n\nThis test requires specialised test equipment, knowledge and training;\n\nIn addition to this, many technicians also test;\n\nBest Practice is to test the RCD under 1/2, 1X and 5X rated tripping current, each at both the 0 degree and 180 degree phases.\n\nThere are two specific extra checks mandated for microwave ovens in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe first is that the device immediately ceases production of the microwave radiation when the door is opened, which checks that the safety interlock systems are functional; and the second is that any leakage when operating is less than 5 mWcm which indicates that the door and casing are not distorted and any seals are intact so that there is no hazard to those in the vicinity of the equipment.\n\nA piece of calibrated equipment is required for these tests to detect and measure leakage of the 2.4 GHz microwave radiation, it is usually a hand-held device with a sensing antenna that can be scanned over the areas where the door meets the casing to find any radiation \"hot-spots\" whilst the unit is operating. As Microwave ovens are not normally designed to be operated without a load this will usually take the form of an open container containing a quantity of water which is used to absorb the energy and as it gets warmed gives an indication that a unit not previously examined by a tester is actually producing microwaves. After checking for leakage the door is required to be opened by whatever means is provided and the measurement device is not to record a level above the given limit. In some scenarios a known quantity of water is heated for a known period of time and the temperature rise over the period of operation is used to generate an indication of the effective power output of the magnetron. This can be helpful to determine whether the oven is operating at the expected power levels indicated by labelling.\n\nElectrical appliance classes are differentiated by a series of IEC protection classes. The protocols for PAT Testing vary by appliance class. \n\nThe earth lead is connected to metal parts on both Class I and Class II appliances. For \"Class I\" during the earth test to prove continuity between earth pin and metal parts on the appliance. For \"Class II\" during the insulation test to prove the insulation between active-neutral and the metal parts of the appliance. i.e. there is no leakage from mains coming into the appliance to the metal parts that are exposed.\n\nIn the UK, there is no requirement to have a formal qualification for persons carrying out PAT Testing. The Electricity at Work regulations of 1989 simply state that where required, inspecting and testing must be carried out by a competent person, however does not mention a benchmark for competency. It has become accepted practice, however, for individuals operating as PAT Testers to hold a 2377–22 City and Guilds qualification. PAT Testers in the UK do not need to be electricians or have a background in the electrical industry. An example of a nationally recognised qualification of competence in PAT is offered by City & Guilds: 'Code of Practice for In-service Inspection and Testing of Electrical Equipment – 4th Edition (No. 2377)'. although there are others provided by EAL available.\n\nIn Australia it is a legal requirement to have attended a course or gained a qualification in order to PAT. Proof of a company’s competence takes the form of a course certificate or qualification. A formal examination process for the topic is operated in collaboration with EAL or city and guilds (the awarding body) under the authority of the QCA (The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority) who validate and authorise the qualification.\n\nAt the basic level PAT test instruments carry out basic safety checks. Most are equipped with an earth continuity test, insulation resistance test and the ability to check the wiring of detachable mains cords. Many do not however include tests which involve applying mains power to the appliance under test, for example, a protective conductor current or touch current tests. The main kind for businesses are simple PASS/FAIL testers that are easy to use, and are aimed at in-house PAT testing with minimal interpretation of results. Advanced PAT testers can give much more information and testing features but are mainly aimed at more highly skilled users.\n\nThese are the simple-to-use and comparatively much cheaper portable appliance testers for most businesses who will test in-house to carry out the testing and suitable for a wide range of businesses. They simply say PASS or FAIL when a test is carried out. Mains powered testers require AC power. Battery operated PAT testers are self-contained and convenient to use. They usually come with rechargeable batteries.\n\nThese testers have a simple \"lights\" system. They have a \"Pass\" light, a \"Fail\" light, options for Class I metal / plastic or Class II. They also will show:\n\nThese testers display more information than just pass or fail, including:\n\nThese readings require interpretation by an electrician or someone with electrical understanding. Advanced PAT testers are effective as facilities management tools because they can record the location and test status of electrical equipment and appliances.\n\nRCD testing\n\nSome units can also test Residual-current devices, following the recommendation in the current IEE Code of Practice to test any RCD fitted on an extension lead or multiway adapter. \nSome advanced PAT testers can download information to a computer. Bluetooth enabled computerised PAT testers make the two way transfer of test data between the tester and PC-based record keeping systems much simpler, and can be used with other test accessories such as label printers. Records can be maintained using PAT software such as PATorganiser\n\nAs PAT testers are sophisticated instruments, it is important to make sure that they are continuing to measure correctly. If a company fails to check and maintain calibration, it could face difficulty substantiating any measurements in the event of a claim. It is usually recommended that calibration is carried out annually on a PAT testing unit.\n\nWhen a PAT tester is calibrated it is re-configuring it to match the original specification. This includes:\n\n\nDual purpose check boxes (which are essentially known resistances either side of the test limits)have also been introduced which are capable of validating the accuracy of both electrical installation testers and portable appliance testers in the field, reducing the risk of a tester being used when not operating correctly - this also allows the re-calibration interval to be increased.\n\n"}
{"id": "53181902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53181902", "title": "Project Raahat", "text": "Project Raahat\n\nProject Raahat is an initiative of Enactus Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies and was started on 29 December 2015 in collaboration with Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, India. Enactus is a global non-profit organisation run by students at individual university and college levels committed to using the power of entrepreneurial action to transform lives and shape a better and more sustainable world. In India, Enactus is active in more than 150 colleges and universities involving more than 4,300 students working on nearly 122 projects across the country. The SSCBS Enactus team comprises 70 students, of which 20 are directly involved in Project Raahat. With DUSIB, Enactus SSCBS has become the first student body in Delhi to be allocated four toilet complexes in Sultanpuri and Kirti Nagar slums for holistic growth and upkeep of the local community.\n\nUnder Project Raahat, the management of Community Toilet Complexes (CTCs) is undertaken by the students, including aspects relating to operational management, aesthetic modification and sensitisation activities. Project Raahat aims to eradicate open defecation and provide safe sanitation facilities to the urban slum dwellers of Delhi. They come up with innovative measures for management of toilet complexes, incorporate aesthetic modification and sensitize people on healthy sanitary practices. The idea sprung from an older project called ‘Sanitary Solutions’ in which they were educating people living in slums about healthy and hygienic practices like the use of sanitary napkins, etc.\n\nThe project has currently been launched at toilet complexes in Sultanpuri and Kirti Nagar.\n\nOpen defecation is the practice of people defecating outside and not into a designated toilet. The term is widely used in literature about water, sanitation, and hygiene issues in developing countries. Open defecation causes public health problems in areas where people defecate in fields, urban parks, rivers, and open trenches in close proximity to the living space of others.\n\nIndia's sanitation and toilet statistics continue to raise a stink. The World Health Organization and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) estimate that there are more than 620 million people practising open defecation in the country; over 50 per cent of the population. Moreover, the latest Census data reveals that the percentage of households having access to television and telephones in rural India exceeds the percentage of households with access to toilet facilities. The economic impact of inadequate sanitation is about Rs. 2.4 trillion ($38.4 million), or 6.4 per cent of India’s gross domestic product, according to the Water and Sanitation Programme.\n\nOver five lakh residents in the national capital continue to defecate in the open. Lack of toilets is not the only reason behind this preference for open defecation. Improper maintenance of the existing ones and restrictive timings have forced residents to head out into the open. At least 234 spots in Delhi are used by the poor as open defecation grounds, a first ever citywide survey on the practice has revealed. Most of these spots are open fields next to slums or spaces along railways tracks.\n\nThe Raahat Model is carried out in phases. \n\nThe team created a cartoon character called Rahi, a superhero, to draw the attention of slum kids towards the importance of using a toilet. In order to engage the families through little ones, a superhero called Raahi, who is an epitome of cleanliness, has also been painted on one of the walls. The character is used in their camps, being impersonated by one other members. Kids see Raahi as a someone who is there to help them lead a healthy life.\n\nA ticket system has been put in by Project Raahat in their complexes which enables the community to reap benefits through reduced expenditure on their use of the CTC. Under conventional pay-per-use system employed in majority of the toilet complexes, the users are charged Re.1 each time they use a toilet complex. Under the Ticket system, they buy a bundle of Rs.10 containing 11 tickets instead. The users turn in one ticket each time they use the complex.\n"}
{"id": "10618400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10618400", "title": "Saint Joseph's Hospital (Atlanta)", "text": "Saint Joseph's Hospital (Atlanta)\n\nSaint Joseph's Hospital of Atlanta is an acute care hospital located in Atlanta, Georgia. It was a sole part of Catholic Health East until a partnership with Emory Healthcare and Catholic Health East became effective January 2012. Saint Joseph's (also known as SJHA) was recognized as one of the 50 finest hospitals in the country by HealthGrades for 2007.\n\nFounded by the Sisters of Mercy in 1880, Saint Joseph’s facility is Atlanta's oldest hospital.\n\nOpened by four Mercy sisters, it was the first hospital in the city after the Civil War. In 1900, Atlanta Hospital began its School of Nursing where it educated and trained more than 1,320 nurses over the next 73 years. Through the years, the Hospital grew and became known as the St. Joseph’s Infirmary. The hospital has had three locations throughout its history: Baker Street, Courtland Street, and currently a site just inside the perimeter of Atlanta. The current campus was dedicated in 1978 when the hospital was renamed Saint Joseph’s Hospital of Atlanta (SJHA).\n\nThe site has expanded greatly since it was opened in 1978 and now accommodates 410 beds serviced by over 750 physicians. The hospital had 16,358 admissions in the most recent available data. It performed 7,251 annual inpatient and 4,939 outpatient surgeries. There were 33,745 visits to its emergency room. Saint Joseph’s Hospital of Atlanta is a non-profit hospital.\n\n“Furthering the healing ministry of the Sisters of Mercy, Saint Joseph's Hospital gives tangible expression to Christ's merciful love by providing compassionate, clinically excellent health care in the spirit of loving service to those in need, with special attention to the poor and vulnerable.”\n\nSaint Joseph’s has received the distinguished Magnet Recognition for Nursing Excellence by American Nurses Association Credentialing Center. The hospital was named best in Georgia and top 5% in the country for cardiac and vascular programs. It also made Solucient’s list of the top 100 hospitals in the nation for cardiac and orthopedic service. Additionally, Saint Joseph’s is the only hospital in Atlanta honored on J.D. Power and Associates Distinguished Hospital Program for Service Excellence. It is also deemed one of the best specialty-referral hospitals in the Southeast.\n\nSaint Joseph’s Hospital provides an extensive community network to the city of Atlanta, providing more than $37 million annually in charitable and uncompensated care for the poor and elderly. Additionally, another $7 million is raised each year to help those least able to cover medical costs. The staff also has a number of organized service-oriented projects including Raise the Roof, a joint effort with Charis to build homes for families in need, and Mercy Day, an effort to collect items to provide hygiene kits to the homeless in accordance with the Sisters of Mercy and their mission.\n\nThe hospital is deeply committed to its original mission and focus on the poor. Saint Joseph’s Mercy Care Services carries out this goal by providing health services, education, and social services to thousands of Atlanta’s needy through two health care clinics, as well as a mobile clinic and five vans.\n\nRecently a variety of movies have been filming in Saint Joseph’s. These include the Three Stooges update, \"Ring of Fire\", \"Flight\", , \"Dumb and Dumber To\", as well as the USA network television show \"Necessary Roughness\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47448127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47448127", "title": "Sandro Porceddu", "text": "Sandro Porceddu\n\nSandro Porceddu is a head and neck radiation oncologist at Brisbane's Princess Alexandra Hospital and a Professor with the University of Queensland. He was president of the Clinical Oncologic Society of Australia (COSA) and chair of the Trials Scientific Committee of the Trans Tasman Radiation Oncology Group (TROG).\n\nPorceddu was awarded a doctorate of medicine for his research into improving the integration of radiotherapy in the management of head and neck cancer and received the American Head and Neck Society/ANZ Head and Neck Cancer Society Christopher O’Brien Traveling Scholarship. He is chair of a phase 3 clinical trial group to assess radiation therapy alone versus in combination with carboplatin chemotherapy for the post-operative treatment of head and neck cancers.\n\n1. \n\n2. \n\n3. \n\n4. \n\n5. \n\n6. \n\n7. \n\n8. \n\n9. \n\n10. \n\n11. \n"}
{"id": "4774166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4774166", "title": "Sean Barrett (writer)", "text": "Sean Barrett (writer)\n\nSean Barrett (born 1959) is a writer, nucleonicist, former member of the , and the grandson of Linton Lomas Barrett. He is the author of \"GURPS Lensman: Starkly Astounding Space-Opera Adventure,\" a book of role-playing instructions carefully based upon the \"Lensman\" series by E.E. Smith, and authorized by Dr. Smith's literary executor, Verna Smith Trestrail. He was a nucleonicist on the USS Ohio (SSBN-726), and senior health physicist on the Three Mile Island Unit Two Recovery Team.\n\n"}
{"id": "52648208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52648208", "title": "Self-supply of water and sanitation", "text": "Self-supply of water and sanitation\n\nSelf-supply of water and sanitation (also called household-led water supply or individual supply) refers to an approach of incremental improvements to water and sanitation services, which are mainly financed by the user. People around the world have been using this approach over centuries to incrementally upgrade their water and sanitation services. The approach does not refer to a specific technology or type of water source or sanitation service although it does have to be feasible to use and construct at a low cost and mostly using tools locally available. The approach is rather about an incremental improvement of these services. It is a market-based approach and commonly does not involve product subsidies.\n\n\"Self-supply\" is different from \"supported self-supply.\" The first term refers to situations where people improving their water and sanitation services on their own. \"Supported self-supply\" refers to a deliberately guided process, usually by a government agency or a non-governmental organization. Many examples of self-supply taking off in a short time come from situations where government-led service provision broke down (e.g., in countries of the former Soviet Union). The approach can also be deliberately used by government agencies or external support agencies to complement other types of service provision, such as community-managed water supply.\n\nSelf-supply is an important strategy - in combination with other approaches such as community-managed services - to achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, particularly for Goal number 6: \"Ensure access to water and sanitation for all\".\n\nThe term is commonly used in the water sector in the development cooporation context, but less commonly in the sanitation sector. Certain approaches such as community-led total sanitation or container-based sanitation systems have many similar aspects to self-supply. Some organizations use other terms referring to approaches which are led by individual households. For example, the World Health Organization uses the term \"individual supply\". In the context of developed countries, a related concept is called living \"off the grid\".\n\nThe short definition of self-supply is: \"People improving water and sanitation services by themselves\". The basic idea of self-supply is that people are providing water for themselves through their own means without direct government support. Humans have been improving their own access to water and sanitation without government aid for millennia. As an approach to improving access it is a user-centered approach that involves incrementally improving current service levels, most of the time mainly financed by the end users. Generally this means that the improvements to water supply and sanitation are achieved either through labor by the end-users or by the end-users paying a technician or a company to complete the work. The incentives and benefits for the end users to improve their own water and sanitation services privately may include: convenience, proximity to home, larger volume of water, faster services than municipal water systems, cheaper than municipal water systems, lack of municipal water systems, privacy, security, and reliability.\n\nThere is no specific technology that is advocated with self-supply. Self-supply is rather an approach of how to improve access to water and sanitation services, commonly referred to as \"moving up the water and sanitation ladders\". At the bottom of the \"water ladder\" are unprotected sources of water. The users \"climb the water ladder\" by adding protection to their water source or additional technology for convenience. For example, a user with an unlined hand dug well with a rope and bucket as a lifting device would be at the bottom of the water ladder. A user with a lined hand dug well would be higher on the water ladder since the water source has a lower risk of contamination due to the lining. A user with a hand pump would have the benefit of being able to get a larger volume of water more quickly than with a bucket, and contamination of the source is reduced. Finally, a user with a motorized pump would have the convenience of not having to expend any manual energy on pumping water. It should be noted that even sources on the lowest rungs of the ladder would provide service all day, every day, all year round.\n\nIn applying self-supply in sanitation, one approach used is that of sanitation marketing. Modularization is a part of the sanitation marketing approach. The sanitation product to be marketed is designed so that upgrades can be made gradually over time, towards an improved sanitation facility, as budget allows.\n\nIn 2015, 663 million people worldwide lacked access to improved water sources and 158 million people used surface water as their main source of drinking water (i.e. an \"unimproved\" water source). 8 out of 10 people without improved drinking water sources live in rural areas. Likewise, 1 in 8 people worldwide practise open defecation (946 million people). These numbers show that there is a continued need to keep improving these services for millions of people.\n\nSelf-supply is not formally part of the water strategy to increase access to improved water sources in most developing countries and is not commonly counted in inventories of access to improved water sources. This is partly related to the fact that self-supply does not refer to a specific technology or service level. However, even in countries where significant initiatives of self-supply have been observed, these usually are not taken into consideration in official numbers of service coverage. Ethiopia and Zimbabwe are exceptions to this rule.\n\nStudies in Zambia and Zimbabwe showed that by using a strategy combining community-managed water supply and self-supply, the life-cycle costs to the government would be 50% lower, compared to a strategy only using community-managed water supply.\n\nA wide range of manual well drilling technology exist in developing countries. Manually driven tube wells are ubiquitous on the coasts of Madagascar. EMAS in Bolivia uses a hybrid percussion-jetting-rotation manual drilling method for the installation of tube wells. Hand-agar drilling is common in Niger where it has been used for the past 30 years. The Manual Drilling Compendium gives a good overview of the status of these technologies worldwide.\n\nIn the United States, 44 million people used self-supply and private water sources in 2010 and about 22% of the rural population uses private wells to access groundwater for their water supply.\n\nAbout 20-60% of the population in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union relies on self-supply for water. For example, 35% of the population in Ukraine, 57% in Moldova, 38% in Romania, and 22% in Albania rely on self-supply for a water source.\n\nBangladesh is one of the cases where self-supply has reached mainstream, with millions of tubewells and hand pumps in use.\n\nThe \"Upgraded Family Well\" program has been implemented by the government of Zimbabwe in rural areas to improve the quality of self-supply wells.\n\nA rope pump for self-supply was developed and introduced in Nicaragua in 1990. Since then, thousands of rope pumps have been installed on family wells. For example, as of 2004, about 30,000 rope pumps were installed serving at least 25 percent of rural population.\n\nPitcher pumps on driven wells are ubiquitous along the coasts of Madagascar. The sandy soils and shallow water tables make it a particularly appropriate technology to use for accessing water. Madagascar’s main port of Tamatave in particular is estimated to have at a minimum of 9,000 pitcher pump wells servicing 170,000 people, making it one of the largest example of an unsubsidized pump market in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nRainwater harvesting is one of the simplest and oldest methods of self-supply. This can be as simple as putting a bucket at the edge of a tin roof. It can also involve the construction of small reservoirs and gutters along the edge of a roof to collect a larger quantity of water.\n\nRain water harvesting has been extensively promoted in Thailand and is an example of how self-supply initiatives can reach large scale (even though in a first phase, the initiative was more of a direct implementation by the Thai government), in this case several million rural households.\n\nHousehold water treatment a means to improve quality of water before consumption. It can be implemented under a self-supply approach, but also under other approaches. The most ubiquitous method of household water treatment in the world is boiling. Other methods that have been advocated are point-of-use chlorination, SODIS, and various types of water filters.\n\nEMAS (Mobile Water & Sanitation School - Spanish acronym, Escuela Móvil de Agua y Saneamiento) has been promoting different technologies to improve water supply and sanitation in Bolivia since the 1980s. Technologies promoted by EMAS in Bolivia are hand-pumps for household water supply, rainwater harvesting, safe household water storage tanks made of ferrocement, pit latrines, and a hybrid percussion-jetting-rotation manual drilling method. In 2013 an independent assessment was conducted that examined all of the technologies promoted by EMAS in Bolivia. The study found that a majority of the households surveyed (53 of 86) purchased EMAS technology with no subsidies or loans. Also, a majority of the households surveyed had operational EMAS pumps (78 out of 79) with all of the pumps being installed 11 years or more previously (18 out of 79) still being operational\n\nIn the field of sanitation, the term \"self supply\" is not commonly used. However, a similar concept is that of community-led total sanitation. This is a behavior change approach which results in people abandoning open defecation and typically building and using pit latrines instead.\n\nAnother approach which could be used for self supply in sanitation is that of container-based sanitation even though the collection and treatment steps are usually carried out by an external service provider, not by the households themselves.\n\nBecause of limited capacities of governments in many countries for private supplies to be regularly tested, often combined with unclear responsibilities for water quality of private supplies, the health risks of these supplies tend to be higher than of larger networks. As a consequence, households who provide their own water supply and sanitation might end up with polluted drinking water. One example is the problem with arsenic polluted groundwater in Bangladesh.\n\nIn contrary to a direct intervention approach, where either a government agency or a private actor (usually a non-profit organization) directly provides a defined target group with a specific service level, self-supply relies on establishing mechanisms to let people decide themselves on the level, the location and the timing of the service provided. This needs special attention to market development, to strengthening the capacities of the private sector (as a service provider) and government agencies (e.g., as quality monitoring agency). Thus, while not interacting directly with any households, self-supply does not imply that the poorest households and individuals are abandoned, but it optimizes the limited resources available at all levels. In cases where the government can not fulfil this role of a regulator and monitoring agencies, dynamic processes have led to overexploitation of groundwater resources (e.g., in the city of Lagos) and of increased public health problems due to the consumption of groundwater that is naturally contaminated with arsenic.\n\nHowever, there are also examples where self-supply contributed to better access to water and sanitation services even by the poorest. For example, Thailand, where millions of rural people upgraded their water service level by buying additional vessels for storing rainwater, is one of the countries with most equal rates of access to drinking water. Additionally, in many cases the owners of a private well or other water source are not the only people who benefit from it. Neighbors, who may be poorer than the owners, also benefit from the water source since frequently they are allowed to use it as well.\n\nAdvocating for self-supply improvements means supporting the target population in a different way than many WASH programs do. Instead of focusing on government providing specific services directly it implies strengthening capacities of the private sector and aims to improve their quality of service. Apart from capacity building, the role of government may also include quality assurance, monitoring, and regulation.\n\nThe criticism is based on the assumption that the Human Right to Water and Sanitation imply that the government directly has to deliver water and sanitation services to everyone. However, as the United Nation's Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights to Water and Sanitation pointed out, the government can also opt for a strategy of strengthening capacities of the private sector under a supported self-supply approach, allowing its resources to be used efficiently and reaching people in sparsely populated rural areas.\n\nThe term \"self-supply\" was coined by members of the Rural Water Supply Network (RWSN) during the RWSN Forum in Uganda in 2004. It subsequently became one of the key topics of this network, which continues to update information regarding self-supply under their thematic website. Around 2010 it became apparent that there is a need to distinguish between \"self-supply\" and \"Accelerated self-supply\", which often also is mentioned as \"Supported self-supply\".\n\nWhereas in many non-industrialized countries self-supply is a naturally occurring process largely without government supervision, there are also exceptions to this rule. For example, self-supply has been formally endorsed by the national government of Ethiopia as a service delivery model for water in rural areas. Furthermore, the experience of Thailand (see example on Rainwater Harvesting) shows how a country can start with a government-driven approach and substantial use of subsidies to a self-supply approach once the private sector is strong enough, and that the resources and emphasis of the government agencies then can shift to monitoring water quality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43786720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43786720", "title": "Spring Cooper", "text": "Spring Cooper\n\nSpring Cooper (born Spring Chenoa Cooper, July 6, 1980) is an American academic and author. \n\nCooper finished her PhD in 2006 at Pennsylvania State University, She worked for a year at Penn State in the office for Health Promotion and Wellness. Since then she completed a postdoc at George Washington University, a postdoc at the University of Sydney, and then began working as a Senior Lecturer at the University of Sydney. As of January 2015, Dr. Cooper is an associate professor for the City University of New York, School of Public Health.\n\nCooper has written a children's book that is available for purchase from Amazon, either in paper or Kindle form. The book is \"The Secret. Period.\" and chronicles the story of two sisters as the eldest gets her first period. When the older sister gets her first period, she keeps it secret from her little sister and the little sister feels left out and lonely, but she doesn't know why her sister isn't talking to her. The story offers a brief explanation of menstruation, but is more broadly a book that has menstruation as part of the story, thus giving parents and older siblings a way to break taboos around menstruation and converse about it more openly.\n\nCooper has written several articles for \"The Conversation\", an online forum that is an intersection of academia and the popular press. She has also been interviewed by several radio shows.\n\nHer expertise is in sexual health, specifically adolescent sexual health. She does both quantitative and qualitative research, and specializes in conducting focus groups with adolescents. She has worked extensively in social research about HPV vaccination in Australia, including a large educational research project for adolescents.\n\nCooper grew up in a military family, moving all over the US as a child. She has one younger sister. Spring blogs about her life as a yoga student and yoga teacher. She was married and has also published under the last name \"Cooper Robbins.\"\n"}
{"id": "14314466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14314466", "title": "St. Mary's Hospital (Richmond)", "text": "St. Mary's Hospital (Richmond)\n\nSt. Mary's Hospital is a private, non-for-profit hospital in the west end of Richmond, Virginia. It is a 391-bed hospital and serves the Central Virginia community and beyond. St. Mary's is affiliated with the Bon Secours Richmond Health System and the Sisters of Bon Secours.\n\nUnder the guidance of the Sisters of Bon Secours, St. Mary's opened its doors in 1966. Over the years, the hospital expanded to help serve the community, growing from an initial size of 169 beds and only 250 employees. Today, St. Mary's has evolved into a state-of-the-art 391-bed facility. The hospital continues to serve the community with the philosophy of good help to those in need, especially the poor and dying.\n\nSt. Mary's has received a variety of awards for its quality of care. Highlights include being the first community hospital in Richmond to achieve Magnet Recognition by the American Nurses Credentialing Center for nursing excellence, in 2008. St. Mary's was named a Top 50 Cardiovascular Hospital in the nation by Thomson Reuters and was recognized by HealthGrades for being ranked among the Top 5% in the nation for emergency medicine, critical care, stroke, gastrointestinal care, and prostatectomy. St. Mary's was also awarded the HealthGrades 2012 Patient Safety Award.\n\nSt. Mary's offers a number of specialized services to the Richmond community. The hospital is accredited by The Joint Commission for having centers of excellence in heart failure, heart attack, and hip and knee joint replacement, and for its primary stroke center. It's also a center of excellence for surgical weight loss surgery and breast imaging. Additionally, St. Mary's has been designated as a Comprehensive Cancer Center by the American College of Surgeons.\n\nSt. Mary's is well known in Richmond for its birthing center, with \"Style Magazine\" readers voting it the \"Best Place in Richmond to Have a Baby.\" In addition, the hospital has introduced a Pediatric Emergency Department to better serve the community. In 2014, the Evelyn D. Reinhart Guest House was opened to help serve patients and caregivers who live far from the hospital. The Guest House was built largely thanks to donations and is located within walking distance of St. Mary's. Patients and caregivers who live far away from the hospital are referred and stay in this \"home away from home\" to help begin the healing process.\n\n"}
{"id": "50340318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50340318", "title": "Stealth ownership", "text": "Stealth ownership\n\nStealth ownership occurs when a larger corporation purchases a smaller enterprise but maintains the packaging and advertising strategies of that smaller company. It is common for the purchaser not to disclose that it owns the smaller company in hopes of maintaining the acquired company's image. This phenomenon is very common within the organic movement and is considered part of the Big Organic movement that began in the late 1990s.\n"}
{"id": "45243395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45243395", "title": "TN-IAMWARM", "text": "TN-IAMWARM\n\nTamil Nadu Irrigated Agriculture Modernization and Water-Bodies Restoration and Management (TN-IAMWARM) is a multidisciplinary project funded by the World Bank and implemented by the Water Resources Organization (WRO), PWD and Government of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu as the Nodal Agencies. Tamil Nadu Agriculture University (TNAU) concentrates on the upscaling of water saving technologies in rice and major garden land crops. The total out lay for TNAU is Rs.88.90 crores.\n\nThe focal technologies are systems of rice intensification (Rajarajan 1000), improved production technologies (IPT) on garden pulses, cotton, maize, sunflower, groundnut and gingelly. Promotion of new crops such as thornless bamboo and cocoa intercropping in coconut is also programmed. Precision farming with drip fertigation is also demonstrated with sugarcane, banana, vegetables, tapioca, coconut and flowers. The concept of an organic farming seed village is promoted in the sub basins.\n\nE-velanmai technology will be tested on a pilot basis. Labour saving implements such as a tractor drawn seed drill, maize husker cum sheller and sunflower thresher will be introduced. A mini dhal mill is introduced. Implements such as a coconut shredder will be introduced under waste recycling. Vermi bag – a cost effective portable unit will be demonstrated.\n\nThe project covers 6.17 Lakh Hectares of Ayacut areas in four phases. 55 sub basins were covered in year 2013 with an outlay of Rs.2547 crores.\n\nThe Coordinating line departments of TN-IAMWARM are as follows\n\n"}
{"id": "56805486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56805486", "title": "Vulvar tumors", "text": "Vulvar tumors\n\nVulvar tumors are those neoplasms of the vulva. Vulvar and vaginal neoplasms make up a small percentage (3%) of female genital cancers. They can be benign or malignant (vulvar cancer). Vulvar neoplasms are divided into cystic or solid lesions and other mixed types. Vulvar cancers are those malignant neoplasms that originate from vulvar epithelium, while vulvar sarcomas develop from non-epithelial cells such as bone, cartilage, fat, muscle, blood vessels, or other connective or supportive tissue. Epithelial and mesenchymal tissue are the origin of vulvar tumors.\n\nMalignant vulvar neoplasms makes up 6% of all reproductive organ cancer and 0.7% of the total cancers in women in the United States. One out of every 333 women will develop vulvar cancer. In the United States, vulvar cancer accounts for nearly 6% of cancers of the female reproductive organs and 0.7% of all cancers in women. In 2018, there will be 6,190 women diagnosed with cancer of the vulva with 1,200 women dying from it. Malignant vulvar tumors can develop in the inner edges of the labia majora, labia minora, clitoris or in the Bartholin glands. Research in preventing vulvar cancers includes investigations into the use of oncogenes, tumor suppressor genes, drug treatments, surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and lymph node mapping.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10293274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10293274", "title": "Women's Interagency HIV Study", "text": "Women's Interagency HIV Study\n\nThe Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS) was established in August 1993 to investigate the impact and progression of HIV disease in women. The WIHS enrolls both HIV-positive and HIV-negative women. The core portion of the study includes a detailed and structured interview, physical and gynecologic examination, and laboratory testing. The WIHS participants are also asked to enroll in various sub-studies, such as cardiovascular, metabolic, musculoskeletal, and neurocognition. New proposals for WIHS sub-studies are submitted for approval by various scientific investigators from around the world.\n\nThe WIHS is funded primarily by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), with additional co-funding from the \"Eunice Kennedy Shriver\" National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD), the National Cancer Institute (NCI), the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), and the National Institute on Mental Health (NIMH). Targeted supplemental funding for specific projects is also provided by the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR), the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), the National Institute on Deafness and other Communication Disorders (NIDCD), and the NIH Office of Research on Women’s Health (ORWH). WIHS data collection is also supported by UL1-TR000004 (UCSF CTSA) and UL1-TR000454 (Atlanta CTSA).\n\nWIHS clinical sites are located in and around 10 cities in the United States and are headed by Principal Investigators: Bronx, NY (Kathryn Anastos); Brooklyn, NY (Howard Minkoff, Deborah Gustafson); Washington, DC (Seble Kassaye); San Francisco, CA (Ruth Greenblatt, Bradley Aouizerat, Phyllis Tien); Chicago, IL (Mardge Cohen); Miami, FL (Margaret Fischl, Lisa Metsch); Chapel Hill, NC (Ada Adimora); Atlanta, GA (Igho Ofotokun, Gina Wingood); Birmingham, AL (Michael Saag, Mirjam-Colette Kempf); and Jackson, MS (Deborah Konkle-Parker). The WIHS Data Management and Analysis Center (Stephen Gange, Elizabeth Golub) is located in Baltimore, MD. Each consortium is affiliated with local research institutes to see study participants and has its own Community Advisory Board.\n\nWIHS has been funded in five cycles to date:\n\nInitial enrollment into the WIHS occurred between October 1994 and November 1995. The total initial enrollment for the WIHS was 2,056 HIV-positive women and 569 HIV-negative women. Since WIHS recruited its initial population, several new trends developed as the HIV epidemic evolved, all of which argued for an expansion of the WIHS cohort. First, despite careful follow-up of the cohort, the inevitable course of illness and time had led to attrition and death. Additionally, increased sample sizes were needed because the effectiveness and consequences of Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) added new strata to many key analyses, and decreased the incidence of clinical outcomes. And finally, as the original cohort continued to age, it became less able to support studies of risk behaviors, sexually transmitted diseases, and reproductive function. Thus, WIHS funding was augmented in 2001 to empower the study to efficiently and precisely meet the study’s specific aims through the recruitment of additional women. Total enrollment in 2001-02 (WIHS visits 15 and 16) was 738 HIV-positive and 403 HIV-negative participants. Beginning in January 2011, the WIHS opened enrollment again, in order to replace those women who had died during WIHS III and WIHS IV. Total enrollment in 2011-12 (WIHS visits 35-37) was 276 HIV-positive and 95 HIV-negative participants. In the summer of 2013, the WIHS will begin enrolling approximately 800 women from the WIHS Southern sites (Atlanta, GA; Chapel Hill, NC; Miami, FL; Birmingham, AL; Jackson, MS). All potential study participants undergo an initial screening to determine study eligibility. If the woman is willing to take part in the study and gives informed consent, she will participate in an in-depth interview, physical exam, and specimen collection.\n\n\n\n"}
