{"id": "12202956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12202956", "title": "A Friend to Die For", "text": "A Friend to Die For\n\nA Friend to Die For (also known as Death of a Cheerleader in the UK and during Lifetime television airings) is a 1994 American psychological thriller television film directed by William A. Graham. Written by Dan Bronson, the film is based on the real-life murder of Kirsten Costas, who was killed by her classmate, Bernadette Protti, in 1984. The film was the highest-rated TV movie of 1994.\n\nIn the fictional town of Santa Mira, California, a man witnesses student Stacey Lockwood (Tori Spelling) (whom he drove home after she went to his house to telephone her parents) being stabbed by an unseen 'friend', who followed them to her house. When her family arrives home, they find paramedics and police gathered outside, as Stacey is rushed to the hospital, where she dies.\n\nIn a flashback to ten months earlier, Angela Delvecchio (Kellie Martin) is a shy high school sophomore who aspires to be popular, beautiful and perfect in everything. She performs well academically in school, attends Mass regularly, and sets high goals for herself. She idolizes Stacey, who is the most popular girl at school, as well as a cheerleader. One of the reasons why Angela admires Stacey is because one of Angela's goals is to become a cheerleader. When Angela is accepted into the Larks, the school's popular clique, she tries to forge a friendship with the rich, snobbish and self-centered Stacey, who rejects her. She then further suffers being rejected for a coveted position as one of the yearbook staff and in an audition for the cheerleading squad, leaving her humiliated and feeling like a failure.\n\nThe events of the night of Stacey's stabbing are shown from Angela's perspective. Still determined to be friends with Stacey, Angela calls Stacey's mother and anonymously invites her to a party under the guise of there being a special dinner for the Larks. Once Stacey gets in the car with Angela, she reveals that the \"dinner\" story was a lie she told Stacey's mother so she would be allowed to meet Angela. Infuriated, Stacey demands to be taken home. Angela tries to explain how much she admires Stacey and wants to be like her, but Stacey is less than sympathetic. Unmoved, she calls Angela \"pathetic\" and exits the car, stating that everyone in school will now laugh at Angela. Stacey then runs to a nearby house, where she asks to use the telephone, explaining that the 'friend' she was with had 'gotten a little weird', and manages to get a ride home. Angela follows the car back to Stacey's home, and out of fear that Stacey will spread rumors about her, Angela stabs Stacey multiple times and leaves her for dead.\n\nAngela avoids capture in the weeks following the incident. Although Angela is interviewed by the police, she is not named as a suspect. Angela, along with all of the Larks, attends Stacey's Funeral Mass. Most of the students blame one of their classmates, Monica Whitley (Kathryn Morris), for Stacey's murder. At first, no one suspects Angela because she is seemingly too nice to commit the crime. Furthermore, Jamie Hall (Marley Shelton), Angela's former best friend and one of Stacey's friends, tells Angela that she never really liked Stacey, and was only afraid of her.\n\nAs her junior year begins, Angela becomes more involved with the community, taking up such activities as peer counseling and candy striping. Overwhelmed by Stacey's murder, one of the Larks brings up the idea of disbanding. Determined not to let this happen, Angela argues that they should remain active, noting that the group was not only important to Stacey, but also to the various community activities in which they take part. This idea not only saves the Larks but also wins Angela the position of secretary/treasurer.\n\nIn the meantime, a harassment campaign is waged against Monica until she finally leaves the school. At this point, authorities resume their investigation and begin re-interviewing possible suspects, including Angela. With the authorities slowly closing in on her, she becomes more and more consumed by her guilt, until she finally confesses to her priest and then to her parents in a letter.\n\nDevastated by the arrest, Jamie, who had gone to St. Joseph's Catholic School with Angela prior to high school, confesses to their priest to having left her in a ski lodge alone during a ski trip the year before, all because she did not have the courage to stand up to Stacey. The high school's principal, Ed Saxe, declared Angela a 'sick kid' and that there is no problem with materialism. As the trial begins, the Prosecutor argues that Angela should be charged with first-degree murder as there was evidence of premeditation. Angela's lawyer claims it was second-degree murder.\n\nThe judge agrees with the defense, after listening to Angela's taped confession. Stating that, other than the tape, the rest of the evidence was just circumstantial and that the prosecution failed to prove the crime to be premeditated. Angela is then sentenced to confinement until the age of 25. Back at the church, the priest gives a homily on the community's responsibility for the death of Stacey, stating that the unrealistic high expectations and pressures to be \"perfect\" contributed to Angela's actions. As the movie ends, Jamie writes a letter to Angela that she quit the Larks (having left when she realized how mean they were to Angela) and that she plans to leave Santa Mira High School and go back to her former school, St. Joseph's.\n\nOn March 25, 2002, the film was released on Region 2 DVD as \"Death of a Cheerleader\".\n\nThe film was based on the murder of Kirsten Costas. On June 23, 1984, in Orinda, California, Costas was murdered by her classmate, Bernadette Protti. Protti had been jealous of Costas, who was the daughter of affluent parents and very popular at Miramonte High School. Kirsten had been a member of the yearbook committee and a cheerleader. However, Bernadette was not accepted by the yearbook committee and tried out for cheerleading, but was not picked. Kirsten, who was chosen to be a cheerleader, saw Bernadette as a wannabe and didn't take her seriously.\n\nOn June 23, 1984, Costas was lured with a phony invitation to a dinner for the Bob-o-Links, a sorority-like group at school. According to Protti's later testimony, she had planned to take Costas to the party to befriend her, but Costas got angry when she was told that there was no dinner for the new \"Bobbies\". The girls quarreled, and Costas fled to the home of Alex and Mary Jane Arnold, living nearby, telling them that her friend had gone \"weird\". When Costas could not reach her parents by telephone, Alex Arnold drove her home, noticing that a Pinto–the Protti's family car–was following them. At the Costas home, Arnold, sitting in his car, saw Protti attack Costas. He thought that he was seeing a fist-fight but, in fact, Protti stabbed Costas five times with a kitchen knife and fled. The Costas' neighbors called an ambulance, but Kirsten was mortally wounded and died at a nearby hospital.\n\nIt took the police almost six months to find Costas' killer. After Protti passed a lie detector test, her alibi went unverified. After attempting to confirm Protti's alibi and rereading her lie detector test, the police knew that the girl had lied. After speaking with an FBI agent, Protti wrote her mother a letter in which she made a full confession.\nProtti claimed to have found the kitchen knife by chance, and her older sister, Gina, testified in court that she used to have that knife in her car to cut vegetables. The Costas did not believe this story – they claimed that nobody would use an 18-inch-long (460 mm) knife to slice tomatoes and that Protti, casually dressed on that evening, never intended to take Kirsten to a party, but had planned to murder her. Protti was sentenced to a maximum of nine years but was released seven years later on parole.\n\nThe Costas family left Orinda and moved to Hawaii. Protti was released from prison in 1992 at the age of 23. Costas' parents vehemently opposed Protti's release.\n\n"}
{"id": "34899581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34899581", "title": "Academic journal publishing reform", "text": "Academic journal publishing reform\n\nAcademic journal publishing reform is the advocacy for changes in the way academic journals are created and distributed in the age of the Internet and the advent of electronic publishing. Since the rise of the Internet, people have organized campaigns to change the relationships among and between academic authors, their traditional distributors and their readership. Most of the discussion has centered on taking advantage of benefits offered by the Internet's capacity for widespread distribution of reading material.\n\nBefore the advent of the Internet it was difficult for scholars to distribute articles giving their research results. Historically publishers performed services including proofreading, typesetting, copy editing, printing, and worldwide distribution. In modern times all researchers became expected to give the publishers digital copies of their work which needed no further processing. For digital distribution printing was unnecessary, copying was free, and worldwide distribution happens online instantly. In science journal publishing, Internet technology enabled the four major scientific publishers—Elsevier, Springer, Wiley, and Informa—to cut their expenditures such that they could consistently generate profits which exceed a third of their revenue.\n\nThe Internet made it easier for researchers to do work which had previously been done by publishers, and some people began to feel that they did not need to pay for the services of publishers. This perception was a problem for publishers, who stated that their services were still necessary at the rates they asked. Critics began to describe publishers' practices with terms such as \"corporate scam\" and \"racket\". Scholars sometimes obtain articles from fellow scholars through unofficial channels, such as posting requests on Twitter using the hashtag \"#icanhazpdf\" (a play on the I Can Has Cheezburger? meme), to avoid paying publishers' access charges.\n\nAlthough it has some historical precedent, open access became desired in response to the advent of electronic publishing as part of a broader desire for academic journal publishing reform. Electronic publishing created new benefits as compared to paper publishing but beyond that, it contributed to causing problems in traditional publishing models.\n\nThe premises behind open access are that there are viable funding models to maintain traditional academic publishing standards of quality while also making the following changes to the field:\n\nOpen access also has ambitions beyond merely granting access to academic publications, as access to research is only a tool for helping people achieve other goals. Open access advances scholarly pursuits in the fields of open data, open government, open educational resources, free and open-source software, and open science, among others.\n\nThe motivations for academic journal publishing reform include the ability of computers to store large amounts of information, the advantages of giving more researchers access to preprints, and the potential for interactivity between researchers.\n\nVarious studies showed that the demand for open access research was such that freely available articles consistently had impact factors which were higher than articles published under restricted access.\n\nSome universities reported that modern \"package deal\" subscriptions were too costly for them to maintain, and that they would prefer to subscribe to journals individually to save money.\n\nThe problems which led to discussion about academic publishing reform have been considered in the context of what provision of open access might provide. Here are some of the problems in academic publishing which open access advocates purport that open access would address:\n\nPublishers state that if profit was not a consideration in the pricing of journals then the cost of accessing those journals would not substantially change. Publishers also state that they add value to publications in many ways, and without academic publishing as an institution these services the readership would miss these services and fewer people would have access to articles.\n\nCritics of open access have suggested that by itself, this is not a solution to scientific publishing’s most serious problem – it simply changes the paths through which ever-increasing sums of money flow. Evidence for this does exist and for example, Yale University ended its financial support of BioMed Central’s Open Access Membership program effective July 27, 2007. In their announcement, they stated,\n\nA similar situation is reported from the University of Maryland, and Phil Davis commented that,\n\nOpponents of the open access model see publishers as a part of the scholarly information chain and view a pay-for-access model as being necessary in ensuring that publishers are adequately compensated for their work. \"In fact, most STM [Scientific, Technical and Medical] publishers are not profit-seeking corporations from outside the scholarly community, but rather learned societies and other non-profit entities, many of which rely on income from journal subscriptions to support their conferences, member services, and scholarly endeavors\". Scholarly journal publishers that support pay-for-access claim that the \"gatekeeper\" role they play, maintaining a scholarly reputation, arranging for peer review, and editing and indexing articles, require economic resources that are not supplied under an open access model. Conventional journal publishers may also lose customers to open access publishers who compete with them. The Partnership for Research Integrity in Science and Medicine (PRISM), a lobbying organization formed by the Association of American Publishers (AAP), is opposed to the open access movement. PRISM and AAP have lobbied against the increasing trend amongst funding organizations to require open publication, describing it as \"government interference\" and a threat to peer review.\n\nFor researchers, publishing an article in a reputable scientific journal is perceived as being beneficial to one's reputation among scientific peers and in advancing one's academic career. There is a concern that the perception of open access journals do not have the same reputation, which will lead to less publishing. Park and Qin discuss the perceptions that academics have with regard to open access journals. One concern that academics have \"are growing concerns about how to promote [Open Access] publishing.\" Park and Qin also state, \"The general perception is that [Open Access] journals are new, and therefore many uncertainties, such as quality and sustainability, exist.\"\n\nJournal article authors are generally not directly financially compensated for their work beyond their institutional salaries and the indirect benefits that an enhanced reputation provides in terms of institutional funding, job offers, and peer collaboration.\n\nThere are those, for example PRISM, who think that open access is unnecessary or even harmful. David Goodman argued that there is no need for those outside major academic institutions to have access to primary publications, at least in some fields.\n\nThe argument that publicly funded research should be made openly available has been countered with the assertion that \"taxes are generally not paid so that taxpayers can access research results, but rather so that society can benefit from the results of that research; in the form of new medical treatments, for example. Publishers claim that 90% of potential readers can access 90% of all available content through national or research libraries, and while this may not be as easy as accessing an article online directly it is certainly possible.\" The argument for tax-payer funded research is only applicable in certain countries as well. For instance in Australia, 80% of research funding comes through taxes, whereas in Japan and Switzerland, only approximately 10% is from the public coffers.\n\nFor various reasons open access journals have been established by predatory publishers who seek to use the model to make money without regard to producing a quality journal. The causes of predatory open access publishing include the low barrier to creating the appearance of a legitimate digital journal and funding models which may include author publishing costs rather than subscription sales.\nResearch reviewer Jeffrey Beall publishes a \"List of Predatory Publishers\" and an accompanying methodology for identifying publishers who have editorial and financial practices which are contrary to the ideal of good research publishing practices.\n\nThe Public Library of Science is a nonprofit open-access scientific publishing project aimed at creating a library of open access journals and other scientific literature under an open content license. The founding of the organization had its origins in a 2001 online petition calling for all scientists to pledge that from September 2001 they would discontinue submission of papers to journals which did not make the full-text of their papers available to all, free and unfettered, either immediately or after a delay of several months. The petition collected 34,000 signatures but the publishers took no strong response to the demands. Shortly thereafter, the Public Library of Science was founded as an alternative to traditional publishing.\n\nHINARI is a 2002 project of the World Health Organization and major publishers to enable developing countries to access collections of biomedical and health literature online at reduced subscription costs.\n\nThe Research Works Act was a bill of the United States Congress which would have prohibited all laws which would require an open access mandate when US-government-funded researchers published their work. The proposers of the law stated that it would \"ensure the continued publication and integrity of peer-reviewed research works by the private sector\". Critics of the law stated that it was the moment that \"academic publishers gave up all pretence of being on the side of scientists.\"\nIn February 2012, Elsevier withdrew its support for the bill. Following this statement, the sponsors of the bill announced they will also withdraw their support.\n\nThe Cost of Knowledge is a campaign begun in 2012 specifically targeting the scientific publishing company Elsevier. It was begun by a group of prominent mathematicians who each made a commitment to not participate in publishing in Elsevier's journals.\n\nAccess2Research is a 2012 United States-based campaign in which open access advocates appealed to the United States government to require that taxpayer-funded research be made available to the public under open licensing.\n\n\"PeerJ\" is an open-access journal launched in 2012 that charges publication fees per researcher, not per article, resulting in what has been called \"a flat fee for 'all you can publish'\".\n\nSince 1998, PKP has been developing free open source software platforms for managing and publishing peer-reviewed open access journals and monographs, with Open Journal Systems used by more than 7,000 active journals in 2013.\n\n2013 Nobel Prize winner Randy Schekman called for a boycott of traditional academic journals including \"Nature\", \"Cell\", and \"Science\". Instead he promoted the open access journal \"eLife\".\n\nInitiative for Open Citations is a CrossRef initiative for improved citation analysis. It was supported by majority of the publishers effective from April 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2210239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2210239", "title": "Access to Knowledge movement", "text": "Access to Knowledge movement\n\nThe Access to Knowledge (A2K) movement is a loose collection of civil society groups, governments, and individuals converging on the idea that access to knowledge should be linked to fundamental principles of justice, freedom, and economic development.\n\nThe Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in the Sciences and Humanities from 2003 is a major declaration reflecting the goals of the movement pertaining to academic publishing.\n\nIn October 2004, the Geneva declaration on the future of the World Intellectual Property Organization emerged from a call from Brazil and Argentina for a development agenda for the World Intellectual Property Organization, and was supported by hundreds organizations.\nSupporters included the Free Software Foundation, with a statement \"Towards a \"World Intellectual Wealth Organisation\": Supporting the Geneva Declaration.\"\n\nOne of the proposals of the declaration was to a «call for a Treaty on Access to Knowledge and Technology. The Standing Committee on Patents and the Standing Committee on Copyright and Related Rights should solicit views from member countries and the public on elements of such a treaty».\n\nA shared discussion platform on A2K issues is the mailing list of that name, which was initiated around discussion of the Geneva declaration.\nA draft \"A2K treaty\" was later produced. The proposed treaty is intended to ease the transfer of knowledge to developing nations, and to secure the viability of open innovation systems all over the world.\n\nAccess to knowledge and science is protected by Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The article balances the right of access with a right to protection of moral and material interests:\nArticle 27\nEveryone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.\n\nEveryone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author.\n\nA2K academics argue that “material interests” are not simply equivalent to current intellectual property provisions, not least because these rights are saleable and transferable, and therefore not “inalienable”. The right to access is ultimately the more important part of the right. Current levels of IP protection seem out of balance with Article 27, according to A2K theorists:\n\n... in a very real sense, rights delayed are rights denied. Had access to oral rehydration therapy and second-generation vaccine technologies been delayed for twenty years ... three million children would have died. Even for less life- and-death technologies, a twenty-year delay works an immense limitation on enjoyment of the right. For cultural works, the situation is even worse; protection lasts longer than a human lifetime.\n\nCP Tech (now Knowledge Ecology International) say: \"the A2K (Access to Knowledge) movement takes concerns with copyright law and other regulations that affect knowledge and places them within an understandable social need and policy platform: access to knowledge goods.\"\n\nMany different groups refer to the A2K movement. Consumers International is particularly prominent, running a dedicated domain, and defines the movement as:\n\nthe umbrella term for a movement that aims to create more equitable public access to the products of human culture and learning. The ultimate objective of the movement is to create a world in which educational and cultural works are accessible to all, and in which consumers and creators alike participate in a vibrant ecosystem of innovation and creativity.\nThese goals are of interest to a broad coalition of consumer groups, NGOs, activists, Internet users and others. For many of them, coming to grips with the issues involved in the A2K movement can be daunting. These issues, including copyright and patent law reform, open content licensing, and communications rights, often involve legal and technological concepts that even specialists find difficult.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50618747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50618747", "title": "Adjunct professor", "text": "Adjunct professor\n\nAdjunct professor (adjunct lecturer and adjunct instructor, or adjunct faculty collectively) is a type of academic appointment in higher education. \n\n"}
{"id": "43018908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43018908", "title": "Adolph Hallis", "text": "Adolph Hallis\n\nAdolph Hallis (4 July 1896 – 1987) was a South African pianist, composer and teacher.\n\nHallis was born in Port Elizabeth and travelled to England in his twenties, where he studied at the Royal Academy of Music; his teachers there included Tobias Matthay and Oscar Beringer. He made his debut at the Wigmore Hall in 1919, and after a wide-ranging European career settled back in South Africa in 1939, where he became a teacher at the University of the Witwatersrand. He died in South Africa in 1987.\n\nDuring his career Hallis premiered numerous works, including piano concertos by Alan Rawsthorne and Erik Chisholm. He gave the first British performance of Dmitri Shostakovich's First Piano Concerto in Birmingham in 1936. Although Arnold Cooke's Piano Concerto (1939/'40) was written for Hallis, the outbreak of WWII prevented him giving its première, which was given instead by Louis Kentner with the BBC Symphony Orchestra under Clarence Raybould in 1943 in a studio broadcast for the BBC's Third Programme. In 1938 he made, for Decca Records, the first complete recording of the piano Préludes of Claude Debussy. With Sophie Wyss, Alan Rawsthorne, Christian Darnton and Benjamin Britten he formed the Hallis Concert Society, which gave a number of innovative concerts in London in the period 1936–1939. These included British premieres of both contemporary and historical British and European music, including works of Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina, François Couperin, Arnold Cooke, Alban Berg, Paul Hindemith, Elisabeth Lutyens and Elizabeth Maconchy.\n\nAmongst Hallis's compositions were film music, (sometimes under the pseudonym of \"Hal Dolphe\"), including music for two films of Alfred Hitchcock, \"Rich and Strange\" (1931) and \"Number Seventeen\" (1932). His other works include a piano concerto and various piano pieces.\n\nHis students included many South African keyboard players of the postwar generations, amongst them Michael Blake, Neville Dove, Marian Friedman, Paul Hepker, Petronel Malan, Anton Nel, Elizabeth de la Porte, Renee Reznek, and Jeanne Zaidel-Rudolph.\n\n"}
{"id": "39649247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39649247", "title": "Amity Gaige", "text": "Amity Gaige\n\nAmity Gaige (born 1972) is an American novelist, known for her books \"O My Darling\", \"The Folded World\" and \"Schroder\". In 2006 the National Book Foundation named her a 5 under 35 honoree.\n\nAmity Gaige was born in Charlotte, North Carolina, United States, to an academic father and a psychologist mother. The Gaige family moved several times before settling in Reading, Pennsylvania. She graduated from Brown University, where she studied English and theater. She later obtained an M.F.A. from the Iowa Writers' Workshop (1999).\n\nHer first novel, \"O My Darling\" (Other Press, 2005) won her a place in the inaugural year of the National Book Foundation’s 5 Under 35 Awards.\n\nHer second novel, \"The Folded World\", was published in 2007 (Other Press, Random House), and garnered independent publishing awards that year.\n\nHer third novel, \"Schroder\" (Twelve Books, 2013) was a shortlist nominee for Britain's inaugural GB₤40,000 Folio Prize in 2014. The novel stirred controversy in its depiction of a reckless young father who flees with his six-year-old daughter on a road trip through New England after a custody battle. The author drew inspiration from the real-life Christian Gerhartsreiter story, though the book is not a novelization of that story. In style and form, \"Schroder\" drew comparison to works by Nabokov. The Los Angeles Times wrote, “\"Schroder’s\" closest literary relative is probably Lolita (minus the pedophilia),” and Kathryn Schulz suggested that Gaige intended \"Schroder\" as an homage and an “appropriation” of \"Lolita\" in New York Magazine, which published a scratched-out image of Nabokov’s cover art. Gaige also cited Pale Fire as an influence in an interview with The New York Times' John Williams.\nThe book was sold pre-publication for translation into fifteen languages, and was endorsed on the Dutch television show De Wereld Draait Door, sending the book into numerous reprintings. In the U.S., the book won endorsements from Jonathan Franzen and Jennifer Egan, and was reviewed in nearly every major print outlet, making it one of the most heavily reviewed books of the year. According to WorldCat, the book is held in 3,873 libraries, with editions in 8 languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "33493138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33493138", "title": "Anita Caspary", "text": "Anita Caspary\n\nDr. Anita Marie Caspary (November 4, 1915, Herrick, South Dakota – October 5, 2011, Los Angeles, California) was the only woman in American history to hold the positions of Mother General of an order of Catholic sisters and the first president of a Christian ecumenical community. Under her leadership over 300 sisters relinquished their canonical status and religious vows and formed the new Immaculate Heart Community of California. This was the largest exodus of Catholic sisters in U.S. history. Acknowledged as a transformative leader in the post Vatican II Catholic Church, she was featured on the cover of TIME Magazine February 23, 1970.\n\nA \"cradle Catholic\" who took her vows in 1936 as Sister Humiliata in the Sisters of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Caspary became increasingly at-odds with the Archbishop of Los Angeles, James Cardinal McIntyre in the wake of the Second Vatican Council. In December 1969, after a standoff, more than 300 sisters at an Immaculate Heart community meeting voted to become a non-canonical community, thereby freeing themselves of Cardinal McIntyre's jurisdiction. Around fifty of these continued to operate with diocesan recognition. Approximately 250 sisters ceased teaching in the archdiocese's Catholic schools. Caspary recalled that establishing a voluntary lay community \"relieved us from threats and difficulties with the church under which we lived at that time\".\n\nCaspary was president of Immaculate Heart College, which was operated by her order, from 1958–63. (The school continued to operate after the schism in 1970, but closed in 1980.) After the break with the Church, she taught at the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley and served on the staff of the Peace and Justice Center of Southern California.\n\nCaspary taught high school English while studying toward a master's degree at the University of Southern California. She received her Ph.D. in 1948 from Stanford University. She wrote a 2003 memoir, \"Witness to Integrity\". In 2012, a collection of her poems, \"FROM THE HEART: Poems by Anita M. Caspary, I.H.M.\", was published posthumously.\n\nAnita Caspary died in Los Angeles, California on October 5, 2011, aged 95.\n\n4. Anita M. Caspary, IHM, PhD. \"The Crisis of the Immaculate Heart Community of California\" (Collegeville: The Liturgical Press, 2003).5. Susan M. Maloney, SNJM, PhD. “The First Feminist Nuns: The Immaculate Heart Community of California” in \"(Re) Interpretations: The Shapes of Justice in Women's Experience\", eds. Lisa Dresdner and Laurel Peterson. (London: Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2008), 151-167.6. Susan M. Maloney, SNJM, PhD. “Changing Catholic Commitments: Anita Caspary and the Immaculate Heart Community of California” in \"Impossible to Hold: Women and Culture in the 1960s\", eds. Lauri Umansky and Avital Block. (New York: New York University Press, 2005),177-195.7. Susan M. Maloney, SNJM, PhD. “Obedience, Responsibility, and Freedom: Anita M. Caspary, IHM,\nand the Post-Conciliar Renewal of Catholic Women Religious” in U.S. Catholic Historian, Fall 2014, Vol. 32, No. 4, 121-150.8. Mark. S. Massa, S.J. \"The American Catholic Revolution: How the Sixties Changed the Church Forever\" (New York: Oxford University Press, 2010), 90.9. http://www.anitacaspary.com/a-woman-of-courage-and-commitment.html. Source referenced October 30, 2017. This recently published website contains much more information on the life and works of Anita M. Caspary.\n"}
{"id": "1033465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1033465", "title": "Association of Norwegian Students Abroad", "text": "Association of Norwegian Students Abroad\n\nThe Association of Norwegian Students Abroad (ANSA, in Norwegian: \"Samskipnaden for norske studenter i utlandet\") is a non-profit and membership based organisation aiming to voice the educational, cultural, political and economic interests of Norwegian students studying outside Norway and to promote overseas students as a valuable resource to domestic employers.\n\nAs of 2009/2010 20.165 Norwegian students were studying abroad. In 2014 ANSA has over 10.000 members at over 1.200 educational institutions in more than 90 countries.\nANSA in particular works to influence rules and regulations governing student grants and loans, arguing that all students should have the right to study any subject in any country as they wish. The Norwegian government has been funding higher education for Norwegian students abroad for more than 60 years, with the Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund (\"Lånekassen\") providing students with loans and grants. ANSA was founded by Norwegian students in 1956 to address difficulties students encountered in dealing with Lånekassen. \n\nThe organisation targets services at students prior to, during, and after studies abroad. A range of membership benefits are central in attracting students as members. ANSA's Information Centre for higher education abroad is funded by the Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research to provide unbiased advice on higher education abroad. The Membership Department deals with enquiries from potential and current members, while ANSA's Student Adviser provides advice to students encountering problems during their studies abroad, such as with regards to their university, their insurance, or Lånekassen.\n\nANSA is manned by 12 full-time employees. The Secretary-General heads the office in Oslo.\n\nThe President of ANSA is elected at the annual general assembly. The President's main responsibility is lobbying for ANSA’s political priorities towards the Norwegian authorities. The President is also chair of ANSA’s Board and main spokesperson of ANSA.\n\nThe board of ANSA consists of six students abroad, two students who previously have studied abroad, ANSA’s president and a representative for the employees at ANSA. The Board is responsible for ANSA’s political priorities and the main goals of the organisation.\n\nAmong ANSA's members are over 500 volunteers who organise various social and cultural events and represent ANSA at their places of study.\n\n"}
{"id": "44939834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44939834", "title": "Austin Choi-Fitzpatrick", "text": "Austin Choi-Fitzpatrick\n\nAustin Choi-Fitzpatrick is assistant professor of political sociology at the Joan B. Kroc School of Peace Studies at the University of San Diego. He was previously assistant professor of political sociology at the School of Public Policy at Central European University. He specializes in the interplay between culture and politics in times of social change. He is also core faculty at the Center for Media, Data and Society.\n\nHis current project, funded by the National Science Foundation, explores the impact social movements have on human rights violators in rural India. Early work along these lines can be found in a volume co-edited with Alison Brysk: \"From Human Trafficking to Human Rights: Reframing Contemporary Slavery\" (University of Pennsylvania Press Series on Human Rights).\n\nIn his most recent book, \"What Slaveholders Think: How Contemporary Perpetrators Rationalize What They Do\", Choi-Fitzpatrick argues that slaveholders have been overlooked by the contemporary abolitionist movement. Taking them seriously, he suggests, advances scholarship on social movements, human rights, and anti-trafficking. Policy implications include the possibility that international development efforts recognize that some of their beneficiaries are also rights violators.\n\nChoi-Fitzpatrick is currently working on a new book that explores the ways social movements use new technologies. In particular he focuses on the ways unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs, or \"drones\") are used by civil society actors as they work to hold both businesses and governments accountable. Early efforts to sketch an overview of public usage of the technology and to advance an ethical framework for its use can be found in an the \"Journal of International Affairs\". He is working on an innovative method for estimating the size of protest events and other mass gatherings. Findings from this project have been presented at Harvard, MIT, University of Pennsylvania, and Central European University. Shorter essays on the topic can be found at \"Slate\" and Al Jazeera.\n\nWith students at the Kroc School he has authored a report on non-violent drone use from 2009-2015.\n\nChoi-Fitzpatrick holds a PhD in sociology from the University of Notre Dame, where he was Assistant Director at the Center for the Study of Social Movements and Social Change. Prior to academia he worked as a human rights advocate. From 2003 through 2009 he was on staff at Free the Slaves, the sister organization of Anti-Slavery International, itself the world's first and longest-running human rights NGO. He studied human rights and international security at the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Denver.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17300653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17300653", "title": "BabyFirst", "text": "BabyFirst\n\nBabyFirst is a TV channel that produces and distributes content for babies through television, the internet, and mobile applications. The channel is owned by First Media. The content is intended to develop an infant's skills, such as color recognition, counting and vocabulary. There are about 90 BabyFirst TV shows and 41 apps for mobile devices. As of 2014, the network is distributed to 81 million homes, and is based in Los Angeles, California.\n\nBabyFirst was founded in 2003 by Guy Oranim and Sharon Rechter. Its first broadcast was through DirecTV in 2006. It was founded by Regency Enterprises, Kardan, and Bellco Capital. Distribution expanded through agreements with the Echostar Dish Network, Comcast, AT&T U-verse and others. It also developed a premium BabyFirst YouTube channel, and mobile apps. One app developed with AT&T U-verse allows babies to interact with the television programming by drawing on a mobile device.\n\nBabyFirst was founded in 2004 by Guy Oranim and Sharon Rechter. The network was launched on May 11, 2006 on DirecTV and was later made available through EchoStar's Dish Network that June. The BabyFirst network is based in Los Angeles and was initially funded by Regency Enterprises (a Hollywood movie studio), Kardan (a holding company) and Bellco Capital (a private fund). BabyFirst was controversial when it was introduced, because it was the first 24-hour channel for children six months to three years in age. However, the channel was popular among parents and grew quickly.\n\nIn 2011, BabyFirst obtained agreements to distribute the channel in the United Kingdom through the BSkyB satellite network as well as in Mexico through Sky Mexico and Cablevision. A French version was introduced with CanalSat in 2011. By the end of 2011, it had arranged broadcasting agreements throughout Europe, the Middle East and Canada among others.\n\nBabyFirst also started broadcasting in ten territories in the Asia Pacific, such as China and Korea. In October 2008, SingTel started distributing the channel to the Singapore audience. It was also being broadcast in Africa and Latin America. In May 2008, it signed a distribution agreement with Time Warner Cable. In 2009, HBO Asia became the exclusive distributor for the channel in Asia. A bilingual Latin/English channel, BabyFirst Americas, was launched with Comcast in 2012. A premium BabyFirst YouTube channel was introduced in June 2013.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the Federal Trade Commission responded to a complaint by the Campaign for a Commercial Free Childhood alleging that BabyFirst's advertising that it helped babies develop skills was misleading. The FTC did not impose any sanctions. As of 2014, it has 81 million viewers and is broadcast in over 100 territories, in thirteen languages.\n\nIn 2013, former ABC Network President Steven McPherson and Rich Frank, the former chairman of Disney Channel became investors and board members as the company worked to develop new content and improve advertising revenues. In May 2014, BabyFirst and AT&T U-verse released a co-developed second-screen app for mobile devices that allows children to interact with the television programming through tablets or smartphones.\n\nBabyFirst's television channel provides 24-hour programming for babies. About 90 percent of the 90 shows BabyFirst produces are original content created at BabyFirst's studios. Acquired programs include Shape A Majigs, Mio Mao, Musti, Ready Dress Go, Squeak!, Tec the Tractor, Suzy's Zoo, Color Crew, Rainbow Horse, and Wonder Box. The format of the network limits each of the network's presentations to three to five minutes of length that are either live-action or animated.\n\n\"The New York Times\" described the content as \"decidedly unhurried\" and said it makes extensive use of bright colors and upbeat music. Programming development is guided by child psychology experts and is designed to encourage a child's skills development, such as counting, vocabulary and color recognition. The BabyFirst logo in the corner changes colors to indicate the skills a segment is intended to develop. Late-night programming is intended to lull viewers to sleep.\n\nThere are also 41 BabyFirst apps for mobile devices. An app available to AT&T U-verse viewers allows children to draw on a mobile device and have the drawing appear on the television screen.\n\nSome experts argue that exposing children to television at such an early age is taking technology too far or that parents are using BabyFirst as a digital babysitter. Parents in-turn refute that argument, claiming that experts have lost touch with the realities of raising a child. BabyFirst suggests the programming is intended to be watched by parents and their children together in an interactive way. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends against exposing children under the age of two to television, while a 2003 study by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that most children under two years of age are already watching TV. According to \"The Washington Post\", very little is known about whether young children watching television has a negative or positive effect on them.\n\n"}
{"id": "47052110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47052110", "title": "Blocksworld", "text": "Blocksworld\n\nBlocksworld is a physics-based 3D sandbox video game developed by Linden Lab for the iPad, the iPhone in July 26, 2013, and released later on Steam in September 25, 2017.\n\nIn \"Blocksworld\", players can create their own games and experiences from 3D building blocks that can be combined to construct simple or complex creations in unique 3D environments. Players can also use “action blocks” and a drag-and-drop visual programming tool to add interactivity and gaming to their creations. Examples include drivable cars, flyable jets, and playable games with win/lose conditions, health systems, and other attributes. Due to the creative and building aspects of Blocksworld, some game critics have compared the game to \"Minecraft\", \"Roblox\", Lego, and Animal Jam.\n\nIn this free-to-download app, players can share and play their creations with other \"Blocksworld\" players around the world. Coin rewards serve as in-game currency that can be earned as player creations are liked by the community or featured within the game. These coins can also be purchased and used to buy a variety of themed building “sets” including original offerings, like Heroes of Aero, City Blocks, and Star Rangers, plus licensed sets including \"My Little Pony\", \"Legends of Oz: Dorothy's Return\", G.I. Joe and \"Transformers\" sets.\n\nOther game features include weekly build challenges and a “record and share” feature that enables players to instantly upload videos of their creations or gameplay to YouTube.*\n\nCertain blocks have a bronze, silver, or gold ring around them that symbolizes how special they are. The blocks are sorted into categories known as blocks, models, props, textures, colors, blocksters, gear, action blocks, actions, and sounds. Blocksters are \"Blocksworld\" people, that are in different kinds. Models are made by blocksworld but can also be made by the player. Action blocks are blocks with their own actions, although other blocks may have unique actions as well. Actions are placed in a panel with infinite space to store all actions needed although colors, textures, and any sound effect can be placed in the panel as well.\n\nLots of players create games and models to share.\n\nSome players achieve a particularly high level of popularity within the games community, such as Okayzee, a skilled pixel artist, with a strong fan base consisting of over 10,000 followers, and Illumablocki, a game creator with over 7,000 followers.\n\n\"Blocksworld\" was initially developed by Swedish independent video game developer Boldai, which was acquired by U.S.-based Linden Lab in early 2013. An earlier version of the game was briefly available in 2012 in Sweden, Iceland, Finland, Denmark and Norway. However, for the subsequent global release, the game was repositioned as a freemium offering where players have the option to purchase premium sets and games, additional building objects and pieces, coins, and other upgrades and extras for a small fee.\n\nVirtual coins serve as the in-game currency, which can be either purchased via the in-app shop or rewarded through various community actions such as having creations rated via stars.\n\nPlayers used have the option to pay 7.99 (US) or (CAD) dollars for Blocksworld Premium, which gives an infinite amount of designated blocks. Now, Blocksworld Premium is a subscription which has to be paid monthly/yearly and gives more benefits than the original Blocksworld Premium.\n\nIn September 2017, Blocksworld was released on Steam, prior to that, you could only play it on your browser or on your mobile device.\n\nSince its initial U.S. release, Blocksworld has reached number one on iTunes in the Education category for the iPad (U.S.) and number three in the overall Games category for the iPad (U.S.). In addition, the game has found high visibility on YouTube with over 45,000 user-created gameplay videos.\n\nThe game also has its own wiki which you can access in the app by pressing the help button.\n"}
{"id": "18591996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18591996", "title": "Boycott", "text": "Boycott\n\nA boycott is an act of voluntary and intentional abstention from using, buying, or dealing with a person, organization, or country as an expression of protest, usually for moral, social, political, or environmental reasons. The purpose of a boycott is to inflict some economic loss on the target, or to indicate a moral outrage, to try to compel the target to alter an objectionable behavior.\n\nSometimes, a boycott can be a form of consumer activism, sometimes called moral purchasing. When a similar practice is legislated by a national government, it is known as a sanction.\n\nThe word \"boycott\" entered the English language during the Irish \"Land War\" and derives from Captain Charles Boycott, the land agent of an absentee landlord, Lord Erne, who lived in Lough Mask House, near Ballinrobe in County Mayo, Ireland, who was subject to social ostracism organized by the Irish Land League in 1880. As harvests had been poor that year, Lord Erne offered his tenants a ten percent reduction in their rents. In September of that year, protesting tenants demanded a twenty five percent reduction, which Lord Erne refused. Boycott then attempted to evict eleven tenants from the land. Charles Stewart Parnell, in a speech in Ennis prior to the events in Lough Mask, proposed that when dealing with tenants who take farms where another tenant was evicted, rather than resorting to violence, everyone in the locality should shun them. While Parnell's speech did not refer to land agents or landlords, the tactic was first applied to Boycott when the alarm was raised about the evictions. Despite the short-term economic hardship to those undertaking this action, Boycott soon found himself isolated – his workers stopped work in the fields and stables, as well as in his house. Local businessmen stopped trading with him, and the local postman refused to deliver mail.\n\nThe concerted action taken against him meant that Boycott was unable to hire anyone to harvest the crops in his charge. Eventually 50 Orangemen from Cavan and Monaghan volunteered to do the work. They were escorted to and from Claremorris by one thousand policemen and soldiers, despite the fact that the local Land League leaders had said that there would be no violence from them, and in fact no violence happened. This protection ended up costing far more than the harvest was worth. After the harvest, the \"boycott\" was successfully continued. Within weeks Boycott's name was everywhere. The \"New-York Tribune\" reporter, James Redpath, first wrote of the boycott in the international press. The Irish author, George Moore, reported: 'Like a comet the verb 'boycott' appeared.' It was used by \"The Times\" in November 1880 as a term for organized isolation. According to an account in the book \"The Fall of Feudalism in Ireland\" by Michael Davitt, the term was promoted by Fr. John O'Malley of County Mayo to \"signify ostracism applied to a landlord or agent like Boycott\". \"The Times\" first reported on November 20, 1880: \"The people of New Pallas have resolved to 'boycott' them and refused to supply them with food or drink.\" The \"Daily News\" wrote on December 13, 1880: \"Already the stoutest-hearted are yielding on every side to the dread of being 'Boycotted'.\" By January of the following year, the word was being used figuratively: \"Dame Nature arose... She 'Boycotted' London from Kew to Mile End\" (The Spectator, January 22, 1881).\n\nGirlcott is a portmanteau of girl and boycott intended to focus on the rights or actions of women. The term was coined in 1968 by American track star Lacey O'Neal during the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, in the context of protests by male African American athletes. Speaking for black women athletes, she advised that the group would not \"girlcott\" the Olympic Games, because female athletes were still focused on being recognized. It also appeared in \"Time\" magazine in 1970, and was later used by retired tennis player Billie Jean King in reference to Wimbledon, to emphasize her argument regarding equal pay for women players. The term \"girlcott\" was revived in 2005 by women in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania protesting what they said were sexist and degrading T-shirt slogans on Abercrombie & Fitch merchandise.\n\nAlthough the term itself was not coined until 1880, the practice dates back to at least the 1790s, when supporters of the abolition of the slave trade in Britain advocated boycotting slave-produced sugar. Other instances include:\n\nDuring the 1973 oil crisis, the Arab countries enacted a crude oil embargo against the West. Other examples include the US-led boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, the Soviet-led boycott of the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, and the movement that advocated \"disinvestment\" in South Africa during the 1980s in opposition to that country's apartheid regime. The first Olympic boycott was in the 1956 Summer Olympics with several countries boycotting the games for different reasons. Iran also has an informal Olympic boycott against participating against Israel, and Iranian athletes typically bow out or claim injuries when pitted against Israelis (see Arash Miresmaeili).\n\nA boycott is typically a one-time affair intended to correct an outstanding single wrong. When extended for a long period of time, or as part of an overall program of awareness-raising or reforms to laws or regimes, a boycott is part of moral purchasing, and some prefer those economic or political terms.\n\nMost organized consumer boycotts today are focused on long-term change of buying habits, and so fit into part of a larger political program, with many techniques that require a longer structural commitment, e.g. reform to commodity markets, or government commitment to moral purchasing, e.g. the longstanding boycott of South African businesses to protest apartheid already alluded to. These stretch the meaning of a \"boycott.\"\n\nBoycotts are now much easier to successfully initiate due to the Internet. Examples include the gay and lesbian boycott of advertisers of the \"Dr. Laura\" talk show, gun owners' similar boycott of advertisers of Rosie O'Donnell's talk show and (later) magazine, and gun owners' boycott of Smith & Wesson following that company's March 2000 settlement with the Clinton administration. They may be initiated very easily using either Web sites (the Dr. Laura boycott), newsgroups (the Rosie O'Donnell boycotts), or even mailing lists. Internet-initiated boycotts \"snowball\" very quickly compared to other forms of organization.\n\n\"Viral Labeling\" is a new boycott method using the new digital technology proposed by the Multitude Project and applied for the first time against Walt Disney around Christmas time in 2009.\n\nAnother form of consumer boycotting is substitution for an equivalent product; for example, Mecca Cola and Qibla Cola have been marketed as substitutes for Coca-Cola among Muslim populations.\n\nAcademic boycotts have been organized against countries. For example, the mid and late 20th century academic boycotts of South Africa in protest of apartheid practices and the more recent academic boycotts of Israel.\n\nSome boycotts center on particular businesses, such as recent protests regarding Costco, Walmart, Ford Motor Company, or the diverse products of Philip Morris. Another form of boycott identifies a number of different companies involved in a particular issue, such as the Sudan Divestment campaign, the Boycott Bush campaign. The Boycott Bush website was set up by Ethical Consumer after U.S. President George W. Bush failed to ratify the Kyoto Protocol – the website identifies Bush's corporate funders and the brands and products they produce. A prime target of boycotts is consumerism itself, e.g. \"International Buy Nothing Day\" celebrated globally on the Friday after Thanksgiving Day in the United States.\n\nAnother version of the boycott is targeted divestment, or disinvestment. Targeted divestment involves campaigning for withdrawal of investment, for example the Sudan Divestment campaign involves putting pressure on companies, often through shareholder activism, to withdraw investment that helps the Sudanese government perpetuate genocide in Darfur. Only if a company refuses to change its behavior in response to shareholder engagement does the targeted divestment model call for divestment from that company. Such targeted divestment implicitly excludes companies involved in agriculture, the production and distribution of consumer goods, or the provision of goods and services intended to relieve human suffering or to promote health, religious and spiritual activities, or education.\n\nAs a response to consumer boycotts of large-scale and multinational businesses, some companies have marketed brands that do not bear the company's name on the packaging or in advertising. Activists such as Ethical Consumer produce information that reveals which companies own which brands and products so consumers can practice boycotts or moral purchasing more effectively. Another organization, Buycott.com, provides an Internet-based smart-phone application that scans Universal Product Codes and displays corporate relationships to the user.\n\n\"Boycotts\" may be formally organized by governments as well. In reality, government \"boycotts\" are just a type of embargo. Notably, the first formal, nationwide act of the Nazi government against German Jews was a national embargo of Jewish businesses on April 1, 1933.\n\nWhere the target of a boycott derives all or part of its revenues from other businesses, as a newspaper does, boycott organizers may address the target's commercial customers.\n\nWhen students are dissatisfied with a political or academic issue, a common tactic for students' unions is to start a boycott of classes (called a student strike among faculty and students since it is meant to resemble strike action by organized labor) to put pressure on the governing body of the institution, such as a university, vocational college or a school, since such institutions cannot afford to have a cohort miss an entire year.\n\nThe sociology of collective behavior is concerned with causes and conditions pertaining to behavior carried out by a collective, as opposed to an individual (e.g., riots, panics, fads/crazes, boycotts). Boycotts have been characterized by some as different from traditional forms of collective behavior in that they appear to be highly rational and dependent on existing norms and structures. Lewis Killian criticizes that characterization, pointing to the Tallahassee bus boycott as one example of a boycott that aligns with traditional collective behavior theory. \n\nPhilip Balsiger points out that political consumption (e.g., boycotts) tends to follow dual-purpose action repertoires, or scripts, which are used publicly to pressure boycott targets and to educate and recruit consumers. Balsiger finds one example in Switzerland, documenting activities of the Clean Clothes Campaign, a public NGO-backed campaign, that highlighted and disseminated information about local companies' ethical practices.\n\nDixon, Martin, and Nau analyzed 31 collective behavior campaigns against corporations that took place during the 1990s and 2000s. Protests considered successful included boycotts and were found to include a third party, either in the capacity of state intervention or of media coverage. State intervention may make boycotts more efficacious when corporation leaders fear the imposition of regulations. Media intervention may be a crucial contributor to a successful boycott because of its potential to damage the reputation of a corporation. Target corporations that were the most visible were found to be the most vulnerable to either market (protest causing economic loss) or mediated (caused by third-party) disruption. Third-party actors (i.e., the state or media) were more influential when a corporation had a high reputation—when third-party activity was low, highly reputable corporations did not make the desired concessions to boycotters; when third-party activity was high, highly reputable corporations satisfied the demands of boycotters. The boycott, a prima facie market-disruptive tactic, often precipitates mediated disruption. The researchers' analysis led them to conclude that when boycott targets are highly visible and directly interact with and depend on local consumers who can easily find substitutes, they are more likely to make concessions. Koku, Akhigbe, and Springer also emphasize the importance of boycotts' threat of reputational damage, finding that boycotts alone pose more of a threat to a corporation's reputation than to its finances directly.\n\nPhilippe Delacote points out that a problem contributing to a generally low probability of success for any boycott is the fact that the consumers with the most power to cause market disruption are the least likely to participate; the opposite is true for consumers with the least power. Another collective behavior problem is the difficulty, or impossibility, of direct coordination amongst a dispersed group of boycotters. Yuksel and Mryteza emphasize the collective behavior problem of free riding in consumer boycotts, noting that some individuals may perceive participating to be too great an immediate personal utility sacrifice. They also note that boycotting consumers took the collectivity into account when deciding to participate, that is, consideration of joining a boycott as goal-oriented collective activity increased one's likelihood of participating. A corporation-targeted protest repertoire including boycotts and education of consumers presents the highest likelihood for success. \n\nBoycotts are generally legal in developed countries. Occasionally, some restrictions may apply; for instance, in the United States, it may be unlawful for a union to engage in \"secondary boycotts\" (to request that its members boycott companies that supply items to an organization already under a boycott, in the United States); however, the union is free to use its right to speak freely to inform its members of the fact that suppliers of a company are breaking a boycott; its members then may take whatever action they deem appropriate, in consideration of that fact.\n\nBoycotts are legal under common law. The right to engage in commerce, social intercourse, and friendship includes the implied right not to engage in commerce, social intercourse, and friendship. Since a boycott is voluntary and nonviolent, the law cannot stop it. Opponents of boycotts historically have the choice of suffering under it, yielding to its demands, or attempting to suppress it through extralegal means, such as force and coercion.\n\nIn the United States, the antiboycott provisions of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) apply to all \"U.S. persons\", defined to include individuals and companies located in the United States and their foreign affiliates. The antiboycott provisions are intended to prevent United States citizens and companies being used as instrumentalities of a foreign government's foreign policy. The EAR forbids participation in or material support of boycotts initiated by foreign governments, for example, the Arab League boycott of Israel. These persons are subject to the law when their activities relate to the sale, purchase, or transfer of goods or services (including the sale of information) within the United States or between the United States and a foreign country. This covers exports and imports, financing, forwarding and shipping, and certain other transactions that may take place wholly offshore.\n\nHowever, the EAR only applies to \"foreign government initiated\" boycotts: a domestic boycott campaign arising within the United States that has the same object as the foreign-government-initiated boycott appears to be lawful, assuming that it is an independent effort not connected with the foreign government's boycott. \nOther legal impediments to certain boycotts remain. One set are Refusal to deal laws, which prohibit concerted efforts to eliminate competition by refusal to buy from or to sell to a party. Similarly, boycotts may also run afoul of Anti-discrimination laws, for example New Jersey's Law Against Discrimination prohibits any place that offers goods, services and facilities to the general public, such as a restaurant, from denying or withholding any accommodation to (\"i.e.\", not to engage in commerce with) an individual because of that individual's race (etc.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49868249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49868249", "title": "CRCC Asia", "text": "CRCC Asia\n\nCRCC Asia is an international internship provider which offers internship programs in China, Japan, Vietnam, South Korea and the UK for current university students and recent graduates. CRCC Asia matches interns with companies in professional industries such as law, finance, engineering and marketing. The company's co-directors are Daniel Nivern and Edward Holroyd Pearce.\n\nCRCC Asia began in August 2006 as two separate companies founded by Daniel Nivern and Edward Holroyd Pearce: China Consulting Ltd., a business development consulting firm; and China Recruitment, Ltd., a company that provided internships and Mandarin Chinese language courses to university students. In December 2008, the two companies merged and formed CRCC Asia Ltd.\n\nThe company received the New Horizons Award from the Cathay Pacific China Business Awards in 2010. The award recognized the company's commitment to China through business innovation and corporate social responsibility. In November 2012, CRCC Asia was named as Entrepreneur of the Year in the British Business Awards. Luise Schafer OBE joined CRCC Asia as a senior adviser in 2012. She was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 2012 in recognition of her work for British business in China.\n\nThe company became a key partner of the Manchester-China Forum in April 2013, a new business-led initiative designed to improve commercial business relations between China and Greater Manchester. The forum was launched on 26 April 2013 by the Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne.\n\nIn June 2013, CRCC Asia's consulting division in collaboration with Salford Professional Development Ltd University of Salford formed the Modern China Institute. The Institute was created to assist business owners and companies enter the Chinese market.\n\nIn March 2015 CRCC Asia partnered in collaboration with Golden Gate University to enable all program participants to receive academic credit for their internship in China. Students will attend an online course administered by Golden Gate University, with a view to educate participants about China and prepare them for their internship, among other key learning outcomes.\n\nCRCC Asia has 9 physical offices in operation as of 2018.\n\nIn March 2012, CRCC Asia worked with the UK's Department of Business, Innovation and Skills and the University of Manchester to deliver the UK government-funded Study China Programme, which placed 30 British students in internships in Beijing.\n\nIn January 2013, CRCC Asia worked with the British Council in Shanghai to offer a fully funded scholarship to a university student with a disability. The scholarship was awarded to Jessica Stubbs a MA student at Birmingham University. This partnership was continued with the announcement in August 2013 that CRCC Asia and the British Council were collaborating as part of the Generation UK scheme. An initiative designed to support more UK students to gain international experience.\n\nCRCC Asia partnered with The University of Texas at Austin's International Office in January 2013. CRCC Asia was responsible for the operation of their BE Global Internship Program based in Shanghai and Shenzhen.The program ran for six-weeks from the end of May 2013.\n\nCRCC Asia has developed a number of bespoke partnerships with a variety of universities in the UK, Italy, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the United States. CRCC Asia delivered a presentations at and the Global Internship Conference which focused explicitly on incorporating their practical internship programs within Higher Education degree programs.\n"}
{"id": "45197575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45197575", "title": "David G. Hebert", "text": "David G. Hebert\n\nDavid G. Hebert (; born 1972) is a musicologist and comparative educationist, employed as Professor of Music at Western Norway University of Applied Sciences (Bergen, Norway), where he leads the Grieg Academy Music Education (GAME) research group. He has contributed to the fields of music education, ethnomusicology, sociomusicology, comparative education, and East Asian Studies. From 2018, he is manager of the Nordic Network for Music Education, a multinational state-funded organization that sponsors intensive Master courses and exchange of university music lecturers and students across Northern Europe. He is also a Visiting Professor in Sweden with the Malmo Academy of Music at Lund University, and a Hanban Visiting Scholar with the Central Conservatory of Music, Beijing, China. \n\nHebert has worked for universities on five continents: Sibelius Academy, Boston University College of Fine Arts, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Te Wananga o Aotearoa, University of Southern Mississippi, Tokyo Gakugei University and the International Research Center for Japanese Studies. From 2012, he has also frequently lectured in Beijing for postgraduate seminars at China Conservatory, and in 2015 was a Visiting Professor in Brazil with the music PhD program at Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul. Across recent years Hebert has given keynote speeches for music conferences worldwide: Poland, Estonia, Sweden, Norway, China, Tanzania, and Uzbekistan. Hebert also serves on editorial boards of several scholarly journals, led the Historical Ethnomusicology group of the Society for Ethnomusicology (of which he is a Life member) in 2009-2011, and was Editor of the 25th anniversary proceedings of the Nordic Association for Japanese and Korean Studies. He has also been active in development of innovative postgraduate programs: In northern Europe he collaborated in development of the Master of Global Music program, and in China he has contributed to development of the Open Global Music Academy. Hebert teaches intensive courses in the field of \"global arts policy\" for an international PhD summer school in Norway and in Beijing for China University of Political Science and Law. He holds the PhD and MA degrees from University of Washington, and a BA degree from Pacific University.\n\nProf. Hebert's research is published in several scholarly books and over 30 different professional journals.\n\nIn 2012, Hebert published \"Wind Bands and Cultural Identity in Japanese Schools\", a book that identified the world's largest music competition and documented the experiences of its participants. With more than 14,000 competing wind bands and widely admired performances, Japan is an especially important nation for instrumental music education, and Hebert's ethnographic and historical monograph has been described in the journal \"Music Education Research\" as \"the most comprehensive information about concert (wind) band participation in any country.\" According to a review in the \"British Journal of Music Education\", \"David Hebert delved deep under the surface of the seemingly everyday where he discovered anomalies and cultural specifics that are unlike anything found in the West ... His book performs the remarkable: a call to explore new ways of doing high school band programmes differently.\" A sociologist with Tokyo Metropolitan University has said that this book \"can serve as an important reference and inform the decisions of those attempting to advance changes to the educational system.\" The book also describes Japanese composers, and has been used for concert program notes by prominent conductors, such as Eugene Corporon, and Tim Reynish (who describes it as \"compulsory reading for anyone interested in Japanese music\") This book helps to explain why music competitions are a global phenomenon.\n\nAccording to Roberta Pike, Hebert asserts that \"research is needed to explore the role of culture in music education.\" From a global perspective, Hebert has examined how musical practices, technologies, and genres are adopted into new contexts, including educational and religious traditions within institutions. In addition to research on Japanese composers, he has studied brass bands among Tongans and New Zealand Maori, jazz and popular music in the United States, Christmas music in Finland, multicultural and indigenous music education in Guyana, the learning of Indian music outside of Asia, and some cross-cultural music exchange projects in New Zealand and Ghana. Hebert has written of inherent tensions between originality and institutionalization, and contends that musical hybrid projects should be \"recognized as the potential wellsprings of new musical traditions.\" In 2008 at Boston University, he taught a course on the topic of \"Music Transculturation and Hybridity\". Hebert's research on this topic builds on the scholarship of Bruno Nettl, Margaret Kartomi, Mark Slobin, Timothy Taylor, and Tina Ramnarine. He twice served as keynote speaker for conferences on Music and Globalization in Poland (2014 and 2015), from which proceedings were published. \n\nHebert's work has also addressed the challenges of representing cultural diversity and embracing pluralism in music education, claiming for music a unique role in intercultural communication. He has advocated for popular music pedagogy and world music pedagogy as innovative approaches for reaching a wider population of students. Teacher educators have noted that Hebert \"guides the reader toward a sociological understanding\" of diversity, and offers \"suggestions for 'empowering music teachers to respond appropriately to the complexity of ethnic differences'.\" Extending in directions pioneered by his PhD mentor Patricia Shehan Campbell, Hebert has also written of \"the challenges of multicultural teaching in music\" and \"the central role that ethnic identity plays in musical meaning and engagement.\" His research in this area has often been in collaboration with Nordic scholars, including Eva Saether and Marja Heimonen. In 2018, along with William Coppola, he is developing \"World Music Pedagogy, Vol. 7: Higher Education\" for the Routledge series. \n\nHebert co-edited with Alexandra Kertz-Welzel (Professor and Chair, University of Munich), the 2012 book \"Patriotism and Nationalism in Music Education\". This book includes contributions by music education researchers from several continents, and discusses \"how music contributes to the creation of an emotional climate in schools, and its function in fostering the formation of particular loyalties, identities and dispositions.\" Music psychologist John Sloboda described this book as \"a 'must read' resource for anyone interested in this topic.\" According to a review in \"Fontes Artis Musicae\", Hebert and Kertz-Welzel pose \"challenging questions about the role of music teachers in propagating and inculcating patriotic sentiments\", and the book is relevant beyond the sociology of music, to any \"scholars engaged in researching comparative and political educational issues.\" Elsewhere, Hebert has argued that \"intercultural music transmission\" enables national boundaries to be positively transcended via music participation.\n\nHebert's interests in global music historiography developed as he explored such topics as how European music was adopted in Japan, and how the American genres of jazz and rock music ironically struggled to gain acceptance in American schools. In 2014 he produced a book with Jonathan McCollum (Washington College) entitled \"Theory and Method in Historical Ethnomusicology\". Through use of \"a broad spectrum of geocultural examples, the volume includes several engaging strategies for using and writing about history in order to understand the world's musics\". Ethnomusicologists Keith Howard, Daniel M. Neuman and Judah Cohen contributed chapters. Hebert now edits a book series in this field with Jonathan McCollum for Rowman and Littlefield press, \"The Lexington Series in Historical Ethnomusicology: Deep Soundings\". \n\nHebert has also been active in researching the application of new technologies in online music education and research. Prior to becoming interested in \"big data\", he authored an article examining the challenges of educating music teachers in a fully online doctoral program (at Boston University). This sparked some debate – with Kenneth H. Phillips, among others – that led to further publications on projects in Europe and Africa that made use of the Internet to support intercultural music exchange. Hebert's interests in music technology brought him to collaborations with Alex Ruthmann, and projects in digital humanities with Danish computer scientist and computational musicologist Kristoffer Jensen.\n\nHebert has researched music in Japan, where he lived for about 5 years, and he often lectures for leading universities and conservatories in China. He has published several articles and book chapters on western music in Japan (and Korea), and is editor of \"International Perspectives on Translation, Education, and Innovation in Japanese and Korean Societies\" (Springer), the 25th anniversary proceedings of the Nordic Association for Japanese and Korean Studies. Hebert has also drawn attention to East Asian arts through the International Sociological Association.\n\nHebert claims that postmodernist discourse no longer offers an adequate explanation for contemporary musical practices, and that most music philosophy suffers from an ethnocentric orientation. Rather, he advocates a global-historical perspective: that humanity has recently exited a period of \"digital prehistory\" to enter a phase of \"data saturation\" through ubiquitous mass surveillance, causing conditions he describes as \"glocalimbodied,\" meaning that local and global forces converge to \"stamp\" the identities of individual actors suspended within a social structure shaped by participatory media. Hebert also argues that music, now most commonly consumed in digital form, may be understood as \"content\" in a \"selfie-stick society\". In his view, this new context results in music creation and consumption increasingly transcending earlier connections to space and time, engendering both a blurring and reactionary institutionalization of local genres and historical styles. Consequently, Hebert contends that music education policies and practices should be re-envisioned to emphasize individual originality and empowerment via a musicianship of \"flexibility\", with inclusion of marginalized traditions, cultivation of both acoustic and digital competencies, and rejection of any ties to \"aesthetic fundamentalism\", techno-utopianism, militarism and nationalism. Music scholars have noted that Hebert \"believes music education will become more relevant and effective when it attends more completely to 'creative agency via technology and musical hybridity',\" and that \"Music learned in school should have some connection to the music the student engages with outside of school and that musicianship should be understood as an ‘embodied practice situated in sociocultural contexts’.\" An advocate for increased contemporary music, music technology, and popular music in schools, Hebert nevertheless warns that these should not be seen as panacea for poor teaching or inadequate funding and facilities, and that historical traditions – including the heritage of \"classical\" art music – still legitimately require ample space in school education. Hebert's work especially promotes the value of internationalism in teacher education, and emphasizes the importance of an international-comparative perspective for envisioning improvements to educational policies and practices.\n\n\"Criticism.\" \nWhile largely accepted, some of Hebert's conclusions have faced opposition from other scholars. His research in Japan controversially suggests that some important aspects of music history are inaccurately \"remembered\", and he has argued that similar issues may be found in common music history textbooks in the US and elsewhere. Hebert asserts that music contests can have not only positive, but also negative consequences for participants and the musical traditions they display, and require careful design for desirable outcomes. Some music educators defend traditional pedagogies that Hebert and others claim need to be redeveloped or supplemented with new approaches. Robert Walker and Roger Scruton would disagree with Hebert's position regarding the value of popular music pedagogy. Vincent Bates has argued that a \"cosmopolitan\" perspective may already receive excessive emphasis in the field of music education, while Thomas Regelski has suggested that \"culture\" – a concept emphasized in much of Hebert's writings – is a nebulous construct with questionable utility for the field.\n\nPrimarily employed as a professor, Hebert continues to perform as a professional musician in various genres, and teaches a course in songwriting. A jazz trumpeter and classical bass baritone singer, in 2013-2015 he had occasional work as a professional chorus member (Edvard Grieg Kor) with the Bergen Philharmonic Orchestra, Bergen National Opera, and Berlin Philharmonic. In the 1990s, Hebert performed as singer-songwriter with Portland, Oregon-based alternative rock band \"Post Impression\", which shared stages with The Posies, Heatmiser and Everclear. He later played as a member of Zimbabwean band Maichi Maraire and Kubatana, Seattle-based Cuban salsa band \"Son \"de Cinco a Siete\", and his own jazz groups. Moving to Tokyo, he performed as trumpeter and vocalist in the duo \"Jazz de Iitomo\" with Johnny Todd, jazz pianist/arranger and former bandleader for Don Ho. Together with Todd, he recorded an album for vocalist Midori Takamura and had a few appearances with Mika Todd from hit J-Pop group Minimoni. In 2003, he also developed an original opera in Japan in collaboration with Belgian artist Eric Van Hove and electronic musician Kenji Williams. In New Zealand, he performed as a trumpeter with Auckland Symphony Orchestra and Manukau Symphony Orchestra, and in Russia he recorded with the experimental free improvisation group Moscow Conservatory \"Pan-Asian Ensemble\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21367045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21367045", "title": "Demonstrations in Physics", "text": "Demonstrations in Physics\n\nDemonstrations in Physics was an educational science series produced in Australia by ABC Television in 1969. The series was hosted by American scientist Julius Sumner Miller, who demonstrated experiments involving various disciplines in the world of physics. The series was also released in the United States under the title Science Demonstrations.\n\nThis program was a series of 45 shows (approximately 15 minutes each) on various topics in physics, organized into 3 units: Mechanics; Heat and Temperature / Toys; and Waves and Sound / Electricity and Magnetism.\n\nFollowing is a listing of episode titles, as given by the index on one set of the videos (the titles as introduced by Professor Miller during the episode are often different).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1332627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1332627", "title": "Education in Iran", "text": "Education in Iran\n\nEducation in Iran is centralized and divided into K-12 education plus higher education. K-12 education is supervised by the Ministry of Education and higher education is under supervision of Ministry of Science and Technology and Ministry of Health and Medical Education (Iran). As of September 2015, 93% of the Iranian adult population are literate. In 2008, 85% of the Iranian adult population were literate, well ahead of the regional average of 62%. This rate increases to 97% among young adults (aged between 15 and 24) without any gender discrepancy. By 2007, Iran had a student to workforce population ratio of 10.2%, standing among the countries with highest ratio in the world.\n\nPrimary school (\"Dabestân دبستان\") starts at the age of 6 for a duration of 6 years. Middle school, also known as First 3 years of Dabirestân (\"Dabirestân دوره اول دبیرستان\"), goes from the seventh to the ninth grade. High school (\"Dabirestân دوره دوم دبیرستان\"), for which the last three years is not mandatory, is divided between theoretical, vocational/technical and manual, each program with its own specialties. The requirement to enter into higher education is to have a High school diploma, and finally pass the national university entrance examination, Iranian University Entrance Exam (\"Konkur کنکور\"), which is the equivalent of the French baccalauréat exam.\n\nUniversities, institutes of technology, medical schools and community colleges, provide the higher education. Higher education is sanctioned by different levels of diplomas: \"Fogh-e-Diplom\" or \"Kārdāni\" after 2 years of higher education, \"Kārshenāsi\" (also known under the name “licence”) is delivered after 4 years of higher education (Bachelor's degree). \"Kārshenāsi-ye Arshad\" is delivered after 2 more years of study (Master's degree). After which, another exam allows the candidate to pursue a doctoral program (PhD).\n\nThe first Western-style public schools were established by Haji-Mirza Hassan Roshdieh. Amir Kabir (the Grand Minister) helped the first modern Iranian college establish in the mid-nineteenth century, and the first Iranian University modelled after European Universities established during the first Pahlavi period.\nThere are both free public schools and private schools in Iran at all levels, from elementary school through university. Education in Iran is highly centralized. The Ministry of Education is in charge of educational planning, financing, administration, curriculum, and textbook development. Teacher training, grading, and examinations are also the responsibility of the Ministry. At the university level, however, every student attending public schools is required to commit to serve the government for a number of years typically equivalent to those spent at the university, or pay it off for a very low price (typically a few hundred dollars) or completely free if one can prove inability to pay to the Islamic government (Post secondary and university). During the early 1970s, efforts were made to improve the educational system by updating school curriculation, introducing modern textbooks, and training more efficient teachers.\n\nThe 1979 revolution continued the country's emphasis on education with the new government putting its own stamp on the process. The most important change was the Islamization of the education system. All students were segregated by sex. In 1980, the Cultural Revolution Committee was formed to oversee the institution of Islamic values in education. An arm of the committee, the Center for Textbooks (composed mainly of clerics), produced 3,000 new college-level textbooks reflecting Islamic views by 1983. Teaching materials based on Islam were introduced into the primary grades within six months of the revolution.\n\nEach year, 20% of government spending and 5% of GDP goes to education, a higher rate than most other developing countries. 50% of education spending is devoted to secondary education and 21% of the annual state education budget is devoted to the provision of tertiary education.\n\nThe \"Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (2005-2010)\" has envisaged upgrading the quality of the educational system at all levels, as well as reforming education curricula, and developing appropriate programs of vocational training, a continuation of the trend towards labor market oriented education and training.\n\nWith the new education reform plan in 2012, the Pre-university year will be replaced with an additional year in elementary school. Students will have the same teacher for the first 3 years of primary school. Emphasis will be made on research, knowledge production and questioning instead of math and memorizing alone. In the new system the teacher will no longer be the only instructor but a facilitator and guide.\n\nOther more general goals of the education reform are:\n\nFarhangian University is the university of teacher education and human resource development in Ministry of Education. Teacher Training Centers in Iran are responsible for training teachers for primary, orientation cycle, and gifted children’s schools. These centers offer four-year programs leading to a BA or BS degree in teaching the relevant subject. Students that enter Teacher Training Centers, have at minimum, completed a High school diploma. A national entrance examination is required for admission.\n\nThere are 98 teacher-training centers in Iran, all belonging to Farhangian University.\n\nPersian is officially the national language of Iran. Arabic, as the language of Koran, is taught grades 6-11. In addition to Arabic, students are required to take one foreign language class in grades 7-12. Although other foreign languages such as German, French, Spanish and Chinese are offered in most urban schools, English continues to be the most desired language.\n\n\"Kanoun-e-Zabaan-e-Iran\" or Iran's Language Institute affiliated to Center for Intellectual Development of Children and Young Adults was founded in 1979. Persian, English, French, Spanish, German and Arabic are taught to over 175,000 students during each term.\n\nEnglish language is studied in rahnamaei (literally meaning, guidance or orientation), an equivalent for middle school in other countries. Middle school is a period of three years and it covers grades 6-8 for students aged 11 to 13 years old. The government is now considering teaching English language from primary school level. However, the quality of English education in schools is not satisfactory and most of students in order to obtain a better English fluency and proficiency have to take English courses in private institutes.\n\nPresently, there are over 5000 foreign language schools in the country, 200 of which are situated in Tehran. A few television channels air weekly English and Arabic language sessions, particularly for university candidates who are preparing for the annual entrance test.\n\nMost teaching of English starts in middle school (age 12-14), but before 2018, some primary schools (age 12 and below) also taught English. However, in January 2018, a senior educational official announced on state television that teaching English is banned in primary schools, including non-government primary schools.\n\nFull Internet service is available in all major cities and it is very rapidly increasing. Many small towns and even some villages now have full Internet access. The government aims to provide 10% of government and commercial services via the Internet by end-2008 and to equip every school with computers and connections by the same date.\n\nPayame Noor University (established 1987) as a provider exclusively of distance education courses is a state university under the supervision of the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology.\n\nAs of 2013, 4.5 million students are enrolled in universities, out of a total population of 75 million. Iranian universities graduate almost 750,000 annually.\n\nThe tradition of university education in Iran goes back to the early centuries of Islam. By the 20th century, however, the system had become antiquated and was remodeled along French lines. The country's 16 universities were closed after the 1979 revolution and were then reopened gradually between 1982 and 1983 under Islamic supervision.\n\nWhile the universities were closed, the Cultural Revolution Committee investigated professors and teachers and dismissed those who were believers in Marxism, liberalism, and other \"imperialistic\" ideologies. The universities reopened with Islamic curricula. In 1997, all higher-level institutions had 40,477 teachers and enrolled 579,070 students.\n\nAdmission to public universities, some are tuition-free, is based solely on performance on the nationwide Konkour exam. Some alternative to the public universities is the Islamic Azad University which charges high fees.\n\nThe syllabus of all the universities in Iran is decided by a national council as a result the difference of the quality of education among the universities is only based on the location and the quality of the students and the faculty members. Among all top universities in the country there are three universities each notable for some reasons:\n\nThe University of Tehran (founded in 1934) has 10 faculties, including a department of Islamic theology. It is the oldest (in the modern system) and biggest university in Iran. It has been the birthplace of several social and political movements.\n\nTarbiat Modares University (means: professor training university) also located in Tehran is the only exclusively post-graduate institute in Iran. It only offers Master's, PhD, and Postdoc programs. It is also the most comprehensive Iranian university in the sense that it is the only university under the Iranian Ministry of Science System that has a Medical School. All other Medical Schools in Iran are a separate university and governed under the Ministry of Health; for example Tehran University of Medical Sciences (commonly known as Medical School of Tehran University) is in fact separate from Tehran University.\n\nSharif University of Technology also located in Tehran is nationally well known for taking in the top undergraduate Engineering and Science students; and internationally recognized for training competent under graduate students. It has probably the highest percentage of graduates who seek higher education abroad.\n\nK.N.Toosi University of Technology and Amirkabir University of Technology are among most prestigious universities in Tehran.\nOther major universities are at Shiraz, Tabriz, Esfahan, Mashhad, Ahvaz, Kerman, Kermanshah, Babolsar, Rasht, and Orumiyeh. There are about 50 colleges and 40 technological institutes.\n\nIn 2009, 33.7% of all those in the 18-25 age group were enrolled in one of the 92 universities, 512 Payame Noor University branches, and 56 research and technology institutes around the country. There are currently some 3.7 million university students in Iran and 1.5 million study at the 500 branches of Islamic Azad University. Iran had 1 million medical students in 2011.\n\nIn recent decades Iran has shown an increasing interest in various entrepreneurship fields, in higher educational settings, policy making and business. Although primary and secondary school textbooks do not address entrepreneurship, several universities including Tehran University and Sharif University, offer courses on entrepreneurship to undergraduate and graduate students.\n\nIn accordance with the third five-year development plan, the “entrepreneurship development plan in Iranian universities”, (known as KARAD Plan) was developed, and launched in twelve universities across the country, under the supervision of Management and Planning Organization and the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology.\n\nIn September 2012, women made up more than 60% of all universities’ student body in Iran. However, the numbers were not always this promising; this high level of achievement and involvement in high education is a recent development of the past decades. The right to a respectable education has been a major demand of the Iranian women’s movement starting in the early twentieth century. Before the 1979 revolution a limited number of women went to male-dominated schools and most traditional families did not send their girls to school because the teachers were men or the school was not Islamic. During the 1990s, women’s enrolment in educational institutions began to increase. The establishment and the expansion of private universities “daneshgah-e-azad-e islami” \nalso contributed to the increasing enrollment for both women and men. Under the presidency of Rafsanjani and the High council of cultural Revolution, the Women’s social and cultural council was set up and charged with studying the legal, social, and economic problems of women. The council, with the support of Islamic feminists worked to lift all restrictions on women entering any fields of study in 1993. After the Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and his new regime prioritized the Islamization of the Iranian education system for both women and men. When Khomeini died in 1989, under president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, many but not all restrictions on women’s education were lifted, albeit with controversy. The right to education for everyone without discrimination is explicitly guaranteed under Iran’s constitution and international documents, which Iran has accepted or to which it is a party. Some scholars believe that women have poor access to higher education because of certain policies and the oppression of women’s right in Iran’s strictly Islamic society. However, Iranian women do have fair access to higher education as seen by a significant increase in female enrollment and graduation rates as women university students now outnumber males, Iranian women emerge to more prominent positions in the labor force, and the presence and confidence of professional women in the public sphere. The opportunities for women education and their involvement in higher education has grown exponentially after the Iranian Revolution. According to UNESCO world survey, Iran has the highest female to male ratio at primary level of enrollment in the world among sovereign nations, with a girl to boy ratio of 1.22 : 1.00.\n\nThe National Organization for Development of Exceptional Talents (NODET), also known as SAMPAD (سمپاد), maintains middle and high schools in Iran. These schools were shut down for a few years after the revolution, but later re-opened. Admittance is based on an entrance examination and is very competitive. Their tuition is similar to private schools but may be partially or fully waived depending on the students' financial condition.\nSome NODET alumni are world-leading scientists.\nOther schools are Selective Schools which are called \"Nemoone Dolati\".These schools are controlled by the government and have no fees.Students take this entrance exam alongside with NODET exams.\n\nOERP is a government affiliated, scientific, learning organization. It has qualitative and knowledge-based curricula consistent with the scientific and research findings, technological, national identity, Islamic and cultural values.\n\nOERP's Responsibilities:\n\n1. To research on the content of the educational,\n2. To study and develop simple methods for examinations and educational assessments,\n3. To write, edit and print text-books,\n4. To identify and provide educational tools and the list of standards for educational tools and equipments,\n5. To run pure research on improving the quality and quantity of education,\n6. To perform other responsibilities issued by the OERP Council.\n\nIn alphabetical order:\n\nIran has three International Baccalaureate (IB) schools. They are Mehr-e-Taban International School, Shahid Mahdavi International School, and Tehran International School.\n\nMehr-e-Taban International School is an authorized IB world school in Shiraz offering the Primary Years Programme, Middle Years Programme and Diploma Programme. Shahid Mahdavi School is an IB world school in Tehran offering the Primary Years Programme and Middle Years Programme. Tehran International School is an IB world school in Tehran offering the Diploma Programme.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22201996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22201996", "title": "Elisabeth Vreede", "text": "Elisabeth Vreede\n\nElisabeth Vreede (16 July 1879 in The Hague – 31 August 1943 in Ascona) was a Dutch mathematician, astronomer and Anthroposophist.\n\nElisabeth Vreede was born in The Hague in 1879. She was her parents' second child. Her father was a lawyer and her mother devoted her time to charitable work. She was a sensitive person and later on played an important part in the Anthroposophical life in the Netherlands.\n\nElisabeth Vreede came into contact with Theosophy in her home growing up. She was interested early on in the starry sky, read the works of Camille Flammarion and learned French at the same time. She first went to school at the age of seven. She completed her years in primary and higher schools and afterwards took private studies for two years, so as to gain qualifications for university entrance.\n\nAt the University of Leyden she studied mathematics, astronomy, philosophy (especially Hegel) and Sanskrit. She was also actively involved in student life, founding a boatclub, and was a council member of the students' union.\n\nHer first meeting with Rudolf Steiner took place at the Theosophical Congress in London in 1903. Her parents were theosophists and she, too, was a member of the Theosophical Society. At the congress Rudolf Steiner straightaway made a great impression on her. A year later she heard Steiner's lecture on 'Mathematics and Occultism' given at the Congress of the Federation of European Sections of the Theosophical Society at Amsterdam in 1904. The next European Congress was in 1906 when Steiner held a cycle of 18 lectures there.\n\nAfter receiving her diploma in 1906, she gave instruction in mathematics at a higher girls school until 1910. From 1910, she lived in Berlin, working on her dissertation and occasionally working as a secretary for Rudolf Steiner. In April 1914 she moved to Dornach to help in the work for the first Goetheanum, where she would often be found carving the wood required for the building.\n\nM. P. van Deventer who would become Vreede's biographer first met her in the summer of 1915. She was living with her parents in a small house in Neu-Reinach. From an elevated position there was a beautiful view over the building and over the chain of the Canton of Jura, with the Gempen.\n\nDuring the War years 1916/17 Elisabeth Vreede broke off from her residence in Dornach to work in Berlin as a coworker of Elisabeth Rotten, caring for prisoners of war.\n\nAfter the War, Rudolf Steiner developed his idea of the threefold social order. Vreede had an intense interest in this initiative and work and she was the first to bring this idea to England. Around 1918 she began to construct the library and archive at the Goetheanum, using her own means to purchase the expensive lecture transcripts as soon as they were typed from the stenogram. Occasionally friends contributed to her efforts to build an archive.\n\nIn 1920 Vreede moved to Arlesheim where she had built a small house of her own. It was the second dwelling-house for which Rudolf Steiner himself had given the model in 1919. There, in Arlesheim, Ita Wegman founded the first anthroposophical medical clinic in 1921.\n\nIn December 1923 Vreede was appointed as leader of the Mathematical-Astronomical Section of the School of Spiritual Science at the Goetheanum. She belonged to the board of directors (\"Vorstand\") of the General Anthroposophical Society from December 1923 to 1935. Between September 1927 and August 1930, in her capacity as leader of the Mathematical-Astronomical Section, she wrote a monthly letter, then available by subscription, about both modern astronomy and classical astrology in the light of spiritual science. The letters included explanations of the fundamentals of astronomy and discussions of astrology in the modern world, with reference to such topics as nutation, precession of the equinoxes, comets, solar eclipses and lunar eclipses and the meaning of the Christian holidays such as Easter and Whitsun. The Letters in English translation were published in 2007 with the title \"Astronomy and Spiritual Science\".\n\nOn July 9 and 11, 1930 she held two lectures in Stuttgart with the title \"The Bodhisattva Question in the History of the Anthroposophical Society\", published in English translation in 1993.\n\nWhen the separation within the Anthroposophical Society took place in 1935 Vreede was expelled from the \"Vorstand\" and her Section passed into other hands. This resulted after internal discussions in the Anthroposophical Society. On her exclusion from the \"Vorstand\" along with Ita Wegman, Vreede was cut off from the observatory and archives that she herself helped assemble.\n\nThe last years of her life became more lonely. She was cut off from her friends abroad by the War. The death of Ita Wegman at the beginning of March, 1943, was a great shock for her. At the internal commemoration in the clinic she spoke words at her eulogy. It was the first time she faced her former colleagues on the \"Vorstand\".\n\nOn the anniversary of Rudolf Steiner's death (30 March) she spoke to the circle of friends and co-workers in Ita Wegman's clinic at Arlesheim. They wanted to commemorate not just Rudolf Steiner but also the many who had been leading Anthroposophists but who to most were no longer known. She spoke in a devoted way of Edith Maryon, and with a fine characterization of her being about Alice Sauerwein. She portrayed Count Keyserlingk and Louis Werbeck. Finally she told about Caroline von Heydebrand and Eugen Kolisko.\n\nAt the beginning of May she spoke once more on the 400th anniversary of the death of Copernicus. At the lecture it was noticed that only by exceptional exertion could she keep herself upright. A few days later, on 6 May, she had to take her bed. She, who had never before been ill nor depended on people, was treated at home thanks to the devoted care of Frl. Schunemann.\n\nIt was a case of septic disease. Phases of high fever with shivering fits repeatedly recurred. Nourishment could not be taken and complications supervened, like cardiac insuffiency and blood-poisoning. For her treatment Dr. Kaelin and Dr. Martin stood beside her biographer, M. P. van Deventer, with advice and help. The septicaemia spread rapidly. After a slight improvement she went finally to Ascona, where the Casa Andrea Cristoforo clinic had been founded by Ita Wegman, and died there on 31 August 1943.\n\n"}
{"id": "25812385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25812385", "title": "Environment Online", "text": "Environment Online\n\nEnvironment Online (ENO) is a global school network and web community for sustainable development, established 2000 in Finland \n\nEnvironmental themes are studied throughout the school year, with campaigns arranged simultaneously around the world. Over 10,000 schools from 150 countries have taken part since the network began. The ENO program is coordinated and maintained by the ENO Programme Association, based in the city of Joensuu. Schools have made concrete pledges for helping the environment, such as having planted five million trees to date. ENO has won several international citations and prizes.\n"}
{"id": "1021407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1021407", "title": "Eugene Volokh", "text": "Eugene Volokh\n\nEugene Volokh ( ;; born February 29, 1968) is a Ukrainian-American legal scholar known for his scholarship in American constitutional law and libertarianism, as well as his prominent legal blog \"The Volokh Conspiracy\". He is the Gary T. Schwartz Professor of Law at the UCLA School of Law, and is an academic affiliate at the law firm Mayer Brown.\n\nVolokh was born \"Yevhen Volodymyrovych Volokh\" (; ) on February 29, 1968, to a Jewish family residing in Kiev, Ukraine, which was then still part of Soviet Ukraine. He immigrated with his family to the United States at the age of seven. Volokh exhibited extraordinary mathematical abilities from an early age, attending university level mathematics and calculus courses at the age of nine. Aged 10, he earned a 780 out of a possible 800 on the math portion of what is now called the SAT-I. \n\nAt the age of 12, he began working as a computer programmer. He attended the Hampshire College Summer Studies in Mathematics. As a junior at UCLA, he earned $480 a week as a programmer for 20th Century Fox. During this period, Volokh's achievements were featured in an episode of \"OMNI: The New Frontier\", a television series hosted by Peter Ustinov. He graduated from UCLA at age 15 with a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics and computer science. \n\nIn 1989, Volokh entered the UCLA Law School. He graduated in 1992 with a Juris Doctor degree. After law school, he clerked for Judge Alex Kozinski of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, then for Justice Sandra Day O'Connor of the U.S. Supreme Court. Upon completing his Supreme Court clerkship in 1994, UCLA hired Volokh as a professor of law. He has remained there ever since, and currently holds the position of Gary T. Schwartz Professor of Law.\n\nVolokh is commonly described as politically conservative or libertarian. In 2012, one commentator described Volokh's politics as \"soft libertarian\", and Volokh as an \"unpredictable libertarian-leaning\" writer.\n\nIn the 2008 presidential election, Volokh supported former Tennessee Senator Fred Thompson, saying Thompson had good instincts on legal issues and that he preferred Thompson's positions on the First Amendment and political speech to McCain's sponsorship of campaign finance reform. Volokh also liked Thompson's position in favor of individual gun ownership. He noted that Thompson \"takes federalism seriously, and he seems to have a fairly deep-seated sense that there is a real difference between state and federal power.\"\n\nVolokh is a supporter of same-sex marriage.\n\nVolokh's article about \"The Commonplace Second Amendment\", was cited by Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia's majority opinion in the landmark Second Amendment case of \"District of Columbia v. Heller\", and he has been quoted in the media on gun laws. Volokh advocates campus speech rights, religious freedom, and other First Amendment issues, and has been widely quoted as an expert. He opposes affirmative action, having worked as a legal advisor to California's Proposition 209 campaign. Volokh is a critic of what he sees as the overly broad operation of American workplace harassment laws, including those relating to sexual harassment.\n\nOn his weblog, Volokh addresses a wide variety of issues, with a focus on politics and law.\n\nVolokh's non-academic work has been published in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Los Angeles Times\", \"The New York Times\", \"Slate\", and other publications. Since May 2005 he has been a contributing blogger at \"The Huffington Post\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52012246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52012246", "title": "Fatbardha Gega", "text": "Fatbardha Gega\n\nFatbardha Gega (1919-1999) was an Albanian pedagogist, and one of the best-known academics of Albanian pedagogical and psychological thought in the second half of the twentieth century in Albania.\n\nGega was born in Fier, Albania. After finishing the Woman’s Institute Nana Mbretneshë in Tirana, she studied in the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Florence in Italy.\n\nShe started working as a teacher of history in 1942 at the school \"Donika Kastrioti\" in Shkodër. She was the director of this school and deputy director of history, pedagogy and psychology in the Tirana secondary pedagogical school \"17 Nëntori\". In 1965, she worked as a scientific collaborator in the Institute of Studies and School Publications, while from 1966 she was in the Directorate of Pedagogical Studies in the Ministry of Education.\n\nGega left many creative works as a legacy for the fund of Albanian pedagogy. She compiled the text \"\"Psychology\" (for secondary pedagogical schools)\" and was co-author of the text \"Methods of teaching – educational work in school\" (1972). In the book \"To forge strong characters\" (1968), she raised her voice against pedagogical bureaucracy and offers an original treatment of modern Albanian pedagogy. She did the same in her works. \"The school and the family, (Important factors in the civic education of children)\", \"Teacher – pupil relations\" and others. New pages in didactic and historical pedagogical thought were written in her articles. Her principal work were collected and published in Tirana with title \"For you teachers and parents\" (2002).\n\n"}
{"id": "17234445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17234445", "title": "Feminist theory in composition studies", "text": "Feminist theory in composition studies\n\nIn composition studies, feminism is generally focused on giving feedback while taking into account gender difference. Thus, an instructor with a feminist pedagogy is unlikely to favor an androcentric method of teaching. A feminist approach in composition \"would focus on questions of difference and dominance in written language\".\n\nIn the 1960s, the second wave of feminism began and one major goal was to raise society’s consciousness of the struggles of women. The goals of feminists were largely carried out in university classrooms. Specifically, in the composition classroom, Faye Spencer Moar claimed that the way writing was taught largely favored male writers. Mary P Hiatt claimed that women implicitly write differently than men, and that men tended to write in the dominant, most oft taught style.\n\nHiatt argues that the terms \"masculine\" and \"feminine\" are applied to styles of writing–that of men and women, respectively–but, instead of describing the style, what is actually described is the male views on both men and women. Her examples include \"strong\", \"rational\", and \"logical\" for men, and \"emotional\", \"hysterical\", and \"silly\" for women. Thus, the aim of feminism in composition studies was to create a classroom in which women perceived themselves intellectually and in which their voices were relevant in what some feminists perceive to be an androcentric world.\n\nElizabeth Flynn writes that feminist theory \"emphasize[s] that males and females differ in their developmental processes and in their interactions with others\". Thus, a feminist instructor will take into account the implicit differences between male and female writers and teach appropriately, without favoring or focusing on androcentric or gynocentric studies. Feminist pedagogy involves reading texts written by women, and taking care to understand those texts are not simply appropriations of texts written by men, without any sort of critique of androcentrism.\n\nFocus is also placed upon the reading and reviewing of student-created texts. Feminist instructors try to create a supportive classroom environment and validate student’s experiences. Susan Jarratt mentions a feminist pedagogy that advocates women writing about \"personal experiences after reading women’s autobiography, history, and fiction\".\n\nOne style of feminist theory that is being utilized in the composition classroom is the theory of Invitational Rhetoric. Sonja K. Foss and Cindy L. Griffin, first proposed the idea of Invitational Rhetoric as \"grounded in the feminist principles of equality, imminent value and self-determination\" (5). Originally this was considered a communication theory. More recently, it has grown across curriculums, including the use in English composition classrooms. As a newer philosophy in English composition, the use of invitational rhetoric is used as a way to make students feel comfortable in the classroom setting. By using Foss and Griffin’s Invitational Rhetoric theory as a guide in conducting classes, instructors are able to encourage their students to share their beliefs and learn to respect others opinions, without having to feel like opposite views are being force-fed to them in a way that would cause them to turn away from debate or discussions that could foster critical thinking. According to Foss and Griffin, Invitational Rhetoric works through the use of debate and discussion as a way to learn about various viewpoints, with the freedom to ultimately make up one’s own minds about the topic. Abby Knoblauch describes the use of Invitational Rhetoric as a way to make sure conservative students are not put on the offensive by more liberal teachers and their ideals. By using Invitational Rhetoric as a guide in presenting material, an instructor can in turn foster a student’s creativity and encourage them to write about what is important to them.\n\nFlynn researched the narratives of her first-year composition students for their disparities. She says, \"The narratives of the female students are stories of interaction, of connection, or of frustrated connection. The narratives of the male students are stories of achievement, of separation, or of frustrated achievement\". Feminist research \"tries to arrive at hypotheses that are free of gender loyalties,\" says Patricia A. Sullivan.\n\nSandra Harding lists three characteristics of feminist research in her book \"Feminism and Methodology\" that Sullivan deems appropriate for consideration into feminist studies of composition, not just the social sciences, which is what Harding is concerned with. These characteristics are, first, using women’s experiences as an \"indicator of the realist against which hypotheses are tested.\" Second, the research is \"designed for women\" and provides \"social phenomena that [women] want or need.\" Third, it \"insists that the inquirer her/himself be placed in the same critical plane as the overt subject matter\" .\n\nSullivan believes these three characteristics are relevant to composition studies because of the common practice to conduct research from a standpoint that is gender-neutral (neither men over women, nor vice versa), gender-inclusive (considering both male and female perspectives, processes, and styles, not just those of females), and researcher disinterestedness (the common practice of keeping one’s self out of the research process in order to allow for an unbiased analysis).\n"}
{"id": "38571196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38571196", "title": "Garwhashad Institute of Higher Education", "text": "Garwhashad Institute of Higher Education\n\nThe Gawharshad Institute of Higher Education is a private university in Kabul. It was established by Sima Samar in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "27766715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27766715", "title": "Gauri Ma", "text": "Gauri Ma\n\nGauri Ma (February, 1857 – 1 March 1938), born Mridani, was a prominent Indian disciple of Ramakrishna, companion of Sarada Devi and founder of Kolkata's Saradeswari Ashram.\n\nWhile Gauri Ma was living at Dakshineswar, Sri Ramakrishna gave her the ochre robes of a sannyasini and made arrangements for the accompanying rituals. Sri Ramakrishna himself offered a bilva leaf into the homa fire. Prior to this, Gauri Ma had worn a sannyasini's robes as an external sign of renunciation, but she had not taken any formal vows. After this ritual, he gave her a new name Gauriananda. Sri Ramakrishna usually called her Gauri or Gauridasi, and some people called her Gaurma. But Gauri Ma was the name by which she was generally known. \n\nGauri Ma was born in Sibpur, Howrah, India. Even as a child she possessed a strong tendency toward Hindu spirituality. By her thirteenth year, Gauri Ma had developed a distaste for marriage, telling her mother, \"I shall marry only that bridegroom who is immortal,\" meaning she wished to marry Krishna and no other.\n\nWhen Gauri Ma was young she had received from a yogini a stone image of Sri Krishna. The yogini told her, \"This image of God is my all in all and is alive with Divine energy. He has fallen in love with you, so I am handing him over to you. My child, worship him. It will do good to you.\" Gauri Ma accepted the gift and took the image of Sri Krishna as her husband. For the rest of her life she carried the stone image with her and served him lovingly. Gauri Ma received initiation from Sri Ramakrishna at an early age in Ghola.\n\nIn 1875 Gauri Ma left with relatives and neighbours to go on pilgrimage to Gangasagar. On the third day of her stay, she disappeared into a crowd of pilgrims, disguising herself as a sadhvi to evade recognition. She began travelling by train and by foot to holy sites and monasteries throughout India. During her years of pilgrimage Gauri Ma practised severe austerities such as fasting, observing silence, and long hours of meditation. She also spent a great deal of time studying the Hindu scriptures.\n\nGauri Ma lived as a companion to Sarada Devi, the wife of Ramakrishna, whenever she was at Dakshineswar. Gauri Ma also sometimes cooked for her Guru Ramakrishna, and sang to him. Ramakrishna had a very high opinion of her, declaring, \"Gauri is a perfect soul – a gopi of Vrindavan.\" \n\nWhile Gauri Ma was living at Dakshineswar, Sri Ramakrishna gave her the ochre robes of a sannyasini and made arrangements for the accompanying rituals. Sri Ramakrishna himself offered a bilva leaf into the homa fire. Prior to this, Gauri Ma had worn a sannyasini's robes as an external sign of renunciation, but she had not taken any formal vows. After this ritual, he gave her a new name Gauriananda. Sri Ramakrishna usually called her Gauri or Gauridasi, and some people called her Gaurma. But Gauri Ma was the name by which she was generally known. \n\nRamakrishna encouraged Gauri Ma to settle down from her life of pilgrimage and devote herself to working for the betterment of women in India. The women of India's plight was great, and Ramakrishna wished her to work to improve their education and development, both intellectually and spiritually. Gauri Ma protested, that she had neither the proper training nor education for such a feat. Ramakrishna replied, \"I am pouring the water. You knead the clay.\"\n\nSwami Vivekananda echoed Ramakrishna's praise for Gauri Ma stating, \"Where is Gauri Ma? We want a thousand such mothers with that noble stirring spirit.\" Gauri Ma was gently reminded by Sarada Devi, \"The Master (Ramakrishna) said that your life was meant for serving women – the living goddess.\"\n\nIn 1895, the Saradeswari Ashram was started by Gauri Ma. Residence, board and instruction were free to unmarried, married and widowed women. Village girls also came in the afternoon. After returning from his first visit to America, Swami Vivekananda visited the ashram and told Gauri Ma, \"I have talked to the western people about you, and shall take you there and show them what the type of women India can produce.\"\n\nSwami Vivekananda wrote, \"There is no chance for the welfare of the world unless the condition of women is improved. It is not possible for a bird to fly on only one wing. Hence, in the Ramakrishna incarnation, the acceptance of woman as the Guru, hence his practising in the women's garb and attitude, hence too his preaching the Motherhood of women as the representations of the Divine Mother. Hence it is my first endeavour to start a math (convent) for women. This math shall be the origin of Gargis and Maitreyis and women of even higher attainments than these... (Letters of Vivekananda)\nPlease show this letter to Gauri Ma, Jogin M, etc., and through them establish a women's math. Let Gaur Ma be the President there...I shall supply all the necessary expenses for that work also.\" (Letter from England 1896). \n\nIn 1911, the Ashram moved to Kolkata. Sarada Devi often visited the ashram, serving as an inspiration to those who were living there. For thirteen years, the ashram was located in rented houses, moving four times to accommodate its growing population. After raising funds, in 1924 a three-story permanent ashram was constructed at its present location.\n\nEducation, to Gauri Ma, was a national duty. She taught that if the training of women is neglected, the whole nation suffers. A mother's intelligence, love and insight nurture the child. The Saradeswari Ashram, therefore, pursued programs of education that strived for the regeneration of womankind.\n\nGauri Ma carefully selected teachers for the ashram who lived ideal lives of simplicity and purity, of high thinking, and who dedicated themselves to the cause of women. The Saradeswari Ashram had four purposes: 1. To spread education among women according to the ideas of Hinduism and society; 2. To organise women to be workers for the Ashram; 3. To give shelter to girls and widows in indigent circumstances but belonging to respectable families; 4. To help women in their endeavour to live decent and virtuous lives.\n"}
{"id": "27049053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27049053", "title": "Glo-Bus", "text": "Glo-Bus\n\nThe Global Business Simulation Strategy Game, or \"Glo-Bus,\" by McGraw-Hill Irwin is a Business simulation game.\n\nIt was developed in 2008 to help educate students in the field of Business Strategy. Glo-Bus is the sister game to its old brother Business Strategy Game that dates back to the early 1990s.\n\nThe strategy game focuses upon aspects such as Production design, marketing, assembly (for both entry-level and multi-featured), compensation and labor, discount bids, corporate citizenship,and finance and cash flow.\n\nEvery player makes decisions in their respective companies which is submitted before a due date in which the game \"turns\" one year. The next financial year shows who has met investor expectations or who is clearly the most profitable in the industry.\n\nThe five criteria which companies are ranked on are earnings per share, credit rating, stock price, return on equity, and image rating.\n\nThe Business Strategy Game is used in many post secondary Bachelor of Business programs in North America. It is usually a cornerstone assignment in a strategic management class. Those who are able to beat their entire class are crowned Industry Champions and are invited to attend the Glo-Bus Invitational (BSI). Roughly 8% of all students who play Glo-Bus become Industry Champions. Those who win the BSI (Less than half a percent of all students who have played Glo-Bus), become Grand Champions which is the highest level of accomplishment in the Business Strategy Game.\n\n"}
{"id": "32540717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32540717", "title": "Howard Barrows", "text": "Howard Barrows\n\nHoward S. Barrows (March 28, 1928 – March 25, 2011) was an American physician and medical educator who was Professor Emeritus at the Southern Illinois University School of Medicine where he had previously served as Associate Dean for Educational Affairs and Chair of Medical Education. Trained as a neurologist, Barrows is best known today for his many innovations in medical education, particularly teaching using Problem-Based Learning (PBL), developed while he was a professor at McMaster University Medical School, assessing clinical skills using simulated patients, and studying clinical reasoning using stimulated recall techniques.\n\nBarrows was born in Oak Park, Illinois on March 28, 1928. He attended a community college in San Mateo, California and went on to complete a BA in Zoology at the University of California, Berkeley in 1949. He attended medical school at University of Southern California (USC) College of Medicine and completed his M.D. in 1953. He interned at Lennox Hill Hospital in New York city and subsequently served two years at Parks Air Force Base in California as a medical officer. Barrows returned to New York city in 1957 to complete his residency in neurology at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center.\n\nBarrows joined the USC faculty in 1960, advancing to the rank of Professor of Neurology. In 1971, he joined the recently founded Faculty of Medicine at McMaster University in Hamilton Ontario. It was at McMaster where he developed the PBL curriculum. A decade later, he was recruited to serve as the Associate Dean for Educational Affairs at Southern Illinois University (SIU) School of Medicine in Springfield, Illinois. At SIU he was instrumental in establishing a PBL track modeled after the Problem-Based Curriculum at McMaster. Under his direction, SIU became a center for the development of PBL teaching materials and faculty training. He played an instrumental role in creating the journal \"Teaching and Learning in Medicine\" and served as an associate editor for many years. He also established the Problem-Based Learning Institute in conjunction with the local public school district to promote the use of PBL in secondary education. After his retirement in 1999, Barrows and his wife Phyllis returned to Hamilton, Ontario.\n\nOver his long and productive career, Barrows was to receive a number of awards. He was the first recipient of the John P. Hubbard Award from the National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) in 1984 and was later to receive the Abraham Flexner award from the American Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC).\n\nEarly in his career, Barrows conducted basic research on clinical reasoning processes. When he joined the Faculty of Medicine at McMaster, the undergraduate curriculum was just in the process of being designed. Barrows argued that the teaching of medicine should be organized in a way that emulates the reasoning of a skilled practitioner. Rather than presenting information to students in a decontextualized, discipline-based way, Barrows proposed that students should be allowed to engage new information in the context of solving authentic clinical problems. In the course of exploring a problem, students in a PBL curriculum identify deficiencies in their understanding and identify their own resources for redressing these deficiencies. This is thought to foster skills for lifelong learning.\n\nTraditionally, the assessment of student learning in medical education has relied almost entirely on written exams. But there would seem to be more to being a competent practitioner than could ever be assessed using a paper and pencil test. Barrows' pioneering work on training actors to serve as simulated patients opened the door to a new way of evaluating clinical skills. Simulated patients could be used to test the students' interactional and problem-solving skills. This kind of \"performance-based\" assessment has now been incorporated into national licensure exams for all U.S. medical students.\n\n"}
{"id": "22318852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22318852", "title": "International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing", "text": "International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing\n\nICASSP, the International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, is an annual flagship conference organized of IEEE Signal Processing Society. All papers included in its proceedings have been indexed by Ei Compendex.\n\nThe first ICASSP was held in 1976 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania based on the success of a conference in Massachusetts four years earlier that had focused specifically on speech signals.\n\nAs ranked by Google Scholar's h-index metric in 2016, ICASSP has the highest h-index of any conference in Signal Processing field.\n\nAlso, It is considered a high level conference in signal processing and, for example, obtained an 'A1' rating from the Brazilian ministry of education based on its H-index.\n"}
{"id": "5520530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5520530", "title": "International Literacy Association", "text": "International Literacy Association\n\nThe International Literacy Association (ILA), formerly the International Reading Association (IRA), is an international professional organization that was created in 1956 to improve reading instruction, facilitate dialogue about research on reading, and encourage the habit of reading.\n\nThe organization, whose headquarters are in Newark, Delaware, United States, has approximately 300,000 members from 84 countries , and more than 1,250 councils and affiliates, worldwide. Membership fees range from 24 to 39 dollars, plus fees for journal subscriptions. Discounted subscription rates are available for residents of developing economies. The current ILA President is Professor Douglas Fisher. He was as Vice President of the ILA Board of Directors between 2016 and 2017. \n\nIn addition to newsletters, books, e-books, webinars, and guides, the organization publishes three professional journals:\n\n\"Reading Online\", an e-journal, sponsored by the organization, was retired in 2005.\n\nThe International Reading Association has over 40 special interest groups for members.\n\nILA offers a number of awards and grants for educators, researchers, and authors.\n\nThe ILA has been recognized by the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) since 1978; the ILA was reclassified to have Consultative Status with UNESCO in 1996 and continues to hold this status.\n\nThe International Literacy Association hosts an annual conference.\n"}
{"id": "44107429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44107429", "title": "Korean Federation of Teachers' Associations", "text": "Korean Federation of Teachers' Associations\n\nThe Korean Federation of Teachers' Associations (KFTA, ) is the largest and most traditional professional organization and teachers' union in South Korea, with more than 170,000 members. It means 40% of the Korean educators are KFTA's members. The KFTA member is composed of school teachers, college professors, and perspective teachers. \nThe organization was first launched in 1947 as the Chosun Education Association one year before the establishment of the Korean government. Ever since then, the organization's main objectives are to accomplish quality public education and teacher's professionalism.\n\nThe KFTA has 17 metropolitan and provincial federations of teachers' associations, and 26 functional and affiliated organizations.\nAhn Yang-ok is the KFTA's current president. (35th president)\n\n1947: Established ‘The Chosun Education Association’ (Currently, ‘the Korean Federation of Teachers' Associations’)\n1948: ‘The Chosun Education Association’ renamed as ‘the Korean Education Association’, published Educational special publication 『New Education』 and 『Vacation Life』 \n1949: Published Special magazine for elementary education 『New Class』 )\n1952: Initiated ‘National Education Research Competition’, joined in WCOTP(World Confederation of Organization of the Teaching Profession) as founding member) \n1953: Established ‘The Central Education Research Institute’, started ‘Commendation Ceremony for Meritorious Teachers’ and ‘Education Week’ \n1958: Established ‘Professional Ethics for Teachers’ \n1959: Created ‘KFTA Principles’ \n1961: Founded『Saehan Education Weekly』 (Currently, 『The Korea Education Weekly』) \n1966: Held The 15th WCOTP World Conference )\n1969: Built ‘Manufacturing Facilities for Teaching Aids’, launched ‘Saehan Scholarship Foundation’ (Currently, ‘KFTA Scholarship Foundation’) \n1970: Initiated ‘National Education Materials Exhibition’ \n1971: Established ‘Korean Teachers' Mutual Fund’ \n1982: Created and Declared ‘Professional Ethics’ and ‘Principles for Teachers’ \n1989: Built New KFTA building (at Woomyon-dong), ‘The Korean Education Association’ renamed ‘the Korean Federation of Teachers' Associations’, adopted ‘KFTA Principles’ \n1991: Circulation of 『The Korea Education Weekly』 reached 300,000 \n1993: Joined EI(Education International) as a founding member \n1994: Founded ‘Teacher Training Center’ \n2003: Introduced Direct election for KFTA president, founded ‘Online Teacher Training Center’, established ‘Korea Institute for Educational Policy’ \n2004: Launched Online newspaper ‘Hangyo.Com’ \n2005: Declared ‘Professional Ethics for Teachers’ \n2007: Established ‘Quality Education Quality Policy Forum’ \n2009: Held ASEAN-Korea Education Leaders' Forum \n2010: Declaration of ‘Dokdo Day’ \n2011: Launch of 5-day School Week, Legislation of the Master Teacher System \n2012: Launch of Initiative to Promote the Correct Use of Language in Schools, Establishment of National Alliance for Character Education and launch of society-wide character education movement, Launch of the first non-governmental ‘KFTA Education Training Institute’ \n2013: Foundation of ‘New Education Reform Forum’ \n2014: Declared Charter of KFTA\n\nSolidarity Reinforcement \nCollective Bargaining with the Government \nProtection of Teachers' Prestige and Authority \nResearch and Development on Educational Policy \nSupportive Programs for Teachers' Professionalism \nInternational Exchanges \nEnhancement of Welfare for Members \nPublications \n\n1951: Reorganization of school system \n1952: Realization of educational autonomy system by city county \n1953: Enactment of 「Act on Public Educational Officials」\n1954: Enactment of 「Regulation on Remuneration for Public educational Officials」\n1964: Realization of educational autonomy system by metropolitan province \n1968: Change of the written exam for middle school examination to a lottery system \n1973: Shortening of promotion period for teachers and abolishment of limit for teacher's salary system / Enactment of 「Pension for Private School Teachers and Staff Act」\n1980: Creation of teaching profession allowance \n1981: Enactment of 「Act on Educational Tax」\n1982: Re-establishment of ‘Teachers' Day’, arrangement of a single salary system for elementary and secondary school teachers \n1984: Creation of the seniority allowance for teachers \n1991: Enactment of 「Special Act for Improvement of Teacher's Status」\n1992: Establishment of 「Rules on Negotiation and Consultation for Improvement of Teachers' Status」 / The 1st collective bargaining of KFTA and Education Ministry \n1995: Fulfillment of 5% of GDP as education budget \n1998: National rally against lowering of retirement age, Donation campaign for child hunger, Collective insurance for KFTA members \n2003: Prevention of change of teachers' status into local education officials \n2004: Enactment of 「Infant Education Act」\n2006: Enactment of 「Act on Preventing and Compensating School Safety Accident」\n2008: Opposition to change the title of Ministry(\"Ministry of the Talented and Science\" to \"Ministry of Education, Science and Technology\"), Realization of supreme court's decision on copyright of school examination \n2009: KFTA․ Korean Council for University Education․Ministry of Education, Science and Technology․National Superintendent Council, ‘Joint Declaration for Boosting Public Education’ \n2011: Enactment of Master Teachers' System / Management of ‘One School-One Legal Advisor System’ / Introduction to liability reparation mutual aid fund to the safe school \n2012: Execution of the five-day school week / Establishment of a doctoral program in National Universities of Education \n2013: Middle-school teachers' research allowances solved / Submission of bill for Teachers' Authority Protection into the National Assembly / Established and Began operating the Committee for School Teachers' Authority Protection\n\n"}
{"id": "50574702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50574702", "title": "Leibniz Institute for Science and Mathematics Education at the University of Kiel", "text": "Leibniz Institute for Science and Mathematics Education at the University of Kiel\n\nThe Leibniz Institute for Science and Mathematics Education at the University of Kiel (IPN) is a scientific institute in the field of Education Research as well as the Didactic method of Natural science in Germany. It is a member of the Leibniz Association and located in Kiel, Germany. Although it is not part of the University of Kiel, the two maintain a strong relationship.\n\nThe institute was founded in 1966 by physicist Karl Hecht (with participation of Werner Krobel), who remained director until 1970.\n\nIts main purpose is to promote the development of educational research in the field of Natural Science. Among other studies the institute carried out the Programme for International Student Assessment 2003 and 2006, SINUS, ChiK, LeLa, LLL, LUV, System Earth as well as the GLOBE Program.\n\nThe IPN is engaged in various German Science Olympiades (Biology, Chemistry, Physics), the (BUW) and the German preliminaries of the International Junior Science Olympiad.\n\nThe institute has about 150 employees and is structured into five departments:\n\n\nas well as the department of paedagogical and psychological methods (part of the department for educational research).\n"}
{"id": "293124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293124", "title": "List of admission tests to colleges and universities", "text": "List of admission tests to colleges and universities\n\nThis is a list of standardized tests that students may need to take for admissions to various Tests of language proficiency are excluded here.\n\nOnly tests not included within a certain secondary schooling curriculum are listed. Thus, those tests initially focused on secondary–school–leaving, e.g., GCE A–Levels in the UK, or French Baccalaureate, are not listed here, although they function as the de facto admission tests in those countries (see list of secondary school leaving certificates).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAdmission processes differs in institutes. For secondary school students applying for degree–level programmes provided by the University Grants Committee (UGC)–funded institutes, they can only apply through the Joint University Programmes Admissions System (JUPAS), which uses Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE) and Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE) as benchmark agency until academic year 2011/12, and Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) since 2011/12.\n\nJUPAS is not used in most non–UGC/non–degree level programmes, even these institutes still uses the examination results that JUPAS uses as benchmark agency.\n\n\nFrom 2016 all students who would like to apply for a university in Hungary have to prove their language skills. They are required to pass a nationally accredited language exam at B2 CEFR level.\n\nAdmission procedures and entry tests vary widely across states and universities/institutes. Usually, admission to a university in a state is based upon the performance of the candidates in the statewide Higher Secondary examinations. These are usually given after completion of the twelfth standard/grade, for example the HSC examinations of Maharashtra. Some states also have special entrance examinations for entry into engineering and medical programs, for example the Common Entrance Test in Karnataka, or the Common Entrance Test in Delhi. Admission into federally established institutes like the Central Universities, the IITs, and the NITs is usually based on a combination of performance in nationwide exams such as the JEE–MAINS and the state–level Higher Secondary examinations. Admission into federally established institutes like the NISER and the CBS is based on performance in the nationwide exam – the NEST. Admission to the National Law Universities is based on a national level entry examination conducted annually by the CLAT.\n\n\nWest Bengal\n\n\nBihar\nBCECE Board is the only institute of its kind in the Country that care about proxy students. At the examination centre candidates have to proceed through three thorough steps to avoid proxy.\n\nMadhya Pradesh\nBoard is the only institute of its kind in the Country that organizes competitive tests all over India for entrance to various professional courses every year on a very large scale.\n\nChhattisgarh\n\nRajasthan\n\nGujarat\n\nAndhra Pradesh\n\nAssam\n\nDelhi\nAlthough from 2010, the CEE has been cancelled and instead both of the above listed institutes will conduct counselling and admissions via the score in AIEEE exam.\n\nKarnataka\n\nKerala\n\nMaharashtra\n\nOdisha\n\nUttar Pradesh\n\nTamil Nadu\n\nSingle Entrance Examination for Medical Entrance\n\nThe Medical Council of India has determined that there will be only one common entrance test each for over 30,000 MBBS seats and over 11,000 MD seats in all government and medical colleges in the country. Earlier (until this year), students wanting to take up courses in medicine had to appear in at least five to six MBBS and MD entrance tests for various colleges and worry about problems like clash of exam dates as well as travel to distant places for counselling for allotment of seats. A new notification has come that from 2017 there will be a single entrance exam for medical colleges in India NEET.\n\nState–Level\n\nConducted Jointly by Some Universities\n\nBy Universities\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEach University in Mexico has its own admission procedures, . Some of them might use the EXANI–I from Centro Nacional de Evaluación para la Educación Superior \"CENEVAL\" (National Center for Higher Education Assessment). Many also utilize the Prueba de Aptitud Académica offered by the College Board Puerto Rico y America Latina. However, due to the autonomous nature of most universities in Mexico, many universities utilize admissions tests that they develop themselves.\n\n\nCommon Management Admission Test (CMAT) a standardized test taken by colleges to take admissions for BBA and BBM.\n\n\n\nIt is conducted by the National Testing Service.\nIt is conducted by the University of Health Sciences Lahore.\nIt is conducted by the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore.\nIt is conducted by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan.\n\nUniversities and other institutions of higher education formerly ran their own entrance exams. Since the introduction of the \"new \"matura\"\" in 2005, and in particular the marking of that exam by independent examiners rather than by teachers at students' own schools, the \"matura\" now serves as the admission test for Polish students. See Polish matura.\n\n\n\n\nIn Sri Lanka, A Level is offered by governmental and nongovernmental schools. The qualifications are awarded upon successful completion of examinations called Local A Levels while most of the private schools award them upon London A Levels. Local GCE Advanced Level qualification is offered by the Department of Examinations. Passing A Levels is the major requirement for applying local universities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMost applicants to universities in the UK take national examinations such as A-levels or Scottish Highers. Separate admissions tests are used by a small number of universities for specific subjects (particularly Law, Mathematics and Medicine, and courses at Oxford and Cambridge), many of these administered by Cambridge University's Admissions Testing Service.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHowever, no admission test is required for PhD studies.\n\n\n\n\n\nEach University in Mexico has its own admission procedures. Usually the exam by itself and an English Aptitude Test as requirements for acceptance.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47022683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47022683", "title": "List of libraries in Hamburg", "text": "List of libraries in Hamburg\n\nList of libraries and archives in Hamburg.\n\nIn 2006, 39 public libraries existed in Hamburg, organised by the foundation \"Bücherhallen Hamburg\", more than 20 academic libraries, and several special or museums libraries. 7.9 media per inhabitant were borrowed from the public libraries. Therefore, Hamburg, after Bremen (9.0), were ranking at the top of the German states.\n\nThere are also four main archives.\n\n"}
{"id": "3624330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3624330", "title": "Medical resident work hours", "text": "Medical resident work hours\n\nMedical resident work hours refers to the (often lengthy) shifts worked by medical interns and residents during their medical residency.\n\nAs per ACGME residents are allowed to work a max of 80hours a week. so typically residents will work 40-80 hours a week depends on speciality and rotation within the speciality , with residents occasionally logging 136 (out of 168) hours in a week. Some studies show that about 40% of this work is not direct patient care, but ancillary care, such as paperwork. Trainee doctors are often not paid on an hourly basis, but on a fixed salary; in some locations, they are paid for booked overtime. Limits on working hours have led to misreporting, where the resident works more hours than they record.\n\nMedical resident work hours have become a hot topic of discussion due to the potential negative results of sleep deprivation on both residents and their patients. According to a study of 4510 obstetric-gynecologic residents, 71.3% reported sleeping less than 3 hours while on night call. In a survey of 3604 first- and second-year residents, 20% reported sleeping an average of 5 hours or less per night, and 66% averaged 6 hours or less per night.\n\nMedical residencies usually require lengthy hours of trainees. Trainees are traditionally required to be present for set shifts, with the ending time of the shift dependent on momentary circumstances. The flexibility of this system makes it easy to abuse.\n\nJunior doctors often lack bargaining power and have difficulty changing employers. This leaves them with little say over their working conditions. Critics of long residency hours note that resident physicians in the US have no alternatives to the position that they are matched to, meaning residents must accept all conditions of employment, including very long work hours, and that they must also, in many cases, contend with poor supervision. This process, they contend, reduces the competitive pressures on hospitals, resulting in low salaries and long, unsafe work hours. The Match program has also been accused of deliberately limiting the available residency posts, thus reducing the demand for residents, despite the work for much larger numbers of residents being available.\n\nIn emergencies and in chronically understaffed health systems, all staff, including junior doctors, may be overworked. In some cases, excess work may be disproportionately assigned to junior doctors.\n\nThere are financial incentives for overworking junior doctors. Since the least-experienced staff are usually paid less, it is cheaper to assign paid overtime to them. Deliberate understaffing and paid or unpaid overtime for junior doctors is thus used to reduce costs for medical facilities, although this may also reduce quality of care, which can be expensive.\n\nThe medical culture has also been blamed. \"Generation-bashing\", where senior doctors look down on junior doctors who work fewer residency hours than they did, can push junior doctors to overwork. A desire for formal recognition, such as promotion, may also be important. A higher \"entry barrier\", with work conditions poor enough to burn out some residents, may be actively desired.\n\nThere is also a belief that long hours do, or can, improve training. The ability to follow a patient from admission through the next 30 or 40 hours may be valued more than observing several patients for shorter periods.\n\nThe desire to continue caring for a patient frequently leads doctors to work for longer than is permitted.\n\nThe evidence for harm to people who are deprived of sleep, or work irregular hours, is robust.\n\nResearch from Europe and the United States on nonstandard work hours and sleep deprivation found that late-hour workers are subject to higher risks of gastrointestinal disorders, cardiovascular disease, breast cancer, miscarriage, preterm birth, and low birth weight of their newborns. It has also been shown that slow-wave sleep assists in clearing out toxins that build up during the day. Consequently, the disruption of slow-wave sleep increases the level of amyloid-beta, a protein aggregate commonly found in Alzheimer's, present in cerebrospinal fluid the following morning. Chronic sleep deprivation and the resulting fatigue and stress can affect job productivity and the incidence of workplace accidents. There are also social effects. Married fathers in the United States who work fixed night shifts are 6 times more likely than their counterparts who work days to face divorce; for married mothers, fixed nights increase the odds by a factor of 3.\n\nThe public and the medical education establishment recognize that long hours can be counter-productive, since sleep deprivation increases rates of medical errors and affect attention and working memory. Chronically sleep-deprived people also tend to strongly underestimate their degree of impairment. A study found that after 24 hours of sustained wakefulness, hand-eye coordination decreased to a level equal to the performance observed at a blood alcohol concentration of roughly 0.10%. In a meta-analysis of 959 physicians, staying awake for a continuous 24 to 30 hours decreased physicians' overall performance by nearly 1 standard deviation and clinical performance by more than 1.5 standard deviations.\n\nSchedule details matter. Competence is affected by the number of work hours, number of continuous work hours, regularity of sleep, and frequency and speed of handovers to the next shift. \"Night float\" seems to have particularly bad effects, due to the circadian misalignment cause by abrupt switches between day and night shifts, but is the most commonly used method of adapting to duty hour restrictions\n\nMany studies have found performance impairment in medical residents due to sleep deprivation. The average sleep time was less for the same emergency department residents working night shifts than when working day shifts, and they took longer to intubate a mannequin and made more errors in a triage simulation when working on the night shift than the day shift. First year medical residents given an EKG arrhythmia-detection task performed significantly worse while sleep-deprived than when well-rested. Medical residents were also found to take more time and make more errors on laparoscopic procedures after one night on call.\n\nA 2004 landmark study found reducing sleep deprivation substantially reduced errors in intensive care units. The study redesigned first-year junior doctors' schedules to minimize the effects of sleep deprivation, circadian disruption, and handover problems, assigning four shifts where there had been three and allowing an hour's overlap for handovers at the ends of shifts. Each junior doctor was closely observed under both schedules. Errors were recorded (and corrected); they were then rated for severity by other doctors blinded to which treatment the errors had occurred under. Doctors and observers inevitably knew that they were part of a study.\n\nIn 2015 two controlled studies of the effect of the ACGME-mandated maximum shift began, involving nearly 190 hospitals and residency training programs. The studies randomly assigned medical residents to shifts longer than specified by the ACGME regulations. A study led by the University of Pennsylvania, which will end in 2019, assigned residents in 32 medical training programs to shifts as long as 30 hours. It used 31 other programs as a control group. Despite the longer shifts, the other overall rules were still adhered to. The other study, led by Northwestern University and ending in 2015, was similar in design. Both were conducted with the approval of the ACGME. In neither study were residents and patients necessarily told they were part of a human subjects experiment and informed consent was not required, which caused some controversy.\n\nRegulatory duty hour restrictions, in theory, should reduce the number of duty hours worked. In practice, they may not because of problems. Studies to evaluate the effects of duty hour restrictions on patient outcomes have been somewhat mixed.\n\nMany of the studies rely on self-reported hours, self-reported errors, and self-reported sleep deprivation, with large opportunities for bias. More objective measures, such as tracking, perceptual tests, and blood hormone levels, are generally not used. Measurements of patient deaths and harm are often used as response variables. Many of the studies that have been done on this topic are specialty specific and so cannot be generalized to all medical residency programs.\n\nThe 2003 working-hour restrictions imposed in the US by the ACGME allowed many studies comparing patient outcomes before and after the reforms. They generally show little effect. This corresponds to the impressions of medical staff.\n\nOne 2014 systematic review of 135 studies spanning 1980 to 2013 showed no overall improvement in patient safety but still indicated that duty hour restrictions have increased morbidity in some cases.\n\nAnother systematic review of 27 studies conducted in 2015 found similar results, and a 2007 study of over 8 million hospital admissions of Medicare beneficiaries that compared mortality rate before and after implementation of the ACGME standards showed no difference in mortality.\n\nOne study of 318,636 patients done in a Veterans Administration setting showed that work hour restrictions reduced mortality substantially for a similar set of diagnoses.\n\nAnother study found that the 2003 ACGME reform restrictions were associated with a small reduction in the relative risk for death in 1,268,738 non-surgical patients drawn from a national survey of hospitals.\n\nWhen surveyed about duty hour restrictions, both medical and surgical residents, as well as residency faculty perceive that patient safety hasn't changed or has suffered as a result. Additionally, many residents note an increase in self-reported errors.\n\nThere are a number of possible explanations for these results. See Problems with duty hour restrictions.\n\nIt is largely felt that actual duty hours (opposed to reported duty hours) have not changed substantially: prior to the implementation of work hour regulations, residents were already working an average of 82 hours per week. Many studies rely on self-reported hours, but significant bias to under-report duty hours exists for a few important reasons: One is that statutes do not provide whistleblower protections to residents who report work hour violations. Second, the penalty for work hour violation is loss of accreditation, which would adversely affect medical residents and prevent them from becoming board certified. Finally, some residents may be pressured by their residency programs to underreport hours or even punished if they do not.\n\nMoreover, these studies – particularly the ones that find favorable results - may fail to account for confounders that positively impact outcomes, including the wide adoption of electronic medical records, a shift toward team-based care, and implementation of best practices.\n\nDuty hour regulations may not address the root causes of medical errors, and may inadvertently create new problems that impact patient outcomes. In order to adhere to duty-hour standards, residents must handoff their patients to other residents more frequently, which can lead to miscommunication, interrupted continuity of care and increased errors. Also, most studies show that residents see more patients now, despite having less time, leading to more administrative work and less time for direct patient care and education. One systematic review found that resident learning has been unfavorably impacted by duty hour regulations, and because medical education affects knowledge and competence, this may result in poor decision-making and medical errors.\n\nThe most commonly proposed method is regulation of working hours, but this is ineffective if regulations are ignored. Whistle-blower protection laws, protecting residents who report violations of working-hour regulations from losing their residencies and thus their route to professional accreditation, have been proposed.\n\nIncreasing the bargaining power of residents has been proposed, on the argument that they would then choose the best training programs. The 2002 \"Jung v. Association of American Medical Colleges\" anti-trust case sought more freedom for medical residents to negotiate working conditions. In order to obtain accreditation as doctors, American medical residents are required to enter into a contract to accept whatever residency position they are assigned; they are then matched to a job by the AAMC and told what the working conditions and pay are. The plaintiffs allege that this is an anti-competitive practice, and that the defendants artificially limit the number of resident positions available.\n\nWhere there is a shortage of doctors, proposed solutions include reducing the costs of medical training and more extensive training for nurses, who then take over duties formerly done by doctors. Improving the working conditions of doctors might also increase recruitment.\n\nJunior doctors in the European Union fall under the European Working Time Directive, which specifies:\n\n\nHowever, junior doctors may choose to work more than 48 hours a week, or opt out of the EWTD entirely by signing a waiver with the employer. They may not be punished for not working more than the directed hours. Many trainees nonetheless feel obliged to work longer hours. The rest times are mandatory, but may be taken at another time if it cannot be taken as scheduled.\n\nThe issue is politically controversial in the United States, where federal regulations did not limit the number of hours that can be assigned during a graduate medical student's medical residency. Starting in 2003, with revisions in 2011, regulations from the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education capped the work-week at 80 hours. As of 2018, shifts are capped (with limited exceptions) at a maximum of 24 consecutive hours for first, second, and third year residents. \n\nThe Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) has limited the number of work-hours to 80 hours weekly, overnight call frequency to no more than one in three, 30-hour maximum straight shifts, and at least 10 hours off between shifts. While these limits are voluntary, adherence has been mandated for accreditation.\n\nThe Institute of Medicine (IOM) built upon the recommendations of the ACGME in the December 2008 report \"Resident Duty Hours: Enhancing Sleep, Supervision and Safety\". While keeping the ACGME's recommendations of an 80-hour work week averaged over 4 weeks, the IOM report recommends that duty hours should not exceed 16 hours per shift for interns (PGY 1). The IOM also recommended strategic napping between the hours of 10pm and 8am for shifts lasting up to 30 hours. The ACGME officially recommended strategic napping between the hours of 10pm and 8am on 30 hour shifts for residents who are post graduate year 2 and above but did not make this a requirement for program compliance. The report also suggests residents be given variable off-duty periods between shifts, based on the timing and duration of the shift, to allow residents to catch up on sleep each day and make up for chronic sleep deprivation on days off.\n\nThough the ACGME regulations were intended to increase medical resident sleep hours and improve patient safety, they had also created unintended negative consequences in the education of new residents and the workplace learning culture. In 2017, the ACGME changed its regulations once again, citing a trial conducted from July 2014 to June 2015 in 117 general surgery residency programs. In the Flexibility in Duty Hour Requirements for Surgical Trainees (FIRST) trial, programs were randomly assigned to a group following current ACGME duty-hour restrictions or a group with more flexible policies that waived rules on maximum shift lengths and time off between shifts. When looking at primary outcomes of 30-day rate of postoperative death or serious complications, less-restrictive duty-hour policies were not associated with an increased rate of death or serious complications. Starting July 1, 2017, the ACGME raised the maximum number of consecutive hours a first year resident can work from 16 hours to 24 hours.\n\nDespite the sleep deprivation medical residents constantly experience due to long working hours, a minority of residents still wish to not have work hour regulations at all. In the survey of 4510 obstetric-gynecologic residents, about one in five opposed any limits on their work hours. These residents cited \"additional experience\" as the most common reason (69.0%), followed by \"opportunity to see rare cases\" (46.5%) and \"continuity with patients\" (31.8%).\n\nThe Libby Zion case, in which an 18-year-old college student died of a fatal drug interaction after being treated by a fatigued intern and resident in a New York hospital, led to the establishment of the Bell Commission in 1987 to address physician training hours. Its recommendations were adopted by the state of New York in 1989, and limited residents to no more than 24 consecutive hours in the hospital, and no more than 80 hours a week with an in-house supervising attending physician present at all times.\n\nThough other federal regulatory and legislative attempts to limit medical resident work hours have materialized, none have attained passage.\n\nDr. Richard Corlin, president of the American Medical Association, has called for re-evaluation of the residency training process, declaring \"We need to take a look again at the issue of why is the resident there.\"\n\nThe U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) rejected a petition seeking to restrict medical resident work hours, opting to rely on standards adopted by ACGME, a private trade association that represents and accredits residency programs. On July 1, 2003, the ACGME instituted duty hours requirements for all accredited residency programs, since revised in 2011.\n\nThe ACGME duty hour standards that went into effect in July 2003 require:\n\nFollowing the ACGME's proposed regulation of duty hours the American Osteopathic Association (AOA) followed suit. Below are the requirements adopted by the American Osteopathic association.\n\n\nAnother related issue regarding the imposition of maximum hour policies for medical residents is the question of enforcement, where some enforcement proposals have included extending U.S. federal whistle-blower protection to medical residents in order to ensure compliance and afford medical residents certain employment protection.\n\nThere are still inherent problems with the current ACGME policy. Resident duty hour restrictions are difficult to assess and enforce. Also, it is unclear who is ultimately responsible for monitoring duty hour adherence (i.e. state licensing boards, residency programs, attendings, residents, etc.). Additionally, a one-size-fits all solution may not be ideal, since the need for certain duty hours may vary among specialties.\n\nAlthough strategic napping is recommended by the ACGME, no studies have assessed the effect of napping as a fatigue mitigation technique. Requiring naps during long shifts could be a small step toward reducing fatigue and potentially decreasing errors. Resident surveys suggest that a greater emphasis on education, decreased workload, and more ancillary support would better improve patient outcomes. Focusing on hospital best practices and physician incentives like pay-for-performance in residency could help with the implementation of some of these solutions.\n\nTechniques to reduce circadian misalignment include avoiding abrupt changes in shift time, getting more sleep, which makes the sleep schedule more flexible, and the use of caffeine and ambient light of specific wavelengths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161599", "title": "Mutopia Project", "text": "Mutopia Project\n\nThe Mutopia Project is a volunteer-run effort to create a library of free content sheet music, in a way similar to Project Gutenberg's library of public domain books. It started in 2000.\n\nThe music is reproduced from old scores that are in the public domain. New scores are digitally typeset with GNU LilyPond and distributed in the following formats:\n\nCurrently, there are more than 2,000 pieces of music available, more than half of which are pieces for piano. There are also many pieces for voice, and various other musical instruments. The Mutopia Project home page has a list of links to the most recently added pieces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29077332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29077332", "title": "National Education Radio", "text": "National Education Radio\n\nThe National Education Radio (NER; ) is a government owned radio station in the Taiwan (ROC) and is located in the Zhongzheng District of Taipei City, Taiwan next to the Taipei Botanical Garden and National Museum of History.\n\nThe radio station was founded on 29 March 1960. The Headquarters building has been a registered historic landmark since 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50627287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50627287", "title": "Niwot Ridge", "text": "Niwot Ridge\n\nNiwot Ridge is an alpine ecology research station located 65 km north-west of Denver in north-central Colorado. It is on the Front Range of the southern Rocky Mountains and lies within the Roosevelt National Forest.\n\nNiwot Ridge was designated a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve in 1979 and was one of 17 reserves in the United States withdrawn from the programme in June 2017. The Niwot Ridge Long-Term Ecological Research Site was established in 1980 as a United States Forest Service experimental ecology reserve.\n\nThe site is characterized by \"extensive alpine tundra, a variety of glacial landforms, glacial lakes and moraines, cirques and talus slopes, patterned ground, and permafrost\", and is home to Arikaree Glacier. Habitats include western spruce-fir forest, lodgepole pine (\"Pinus contorta\") subalpine forest, alpine meadows as well as ponderosa pine (\"Pinus ponderosa\") shrubland. The site is little influenced by human impact and is thus an excellent site to monitor biological, chemical, and physical responses to changes in atmospheric chemistry and climate. The site is administered cooperatively by the U.S. Forest Service and the University of Colorado Boulder's Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research (INSTAAR) for experimental and long-term studies of alpine tundra.\n\nA mountain research station facilitates research from atmospheric chemistry to alpine and sub-alpine ecology. Niwot Ridge is one of the National Science Foundation's Long Term Ecological Research Network (LTER) sites, and has been used by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for atmospheric trace gas sampling since 1968. The eddy covariance dataset at Niwot Ridge is among the longest for forest sites, and has been used study the role of subalpine forests in cycles of water, carbon, nutrients, and energy.\n\nToday, the substantial increases in nitrogen deposits during the past three decades are one of the major concerns since they may alter biological processes in alpine tundra and surrounding catchment areas. Educational programmes in the biosphere reserve focus primarily on the university level, but also include high schools and the general public.\n"}
{"id": "7657245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7657245", "title": "Open admissions", "text": "Open admissions\n\nOpen admissions, or open enrollment, is a type of unselective and noncompetitive college admissions process in the United States in which the only criterion for entrance is a high school diploma or a General Educational Development (GED) certificate.\n\nThis form of \"inclusive\" admissions is used by many public junior colleges and community colleges and differs from the selective admission policies of most private liberal arts colleges and research universities in the United States, which often take into account standardized test scores as well as other academic and character-related criteria.\n\nThe open admissions concept was heavily promoted in the 1960s and 1970s as a way to reduce discrimination in college admissions and to promote education of the underprivileged. The first major application was at the City University of New York (CUNY). It later applied the policy only to two-year community colleges since they are better prepared for remedial education.\n\nThe graduation rates of colleges are closely tied to their admissions policies. Six years after beginning a four-year program, an average of 60% of students nationwide will have graduated. However, that rate varies from 89% at colleges that accept less than a quarter of applicants to less than 36% at those with an open admissions policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "31682044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31682044", "title": "Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Fellowship Training", "text": "Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Fellowship Training\n\nAfter completion of an accredited residency program in Oral/Maxillofacial Surgery, surgeons can complete fellowships in multiple sub specialties. Fellowships are not limited to those with medical degrees. There are currently no board certifications for sub specialties under AAOMS/ADA. There are board certifications available under non-AAOMS/non-ADA boards. There are also AAOMS accredited and non-accredited fellowships by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA). http://www.aaoms.org/fellowship_opportunities.php\n\nDr. Larry M Wolford DMD - Dallas, TX\nDoug Sinn DDS - Mansfield, TX\nDr. Peter Waite, The University of Alabama - Birmingham, Alabama\nThe Oral Facial Surgery Institute - St John's Mercy Medical Center - St. Louis, Missouri\nStanford Hospital Oral Maxillofacial Surgery Instructorship - Stanford Hospital - Palo Alto, California\n\nJohn Peter Smith Hospital Maxillofacial Oncology and Reconstructive Surgery Fellowship - Fort Worth, Texas\nD David Kim, DMD, MD, FACS, LSU Shreveport Head & Neck Oncologic/Microvascular Reconstructive Surgery - Shreveport, LA\nHead and Neck Oncologic Surgery Fellowship at Legacy Emanuel Hospital - Portland, Oregon\nUniversity of Michigan Oncology Fellowship - Ann Arbor, Michigan\nUniversity of Tennessee at Knoxville Oncology Fellowship - Knoxville, Tennessee\nUniversity of Maryland Oncology and Microvascular Reconstruction Fellowship - Baltimore, Maryland\nUniversity of Florida Oncology and Microvascular Reconstruction Fellowship - Jacksonville, FL\n\nTufts University 1 Year Fellowship - Boston, MA\n\nLoma Linda University 2 Year Professional Achievement in Implantology - Loma Linda, CA\n\nRutgers University 1 Year Surgical Fellowship - Newark, NJ\n\nSouthern Illinois University Restorative and Surgical Fellowship - Edwardsville, IL\n\nHarvard University 2 Year Surgical Fellowship - Boston, MA\n\nLoma Linda University 1 Year Surgical Fellowship - Loma Linda, CA\n\nIndiana University Surgical and Restorative Fellowship - Indianapolis, IN\n\nUCLA 1 Year Surgical Fellowship - Los Angeles, CA\n\nAssociation of oral & Maxillofacial surgeons of india\n\nhttp://www.ofscms.com/fellowship/index.asp Oral and Facial Surgical Center with Dr. John E Griffin Jr. (AAOMS certified)\nAmerican Academy of Cosmetic Surgery Fellowship Training Programs\nMaxillofacial and Facial Aesthetic Surgery - T. William Evans - Columbus, OH\n\nG.E. Ghali, DDS, MD, FACS, LSU Shreveport Cleft & Craniofacial Surgery Fellowship - Shreveport, LA\nBernard J. Costello, DMD, MD, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania\nRamon L. Ruiz, DMD, MD Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children, Pediatric Craniomaxillofacial Surgery - Orlando, Florida\nThe Royal Children's Hospital of Melbourne - Melbourne, Australia\nDr. Kevin Smith, University of Oklahoma - Oklahoma City, OK\nFACES (First Appalachian Craniofacial Deformity Specialists) Cleft Center, West Virginia University - Charleston, WV\nFellowship in Pediatric Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard School of Medicine, Harvard School of Dental Medicine - Boston, MA\n\nAmerican Academy of Cosmetic Surgery Fellowship Training Programs\n\nRoyal Children's Hospital in Liverpool, England\nOxford Craniofacial Unit, Oxford, England\nBirmingham Children's Hospital, Birmingham Craniofacial Unit, England\nChang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taiwan\nFellowship in Oral Maxillofacial Oncology - San Francisco, CA\nManuel Gea Gonzalez Hosp, Mexico City, Mexico\nWilhelms University, Muenster, Germany\nJackson-Memorial, Miami, Fl\nJohn Hunter Hospital - Newcastle, Australia Director: Gary Hoffman, MBBS, BDS, PhD, FRACDS, FACS\nRoyal Prince Alfred Hospital - Sydney, Australia Director: Kerwin Shannon, MBBS, FRACS\nQueensland University - Brisbane, Australia Director: Barbara Woodhouse, MBBS, BDS, FRACDS (OMS), FADI, FICD \nJohn Radcliffe Hospital - Oxford, UK Director: Stephen Watt-Smith, MBBS, BDS, FRCS (OMFS) \nUniversity Hospital Aintree - Liverpool. UK Director: S. N. Rogers, MBChB, BDS, FRCS (OMFS)\nUniversity Hospital Birmingham - Birmingham, UK Director: Keith Webster, MBChB, BDS, FRCS (OMFS)\nAddenbrooke's Hospital - Cambridge, UK Director: David M Adlam, MBBS, BDS, FRCS (OMFS)\n"}
{"id": "384883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=384883", "title": "Ordinance (university)", "text": "Ordinance (university)\n\nIn a United Kingdom universities, an ordinance is detailed legislation that translates the broad principles of the university's charter and statutes.\n\nAll UK universities created before 1992 are established by Royal Charter. Under their charters, they are empowered to make statutes, but any changes to these require the approval of the Privy Council. However, the charter and statutes empower the university to create and modify ordinances. These constitute more detailed legislation that translates the broad principles enshrined in Charter and Statutes into practical effect. Typically any change to ordinances will require the agreement of the governing body of the university. Ordinances frequently require or allow the promulgation of regulations which can be approved by lesser bodies.\n\nBecause of their different history, Universities created since 1992 (the so-called \"New Universities\") have a different scheme of governance, and a different vocabulary to accompany it.\n\nSome university systems influenced by the UK model, particularly in the Commonwealth, use the word ordinance in the same way.\n"}
{"id": "47647187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47647187", "title": "Reproducibility Project", "text": "Reproducibility Project\n\nThe Reproducibility Project: Psychology was a collaboration of 270 contributing authors to repeat 100 published experimental and correlational psychological studies. This project was led by the Center for Open Science and its co-founder, Brian Nosek, who started the project in November 2011. The results of this collaboration were published in August 2015. Reproducibility is the ability to produce a copy or duplicate, in this case it is the ability to replicate the results of the original studies. The project has illustrated the growing problem of failed reproducibility in social science. This project has started a movement that has spread through the science world with the expanded testing of the reproducibility of published works.\n\nBrian Nosek of University of Virginia and colleagues sought out to replicate 100 different studies that all were published in 2008. The project pulled these studies from three different journals\", Psychological Science\", the \"Journal of Personality and Social Psychology\", and the \"\", published in 2008 to see if they could get the same results as the initial findings. In their initial publications 97 of these 100 studies claimed to have significant results. To stay as true as they could the group went through extensive measures to remain true to the original studies, to the extent of consulting the original authors. Even with all the extra steps taken to ensure the same conditions of the original 97 studies only 35 of the studies replicated (36.1%), and if they did replicate their effects were smaller than the initial studies effects. The authors emphasized that the findings reflect a problem that affects all of science not just psychology, and that there is room to improve reproducibility in psychology.\n\nFailure to replicate can be caused by a few different reasons. The first is a type II error, which is when you accept the null hypothesis when it is false. This can be classified as a false negative. A type I error is the rejection of a null hypothesis even if it is true, so this is considered a false positive.\n\nThe Center for Open Science was founded by Brian Nosek and Jeff Spies in 2013 with a $5.25 million grant from the Laura and John Arnold Foundation. They have built a team that today has about 50 individuals on it. The goal of the group is to help increase the openness, integrity and reproducibility of scientific research. The COS which is a rather small number of individuals oversee much larger groups that are helping with the COS's mission. The group is made up of multiple different kinds of scientists which include astronomers, biologists, chemists, computer scientists, education researchers, engineers, neuroscientists, and psychologists. By 2017 the Foundation had provided an additional $10 million in funding.\n\nThere have been multiple implications of the Reproducibility Project. People all over have started to question the legitimacy of scientific studies that have been published in esteemed journals. Journals typically only publish articles with big effect sizes that reject the null hypothesis. Leading into the huge issue of people re-doing studies that have already found to fail, but not knowing because there is no record of the failed studies, which will lead to more false positives to be published. It is unknown if any of the original study authors committed fraud in publishing their projects, but some of the authors of the original studies are part of the 270 contributors of this project.\n\nOne earlier study found that around $28 billion worth of research per year in medical fields is non-reproducible.\n"}
{"id": "900054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900054", "title": "Shere Hite", "text": "Shere Hite\n\nShere Hite (born November 2, 1942) is an American-born German sex educator and feminist. Her sexological work has focused primarily on female sexuality. Hite builds upon biological studies of sex by Masters and Johnson and by Alfred Kinsey. She also references theoretical, political and psychological works associated with the feminist movement of the 1970s, such as Anne Koedt's \"The Myth of the Vaginal Orgasm\". She renounced her United States citizenship in 1995 to become German.\n\nHite was born Shirley Diana Gregory in Saint Joseph, Missouri to Paul and Shirley Hurt Gregory. She later took the surname of her stepfather, Raymond Hite. She graduated from Seabreeze High School in Daytona Beach, Florida. After she received a masters degree in history from the University of Florida in 1967, she moved to New York City and enrolled at Columbia University to work toward her Ph.D. in social history. Hite says that the reason for her not completing this degree was the conservative nature of Columbia at that time. In the 1970s, she did part of her research while at the National Organization for Women. She appeared nude in \"Playboy\" while studying at Columbia University and also posed provocatively in a typewriter ad to earn money for her college fees. But when she read the ad's strapline, \"The typewriter is so smart she doesn't have to be,\" she joined a feminist protest against the very ad in which she had appeared.\n\nHite teaches at Nihon University (Tokyo, Japan), Chongqing University in China, and Maimonides University, North Miami Beach, Florida, USA.\n\nHite has focused on understanding how individuals regard sexual experience and the meaning it holds for them. Hite believed that the ease at which women orgasm during masturbation contradicted traditional stereotypes about female sexuality. Hite's work concluded that 70% of women do not have orgasms through in-out, thrusting intercourse but are able to achieve orgasm easily by masturbation or other direct clitoral stimulation. She, as well as Elisabeth Lloyd, have criticized Masters and Johnson for uncritically incorporating cultural attitudes on sexual behavior into their research; for example, the argument that enough clitoral stimulation to achieve orgasm should be provided by thrusting during intercourse, and the inference that the failure of this is a sign of female \"sexual dysfunction.\" While not denying that both Kinsey and Masters and Johnson have played a crucial role in sex research, Hite believes that society must understand the cultural and personal construction of sexual experience to make the research relevant to sexual behavior outside the laboratory. She offered that limiting test subjects to \"normal\" women who report orgasming during coitus was basing research on the faulty assumption that having an orgasm during coitus was typical, something that her own research strongly refuted.\n\nHite used an individualistic research method. Thousands of responses from anonymous questionnaires were used as a framework to develop a discourse on human responses to gender and sexuality. Her conclusions were met with methodological criticism. The fact that her data are not probability samples raises concerns about whether the sample data can be generalized to relevant populations. As is common with surveys concerning sensitive subjects such as sexual behavior, the proportion of nonresponse is typically large. Thus the conclusions derived from the data may not represent the views of the population under study because of sampling bias due to nonresponse. Hite supporters defend her methodology by saying that it is more likely to get to the truth of women's sexuality than studying women engaged in prostitution as if they were examples of women in general, or to study in laboratory conditions women who claim to orgasm during coitus .\n\nHite has been praised for her theoretical fruitfulness in sociological research. The suggestion of bias in some of Hite's studies is frequently used as a talking point in university courses where sampling methods are discussed, along with \"The Literary Digest\" poll of 1936. One discussion of sampling bias is by Philip Zimbardo, who explained that women in Hite's study were given a survey about marriage satisfaction, where 98% reported dissatisfaction, and 75% reported having had extra-marital affairs, but where only 4% of women given the survey responded. Zimbardo argued that the women who had dissatisfaction may have been more motivated to respond than women who were satisfied and that her research may just have been \"science-coded journalism.\" Some or all of her published surveys depended on wide multi-channel questionnaire distribution, opportunity for many long answers on a respondent's own schedule, enforced respondent anonymity, and response by mail rather than polling by telephone. Lohr argues that the distribution of questionnaires to women's organizations and the length of the questions and the allowance for long responses introduces a bias towards people who are not typical. She also argues that several of the questions are leading the respondent to reply in a particular way.\n\nHite has no children. In 1985, she married German concert pianist , who is 19 years her junior. The couple divorced in 1999.\nEspecially conservative groups in the US protested against Hite's provocative studies. She was exposed to harsh insults, physical assaults, and even murder threats. She accepted German nationality in 1996, since she regarded the German society as more tolerant and open-minded towards her work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5812937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5812937", "title": "Sidi Yahya Mosque", "text": "Sidi Yahya Mosque\n\nSidi Yahya is a mosque and madrassa of Timbuktu in Mali which finished construction in 1440. Sidi Yahya along with Djinguereber and Sankore compose the \"University\" of Timbuktu. Sidi Yahya's mausoleum was destroyed on 2 July 2012 following the Battle of Gao and Timbuktu. The sacred legend of this holy site states that the \"End of The World\" main gate of Sidi Yahya mosque would not be opened until the last day (of the world), or end times.\n\nSidi Yahya is named for its first imam and head professor Sidi Yahya (also called Sidi Yahya Tadelsi or Sidi Yahya Al Andulusi). The mosque is located south of the more famous Sankoré Mosque. Construction of the Sidi Yahya mosque was begun in 1400 by Sheikh El-Mokhtar Hamalla in expectation of a great holy person. It took 40 years to complete. In 1441 Mohamed Naddah, the city-governor of Timbuktu, appointed his close friend Sidi Yahya as its first imam. This marked the beginning of the mosque as a madrassa and a great center of learning for the region.\n\nThe Sidi Yahya mosque was restored in 1577 or 1578 by Cadi Al Akib. Its original shape was altered in 1939 to reduce its appearance as a military fortress. The original minaret, however, is still in place. Beneath it are the sepulchres of Sidi Yahya and Mohamed Naddah who are said to have died one week apart. The doors of the mosque were also repaired.\n\nSidi Yahya closely resembles the other famous mosques in Timbuktu (Sankore and Djinguereber). Key differences are it is not as tall and the doors are ornately made reflecting Moroccan influence. The mosque has three rows of pillars facing north-south. The main courtyard is located in the southern part of the city and towered over by the minaret. The courtyard was converted into a cemetery that is no longer in use. The imams of the school are buried in an underground area located to the north of the mosque. Evening and morning prayers are performed there. It also contains lodgings for the mosque’s guard. A smaller, external courtyard is used as reading space during the celebration of the birth of Prophet Muhammad. Compared to other mosques of Timbuktu, this one benefits from greater care and maintenance.\n\nIn the summer of 2012, members of Ansar Dine broke down the doors of the mosque, which according to legend were not to be opened until the end times. They claimed that the reverence for the site was idolatrous, but offered roughly $100 US dollars to repair the mosque.\n\n"}
{"id": "291126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291126", "title": "Smart mob", "text": "Smart mob\n\nA smart mob is a group whose coordination and communication abilities have been empowered by digital communication technologies. Smart mobs are particularly known for their ability to mobilize quickly.\n\nThe concept was introduced by Howard Rheingold in his book \"\". Rheingold defined the smart mob as follows: \"Smart mobs consist of people who are able to act in concert even if they don’t know each other... because they carry devices that possess both communication and computing capabilities\". In December of that year, the \"smart mob\" concept was highlighted in the \"New York Times\" \"Year in Ideas\".\n\nThese technologies that empower smart mobs include the Internet, computer-mediated communication such as Internet Relay Chat, and wireless devices like mobile phones and personal digital assistants. Methodologies like peer-to-peer networks and ubiquitous computing are also changing the ways in which people organize and share information.\n\nSmart mobs sometimes are manipulated by the dispatchers who control the 'mobbing system' (i.e., those who own the contact list and the means to forward instant messages to a group) and are induced to cause distress and aggravation to individuals who have been targeted or singled out for whatever reason.\n\nThere is a tendency to keep the dynamics of smart mobbing 'covert', and not to discuss such incidents on the internet.\n\nFlash mobs are a specific form of smart mob, originally describing a group of people who assemble suddenly in a public place, do something unusual and pointless for a brief period of time, then quickly disperse. The difference between flash and smart mobs is primarily with regards to their duration: flash mobs disappear quickly, but smart mobs can have a more enduring presence. The term \"flash mob\" is claimed to have been inspired by \"smart mob\".\n\nSmart mobs have begun to have an impact in current events, as mobile phones and text messages have empowered everyone from revolutionaries in Malaysia to individuals protesting the second Iraq War. Individuals who have divergent worldviews and methods have been able to coordinate short-term.\n\nA 2009 entry in the \"Encyclopedia of Computer Science and Technology\" noted that the term may be \"fading from public use\".\n\nA forerunner to the idea can be found in the work of anarchist thinker Kropotkin, \"fishermen, hunters, travelling merchants, builders, or settled craftsmen came together for a common pursuit.\"\n\nAccording to CNN, the first smart mobs were teenage \"thumb tribes\" in Tokyo and Helsinki who used text messaging on cell phones to organize impromptu raves or to stalk celebrities. For instance, in Tokyo, crowds of teenage fans would assemble seemingly spontaneously at subway stops where a rock musician was rumored to be headed.\n\nHowever, an even earlier example is the \"Dîner en blanc\" phenomenon, which has taken place annually in Paris, France, since 1988, for one night around the end of June. The invited guests wear only white clothes and gather at a chosen spot, knowledge of which they have only a short time beforehand. They bring along food, drink, chairs and a table and the whole group then gathers to have a meal, after which they disperse. The event has been held each year in different places in the centre of Paris. It is not a normal cultural event because it is not advertised and only those who have received an invite attend—information on the chosen location is transferred by text message or more recently Twitter. The number of people attending has grown, in 2011, to over 10,000. \"Dîner en blanc\" would be considered a smart mob rather than a flash mob, because the event lasts for several hours.\n\nThe Professional Contractors Group organised the first smart mob in the UK in 2000 when 700 contractors turned up at The House of Commons to lobby their MP following an email sent out a few days before. \n\nIn the days after the U.S. presidential election of 2000, online activist Zack Exley anonymously created a website that allowed people to suggest locations for gatherings to protest for a full recount of the votes in Florida. On the first Saturday after the election, more than 100 significant protests took place—many with thousands of participants—without any traditional organizing effort. Exley wrote in December 2000 that the self-organized protests \"demonstrated that a fundamental change is taking place in our national political life. It's not the Internet per se, but the emerging potential for any individual to communicate—for free and anonymously if necessary—with any other individual.\"\n\nIn the Philippines in 2001, a group of protesters organized via text messaging gathered at the EDSA Shrine, the site of the 1986 revolution that overthrew Ferdinand Marcos, to protest the corruption of President Joseph Estrada. The protest grew quickly, and Estrada was soon removed from office.\n\nThe Critical Mass bicycling events, dating back to 1992, are also sometimes compared to smart mobs, due to their self-organizing manner of assembly.\n\nEssentially, the smart mob is a practical implementation of collective intelligence. According to Rheingold, examples of smart mobs are the street protests organized by the anti-globalization movement. The Free State Project has been described in 'Foreign Policy' as an example of potential \"smart mob rule\". Other examples of smart mobs include:\n\n\nThe comic book \"Global Frequency\", written by Warren Ellis, describes a covert, non-governmental intelligence organization built around a smart mob of people that are called on to provide individual expertise in solving extraordinary crises.\n\nDavid Brin's speculative science fiction novel, \"Existence\" (), similarly posits the use of on-the-fly smart mobs by credible journalists as sources of information and expertise.\n\n"}
{"id": "2354870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2354870", "title": "Sudan University of Science and Technology", "text": "Sudan University of Science and Technology\n\nSudan University of Science and Technology (abbreviated SUST) is the largest public university in Sudan, with ten (10) campuses in the state of Khartoum. The main campus is located in Mogren area ( the confluence of the White White Nile and the Blue Blue Nile). SUST founded in 1902 as Khartoum Technical School and School of Commerce. \n\nThe school began as the Khartoum Technical School and School of Commerce in 1902. The School of Radiology (1932) and School of Arts (1946), are then merged to Khartoum Technical School and School of Commerce to form Khartoum Technical Institute (KTI) in 1950. then the Shambat Institute of Agriculture (1954), Khartoum Senior Trade School (1962), Institute of Music and Drama and the Higher Institute of Physical Education (1969) are merged with KTI and renamed as Khartoum Polytechnic Institute (KP) in 1975. KP is accredited in 1990 as Sudan University of Science and Technology.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSUST University Libraries are main part of each campus and has a collection of print and digital resources.\n\nSUST Libraries are managed by Deanship of Library Affair. The Libraries’ collection includes books, eBooks, print and electronic holdings of scholarly journal subscriptions, microforms, music recordings, and a sizable map collection and documentary department. SUST Libraries include 12 distinct facilities, including:\n\n\nSUST Repository\n\nIn 2011, according to \"Centro de Ciencias Humanas y Sociales\" from Madrid, the university ranked 4,220 in the world, second in Sudan. In 2013, according to 4icu.org, the school ranked first in Sudan and 59th in Africa.\n\n10 campuses located in Khartoum Khartoum the capital and largest city of Sudan. \n\nSUST is home to the only physical education college in Sudan. Therefore the university has some of the best sports facilities in the country. We are dedicated to providing an excellent sporting experience quality training environments and resources for the development, coaching and playing of sport. Many of these facilities are available to students, staff and members of the public.\nOur indoor and outdoor facilities include:\n<br>• Sports halls.\n<br>• Swimming pools.\n<br>• Grass pitches.\n<br>• Sand-dressed pitches.\n<br>• Climbing and bouldering wall.\n<br>• State-of-the-art fitness suites.\n<br>• Pavilions.\n<br>The university's main sports facilities are primarily located at the southern campus.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58156026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58156026", "title": "TRAILS", "text": "TRAILS\n\nThe Treasure State Academic Information & Library Services (TRAILS) is a statewide consortium of academic libraries including all 24 of Montana's public, private, tribal, community college, and university institutions. TRAILS services over 49,500 students, faculty, researchers, and community members and provides access to over 4,000,000 library items. The consortium is expected to provide a cost avoidance of seven million dollars over the next five years. TRAILS maximizes returns on resource investment, enhances teaching and research, improves user experience, and encourages shared expertise among members from institutions from across the state.\n\nIn May of 2014, Dr. Kenning Arlitsch, Dean of Montana State University Library and John Greer, Head of IT and Library System Administrator at University of Montana, presented a proposal of a unified content management system for Montana's academic libraries to the University's Board of Regents. The proposal passed with a 7-0 vote.That same year funding was requested from the Montana State Legislature to implement the proposal.The TRAILS consortium was formed in 2016 with the aim of increasing efficiency and improving access to resources for the students, researchers, and communities of Montana.It allows users to access many journals, databases, and other resources that may not be available had their institutions chosen not to participate in TRAILS.In addition to sharing resources and negotiating better prices for materials, it also includes the group purchase of a cloud-based library services platform which further increases efficiency and resource sharing allowing users to search all 17 libraries using the system simultaneously.In the future TRAILS hopes to initiate a statewide implementation of an open educational resources (OER) program such as free online textbooks.In 2017, the accrediting agency Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities lauded the MSU Library for its leadership in the TRAILS program.As a result of this and several other successful programs and initiatives the MSU Library was named 2018 Library of the Year by the Montana Library Association.The consortium is currently made up of 24 institutions from across the state.TRAILS includes all institutions in the Montana University System (MUS), the state's seven tribal colleges, and four private colleges. A Memorandum of Understanding was finalized by September 9, 2017 and Operating Procedures were approved on January 22, 2018. TRAILS is governed by the General Council which includes one representative from each institution. The officers include a Chair and a Secretary which each serve a two-year term. Ex officio, non-voting representatives include the TRAILS Coordinator and a representative selected by the Montana State Librarian. The coordinator since the consortium's inception has been Pamela Benjamin. As of June, 2018, TRAILS has five standing committees and five technology sub-committees.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44345009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44345009", "title": "Talua Theological Training Institute", "text": "Talua Theological Training Institute\n\nTalua Theological Training Institute, formerly known as Talua Ministry Training Centre, is a Bible College in Vanuatu, run by the Presbyterian Church of Vanuatu. It is located near Luganville on the island of Espiritu Santo.\n\nTalua was established in 1986 as an amalgamation of the Presbyterian Bible College on the island of Tangoa, and the Aulua Theological Training Centre on the island of Malekula. The name \"Talua\" comes from TAngoa and AuLUA.\n\nTalua offers a Diploma in Theology course accredited by the South Pacific Association of Theological Schools, as well as a Bachelor of Ministry degree accredited by the Asia Theological Association.\n\nIn 2001, the enrolment was 67 full-time students. The college is residential, with all staff and students living on campus. The current Principal is Pastor Philip Baniuri.\n"}
{"id": "21293406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21293406", "title": "Tashkent International School", "text": "Tashkent International School\n\nTashkent International School (TIS), an International Baccalaureate (IB) World School, is an independent, non-profit, coeducational day school from preschool through grade 12 located in Tashkent, the capital city of Uzbekistan in Central Asia. TIS was founded in 1994 to provide quality education in English for children of the diplomatic corps, international corporations and local families.\n\nTashkent International School was founded in 1994 with the help of the United Nations. The School is operated under the governance of a parent-elected eight-member School Board with an additional member appointed from the U.S. Embassy. TIS is accredited by the Council of International Schools and the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. TIS is also a member of the Central and Eastern European Schools Association and is an authorized IB World School.\n\nTashkent International School educates students to be internationally minded, think creatively, reason critically and communicate effectively.\n\nIn the 2016-2017 school year, TIS has 165 staff members including 61 full-time teachers, 5 part-time teachers, 2 intern teachers and 19 teaching assistants plus 6 full-time administrators. Of the total, 32 teachers are U.S. citizens, 19 teachers and 19 teaching assistants are host-country nationals, and 33 teachers originate from 15 other countries including the UK, Canada, New Zealand, India, Korea, Belgium, France and Poland.\n\nThe School offers the full IB curriculum: the Primary Years Program (PYP) for students in preschool through grade 5; the Middle Years Program (MYP) for students in grades 6 through 10; and the Diploma Program for grades 11 and 12. Instruction is in English and takes advantage of small class sizes and the diverse educational backgrounds of the students. Courses include English, mathematics, science, individuals and societies, physical and health education, performing and visual arts, design and foreign languages. English as a second language is also provided to grades 2 through 10. Russian is offered as a foreign language and to native speakers in grades 2 through 12. French is also offered in the secondary school. The School's programs and its graduates are recognized to meet the highest standards of international education.\n\nTIS is the only International Baccalaureate school in Uzbekistan.\n\nTIS offers a comprehensive after-school activities program for all students which supports the IB Diploma CAS program including Model United Nations, service learning, student council, yearbook, instrumental music training, academic games, bands/choir, art, and athletics such as soccer, basketball, volleyball, cross country and track and field.\n\nThere are many student councils: Student Council (for Elementary, Middle and High school), Catering Council, Co-Curricular Council and Digital Council. TIS is a full member of CEESA (Central and Eastern European Schools Association), a student activities and athletics conference. Students frequently travel to other CEESA schools to participate and compete in a variety of events.\n\nTIS is a founding member of the Central Asia Federation of Activities, Athletics and Art (CAFA), a regional conference including schools in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan. Students participate in the annual Central Asia Soccer Classic (CASC) and Central Asia Basketball Classic (CABC), hosted by CAFA member schools.\n\nThe TIS campus consists of a 3-story main building, a 3-story elementary building, an art and design building, a separate purpose-built facility for preschool, a gym, and a 2-story building for languages and counseling. Construction of an additional gym began October 2016 and will be complete June 2017. The campus is located on 13 wooded acres 10 minutes from the center of Tashkent. The facilities include 64 well-equipped classrooms, 17 offices, 2 libraries, 4 fully equipped science labs, a full-size gymnasium, an indoor theater, a multi-purpose room, prep rooms, 4 computer labs, 2 music rooms, and 3 art rooms. There are computers in the classrooms and libraries for student use, including 42 Macintosh computers plus a 1-to-1 iPad program for grades 4-8, a 1-to-1 laptop program for grades 9 and 10 and an additional 30 iPads for kindergarten to grade 3. The entire campus has high-speed wireless Internet. Sports facilities include basketball/volleyball courts, a large and small soccer field, field spaces for baseball/softball, as well as general recreation areas and wooded, landscaped grounds and an 18-hole disc golf course. The TIS campus is a closed campus, surrounded by a 3.5-meter wall with 24-hour security and full CCTV coverage of the grounds and gates.\n\n"}
{"id": "21396894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21396894", "title": "The Fairchild Challenge", "text": "The Fairchild Challenge\n\nThe Fairchild Challenge is an environmental education outreach program of Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden in Coral Gables, Florida, United States.\n\nThe Fairchild Challenge is promotes environmental awareness, scholarship and stewardship in students in grades pre-K through 12, and by extension in their families, schools and communities, through a combination of hands-on research, creativity and a variety of competitive projects.\n\nThe Fairchild Challenge is a multidisciplinary, environmental science competition designed to engage South Florida students of diverse interests, abilities, talents and backgrounds to explore the natural world. In 2014, the program was recognized by the American Public Gardens Association as a benchmark for exceptional STEM education and for empowering PreK-12th grade students to become the next generation of scientists, researchers, educated voters, policy makers, and environmentally-minded citizens.\n\nThe Fairchild Challenge is supported by numerous private and public sources, as well as fundraising by the Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden’s young professionals’ organization, The Fairchild Palms.\n\nThe Fairchild Challenge consists of three parallel programs for elementary, middle and high schools. Individual schools submit projects, called Challenges, which are aligned with state academic standards. In addition to the sciences, the projects cover social studies, English, art, music and vocational classes. Past challenge outcomes have included newsletters, opinion and research papers; artwork, postcards, environmental cartoons, posters and T-shirts; performing songs and skits on stage; creating and/or restoring gardens or designated habitats; conducting oral debates; preparing meals; designing solar-powered devices; and undertaking ecological initiatives such as recycling, conducting waste and energy audits, and initiating tree plantings at home, at school and in their communities. Submissions are reviewed by judges, who designate points based on scoring rubrics, and top-scoring schools are recognized with Fairchild Challenge Awards at annual ceremonies at Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden at the end of each school year.\n\nDuring the 2013-2014 school year, participants included 125,000 students from 272 K-12 schools. Since its founding in 2002, The Fairchild Challenge has spread beyond South Florida by conducting partner site trainings for dozens of museums, zoos, botanical gardens and other institutions throughout the United States of America as well as other countries. These institutions provide their own customized Fairchild Challenge programs for their area schools based on the original South Florida model.\n"}
{"id": "33820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33820", "title": "Wassily Kandinsky", "text": "Wassily Kandinsky\n\nWassily Wassilyevich Kandinsky () ( – 13 December 1944) was a Russian painter and art theorist.\n\nHe is credited with painting one of the first recognized purely abstract works. Born in Moscow, Kandinsky spent his childhood in Odessa, where he graduated at Grekov Odessa Art school. He enrolled at the University of Moscow, studying law and economics. Successful in his profession—he was offered a professorship (chair of Roman Law) at the University of Dorpat—Kandinsky began painting studies (life-drawing, sketching and anatomy) at the age of 30.\n\nIn 1896, Kandinsky settled in Munich, studying first at Anton Ažbe's private school and then at the Academy of Fine Arts. He returned to Moscow in 1914, after the outbreak of World War I. Following the Russian Revolution, Kandinsky \"became an insider in the cultural administration of Anatoly Lunacharsky\" and helped establish the Museum of the Culture of Painting. However, by then \"his spiritual outlook... was foreign to the argumentative materialism of Soviet society\", and opportunities beckoned in Germany, to which he returned in 1920. There, he taught at the Bauhaus school of art and architecture from 1922 until the Nazis closed it in 1933. He then moved to France, where he lived for the rest of his life, becoming a French citizen in 1939 and producing some of his most prominent art. He died in Neuilly-sur-Seine in 1944.\n\nKandinsky's creation of abstract work followed a long period of development and maturation of intense thought based on his artistic experiences. He called this devotion to inner beauty, fervor of spirit, and spiritual desire \"inner necessity\"; it was a central aspect of his art.\n\nKandinsky was born in Moscow, the son of Lidia Ticheeva and Vasily Silvestrovich Kandinsky, a tea merchant. One of his great grandmothers was a Princess Gantimurova, probably explaining the \"slight Mongolian trait in his features\". Kandinsky learned from a variety of sources while in Moscow. He studied many fields while in school, including law and economics. Later in life, he would recall being fascinated and stimulated by colour as a child. His fascination with colour symbolism and psychology continued as he grew. In 1889, he was part of an ethnographic research group which travelled to the Vologda region north of Moscow. In \"Looks on the Past\", he relates that the houses and churches were decorated with such shimmering colours that upon entering them, he felt that he was moving into a painting. This experience, and his study of the region's folk art (particularly the use of bright colours on a dark background), was reflected in much of his early work. A few years later he first likened painting to composing music in the manner for which he would become noted, writing, \"Colour is the keyboard, the eyes are the hammers, the soul is the piano with many strings. The artist is the hand which plays, touching one key or another, to cause vibrations in the soul\". Kandinsky was also the uncle of Russian-French philosopher Alexandre Kojève (1902-1968).\n\nIn 1896, at the age of 30, Kandinsky gave up a promising career teaching law and economics to enroll in the Munich Academy where his teachers would eventually include Franz von Stuck. He was not immediately granted admission, and began learning art on his own. That same year, before leaving Moscow, he saw an exhibit of paintings by Monet. He was particularly taken with the impressionistic style of \"Haystacks\"; this, to him, had a powerful sense of colour almost independent of the objects themselves. Later, he would write about this experience:\n\nKandinsky was similarly influenced during this period by Richard Wagner's \"Lohengrin\" which, he felt, pushed the limits of music and melody beyond standard lyricism. He was also spiritually influenced by Madame Blavatsky (1831–1891), the best-known exponent of theosophy. Theosophical theory postulates that creation is a geometrical progression, beginning with a single point. The creative aspect of the form is expressed by a descending series of circles, triangles and squares. Kandinsky's book \"Concerning the Spiritual In Art\" (1910) and \"Point and Line to Plane\" (1926) echoed this theosophical tenet. Illustrations by John Varley in \"Thought Forms\" (1901) influenced him visually.\n\nIn the summer of 1902, Kandinsky invited Gabriele Münter to join him at his summer painting classes just south of Munich in the Alps. She accepted, and their relationship became more personal than professional.\nArt school, usually considered difficult, was easy for Kandinsky. It was during this time that he began to emerge as an art theorist as well as a painter. The number of his existing paintings increased in the beginning of the 20th century; much remains of the landscapes and towns he painted, using broad swaths of colour and recognizable forms. For the most part, however, Kandinsky's paintings did not feature any human figures; an exception is \"Sunday, Old Russia\" (1904), in which Kandinsky recreates a highly colourful (and fanciful) view of peasants and nobles in front of the walls of a town. \"Riding Couple\" (1907) depicts a man on horseback, holding a woman with tenderness and care as they ride past a Russian town with luminous walls across a river. The horse is muted while the leaves in the trees, the town, and the reflections in the river glisten with spots of colour and brightness. This work demonstrates the influence of pointillism in the way the depth of field is collapsed into a flat, luminescent surface. Fauvism is also apparent in these early works. Colours are used to express Kandinsky's experience of subject matter, not to describe objective nature.\n\nPerhaps the most important of his paintings from the first decade of the 1900s was \"The Blue Rider\" (1903), which shows a small cloaked figure on a speeding horse rushing through a rocky meadow. The rider's cloak is medium blue, which casts a darker-blue shadow. In the foreground are more amorphous blue shadows, the counterparts of the fall trees in the background. The blue rider in the painting is prominent (but not clearly defined), and the horse has an unnatural gait (which Kandinsky must have known). Some art historians believe that a second figure (perhaps a child) is being held by the rider, although this may be another shadow from the solitary rider. This intentional disjunction, allowing viewers to participate in the creation of the artwork, became an increasingly conscious technique used by Kandinsky in subsequent years; it culminated in the abstract works of the 1911–1914 period. In \"The Blue Rider\", Kandinsky shows the rider more as a series of colours than in specific detail. This painting is not exceptional in that regard when compared with contemporary painters, but it shows the direction Kandinsky would take only a few years later.\n\nFrom 1906 to 1908 Kandinsky spent a great deal of time travelling across Europe (he was an associate of the Blue Rose symbolist group of Moscow), until he settled in the small Bavarian town of Murnau. In 1908 he bought a copy of \"Thought-Forms\" by Annie Besant and Charles Webster Leadbeater. In 1909 he joined the Theosophical Society. \"The Blue Mountain\" (1908–1909) was painted at this time, demonstrating his trend toward abstraction. A mountain of blue is flanked by two broad trees, one yellow and one red. A procession, with three riders and several others, crosses at the bottom. The faces, clothing, and saddles of the riders are each a single color, and neither they nor the walking figures display any real detail. The flat planes and the contours also are indicative of Fauvist influence. The broad use of color in \"The Blue Mountain\" illustrates Kandinsky's inclination toward an art in which color is presented independently of form, and which each color is given equal attention. The composition is more planar; the painting is divided into four sections: the sky, the red tree, the yellow tree and the blue mountain with the three riders.\n\nKandinsky's paintings from this period are large, expressive coloured masses evaluated independently from forms and lines; these serve no longer to delimit them, but overlap freely to form paintings of extraordinary force. Music was important to the birth of abstract art, since music is abstract by nature—it does not try to represent the exterior world, but expresses in an immediate way the inner feelings of the soul. Kandinsky sometimes used musical terms to identify his works; he called his most spontaneous paintings \"improvisations\" and described more elaborate works as \"compositions.\"\n\nIn addition to painting, Kandinsky was an art theorist; his influence on the history of Western art stems perhaps more from his theoretical works than from his paintings. He helped found the Neue Künstlervereinigung München (Munich New Artists' Association), becoming its president in 1909. However, the group could not integrate the radical approach of Kandinsky (and others) with conventional artistic concepts and the group dissolved in late 1911. Kandinsky then formed a new group, the Blue Rider (Der Blaue Reiter) with like-minded artists such as August Macke, Franz Marc, Albert Bloch, and Gabriele Münter. The group released an almanac (\"The Blue Rider Almanac\") and held two exhibits. More of each were planned, but the outbreak of World War I in 1914 ended these plans and sent Kandinsky back to Russia via Switzerland and Sweden.\nHis writing in \"The Blue Rider Almanac\" and the treatise \"On the Spiritual In Art\" (which was released in 1910) were both a defence and promotion of abstract art and an affirmation that all forms of art were equally capable of reaching a level of spirituality. He believed that colour could be used in a painting as something autonomous, apart from the visual description of an object or other form.\n\nThese ideas had an almost-immediate international impact, particularly in the English-speaking world. As early as 1912, \"On the Spiritual In Art\" was reviewed by Michael Sadleir in the London-based \"Art News.\" Interest in Kandinsky grew apace when Sadleir published an English translation of \"On the Spiritual In Art\" in 1914. Extracts from the book were published that year in Percy Wyndham Lewis's periodical \"Blast,\" and Alfred Orage's weekly cultural newspaper \"The New Age\". Kandinsky had received some notice earlier in Britain, however; in 1910, he participated in the Allied Artists' Exhibition (organised by Frank Rutter) at London's Royal Albert Hall. This resulted in his work being singled out for praise in a review of that show by the artist Spencer Frederick Gore in \"The Art News\".\n\nSadleir's interest in Kandinsky also led to Kandinsky's first works entering a British art collection; Sadleir's father, Michael Sadler, acquired several woodprints and the abstract painting \"Fragment for Composition VII\" in 1913 following a visit by father and son to meet Kandinsky in Munich that year. These works were displayed in Leeds, either in the University or the premises of the Leeds Arts Club, between 1913 and 1923.\n\nIn 1916 he met Nina Andreevskaya (1899-1980), whom he married on February 11, 1917. \n\nFrom 1918 to 1921, Kandinsky was involved in the cultural politics of Russia and collaborated in art education and museum reform. He painted little during this period, but devoted his time to artistic teaching, with a program based on form and colour analysis; he also helped organize the Institute of Artistic Culture in Moscow of which he was the first director. His spiritual, expressionistic view of art was ultimately rejected by the radical members of the Institute as too individualistic and bourgeois. In 1921, Kandinsky was invited to go to Germany to attend the Bauhaus of Weimar by its founder, architect Walter Gropius.\n\nIn May 1922 he attended the International Congress of Progressive Artists and signed the \"Founding Proclamation of the Union of Progressive International Artists\".\n\nKandinsky taught the basic design class for beginners and the course on advanced theory at the Bauhaus; he also conducted painting classes and a workshop in which he augmented his colour theory with new elements of form psychology. The development of his works on forms study, particularly on points and line forms, led to the publication of his second theoretical book (\"Point and Line to Plane\") in 1926. His examinations of the effects of forces on straight lines, leading to the contrasting tones of curved and angled lines, coincided with the research of Gestalt psychologists, whose work was also discussed at the Bauhaus. Geometrical elements took on increasing importance in both his teaching and painting—particularly the circle, half-circle, the angle, straight lines and curves. This period was intensely productive. This freedom is characterised in his works by the treatment of planes rich in colours and gradations—as in \"Yellow – red – blue\" (1925), where Kandinsky illustrates his distance from the constructivism and suprematism movements influential at the time.\n\nThe two-meter-wide \"Yellow – red – blue\" (1925) of several main forms: a vertical yellow rectangle, an inclined red cross and a large dark blue circle; a multitude of straight (or sinuous) black lines, circular arcs, monochromatic circles and scattered, coloured checkerboards contribute to its delicate complexity. This simple visual identification of forms and the main coloured masses present on the canvas is only a first approach to the inner reality of the work, whose appreciation necessitates deeper observation—not only of forms and colours involved in the painting but their relationship, their absolute and relative positions on the canvas and their harmony.\n\nKandinsky was one of Die Blaue Vier (Blue Four), formed in 1923 with Paul Klee, Lyonel Feininger and Alexej von Jawlensky, which lectured and exhibited in the United States in 1924. Due to right-wing hostility, the Bauhaus left Weimar and settled in Dessau in 1925. Following a Nazi smear campaign the Bauhaus left Dessau in 1932 for Berlin, until its dissolution in July 1933. Kandinsky then left Germany, settling in Paris.\n\nLiving in an apartment in Paris, Kandinsky created his work in a living-room studio. Biomorphic forms with supple, non-geometric outlines appear in his paintings—forms which suggest microscopic organisms but express the artist's inner life. Kandinsky used original colour compositions, evoking Slavic popular art. He also occasionally mixed sand with paint to give a granular, rustic texture to his paintings.\n\nThis period corresponds to a synthesis of Kandinsky's previous work in which he used all elements, enriching them. In 1936 and 1939 he painted his two last major compositions, the type of elaborate canvases he had not produced for many years. \"Composition IX\" has highly contrasted, powerful diagonals whose central form gives the impression of an embryo in the womb. Small squares of colours and coloured bands stand out against the black background of \"Composition X\" as star fragments (or filaments), while enigmatic hieroglyphs with pastel tones cover a large maroon mass which seems to float in the upper-left corner of the canvas. In Kandinsky’s work some characteristics are obvious, while certain touches are more discreet and veiled; they reveal themselves only progressively to those who deepen their connection with his work. He intended his forms (which he subtly harmonized and placed) to resonate with the observer's soul.\n\nWriting that \"music is the ultimate teacher,\" Kandinsky embarked upon the first seven of his ten \"Compositions\". The first three survive only in black-and-white photographs taken by fellow artist and friend Gabriele Münter. While studies, sketches, and improvisations exist (particularly of \"Composition II\"), a Nazi raid on the Bauhaus in the 1930s resulted in the confiscation of Kandinsky's first three \"Compositions.\" They were displayed in the State-sponsored exhibit \"Degenerate Art\", and then destroyed (along with works by Paul Klee, Franz Marc and other modern artists).\n\nFascinated by Christian eschatology and the perception of a coming New Age, a common theme among Kandinsky's first seven \"Compositions\" is the apocalypse (the end of the world as we know it). Writing of the \"artist as prophet\" in his book, \"Concerning the Spiritual In Art\", Kandinsky created paintings in the years immediately preceding World War I showing a coming cataclysm which would alter individual and social reality. Having a fervent belief in Orthodox Christianity, Kandinsky drew upon the biblical stories of Noah's Ark, Jonah and the whale, Christ's resurrection, the four horsemen of the Apocalypse in the book of Revelation, Russian folktales and the common mythological experiences of death and rebirth. Never attempting to picture any one of these stories as a narrative, he used their veiled imagery as symbols of the archetypes of death–rebirth and destruction–creation he felt were imminent in the pre-World War I world.\n\nAs he stated in \"Concerning the Spiritual In Art\" (see below), Kandinsky felt that an authentic artist creating art from \"an internal necessity\" inhabits the tip of an upward-moving pyramid. This progressing pyramid is penetrating and proceeding into the future. What was odd or inconceivable yesterday is commonplace today; what is \"avant garde\" today (and understood only by the few) is common knowledge tomorrow. The modern artist–prophet stands alone at the apex of the pyramid, making new discoveries and ushering in tomorrow's reality. Kandinsky was aware of recent scientific developments and the advances of modern artists who had contributed to radically new ways of seeing and experiencing the world.\n\n\"Composition IV\" and later paintings are primarily concerned with evoking a spiritual resonance in viewer and artist. As in his painting of the apocalypse by water (\"Composition VI\"), Kandinsky puts the viewer in the situation of experiencing these epic myths by translating them into contemporary terms (with a sense of desperation, flurry, urgency, and confusion). This spiritual communion of viewer-painting-artist/prophet may be described within the limits of words and images.\n\nAs the \"Der Blaue Reiter Almanac\" essays and theorizing with composer Arnold Schoenberg indicate, Kandinsky also expressed the communion between artist and viewer as being available to both the senses and the mind (synesthesia). Hearing tones and chords as he painted, Kandinsky theorized that (for example), yellow is the colour of middle C on a brassy trumpet; black is the colour of closure, and the end of things; and that combinations of colours produce vibrational frequencies, akin to chords played on a piano. In 1871 the young Kandinsky learned to play the piano and cello.\n\nKandinsky also developed a theory of geometric figures and their relationships—claiming, for example, that the circle is the most peaceful shape and represents the human soul. These theories are explained in \"Point and Line to Plane\" (see below).\n\nKandinsky's legendary stage design for a performance of Mussorgsky's \"Pictures at an Exhibition\" illustrates his synaesthetic concept of a universal correspondence of forms, colors and musical sounds. In 1928 in the theater of Dessau, Wassily Kandinsky realized the stage production of \"Pictures at an Exhibition\". In 2015 the original designs of the stage elements were animated with modern video technology and synchronized with the music according to the preparatory notes of Kandinsky and the director's script of Felix Klee.\n\nDuring the studies Kandinsky made in preparation for \"Composition IV,\" he became exhausted while working on a painting and went for a walk. While he was out, Gabriele Münter tidied his studio and inadvertently turned his canvas on its side. Upon returning and seeing the canvas (but not yet recognizing it) Kandinsky fell to his knees and wept, saying it was the most beautiful painting he had ever seen. He had been liberated from attachment to an object. As when he first viewed Monet's \"Haystacks\", the experience would change his life.\n\nIn another episode with Münter during the Bavarian abstract expressionist years, Kandinsky was working on his \"Composition VI\". From nearly six months of study and preparation, he had intended the work to evoke a flood, baptism, destruction, and rebirth simultaneously. After outlining the work on a mural-sized wood panel, he became blocked and could not go on. Münter told him that he was trapped in his intellect and not reaching the true subject of the picture. She suggested he simply repeat the word \"uberflut\" (\"deluge\" or \"flood\") and focus on its sound rather than its meaning. Repeating this word like a mantra, Kandinsky painted and completed the monumental work in a three-day span.\n\nKandinsky's analyses on forms and colours result not from simple, arbitrary idea-associations but from the painter's inner experience. He spent years creating abstract, sensorially rich paintings, working with form and colour, tirelessly observing his own paintings and those of other artists, noting their effects on his sense of colour. This subjective experience is something that anyone can do—not scientific, objective observations but inner, subjective ones, what French philosopher Michel Henry calls \"absolute subjectivity\" or the \"absolute phenomenological life\".\n\nPublished in 1911, Kandinsky's text, \"Über das Geistige in der Kunst\", defines three types of painting; \"impressions\", \"improvisations\" and \"compositions\". While impressions are based on an external reality that serves as a starting point, improvisations and compositions depict images emergent from the unconscious, though \"composition\" is developed from a more formal point of view. Kandinsky compares the spiritual life of humanity to a pyramid—the artist has a mission to lead others to the pinnacle with his work. The point of the pyramid is those few, great artists. It is a spiritual pyramid, advancing and ascending slowly even if it sometimes appears immobile. During decadent periods, the soul sinks to the bottom of the pyramid; humanity searches only for external success, ignoring spiritual forces.\n\nColours on the painter's palette evoke a double effect: a purely physical effect on the eye which is charmed by the beauty of colours, similar to the joyful impression when we eat a delicacy. This effect can be much deeper, however, causing a vibration of the soul or an \"inner resonance\"—a spiritual effect in which the colour touches the soul itself.\n\n\"Inner necessity\" is, for Kandinsky, the principle of art and the foundation of forms and the harmony of colours. He defines it as the principle of efficient contact of the form with the human soul. Every form is the delimitation of a surface by another one; it possesses an inner content, the effect it produces on one who looks at it attentively. This inner necessity is the right of the artist to unlimited freedom, but this freedom becomes licence if it is not founded on such a necessity. Art is born from the inner necessity of the artist in an enigmatic, mystical way through which it acquires an autonomous life; it becomes an independent subject, animated by a spiritual breath.\n\nThe obvious properties we can see when we look at an isolated colour and let it act alone, on one side is the warmth or coldness of the colour tone, and on the other side is the clarity or obscurity of that tone. Warmth is a tendency towards yellow, and coldness a tendency towards blue; yellow and blue form the first great, dynamic contrast. Yellow has an \"eccentric\" movement and blue a \"concentric\" movement; a yellow surface seems to move closer to us, while a blue surface seems to move away. Yellow is a typically terrestrial colour, whose violence can be painful and aggressive. Blue is a celestial colour, evoking a deep calm. The combination of blue and yellow yields total immobility and calm, which is green.\n\nClarity is a tendency towards white, and obscurity is a tendency towards black. White and black form the second great contrast, which is static. White is a deep, absolute silence, full of possibility. Black is nothingness without possibility, an eternal silence without hope, and corresponds with death. Any other colour resonates strongly on its neighbors. The mixing of white with black leads to gray, which possesses no active force and whose tonality is near that of green. Gray corresponds to immobility without hope; it tends to despair when it becomes dark, regaining little hope when it lightens.\n\nRed is a warm colour, lively and agitated; it is forceful, a movement in itself. Mixed with black it becomes brown, a hard colour. Mixed with yellow, it gains in warmth and becomes orange, which imparts an irradiating movement on its surroundings. When red is mixed with blue it moves away from man to become purple, which is a cool red. Red and green form the third great contrast, and orange and purple the fourth.\n\nIn his writings, Kandinsky analyzed the geometrical elements which make up every painting—the \"point\" and the \"line.\" He called the physical support and the material surface on which the artist draws or paints the \"basic plane\", or BP. He did not analyze them objectively, but from the point of view of their inner effect on the observer.\n\nA point is a small bit of colour put by the artist on the canvas. It is neither a geometric point nor a mathematical abstraction; it is extension, form and colour. This form can be a square, a triangle, a circle, a star or something more complex. The point is the most concise form but, according to its placement on the basic plane, it will take a different tonality. It can be isolated or resonate with other points or lines.\n\nA line is the product of a force which has been applied in a given direction: the force exerted on the pencil or paintbrush by the artist. The produced linear forms may be of several types: a \"straight\" line, which results from a unique force applied in a single direction; an \"angular\" line, resulting from the alternation of two forces in different directions, or a \"curved\" (or \"wave-like\") line, produced by the effect of two forces acting simultaneously. A \"plane\" may be obtained by condensation (from a line rotated around one of its ends).\n\nThe subjective effect produced by a line depends on its orientation: a \"horizontal\" line corresponds with the ground on which man rests and moves; it possesses a dark and cold affective tonality similar to black or blue. A \"vertical\" line corresponds with height, and offers no support; it possesses a luminous, warm tonality close to white and yellow. A \"diagonal\" possesses a more-or-less warm (or cold) tonality, according to its inclination toward the horizontal or the vertical.\n\nA force which deploys itself, without obstacle, as the one which produces a straight line corresponds with \"lyricism\"; several forces which confront (or annoy) each other form a \"drama\". The \"angle\" formed by the angular line also has an inner sonority which is warm and close to yellow for an acute angle (a triangle), cold and similar to blue for an obtuse angle (a circle), and similar to red for a right angle (a square).\n\nThe basic plane is, in general, rectangular or square. therefore, it is composed of horizontal and vertical lines which delimit it and define it as an autonomous entity which supports the painting, communicating its affective tonality. This tonality is determined by the relative importance of horizontal and vertical lines: the horizontals giving a calm, cold tonality to the basic plane while the verticals impart a calm, warm tonality. The artist intuits the inner effect of the canvas format and dimensions, which he chooses according to the tonality he wants to give to his work. Kandinsky considered the basic plane a living being, which the artist \"fertilizes\" and feels \"breathing\".\n\nEach part of the basic plane possesses an affective colouration; this influences the tonality of the pictorial elements which will be drawn on it, and contributes to the richness of the composition resulting from their juxtaposition on the canvas. The \"above\" of the basic plane corresponds with looseness and to lightness, while the \"below\" evokes condensation and heaviness. The painter's job is to listen and know these effects to produce paintings which are not just the effect of a random process, but the fruit of authentic work and the result of an effort towards inner beauty.\n\nThis book contains many photographic examples and drawing from Kandinsky’s works which offer the demonstration of its theoretical observations, and which allow the reader to reproduce in him the inner obviousness provided that he takes the time to look at those pictures with care, that he let them acting on its own sensibility and that he let vibrating the sensible and spiritual strings of his soul.\n\nIn 2012, Christie's auctioned Kandinsky's \"Studie für Improvisation 8 (Study for Improvisation 8)\", a 1909 view of a man wielding a broadsword in a rainbow-hued village, for $23 million. The painting had been on loan to the Kunstmuseum Winterthur, Switzerland, since 1960 and was sold to a European collector by the Volkart Foundation, the charitable arm of the Swiss commodities trading firm Volkart Brothers. Before this sale, the artist's last record was set in 1990 when Sotheby's sold his \"Fugue\" (1914) for $20.9 million. On November 16, 2016 Christie's auctioned Kandinsky's \"Rigide et courbé (rigid and bent)\", a large 1935 abstract painting, for $23.3 million, a new record for Kandinsky. Solomon R. Guggenheim originally purchased the painting directly from the artist in 1936, but it was not exhibited after 1949, and was then sold at auction to a private collector in 1964 by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum.\n\nThe 1990 play \"Six Degrees of Separation\" refers to a \"double-sided Kandinsky\" painting. No such painting is known to exist; in the 1993 film version of the play, the double-sided painting is portrayed as having Kandinsky's 1913 painting \"Black Lines\" on one side and his 1926 painting \"Several Circles\" on the other side.\n\nThe 1999 film \"Double Jeopardy\" makes numerous references to Kandinsky, and a piece of his, \"Sketch\", figures prominently in the plotline. The protagonist, Elizabeth Parsons (Ashley Judd), utilizes the registry entry for the work to track down her husband under his new alias. Two variations of the almanac cover of \"Blue Rider\" are also featured in the film.\n\nIn 2014, Google commemorated Kandinsky's 148th birthday by featuring a Google Doodle based on his abstract paintings.\n\nA picture-book biography entitled \"The Noisy Paint Box: The Colors and Sounds of Kandinsky's Abstract Art\" was published in 2014. Its illustrations by Mary GrandPre earned it a 2015 Caldecott Honor.\n\nHis grandson was musicology professor and writer Aleksey Ivanovich Kandinsky (1918–2000), whose career was both focused on and centered in Russia.\n\nThe Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum held a major retrospective of Kandinsky's work from 2009-2010, called \"Kandinsky\". In 2017, a selection of Kandinsky's work was on view at the Guggenheim, \"Visionaries: Creating a Modern Guggenheim\".\n\n\nNote: Several sections of this article have been translated from its French version: \"Theoretical writings on art\", \"The Bauhaus\" and \"The great synthesis\" artistic periods. For complete detailed references in French, see the original version at \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56518900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56518900", "title": "Why Is It So?", "text": "Why Is It So?\n\nWhy Is It So? is an educational science series produced in Australia by ABC Television from 1963 to 1986. The series was hosted by American scientist Julius Sumner Miller, who demonstrated experiments in the world of physics and chemistry. The series was also screened in the United States, Canada, New Zealand and in Europe. \n\nThis program was based on his 1959 series \"Why Is It So?\" in the United States on KNXT Channel 2 in Los Angeles. \n"}
