{"id": "11724178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11724178", "title": "1s Slater-type function", "text": "1s Slater-type function\n\nA normalized 1s Slater-type function is a function which is used in the descriptions of atoms and in a broader way in the description of atoms in molecules. It is particularly important as the accurate quantum theory description of the smallest free atom, hydrogen. It has the form\n\nIt is a particular case of a Slater-type orbital (STO) in which the principal quantum number n is 1. The parameter formula_2 is called the Slater orbital exponent. Related sets of functions can be used to construct STO-nG basis sets which are used in quantum chemistry.\n\nA hydrogen-like atom or a hydrogenic atom is an atom with one electron. Except for the hydrogen atom itself (which is neutral) these atoms carry positive charge formula_3, where formula_4 is the atomic number of the atom. Because hydrogen-like atoms are two-particle systems with an interaction depending only on the distance between the two particles, their (non-relativistic) Schrödinger equation can be exactly solved in analytic form. The solutions are one-electron functions and are referred to as \"hydrogen-like atomic orbitals\". \nThe electronic Hamiltonian (in atomic units) of a Hydrogenic system is given by\nformula_5, where formula_4 is the nuclear charge of the hydrogenic atomic system. The 1s electron of a hydrogenic systems can be accurately described by the corresponding Slater orbital:\nformula_7, where formula_8 is the Slater exponent. This state, the ground state, is the only state that can be described by a Slater orbital. Slater orbitals have no radial nodes, while the excited states of the hydrogen atom have radial nodes.\n\nThe energy of a hydrogenic system can be exactly calculated analytically as follows :\nformula_9, where formula_10\nformula_11\nformula_12\nformula_13. Using the expression for Slater orbital, formula_7 the integrals can be exactly solved. Thus,\nformula_15\nformula_16\n\nThe optimum value for formula_8 is obtained by equating the differential of the energy with respect to formula_8 as zero.\nformula_19. Thus formula_20\n\nThe following energy values are thus calculated by using the expressions for energy and for the Slater exponent.\n\nHydrogen : H\nformula_21 and formula_22\nformula_23−0.5 E\nformula_23−13.60569850 eV\nformula_23−313.75450000 kcal/mol\n\nGold : Au(78+)\nformula_26 and formula_27\nformula_23−3120.5 E\nformula_23−84913.16433850 eV\nformula_23−1958141.8345 kcal/mol.\n\nHydrogenic atomic systems are suitable models to demonstrate the relativistic effects in atomic systems in a simple way. The energy expectation value can calculated by using the Slater orbitals with or without considering the relativistic correction for the Slater exponent formula_31. The relativistically corrected Slater exponent formula_32 is given as\nformula_33.\nThe relativistic energy of an electron in 1s orbital of a hydrogenic atomic systems is obtained by solving the Dirac equation.\nformula_34.\nFollowing table illustrates the relativistic corrections in energy and it can be seen how the relativistic correction scales with the atomic number of the system.\n"}
{"id": "29155666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29155666", "title": "2010 TD54", "text": "2010 TD54\n\n orbits the Sun at a distance of 0.7–3.2 AU once every 2 years and 9 months (1,011 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.64 and an inclination of 4° with respect to the ecliptic.\n\nThe body's observation arc begins with its first observations by the Mount Lemmon Survey and only spans over a period of 3 days until 12 October 2010. It has been observed since then.\n\n made its closest approach at 10:51, 12 October 2010 UTC (6:51 EDT a.m.) at . It is one of the closest known approaches of an asteroid to Earth, at which time the object appeared at a magnitude of 14. It was first observed by of the Catalina Sky Surveys telescopes north of Tucson, Arizona on 9 October 2010.\n\nIt has an Earth \"minimum orbit intersection distance\" of , which corresponds to 0.0693 lunar distance. It was removed from the Sentry Risk Table on 11 October 2010. The asteroid may have passed from Earth in October 1979, but the nominal orbit suggests it passed millions of kilometres from Earth in 1979.\n\n is a stony asteroid, characterized as a Srv subtype.\n\nIn November 2010, a rotational lightcurve of was obtained from photometric observations, which showed that the asteroid is a fast rotator. Lightcurve analysis gave a well-defined rotation period of 0.0229317 hours (1 minute and 23 seconds) with a brightness amplitude of 0.92 magnitude (). A high amplitude typically indicates that the body has an irregular, elongated rather than spherical shape. This result supersedes a previously obtained lightcurve with a shorter period of 0.01167 hours ().\n\nThe \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" assumes a standard albedo for stony asteroids of 0.20 and calculates a diameter of based on an absolute magnitude of 28.9. NASA's press release gave an estimated diameter of 5 to 10 meters (16 to 33 feet).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5115302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5115302", "title": "African easterly jet", "text": "African easterly jet\n\nThe African easterly jet is a region of the lower troposphere over West Africa where the seasonal mean wind speed is at a maximum and the wind is easterly. The temperature contrast between the Sahara Desert and the Gulf of Guinea causes the jet to form to the north of the monsoon trough. The jet's maximum wind speeds are at a height of . The jet moves northward from its south-most location in January, reaching its most northerly latitude in August. Its strongest winds are in September while it begins shifting back towards the equator. Within the easterly jet, tropical waves form. Convective complexes associated with these waves can form tropical cyclones. If the jet is south of its normal location during August and September, tropical cyclogenesis is suppressed. If desertification continues across Sub-Saharan Africa, the strength of the jet could increase, although tropical wave generation probably would decrease, which would decrease the number of tropical cyclones in the Atlantic basin.\n\nDuring January, the African easterly jet lies at above sea level at five degrees north latitude. Winds within it increase in speed from in January to in March. Shifting northward in April to the seventh parallel, winds within the jet increase to . By June, it shifts northward into northwest Africa.\n\nFrom June into October, the thermal low over northern Africa leads to a low-level westerly jet stream to the south of the Intertropical Convergence Zone. The mid-level African easterly jet develops because heating of the West African land mass during this time of year creates a surface temperature and moisture gradient between the Gulf of Guinea and the Sahara Desert. The atmosphere responds by generating vertical wind shear to maintain thermal wind balance. The jet reaches its zenith in August, lying between the 16th and 17th parallels. In September, winds maximize near between the 12th and 13th parallels. The easterly jet weakens and drops southward during October and November.\n\nThe mid-level African easterly jet is considered to play a crucial role in the southwest monsoon of Africa, and helps form the tropical waves that move across the tropical Atlantic and eastern Pacific oceans during the warm season. The jet exhibits both barotropic and baroclinic instability, which produces synoptic scale, westward-propagating disturbances in the jet known as African easterly waves or tropical waves. A small number of mesoscale storm systems embedded in these waves develop into tropical cyclones after they move from west Africa into the tropical Atlantic, mainly during August and September. When the jet is south of normal during the peak months of the Atlantic hurricane season, tropical cyclone formation is suppressed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41014741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41014741", "title": "Backlundtoppen", "text": "Backlundtoppen\n\nBacklundtoppen is a mountain in Olav V Land at Spitsbergen, Svalbard. It has a height of 1,068 m.a.s.l. and is located east of Billefjorden and west of Akademikarbreen. The mountain is named after Swedish-Russian astronomer Johan Oskar Backlund. It hosted a trigonometric station during the Swedish-Russian Arc-of-Meridian Expedition.\n"}
{"id": "42608423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42608423", "title": "Climate resources of Azerbaijan Republic", "text": "Climate resources of Azerbaijan Republic\n\nPotential of using of climatic resources, including solar and wind energy is large in Azerbaijan, despite that the share of these resources within energy production is still small.\n\nThe possibility of use of solar energy is large in Azerbaijan Republic due to wide climatic resources and advantageous agroclimatic potential of the country. The quantitative indicators of sunny hours are sufficient in the country. The yearly amount of sunny hours is 1800-2900 in Azerbaijan. The highest indicator is typical for the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Nakhchivan, reaching up to 2900 hours a year. The Kura-Araz lowland, Jeyranchol area, and the peninsula of Absheron are the territories with 2200-2400 sunny hours. The amount of solar radiation is also favorable, hesitating by regions from 125 to 150 kcal per sq. centimeter. It is 125-134 kcal per sq. cm in the Kura-Araz and Lankaran lowlands. The highest figure is in Nakhchivan (145-160 kcal per sq. cm).\n\nSumgait-located AzgunTech plant, constructed by State Company of Alternative and Renewable Energy Sources, operates since 2012. This firstly commissioned High-Tech Park in the country produces sun panels and LED lamps. Each module of solar panels in the plant has 60 solar cells with capacity of 42-250 watts. Production is also relevant to the project named \"Thousand houses - thousand plants\" designed for the housing sector, and is to provide installation of solar panels on housing buildings. It is expected that the capacity of the plant will made 240 thousand solar panels a year in the future. Production of solar batteries in Sumgait is expected to be realized, too. Besides with these, the plant will produce 36 million LED chips and 12 million diode lamps a year.\n\nIt is estimated that in Azerbaijan, natural and geographical condition, and also economic infrastructure may allow to produce 800 mWt of energy a year at the expense of wind power. This is equivalent to an electric energy of 2,4 billion kWt/hour. The best condition for developing wind power industry is on northwestern part of the Caspian Sea. Historically, a lot of windmills have been constructed in the territory of Azerbaijan, particularly in Absheron peninsula with the purpose of using drinking waters of wells. This method is currently used in some places of the peninsula.\n\nTaking into consideration the power, directions, and continuation of winds as well as possibilities of taking advantage of wind energy, the two zones may be differed in the territory of country.\n\nThe first zone covers territories of Siyazan, Khizi, Absheron, Gobustan, Neftchala, Salyan, including the mouth of Kura River. This large area is dominated by northern and partially dillag northwestern winds. The speed of Nord (northern winds) is up to 8–10 m/s. In this strip zone from Siyazan to the point of Alat, the yearly number of wind-blowing hours reaches 2000-2200. The average speed of wind reaches 6–9 m/s in Absheron peninsula where the annual number of wind-blowing days reaches 245-280. At least 8-10% of the territory of Absheron is reliable for installation of wind turbines. There are great possibilities for development of wind farms also in the islands of the Caspian Sea, the number of which is 50 as well as the territories of Khachmaz, Masalli, and less-populated Gobustan. \nThe second winds-dominated zone encompasses Jeyranchol Plateau, the regions of Ganjabasar, Goranboy, Terter and surrounding areas where northwestern winds are dominant. Creation of wind power plants in these territories would be effective particularly due to plenty sunny hours of spring and winter.\n\nGanja-Dashkasan region, and also the administrative areas of Sharur and Julfa, located in Autonomous Republic of Nakhchivan are favorable territories areas for construction of wind farm due to the dominant winds average yearly speed of which make up 3–5 m/s. The last indicator is advantageous for operation of wind stations of medium power. The average yearly speed of winds in the Great Caucasus is 0,8-2,3 m/s as well as 1,8-2,4 m/s in Lankaran-Astara, and 1,9-2,7 m/s in Karabagh and other territories of the Lesser Caucasus. These indicators and the carried out analysis give a basis to suggest about efficiency of using wind power chiefly in Absheron, Gobustan, Siyazan, and the adjacent Pre-Caspian territories, and also northwestern part of Azerbaijan – Enke-boyugusu-Goranboy-Jeyranchol zone. Moreover, it is favorable also in term of efficient land use, because the both mentioned zones have not fertile soils, and therefore, are less-populated and suitable areas for allocation of wind generators.\n\nIn order to use alternative energy, the construction of hybrid polygon is underway in Maraza settlement of Gobustan. The polygon operates at the expense of not only wind and sunbeam but also biomass. By 2012, 2,7 mWt of energy is produced due to wind power, 2,0 mWt of energy is gained by using sunbeam as well as 1,0 mWt from biomass. The polygon will provide Gobustan region with electricity in the future. The creation of Sea Wind Farm in the Caspian Sea, estimated at €250 million is to be invested by non-state entities and the government in the future.\n"}
{"id": "23281632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23281632", "title": "Coal by country", "text": "Coal by country\n\nThis article includes lists representing proven reserves and production of coal by country. All data is taken from British Petroleum.\n\nThe reserve list specifies different types of coal and includes countries with at least 0.1% share of estimated world coal reserves.\n\nThe production list includes countries with coal production close to or larger than 1 million tonnes.\n\nAccording to the International Energy Agency (IEA), the Top 10 Coal Producers (in Mt) in 2011 were: China 3,576 (46%), United States 1,004 (13%), India 586 (8%), Australia 414 (5%), Indonesia 376 (5%), Russia 334 (4%), South Africa 253 (3%), Germany 189 (2%), Poland 139 (2%) and Kazakhstan 117 (2%). In 2011 total coal production was 7,783 Mt.\n\nTop coal producers in 2012 were (Mt): China 3,549, United States 935, India 595, Indonesia 443, Australia 421, Russia 354, South Africa 259, Germany 197, Poland 144 and Kazakhstan 126. In 2012 total coal production was 7,832 Mt. World coal production increased from year 2011 to 2012.\n\nTop coal producers in 2015 were (Mt): China 3,650, United States 916, India 668, Australia 491, Indonesia 471, Russia 334, South Africa 253, Germany 187, Poland 137 and Kazakhstan 115. In 2015 total coal production was 7,925 Mt.\n\n"}
{"id": "21902683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21902683", "title": "Earth system science", "text": "Earth system science\n\nEarth system science (ESS) is the application of systems science to the Earth sciences. In particular, it considers interactions between the Earth's \"spheres\"—atmosphere, hydrosphere, cryosphere, geosphere, pedosphere, biosphere, and, even, the magnetosphere—as well as the impact of human societies on these components. At its broadest scale, Earth system science brings together researchers across both the natural and social sciences, from fields including ecology, economics, geology, glaciology, meteorology, oceanography, paleontology, sociology, and space science. Like the broader subject of systems science, Earth system science assumes a holistic view of the dynamic interaction between the Earth's spheres and their many constituent subsystems, the resulting organization and time evolution of these systems, and their stability or instability. Subsets of Earth system science include systems geology and systems ecology, and many aspects of Earth system science are fundamental to the subjects of physical geography and climate science.\n\nThe Science Education Resource Center, Carleton College, offers the following description: \"Earth system science embraces chemistry, physics, biology, mathematics and applied sciences in transcending disciplinary boundaries to treat the Earth as an integrated system. It seeks a deeper understanding of the physical, chemical, biological and human interactions that determine the past, current and future states of the Earth. Earth system science provides a physical basis for understanding the world in which we live and upon which humankind seeks to achieve sustainability\".\n\nFor millennia, humans have speculated how the physical and living elements on the surface of the Earth combine, with gods and goddesses frequently posited to embody specific elements. The notion that the Earth, itself, is alive was a regular theme of Greek philosophy and religion. Early scientific interpretations of the Earth system began in the field of geology, initially in the Middle East and China, and largely focused on aspects such as the age of the Earth and the large-scale processes involved in mountain and ocean formation. As geology developed as a science, understanding of the interplay of different facets of the Earth system increased, leading to the inclusion of factors such as the Earth's interior, planetary geology and living systems.\n\nIn many respects, the foundational concepts of Earth system science can be seen in the holistic interpretations of nature promoted by the 19th century geographer Alexander von Humboldt. In the 20th century, Vladimir Vernadsky (1863–1945) saw the functioning of the biosphere as a geological force generating a dynamic disequilibrium, which in turn promoted the diversity of life. In the mid-1960s, James Lovelock first postulated a regulatory role for the biosphere in feedback mechanisms within the Earth system. Initially named the \"Earth Feedback hypothesis\", Lovelock later renamed it the Gaia hypothesis, and subsequently further developed the theory with American evolutionary theorist Lynn Margulis during the 1970s. In parallel, the field of systems science was developing across numerous other scientific fields, driven in part by the increasing availability and power of computers, and leading to the development of climate models that began to allow the detailed and interacting simulations of the Earth's weather and climate. Subsequent extension of these models has led to the development of \"Earth system models\" (ESMs) that include facets such as the cryosphere and the biosphere.\n\nAs an integrative field, Earth system science assumes the histories of a vast range of scientific disciplines, but as a discrete study it evolved in the 1980s, particularly at NASA, where a committee called the Earth System Science Committee was formed in 1983. The earliest reports of NASA's ESSC, \"Earth System Science: Overview\" (1986), and the book-length \"Earth System Science: A Closer View\" (1988), constitute a major landmark in the formal development of Earth system science. Early works discussing Earth system science, like these NASA reports, generally emphasized the increasing human impacts on the Earth system as a primary driver for the need of greater integration among the life and geo-sciences, making the origins of Earth system science parallel to the beginnings of global change studies and programs.\n\nClimatology and climate change have been central to Earth system science since its inception, as evidenced by the prominent place given to climate change in the early NASA reports discussed above. The Earth's climate system is a prime example of an emergent property of the whole planetary system which cannot be fully understood without regarding it as a single integrated entity. It is also a property of the system where human impacts have been growing rapidly in recent decades, lending immense importance to the successful development and advancement of Earth system science research. As just one example of the centrality of climatology to the field, leading American climatologist Michael E. Mann is the Director of one of the earliest centers for Earth system science research, the Earth System Science Center at Pennsylvania State University, and its mission statement reads, \"the Earth System Science Center (ESSC) maintains a mission to describe, model, and understand the Earth's climate system\".\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis posits that living systems interact with physical components of the Earth system to form a self-regulating whole that maintains conditions that are favourable for life. Developed initially by James Lovelock, the hypothesis attempts to account for key features of the Earth system, including the long period (several billion years) of relatively favourable climatic conditions against a backdrop of steadily increasing solar radiation. Consequently, the Gaia hypothesis has important implications for Earth system science, as noted by NASA's Director for Planetary Science, James Green, in October 2010: \"Dr. Lovelock and Dr. Margulis played a key role in the origins of what we now know as Earth system science\".\n\nAlthough the Gaia hypothesis and Earth system science take an interdisciplinary approach to studying systems operations on a planetary-scale, they are not synonymous with one another. A number of potential Gaian feedback mechanisms have been proposed—such as the CLAW hypothesis—but the hypothesis does not have universal support within the scientific community, though it remains an active research topic.\n\nEarth system science can be studied at a postgraduate level at some universities, with notable programs at such institutions as the University of California, Irvine, University of Pennsylvania, and Stanford University. In general education, the American Geophysical Union, in cooperation with the Keck Geology Consortium and with support from five divisions within the National Science Foundation, convened a workshop in 1996, \"to define common educational goals among all disciplines in the Earth sciences\". In its report, participants noted that, \"The fields that make up the Earth and space sciences are currently undergoing a major advancement that promotes understanding the Earth as a number of interrelated systems\". Recognizing the rise of this systems approach, the workshop report recommended that an Earth system science curriculum be developed with support from the National Science Foundation. In 2000, the Earth System Science Education Alliance was begun, and currently includes the participation of 40+ institutions, with over 3,000 teachers having completed an ESSEA course as of fall 2009\".\n"}
{"id": "479209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479209", "title": "Exploitation of natural resources", "text": "Exploitation of natural resources\n\nThe exploitation of natural resources is the use of natural resources for economic growth, sometimes with a negative connotation of accompanying environmental degradation. It started to emerge on an industrial scale in the 19th century as the extraction and processing of raw materials (such as in mining, steam power, and machinery) developed much further than it had in preindustrial areas. During the 20th century, energy consumption rapidly increased. Today, about 80% of the world’s energy consumption is sustained by the extraction of fossil fuels, which consists of oil, coal and gas. Another non-renewable resource that is exploited by humans is subsoil minerals such as precious metals that are mainly used in the production of industrial commodities. Intensive agriculture is an example of a mode of production that hinders many aspects of the natural environment, for example the degradation of forests in a terrestrial ecosystem and water pollution in an aquatic ecosystem. As the world population rises and economic growth occurs, the depletion of natural resources influenced by the unsustainable extraction of raw materials becomes an increasing concern.\n\n\nNatural resources are not limitless, and the following consequences can arise from the careless and excessive consumption of these resources:\n\nWhen a mining company enters a developing country in the global south to extract raw materials, advocating the advantages of the industry’s presence and minimizing the potential negative effects gain cooperation of the local people. Advantageous factors are primarily in economic development so services that the government could not provide such as health centers, police departments and schools can be established. However, with economic development, money becomes a dominant subject of interest. This can bring about major conflicts that a local community in a developing country has never dealt with before. These conflicts emerge by a change to more egocentric views among the locals influenced by consumerist values.\n\nThe effects of the exploitation of natural resources in the local community of a developing country are exhibited in the impacts from the Ok Tedi Mine. After BHP, now BHP Billiton, entered into Papua New Guinea to exploit copper and gold, the economy of the indigenous peoples boomed. Although their quality of life has improved, initially disputes were common among the locals in terms of land rights and who should be getting the benefits from the mining project. The consequences of the Ok Tedi environmental disaster illustrate the potential negative effects from the exploitation of natural resources. The resulting mining pollution includes toxic contamination of the natural water supply for communities along the Ok Tedi River, causing widespread killing of aquatic life. When a mining company ends a project after extracting the raw materials from an area of a developing country, the local people are left to manage with the environmental damage done to their community and the long run sustainability of the economic benefits stimulated by the mining company’s presence becomes a concern.\n\n"}
{"id": "6442856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6442856", "title": "G-Zero world", "text": "G-Zero world\n\nThe term G-Zero world refers to an emerging vacuum of power in international politics created by a decline of Western influence and the domestic focus of the governments of developing states. It aims to explain a world in which there is no single country or group of countries that has ability and will, economically and politically, to drive a truly global agenda. \n\nThe term G-Zero was first coined by political scientists Ian Bremmer and David F. Gordon. G-Zero became the main theme of Ian Bremmer's book, \"\" (Portfolio, May 2012). \n\nIt is a reference to a perceived shift away from the preeminence of the Group of Seven industrialized countries and the expanded Group of Twenty, which includes major emerging powers like China, India, Brazil, Turkey and others. It is also a rejection of terms like G2, often used to identify a possible strategic partnership between the U.S. and Chinese governments, or G3, which represents an attempt to align U.S., European and Japanese interests to defend free market democracy from the rise of Chinese-inspired state-dominated capitalism.\n\nThose who argue that the G-Zero has become the current international order warn that the G7 has become obsolete, that the G20 offers too many competing visions of the proper role of government in an economy to produce well-coordinated policies, that China has no interest in the responsibilities that come with a G2, and that America, Europe and Japan are too mired in internal problems to forge a common approach to economic and security policy. \n\nIn an article called “From G8 to G20 to G-Zero: Why no one wants to take charge in the new global order,\" Ian Bremmer writes that making compromises are difficult since each country has their own values and developed countries have voters that want their leader's focus to be domestic community, not the international one. Some of these developed countries include: the United States, Britain, Germany, France, and Japan. As developed countries start to focus on their domestic issues, the lack of global leadership increases which in turn increases the transnational problems. As global leadership decreases, clashes between countries are also increasing such as America and China having different views on “statedriven and free-market varieties of capitalism”. There are also issues arising in East Asia between nations such as China and Japan in the East China Sea. The U.S. has to also focus on changes in their energy sector and whether they should participate in Syria’s civil war.\n\nBremmer explains that governments can adapt to the G-Zero through focusing on regional solutions such as China’s deals with the Association of South-East Asian Nations (A.S.E.A.N.) and the United States’ progress on the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Governments can also form relationships with a diversity of partners. However some countries may still not be able to adapt to the G-0 because of three impacting events in the world: \"China's rise, Middle East turmoil and the redesign of Europe\". Countries affected by these events would be Japan, Israel and Britain. \n\nThe concept of the G-Zero has been criticized by some who argue that it overstates the decline in America’s political and economic power and underestimates the willingness of developing countries to play a larger role on the international stage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19546866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19546866", "title": "Grzimek's Animal Life Encyclopedia", "text": "Grzimek's Animal Life Encyclopedia\n\nGrzimek's Animal Life Encyclopedia is a large comprehensive encyclopedia of animal life. It is named after its original editor in chief, Bernhard Grzimek ().\n\nOriginally the encyclopedia was published as a 13-volume set in German under the name \"Grzimeks Tierleben\" (\"Grzimek's Animal Life\") in 1967-1972; it was translated into English in 1972-75. The encyclopedia was an international collaboration by a large number of scientists including Theodor Haltenorth, Wolfgang Gewalt, Heinz-Georg Klös, Konrad Lorenz, Heinz Heck, Lutz Heck, Jean Dorst, Constantine Walter Benson, Irenäus Eibl-Eibesfeldt, Helmut Sick, Heini Hediger, Wolfgang Makatsch, Erich Thenius, Erna Mohr, Adolf Portmann, Nagamichi Kuroda, Lester L. Short, Gerlof Fokko Mees, and Andrew John Berger. It was later extensively updated and republished in a 17-volume second edition under the supervision of Michael Hutchins in 2003. Some university libraries offer access to a digitized version of the second edition. The German edition also published three supplementary volumes: \"Entwicklungsgeschichte der Lebewesen\" (\"History of Life\"), \"Verhaltensforschung\" (\"Behavioural Research\") and \"Unsere Umwelt als Lebensraum - Ökologie\" (\"Our Environment as Living Space - Ecology\").\n\nIn Fall 2009, Gale Cengage released a web-based version of the encyclopedia, with access to the web site by subscription. The site allows users to rate articles and to submit videos and photography.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57257423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57257423", "title": "Harriet White Fisher", "text": "Harriet White Fisher\n\nHarriet White Fisher Andrew was an American known for being the first woman to circle the globe in a Locomobile.\n\nHarriet White was born in Crawford County, Pennsylvania on March 31, 1861. She was the daughter of Oscar A. White and Hannah Fisher, and was educated at The Young Women's Classical Seminary in Cleveland Ohio. At the time of the Johnstown Flood she took care of victims. Wu Tingfang, Chinese diplomat and politician, called Mrs. Harriet White Fisher \"The most wonderful woman in America.\"\n\nHer first known marriage was to Clark Fisher. They were married in London, England on July 20, 1898. The report of their marriage in the \"Trenton Evening Times\" states the bride's name as Mrs. White, a widow who moved to Flushing, Queens in 1896. However, a later interview of Harriet Fisher, stated she was a \"White\" by birth and her mother was distantly related to her husband. Fisher died in 1903. She married again on April 27, 1912 to Sylvan Alfredo Andrew, an officer in the Argentine Navy, in Manhattan. It was described as a quiet ceremony in the press because the groom's brother had died on the \"Titanic\" a few days earlier.\n\nOn October 8, 1902 two Pennsylvania Railroad passenger trains collided in Menlo Park, New Jersey. Harriet Fisher was severely injured. A report of her injuries stated she was in Presbyterian Hospital (New York City) for eight weeks, hospitalized with fractured hips, spinal injury, and internal injury.\n\nAfter her husband's death, Harriet Fisher took over the management of Eagle Steel Works (later named Fisher & Norris Anvil Works) in Trenton, New Jersey. She was the only woman member of the National Association of Manufacturers. She is quoted in \"The Washington Post\" in 1911, describing her involvement in the business: \n\"Though I liked machinery even when a child,\" said Mrs. Fisher, \"it was my husband's illness and the desire which every woman has to help in an emergency that led me to enter the Eagle Works, of which Mr. Fisher was the head. I went in as the 'boss'; but I soon learned that if I was to be respected by my employees, I would have to know more than they did. To this end, I began as a regular apprentice, learned to temper steel, chisel the face of an anvil, mold vises and make rails. In fact, I took a complete course in every department of the business, from melting pig-iron to bidding for contracts. Before I was through, I learned really to love the work with iron and steel, the whir of the machinery, and the sound of the forge.\"\nHer wealth was reported at $2,000,000 in 1906. \"She underbid her rivals on part of the Panama Canal equipment and has made $1,000,000 on that feature of her plan's output.\" \n\nInitial reports prior to her setting off on the journey revealed her car was built in Bridgeport, Connecticut, it was 40 Horsepower with no special equipment. It was a four-seater and her planned companions were Harold Fisher Brooks (a relative), a chef named Albert, and a maid. She also traveled with a pet monkey, a Bull Terrier and a Pug. The planned route was to ship the car to England, travel to her Italian villa at Lake Como, and then on through Egypt, Russia, India, towards their final destination of Japan. A bon voyage party was announced in July 1909 at the Automobile Club of Americaand the party set off on July 19, 1909. It was reported that she arrived at Lake Como by November 1909. A contemporary newspaper account, stated that Fisher and her entourage had completed their journey to their destination of Japan and that the travelers and the vehicle were back in San Francisco, California. She arrived in Tarrytown, New York on August 16, 1910, completing her journey around the world. Fisher wrote a book about her adventure titled \"A Woman's World Tour in A Motor\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28158585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28158585", "title": "Hellenic Trench", "text": "Hellenic Trench\n\nThe Hellenic Trench is a hemispherical-scale long narrow depression in the Ionian Sea.\n\nThe hadal zone of the Hellenic trench is roughly to 5,300 metres (17,388 feet) deep. The names of the three major parts of the Hellenic trench are: Matapan Deep System or Matapan–Vavilov Deep, roughly , the Kithera–Antikithera System, , and the Zakinthos–Strofadhes system, .\n\nThe Calypso Deep, located in the Hellenic Trench, is roughly deep and is the deepest point in the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nThe Hellenic trench region is an ecosystem to sperm whales and other aquatic life and has been used by marine biologists to study the behaviour of various aquatic species.\n\nThis is the trench where several earthquakes, including the 365 Crete earthquake, occurred.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4108235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4108235", "title": "Holocene glacial retreat", "text": "Holocene glacial retreat\n\nThe Holocene glacial retreat is a geographical phenomenon that involved the global deglaciation of glaciers that previously had advanced during the Last Glacial Maximum. Ice sheet retreat initiated ca. 19,000 years ago and accelerated after ca. 15,000 years ago. The Holocene, starting with abrupt warming 11,700 years ago, resulted in rapid melting of the remaining ice sheets of North America and Europe. The retreat of glaciers altered landscapes in many ways and is currently still acting as a result of climate change.\n\nRadiocarbon dating has been used to date the start of glacial retreat on Alexander island 18,000 years ago. The outermost locations like Marguerite Bay were fully deglaciated 12,000 years ago and the further inland locations continued deglaciating for an additional 3,000 years. The Larsen ice shelf was formed in the early Holocene at a latest estimation of 10,700 years ago. Certain segments of the ice shelf have collapsed as recently as 1995 for Larsen A and a large segment of Larsen B collapsed in 2002.\n\nThe many valleys of the Cairngorms, a mountainous region in the Eastern Scottish Highlands are littered with deposits from this period.\n\nIn northwestern Iceland, the Icelandic ice sheet began its non-uniform retreat about 15,000 years ago. Surface exposure dating using Cl isotopes was the primary means of dating boulders and terminal moraines in the Drangajökull area in Iceland. Ages of erratic boulders found near the Leirufj€orður valley and moraine range from 7-12 thousand years old. The average ages for the groupings of boulders in the Leirufj€orður area is 9.3 thousand years ago. Meltwater from the glacial lake Lake Agassiz contributed to the neoglaciation during the holocene which resulted in an uptick of glacial activity. Directly south of Leirufj€orður in the Kaldalon Valley the average age of the boulders is 15,000 years old. The two different average ages are a result of different rates of glacial activity in Iceland.The Nuup Kangerlua and Sermilik regions in southwestern and southeastern Greenland respectively are two localities that experienced deglaciation after the Holocene warming period started. Warming atmospheric temperatures as well as warming waters in the Labrador Sea accelerated the speed of deglaciation which started on the coasts of Greenland before heading inland. Moraines located in the interior of the Nuup Kangerlua area have been dated to 8.1-8.3 thousand years ago which mark a local cooling that caused glaciers to readvance and leave moraines behind.\n\nAnother area that has experienced deglaciation during the Holocene is the Spitsbergen island within Svalbard archipelago in Norway. For the last 12,000 years exposed rockwalls have been eroding due to a mixture of biogenic flaking, frost shattering, and stress relaxation that results when glaciers retreat. One way the rate of rockwall retreat is measured is by examing the diameters of local lichen to establish an age of growth.\n\nThe retreat of the Laurentide Ice Sheet in Canada led to the formation of moraines and up to 26 proglacial lakes scattered throughout central Canada. The deglaciation occurred from the last glacial maximum (21,000 years ago) until about 7000 years ago. Some of the lakes the southern Ungava Bay area were fully deglaciated c. 6,000 years ago.\n\nThe modern Ohio River was formed when the river was temporarily dammed just southwest of Louisville, Kentucky, creating a large lake until the dam burst. The Ohio River largely supplanted the former Teays River drainage system, which was disrupted by the glaciers.\n\nAncient Lake Chicago, on the southern margin of the Wisconsin Glacier, found successive lower outlets as the glacier retreated, until the Saint Lawrence River route was uncovered. Corresponding to each level, remnant lake shore features may be found in many areas. One prehistoric shoreline is delineated by Bluff Avenue, a north-south street on the La Grange, Illinois east side. \n\nCurrent river delta positioning and sediment composition in northern Michigan were created by a glacial lake. The lake resulted from retreating glaciers.\n\nThe Northern Patagonian Icefield is one of the locations that experienced a surge in glacial activity during the neoglaciation period. Terminal moraines formed 5.7 thousand years ago in the San Rafael Glacier and around 4.96 thousand years ago they formed in the nearby Colonia glacier. In the Southern Patagonian Icefield located in Argentina and Chile, some glaciers have actually been advancing to their peak extents as recently as the 19th century as evidenced by morraines. Another remnant of glacial activity in the southern Patagonian icefield is the creation of meltwater channels within the El Canal spillway found near the Lago del Toro in Chile. The different layers of stratification have been used to date different occurrences of glacial lakes in the region.\n\nWithin the last 30 years while most locations have experienced continue glacial retreat, glaciers located in the Southern Alps of New Zealand have advanced in position. Glaciers located near coasts such as those in New Zealand are especially responsive of climate change and serve as an indicator of local climate change. The anticipated warming waters near New Zealand in the Tasman sea will lead to a reduction in glacial mass balance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "223980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223980", "title": "Ice crystals", "text": "Ice crystals\n\nIce crystals are solid ice exhibiting atomic ordering on various length scales and include hexagonal columns, hexagonal plates, dendritic crystals, and diamond dust. \n\nThe hugely symmetric shapes are due to depositional growth, namely, direct deposition of water vapour onto the ice crystal. Depending on environmental temperature and humidity, ice crystals can develop from the initial hexagonal prism into numerous symmetric shapes. Possible shapes for ice crystals are columns, needles, plates and dendrites. If the crystal migrates into regions with different environmental conditions, the growth pattern may change, and the final crystal may show mixed patterns. Ice crystals tend to fall with their major axis aligned along the horizontal, and are thus visible in polarimetric weather radar signatures with enhanced (positive) differential reflectivity values. Electrification of ice crystals can induce alignments different from the horizontal. Electrified ice crystals are also well detectable by polarimetric weather radars.\n\nTemperature and humidity determine many different crystalline forms. Ice crystals are responsible for various atmospheric optics displays.\n\nIce clouds are composed of ice crystals, the most notable being cirrus clouds and ice fog. The slight whitening of a clear blue sky caused by ice crystals high in the troposphere can be a sign that a weather front (and rain) is approaching, as moist air is carried to high levels and freezes to ice crystals.\n\nAt ambient temperature and pressure, water molecules have a V shape. The two hydrogen atoms bond to the oxygen atom at a 105° angle.\n\nCommon ice crystals are symmetrical and have a hexagonal pattern.\n\nSquare ice crystals form at room temperature when squeezed between two layers of graphene. The material is a new crystalline phase of ice, joining 17 others. The research derived from the earlier discovery that water vapor and liquid water could pass through laminated sheets of graphene oxide, unlike smaller molecules such as helium. The effect is thought to be driven by the van der Waals force, which may involve more than 10,000 atmospheres of pressure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22964702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22964702", "title": "Jacques l'Hermite", "text": "Jacques l'Hermite\n\nJacques l'Hermite (c. 1582 – June 2, 1624), sometimes also known as Jacques le Clerq , was a Dutch merchant, explorer and admiral known for his journey around the globe with the Nassau Fleet (1623–1626) and for his blockade and raid on Callao in 1624 during that same voyage in which he also died. He served the Dutch East India Company as chief merchant in Bantam and Ambon Island in the Dutch East Indies. The Chilean Hermite Islands near Cape Horn which his fleet charted in February 1624 are named after him.\n\nL'Hermite was born in Antwerp, Dutch Republic (present-day Belgium) around the year 1582. After the fall of Antwerp in 1585 in a battle with the Spanish Empire, the family moved north to Amsterdam and later settled in Rotterdam. He left the Republic in 1606 and spent the next six years working in the Dutch East Indies.\n\nIn 1606 l'Hermite set sail to the Dutch East Indies as a secretary on the fleet commanded by Admiral Cornelis Matelief Jr. where in 1607 he was appointed chief merchant on the \"Black Lion\" (). From 1607–1611 l'Hermite was chief merchant () for the Dutch East India Company in Bantam, Dutch East Indies. After six years working abroad he returned to Amsterdam in the Dutch Republic. There he married Theodora van Wely in March 1613.\n\nIn April 1623 l'Hermite was commissioned by Prince Maurice of Nassau and the Dutch State General to lead a fleet of eleven ships known as the \"Nassau Fleet\" () with its flagship \"Amsterdam\". The fleet set sail on a circumnavigational voyage westwards from Amsterdam to the western coast of South America with the objective to hunt down Spanish silver ships leaving Peru and to establish a Dutch colony in either Peru or Chile, at that time known as the Viceroyalty of Peru.\n\nAlthough commanded by Admiral l'Hermite, the fleet was \"de facto\" led by his Vice-Admiral Gheen Huygen Schapenham and Rear-Admiral Julius Wilhelm Van Verschoor after l'Hermite like most of its crew suffered from dysentery during the journey. Early 1624 the fleet passed Cape Horn through Lemaire Channel and explored and charted the Hermite Islands. In May 1624 the fleet blocked the port of Callao and raided the cities of Pisco and Guayaquil, but they were unsuccessful in establishing a colony and the fleet was forced to continue its voyage westwards towards the Dutch East Indies.\n\nL'Hermite died on June 2, 1624 during the blockade of Callao after suffering from dysentery and scurvy for months. He was buried on San Lorenzo Island off the coast of Callao, Peru.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85316", "title": "Juturna", "text": "Juturna\n\nIn the myth and religion of ancient Rome, Juturna was a goddess of fountains, wells and springs, and the mother of Fontus by Janus. Jupiter turned her into a water nymph – a Naiad – and gave her a sacred well in Lavinium, Latium, as well as another one near the temple to Vesta in the Forum Romanum. The pool next to the second well was called Lacus Juturnae. A local water nymph or river-god generally presides over a single body of water, but Juturna has broader powers which probably reflect her original importance in Latium, where she had temples in Rome and Lavinium, a cult of healthful waters at Ardea, and the fountain/well next to the lake in the Roman forum. It was here in Roman legend that the deities Castor and Pollux watered their horses after bringing news of the Roman victory at the Battle of Lake Regillus in 496 BC (Valerius Maximus, I.8.1; Plutarch, Life of Aemilius Paulus, 25.2, Life of Coriolanus, 3.4).\n\nVirgil makes her a sister of Turnus who supported him against Aeneas by giving him his sword after he dropped it in battle, as well as taking him away from the battle when it seemed he would be killed. In the end, however, she could not save him from his fate, and retreated into her waters in mourning. Ovid relates her affair with Jupiter (Greek Zeus): the secret was betrayed by another nymph, Larunda, whom Jupiter struck with muteness as punishment. Juturna is further hellenized by Juno’s conferral of catasterism (Aen. 12.143, 145), an act that links her with the Dioscuri. These divinities all share a similar function as helpers of mortals and had traditional cultic connections in early Latium.\n\nHolloway has argued that the goddess shown carrying a winged helmet on early Roman coinage is Juturna, but her iconography is largely unknown. A later altar relief from the Temple of Castor and Pollux in the Roman Forum may depict her. A Roman festival was held in her honor on January 11, when she was given sacrifices and honored by the \"fontani\" (the men who maintained the fountains and aqueducts of Rome).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1805832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1805832", "title": "Kilocalorie per mole", "text": "Kilocalorie per mole\n\nThe kilocalorie per mole is a unit to measure an amount of energy per number of molecules, atoms, or other similar particles. It is defined as one kilocalorie of energy (1000 thermochemical gram calories) per one mole of substance, that is, per Avogadro’s number of particles. It is abbreviated \"kcal/mol\" or \"kcal mol\". As typically measured, one kcal/mol represents a temperature increase of one degree Celsius in one liter of water (with a mass of 1kg) resulting from the reaction of one mole of reagents.\n\nIn SI units, one kilocalorie per mole is equal to 4.184 kilojoules per mole, or joules per molecule, or 0.043 eV per molecule. At room temperature (25 °C, 77 °F, or 298.15 K) it is equal to 1.688 units in the \"kT\" term of Boltzmann's equation.\n\nEven though it is not an SI unit, the kilocalorie per mole is still widely used in chemistry for thermodynamical quantities such as thermodynamic free energy, heat of vaporization, heat of fusion and ionization energy, due to the ease with which it can be calculated based on the units of measure typically employed in quantifying a chemical reaction, especially in aqueous solution. Typically but not exclusively, kcal/mol are used in the United States, whereas kJ/mol are preferred elsewhere.\n"}
{"id": "961677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=961677", "title": "Krytron", "text": "Krytron\n\nThe krytron is a cold-cathode gas-filled tube intended for use as a very high-speed switch, somewhat similar to the thyratron. It consists of a sealed glass tube with four electrodes. A small triggering pulse on the grid electrode switches the tube on, allowing a large current to flow between the cathode and anode electrodes. The vacuum version is called a vacuum krytron, or sprytron. The krytron was one of the earliest developments of the EG&G Corporation.\n\nUnlike most other gas switching tubes, the krytron conducts by means of an arc discharge, to handle very high voltages and currents (reaching several kilovolts and several kiloamperes), rather than the low-current glow discharge used in other thyratrons. The krytron is a development of the triggered spark gaps and thyratrons originally developed for radar transmitters during World War II.\n\nThe gas used in krytrons is hydrogen; noble gases (usually krypton), or a Penning mixture can also be used.\n\nA krytron has four electrodes. Two are a conventional anode and cathode. One is a keep-alive electrode, arranged to be close to the cathode. The keep-alive has a low positive voltage applied, which causes a small area of gas to ionize near the cathode. High voltage is applied to the anode, but primary conduction does not occur until a positive pulse is applied to the trigger electrode (\"Grid\" in the image above). Once started, arc conduction carries a considerable current.\n\nThe fourth is a control grid, usually wrapped around the anode, except for a small opening on its top.\n\nIn place of or in addition to the keep-alive electrode some krytrons may contain a very tiny amount of radioactive material (usually less than of nickel-63), which emits beta particles (high-speed electrons) to make ionization easier. The radiation source serves to increase the reliability of ignition and formation of the keep-alive electrode discharge.\n\nThe gas filling provides ions for neutralizing the space charge and allowing high currents at lower voltage. The keep-alive discharge populates the gas with ions, forming a preionized plasma; this can shorten the arc formation time by 3–4 orders of magnitude in comparison with non-preionized tubes, as time does not have to be spent on ionizing the medium during formation of the arc path.\n\nThe electric arc is self-sustaining; once the tube is triggered, it conducts until the arc is interrupted by the current falling too low for too long (under 10 milliamperes for more than 100 microseconds for the KN22 krytrons).\n\nKrytrons and sprytrons are triggered by a high voltage from a capacitor discharge via a trigger transformer, in a similar way flashtubes for e.g. photoflash applications are triggered. Devices integrating a krytron with a trigger transformer are available.\n\nA sprytron, also known as vacuum krytron or triggered vacuum switch (TVS), is a vacuum, rather than gas-filled, version. It is designed for use in environments with high levels of ionizing radiation, which might trigger a gas-filled krytron spuriously. It is also more immune to electromagnetic interference than gas filled tubes.\n\nSprytrons lack the keepalive electrode and the preionization radioactive source. The trigger pulse must be stronger than for a krytron. Sprytrons are able to handle higher currents; krytrons tend to be used for triggering a secondary switch, e.g., a triggered spark gap, while sprytrons are usually connected directly to the load.\n\nThe trigger pulse has to be much more intense, as there is no preionized gas path for the electric current, and a vacuum arc must form between the cathode and anode. An arc first forms between the cathode and the grid, then a breakdown occurs between the cathode–grid conductive region and the anode.\n\nSprytrons are evacuated to hard vacuum, typically 0.001 Pa. As kovar and other metals are somewhat permeable for hydrogen, especially during the 600 °C bake-out before evacuation and sealing, all external metal surfaces have to be plated with thick (25 micrometers or more) layer of soft gold. The same metallization is used for other switch tubes as well.\n\nSprytrons are often designed similar to trigatrons, with the trigger electrode coaxial to the cathode. In one design the trigger electrode is formed as metallization on the inner surface of an alumina tube. The trigger pulse causes surface flashover, which liberates electrons and vaporized surface discharge material into the inter-electrode gap, which facilitates formation of a vacuum arc, closing the switch. The short switching time suggests electrons from the trigger discharge and the corresponding secondary electrons knocked from the anode as the initiation of the switching operation; the vaporized material travels too slowly through the gap to play significant role. The repeatability of the triggering can be improved by special coating of the surface between the trigger electrode and the cathode, and the jitter can be improved by doping the trigger substrate and modifying the trigger probe structures. Sprytrons can degrade in storage, by outgassing from their components, diffusion of gases (especially hydrogen) through the metal components, and gas leaks through the hermetic seals; an example tube manufactured with internal pressure of 0.001 Pa will exhibit spontaneous gap breakdowns when the pressure inside rises to 1 Pa. Accelerated testing of storage life can be done by storing in increased ambient pressure, optionally with added helium, for leak testing, and increased temperature storage (150 °C) for outgassing testing. Sprytrons can be made miniaturized and rugged.\n\nSprytrons can be also triggered by a laser pulse. In 1999 the laser pulse energy needed to trigger a sprytron was reduced to 10 microjoules.\n\nSprytrons are usually manufactured as rugged metal/ceramic parts. They typically have low inductance (10 nanohenries) and low electrical resistance when switched on (10–30 milliohms). After triggering, just before the sprytron switches fully on in avalanche mode, it briefly becomes slightly conductive (100–200 amperes); high-power MOSFET transistors operating in avalanche mode show similar behavior. SPICE models for sprytrons are available.\n\nThis design, dating from the late 1940s, is still capable of pulse-power performance that even the most advanced semiconductors (even IGBTs) cannot match easily. Krytrons and sprytrons are capable of handling high-current high-voltage pulses, with very fast switching times, and constant, low jitter time delay between application of the trigger pulse and switching on.\n\nKrytrons can switch currents of up to about 3000 amperes and voltages up to about 5000 volts. Commutation time of less than 1 nanosecond can be achieved, with a delay between the application of the trigger pulse and switching as low as about 30 nanoseconds. The achievable jitter may be below 5 nanoseconds. The required trigger pulse voltage is about 200–2000 volts; higher voltages decrease the switching delay to some degree. Commutation time can be somewhat shortened by increasing the trigger pulse rise time. A given krytron tube will give very consistent performance to identical trigger pulses (low jitter). The keep-alive current ranges from tens to hundreds of microamperes. The pulse repetition rate can range from one per minute to tens of thousands per minute.\n\nSwitching performance is largely independent of the environment (temperature, acceleration, vibration, etc.). However, the formation of the keep-alive glow discharge is more sensitive, which necessitates the use of a radioactive source to aid its ignition.\n\nKrytrons have a limited lifetime, ranging, according to type, typically from tens of thousands to tens of millions of switching operations, and sometimes only a few hundreds.\n\nSprytrons have somewhat faster switching times than krytrons.\n\nHydrogen-filled thyratrons may be used as a replacement in some applications.\n\nKrytrons and their variations are manufactured by Perkin-Elmer Components and used in a variety of industrial and military devices. They are best known for their use in igniting exploding-bridgewire and slapper detonators in nuclear weapons, their original application, either directly (sprytrons are usually used for this) or by triggering higher-power spark gap switches. They are also used to trigger thyratrons, large flashlamps in photocopiers, lasers and scientific apparatus, and for firing ignitors for industrial explosives.\n\nBecause of their potential for use as triggers of nuclear weapons, the export of krytrons is tightly regulated in the United States. A number of cases involving the smuggling or attempted smuggling of krytrons have been reported, as countries seeking to develop nuclear weapons have attempted to procure supplies of krytrons for igniting their weapons. One prominent case was that of , who allegedly helped Arnon Milchan smuggle 15 orders of 810 krytrons total to Israel. 469 of these were returned to America, with Israel claiming the remaining 341 were \"destroyed in testing\".\n\nKrytrons and sprytrons handling voltages of 2,500 V and above, currents of 100 A and above, and switching delays of under 10 microseconds are typically suitable for nuclear weapon triggers.\n\nA krytron was the \"MacGuffin\" in Roman Polanski's 1988 film \"Frantic\". The device in the film was either a high-tech updated version or simply a fictionalized version made up for the story. \n\nThe krytron, incorrectly called a \"kryton\", also appeared in the Tom Clancy nuclear terrorism novel \"The Sum of All Fears\".\n\nThe plot of Larry Collins' book \"The Road to Armageddon\" revolved heavily around American-made krytrons that Iranian mullahs wanted for three Russian nuclear artillery shells they had hoped to upgrade to full nuclear weapons.\n\nThe term \"krytron\" appeared in the season 3, episode 14 of the television drama \"Person of Interest\".\n\nIn Season 3 of NCIS episode \"Kill Ari, Part 2\", it was revealed that Ari Haswari, a rogue Mossad operative, had been tasked with acquiring a krytron trigger. Along with stolen plutonium from Dimona, these were key components for an Israeli sting operation. The krytron was also incorrectly called a \"kryton\".\n\nOptically triggered solid-state switches based on diamond are a potential candidate for krytron replacement.\n\nCBS/Hytron second source documentation:\n\n"}
{"id": "36108420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36108420", "title": "Kunlun (mythology)", "text": "Kunlun (mythology)\n\nThe Kunlun () or Kunlun Shan is a mountain or mountain range in Chinese mythology, an important symbol representing the \"axis mundi\" and divinity.\n\nThe mythological Kunlun is based partially on the Kailash temple and partially on the Kunlun Mountains of the Tibetan Plateau. Different locations of the Kunlun have been given in the various legends, myths, and semi-historical accounts in which it appears. These accounts typically describe Kunlun as the dwelling place of various gods and goddesses, where fabled plants and mythical creatures may also be found. Many important events in Chinese mythology took place on the Kunlun.\n\nAs the mythology related to the Kunlun developed, it became influenced by the later introduction of ideas about an \"axis mundi\" from the cosmology of India. The Kunlun became identified with (or took on the attributes of) Mount Sumeru.\n\nAnother historical development in the mythology of Kunlun, (again with Indian influence) was that rather than just being the source of the Yellow River, Kunlun began to be considered to be the source of four major rivers flowing to the four quarters of the compass.\n\nThe Kunlun mythos was also influenced by developments within the Taoist tradition, and Kunlun came to be perceived more as a paradise than a dangerous wilderness.\n\nSome recent research proposed that over time, the merging of various traditions has result in a duality of paradises – an East Paradise (identified with Mount Penglai) and a West Paradise, with Kunlun Mountain identified as the West Paradise. A pole replaced a former mythic system which opposed Penglai with Guixu (\"Returning Mountain\"), and the Guixu mythological material was transferred to the Kunlun mythos.\n\nThe Chinese name \"Kunlun\" 崑崙 (or 崐崘) is written with characters combining the \"mountain radical\" 山 with phonetics of \"kun\" 昆 and \"lun\" 侖. Alternate names for \"Kunlun shan\" include Kunling 崑陵 (with \"hill\") and Kunqiu 崑丘 (with \"mound\").\n\nThe term \"Kunlun\" may be semantically related to two other terms: \"Hundun\" (), which is sometimes personified as a living creature; and \"kongdong\" (), according to Kristofer Schipper. Grotto-heavens were traditionally associated with mountains, as hollows or caves located in/on certain mountains. The term \"Kunlun Mountain\" can be translated as \"Cavernous Mountain\": and, the mythological Kunlun mountain has been viewed as a hollow mountain (located directly under the Pole star).\n\nThe term \"Kunlun\" however had also been used in old texts to refer to people and places unrelated to the mythical mountain. It was, for example, used to transcribe the southern people called \"Gurong\", who were slaves in China. Edward H. Schafer quotes the \"Old Book of Tang\" description. \"They are also called Kurung. They are the barbarous men of the islands, great and small, of the Southern Seas. They are very black, and expose their naked Figures. They can tame and cow ferocious beasts, rhinoceroses, elephants, and the like.\" Schafer notes that besides \"Kunlun\", these southerners were occasionally written \"Gulong\" 古龍 or \"Gulun\" 骨論.\n\nJulie Wilensky notes that the term \"Kunlun\" is a \"mysterious and poorly understood word first applied to dark-skinned Chinese and then expanded over time to encompass multiple meanings, all connoting dark skin.\" But then she goes on to say, \"These uses of kunlun are unrelated to the name of the Kunlun Mountains.\" And in a footnote to this, \" Chang Hsing-Iang writes that the Kunlun mountain 'region has been familiar to the Chinese from the earliest times, and no Chinese work has ever described its inhabitants as being black-skinned.'\" She then goes on to say how \"Kunlun\" was used to refer to places in Southeast Asia and Africa.\n\nVarious ideas of the location of the mythical Kunlun Mountain have been given: chapter eleven of the \"Shanhaijing\" describes it as being in the northwest, chapter sixteen says it is south of the western sea, and other sources place it in the center of the earth.\n\nSome believed Kunlun to be located to the \"far\" west, in this case the alleged location was relocated further and further to the west, along with advances in geographical knowledge. E. T. C. Werner identifies Kunlun with the Hindu Kush mountain range.\n\nAt times, the mythical Kunlun Mountain has been confused with the modern Kunlun Mountains and with Kurung (or \"Kurung Bnam\", possibly meaning \"Kings of the Mountain\" in Old Khmer (formerly known as Old Cambodian), and equivalent to the Sanskrit \"Śailarāja\", also meaning \"Kings of the Mountain\", referring to a mythical holy cosmic mountain. Kurung (Kunlun) is known to have flourished during the time of the Tang dynasty, and seems to have developed ambassadorial relations with the Tang court, by the time of Li He (790–816), who records a visit in one of his extent poems: although geographical specifics of the state of Kunlun's location(s) remain uncertain, it is associated with trans-Gangetic India, possibly the Malay peninsula or areas controlled by the Sailendra thalassocracy.\n\nKunlun Mountain has been described in various texts, as well as being depicted in art. Sometimes Kunlun appears as a pillar of the sky (or earth), sometimes appearing as being composed of multiple tiers, with the commonality of \"mystery, grandeur, or magnificence\" being emphasized in the mythological descriptions. The base of the Kunlun Mountain is said to penetrate as far into the earth, as its above-ground part proceeds towards the sky.\n\nGenerally, accounts emphasize the difficulty of access to the mountain and even more to its more hallowed places, due to surrounding waters and steep cliffs of immense heights. Kunlun typically also has a strong association with various means to obtain immortality, or longevity. Poetic descriptions tend to lavish Kunlun with paradisaical detail: gem-like rocks and towering cliffs of jasper and jade, exotic jeweled plants, bizarrely formed and colored magical fungi, and numerous birds and other animals, together with humans who have become immortal beings. Sometimes it is the Eight Immortals who are seen, coming to pay their respects to the goddess Xiwangmu, perhaps invited to join her in a feast of immortal repast. This is the well-worn image or motif that is frequently painted, carved, or otherwise depicted in the material arts.\n\nKunlun is believed to be the representation of the Supreme Deity (\"Taidi\"). According to some sources, his throne is at the top tier of the mountain and known as the \"Palace of Heaven\". As Kunlun was sometimes viewed as the pillar holding up the sky and keeping it separated from the earth, some accounts place the top of Kunlun in Heaven rather than locating it as part of the earth: in this case the Supreme Deity's abode on Kunlun is actually in Heaven, and Kunlun functions as a sort of ladder which could be used to travel between earth and Heaven. Accordingly, any person who succeeded in climbing up to the top of Kunlun would magically become an immortal spirit.\n\nAlthough not originally located on Kunlun, but rather on a Jade Mountain neighboring to the north (and west of the Moving Sands), Xiwangmu, the Queen Mother of Meng Hao in the West, in later accounts was relocated to a palace protected by golden ramparts, within which immortals (xian) feasted on bear paws, monkey lips, and the livers of dragons, served at the edge of the Lake of Gems. Every 6000 years the peaches which conferred immortality upon those who ate them would be served (except the time when they were purloined by Monkey King). Originally a plague deity with tiger teeth and leopard tail, she became a beautiful and well-mannered goddess responsible for guarding the herb of immortality.\n\nYu Shi, a Chinese spirit or god of rain, also known as the \"Lord of Rain\" or \"Leader of Rain\" is thought to have his dwelling place upon the Kunlun slopes. During the reign of Shennong, a certain Chisongzi (Master Red Pine) performed a rain-making ceremony which successfully ended a terrible drought, leading to his promotion to \"Yu Shi\", \"Master of Rain\".\n\nAccording to the \"Shanhaijing\", the top of Kunlun is the habitation of shamans, depicting Wu Peng holding the herb of immortality there, in the company of five other shamans.\n\nIn later tradition Kunlun was pictured as a Daoist paradise, inhabited by \"xian\", or Daoist immortals (humans who had metamorphosed into superhuman form), which was presided over by Xiwangmu. The \"xian\" were often seen as temporary residents, who visited by means of flying on the back of a magical crane or dragon.\n\nKunlun has a lively bestiary, with various more-or-less fantastic beasts and birds described as present in its environs. Often the tiger or beings with tiger-like features are associated with Kunlun, since the tiger is symbolic of the west, as Kunlun is often associated with the Western Paradise. Creatures symbolic of immortality are often seen or described in depictions of Kunlun, such as deer or cranes. Xiwangmu is often identified as having a pet spotted deer. Besides the cranes (traditionally thought of as the mounts or the transformations of immortals), other birds come and go from the mountain, flying errands for Xiwangmu: these blue (or green) birds are her qingniao. Sometimes the poets claim to have received a happy inspiration during a visit by one of these birds, carrying a message from Xiwangmu.\n\nThe flora of Kunlun and its environs is in keeping with the rest of its natural (and supernatural qualities), and includes the Pearl and Jade Trees, the Tree of Immortality, and Tree Grain, the last of which (\"Muhe\") was forty feet in height and five spans in thickness. Peaches are (and have been) often associated with Xiwangmu The \"langgan\" was a tree of fairy gems in colours of blue or green, which was reported to grow on Kunlun in the classic books of the Zhou and early Han dynasties.\n\nKunlun is described as having various structures, areas, or significant features either on or around the area of the mountain. The palace of Xiwangmu, sometimes described as having golden ramparts, was located on Kunlun: those blessed to gather there might partake of the fruit of longevity. Often her palace is described as having a park or garden, bordering a Jasper Pool. Of gardens, a (the) Hanging Garden was referenced early on.\n\nFour rivers were sometimes said to flow out of Kunlun Mountain: the Red River (Chishui, 赤水), the Yellow River, the Black River (黑水, black water), and the Yang River (Yang 2005: 161). A fifth river was said to flow around the base of Kunlun, which rose in a way which was particularly steep and hard to climb. This Weak River at the base of Kunlun flowed with a liquid so lacking in density that not even a feather could float upon it. This was a major obstacle, since it could neither be swum or floated over on a vessel (Yang 2005: 162, 219). However, this was an obstacle routinely overcome by those practiced in the way of magic (Daoist or shamanic). Two examples of those who overcame were Sun Wukong (\"Journey to the West\") or Qu Yuan in his poem (\"Li Sao\"), both already on the path to immortality, one as a god and the other as a poet. Another barrier to Kunlun were the dangerous and difficult-to-cross Moving Sands, also known as Flowing Sands or Liusha. According to \"Shanhaijing\" (Chapter 16), Kunlun was located south of the West Sea, behind the Red River, and on the shore of Liusha (Yang 2005: 162, 219).\n\nKunlun Mountain is a major scene of action in various myths, as well as literary works derived from the myths, legends, or religious descriptions or depictions.\n\nFuxi and Nuwa's marriage took place on the mountain of Kunlun. Generally held to be brother and sister, and the last surviving human beings after a catastrophic flood, the incest taboo was waived by an explicit sign after prayerful questioning of a divine being who approved their marriage and thus the repopulation of the world.\n\nMu son of Heaven is one visitor, carried along on his trip by eight extraordinary mounts, depicted in art as \"weird and unworldly\".\n\nMany important literary references and allusions to Kunlun Mountain are found in traditional works, including famous novels, poems, and theatrical pieces. It also appears in modern popular fictions.\n\nAmong other literature, Kunlun Mountain appears in \"Fengshen Yanyi\", \"Legend of the White Snake\", the \"Tale of King Mu, Son of Heaven\", \"Kunlun Nu\", and \"Journey to the West\" (also known as \"Monkey\").\n\nThe Kunlun Slave (slave from Kunlun) was a stock character in Chinese theater, and known in Japanese theater \"Konron\". He was portrayed as exotic in appearance, and possessed of superhuman powers. Mei Dingzuo (1549-1615) wrote a play \"How the Kunlun Slave Became an Immortal\".\n\nKunlun Mountain is a subject of poetic allusion from the ancient poems \"Li Sao\" and \"Heavenly Questions\" by Qu Yuan, through frequent mentions in the medieval Tang dynasty poetry, and, in the twentieth century in Mao Zedong's 1935 poem \"Kunlun\".\n\nKunlun is used in the manga \"3×3 Eyes\". The term, written as K'un-Lun, is also used in the story of the Iron Fist in Marvel Comics as one of the seven Capital Cities of Heaven in the Marvel Universe that only appears on Earth periodically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1081235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1081235", "title": "Lava dome", "text": "Lava dome\n\nIn volcanology, a lava dome or volcanic dome is a roughly circular mound-shaped protrusion resulting from the slow extrusion of viscous lava from a volcano. Dome-building eruptions are common, particularly in convergent plate boundary settings. Around 6% of eruptions on earth are lava dome forming. The geochemistry of lava domes can vary from basalt (e.g. Semeru, 1946) to rhyolite (e.g. Chaiten, 2010) although the majority are of intermediate composition (such as Santiaguito, dacite-andesite, present day) The characteristic dome shape is attributed to high viscosity that prevents the lava from flowing very far. This high viscosity can be obtained in two ways: by high levels of silica in the magma, or by degassing of fluid magma. Since viscous basaltic and andesitic domes weather fast and easily break apart by further input of fluid lava, most of the preserved domes have high silica content and consist of rhyolite or dacite.\n\nExistence of lava domes has been suggested for some domed structures on the Moon, Venus and Mars e.g. the Martian surface in the western part of Arcadia Planitia and within Terra Sirenum.\n\nLava domes evolve unpredictably, due to non-linear dynamics caused by crystallization and outgassing of the highly viscous lava in the dome's conduit. Domes undergo various processes such as growth, collapse, solidification and erosion.\n\nLava domes grow by endogenic dome growth or exogenic dome growth. The former implies the enlargement of a lava dome due to the influx of magma into the dome interior, and the latter refers to discrete lobes of lava emplaced upon the surface of the dome It is the high viscosity of the lava that prevents it from flowing far from the vent from which it extrudes, creating a dome-like shape of sticky lava that then cools slowly in-situ. Spines and lava flows are common extrusive products of lava domes. Domes may reach heights of several hundred meters, and can grow slowly and steadily for months (e.g. Unzen volcano), years (e.g. Soufrière Hills volcano), or even centuries (e.g. Mount Merapi volcano). The sides of these structures are composed of unstable rock debris. Due to the intermittent buildup of gas pressure, erupting domes can often experience episodes of explosive eruption over time. If part of a lava dome collapses and exposes pressurized magma, pyroclastic flows can be produced. Other hazards associated with lava domes are the destruction of property from lava flows, forest fires, and lahars triggered from re-mobilization of loose ash and debris. Lava domes are one of the principal structural features of many stratovolcanoes worldwide. Lava domes are prone to unusually dangerous explosions since they can contain rhyolitic silica-rich lava.\n\nCharacteristics of lava dome eruptions include shallow, long-period and hybrid seismicity, which is attributed to excess fluid pressures in the contributing vent chamber. Other characteristics of lava domes include their hemispherical dome shape, cycles of dome growth over long periods, and sudden onsets of violent explosive activity. The average rate of dome growth may be used as a rough indicator of magma supply, but it shows no systematic relationship to the timing or characteristics of lava dome explosions.\n\nGravitational collapse of a lava dome can produce a block and ash flow.\n\nA cryptodome (from Greek κρυπτός, \"kryptos\", \"hidden, secret\") is a dome-shaped structure created by accumulation of viscous magma at a shallow depth. One example of a cryptodome was in the May 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens, where the explosive eruption began after a landslide caused the side of the volcano to fall, leading to explosive decompression of the subterranean cryptodome.\n\nCoulées (or coulees) are lava domes that have experienced some flow away from their original position, thus resembling both lava domes and lava flows.\n\nThe world's largest known dacite flow is the Chao dacite dome complex, a huge coulée flow-dome between two volcanoes in northern Chile. This flow is over long, has obvious flow features like pressure ridges, and a flow front tall (the dark scalloped line at lower left). There is another prominent coulée flow on the flank of Llullaillaco volcano, in Argentina, and other examples in the Andes.\n\n"}
{"id": "41843579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41843579", "title": "Liquefied natural gas terminal", "text": "Liquefied natural gas terminal\n\nLiquefied natural gas terminal is a structure for liquefied natural gas to store. It can comprise special tanks, ships or even building structures. Port infrastructures and pipelines are also a part of LNG terminals.\n\nLiquefied natural gas is the form used to transport natural gas over long distances, often by sea. In most cases, LNG terminals are purpose-built ports used exclusively to export or import LNG.\n\nLiquefied natural gas terminals can be divided into two types: liquefaction terminals (export) and or receiving terminals (import).\n\nA floating storage and regasification unit, or FSRU for short, is an LNG terminal whose main structure is a special ship that is moored next to the port. As of January 2014 there are operating FSRUs in Brazil, Argentina, Kuwait, Israel, the UAE, Italy, Indonesia, China and Lithuania.\n\n"}
{"id": "9013435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9013435", "title": "List of bleeding heart diseases", "text": "List of bleeding heart diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of bleeding hearts (\"Clerodendrum thomsoniae\").\n\n"}
{"id": "9019666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9019666", "title": "List of geranium diseases", "text": "List of geranium diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of geraniums (\"Pelargonium\").\n\n"}
{"id": "5205784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5205784", "title": "List of largest universities and university networks by enrollment", "text": "List of largest universities and university networks by enrollment\n\nThis list of largest universities by enrollment in the world includes total active enrollment across all campuses, as well as off-campus study. The enrollment numbers listed are the sum of undergraduate and graduate students in active enrollment. The universities included below confer degrees of bachelor-level or higher, and either share a central board of governance and a single chancellor or president, or confer degrees with the same institution name.\n\nMany of these universities, particularly those in the United States, are actually systems of separate university campuses, and may not accurately represent a comparable student body. For example, the enrollment listed for the University of California is the population of the entire student body in the University of California system, which is composed of several individual campuses statewide. All University of California campuses are entitled \"University of California\" and then denoted further by the campus location, such as \"University of California, Irvine\". Other states organize their public universities differently in ways that further complicate any direct comparisons.\n\n"}
{"id": "46877679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46877679", "title": "List of mountains in Colombia", "text": "List of mountains in Colombia\n\n"}
{"id": "6234567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6234567", "title": "List of national parks in the Alps", "text": "List of national parks in the Alps\n\nThis is a list of national parks in the Alps.\n"}
{"id": "5102676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5102676", "title": "List of rivers of Estonia", "text": "List of rivers of Estonia\n\nRivers of Estonia are short and mostly have small discharge. Only 10 rivers are longer than 100 km. The largest river is Narva (length 77 km) on the Estonian-Russian border, whose average discharge is larger than that of all other rivers combined.\n\nAavoja \n- Agali\n- Ahja \n- Alajõgi \n- Allika\n- Ambla\n- Amme \n- Angerja stream\n- Antsla\n- Apna\n- Ärma\n- Aruküla\n- Atla\n- Audru\n- Avaste stream\n- Avijõgi\n\nEmajõgi\n- Elbu \n- Elva \n- Enge \n- Ema \n- Esna\n\nGorodenka\n\nHäädemeeste\n- Haavakivi\n- Halliste \n- Härjapea \n- Harku stream\n- Helme\n- Hilba\n- Humalaste\n- Hundikuristiku stream\n- Hüüru\n\nJaama (Struuga)\n- Jägala \n- Jänijõgi\n- Järveotsa stream\n- Jõelähtme\n- Jõku\n- Jurga stream \n- Juudaoja\n\nKääpa \n- Kalita stream\n- Kalli \n- Kargaja\n- Kärla \n- Käru\n- Kasari \n- Kata\n- Katku stream\n- Kavilda\n- Keila \n- Kloostri\n- Kodila\n- Kohtra \n- Kolga\n- Kolga stream\n- Kõpu\n- Koosa\n- Kroodi stream\n- Kuivajõgi\n- Kuke\n- Külge stream\n- Kulgu\n- Kullavere \n- Kunda \n- Kurina\n- Kurna stream\n- Kuura\n\nLaatre\n- Laeva\n- Lahavere stream\n- Lähkma\n- Leevi\n- Leisi\n- Lemmejõgi \n- Lemmjõgi \n- Liivi \n- Lintsi \n- Lodja stream\n- Loo\n- Loobu \n- Lõve\n- Luguse \n- Luutsna\n\nMaadevahe\n- Mädajõgi\n- Mädara\n- Mähe stream\n- Maidla\n- Massu\n- Mõra\n- Munalaskme stream \n- Mustajõgi \n- Mustjõgi (Endla) \n- Mustjõgi (Gauja basin) \n- Mustjõgi (Jägala basin) \n- Mustjõgi (Tallinn) \n- Mustoja (Lahemaa)\n- Mustvee\n- Muuga stream\n\nNahavere stream\n- Naravere stream\n- Narva \n- Nasva \n- Nõva\n- Nurtu \n- Navesti\n- Nuutri\n\nÕhne \n- onga\n- Orajõgi\n\nPaadrema \n- Paala\n- Pääsküla\n- Pada \n- Pala\n- Pale\n- Paltra\n- Pärlijõgi\n- Pärnu\n- Pede \n- Pedeli\n- Pedja \n- Peeda\n- Peetri\n- Penijõgi\n- Piigaste stream\n- Piilsi\n- Pikknurme\n- Pirita \n- Piusa \n- Põduste \n- Põltsamaa \n- Porijõgi\n- Poruni \n- Prandi\n- Preedi\n- Pühajõgi (Ida-Virumaa)\n- Pühajõgi (Saaremaa)\n- Punapea\n- Purtse\n\nRaasiku (Jõelähtme)\n- Rannametsa\n- Rannamõisa \n- Rannapungerja\n- Räpu \n- Raudna\n- Reiu\n- Reopalu\n- Retla\n- Riguldi\n\nSaarjõgi\n- Saki\n- Saku (Vääna)\n- Salajõgi \n- Salla\n- Salme\n- Sämi\n- Sauga \n- Selja \n- Sigaste stream\n- Sillaorsa\n- Sitapätsi\n- Sõmeru\n- Soodla \n- Sõtke\n- Struuga (Jaama)\n- Surju stream\n- Surjupera stream\n- Suuremõisa\n\nTaebla\n- Tagajõgi \n- Tänassilma\n- Tarvastu\n- Tatra\n- Teenuse\n- Timmkanal \n- Tirtsi\n- Tiskre stream \n- Tõdva\n- Tõlla stream\n- Toolse\n- Topi\n- Tori\n- Tõrvajõgi\n- Tõrvanõmme stream\n- Tõstamaa\n- Treppoja \n- Tuhala\n- Tuudi\n\nUlila\n- Umbusi \n- Ura\n- Uueveski stream\n- Uruste Oja\n\nVääna \n- Vaemla \n- Vaidava\n- Väike Emajõgi \n- Vainupea\n- Valgejõgi \n- Valuoja\n- Vändra\n- Vara stream\n- Vardi\n- Vardja\n- Varsaallika stream\n- Värska stream \n- Vasalemma \n- Vaskjõgi\n- Veelikse stream\n- Velise\n- Vigala \n- Vihterpalu \n- Visela\n- Visula\n- Vodja\n- Võhandu \n- Võhkse\n- Võhu\n- Võlupe\n- Vorsti\n- Võsu\n\n"}
{"id": "216239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216239", "title": "List of rivers of Russia", "text": "List of rivers of Russia\n\nRussia can be divided into a European and an Asian part. The dividing line is generally considered to be the Ural Mountains and the Caspian Sea. The European part is drained into the Arctic Ocean, Baltic Sea, Black Sea, and Caspian Sea. The Asian part is drained into the Arctic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean.\n\nNotable rivers of Russia in Europe are the Volga, Don, Kama, Oka and the Northern Dvina, while several other rivers originate in Russia but flow into other countries, such as the Dniepr and the Western Dvina.\n\nIn Asia, important rivers are the Ob, the Irtysh, the Yenisey, the Angara, the Lena, the Amur, the Yana, the Indigirka, and the Kolyma.\n\nIn the list below, the rivers are grouped by the seas or oceans into which they flow. Rivers that flow into other rivers are ordered by the proximity of their point of confluence to the mouth of the main river, i.e., the lower in the list, the more upstream.\n\nThere is an alphabetical list of rivers at the end of this article. \nThe rivers in this section are sorted east to west.\n\nThe rivers in this section are sorted south-west to north-east.\n\nThe rivers in this section are sorted west to east.\n\nThe rivers in this section are sorted west to east.\n\nThe rivers in this section are sorted west to east.\n\nThe rivers in this section are sorted north to south.\n\n\nAbakan, Alazeya, Aldan, Aley, Amga, Amur, Anabar, Anadyr, Angara River, Angrapa, Anyuy (Kolyma), Anyuy (Amur), Argun, Avacha, Barguzin, Bashkaus, Belaya, Berezayka, Bityug, Biya, Bolshaya Belaya, Bolshaya Pyora (Amur Oblast), Bolshaya Pyora (Komi Republic), Buotama (Sakha Republic), Bureya, Chagoda, Chebdar, Cheptsa, Chernaya, Chulym (Ob), Chulyshman, Chusovaya, Daugava/Western Dvina, Dep, Desna, Dnieper/Dnipro, Don, (Seversky) Donets, Dubna, El'duga\n\nIlek, Indigirka, Ingoda, Instruch, Iokanga, Irkut, Irtysh, Iset, Ishim, Istra, Izhora, Kama, Kamchatka, Kashinka, Kasplya, Katanga, Katun, Kazanka, Kerzhenets, Ket, Khatanga, Kheta, Khopyor, Kirenga, Klyazma, Kolva (Usa), Kolva (Vishera), Kolyma, Kondurcha, Kosovka, Kosovoy, Kostroma, Kotorosl, Kotuy, Kozhim, Krasnaya River, Kuban, Kubr, Kuma, Kunya, Laba, Lama, Lava/Łyna, Lena, Lovat, Lower Tunguska, Luga\n\nMalka, Manych, Maya, Mezen, Mga, Miass, Mius, Moksha, Mologa, Moskva, Msta, Mulyanka, Nadym, Nara, Narva, Neglinnaya, Nemunas/Neman, Nercha, Nerl (Klyazma), Nerl (Volga), Neva, Niva, Northern Dvina, Nyuya, Ob, Oka (Volga), Oka (Angara River), Olenyok, Olyokma, Om, Omolon, Onega, Onon, Oredezh, Osuga, Oyat, Pakhra, Pasha, Parabel, Pechora, Pinega, Pissa, Plava, Podkamennaya Tunguska, Podkumok, Pola, Polist, Polota, Ponoy, Pra, Pregolya, Protva, Pur, Pyasina, Ravan, Ruza, Sakmara, Sal, Samara, Seim, Selemdzha, Selenga, Sestra River (Leningrad Oblast), Sestra River (Dubna), Šešupė, Setun, Sheksna, Shelon, Shilka, Shosha, Sudost, Sukhona, Sura, Svir, Sviyaga, Syas, Sylva\n\nTavda, Tara, Taz, Terek, Tetere, Teza, Tigoda, Tobol, Tom (Ob), Tom (Zeya), Tosna, Tsna River (Moksha basin), Tsna River (Tver Oblast), Tugur, Tumen, Tura, Turukhan, Tvertsa, Tym, Tyung, Uda (Buryatia), Uda (Khabarovsk Krai), Ufa, Uftyuga, Ugra, Unzha, Upa, Upper Angara River, Ural, Usa, Ussuri, Uver, Uzola, Vaga, Vakh, Valdayka, Varzuga, Vasyugan, Velikaya, Vetluga, Vilyuy, Vishera (Volkhov), Vishera (Vychegda), Vishera (Kama), Vitim, Volchya (Vuoksi), Volga, Volkhov, Vologda, Voronezh, Voronya, Vuoksi, Vyatka, Vyazma, Vychegda, Vytegra, Yana, Yauza, Yegoshikha, Yomtsa, Yenisei, Yug, Yuryuzan, Zeya\n"}
{"id": "9017893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9017893", "title": "List of sorghum diseases", "text": "List of sorghum diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of sorghum (\"Sorghum bicolor\").\n\n"}
{"id": "41654304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41654304", "title": "Margaret Hutchinson", "text": "Margaret Hutchinson\n\nMargaret Massey Hutchinson (1904–1997) was an English educator, naturalist and author. Hutchinson was closely involved with Haslemere Educational Museum which was founded by her grandfather Sir Jonathan Hutchinson and she established and ran a Froebel school in West Sussex for 25 years.\n\nShe was a lifelong observer of nature, including a specialist study of plant galls, and had a particular interest in the education of children in the context of the natural world.\n\nMargaret Hutchinson was born on 18 December 1904 into a large Quaker family in Haslemere, Surrey, the fifth of nine children of Herbert Hutchinson and Elizabeth (Ella) Woods. Herbert's father was Sir Jonathan Hutchinson FRS, the eminent surgeon, to whom Margaret was also related on her mother's side.\n\nHer early years were spent in an extremely rural environment where she developed a deep understanding of, and love for the natural world, something that would be a feature of her writing and teaching life. She described these first years in detail in her biography \"A Childhood in Edwardian Sussex: The making of a naturalist\".\n\nIn 1931 Froebel-trained Hutchinson opened Yafflesmead School at the family home in Kingsley Green, near Haslemere, in which for 25 years she provided a Froebel \"Kindergarten\" education for boys and girls between 1931 and 1955. Close friend and editor Penny Hollow wrote:\nDavid Kynaston quoted a parent in his book \"Austerity Britain\": \n\nA serious naturalist but with a keen sense of fun Margaret Hutchinson included the study of nature in all her teaching. Her first book \"Children as Naturalists\" was published in 1947 and gained her a wider reputation; the book sold for over 30 years and was favourably reviewed in \"Nature\", the scientific journal.\n\nDr Evelyn Lawrence, Director of the National Froebel Foundation, said in her foreword to \"Children as Naturalists\":\n\nYafflesmead School closed in 1955 so that Hutchinson could care for her aged parents and was sold in 1957; subsequently she dedicated herself to writing and study.\n\nShe was active at Haslemere Educational Museum as committee member, Honorary Librarian and trustee, where she often enthused parties of local school children about nature. Penny Hollow, in a postscript to the centenary edition of Margaret Hutchinson's memoirs remembered:\n\nHutchinson was also a member of Haslemere Natural History Society for 74 years, wrote a column for the local newspaper, \"The Haslemere Herald\", for over 20 years and contributed to journals.\n\nIn her 60s Hutchinson took up the study of plant galls (cecidology), soon becoming an expert and contributing to the Journal of the British Plant Gall Society. She continued the study until her last days, eventually donating her carefully indexed collection to the Haslemere Museum. Her journals and notebooks, covering nearly 80 years, are also at the Museum.\n\nMargaret Hutchinson never married; she died on 30 June 1997, aged 92, in Haslemere. The updated re-issue of \"An Edwardian Childhood\" was published in 2003 to commemorate the centenary of her birth.\n\n\nWhat can you find…? series:\n\nMaking and keeping series:\n\nOut of doors series:\n\nNational Froebel Foundation:\n\n"}
{"id": "169208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169208", "title": "Marsh", "text": "Marsh\n\nA marsh is a wetland that is dominated by herbaceous rather than woody plant species. Marshes can often be found at the edges of lakes and streams, where they form a transition between the aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. They are often dominated by grasses, rushes or reeds. If woody plants are present they tend to be low-growing shrubs. This form of vegetation is what differentiates marshes from other types of wetland such as swamps, which are dominated by trees, and mires, which are wetlands that have accumulated deposits of acidic peat.\n\nMarshes provide a habitat for many species of plants, animals, and insects that have adapted to living in flooded conditions. The plants must be able to survive in wet mud with low oxygen levels. Many of these plants therefore have aerenchyma, channels within the stem that allow air to move from the leaves into the rooting zone. Marsh plants also tend to have rhizomes for underground storage and reproduction. Familiar examples include cattails, sedges, papyrus and sawgrass. Aquatic animals, from fish to salamanders, are generally able to live with a low amount of oxygen in the water. Some can obtain oxygen from the air instead, while others can live indefinitely in conditions of low oxygen. Marshes provide habitats for many kinds of invertebrates, fish, amphibians, waterfowl and aquatic mammals. Marshes have extremely high levels of biological production, some of the highest in the world, and therefore are important in supporting fisheries. Marshes also improve water quality by acting as a sink to filter pollutants and sediment from the water that flows through them. Marshes (and other wetlands) are able to absorb water during periods of heavy rainfall and slowly release it into waterways and therefore reduce the magnitude of flooding. The pH in marshes tends to be neutral to alkaline, as opposed to bogs, where peat accumulates under more acid conditions.\n\nMarshes differ depending mainly on their location and salinity. Both of these factors greatly influence the range and scope of animal and plant life that can survive and reproduce in these environments. The three main types of marsh are salt marshes, freshwater tidal marshes, and freshwater marshes. These three can be found worldwide and each contains a different set of organisms.\n\nSaltwater marshes are found around the world in mid to high latitudes, wherever there are sections of protected coastline. They are located close enough to the shoreline that the motion of the tides affects them, and, sporadically, they are covered with water. They flourish where the rate of sediment buildup is greater than the rate at which the land level is sinking. Salt marshes are dominated by specially adapted rooted vegetation, primarily salt-tolerant grasses.\n\nSalt marshes are most commonly found in lagoons, estuaries, and on the sheltered side of shingle or sandspit. The currents there carry the fine particles around to the quiet side of the spit and sediment begins to build up. These locations allow the marshes to absorb the excess nutrients from the water running through them before they reach the oceans and estuaries. These marshes are slowly declining. Coastal development and urban sprawl has caused significant loss of these essential habitats.\n\nAlthough considered a freshwater marsh, this form of marsh is affected by the ocean tides. However, without the stresses of salinity at work in its saltwater counterpart, the diversity of the plants and animals that live in and use freshwater tidal marshes is much higher than in salt marshes. The most serious threats to this form of marsh are the increasing size and pollution of the cities surrounding them.\n\nRanging greatly in both size and geographic location, freshwater marshes make up the most common form of wetland in North America. They are also the most diverse of the three types of marsh. Some examples of freshwater marsh types in North America are:\n\nWet meadows occur in areas such as shallow lake basins, low-lying depressions, and the land between shallow marshes and upland areas. They also occur on the edges of large lakes and rivers. Wet meadows often have very high plant diversity and high densities of buried seeds. They are regularly flooded but are often dry in the summer.\n\nVernal pools are a type of marsh found only seasonally in shallow depressions in the land. They can be covered in shallow water, but in the summer and fall, they can be completely dry. In western North America, vernal pools tend to form in open grasslands, whereas in the east they often occur in forested landscapes. Further south, vernal pools form in pine savannas and flatwoods. Many amphibian species depend upon vernal pools for spring breeding; these ponds provide habitat free from fish which eat the eggs and young of amphibians. An example is the endangered gopher frog (\"Rana sevosa\"). Similar temporary ponds occur in other world ecosystems, where they may have local names. However, the term vernal pool can be applied to all such temporary pool ecosystems.\n\nPlaya lakes are a form of shallow freshwater marsh that occurs in the southern high plains of the United States. Like vernal pools, they are only present at certain times of the year and generally have a circular shape. As the playa dries during the summer, conspicuous plant zonation develops along the shoreline.\n\nPrairie potholes are found in the northern parts of North America as the Prairie Pothole Region. These landscapes were once covered by glaciers, and as a result shallow depressions were formed in great numbers. These depressions fill with water in the spring. They provide important breeding habitats for many species of waterfowl. Some pools only occur seasonally while others retain enough water to be present all year.\n\nMany kinds of marsh occur along the fringes of large rivers. The different types are produced by factors such as water level, nutrients, ice scour, and waves.\n\nSome areas of the world have already lost 90% of their wetlands, including marshes. They have been drained to create agricultural land or filled to accommodate urban sprawl. Restoration is the process of returning marshes to the landscape to replace those lost in the past. Restoration can be done on a large scale, such as by allowing rivers to flood naturally in the spring, or on a small scale by returning wetlands to urban landscapes.\n\n"}
{"id": "15590867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15590867", "title": "Meguma terrane", "text": "Meguma terrane\n\nThe Meguma terrane, also known as Megumia, is a terrane exposed in southern Nova Scotia, that became joined to the present North American landmass as part of the Appalachian orogeny. \n\nThe exposed part of the Meguma terrane, the Meguma Group, is largely composed of thick Cambrian to Ordovician turbidites that have been interpreted as submarine fan deposits. The Meguma terrane is joined to the Avalon terrane along the Minas Fault Zone, which runs east-west from Chedabucto Bay to Cobequid Bay and the Minas Basin. The Meguma Group is intruded by numerous Devonian and Carboniferous plutons.\n\nThe extent of the formation is unclear; some geologists believe that a magnetic anomaly along the coast of Cape Cod may represent a suture between the Meguma and Avalon terranes in that region. Unlike the Avalon terrane, the Meguma terrane has not been definitely associated with a territory on the other side of the Atlantic. It may be represented in either the Galicia-Tras-Os-Montes Zone in Spain and Portugal; the West African Craton in Morocco; or the Amazonian Craton. Meguma was, nevertheless, part of Gondwana during the Cambrian, and possibly formed a single peri-Gondwanan fragment together with Avalon. Meguma then became shortened during the Acadian orogeny but Avalon somehow escaped those Acadian deformations.\n\nGeologically this area is of interest not only to students of geological history, but because metamorphism produced gold deposits which were mined extensively (up to ) in the latter half of the 19th century, and which remain potentially exploitable today during periods of higher gold prices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5328937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5328937", "title": "Minewater Project", "text": "Minewater Project\n\nThe Minewater Project, based in Heerlen and other areas, aims to demonstrate how the geothermal energy stored by mine water can be used as a safe and ecological way to heat buildings.\n\nThe aims of the pilot projects are:\n\nThe Minewater Project is supported by a grant from the European Union under the framework of the Interreg IIIB NWE Programme. There are five project partners and numerous European observers who are contributing their expertise and knowledge.\n\nThe total costs of the project amount to € 20 millions to which Interreg IIIB is contributing 48%.\nThe Project began work in March 2005, and it will run until June 2008.\n\nThe scheme in Heerlen will be located at two areas of redevelopment in the town at Heerlerheide Centrum and Stadpark Oranje Nassau. These sites are 3.5 km apart situated to the north of the town and in the centre of the town, respectively. The two sites will part of one system that will be able to both heat and cool buildings.\n\nTwo wells will be drilled in Heerlerheide to a depth of 825 metres. Nearly a kilometre beneath the town water can be found at about 35°C, like a warm bath. This task will not be easy and is likely to require 350 hours of continuous drilling. By the time the drilling is complete and tests carried out, engineers will know a lot more exact detail about the water temperature and quality, and the cost of using it.\n\nAt Stadpark Oranje Nassau the drilling does not need to be so deep, because the mineshafts themselves are not so deep. An intermediate well will be drilled to 500 metres and also two shallow 250 metre wells.\n\nThe shallow wells will receive the water from Heelerheide that has meanwhile been used for heating buildings. The heat will have been used up, so the water will fill the shallow wells at a temperature of 17°C. This means that it can also be useful for cooling.\n"}
{"id": "30992336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30992336", "title": "National Adaptation Programme of Action", "text": "National Adaptation Programme of Action\n\nA National Adaptation Programme of Action (NAPA) is a type of plan submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) by Least Developed Countries, to describe the country's perception of its most \"urgent and immediate needs to adapt to climate change\". NAPAs are not supposed to include original research, but use existing information and include profiles of priority projects that are intended to address those needs that have been identified.\n\nThe UNFCCC maintains a database of NAPAs, and of country priorities that have been identified within NAPAs. As of November 2011, it contained reports from 46 LDCs.\n\nThe Least Developed Country Fund (LDCF) was established to finance the preparation of NAPAs and to implement the projects that they propose. The LDCF currently has resources of at least US$415 million, of which US$177 million has been approved for 47 projects, attracting more than US$550 million in co-financing in the process.\n\nNAPAs are meant to provide LDCs with an opportunity to identify their \"urgent and immediate needs\" for adapting to climate change. As part of the NAPA process, LDC government ministries, typically assisted by development agencies, assess their countries’ vulnerability to climate change and extreme weather events. They then develop a prioritized list of adaptation projects that will help the country cope with the adverse effects of climate change. LDCs that submit NAPAs to the UNFCCC then become eligible for funding through the Least Developed Countries Fund (LDC Fund) for NAPA projects. The LDC Fund was designed through the UNFCCC to specifically assist least developed countries, as they are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change. To date, forty five LDCs have written and submitted NAPAs to the UNFCCC, with Nepal as the latest country to submit its NAPA in November 2010. Three more countries (Angola, Myanmar, and Timor Leste) are scheduled to complete their NAPAs by the end of 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "56024674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56024674", "title": "National Prize for Natural Sciences (Chile)", "text": "National Prize for Natural Sciences (Chile)\n\nThe National Prize for Natural Sciences () was created in 1992 as one of the replacements for the National Prize for Sciences under Law 19169. The other two prizes in this same area are for Exact Sciences and Applied Sciences and Technologies.\n\nIt is part of the National Prize of Chile.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32851666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32851666", "title": "Natural History Museum of Tripoli", "text": "Natural History Museum of Tripoli\n\nThe Natural History Museum of Tripoli is a museum located in Tripoli, Libya.\n"}
{"id": "41471188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41471188", "title": "Oil Pollution Act of 1973", "text": "Oil Pollution Act of 1973\n\nThe Oil Pollution Act of 1973 or Oil Pollution Act Amendments of 1973, 33 U.S.C. Chapter 20 §§ 1001-1011, was a United States federal law which amended the United States Statute . The Act of Congress sustained the United States commitment to control the discharge of fossil fuel pollutants from nautical vessels and to acknowledge the embargo of coastal zones in trans-boundary waters.\n\nThe H.R. 5451 legislation was passed by the United States 93rd Congressional session and enacted by the 37th President of the United States Richard Nixon on October 4, 1973.\n\nThe International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil (OILPOL) was an international convention organized by the United Kingdom in 1954. The convention was held in London, England from April 26, 1954 to May 12, 1954. The international meeting was convened to recognize the disposal of hazardous waste which could potentially yield toxic contamination to the marine ecosystems.\n\nThe International Convention for the Prevention of the Pollution of the Sea by Oil, 1954 original text was authored in English and French. The environmental protocol was amended in 1962, 1969, and 1971.\n\nThe 1971 OILPOL amendments imposed irrevocable oceanic jurisdictions for the Great Barrier Reef located in the Coral Sea. The international convention amendments introduced design control provisions for sea-going vessels which specified tank formation arrangement and tank size limitations for nautical transport ships.\n\nThe 1973 amendments accentuated the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil, 1954 by complying with the 1969 and 1971 international convention agreement amendments.\n\nThe 1973 United States public law was repealed by the enactment of Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships on October 21, 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "852638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=852638", "title": "Pleiades (Greek mythology)", "text": "Pleiades (Greek mythology)\n\nThe Pleiades (; ), companions of Artemis, were the seven daughters of the titan Atlas and the sea-nymph Pleione born on Mount Cyllene. They were the sisters of Calypso, Hyas, the Hyades, and the Hesperides. The Pleiades were nymphs in the train of Artemis, and together with the seven Hyades were called the Atlantides, Dodonides, or Nysiades, nursemaids and teachers to the infant Dionysus. They were thought to have been translated to the night sky as a cluster of stars, the Pleiades, and were associated with rain.\n\nClassicists debate the origin of the name \"Pleiades\". It ostensibly derives from the name of their mother, Pleione, effectively meaning \"daughters of Pleione\". However, the name of the star-cluster likely came first, and Pleione was invented to explain it. According to another suggestion \"Pleiades\" derives from πλεῖν (\"plein\" , \"to sail\") because of the cluster's importance in delimiting the sailing season in the Mediterranean Sea: \"the season of navigation began with their heliacal rising\".\n\nSeveral of the most prominent male Olympian gods (including Zeus, Poseidon, and Ares) engaged in affairs with the seven heavenly sisters. These relationships resulted in the birth of their children.\n\n\nSometimes they are related to the Hesperides, nymphs of the morning star.\n\nAfter Atlas was forced to carry the heavens on his shoulders, Orion began to pursue all of the Pleiades, and Zeus transformed them first into doves, and then into stars to comfort their father. The constellation of Orion is said to still pursue them across the night sky.\n\nOne of the most memorable myths involving the Pleiades is the story of how these sisters literally became stars, their \"catasterism\". According to some versions of the tale, all seven sisters committed suicide because they were so saddened by either the fate of their father, Atlas, or the loss of their siblings, the Hyades. In turn Zeus, the ruler of the Greek gods, immortalized the sisters by placing them in the sky. There these seven stars formed the star cluster known thereafter as the Pleiades.\n\nThe Greek poet Hesiod mentions the Pleiades several times in his \"Works and Days\". As the Pleiades are primarily winter stars, they feature prominently in the ancient agricultural calendar. Here is a bit of advice from Hesiod:\n\nThe Pleiades would \"flee mighty Orion and plunge into the misty deep\" as they set in the West, which they would begin to do just before dawn during October–November, a good time of the year to lay up your ship after the fine summer weather and \"remember to work the land\"; in Mediterranean agriculture autumn is the time to plough and sow.\n\nThe poet Lord Tennyson mentions the Pleiades in his poem Locksley Hall:\n\nThe loss of one of the sisters, Merope, in some myths may reflect an astronomical event wherein one of the stars in the Pleiades star cluster disappeared from view by the naked eye.\n\nAlthough most accounts are uniform as to the number, names, and main myths concerning the Pleiades, the mythological information recorded by a scholiast on Theocritus' Idylls with reference to Callimachus has nothing in common with the traditional version. According to it, the Pleiades were daughters of an Amazonian queen; their names were Maia, Coccymo, Glaucia, Protis, Parthenia, Stonychia, and Lampado. They were credited with inventing ritual dances and nighttime festivals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1179890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1179890", "title": "Pyroxenite", "text": "Pyroxenite\n\nPyroxenite is an ultramafic igneous rock consisting essentially of minerals of the pyroxene group, such as augite, diopside, hypersthene, bronzite or enstatite. Pyroxenites are classified into clinopyroxenites, orthopyroxenites, and the websterites which contain both types of pyroxenes (see diagram below). Closely allied to this group are the hornblendites, consisting essentially of hornblende and other amphiboles.\n\nThey are essentially of igneous origin, though some pyroxenites are included in the metamorphic Lewisian complex of Scotland. The pyroxene-rich rocks, which result from the type of contact metamorphism known as pyroxene-hornfels facies, have siliceous sediment or basaltic protoliths, and are respectively metapelites and metabasites.\n\nIgneous pyroxenites are closely allied to gabbros and norites, from which they differ by the absence of feldspar, and to peridotites, which are distinguished from them by containing more than 40% olivine. This connection is indicated also by their mode of occurrence, for they usually accompany masses of gabbro and peridotite and seldom are found by themselves.\n\nThey are often very coarse-grained, containing individual crystals which may be several inches in length. The principal accessory minerals, in addition to olivine and feldspar, are chromite and other spinels, garnet, magnetite, rutile, and scapolite.\n\nPyroxenites can be formed as cumulates in ultramafic intrusions by accumulation of pyroxene crystals at the base of the magma chamber. Here they are generally associated with gabbro and anorthite cumulate layers and are typically high up in the intrusion. They may be accompanied by magnetite layers, ilmenite layers, but rarely chromite cumulates.\n\nPyroxenites are also found as layers within masses of peridotite. These layers most commonly have been interpreted as products of reaction between ascending magmas and peridotite of the upper mantle. The layers typically are a few centimeters to a meter or so in thickness. Pyroxenites that occur as xenoliths in basalt and in kimberlite have been interpreted as fragments of such layers. Although some mantle pyroxenites contain garnet, they are not eclogites, as clinopyroxene in them is less sodic than omphacite and the pyroxenite compositions typically are unlike that of basalt. Pyroxenites might play an important role in basalt genesis (e.g., Lambart et al., 2016), either by contributing directly to the magma production, or indirectly as the result of reaction between peridotite and magma derived from partial melting of eclogite (e.g., Sobolev and others, 2007).\n\nPurely pyroxene-bearing volcanic rocks are rare, restricted to spinifex-textured sills, lava tubes and thick flows in the Archaean greenstone belts. Here, the pyroxenite lavas are created by in-situ crystallisation and accumulation of pyroxene at the base of a lava flow, creating the distinctive spinifex texture, but also occasionally mesocumulate and orthocumulate segregations. This is in essence similar to the formation of olivine spinifex textures in komatiite lava flows, the chemistry of the magma differing only to favor crystallisation of pyroxene.\n\nA type locality is the Gullewa Greenstone Belt, in the Murchison region of Western Australia, and the Duketon Belt near Laverton, where pyroxene spinifex lavas are closely associated with gold deposits.\n\nThey frequently occur in the form of dikes or segregations in gabbro and peridotite: in Shetland, Cortland on the Hudson River, North Carolina (websterite), Baltimore, New Zealand, and in Saxony. They are also found in the Bushveld Igneous Complex in South Africa and Zimbabwe.\nThe pyroxenites are often subject serpentinization under low temperature retrograde metamorphism and weathering. The rocks are often completely replaced by serpentines, which sometimes preserve the original structures of the primary minerals, such as the lamination of hypersthene and the rectangular cleavage of augite. Under pressure-metamorphism hornblende is developed and various types of amphibolite and hornblende-schist are produced. Occasionally rocks rich in pyroxene are found as basic facies of nepheline syenite; a good example is provided by the melanite pyroxenites associated with the \"borolanite\" variety found in the Loch Borralan igneous complex of Scotland.\n\nLambart, S. L., and others, 2016, \"The role of pyroxenite in basalt genesis: Melt-PX, a melting parameterization for mantle pyroxenites between 0.9 and 5 GPa\", Journal of Geophysical Research - Solid Earth 121, p. 5708–5735.\nSobolev, A. V., and others, 2007, \"The amount of recycled crust in sources of mantle-derived melts\", Science 316, p. 412-417 (abstract) Retrieved on 6 October 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "70157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70157", "title": "Recycling", "text": "Recycling\n\nRecycling is the process of converting waste materials into new materials and objects. It is an alternative to \"conventional\" waste disposal that can save material and help lower greenhouse gas emissions. Recycling can prevent the waste of potentially useful materials and reduce the consumption of fresh raw materials, thereby reducing: energy usage, air pollution (from incineration), and water pollution (from landfilling).\n\nRecycling is a key component of modern waste reduction and is the third component of the \"Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle\" waste hierarchy. Thus, recycling aims at environmental sustainability by substituting raw material inputs into and redirecting waste outputs out of the economic system.\n\nThere are some ISO standards related to recycling such as ISO 15270:2008 for plastics waste and ISO 14001:2015 for environmental management control of recycling practice.\n\n\"Recyclable materials\" include many kinds of glass, paper, cardboard, metal, plastic, tires, textiles, and electronics. The composting or other reuse of biodegradable waste—such as food or garden waste—is also considered recycling. Materials to be recycled are either brought to a collection center or picked up from the curbside, then sorted, cleaned, and reprocessed into new materials destined for manufacturing.\n\nIn the strictest sense, recycling of a material would produce a fresh supply of the same material—for example, used office paper would be converted into new office paper or used polystyrene foam into new polystyrene. However, this is often difficult or too expensive (compared with producing the same product from raw materials or other sources), so \"recycling\" of many products or materials involves their \"reuse\" in producing different materials (for example, paperboard) instead. Another form of recycling is the salvage of certain materials from complex products, either due to their intrinsic value (such as lead from car batteries, or gold from circuit boards), or due to their hazardous nature (e.g., removal and reuse of mercury from thermometers and thermostats).\n\nRecycling has been a common practice for most of human history, with recorded advocates as far back as Plato in the fourth century BC during the Byzantine era. During periods when resources were scarce and hard to come by, archaeological studies of ancient waste dumps show less household waste (such as ash, broken tools, and pottery)—implying more waste was being recycled in the absence of new material.\n\nIn pre-industrial times, there is evidence of scrap bronze and other metals being collected in Europe and melted down for perpetual reuse. Paper recycling was first recorded in 1031 when Japanese shops sold repulped paper. In Britain dust and ash from wood and coal fires was collected by \"dustmen\" and downcycled as a base material used in brick making. The main driver for these types of recycling was the economic advantage of obtaining recycled feedstock instead of acquiring virgin material, as well as a lack of public waste removal in ever more densely populated areas. In 1813, Benjamin Law developed the process of turning rags into \"shoddy\" and \"mungo\" wool in Batley, Yorkshire. This material combined recycled fibers with virgin wool. The West Yorkshire shoddy industry in towns such as Batley and Dewsbury lasted from the early 19th century to at least 1914.\n\nIndustrialization spurred demand for affordable materials; aside from rags, ferrous scrap metals were coveted as they were cheaper to acquire than virgin ore. Railroads both purchased and sold scrap metal in the 19th century, and the growing steel and automobile industries purchased scrap in the early 20th century. Many secondary goods were collected, processed and sold by peddlers who scoured dumps and city streets for discarded machinery, pots, pans, and other sources of metal. By World War I, thousands of such peddlers roamed the streets of American cities, taking advantage of market forces to recycle post-consumer materials back into industrial production.\n\nBeverage bottles were recycled with a refundable deposit at some drink manufacturers in Great Britain and Ireland around 1800, notably Schweppes. An official recycling system with refundable deposits was established in Sweden for bottles in 1884 and aluminum beverage cans in 1982; the law led to a recycling rate for beverage containers of 84–99 percent depending on type, and a glass bottle can be refilled over 20 times on average.\n\nNew chemical industries created in the late 19th century both invented new materials (e.g. Bakelite [1907]) and promised to transform valueless into valuable materials. Proverbially, you could not make a silk purse of a sow's ear—until the US firm Arhur D. Little published in 1921 \"On the Making of Silk Purses from Sows' Ears\", its research proving that when \"chemistry puts on overalls and gets down to business ... new values appear. New and better paths are opened to reach the goals desired.\"\n\nRecycling (or \"salvage\", as it was then usually known) was a major issue for governments throughout World War II. Financial constraints and significant material shortages due to war efforts made it necessary for countries to reuse goods and recycle materials. These resource shortages caused by the world wars, and other such world-changing occurrences, greatly encouraged recycling. The struggles of war claimed much of the material resources available, leaving little for the civilian population. It became necessary for most homes to recycle their waste, as recycling offered an extra source of materials allowing people to make the most of what was available to them. Recycling household materials meant more resources for war efforts and a better chance of victory. Massive government promotion campaigns, such as the National Salvage Campaign in Britain and the Salvage for Victory campaign in the United States, were carried out on the home front in every combative nation, urging citizens to donate metal, paper, rags, and rubber as a matter of patriotism.\n\nA considerable investment in recycling occurred in the 1970s, due to rising energy costs. Recycling aluminum uses only 5% of the energy required by virgin production; glass, paper and other metals have less dramatic but very significant energy savings when recycled feedstock is used.\n\nAlthough consumer electronics such as the television have been popular since the 1920s, recycling of them was almost unheard of until early 1991. The first electronic waste recycling scheme was implemented in Switzerland, beginning with collection of old refrigerators but gradually expanding to cover all devices. After these schemes were set up, many countries did not have the capacity to deal with the sheer quantity of e-waste they generated or its hazardous nature. They began to export the problem to developing countries without enforced environmental legislation. This is cheaper, as recycling computer monitors in the United States costs 10 times more than in China. Demand in Asia for electronic waste began to grow when scrap yards found that they could extract valuable substances such as copper, silver, iron, silicon, nickel, and gold, during the recycling process. The 2000s saw a large increase in both the sale of electronic devices and their growth as a waste stream: in 2002, e-waste grew faster than any other type of waste in the EU. This caused investment in modern, automated facilities to cope with the influx of redundant appliances, especially after strict laws were implemented in 2003.\n\nAs of 2014, the European Union had about 50% of world share of the waste and recycling industries, with over companies employing persons, with a turnover of €24 billion. Countries have to reach recycling rates of at least 50%, while the lead countries were around 65% and the EU average was 39% as of 2013.\nThe EU average rises steadily, to 45% in 2015.\n\nIn 2018, changes in the recycling market have sparked a global \"crisis\" in the industry. On December 31, 2017, China announced its \"National Sword\" policy, setting new standards for imports of recyclable material and banning materials that were deemed too \"dirty\" or \"hazardous\". The new policy caused drastic disruptions in the global market in recycling and reduced the prices of scrap plastic and low-grade paper. Exports of recyclable materials from G7 countries to China dropped dramatically, with many exports shifting to countries in southeast Asia. The crisis generated significant concern about the practices and environmental sustainability of the recycling industry. The abrupt shift caused countries to accept more recyclable materials than they could process, raising fundamental questions about shipping recycling waste from economically developed countries to countries with few environmental regulations—a practice that predated the crisis.\n\nFor a recycling program to work, having a large, stable supply of recyclable material is crucial. Three legislative options have been used to create such a supply: mandatory recycling collection, container deposit legislation, and refuse bans. Mandatory collection laws set recycling targets for cities to aim for, usually in the form that a certain percentage of a material must be diverted from the city's waste stream by a target date. The city is then responsible for working to meet this target.\n\nContainer deposit legislation involves offering a refund for the return of certain containers, typically glass, plastic, and metal. When a product in such a container is purchased, a small surcharge is added to the price. This surcharge can be reclaimed by the consumer if the container is returned to a collection point. These programs have been very successful, often resulting in an 80 percent recycling rate. Despite such good results, the shift in collection costs from local government to industry and consumers has created strong opposition to the creation of such programs in some areas. A variation on this is where the manufacturer bears responsibility for the recycling of their goods. In the European Union, the WEEE Directive requires producers of consumer electronics to reimburse the recyclers' costs.\n\nAn alternative way to increase supply of recyclates is to ban the disposal of certain materials as waste, often including used oil, old batteries, tires, and garden waste. One aim of this method is to create a viable economy for proper disposal of banned products. Care must be taken that enough of these recycling services exist, or such bans simply lead to increased illegal dumping.\n\nLegislation has also been used to increase and maintain a demand for recycled materials. Four methods of such legislation exist: minimum recycled content mandates, utilization rates, procurement policies, and recycled product labeling.\n\nBoth minimum recycled content mandates and utilization rates increase demand directly by forcing manufacturers to include recycling in their operations. Content mandates specify that a certain percentage of a new product must consist of recycled material. Utilization rates are a more flexible option: industries are permitted to meet the recycling targets at any point of their operation or even contract recycling out in exchange for tradeable credits. Opponents to both of these methods point to the large increase in reporting requirements they impose, and claim that they rob industry of necessary flexibility.\n\nGovernments have used their own purchasing power to increase recycling demand through what are called \"procurement policies\". These policies are either \"set-asides\", which reserve a certain amount of spending solely towards recycled products, or \"price preference\" programs which provide a larger budget when recycled items are purchased. Additional regulations can target specific cases: in the United States, for example, the Environmental Protection Agency mandates the purchase of oil, paper, tires and building insulation from recycled or re-refined sources whenever possible.\n\nThe final government regulation towards increased demand is recycled product labeling. When producers are required to label their packaging with amount of recycled material in the product (including the packaging), consumers are better able to make educated choices. Consumers with sufficient buying power can then choose more environmentally conscious options, prompt producers to increase the amount of recycled material in their products, and indirectly increase demand. Standardized recycling labeling can also have a positive effect on supply of recyclates if the labeling includes information on how and where the product can be recycled.\n\nRecyclate is a raw material that is sent to, and processed in a waste recycling plant or materials recovery facility which will be used to form new products. The material is collected in various methods and delivered to a facility where it undergoes re-manufacturing so that it can be used in the production of new materials or products. For example, plastic bottles that are collected can be re-used and made into plastic pellets, a new product.\n\nThe quality of recyclates is recognized as one of the principal challenges that needs to be addressed for the success of a long-term vision of a green economy and achieving zero waste. Recyclate quality is generally referring to how much of the raw material is made up of target material compared to the amount of non-target material and other non-recyclable material. Only target material is likely to be recycled, so a higher amount of non-target and non-recyclable material will reduce the quantity of recycling product. A high proportion of non-target and non-recyclable material can make it more difficult for re-processors to achieve \"high-quality\" recycling. If the recyclate is of poor quality, it is more likely to end up being down-cycled or, in more extreme cases, sent to other recovery options or landfilled. For example, to facilitate the re-manufacturing of clear glass products there are tight restrictions for colored glass going into the re-melt process.\n\nThe quality of recyclate not only supports high-quality recycling, but it can also deliver significant environmental benefits by reducing, reusing and keeping products out of landfills. High-quality recycling can help support growth in the economy by maximizing the economic value of the waste material collected. Higher income levels from the sale of quality recyclates can return value which can be significant to local governments, households, and businesses. Pursuing high-quality recycling can also provide consumer and business confidence in the waste and resource management sector and may encourage investment in that sector.\n\nThere are many actions along the recycling supply chain that can influence and affect the material quality of recyclate. It begins with the waste producers who place non-target and non-recyclable wastes in recycling collection. This can affect the quality of final recyclate streams or require further efforts to discard those materials at later stages in the recycling process. The different collection systems can result in different levels of contamination. Depending on which materials are collected together, extra effort is required to sort this material back into separate streams and can significantly reduce the quality of the final product. Transportation and the compaction of materials can make it more difficult to separate material back into separate waste streams. Sorting facilities are not one hundred per cent effective in separating materials, despite improvements in technology and quality recyclate which can see a loss in recyclate quality. The storage of materials outside, where the product can become wet, can cause problems for re-processors. Reprocessing facilities may require further sorting steps to further reduce the amount of non-target and non-recyclable material. Each action along the recycling path plays a part in the quality of recyclate.\n\nThe Recyclate Quality Action Plan of Scotland sets out a number of proposed actions that the Scottish Government would like to take forward in order to drive up the quality of the materials being collected for recycling and sorted at materials recovery facilities before being exported or sold on to the reprocessing market.\n\nThe plan's objectives are to:\n\nThe plan focuses on three key areas, with fourteen actions which were identified to increase the quality of materials collected, sorted and presented to the processing market in Scotland.\n\nThe three areas of focus are:\n\n\nA number of different systems have been implemented to collect recyclates from the general waste stream. These systems lie along the spectrum of trade-off between public convenience and government ease and expense. The three main categories of collection are \"drop-off centers\", \"buy-back centers\", and \"curbside collection\".\n\nCurbside collection encompasses many subtly different systems, which differ mostly on where in the process the recyclates are sorted and cleaned. The main categories are mixed waste collection, commingled recyclables, and source separation. A waste collection vehicle generally picks up the waste.\n\nAt one end of the spectrum is mixed waste collection, in which all recyclates are collected mixed in with the rest of the waste, and the desired material is then sorted out and cleaned at a central sorting facility. This results in a large amount of recyclable waste, paper especially, being too soiled to reprocess, but has advantages as well: the city need not pay for a separate collection of recyclates and no public education is needed. Any changes to which materials are recyclable is easy to accommodate as all sorting happens in a central location.\n\nIn a commingled or single-stream system, all recyclables for collection are mixed but kept separate from other waste. This greatly reduces the need for post-collection cleaning but does require public education on what materials are recyclable.\n\nSource separation is the other extreme, where each material is cleaned and sorted prior to collection. This method requires the least post-collection sorting and produces the purest recyclates, but incurs additional operating costs for collection of each separate material. An extensive public education program is also required, which must be successful if recyclate contamination is to be avoided.\n\nSource separation used to be the preferred method due to the high sorting costs incurred by commingled (mixed waste) collection. However, advances in sorting technology have lowered this overhead substantially. Many areas which had developed source separation programs have since switched to what's called \"co-mingled collection\".\n\nBuy-back centers differ in that the cleaned recyclates are purchased, thus providing a clear incentive for use and creating a stable supply. The post-processed material can then be sold. If this is profitable, this conserves the emission of greenhouse gases; if unprofitable, it increases the emission of greenhouse gasses. Government subsidies are necessary to make buy-back centres a viable enterprise. In 1993, according to the U.S. National Waste & Recycling Association, it costs on average $50 to process a ton of material, which can be resold for $30.\n\nIn the US, the value per ton of mixed recyclables was $180 in 2011, $80 in 2015, and $100 in 2017.\n\nIn 2017, glass is essentially valueless, because of the low cost of sand, its major component; low oil costs thwarts plastic recycling.\n\nIn 2017, Napa, California, was reimbursed about 20% of its costs in recycling.\n\nDrop-off centers require the waste producer to carry the recyclates to a central location, either an installed or mobile collection station or the reprocessing plant itself. They are the easiest type of collection to establish but suffer from low and unpredictable throughput.\n\nFor some waste materials such as plastic, recent technical devices called recyclebots enable a form of distributed recycling. Preliminary life-cycle analysis (LCA) indicates that such distributed recycling of HDPE to make filament of 3D printers in rural regions is energetically favorable to either using virgin resin or conventional recycling processes because of reductions in transportation energy.\n\nOnce commingled recyclates are collected and delivered to a central collection facility, the different types of materials must be sorted. This is done in a series of stages, many of which involve automated processes such that a truckload of material can be fully sorted in less than an hour. Some plants can now sort the materials automatically, known as single-stream recycling. In plants, a variety of materials is sorted such as paper, different types of plastics, glass, metals, food scraps, and most types of batteries. A 30 percent increase in recycling rates has been seen in the areas where these plants exist.\n\nInitially, the commingled recyclates are removed from the collection vehicle and placed on a conveyor belt spread out in a single layer. Large pieces of corrugated fiberboard and plastic bags are removed by hand at this stage, as they can cause later machinery to jam.\n\nNext, automated machinery such as disk screens and air classifiers separate the recyclates by weight, splitting lighter paper and plastic from heavier glass and metal. Cardboard is removed from the mixed paper and the most common types of plastic, PET (#1) and HDPE (#2), are collected. This separation is usually done by hand but has become automated in some sorting centers: a spectroscopic scanner is used to differentiate between different types of paper and plastic based on the absorbed wavelengths, and subsequently divert each material into the proper collection channel.\n\nStrong magnets are used to separate out ferrous metals, such as iron, steel, and tin cans. Non-ferrous metals are ejected by magnetic eddy currents in which a rotating magnetic field induces an electric current around the aluminum cans, which in turn creates a magnetic eddy current inside the cans. This magnetic eddy current is repulsed by a large magnetic field, and the cans are ejected from the rest of the recyclate stream.\n\nFinally, glass is sorted according to its color: brown, amber, green, or clear. It may either be sorted by hand, or via an automated machine that uses colored filters to detect different colors. Glass fragments smaller than across cannot be sorted automatically, and are mixed together as \"glass fines\".\n\nThis process of recycling as well as reusing the recycled material has proven advantageous because it reduces amount of waste sent to landfills, conserves natural resources, saves energy, reduces greenhouse gas emissions, and helps create new jobs. Recycled materials can also be converted into new products that can be consumed again, such as paper, plastic, and glass.\n\nThe City and County of San Francisco's Department of the Environment is attempting to achieve a citywide goal of generating zero waste by 2020. San Francisco's refuse hauler, Recology, operates an effective recyclables sorting facility in San Francisco, which helped San Francisco reach a record-breaking diversion rate of 80%.\n\nFood packaging should no longer contain any organic matter (organic matter, if any, needs to be placed in a biodegradable waste bin or be buried in a garden). Since no trace of biodegradable material is best kept in the packaging before placing it in a trash bag, some packaging also needs to be rinsed.\n\nAlthough many government programs are concentrated on recycling at home, 64% of waste in the United Kingdom is generated by industry. The focus of many recycling programs done by industry is the cost–effectiveness of recycling. The ubiquitous nature of cardboard packaging makes cardboard a commonly recycled waste product by companies that deal heavily in packaged goods, like retail stores, warehouses, and distributors of goods. Other industries deal in niche or specialized products, depending on the nature of the waste materials that are present.\n\nThe glass, lumber, wood pulp and paper manufacturers all deal directly in commonly recycled materials; however, old rubber tires may be collected and recycled by independent tire dealers for a profit.\n\nLevels of metals recycling are generally low. In 2010, the International Resource Panel, hosted by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) published reports on metal stocks that exist within society and their recycling rates. The Panel reported that the increase in the use of metals during the 20th and into the 21st century has led to a substantial shift in metal stocks from below ground to use in applications within society above ground. For example, the in-use stock of copper in the USA grew from 73 to 238 kg per capita between 1932 and 1999.\n\nThe report authors observed that, as metals are inherently recyclable, the metal stocks in society can serve as huge mines above ground (the term \"urban mining\" has been coined with this idea in mind). However, they found that the recycling rates of many metals are very low. The report warned that the recycling rates of some rare metals used in applications such as mobile phones, battery packs for hybrid cars and fuel cells, are so low that unless future end-of-life recycling rates are dramatically stepped up these critical metals will become unavailable for use in modern technology.\n\nThe military recycles some metals. The U.S. Navy's Ship Disposal Program uses ship breaking to reclaim the steel of old vessels. Ships may also be sunk to create an artificial reef. Uranium is a very dense metal that has qualities superior to lead and titanium for many military and industrial uses. The uranium left over from processing it into nuclear weapons and fuel for nuclear reactors is called depleted uranium, and it is used by all branches of the U.S. military use for armour-piercing shells and shielding.\n\nThe construction industry may recycle concrete and old road surface pavement, selling their waste materials for profit.\n\nSome industries, like the renewable energy industry and solar photovoltaic technology, in particular, are being proactive in setting up recycling policies even before there is considerable volume to their waste streams, anticipating future demand during their rapid growth.\n\nRecycling of plastics is more difficult, as most programs are not able to reach the necessary level of quality. Recycling of PVC often results in downcycling of the material, which means only products of lower quality standard can be made with the recycled material. A new approach which allows an equal level of quality is the Vinyloop process. It was used after the London Olympics 2012 to fulfill the PVC Policy.\n\nE-waste is a growing problem, accounting for 20–50 million metric tons of global waste per year according to the EPA. It is also the fastest growing waste stream in the EU. Many recyclers do not recycle e-waste responsibly. After the cargo barge Khian Sea dumped 14,000 metric tons of toxic ash in Haiti, the Basel Convention was formed to stem the flow of hazardous substances into poorer countries. They created the e-Stewards certification to ensure that recyclers are held to the highest standards for environmental responsibility and to help consumers identify responsible recyclers. This works alongside other prominent legislation, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive of the EU the United States National Computer Recycling Act, to prevent poisonous chemicals from entering waterways and the atmosphere.\n\nIn the recycling process, television sets, monitors, cell phones, and computers are typically tested for reuse and repaired. If broken, they may be disassembled for parts still having high value if labor is cheap enough. Other e-waste is shredded to pieces roughly in size, and manually checked to separate out toxic batteries and capacitors which contain poisonous metals. The remaining pieces are further shredded to particles and passed under a magnet to remove ferrous metals. An eddy current ejects non-ferrous metals, which are sorted by density either by a centrifuge or vibrating plates. Precious metals can be dissolved in acid, sorted, and smelted into ingots. The remaining glass and plastic fractions are separated by density and sold to re-processors. Television sets and monitors must be manually disassembled to remove lead from CRTs or the mercury backlight from LCDs.\n\nPlastic recycling is the process of recovering scrap or waste plastic and reprocessing the material into useful products, sometimes completely different in form from their original state. For instance, this could mean melting down soft drink bottles and then casting them as plastic chairs and tables.\n\nSome plastics are remelted to form new plastic objects; for example, PET water bottles can be converted into polyester destined for clothing. A disadvantage of this type of recycling is that the molecular weight of the polymer can change further and the levels of unwanted substances in the plastic can increase with each remelt.\n\nFor some polymers, it is possible to convert them back into monomers, for example, PET can be treated with an alcohol and a catalyst to form a dialkyl terephthalate. The terephthalate diester can be used with ethylene glycol to form a new polyester polymer, thus making it possible to use the pure polymer again.\n\nAnother process involves conversion of assorted polymers into petroleum by a much less precise thermal depolymerization process. Such a process would be able to accept almost any polymer or mix of polymers, including thermoset materials such as vulcanized rubber tires and the biopolymers in feathers and other agricultural waste. Like natural petroleum, the chemicals produced can be used as fuels or as feedstock. A RESEM Technology plant of this type in Carthage, Missouri, USA, uses turkey waste as input material. Gasification is a similar process but is not technically recycling since polymers are not likely to become the result.\nPlastic Pyrolysis can convert petroleum based waste streams such as plastics into quality fuels, carbons. Given below is the list of suitable plastic raw materials for pyrolysis:\n\nThe (ideal) recycling process can be differentiated into three loops, one for manufacture (production-waste recycling) and two for disposal of the product (product and material recycling).\n\nThe product's manufacturing phase, which consists of material processing and fabrication, forms the \"production-waste recycling\" loop. Industrial waste materials are fed back into, and reused in, the same production process.\n\nThe product's disposal process requires two recycling loops: \"product recycling\" and \"material recycling\".\nThe product or product parts are reused in the \"product recycling\" phase. This happens in one of two ways: the product is used retaining the product functionality (\"reuse\") or the product continues to be used but with altered functionality (\"further use\"). The product design is unmodified, or only slightly modified, in both scenarios.\n\nProduct disassembly requires \"material recycling\" where product materials are recovered and recycled. Ideally, the materials are processed so they can flow back into the production process.\n\nIn order to meet recyclers' needs while providing manufacturers a consistent, uniform system, a coding system was developed. The recycling code for plastics was introduced in 1988 by the plastics industry through the Society of the Plastics Industry. Because municipal recycling programs traditionally have targeted packaging—primarily bottles and containers—the resin coding system offered a means of identifying the resin content of bottles and containers commonly found in the residential waste stream.\n\nPlastic products are printed with numbers 1–7 depending on the type of resin. Type 1 (polyethylene terephthalate) is commonly found in soft drink and water bottles. Type 2 (high-density polyethylene) is found in most hard plastics such as milk jugs, laundry detergent bottles, and some dishware. Type 3 (polyvinyl chloride) includes items such as shampoo bottles, shower curtains, hula hoops, credit cards, wire jacketing, medical equipment, siding, and piping. Type 4 (low-density polyethylene) is found in shopping bags, squeezable bottles, tote bags, clothing, furniture, and carpet. Type 5 is polypropylene and makes up syrup bottles, straws, Tupperware, and some automotive parts. Type 6 is polystyrene and makes up meat trays, egg cartons, clamshell containers, and compact disc cases. Type 7 includes all other plastics such as bulletproof materials, 3- and 5-gallon water bottles, and sunglasses. Having a recycling code or the chasing arrows logo on a material is not an automatic indicator that a material is recyclable but rather an explanation of what the material is. Types 1 and 2 are the most commonly recycled.\n\nCritics dispute the net economic and environmental benefits of recycling over its costs, and suggest that proponents of recycling often make matters worse and suffer from confirmation bias. Specifically, critics argue that the costs and energy used in collection and transportation detract from (and outweigh) the costs and energy saved in the production process; also that the jobs produced by the recycling industry can be a poor trade for the jobs lost in logging, mining, and other industries associated with production; and that materials such as paper pulp can only be recycled a few times before material degradation prevents further recycling.\n\nThe National Waste and Recycling Association (NWRA), reported in May 2015, that recycling and waste made a $6.7 billion economic impact in Ohio, U.S., and employed 14,000 people.\n\nThere is some debate over whether recycling is economically efficient. According to a Natural Resources Defense Council study, waste collection and landfill disposal creates less than one job per 1,000 tons of waste material managed; in contrast, the collection, processing, and manufacturing of recycled materials creates 6–13 or more jobs per 1,000 tons. However, the cost effectiveness of creating the additional jobs remains unproven. According to the U.S. Recycling Economic Informational Study, there are over 50,000 recycling establishments that have created over a million jobs in the US.\n\nTwo years after New York City declared that implementing recycling programs would be \"a drain on the city\", New York City leaders realized that an efficient recycling system could save the city over $20 million. Municipalities often see fiscal benefits from implementing recycling programs, largely due to the reduced landfill costs. A study conducted by the Technical University of Denmark according to the Economist found that in 83 percent of cases, recycling is the most efficient method to dispose of household waste. However, a 2004 assessment by the Danish Environmental Assessment Institute concluded that incineration was the most effective method for disposing of drink containers, even aluminium ones.\n\nFiscal efficiency is separate from economic efficiency. Economic analysis of recycling does not include what economists call externalities, which are unpriced costs and benefits that accrue to individuals outside of private transactions. Examples include: decreased air pollution and greenhouse gases from incineration, reduced hazardous waste leaching from landfills, reduced energy consumption, and reduced waste and resource consumption, which leads to a reduction in environmentally damaging mining and timber activity. About 4,000 minerals are known, of which only a few hundred are relatively common. Known reserves of phosphorus will be exhausted within the next 100 years at current rates of usage. Without mechanisms such as taxes or subsidies to internalize externalities, businesses may ignore them despite the costs imposed on society. To make such nonfiscal benefits economically relevant, advocates have pushed for legislative action to increase the demand for recycled materials. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has concluded in favor of recycling, saying that recycling efforts reduced the country's carbon emissions by a net 49 million metric tonnes in 2005. In the United Kingdom, the Waste and Resources Action Programme stated that Great Britain's recycling efforts reduce CO emissions by 10–15 million tonnes a year. Recycling is more efficient in densely populated areas, as there are economies of scale involved.\n\nCertain requirements must be met for recycling to be economically feasible and environmentally effective. These include an adequate source of recyclates, a system to extract those recyclates from the waste stream, a nearby factory capable of reprocessing the recyclates, and a potential demand for the recycled products. These last two requirements are often overlooked—without both an industrial market for production using the collected materials and a consumer market for the manufactured goods, recycling is incomplete and in fact only \"collection\".\n\nFree-market economist Julian Simon remarked \"There are three ways society can organize waste disposal: (a) commanding, (b) guiding by tax and subsidy, and (c) leaving it to the individual and the market\". These principles appear to divide economic thinkers today.\n\nFrank Ackerman favours a high level of government intervention to provide recycling services. He believes that recycling's benefit cannot be effectively quantified by traditional \"laissez-faire\" economics. Allen Hershkowitz supports intervention, saying that it is a public service equal to education and policing. He argues that manufacturers should shoulder more of the burden of waste disposal.\n\nPaul Calcott and Margaret Walls advocate the second option. A deposit refund scheme and a small refuse charge would encourage recycling but not at the expense of fly-tipping. Thomas C. Kinnaman concludes that a landfill tax would force consumers, companies and councils to recycle more.\n\nMost free-market thinkers detest subsidy and intervention because they waste resources. Terry Anderson and Donald Leal think that all recycling programmes should be privately operated, and therefore would only operate if the money saved by recycling exceeds its costs. Daniel K. Benjamin argues that it wastes people's resources and lowers the wealth of a population.\n\nCertain countries trade in unprocessed recyclates. Some have complained that the ultimate fate of recyclates sold to another country is unknown and they may end up in landfills instead of being reprocessed. According to one report, in America, 50–80 percent of computers destined for recycling are actually not recycled. There are reports of illegal-waste imports to China being dismantled and recycled solely for monetary gain, without consideration for workers' health or environmental damage. Although the Chinese government has banned these practices, it has not been able to eradicate them. In 2008, the prices of recyclable waste plummeted before rebounding in 2009. Cardboard averaged about £53/tonne from 2004 to 2008, dropped to £19/tonne, and then went up to £59/tonne in May 2009. PET plastic averaged about £156/tonne, dropped to £75/tonne and then moved up to £195/tonne in May 2009.\n\nCertain regions have difficulty using or exporting as much of a material as they recycle. This problem is most prevalent with glass: both Britain and the U.S. import large quantities of wine bottled in green glass. Though much of this glass is sent to be recycled, outside the American Midwest there is not enough wine production to use all of the reprocessed material. The extra must be downcycled into building materials or re-inserted into the regular waste stream.\n\nSimilarly, the northwestern United States has difficulty finding markets for recycled newspaper, given the large number of pulp mills in the region as well as the proximity to Asian markets. In other areas of the U.S., however, demand for used newsprint has seen wide fluctuation.\n\nIn some U.S. states, a program called RecycleBank pays people to recycle, receiving money from local municipalities for the reduction in landfill space which must be purchased. It uses a single stream process in which all material is automatically sorted.\n\nMuch of the difficulty inherent in recycling comes from the fact that most products are not designed with recycling in mind. The concept of sustainable design aims to solve this problem, and was laid out in the book \"\" by architect William McDonough and chemist Michael Braungart. They suggest that every product (and all packaging it requires) should have a complete \"closed-loop\" cycle mapped out for each component—a way in which every component will either return to the natural ecosystem through biodegradation or be recycled indefinitely.\n\nWhile recycling diverts waste from entering directly into landfill sites, current recycling misses the dissipative components. Complete recycling is impracticable as highly dispersed wastes become so diluted that the energy needed for their recovery becomes increasingly excessive. \"For example, how will it ever be possible to recycle the numerous chlorinated organic hydrocarbons that have bioaccumulated in animal and human tissues across the globe, the copper dispersed in fungicides, the lead in widely applied paints, or the zinc oxides present in the finely dispersed rubber powder that is abraded from automobile tires?\"\n\nAs with environmental economics, care must be taken to ensure a complete view of the costs and benefits involved. For example, paperboard packaging for food products is more easily recycled than most plastic, but is heavier to ship and may result in more waste from spoilage.\n\nThe amount of energy saved through recycling depends upon the material being recycled and the type of energy accounting that is used. Correct accounting for this saved energy can be accomplished with life-cycle analysis using real energy values, and in addition, exergy, which is a measure of useful energy can be used. In general, it takes far less energy to produce a unit mass of recycled materials than it does to make the same mass of virgin materials.\n\nSome scholars use emergy (spelled with an m) analysis, for example, budgets for the amount of energy of one kind (exergy) that is required to make or transform things into another kind of product or service. Emergy calculations take into account economics which can alter pure physics-based results. Using emergy life-cycle analysis researchers have concluded that materials with large refining costs have the greatest potential for high recycle benefits. Moreover, the highest emergy efficiency accrues from systems geared toward material recycling, where materials are engineered to recycle back into their original form and purpose, followed by adaptive reuse systems where the materials are recycled into a different kind of product, and then by-product reuse systems where parts of the products are used to make an entirely different product.\n\nThe Energy Information Administration (EIA) states on its website that \"a paper mill uses 40 percent less energy to make paper from recycled paper than it does to make paper from fresh lumber.\" Some critics argue that it takes more energy to produce recycled products than it does to dispose of them in traditional landfill methods, since the curbside collection of recyclables often requires a second waste truck. However, recycling proponents point out that a second timber or logging truck is eliminated when paper is collected for recycling, so the net energy consumption is the same. An emergy life-cycle analysis on recycling revealed that fly ash, aluminum, recycled concrete aggregate, recycled plastic, and steel yield higher efficiency ratios, whereas the recycling of lumber generates the lowest recycle benefit ratio. Hence, the specific nature of the recycling process, the methods used to analyse the process, and the products involved affect the energy savings budgets.\n\nIt is difficult to determine the amount of energy consumed or produced in waste disposal processes in broader ecological terms, where causal relations dissipate into complex networks of material and energy flow. For example, \"cities do not follow all the strategies of ecosystem development. Biogeochemical paths become fairly straight relative to wild ecosystems, with very reduced recycling, resulting in large flows of waste and low total energy efficiencies. By contrast, in wild ecosystems, one population's wastes are another population's resources, and succession results in efficient exploitation of available resources. However, even modernized cities may still be in the earliest stages of a succession that may take centuries or millennia to complete.\" How much energy is used in recycling also depends on the type of material being recycled and the process used to do so. Aluminium is generally agreed to use far less energy when recycled rather than being produced from scratch. The EPA states that \"recycling aluminum cans, for example, saves 95 percent of the energy required to make the same amount of aluminum from its virgin source, bauxite.\" In 2009, more than half of all aluminium cans produced came from recycled aluminium.\n\nEconomist Steven Landsburg has suggested that the sole benefit of reducing landfill space is trumped by the energy needed and resulting pollution from the recycling process. Others, however, have calculated through life-cycle assessment that producing recycled paper uses less energy and water than harvesting, pulping, processing, and transporting virgin trees. When less recycled paper is used, additional energy is needed to create and maintain farmed forests until these forests are as self-sustainable as virgin forests.\n\nOther studies have shown that recycling in itself is inefficient to perform the \"decoupling\" of economic development from the depletion of non-renewable raw materials that is necessary for sustainable development. The international transportation or recycle material flows through \"... different trade networks of the three countries result in different flows, decay rates, and potential recycling returns\". As global consumption of a natural resources grows, their depletion is inevitable. The best recycling can do is to delay; complete closure of material loops to achieve 100 percent recycling of nonrenewables is impossible as micro-trace materials dissipate into the environment causing severe damage to the planet's ecosystems. Historically, this was identified as the metabolic rift by Karl Marx, who identified the unequal exchange rate between energy and nutrients flowing from rural areas to feed urban cities that create effluent wastes degrading the planet's ecological capital, such as loss in soil nutrient production. Energy conservation also leads to what is known as Jevon's paradox, where improvements in energy efficiency lowers the cost of production and leads to a rebound effect where rates of consumption and economic growth increases.\n\nThe amount of money actually saved through recycling depends on the efficiency of the recycling program used to do it. The Institute for Local Self-Reliance argues that the cost of recycling depends on various factors, such as landfill fees and the amount of disposal that the community recycles. It states that communities begin to save money when they treat recycling as a replacement for their traditional waste system rather than an add-on to it and by \"redesigning their collection schedules and/or trucks\".\n\nIn some cases, the cost of recyclable materials also exceeds the cost of raw materials. Virgin plastic resin costs 40 percent less than recycled resin. Additionally, a United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) study that tracked the price of clear glass from 15 July to 2 August 1991, found that the average cost per ton ranged from $40 to $60 while a USGS report shows that the cost per ton of raw silica sand from years 1993 to 1997 fell between $17.33 and $18.10.\n\nComparing the market cost of recyclable material with the cost of new raw materials ignores economic externalities—the costs that are currently not counted by the market. Creating a new piece of plastic, for instance, may cause more pollution and be less sustainable than recycling a similar piece of plastic, but these factors will not be counted in market cost. A life cycle assessment can be used to determine the levels of externalities and decide whether the recycling may be worthwhile despite unfavorable market costs. Alternatively, legal means (such as a carbon tax) can be used to bring externalities into the market, so that the market cost of the material becomes close to the true cost.\n\nThe recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment in India and China generates a significant amount of pollution. Informal recycling in an underground economy of these countries has generated an environmental and health disaster. High levels of lead (Pb), polybrominated diphenylethers (PBDEs), polychlorinated dioxins and furans, as well as polybrominated dioxins and furans (PCDD/Fs and PBDD/Fs), concentrated in the air, bottom ash, dust, soil, water, and sediments in areas surrounding recycling sites.\n\nEconomist Steven Landsburg, author of a paper entitled \"Why I Am Not an Environmentalist\", claimed that paper recycling actually reduces tree populations. He argues that because paper companies have incentives to replenish their forests, large demands for paper lead to large forests while reduced demand for paper leads to fewer \"farmed\" forests.\n\nWhen foresting companies cut down trees, more are planted in their place; however, such \"farmed\" forests are inferior to virgin forests in several ways. Farmed forests are not able to fix the soil as quickly as virgin forests, causing widespread soil erosion and often requiring large amounts of fertilizer to maintain while containing little tree and wild-life biodiversity compared to virgin forests. Also, the new trees planted are not as big as the trees that were cut down, and the argument that there will be \"more trees\" is not compelling to forestry advocates when they are counting saplings.\n\nIn particular, wood from tropical rainforests is rarely harvested for paper because of their heterogeneity. According to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change secretariat, the overwhelming direct cause of deforestation is subsistence farming (48% of deforestation) and commercial agriculture (32%), which is linked to food, not paper production.\n\nIn some countries, recycling is performed by the entrepreneurial poor such as the karung guni, zabbaleen, the rag-and-bone man, waste picker, and junk man. With the creation of large recycling organizations that may be profitable, either by law or economies of scale, the poor are more likely to be driven out of the recycling and the remanufacturing market. To compensate for this loss of income, a society may need to create additional forms of societal programs to help support the poor. Like the parable of the broken window, there is a net loss to the poor and possibly the whole of a society to make recycling artificially profitable, e.g. through the law. However, in Brazil and Argentina, waste pickers/informal recyclers work alongside the authorities, in fully or semi-funded cooperatives, allowing informal recycling to be legitimized as a paid public sector job.\n\nBecause the social support of a country is likely to be less than the loss of income to the poor undertaking recycling, there is a greater chance the poor will come in conflict with the large recycling organizations. This means fewer people can decide if certain waste is more economically reusable in its current form rather than being reprocessed. Contrasted to the recycling poor, the efficiency of their recycling may actually be higher for some materials because individuals have greater control over what is considered \"waste\".\n\nOne labor-intensive underused waste is electronic and computer waste. Because this waste may still be functional and wanted mostly by those on lower incomes, who may sell or use it at a greater efficiency than large recyclers.\n\nSome recycling advocates believe that laissez-faire individual-based recycling does not cover all of society's recycling needs. Thus, it does not negate the need for an organized recycling program. Local government can consider the activities of the recycling poor as contributing to property blight.\n\nChanges that have been demonstrated to increase recycling rates include:\n\n\"Between 1960 and 2000, the world production of plastic resins increased 25-fold, while recovery of the material remained below 5 percent.\" Many studies have addressed recycling behaviour and strategies to encourage community involvement in recycling programmes. It has been argued that recycling behaviour is not natural because it requires a focus and appreciation for long-term planning, whereas humans have evolved to be sensitive to short-term survival goals; and that to overcome this innate predisposition, the best solution would be to use social pressure to compel participation in recycling programmes. However, recent studies have concluded that social pressure is unviable in this context. One reason for this is that social pressure functions well in small group sizes of 50 to 150 individuals (common to nomadic hunter–gatherer peoples) but not in communities numbering in the millions, as we see today. Another reason is that individual recycling does not take place in the public view.\n\nArt objects are more and more often made from recycled material. \n\nIn a study done by social psychologist Shawn Burn, it was found that personal contact with individuals within a neighborhood is the most effective way to increase recycling within a community. In his study, he had 10 block leaders talk to their neighbors and persuade them to recycle. A comparison group was sent fliers promoting recycling. It was found that the neighbors that were personally contacted by their block leaders recycled much more than the group without personal contact. As a result of this study, Shawn Burn believes that personal contact within a small group of people is an important factor in encouraging recycling. Another study done by Stuart Oskamp examines the effect of neighbors and friends on recycling. It was found in his studies that people who had friends and neighbors that recycled were much more likely to also recycle than those who didn't have friends and neighbors that recycled.\n\nMany schools have created recycling awareness clubs in order to give young students an insight on recycling. These schools believe that the clubs actually encourage students to not only recycle at school but at home as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6747934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6747934", "title": "Sand dune ecology", "text": "Sand dune ecology\n\nSand dune ecology describes the biological and physico-chemical interactions that are a characteristic of sand dunes.\n\nSand dune systems are excellent places for biodiversity, partly because they are not very productive for agriculture, and partly because disturbed, stressful and stable habitats are present in proximity to each other. Many of them are protected as nature reserves, and some are parts of larger conservation areas, incorporating other coastal habitats like salt marches, mud flats, grasslands, scrub and woodland.\n\nSand dunes provide a range of habitats for a range of unusual, interesting and characteristic plants that can cope with disturbed habitats. In the UK these may include restharrow \"Ononis repens\", sand spurge \"Euphorbia arenaria\" and ragwort \"Senecio vulgaris\" - such plants are termed ruderals.\n\nOther very specialised plants are adapted to the accretion of sand, surviving the continual burial of their shoots by sending up very rapid vertical growth. Marram grass, \"Ammophila arenaria\" specialises in this, and is largely responsible for the formation and stabilisation of many dunes by binding sand grains together. The sand couch-grass \"Elytrigia juncea\" also performs this function on the seaward edge of the dunes, and is responsible, with some other pioneers like the sea rocket \"Cakile maritima\", for initiating the process of dune building by trapping wind blown sand.\n\nIn accreting situations small mounds of vegetation or tide-washed debris form and tend to enlarge as the wind-speed drops in the lee of the mound, allowing blowing sand (picked up from the off-shore banks) to fall out of the air stream. The pioneering plants are physiologically adapted to withstand the problems of high salt contents in the air and soil, and are good examples of stress tolerators, as well as having some ruderal characteristics.\n\nOn the inland side of dunes conditions are less severe, and links type grasslands develop with a range of grassland herbs which benefit from the reasonable nutrient status and moderately high pH of the more stable soils, especially when enough humus has accumulated in stabilised soils for water retention to be improved. Species like red fescue and lady's bedstraw are adapted to compete with each other - for nutrients, growing space and light, and are known as CSR plants - i.e. having features of Competitors, Stress tolerators and Ruderals in more or less equal proportions.\n\nThere may also be areas in old blow-outs where groundwater is near the surface, and often rises to cause flooding in the winter. Frequent, but intermittent waterlogging of the roots requires adaptations to stress, so the proportions of stress tolerators are increased here.\n\nIn nutrient-rich water, however there are some plants with very competitive strategies, like the reed (\"Phragmites australis\"). This is an example of a plant which makes rapid growth and suppresses other species by monopolising root and shoot space and shading out the opposition. Even its own seedlings are prevented from establishing within the existing population, but seeds are blown for long distances in copious quantities to start new colonies, whilst mature populations extend by rapid vegetative growth of lateral underground shoots - rhizomes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2172352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2172352", "title": "Scattering theory", "text": "Scattering theory\n\nIn mathematics and physics, scattering theory is a framework for studying and understanding the scattering of waves and particles. Wave scattering corresponds to the collision and scattering of a wave with some material object, for instance sunlight scattered by rain drops to form a rainbow. Scattering also includes the interaction of billiard balls on a table, the Rutherford scattering (or angle change) of alpha particles by gold nuclei, the Bragg scattering (or diffraction) of electrons and X-rays by a cluster of atoms, and the inelastic scattering of a fission fragment as it traverses a thin foil. More precisely, scattering consists of the study of how solutions of partial differential equations, propagating freely \"in the distant past\", come together and interact with one another or with a boundary condition, and then propagate away \"to the distant future\". The direct scattering problem is the problem of determining the distribution of scattered radiation/particle flux basing on the characteristics of the scatterer. The inverse scattering problem is the problem of determining the characteristics of an object (e.g., its shape, internal constitution) from measurement data of radiation or particles scattered from the object.\n\nSince its early statement for radiolocation, the problem has found vast number of applications, such as echolocation, geophysical survey, nondestructive testing, medical imaging and quantum field theory, to name just a few.\n\nThe concepts used in scattering theory go by different names in \ndifferent fields. The object of this section is to point the reader \nto common threads.\n\nWhen the target is a set of many scattering centers whose relative position varies unpredictably, it is customary to think of a range equation whose arguments take different forms in different application areas. In the simplest case consider an interaction that removes particles from the \"unscattered beam\" at a uniform rate that is proportional to the incident flux formula_1 of particles per unit area per unit time, i.e. that\n\nwhere \"Q\" is an interaction coefficient and \"x\" is the distance traveled in the target.\n\nThe above ordinary first-order differential equation has solutions of the form:\n\nwhere \"I\" is the initial flux, path length Δx ≡ \"x\" − \"x\", the second equality defines an interaction mean free path λ, the third uses the number of targets per unit volume η to define an area cross-section σ, and the last uses the target mass density ρ to define a density mean free path τ. Hence one converts between these quantities via \"Q\" = 1/\"λ\" = \"ησ\" = \"ρ/τ\", as shown in the figure at left.\n\nIn electromagnetic absorption spectroscopy, for example, interaction coefficient (e.g. Q in cm) is variously called opacity, absorption coefficient, and attenuation coefficient. In nuclear physics, area cross-sections (e.g. σ in barns or units of 10 cm), density mean free path (e.g. τ in grams/cm), and its reciprocal the mass attenuation coefficient (e.g. in cm/gram) or \"area per nucleon\" are all popular, while in electron microscopy the inelastic mean free path (e.g. λ in nanometers) is often discussed instead.\n\nIn mathematical physics, scattering theory is a framework for studying and understanding the interaction or scattering of solutions to partial differential equations. In acoustics, the differential equation is the wave equation, and scattering studies how its solutions, the sound waves, scatter from solid objects or propagate through non-uniform media (such as sound waves, in sea water, coming from a submarine). In the case of classical electrodynamics, the differential equation is again the wave equation, and the scattering of light or radio waves is studied. In particle physics, the equations are those of Quantum electrodynamics, Quantum chromodynamics and the Standard Model, the solutions of which correspond to fundamental particles.\n\nIn regular quantum mechanics, which includes quantum chemistry, the relevant equation is the Schrödinger equation, although equivalent formulations, such as the Lippmann-Schwinger equation and the Faddeev equations, are also largely used. The solutions of interest describe the long-term motion of free atoms, molecules, photons, electrons, and protons. The scenario is that several particles come together from an infinite distance away. These reagents then collide, optionally reacting, getting destroyed or creating new particles. The products and unused reagents then fly away to infinity again. (The atoms and molecules are effectively particles for our purposes. Also, under everyday circumstances, only photons are being created and destroyed.) The solutions reveal which directions the products are most likely to fly off to and how quickly. They also reveal the probability of various reactions, creations, and decays occurring. There are two predominant techniques of finding solutions to scattering problems: partial wave analysis, and the Born approximation.\n\nThe term \"elastic scattering\" implies that the internal states of the scattering particles do not change, and hence they emerge unchanged from the scattering process. In inelastic scattering, by contrast, the particles' internal state is changed, which may amount to exciting some of the electrons of a scattering atom, or the complete annihilation of a scattering particle and the creation of entirely new particles.\n\nThe example of scattering in quantum chemistry is particularly instructive, as the theory is reasonably complex while still having a good foundation on which to build an intuitive understanding. When two atoms are scattered off one another, one can understand them as being the bound state solutions of some differential equation. Thus, for example, the hydrogen atom corresponds to a solution to the Schrödinger equation with a negative inverse-power (i.e., attractive Coulombic) central potential. The scattering of two hydrogen atoms will disturb the state of each atom, resulting in one or both becoming excited, or even ionized, representing an inelastic scattering process.\n\nThe term \"deep inelastic scattering\" refers to a special kind of scattering experiment in particle physics.\n\nIn mathematics, scattering theory deals with a more abstract formulation of the same set of concepts. For example, if a differential equation is known to have some simple, localized solutions, and the solutions are a function of a single parameter, that parameter can take the conceptual role of time. One then asks what might happen if two such solutions are set up far away from each other, in the \"distant past\", and are made to move towards each other, interact (under the constraint of the differential equation) and then move apart in the \"future\". The scattering matrix then pairs solutions in the \"distant past\" to those in the \"distant future\".\n\nSolutions to differential equations are often posed on manifolds. Frequently, the means to the solution requires the study of the spectrum of an operator on the manifold. As a result, the solutions often have a spectrum that can be identified with a Hilbert space, and scattering is described by a certain map, the S matrix, on Hilbert spaces. Spaces with a discrete spectrum correspond to bound states in quantum mechanics, while a continuous spectrum is associated with scattering states. The study of inelastic scattering then asks how discrete and continuous spectra are mixed together.\n\nAn important, notable development is the inverse scattering transform, central to the solution of many exactly solvable models.\n\n"}
{"id": "80723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80723", "title": "South Atlantic Anomaly", "text": "South Atlantic Anomaly\n\nThe South Atlantic Anomaly (SAA) is an area where the Earth's inner Van Allen radiation belt comes closest to the Earth's surface, dipping down to an altitude of . This leads to an increased flux of energetic particles in this region and exposes orbiting satellites to higher-than-usual levels of radiation.\n\nThe effect is caused by the non-concentricity of the Earth and its magnetic dipole. The SAA is the near-Earth region where the Earth's magnetic field is weakest relative to an idealized Earth-centered dipole field.\n\nThe area of the SAA is confined by the intensity of Earth's magnetic field at less than 32,000 nanotesla at sea level, which corresponds to the dipolar magnetic field at ionospheric altitudes. However, the field itself varies in intensity as a gradient.\n\nThe Van Allen radiation belts are symmetrical about the Earth's magnetic axis, which is tilted with respect to the Earth's rotational axis by an angle of approximately 11°. The intersection between the magnetic and rotation axes of the Earth is located not at the Earth's center, but some away. Because of this asymmetry, the inner Van Allen belt is closest to the Earth's surface over the south Atlantic Ocean where it dips down to in altitude, and farthest from the Earth's surface over the north Pacific Ocean.\nIf Earth's magnetism is represented by a bar magnet of small size but strong intensity (\"magnetic dipole\"), the SAA variation can be illustrated by placing the magnet not in the plane of the Equator, but some small distance North, shifted more or less in the direction of Singapore. As a result, over northern South America and the south Atlantic, near Singapore's antipodal point, the magnetic field is relatively weak, resulting in a lower repulsion to trapped particles of the radiation belts there, and as a result these particles reach deeper into the upper atmosphere than they otherwise would.\n\nThe shape of the SAA changes over time. Since its initial discovery in 1958, the southern limits of the SAA have remained roughly constant while a long-term expansion has been measured to the northwest, the north, the northeast, and the east. Additionally, the shape and particle density of the SAA varies on a diurnal basis, with greatest particle density corresponding roughly to local noon. At an altitude of approximately , the SAA spans from geographic latitude and from longitude. The highest intensity portion of the SAA drifts to the west at a speed of about 0.3° per year, and is noticeable in the references listed below. The drift rate of the SAA is very close to the rotation differential between the Earth's core and its surface, estimated to be between 0.3° and 0.5° per year.\n\nCurrent literature suggests that a slow weakening of the geomagnetic field is one of several causes for the changes in the borders of the SAA since its discovery. As the geomagnetic field continues to weaken, the inner Van Allen belt gets closer to the Earth, with a commensurate enlargement of the SAA at given altitudes.\n\nThe South Atlantic Anomaly is of great significance to astronomical satellites and other spacecraft that orbit the Earth at several hundred kilometers altitude; these orbits take satellites through the anomaly periodically, exposing them to several minutes of strong radiation, caused by the trapped protons in the inner Van Allen belt. The International Space Station, orbiting with an inclination of 51.6°, requires extra shielding to deal with this problem. The Hubble Space Telescope does not take observations while passing through the SAA. Astronauts are also affected by this region, which is said to be the cause of peculiar \"shooting stars\" (phosphenes) seen in the visual field of astronauts, an effect termed the cosmic ray visual phenomena. Passing through the South Atlantic Anomaly is thought to be the reason for the failures of the Globalstar network's satellites in 2007.\n\nThe PAMELA experiment, while passing through the SAA, detected antiproton levels that were orders of magnitude higher than expected. This suggests the Van Allen belt confines antiparticles produced by the interaction of the Earth's upper atmosphere with cosmic rays.\n\nNASA has reported that modern laptops have crashed when Space Shuttle flights passed through the anomaly.\n\nIn October 2012, the SpaceX CRS-1 Dragon spacecraft attached to the International Space Station experienced a transient problem as it passed through the anomaly.\n\nThe SAA is believed to have started a series of events leading to the destruction of the Hitomi, Japan's most powerful X-ray observatory. The anomaly transiently disabled a direction-finding mechanism, causing the satellite to rely solely on gyroscopes that were not working properly, after which it spun itself apart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10610469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10610469", "title": "Theory of tides", "text": "Theory of tides\n\nThe theory of tides is the application of continuum mechanics to interpret and predict the tidal deformations of planetary and satellite bodies and their atmospheres and oceans (especially Earth's Ocean) under the gravitational loading of another astronomical body or bodies (especially the Moon).\n\nIn 1609 Johannes Kepler correctly suggested that the gravitation of the Moon causes the tides, basing his argument upon ancient observations and correlations. The influence of the Moon on tides was mentioned in Ptolemy's \"Tetrabiblos\" as having derived from ancient observation.\n\nIn 1616, Galileo Galilei wrote \"Discourse on the Tides\" (\"Discorso sul flusso e il reflusso del mare\"), in a letter to Cardinal Orsini. In this discourse, he tried to explain the occurrence of the tides as the result of the Earth's rotation and revolution around the Sun. Galileo believed that the oceans moved like water in a large basin: as the basin moves, so does the water. Therefore, as the Earth revolves, the force of the Earth's rotation causes the oceans to \"alternately accelerate and retardate\". His view on the oscillation and \"alternately accelerated and retardated\" motion of the Earth's rotation is a \"dynamic process\" that deviated from the previous dogma, which proposed \"a process of expansion and contraction of seawater.\" However, Galileo's theory was erroneous. In subsequent centuries, further analysis led to the current tidal physics. Galileo rejected Kepler's explanation of the tides.\n\nNewton, in the \"Principia\", provided a correct explanation for the tidal force, which can be used to explain tides on a planet covered by a uniform ocean, but which takes no account of the distribution of the continents or ocean bathymetry.\n\nThe dynamic theory of tides describes and predicts the actual real behavior of ocean tides.\nWhile Newton explained the tides by describing the tide-generating forces and Bernoulli gave a description of the static reaction of the waters on Earth to the tidal potential, the \"dynamic theory of tides\", developed by Pierre-Simon Laplace in 1775, describes the ocean's real reaction to tidal forces. Laplace's theory of ocean tides took into account friction, resonance and natural periods of ocean basins. It predicted the large amphidromic systems in the world's ocean basins and explains the oceanic tides that are actually observed. The equilibrium theory, based on the gravitational gradient from the Sun and Moon but ignoring the Earth's rotation, the effects of continents, and other important effects, could not explain the real ocean tides. Since measurements have confirmed the theory, many things have possible explanations now, like how the tides interact with deep sea ridges and chains of seamounts give rise to deep eddies that transport nutrients from the deep to the surface. The equilibrium tide theory calculates the height of the tide wave of less than half a meter, while the dynamic theory explains why tides are up to 15 meters. Satellite observations confirm the accuracy of the dynamic theory, and the tides worldwide are now measured to within a few centimeters. Measurements from the CHAMP satellite closely match the models based on the TOPEX data. Accurate models of tides worldwide are essential for research since the variations due to tides must be removed from measurements when calculating gravity and changes in sea levels.\n\nIn 1776, Pierre-Simon Laplace formulated a single set of linear partial differential equations, for tidal flow described as a barotropic two-dimensional sheet flow. Coriolis effects are introduced as well as lateral forcing by gravity. Laplace obtained these equations by simplifying the fluid dynamic equations. But they can also be derived from energy integrals via Lagrange's equation.\n\nFor a fluid sheet of average thickness \"D\", the vertical tidal elevation \"ζ\", as well as the horizontal velocity components \"u\" and \"v\" (in the latitude \"φ\" and longitude \"λ\" directions, respectively) satisfy Laplace's tidal equations:\nwhere \"Ω\" is the angular frequency of the planet's rotation, \"g\" is the planet's gravitational acceleration at the mean ocean surface, \"a\" is the planetary radius, and \"U\" is the external gravitational tidal-forcing potential.\n\nWilliam Thomson (Lord Kelvin) rewrote Laplace's momentum terms using the curl to find an equation for vorticity. Under certain conditions this can be further rewritten as a conservation of vorticity.\n\nLaplace's improvements in theory were substantial, but they still left prediction in an approximate state. This position changed in the 1860s when the local circumstances of tidal phenomena were more fully brought into account by William Thomson's application of Fourier analysis to the tidal motions as harmonic analysis.\n\nThomson's work in this field was then further developed and extended by George Darwin, applying the lunar theory current in his time. Darwin's symbols for the tidal harmonic constituents are still used.\n\nDarwin's harmonic developments of the tide-generating forces were later improved when A T Doodson, applying the lunar theory of E W Brown, developed the tide-generating potential (TGP) in harmonic form, distinguishing 388 tidal frequencies. Doodson's work was carried out and published in 1921.\n\nDoodson devised a practical system for specifying the different harmonic components of the tide-generating potential, the Doodson numbers, a system still in use.\n\nSince the mid-twentieth century further analysis has generated many more terms than Doodson's 388. About 62 constituents are of sufficient size to be considered for possible use in marine tide prediction, but sometimes many fewer can predict tides to useful accuracy. The calculations of tide predictions using the harmonic constituents are laborious, and from the 1870s to about the 1960s they were carried out using a mechanical tide-predicting machine, a special-purpose form of analog computer now superseded in this work by digital electronic computers that can be programmed to carry out the same computations.\n\nTidal constituents combine to give an endlessly varying aggregate because of their different and incommensurable frequencies: the effect is visualized in an animation of the American Mathematical Society illustrating the way in which the components used to be mechanically combined in the tide-predicting machine. Amplitudes of tidal constituents are given below for six example locations:\nEastport, Maine (ME), Biloxi, Mississippi (MS), San Juan, Puerto Rico (PR), Kodiak, Alaska (AK), San Francisco, California (CA), and Hilo, Hawaii (HI).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "448512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448512", "title": "Top End", "text": "Top End\n\nThe Top End of Australia's Northern Territory is a geographical region encompassing the northernmost section of the Northern Territory, which aside from the Cape York Peninsula is the northernmost part of the Australian continent. It covers a rather vaguely defined area of perhaps behind the northern coast from the Northern Territory capital of Darwin across to Arnhem Land with the Indian Ocean on the west, the Arafura Sea to the north, and the Gulf of Carpentaria to the east, and with the almost waterless semi-arid interior of Australia to the south, beyond the huge Kakadu National Park.\n\nThe Top End contains both of the Territory's cities and one of its major towns, Darwin, Palmerston and Katherine. The well-known town of Alice Springs is located further south, in the arid southern part of the Northern Territory, sometimes referred to by Australians as the \"Red Centre\".\n\nThe landscape is relatively flat with river floodplains and grasslands with eucalyptus trees along with rocky areas and patches of rainforest, and in western Arnhem Land a high rugged sandstone plateau cut through with gorges, much of which is in Kakadu National Park. The rivers that form the wetlands include the South and East Alligator Rivers, Mary River, and the Glyde River. The climate is tropical monsoon with a wet and dry season, bringing the highest rainfall in northern Australia (over per year). Temperatures do not fluctuate widely throughout the year.\n\nThere are a number of islands off the Top End coast including the Tiwi Islands (Bathurst Island and Melville Island), and Groote Eylandt as well as many smaller ones.\n\nMost savanna in Australia is used for grazing livestock, but in this far north, vast areas of grassland are in their original state and dotted with Darwin stringybark and Darwin woollybutt eucalyptus trees; these grasslands are a unique and highly important ecoregion. The sandstone plateau area of the ecoregion is a particularly rich centre of biodiversity supporting a unique heathland flora. Much of the Top End is within the Arnhem Land tropical savanna ecoregion, which to the south merges into the semi-arid mulga scrubland, mallee, and sand dunes of the centre (see Carpentaria, Kimberley, and Ord Victoria Plain). The transition is gradual, and the demarcation line that divides the Top End from the centre is arbitrary.\n\nThis area is home to unique wildlife. The rivers and estuaries are home to large populations of both saltwater and freshwater crocodiles, as well as bull sharks, sawfish, and dugongs. The wetlands are a rich habitat vital to bird migration and home to large populations of birds, including the world's largest breeding colony of magpie geese, as well as large numbers of rodents and snakes. Endemic species of the Top End include the Woodward's wallaroo, Oenpelli python, chestnut-quilled rock-pigeon, Arnhem Land rock rat, and several species of skinks. Other reptiles include frill-necked lizards and large monitor lizards (known locally as goannas). Snakes include the olive python, death adder (\"Acanthophis\"), mulga, water python (\"Liasis fuscus\"), and various others. The plateau is home to many of these endemics, especially invertebrates, fish, and frogs, including, for example, hundreds of species of ants. The offshore islands are home to unique subspecies of some of this wildlife.\n\nThe landscape is well preserved and most of the area is traditionally managed by Aboriginal land trusts, including Kakadu National Park, which is Australia's largest national park and a World Heritage Site. Although some populations have declined, there have been no major extinctions of wildlife in this area. Darwin, though, is a growing city and a base for agriculture and mining, both of which threaten habitats. Introduced plants and animals, such as the water buffalo, are also changing natural habitats, and there has been criticism of the way the local population has changed the fire regimes used to control the bush foliage, in which large areas are burnt each year and allowed to renew. Also there was a large aboriginal trade in that area which has mostly settled down.\n"}
{"id": "82972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82972", "title": "Tyche", "text": "Tyche\n\nTyche (; \"luck\"; Roman equivalent: Fortuna) was the presiding tutelary deity who governed the fortune and prosperity of a city, its destiny. In Classical Greek mythology, she is the daughter of Aphrodite and Zeus or Hermes.\n\nIn literature, she might be given various genealogies, as a daughter of Hermes and Aphrodite, or considered as one of the Oceanids, daughters of Oceanus, and Tethys, or of Zeus. She was connected with Nemesis and Agathos Daimon (\"good spirit\").\n\nThe Greek historian Polybius believed that when no cause can be discovered to events such as floods, droughts, frosts, or even in politics, then the cause of these events may be fairly attributed to Tyche.\n\nIncreasingly during the Hellenistic period, cities venerated their own specific iconic version of Tyche, wearing a mural crown (a crown like the walls of the city).\n\nTyche had temples at Caesarea Maritima, Antioch, Alexandria, and Constantinople. In Alexandria the \"Tychaeon\", the Greek temple of Tyche, was described by Libanius as one of the most magnificent of the entire Hellenistic world.\n\nShe was uniquely venerated at Itanos in Crete, as \"Tyche Protogeneia\", linked with the Athenian Protogeneia (\"firstborn\"), daughter of Erechtheus, whose self-sacrifice saved the city. \n\nStylianos Spyridacis concisely expressed Tyche's appeal in a Hellenistic world of arbitrary violence and unmeaning reverses: \"In the turbulent years of the Epigoni of Alexander, an awareness of the instability of human affairs led people to believe that Tyche, the blind mistress of Fortune, governed mankind with an inconstancy which explained the vicissitudes of the time.\"\n\nTyche appears on many coins of the Hellenistic period in the three centuries before the Christian era, especially from cities in the Aegean. Unpredictable turns of fortune drive the complicated plotlines of Hellenistic romances, such as, \"Leucippe and Clitophon\" or \"Daphnis and Chloe\". She experienced a resurgence in another era of uneasy change, the final days of publicly sanctioned Paganism, between the late-fourth-century emperors Julian and Theodosius I, who definitively closed the temples. The effectiveness of her capricious power even achieved respectability in philosophical circles during that generation, although among poets it was a commonplace to revile her for a fickle harlot.\n\nIn medieval art, she was depicted as carrying a cornucopia (horn of plenty), an emblematic gubernaculum (ship's rudder), and the wheel of fortune, or she may stand on the wheel, presiding over the entire circle of fate.\n\nThe constellation of Virgo is sometimes identified as the heavenly figure of Tyche, as well as other goddesses such as Demeter and Astraea.\n\n"}
{"id": "6204818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6204818", "title": "U.S. Coast Guard environmental protection", "text": "U.S. Coast Guard environmental protection\n\nMarine environmental protection is one of the eleven missions of the United States Coast Guard (USCG).\n\nThere are five areas of emphasis in the marine environmental protection (MEP) mission. These areas cover virtually every aspect of oil and chemical response, and provide the goals and objectives for Coast Guard initiatives.\n\nThe five areas are:\n"}
{"id": "30385324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30385324", "title": "Vikna Wind Farm", "text": "Vikna Wind Farm\n\nVikna Wind Farm () is located on Husfjellet, just west of the village of Garstad on the island Mellom-Vikna in the municipality of Vikna in Trøndelag county, Norway. The wind farm consists of five wind turbines, with an installed capacity of (calculated as 3 x 0.4 MW + 2 x 0.5 MW), with an average annual production of . The wind farm began operation in 1991 and is owned by Nord-Trøndelag Elektrisitetsverk.\n"}
{"id": "37952293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37952293", "title": "Washington &amp; Jefferson College Energy Index", "text": "Washington &amp; Jefferson College Energy Index\n\nThe Washington & Jefferson College Energy Index is an index measuring American energy independence. The Index describes the amount of energy produced in America versus the total energy consumption in America. On a scale of 1 to 100, 1 represents total dependence and 100 represents total independence. In 2012, the Index was 74. Regional figures are produced, and historical figures have been developed back to 1949. The Index showed that by 2012, American energy independence had decreased by 22% since the tenure of President Harry Truman.\n\nThe Index is authored by Professors Leslie Dunn and Robert Dunn, of the Washington & Jefferson College Department of Economics and Business. The Index utilizes publicly available energy data, analyzed with a proprietary algorithm. Additionally, the energy index has also been used to analyze more local energy use, including Washington & Jefferson College energy use in dormitories from 2001-2012.\n\nThe index is reproduced as an infographic by the Associated Press for national distribution.\n\nThe Index was unveiled in 2012's W&J Energy Summit, with Susan Eisenhower, of The Eisenhower Institute, and journalist Eleanor Clift leading the discussions.\n"}
{"id": "20367260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20367260", "title": "Wild Animals I Have Known", "text": "Wild Animals I Have Known\n\nWild Animals I Have Known is an 1898 book by naturalist and author Ernest Thompson Seton. The first entry in a new genre of realistic wild-animal fiction, Seton's first collection of short stories quickly became one of the most popular books of its day. \"Lobo the King of Currumpaw\", the first story in the collection, was based upon Seton's experience hunting wolves in the southwestern United States. It became a classic, setting the tone for his future works that would similarly depict animals—especially predators who were often demonized in literature—as compassionate, individualistic beings.\n\nSeveral years after its publication, Seton and his works came under fire during the nature fakers controversy, which began in 1903 when naturalist John Burroughs published an essay called \"Real and Sham Natural History\" in \"The Atlantic Monthly\". In particular Burroughs blamed Seton's collection of stories for founding the sentimental animal story genre, which he felt featured fabricated events and wild animal behaviors; he even amended the title of the collection to \"Wild Animals I\" Alone \"Have Known\".\n\n"}
