{"id": "26774013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26774013", "title": "Association of Personal Injury Lawyers", "text": "Association of Personal Injury Lawyers\n\nThe Association of Personal Injury Lawyers (APIL) is a not-for-profit organisation comprising about 3,800 personal injury solicitors, barristers, academics and students.\n\nThe association was founded in 1990 by a group of barristers and solicitors who wished to improve the services provided for victims of negligence. Its four founders are Rodger Pannone, Michael Napier CBE, John Melville Williams QC, and Simon Walton.\n\nAPIL runs an accreditation scheme which assesses personal injury lawyers according to their expertise and experience. Lawyers who gain this accreditation kitemark have at least five years' experience of handling personal injury claims, and are known as senior litigators, fellows or senior fellows, depending on the amount of experience they have. The scheme is overseen by an independent Academic Quality Council.\n\nAll APIL members are bound to abide by a code of conduct and consumer charter.\n\nAPIL holds regular meetings with Government ministers, MPs, civil servants and opinion formers on campaigns for reform in the law, including:\n\n\nPrimary services and aims of the APIL are:\n\nAPIL is governed by 18 elected executive committee members. The committee is led by a president, vice president, secretary and treasurer.\n\nThe current president is Brett Dixon.\n"}
{"id": "19972051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19972051", "title": "Atiyah's Accidents, Compensation and the Law", "text": "Atiyah's Accidents, Compensation and the Law\n\nAtiyah's Accidents, Compensation and the Law (2006) is a legal text, which marked the first of Cambridge University Press's \"Law in Context\" series. It was originally authored by English legal scholar, Patrick Atiyah in 1970 and has been taken over by Professor Peter Cane since the 4th edition in 1987. The thrust of the book is that the law of tort should be abolished, especially as relates to the law on personal injuries, and should be replaced with a no fault state compensation system. Its arguments are in tune with the establishment in the 1970s of such a system in New Zealand, with the Accident Compensation Commission.\n\nAfter handing over the book, Atiyah changed his mind, and wrote \"The Damages Lottery\" (1997) where instead of a state run system, he advocated abolition of tort and that people should buy personal safety insurance. Professor Cane, however has kept \"Atiyah's Accidents\" in line with the title's original thesis.\n\nOne of the book's main point is its stinging criticism of the fault principle. This is the principle that finds the party that is to blame before compensating the victim in personal injury cases. This then implies that if fault cannot be attributed, there can be no attribution of liability, and thus a victim of an accident may not receive compensation. Atiyah proposed six major criticisms of the system, which suggest that liability in personal injury claims should not focus on the relationship between the claimant and defendant, but between the parties and society. His examples were primarily concerned with road traffic accidents\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45514572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45514572", "title": "Bahraini nationality law", "text": "Bahraini nationality law\n\nBahraini nationality law states who is a citizen of Bahrain. Foreigners are rarely given citizenship.\n\nChildren born to a foreign father who himself is born in Bahrain and has a Permanent Resident Permit or born to unknown parents are Bahraini citizens by birth.\nChildren born to a Bahraini father or an unknown or stateless father and Bahraini mother irrespective of the place of birth are Bahraini citizens by descent.\nForeign woman who marry a Bahraini man has right to Bahraini citizenship. If a Bahraini woman marries a foreign man she will lose her citizenship unless she wants to keep it. If she divorces \"and\" returns to country she has the right to citizenship.\n\nForeigner may acquire citizenship through the following ways:\nThe wife and minor children of a recently naturalized man are considered to be naturalized citizens also.\n\nA naturalized Bahraini citizen may lose citizenship in the following ways:\n\nA Bahraini citizen may be denaturalized in the following cases:\n\nIn February 2018, Bahraini citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 78 countries and territories, ranking the Bahraini passport 55th in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n"}
{"id": "18863182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18863182", "title": "Banque Financière de la Cité v Parc (Battersea) Ltd", "text": "Banque Financière de la Cité v Parc (Battersea) Ltd\n\nBanque Financiere de la Cite v Parc (Battersea) Ltd [1998] UKHL 7 is an English unjust enrichment case, concerning the framework for a claim.\n\nA company named Parc (Battersea) Ltd had got a loan from a bank called Royal Trust Bank (Switzerland), and given charge over its Battersea land as security. Parc Ltd got a second loan from Omnicorp Overseas Ltd (which was part of the same group, and whose parent was managed by Mr Herzig), which got another charge. Banque Financiere de la Cite, a Swiss bank, gave Parc Ltd a third loan of DM30million but got no charge. Instead it got a ‘postponement letter’ saying other companies in the group (including OOL) would not enforce their charges until BFC had been paid. Parc Ltd used the loan to pay off RTB. But OOL had given no authority to Parc Ltd to give that letter. Parc Ltd went insolvent. BFC claimed subrogation to be paid in priority of OOL, but OOL contested.\n\nThe House of Lords held that BFC should be subrogated in priority to OOL, because this was the ultimate intention of the letter, and otherwise OOL would be unjustly enriched by the advance of the loan. Lord Steyn said the following.\n\nLord Griffiths concurred. Lord Hoffmann said the following on the principles behind liability in unjust enrichment.\n\nLord Clyde agreed, saying the claim was based in unjust enrichment, or \"nemo debet locupletari aliena jactura\". Lord Hutton also concurred.\n\n"}
{"id": "11816522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11816522", "title": "Beth Din of America", "text": "Beth Din of America\n\nThe Beth Din of America is a Beth Din (Court of Jewish Law) which serves Jews throughout the United States of America as a forum for arbitrating disputes through the din torah process, obtaining Jewish divorces, and confirming Jewish personal status issues.\n\nIt was founded in 1960 and reconstituted in 1994. The focus of Beth Din of America is on areas of family law, Jewish divorce and personal status, as well as adjudication of financial disputes. The Beth Din is affiliated with the Rabbinical Council of America (RCA) and is sponsored by the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America.\n\nThe current director of the Beth Din is Rabbi Shlomo Weissmann, who succeeded Rabbi Yona Reiss in 2008. \n\nIn 2014, Dr. Michelle Friedman became the first woman on the Beth Din of America’s board of directors. \n\nThe members of the Beth Din are:\n"}
{"id": "53259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53259", "title": "Cable modem", "text": "Cable modem\n\nA cable modem is a type of network bridge that provides bi-directional data communication via radio frequency channels on a hybrid fibre-coaxial (HFC) and radio frequency over glass (RFoG) infrastructure. Cable modems are primarily used to deliver broadband Internet access in the form of cable Internet, taking advantage of the high bandwidth of a HFC and RFoG network. They are commonly deployed in Australia, Europe, Asia and America.\n\nInternet Experiment Note (IEN) 96 (1979) describes an early RF cable modem system. From pages 2 and 3 of IEN 96:\nThe Cable-Bus System\n\nThe MITRE/Washington Cablenet system is based on a technology developed at MITRE/Bedford. Similar cable-bus systems are in operation at a number of government sites, e.g. Walter Reed Army Hospital, and the NASA Johnson Space Center, but these are all standalone, local-only networks.\n\nThe system uses standard Community Antenna Television (CATV) coaxial cable and microprocessor based Bus Interface Units (BIUs) to connect subscriber computers and terminals to the cable. ... The cable bus consists of two parallel coaxial cables, one inbound and the other outbound. The inbound cable and outbound cable are connected at one end, the headend, and electrically terminated at their other ends. This architecture takes advantage of the well developed unidirectional CATV components. The topology is dendritic (i.e. branched like a tree).\nThe BIUs contain Radio Frequency (RF) modems which modulate a carrier signal to transmit digital information using 1 MHz of the available bandwidth in the 24 MHz frequency range. The remainder of the 294 MHz bandwidth can be used to carry other communication channels, such as off-the-air TV, FM, closed circuit TV, or a voice telephone system, or, other digital channels. The data rate of our test-bed system is 307.2 kbps.\n\nThe IEEE 802 Committee defined 10BROAD36 in 802.3b-1985 as a 10 Mbit/s IEEE 802.3/Ethernet broadband system to run up to over CATV coax network cabling. The word \"broadband\" as used in the original IEEE 802.3 specifications implied operation in frequency-division multiplexed (FDM) channel bands as opposed to digital \"baseband\" square-waveform modulations (also known as line coding), which begin near zero Hz and theoretically consume infinite frequency bandwidth. (In real-world systems, higher-order signal components become indistinguishable from background noise.) In the market 10BROAD36 equipment was not developed by many vendors nor deployed in many user networks as compared to equipment for IEEE 802.3/Ethernet baseband standards such as 10BASE5 (1983), 10BASE2 (1985), 10BASE-T (1990), etc.\n\nThe IEEE 802 Committee also specified a broadband CATV digital networking standard in 1989 with 802.7-1989. However, like 10BROAD36, 802.7-1989 saw little commercial success.\n\nHybrid Networks developed, demonstrated and patented the first high-speed, asymmetrical cable modem system in 1990. A key Hybrid Networks insight was that in the nascent days of the Internet, data downloading constitutes the majority of the data traffic, and this can be served adequately with a highly asymmetrical data network (i.e. a large downstream data pipe and many small upstream data pipes). This allowed CATV operators to offer high speed data services immediately without first requiring an expensive system upgrade. Also key was that it saw that the upstream and downstream communications could be on the same or different communications media using different protocols working in each direction to establish a closed loop communications system. The speeds and protocols used in each direction would be very different. The earliest systems used the public switched telephone network (PSTN) for the return path since very few cable systems were bi-directional. Later systems used CATV for the upstream as well as the downstream path. Hybrid's system architecture is used for most cable modem systems today.\n\nLANcity was an early pioneer in cable modems, developing a proprietary system that was widely deployed in the U.S. LANcity, which was led by the Iranian-American engineer Rouzbeh Yassini, was then acquired by Nortel, which eventually spun the cable modem business off as ARRIS. ARRIS continues to make cable modems and CMTS equipment compliant with the DOCSIS standard.\n\nZenith offered a cable modem technology using its own protocol which it introduced in 1993, being one of the first cable modem providers. The Zenith Cable Modem technology was used by several cable television systems in the United States and other countries, including Cox Communications San Diego, Knology in the Southeast United States, Ameritech's Americast service (later to be sold off to Wide Open West after the SBC / Ameritech merger), Cogeco in Hamilton Ontario and Cablevision du Nord de Québec in Val-d'Or. Zenith Homeworks used BPSK (Bi-Phase Shift Keyed) modulation to achieve 500 Kbit/sec in 600 kHz, or 4 Mbit/sec in 6 MHz.\n\nCom21 was another early pioneer in cable modems, and quite successful until proprietary systems were made obsolete by the DOCSIS standardization. The Com21 system used a \"ComController\" as central bridge in CATV network head-ends, the ComPort cable modem in various models and the NMAPS management system using HP OpenView as platform. Later they also introduced a return path multiplexer to overcome noise problems when combining return path signals from multiple areas. The proprietary protocol was based on Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM). The central ComController switch was a modular system offering one downstream channel (transmitter) and one management module. The remaining slots could be used for upstream receivers (2 per card), dual Ethernet 10BaseT and later also Fast-Ethernet and ATM interfaces. The ATM interface became the most popular, as it supported the increasing bandwidth demands and also supported VLANs.\nCom21 developed a DOCSIS modem, but the company filed for bankruptcy in 2003 and closed. The DOCSIS CMTS assets of COM21 were acquired by ARRIS.\n\nCDLP was a proprietary system manufactured by Motorola. CDLP customer premises equipment (CPE) was capable of both PSTN (telephone network) and radio frequency (cable network) return paths. The PSTN-based service was considered 'one-way cable' and had many of the same drawbacks as satellite Internet service; as a result, it quickly gave way to \"two-way cable.\" Cable modems that used the RF cable network for the return path were considered 'two-way cable', and were better able to compete with the bi-directional digital subscriber line (DSL) service. The standard is in little use now while new providers use, and existing providers having changed to the DOCSIS standard. The Motorola CDLP proprietary CyberSURFR is an example of a device that was built to the CDLP standard, capable of a peak 10 Mbit/s downstream and 1.532 Mbit/s upstream. CDLP supported a maximum downstream bandwidth of 30 Mbit/s which could be reached by using several cable modems.\n\nThe Australian ISP BigPond employed this system when it started cable modem tests in 1996. For a number of years cable Internet access was only available in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane via CDLP. This network ran parallel to the newer DOCSIS system for several years. In 2004, the CDLP network was terminated and replaced by DOCSIS.\n\nCDLP has been also rolled out at the French cable operator Numericable before upgrading its IP broadband network using DOCSIS.\n\nDigital Video Broadcasting (DVB) and Digital Audio Visual Council (DAVIC) are European-formed organizations that developed some cable modem standards. However, these standards have not been as widely adopted as DOCSIS.\n\nIn the mid-1990s the IEEE 802 committee formed a subcommittee (802.14) to develop a standard for cable modem systems. IEEE 802.14 developed a draft standard, which was ATM-based. However, the 802.14 working group was disbanded when North American multi system operators (MSOs) instead backed the then-fledgling DOCSIS 1.0 specification, which generally used best efforts service and was IP-based (with extension codepoints to support ATM for QoS in the future). MSOs were interested in quickly deploying service to compete for broadband Internet access customers instead of waiting on the slower, iterative, and deliberative processes of standards development committees. Albert A. Azzam was Secretary of the IEEE 802.14 Working Group, and his book, \"High-Speed Cable Modems\", describes many of the proposals submitted to 802.14.\n\nAlthough the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) generally does not generate complete cable modem standards, the IETF chartered Working Groups (WGs) that produced various standards related to cable modem technologies (including 802.14, DOCSIS, PacketCable, and others). In particular, the IETF WGs on IP over Cable Data Network (IPCDN) and IP over Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB) produced some standards applicable to cable modem systems, primarily in the areas of Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) Management Information Bases (MIBs) for cable modems and other networking equipment that operates over CATV networks.\n\nIn the late 1990s, a consortium of US cable operators, known as \"MCNS\" formed to quickly develop an open and interoperable cable modem specification. The group essentially combined technologies from the two dominant proprietary systems at the time, taking the physical layer from the Motorola CDLP system and the MAC layer from the LANcity system. When the initial specification had been drafted, the MCNS consortium handed over control of it to CableLabs which maintained the specification, promoted it in various standards organizations (notably SCTE and ITU), developed a certification testing program for cable modem equipment, and has since drafted multiple extensions to the original specification.\n\nWhile deployed DOCSIS RFI 1.0 equipment generally only supports best efforts service, the DOCSIS RFI 1.0 Interim-01 document discussed QoS extensions and mechanisms using IntServ, RSVP, RTP, and Synchronous Transfer Mode (STM) telephony (as opposed to ATM). DOCSIS RFI 1.1 later added more robust and standardized QoS mechanisms to DOCSIS. DOCSIS 2.0 added support for S-CDMA PHY, while DOCSIS 3.0 added IPv6 support and channel bonding to allow a single cable modem to use concurrently more than one upstream channel and more than one downstream channel in parallel.\n\nVirtually all cable modems operating in the field today are compliant with one of the DOCSIS versions. Because of the differences in the European PAL and USA's NTSC systems two main versions of DOCSIS exist, DOCSIS and EuroDOCSIS. The main differences are found in the width of RF-channels: 6 MHz for the USA and 8 MHz for Europe. A third variant of DOCSIS was developed in Japan and has seen limited deployment in that country.\n\nAlthough interoperability was the whole point of the DOCSIS project, most cable operators only approve a very restricted list of cable modems on their network, identifying the 'allowed' modems by their brand, models, sometimes firmware version and occasionally going as far as imposing a hardware version of the modem, instead of simply allowing a supported DOCSIS version as it should. From this point of view, the DOCSIS standard has failed to provide the promised practical interoperability for the end user.\n\nIn 2004, the Multimedia over Coax Alliance (MoCA) was established to develop industry standard for the connected home, using the existing coaxial cabling. Initially developed for in-home networking with MoCA 1.0/1.1, the MoCA standards has continued to develop with MoCA 2.0/2.1 in 2010 and MoCa 2.5 in 2016.\n\nIn 2017, Multimedia over Coax Alliance introduced MoCA Access specification, based on the MoCA 2.5 standard, suitable for addressing broadband network access in-building using coaxial cabling . MoCA Access extends MoCA 2.5 in-home networking to fit operators and ISPs that are installing fiber-to-the-basement/drop point (FTTB/FTTdp) and want to use the existing coax for connection to each apartment or house.\"\n\nWith the development of voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) telephony, analog telephone adapters (ATA) have been incorporated into many cable modems for providing telephone service. An embedded ATA is known as an \"embedded multimedia terminal adapter\" (E-MTA).\n\nMany cable TV service providers also offer VoIP-based telephone service via the cable infrastructure (PacketCable). Some high-speed Internet customers may use VoIP telephony by subscribing to a third-party service, such as Vonage, MagicJack+ and NetTALK.\n\nIn network topology, a cable modem is a network bridge that conforms to IEEE 802.1D for Ethernet networking (with some modifications). The cable modem bridges Ethernet frames between a customer LAN and the coax network. Technically, it is a modem because it must modulate data to transmit it over the cable network, and it must demodulate data from the cable network to receive it.\n\nWith respect to the OSI model of network design, a cable modem is both Physical Layer (Layer 1) device and a Data Link Layer (Layer 2) forwarder. As an IP addressable network node, cable modems support functionality at other layers.\n\nLayer 1 is implemented in the Ethernet PHY on its LAN interface, and a DOCSIS defined cable-specific PHY on its HFC cable interface. The term \"cable modem\" refers to this cable-specific PHY. The Network Layer (Layer 3) is implemented as an IP host in that it has its own IP address used by the network operator to maintain the device. In the Transport Layer (Layer 4) the cable modem supports UDP in association with its own IP address, and it supports filtering based on TCP and UDP port numbers to, for example, block forwarding of NetBIOS traffic out of the customer's LAN. In the Application Layer (Layer 7), the cable modem supports certain protocols that are used for management and maintenance, notably Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP), SNMP, and TFTP.\n\nSome cable modems may incorporate a router and a DHCP server to provide the LAN with IP network addressing. From a data forwarding and network topology perspective, this router functionality is typically kept distinct from the cable modem functionality (at least logically) even though the two may share a single enclosure and appear as one unit, sometimes called a residential gateway. So, the cable modem function will have its own IP address and MAC address as will the router.\n\nCable modems can have a problem known in industry jargon as \"flap\" or \"flapping\". A modem flap is when the connection by the modem to the head-end has been dropped (gone offline) and then comes back online. The time offline or rate of flap is not typically recorded, only the incidence. While this is a common occurrence and usually unnoticed, if a modem's flap is extremely high, these disconnects can cause service to be disrupted. If there are usability problems due to flap the typical cause is a defective modem or very high amounts of traffic on the service provider's network (upstream utilization too high). Types of flap include reinsertions, hits and misses, and power adjustments.\n\n"}
{"id": "23778677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23778677", "title": "Catholic University Law Review", "text": "Catholic University Law Review\n\nThe Catholic University Law Review is a student-run quarterly law review published by the Columbus School of Law (The Catholic University of America).\n\nThe journal was established in 1950 and is the Columbus School of Law's oldest legal journal. Recent issues have featured analysis on such topics as the legal status of records and archives in war, the proper role of poverty in determining an indigent defendant's civil right to counsel, the material-support bar and the challenges it poses for modern immigration practitioners, the correct standard of proof for incapacity will contests, a fiftieth anniversary review of the \"Steelworkers Trilogy\", the battle over Passenger Name Records and its role in the attempted Christmas Day bombing, and the application of sound negotiation theory to the written demand.\n\nThe \"Catholic University Law Review\" publishes articles, book reviews, and essays, in addition to notes and comments written by student staff members. Its 2016 impact factor is 0.309, ranking it 125th among 149 journals listed in the \"Law\" category of the \"Journal Citation Reports\".\n\nNotable alumni include Chief Judge Edward J. Damich of the United States Court of Federal Claims, Judge Stephanie Duncan-Peters of the District of Columbia Superior Court, and Ralph Rohner, a former dean of the law school and an expert in commercial and consumer law.\n\nThe \"Law Review\" selects approximately 50 second- and third-year law students for membership. This selection occurs through the Law School's writing competition and students' academic performance. During the spring semester, first- and second-year students interested in joining the \"Law Review\" submit a 20-page note, which is graded by editors. Of the group that submitted notes, the review then selects its members from those who have the highest combined grade point average and writing competition score.\n\nThe \"Catholic University Law Review\" hosts a yearly symposium on a select area of law. The 2009 \"Catholic University Law Review\" symposium, entitled \"The Future of Election Law: The Changing Roles of Campaign Finance and Lobbyist Contributions\" focused on the role of campaign finance in election law. The \"Law Review\"'s 2010 symposium was entitled \"Immigration and National Security: Material Support and the War on Terror.\"\n\n\nThe review is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "88805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88805", "title": "Charter of the United Nations", "text": "Charter of the United Nations\n\nThe Charter of the United Nations (also known as the UN Charter) of 1945 is the foundational treaty of the United Nations, an intergovernmental organization. The UN Charter articulated a commitment to uphold human rights of citizens and outlined a broad set of principles relating to achieving ‘higher standards of living’, addressing ‘economic, social, health, and related problems,’ and ‘universal respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion.’ As a charter, it is a constituent treaty, and all members are bound by its articles. Furthermore, Article 103 of the Charter states that obligations to the United Nations prevail over all other treaty obligations.\n\nThe Charter was opened for signature on 26 June 1945 and was signed at the San Francisco War Memorial and Performing Arts Center in San Francisco, United States, on 26 June 1945, by 50 of the 51 original member countries (Poland, the other original member, which was not represented at the conference, signed it two months later). It entered into force on 24 October 1945, after being ratified by the original five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council—the Republic of China (after 1949, located in Taiwan and was later replaced by the People's Republic of China), the Provisional Government of the French Republic (later replaced by the Fourth Republic and then the Fifth Republic), the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (later replaced by the Russian Federation), the United Kingdom, and the United States—and a majority of the other signatories. In the meantime, the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki took place on 6 and 9 August, respectively; the introduction of this new weapon of warfare completely changed the security environment in which the UN Charter was promulgated. Most countries in the world have now ratified the Charter.\n\n24 October was later declared as United Nations Day by the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nThe Charter consists of a \"preamble\" and a series of articles grouped into chapters.\n\nThe preamble consists of two principal parts. The first part contains a general call for the maintenance of peace and international security and respect for human rights. The second part of the preamble is a declaration in a contractual style that the governments of the peoples of the United Nations have agreed to the Charter and it is the first international document regarding human rights.\n\n\nThe following chapters deal with the enforcement powers of UN bodies:\n\n\nThe Preamble to the treaty reads as follows:\n\nAccordingly, our respective Governments, through representatives assembled in the city of San Francisco, who have exhibited their full powers found to be in good and due form, have agreed to the present Charter of the United Nations and do hereby establish an international organization to be known as the United Nations.\nAlthough the Preamble is an integral part of the Charter, it does not set out any of the rights or obligations of member states; its purpose is to serve as an interpretative guide for the provisions of the Charter through the highlighting of some of the core motives of the founders of the organization.\n\nThe Purposes of the United Nations are \n\nThe Organization and its Members, in pursuit of the Purposes stated in Article 1, shall act in accordance with the following Principles:\n\n\nChapter II of the United Nations Charter deals with membership of the United Nations organization\n\n\nCOMPOSITION\n\nArticle 23\n\n1. The Security Council shall consist of fifteen Members of the United Nations. The Republic of China, France, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America shall be permanent members of the Security Council. The General Assembly shall elect ten other Members of the United Nations to be non-permanent members of the Security Council, due regard being specially paid, in the first instance to the contribution of Members of the United Nations to the maintenance of international peace and security and to the other purposes of the Organization, and also to equitable geographical distribution.\n\n2. The non-permanent members of the Security Council shall be elected for a term of two years. In the first election of the non-permanent members after the increase of the membership of the Security Council from eleven to fifteen, two of the four additional members shall be chosen for a term of one year. A retiring member shall not be eligible for immediate re-election.\n\n3. Each member of the Security Council shall have one representative.\n\nFUNCTIONS and POWERS\n\nArticle 24\n\n1. In order to ensure prompt and effective action by the United Nations, its Members confer on the Security Council primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, and agree that in carrying out its duties under this responsibility the Security Council acts on their behalf.\n\n2. In discharging these duties the Security Council shall act in accordance with the Purposes and Principles of the United Nations. The specific powers granted to the Security Council for the discharge of these duties are laid down in Chapters VI, VII, VIII, and XII.\n\n3. The Security Council shall submit annual and, when necessary, special reports to the General Assembly for its consideration.\n\nArticle 25\n\nThe Members of the United Nations agree to accept and carry out the decisions of the Security Council in accordance with the present Charter.\n\nArticle 26\n\nIn order to promote the establishment and maintenance of international peace and security with the least diversion for armaments of the world's human and economic resources, the Security Council shall be responsible for formulating, with the assistance of the Military Staff Committee referred to in Article 47, plans to be submitted to the Members of the United Nations for the establishment of a system for the regulation of armaments.\n\nVOTING\n\nArticle 27\n\n1. Each member of the Security Council shall have one vote.\n\n2. Decisions of the Security Council on procedural matters shall be made by an affirmative vote of nine members.\n\n3. Decisions of the Security Council on all other matters shall be made by an affirmative vote of nine members including the concurring votes of the permanent members; provided that, in decisions under Chapter VI, and under paragraph 3 of Article 52, a party to a dispute shall abstain from voting.\n\nPROCEDURE\n\nArticle 28\n\n1. The Security Council shall be so organized as to be able to function continuously. Each member of the Security Council shall for this purpose be represented at all times at the seat of the Organization.\n\n2. The Security Council shall hold periodic meetings at which each of its members may, if it so desires, be represented by a member of the government or by some other specially designated representative.\n\n3. The Security Council may hold meetings at such places other than the seat of the Organization as in its judgment will best facilitate its work.\n\nArticle 29\n\nThe Security Council may establish such subsidiary organs as it deems necessary for the performance of its functions.\n\nArticle 30\n\nThe Security Council shall adopt its own rules of procedure, including the method of selecting its President.\n\nArticle 31\n\nAny Member of the United Nations which is not a member of the Security Council may participate, without vote, in the discussion of any question brought before the Security Council whenever the latter considers that the interests of that Member are specially affected.\n\nArticle 32\n\nAny Member of the United Nations which is not a member of the Security Council or any state which is not a Member of the United Nations, if it is a party to a dispute under consideration by the Security Council, shall be invited to participate, without vote, in the discussion relating to the dispute. The Security Council shall lay down such conditions as it deems just for the participation of a state which is not a Member of the United Nations.\n\n\n\nChapter XIX of the United Nations Charter deals with ratification and signature of the UN Charter. It provided that the Charter would enter into force once ratified by the Permanent Five members of the United Nations Security Council and a majority of the other signatory states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1201545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1201545", "title": "Compact fluorescent lamp", "text": "Compact fluorescent lamp\n\nA compact fluorescent lamp (CFL), also called compact fluorescent light, energy-saving light, and compact fluorescent tube, is a fluorescent lamp designed to replace an incandescent light bulb; some types fit into light fixtures designed for incandescent bulbs. The lamps use a tube which is curved or folded to fit into the space of an incandescent bulb, and a compact electronic ballast in the base of the lamp.\n\nCompared to general-service incandescent lamps giving the same amount of visible light, CFLs use one-fifth to one-third the electric power, and last eight to fifteen times longer. A CFL has a higher purchase price than an incandescent lamp, but can save over five times its purchase price in electricity costs over the lamp's lifetime. Like all fluorescent lamps, CFLs contain toxic mercury which complicates their disposal. In many countries, governments have banned the disposal of CFLs together with regular garbage. These countries have established special collection systems for CFLs and other hazardous waste.\n\nThe principle of operation remains the same as in other fluorescent lighting: electrons that are bound to mercury atoms are excited to states where they will radiate ultraviolet light as they return to a lower energy level; this emitted ultraviolet light is converted into visible light as it strikes the fluorescent coating (as well as into heat when absorbed by other materials such as glass).\n\nCFLs radiate a spectral power distribution that is different from that of incandescent lamps. Improved phosphor formulations have improved the perceived color of the light emitted by CFLs, such that some sources rate the best \"soft white\" CFLs as subjectively similar in color to standard incandescent lamps.\n\nWhite LED lamps now compete with CFLs for high-efficiency lighting, and General Electric is stopping production of domestic CFL lamps in favour of LEDs.\n\nThe parent to the modern fluorescent lamp was invented in the late 1890s by Peter Cooper Hewitt. The Cooper Hewitt lamps were used for photographic studios and industries.\n\nEdmund Germer, Friedrich Meyer, and Hans Spanner patented a high-pressure vapor lamp in 1927. George Inman later teamed with General Electric to create a practical fluorescent lamp, sold in 1938 and patented in 1941. Circular and U-shaped lamps were devised to reduce the length of fluorescent light fixtures. The first fluorescent light bulb and fixture were displayed to the general public at the 1939 New York World's Fair.\n\nThe spiral CFL was invented in 1976 by Edward E. Hammer, an engineer with General Electric, in response to the 1973 oil crisis. Although the design met its goals, it would have cost GE about $25 million to build new factories to produce the lamps, and thus the invention was shelved. The design was eventually copied by others. In 1995, helical CFLs, manufactured in China, became commercially available. Since that time, their sales have steadily increased.\n\nIn 1980, Philips introduced its model SL, which was a screw-in or bayonet mount lamp with integral magnetic ballast. The lamp used a folded T4 tube, stable tri-color phosphors, and a mercury amalgam. This was the first successful screw-in replacement for an incandescent lamp. In 1985, Osram started selling its model EL lamp, which was the first CFL to include an electronic ballast.\n\nDevelopment of fluorescent lamps that could fit in the same volume as comparable incandescent lamps required the development of new, high-efficacy phosphors that could withstand more power per unit area than the phosphors used in older, larger fluorescent tubes.\n\nIn early 2016, General Electric announced the phase out of CFL production in the United States. LED prices had dropped steadily, falling well below $5 for a basic bulb in 2015. As a result, customers had been migrating toward LEDs. CFLs were also facing the possibility of proposed regulations for 2017 that would create difficulty qualifying for the Energy Star rating.\n\nThere are two types of CFLs: integrated and non-integrated lamps. Integrated lamps combine the tube and ballast in a single unit. These lamps allow consumers to replace incandescent lamps easily with CFLs. Integrated CFLs work well in many standard incandescent light fixtures, reducing the cost of converting to fluorescent. 3-way lamps and dimmable models with standard bases are available.\n\nNon-integrated CFLs have the ballast permanently installed in the luminaire, and usually only the fluorescent tube is changed at its end of life. Since the ballasts are placed in the light fixture, they are larger and last longer compared to the integrated ones, and they don't need to be replaced when the tube reaches its end-of-life. Non-integrated CFL housings can be both more expensive and sophisticated. They have two types of tubes: a bi-pin tube designed for conventional ballast, and a quad-pin tube designed for an electronic ballast or a conventional ballast with an external starter. A bi-pin tube contains an integrated starter, which obviates the need for external heating pins but causes incompatibility with electronic ballasts.\nNon-integrated CFLs can also be installed to a conventional light fixture using an adapter containing a built-in magnetic ballast. The adapter consists of a regular bulb screw, the ballast itself and a clip for the lamp's connector.\n\nCFLs have two main components: a magnetic or electronic ballast and a gas-filled tube (also called bulb or burner). Replacement of magnetic ballasts with electronic ballasts has removed most of the flickering and slow starting traditionally associated with fluorescent lighting, and has allowed the development of smaller lamps directly interchangeable with more sizes of incandescent light bulb.\n\nElectronic ballasts contain a small circuit board with a bridge rectifier, a filter capacitor and usually two switching transistors, which are often insulated-gate bipolar transistors. The incoming AC current is first rectified to DC, then converted to high frequency AC by the transistors, connected as a resonant series DC to AC inverter. The resulting high frequency is applied to the lamp tube. Since the resonant converter tends to stabilize lamp current (and light produced) over a range of input voltages, standard CFLs do not respond well in dimming applications and will experience a shorter lifespan and sometimes catastrophic failure. Special electronic ballasts (integrated or separate) are required for dimming service.\n\nCFL light output is roughly proportional to phosphor surface area, and high output CFLs are often larger than their incandescent equivalents. This means that the CFL may not fit well in existing light fixtures.\nTo fit enough phosphor coated area within the approximate overall dimensions of an incandescent lamp, standard shapes of CFL tube are a helix with one or more turns, multiple parallel tubes, circular arc, or a butterfly.\n\nSome CFLs are labeled not to be run base up, since heat will shorten the ballast's life. Such CFLs are unsuitable for use in pendant lamps and especially unsuitable for recessed light fixtures. CFLs designed for use in such fixtures are available. Current recommendations for fully enclosed, unventilated light fixtures (such as those recessed into insulated ceilings), are either to use \"reflector CFLs\" (R-CFL), cold-cathode CFLs or to replace such fixtures with those designed for CFLs. A CFL will thrive in areas that have good airflow, such as in a table lamp.\n\nCFLs emit light from a mix of phosphors, each emitting one band of color with some bands still in the ultraviolet range as can be seen on the light spectrum. Modern phosphor designs balance the emitted light color, energy efficiency, and cost. Every extra phosphor added to the coating mix improves color rendering but decreases efficiency and increases cost. Good quality consumer CFLs use three or four phosphors to achieve a \"white\" light with a color rendering index (CRI) of about 80, where the maximum 100 represents the appearance of colors under daylight or other sources of black-body radiation such as an incandescent light bulb (depending on the correlated color temperature).\n\nColor temperature can be indicated in kelvins or mireds (1 million divided by the color temperature in kelvins). The color temperature of a light source is the temperature of a black body that has the same chromaticity (i.e. color) as the light source. A notional temperature, the correlated color temperature, the temperature of a black body which emits light of a hue which to human color perception most closely matches the light from the lamp, is assigned.\n\nThe color temperature is characteristic of black-body radiation; practical white light sources approximate the radiation of a black body at a given temperature, but will not have an identical spectrum. In particular, narrow bands of shorter-wavelength radiation are usually present even for lamps of low color temperature (\"warm\" light).\n\nAs color temperature increases, the shading of the white light changes from red to yellow to white to blue. Color names used for modern CFLs and other tri-phosphor lamps vary between manufacturers, unlike the standardized names used with older halophosphate fluorescent lamps. For example, Sylvania's Daylight CFLs have a color temperature of 3500 K, while most other lamps called \"daylight\" have color temperatures of at least 5000 K. In United States, Energy Star's specification provides a set of named color temperatures for certified luminaries.\n\nCFLs typically have a rated service life of 6000–15,000 hours, whereas standard incandescent lamps have a service life of 750 or 1000 hours. However, the actual lifetime of any lamp depends on many factors, including operating voltage, manufacturing defects, exposure to voltage spikes, mechanical shock, frequency of cycling on and off, lamp orientation, and ambient operating temperature, among other factors.\n\nThe life of a CFL is significantly shorter if it is turned on and off frequently. In the case of a 5-minute on/off cycle the lifespan of some CFLs may be reduced to that of incandescent light bulbs. The US Energy Star program suggests that fluorescent lamps be left on when leaving a room for less than 15 minutes to mitigate this problem. CFLs produce less light later in their lives than when they are new. The light output decay is exponential, with the fastest losses being soon after the lamp is first used. By the end of their lives, CFLs can be expected to produce 70–80% of their original light output. The response of the human eye to light is logarithmic. That is, while the human eye is highly sensitive to changes in the intensity of faint light sources, it is less sensitive to changes in the intensity of brighter light sources since the pupils compensate by dilating or constricting. So, presuming the illumination provided by the lamp was ample at the beginning of its life, and the light output of a bulb gradually decreases by 25%, viewers will perceive a much smaller change in light intensity.\n\nFluorescent lamps get dimmer over their lifetime, so what starts out as an adequate luminosity may become inadequate. In one test by the U.S. Department of Energy of \"Energy Star\" products in 2003–04, one quarter of tested CFLs no longer met their rated output after 40% of their rated service life.\n\nBecause the eye's sensitivity changes with the wavelength, the output of lamps is commonly measured in lumens, a measure of the power of light as perceived by the human eye. The luminous efficacy of lamps is the number of lumens produced for each watt of electrical power used. The luminous efficacy of a typical CFL is 50–70 lumens per watt (lm/W) and that of a typical incandescent lamp is . Compared to a theoretical 100%-efficient lamp (), CFL lamps have lighting efficiency ranges of 7–10%, versus 1.5–2.5% for incandescents.\n\nBecause of their higher efficacy, CFLs use between one-seventh and one-third of the power of equivalent incandescent lamps. Fifty to seventy percent of the world's total lighting market sales were incandescent in 2010. Replacing all inefficient lighting with CFLs would save per year, 2.5% of the world's electricity consumption. In the US, it is estimated that replacing all the incandescents would save 80 TWh yearly. Since CFLs use much less energy than incandescent lamps (ILs), a phase-out of ILs would result in less carbon dioxide () being emitted into the atmosphere. Exchanging ILs for efficient CFLs on a global scale would achieve annual reductions of 230 Mt (million tons), more than the combined yearly emissions of the Netherlands and Portugal.\n\nIf a building's indoor incandescent lamps are replaced by CFLs, the heat produced due to lighting is significantly reduced. In warm climates or in office or industrial buildings where air conditioning is often required, CFLs reduce the load on the cooling system when compared to the use of incandescent lamps, resulting in savings in electricity in addition to the energy efficiency savings of the lamps themselves. However, in cooler climates in which buildings require heating, the heating system needs to replace the reduced heat from lighting fixtures. In Winnipeg, Canada, it was estimated that CFLs would only generate 17% savings in energy compared to incandescent bulbs, as opposed to the 75% savings that could have been expected without space heating considerations.\n\nWhile the purchase price of a CFL is typically 3–10 times greater than that of an equivalent incandescent lamp, a CFL lasts 8–15 times longer and uses two-thirds to three-quarters less energy. A US article stated \"A household that invested $90 in changing 30 fixtures to CFLs would save $440 to $1,500 over the five-year life of the bulbs, depending on your cost of electricity. Look at your utility bill and imagine a 12% discount to estimate the savings.\"\n\nCFLs are extremely cost-effective in commercial buildings when used to replace incandescent lamps. Using average U.S. commercial electricity and gas rates for 2006, a 2008 article found that replacing each 75 W incandescent lamp with a CFL resulted in yearly savings of $22 in energy usage, reduced HVAC cost, and reduced labour to change lamps. The incremental capital investment of $2 per fixture is typically paid back in about one month. Savings are greater and payback periods shorter in regions with higher electric rates and, to a lesser extent, also in regions with higher than U.S. average cooling requirements. However, frequent on-off cycling (turning on and off) of CFLs greatly reduces their lifespan.\n\nThe current price of CFLs reflects the manufacturing of nearly all CFLs in China, where labour costs less. In September 2010, the Winchester, Virginia, General Electric plant closed, leaving Osram Sylvania and the tiny American Light Bulb Manufacturing Inc. the last companies to make standard incandescent bulbs in the United States. At that time, Ellis Yan, whose Chinese company made the majority of CFLs sold in the United States, said he was interested in building a United States factory to make CFL bulbs, but wanted $12.5 million from the U.S. government to do so. General Electric had considered changing one of its bulb plants to make CFLs, but said that even after a $40 million investment in converting a plant, wage differences would mean costs would be 50% higher.\n\nAccording to an August 2009 newspaper report, some manufacturers claimed that CFLs could be used to replace higher-power incandescent lamps than justified by their light output. Equivalent wattage claims can be replaced by comparison of actual light output produced by the lamp, which is measured in lumens and marked on the packaging.\nIn addition to the wear-out failure modes common to all fluorescent lamps, the electronic ballast may fail, since it has a number of component parts. Ballast failures are usually due to overheating and may be accompanied by discoloration or distortion of the ballast enclosure, odors, or smoke. The lamps are internally protected and are meant to fail safely at the end of their lives. Industry associations are working toward advising consumers of the different failure modes of CFLs compared to incandescent lamps, and to develop lamps with inoffensive failure modes. New North American technical standards aim to eliminate smoke or excess heat at the end of lamp life.\n\nOnly some CFLs are labeled for dimming control. Using a dimmer with a standard CFL is ineffective and can shorten bulb life and void the warranty. Dimmable CFLs are available. The dimmer switch used in conjunction with a dimmable CFL must be matched to its power consumption range; many dimmers installed for use with incandescent bulbs do not function acceptably below 40 W, whereas CFL applications commonly draw power in the range 7–20 W. Dimmable CFLs have been marketed before suitable dimmers are available. The dimming range of CFLs is usually between 20% and 90%, but many modern CFLs have a dimmable range of 2% to 100%, more akin to that of incandescent lights. There are two types of dimmable CFL on the market: Standard dimmable CFLs, and \"switch-dimmable\" CFLs. The latter use a standard light switch, and the on-board electronics chooses the light output level based on the number of times the switch is turned on and off quickly. Dimmable CFLs are not a 100% replacement for incandescent fixtures that are dimmed for \"mood scenes\" such as wall sconces in a dining area. Below the 20% limit, the lamp may remain at 20% or flicker or the starter circuitry may stop and restart. Above 80%, the bulb may operate at 100%. However, recent products have solved these problems so that they perform more like incandescent lamps. Dimmable CFLs are more expensive than standard CFLs due to the additional circuitry.\n\nCold-cathode CFLs can be dimmed to low levels, making them popular replacements for incandescent bulbs on dimmer circuits.\n\nWhen a CFL is dimmed, its color temperature (warmth) stays the same. This is counter to most other light sources (such as the sun or incandescents) where color gets redder as the light source gets dimmer. The Kruithof curve from 1934 described an empirical relationship between intensity and color temperature of visually pleasing light sources.\n\nThe input stage of a CFL is a rectifier, which presents a non-linear load to the power supply and introduces harmonic distortion on the current drawn from the supply. The use of CFLs in homes has no appreciable effect on power quality, but significant quantities of them in a large facility can have an impact. The power factor of CFLs does not significantly affect their energy-saving benefits for individual consumers, but their use in large numbers—such as in commercial applications or across millions of homes in a distribution system—could require infrastructure upgrades. In such cases, CFLs with low (below 30 percent) total harmonic distortion (THD) and power factors greater than 0.9 should be selected.\nElectronic devices operated by infrared remote control can interpret the infrared light emitted by CFLs as a signal; this may limit the use of CFLs near televisions, radios, remote controls, or mobile phones. Energy Star certified CFLs must meet FCC standards, and so are required to list all known incompatibilities on the package.\n\nCFLs are generally not designed for outdoor use and some will not start in cold weather. CFLs are available with cold-weather ballasts, which may be rated to as low as −28.8 °C (−20 °F). Light output in the first few minutes drops at low temperatures. Cold-cathode CFLs will start and perform in a wide range of temperatures due to their different design.\n\nIncandescents reach full brightness a fraction of a second after being switched on. , CFLs turn on within a second, but many still take time to achieve full brightness. The light color may be slightly different immediately after being turned on. Some CFLs are marketed as \"instant on\" and have no noticeable warm-up period, but others can take up to a minute to reach full brightness, or longer in very cold temperatures. Some that use a mercury amalgam can take up to three minutes to reach full output. This and the shorter life of CFLs when turned on and off for short periods may make CFLs less suitable for applications such as motion-activated lighting. Hybrid lamps, combining a halogen lamp with a CFL, are available where warm up time is unacceptable. The halogen lamp lights immediately, and is switched off once the CFL has reached full brightness.\n\nSome CFLs will flash every few seconds even when the room light switch is off. This caused by a small amount of current bypassing the switch either through a switch pilot light or through the capacitance of the two conductor cable connected between the switch and the CFL or the capacitance between this cable and other mains wiring. A few tens of microamps of current is enough to charge the storage in the CFL power supply up to a voltage sufficient for the CFL to light briefly, discharging the storage and starting the process again.\n\nAccording to the European Commission Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified Health Risks (SCENIHR) in 2008, CFLs may pose an added health risk due to the ultraviolet and blue light emitted. This radiation could aggravate symptoms in people who already suffer skin conditions that make them exceptionally sensitive to light. The light produced by some single-envelope CFLs at distances of less than could lead to ultraviolet exposures approaching the current workplace limit set to protect workers from skin and retinal damage. However, industry sources claim the UV radiation received from CFLs is too small to contribute to skin cancer and the use of double-envelope CFLs \"largely or entirely\" mitigates any other risks.\n\nTests have shown that radiation exposure from CFLs is negligible at 150 centimeter distance from the source. At closer distances, comparisons show that CFLs emit less UVA (long wavelength) radiation than incandescent light bulbs. They do, however, emit higher levels of UVB (short wavelength) radiation. UVA can penetrate deep into the skin while sufficient levels of UVB can burn superficial layers. Closed (double-envelope) CFLs are shielded and emit a lower total UV radiation compared to incandescent or halogen bulbs of a similar wattage.\n\nFor the average user, UV radiation from indoor lights does not appear to be a concern. For those with skin sensitivity long term indoor exposure may be a concern, in which case they may want to use a bulb with lower UV radiation output. There seems to be more variability within bulb types than between them, but the best option is shielded CFLs.\n\nA 2012 study comparing cellular health effects of CFL light and incandescent light found statistically significant cell damage in cultures exposed to CFL light. Spectroscopic analysis confirmed the presence of significant UVA and UVC radiation, which the study's authors conjectured was attributable to damage in the bulbs' internal phosphor coatings. No cellular damage was observed following exposure to incandescent light of equivalent intensity. The study's authors suggest that the ultraviolet exposure could be limited by the use of \"double-walled\" bulbs manufactured with an additional glass covering surrounding the phosphor-coated layer.\n\nWhen the base of the bulb is not made to be flame-retardant, as required in the voluntary standard for CFLs, overheating of the electrical components in the bulb may create a fire hazard.\n\nCFLs, like all fluorescent lamps, contain mercury as vapor inside the glass tubing. Most CFLs contain 3–5 mg per bulb, with the bulbs labeled \"eco-friendly\" containing as little as 1 mg. Because mercury is poisonous, even these small amounts are a concern for landfills and waste incinerators where the mercury from lamps may be released and contribute to air and water pollution. In the U.S., lighting manufacturer members of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) have voluntarily capped the amount of mercury used in CFLs. In the EU the same cap is required by the RoHS law.\n\nIn areas with coal-fired power stations, the use of CFLs saves on mercury emissions when compared to the use of incandescent bulbs. This is due to the reduced electrical power demand, reducing in turn the amount of mercury released by coal as it is burned. In July 2008 the U.S. EPA published a data sheet stating that the net system emission of mercury for CFL lighting was lower than for incandescent lighting of comparable lumen output. This was based on the average rate of mercury emission for U.S. electricity production and average estimated escape of mercury from a CFL put into a landfill. Coal-fired plants also emit other heavy metals, sulfur, and carbon dioxide.\n\nIn the United States, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimated that if all 270 million CFLs sold in 2007 were sent to landfill sites, around 0.13 metric tons of mercury would be released, 0.1% of all U.S. emissions of mercury (around 104 metric tons that year).\nThe graph assumes that CFLs last an average of 8,000 hours regardless of manufacturer and premature breakage. In areas where coal is not used to produce energy, the emissions would be less for both types of bulb.\n\nSpecial handling instructions for breakage are not printed on the packaging of household CFL bulbs in many countries. The amount of mercury released by one bulb can temporarily exceed U.S. federal guidelines for chronic exposure. \"Chronic\", however, implies exposure for a significant time, and it remains unclear what the health risks are from short-term exposure to low levels of elemental mercury. Despite following EPA best-practice clean-up guidelines on broken CFLs, researchers were unable to remove mercury from carpet, and agitation of the carpet — such as by young children playing — created localized concentrations as high as 0.025 mg/m in air close to the carpet, even weeks after the initial breakage.\n\nThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has published best practices for cleanup of broken CFLs, as well as ways to avoid breakage, on its web site. It recommends airing out the room and carefully disposing of broken pieces in a jar. A Maine Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) study of 2008 comparing clean-up methods warns that using plastic bags to store broken CFL bulbs is dangerous because vapors well above safe levels continue to leak from the bags. The EPA and the Maine DEP recommend a sealed glass jar as the best repository for a broken bulb.\n\nHealth and environmental concerns about mercury have prompted many jurisdictions to require spent lamps to be properly disposed of or recycled, rather than being included in the general waste stream sent to landfills. Safe disposal requires storing the bulbs unbroken until they can be processed.\n\nIn the United States, most states have adopted and currently implement the federal Universal Waste Rule (UWR). Several states, including Vermont, New Hampshire, California, Minnesota, New York, Maine, Connecticut and Rhode Island, have regulations that are more stringent than the federal UWR. Home-supply chain stores make free CFL recycling widely available.\n\nIn the European Union, CFLs are one of many products subject to the WEEE recycling scheme. The retail price includes an amount to pay for recycling, and manufacturers and importers have an obligation to collect and recycle CFLs.\n\nAccording to the Northwest Compact Fluorescent Lamp Recycling Project, because household users in the U.S. Northwest have the option of disposing of these products in the same way they dispose of other solid waste, in Oregon \"a large majority of household CFLs are going to municipal solid waste\". They also note the EPA's estimates for the percentage of fluorescent lamps' total mercury released when they are disposed of in the following ways: municipal waste landfill 3.2%, recycling 3%, municipal waste incineration 17.55% and hazardous waste disposal 0.2%.\n\nThe first step of processing CFLs involves crushing the bulbs in a machine that uses negative pressure ventilation and a mercury-absorbing filter or cold trap to contain mercury vapor. Many municipalities are purchasing such machines. The crushed glass and metal is stored in drums, ready for shipping to recycling factories.\n\nIn some places, such as Quebec and British Columbia in 2007, central heating for homes was provided mostly by the burning of natural gas, whereas electricity was primarily provided by hydroelectric power. An analysis of the impacts of a ban on incandescent light bulbs at that time introduced the notion that in such areas, heat generated by conventional electric light bulbs may have been significantly reducing the release of greenhouse gases from natural gas heating. Ivanco, Karney, and Waher estimated that \"If all homes in Quebec were required to switch from (incandescent) bulbs to CFLs, there would be an increase of almost 220,000 tonnes in CO emissions in the province, equivalent to the annual emissions from more than 40,000 automobiles.\"\n\nThe ballast of fluorescent lamps can make a buzzing sound. This electromagnetically-excited acoustic noise comes from the vibration of the magnetic core of the ballast subject to electromagnetic forces.\n\nCFLs are produced for both alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC) input. DC CFLs are popular for use in recreational vehicles and off-the-grid housing. There are various aid agency initiatives in developing countries to replace kerosene lamps, which have associated health and safety hazards, with CFLs powered by batteries, solar panels or wind generators.\n\nCFLs in solar powered street lights, use solar panels mounted on the pole.\n\nDue to the potential to reduce electric consumption and pollution, various organizations have encouraged the adoption of CFLs and other efficient lighting. Efforts range from publicity to encourage awareness, to direct handouts of CFLs to the public. Some electric utilities and local governments have subsidized CFLs or provided them free to customers as a means of reducing electric demand (and so delaying additional investments in generation).\n\nIn the United States, the \"Program for the Evaluation and Analysis of Residential Lighting\" (PEARL) was created to be a watchdog program. PEARL has evaluated the performance and ENERGY STAR compliance of more than 150 models of CFL bulbs.\n\nThe UN Environment Programme (UNEP)/Global Environment Facility (GEF) en.lighten initiative has developed \"The Global Efficient Partnership Program\" which focuses on country-led policies and approaches to enable the implementation of energy-efficient lighting, including CFLs, quickly and cost-effectively in developing and emerging countries.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, the Energy Star program labels lamps that meet a set of standards for efficiency, starting time, life expectancy, color, and consistency of performance. The intent of the program is to reduce consumer concerns due to variable quality of products. Those CFLs with a recent Energy Star certification start in less than one second and do not flicker. \"Energy Star Light Bulbs for Consumers\" is a resource for finding and comparing Energy Star qualified lamps. There is ongoing work in improving the \"quality\" (color rendering index) of the light.\n\nIn the United States, new standards proposed by the United States Department of Energy could result in LED bulbs replacing CFLs. In the opinion of Noah Horowitz of the Natural Resources Defense Council, most CFL bulbs would not meet the standards.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a similar program is run by the Energy Saving Trust to identify lighting products that meet energy conservation and performance guidelines.\n\nThe G24 (624Q2) and GU24 socket systems were designed to replace the traditional lamp sockets, so that incandesecent bulbs are not installed in fixtures intended for energy efficient lamps only.\n\nWhite LEDs have advanced to the stage where they are a good substitute for the compact fluorescent lamp. The latest types are exhibiting superior efficacies (mostly because no power is wasted on powering heated cathodes) and a choice of color temperature. The most common type consists of a blue light emitting diode with a coating of cerium-doped yttrium aluminium garnet which produces yellow light when the blue light from the diode lands on it. The combination of the yellow and blue light produces white light. LED bulbs have a long life generally around 25,000 hours, with some up to 35,000 hours. Like CFLs, the light output degrades as the bulb ages though somewhat more slowly.\n\nDimmable white LED bulbs are available. Some of these offer a warmer dimmed light by including diodes that are of a lower color temperature than the main diodes. Most dimmable LED bulbs require a trailing edge dimmer and will not work satisfactorily with the more common leading edge dimmers based on TRIACs. Some dimmer switches have a function to choose between either leading edge or trailing edge modes during or after installation.\n\nCold-cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFLs) have been made available in the form of CFLs. CCFLs use electrodes without a filament. The voltage of CCFLs is about 5 times higher than CFLs, and the current is about 10 times lower. CCFLs have a diameter of about 3 millimeters. CCFLs were initially used for document scanners and also for back-lighting LCD displays, and later manufactured for use as lamps. The efficacy (lumens per watt) is about half that of CFLs. CCFLs rely on the discharge itself to heat the electrodes which operate at similar temperatures to 'hot cathode' CFLs. CCFLs still have a significant warm up time (though modern electrode materials have mitigated this somewhat) and suffer similar sputtering of the electrodes when switched on cold which shortens their life. Their main advantage is much simpler driving circuitry.\n\n"}
{"id": "25783719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25783719", "title": "Complex structure theory in English law", "text": "Complex structure theory in English law\n\nComplex structure theory in English law refers to an attempt to circumvent the general rule that one cannot sue for solely pure economic loss in English tort law.\nA faulty boiler is fitted into a house and causes structural damage to the property when it explodes. Here the owner of the property has no contractual relationship with the company which built the boiler. Proponents of complex structure theory argue that the end user should be able to recover the full cost of reinstating the item on the basis that the objective is to rectify damage to recover damage to the adjacent property, in this example, damage to the property. \n\nComplex structure theory was mooted obiter in \"Murphy v Brentwood District Council\".\n"}
{"id": "4503372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4503372", "title": "Council of State (Oman)", "text": "Council of State (Oman)\n\nThe Council of State (\"Majlis al-Dawla\") is the upper house of the Council of Oman. It has 83 members all of whom are appointed by the Sultan. The other house is the Consultative Assembly (\"Majlis al-Shura\").\n\nThe Council of State was established in December 1997 with a Royal Decree which states (article 17) that \"the State Council shall assist the Government to implement the overall development strategy and shall contribute in deepening the roots of the Omani society, maintaining the achievements and ascertaining the principles of the basic law of the state\".\n\nIn October 2011, the legislative process was amended by a new Royal Decree; the Council of Ministers now refers a draft law to the Consultative Assembly which has to approve or amend it within 3 months of referral. The draft law is then referred to the Council of State which has to approve or amend it. If the two bodies disagree, they take a vote to resolve the difference. If an absolute majority approves the draft law the Chairman of the Council of State refers it to the Sultan.\n\nIdentified Article 17 of the State Council and the Shura system to the Council of State does everything possible to assist in the implementation of development plans and contribute to the consolidation of the inherent values of the Omani society and preserve the achievements and reaffirm the principles enshrined in the Basic Law of the State, and separated article (18) of the same system in order to achieve its goals the following powers:\n\n\n\nThe State Council has 83 members; they are appointed by the Sultan for a 4-year term.\n\nThe members of the council are mainly:\n\n"}
{"id": "20743859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20743859", "title": "Ctrl.Alt.Shift", "text": "Ctrl.Alt.Shift\n\nCtrl.Alt.Shift was an initiative politicising a new generation of activists for social justice and global change. It was a project of UK aid and development charity Christian Aid.\n\nCtrl.Alt.Shift was founded by Katrin Owusu and published the first issue of its magazine in June 2008. The magazines continued until 2010 and the website until mid-2011. It has published issues focusing on 'HIV & Stigma' and 'Gender & Power'. The magazine was edited by blogger and columnist Chantelle Fiddy who also helped edit the website. The website featured regular columnists and staff writers such as Dwain Lucktung, Eva Baker, Russell Myrie and Bibi van der Zee alongside user-generated content.\n\nIn November 2008, Ctrl.Alt.Shift launched the 'Nothing to Declare' project – a series of demonstrations with the intention of exposing the stigma created by HIV travel bans. The project was co-organised by activist pressure group Plane Stupid, with grime star Tinchy Stryder lending his support outside the Russian embassy. The protests targeted the London embassies of Russia, South Korea and Saudi Arabia, and were covered by CNN. On 8 March 2009, International Women's Day, Ctrl.Alt.Shift marched through Guildhall in London to raise awareness of the 50 million women missing in India due to female foeticide.\n\nCtrl.Alt.Shift garnered widespread media attention for its involvement in a number of arts-based cultural interventions, each of which has focused on a different area of social injustice in developing countries.\n\nIn November 2008, it held a showcase of dance, film and music based on the stigma surrounding HIV/Aids at Sadler's Wells, London. Nitin Sawhney and Carlos Acosta were mentors and there was a performance by JME of Boy Better Know.\n\nIn early 2009 a photo competition run in conjunction with VICE magazine focused on Gender, Poverty and Power. Nan Goldin acted as an ambassador and Alexa Chung, Alex Sturrock, Ben Rayner, and Andy Capper were mentors. The winners were exhibited in February at the Association of Photographers in London.\n\nIn March 2009, Ctrl.Alt.Shift launched an art exhibition at BALTIC which focused on war and conflict in Colombia and Latin America as a whole. The exhibition took place over two floors of the building and featured work produced by 12 students and recent graduates from Newcastle University's LifeWorkArt programme. It also featured specially commissioned works from south London photo-artist Matthew Stone and installation artist Graham Hudson, who acted as project mentors. Urban sculptor and photographer T-Magic, street artist Benjamin Wachenje and BALTIC freelance artists, Alison Unsworth and Paul Merrick also featured, and David Shrigley was Creative Ambassador.\n\nOn 14 May 2009, Ctrl.Alt.Shift premiered five short films: \"1000 Voices\", \"HIV: The Musical\", \"Man Made\", \"No Way Through\" and \"War School\". The films were directed by 7 young, talented, up and coming film makers; Tim Travers Hawkins, Joe Patrick & Tim Woodall, Fern Berresford, Ben Newman and Shelia Menon & Alex Monro who were helped out by established directors Aoife McArdle, Chris Harding from Shynola, Kinga Burza, Paul Andrew Williams and Jim Threapleton. The films were scored by the likes of Young Knives, The Thirst, Chipmunk, Shy Child, Metronomy, Denis Jones and Jesca Hoop, and featured performances from Adam Buxton, Julian Barratt and Martin Freeman. The poster art for the films was featured in Creative Review.\n\n\"Ctrl.Alt.Shift Unmasks Corruption\" is a comics anthology edited by Paul Gravett, which features short graphical stories looking at examples of corruption in the real world. It includes contribution by comics creators like Pat Mills. An exhibition was held at the Lazarides gallery in London in 2009 to mark the launch and included examples of misguided attempts to produce worthy comic books.\n\n"}
{"id": "2772907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2772907", "title": "Dalby's Carminative", "text": "Dalby's Carminative\n\nDalby's Carminative was a medicinal product formula originally made by James Dalby of London, England, in the late 1770s. The formula claimed to aid “infants afflicted with wind, watery gripes, fluxes and other disorders of the stomach and bowels”. Ingredients included opium. The product was being sold in the United States by at least 1804.\n\nAs listed in The Lancet, a recipe consists of;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "579534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579534", "title": "Dennis Nilsen", "text": "Dennis Nilsen\n\nDennis Andrew Nilsen (23 November 1945 – 12 May 2018) was a Scottish serial killer and necrophile, who murdered at least 12 young men in a series of killings committed between 1978 and 1983 in London, England. Convicted, at the Old Bailey, of six counts of murder and two of attempted murder, Nilsen was sentenced to life imprisonment on 4 November 1983, with a recommendation that he serve a minimum of 25 years. In his later years, he was incarcerated at Full Sutton maximum security prison.\n\nNilsen committed the murders at two North London addresses. He lured his victims to these through guile and murdered them by strangulation, sometimes accompanied by drowning. Following the murders, Nilsen observed a ritual in which he bathed and dressed the victims' bodies, which he retained for extended periods of time, before dissecting and disposing of the remains by burning on a bonfire, or flushing down a lavatory.\n\nNilsen became known as the Muswell Hill Murderer as he committed his later murders in the Muswell Hill district of North London. He died in prison on 12 May 2018.\n\nDennis Andrew Nilsen was born on 23 November 1945 in Fraserburgh, Aberdeenshire, the second of three children born to Elizabeth Duthie Whyte, and Olav Magnus Moksheim (who had adopted the surname Nilsen). His father was a Norwegian soldier who had travelled to Scotland in 1940 as part of the Free Norwegian Forces, following the Nazi occupation of Norway. After a brief courtship, he married Elizabeth Whyte in May 1942 and the newlyweds moved into her parents' house.\n\nThe marriage between Nilsen's parents was difficult. Olav Nilsen did not view married life with any seriousness, being preoccupied with his duties with the Free Norwegian Forces, and making little attempt to spend much time with or find a new home for his wife. After the birth of her third child, Nilsen's mother concluded she had \"rushed into marriage without thinking\". The couple divorced in 1948. All three of the couple's children — Olav Jr., Dennis and Sylvia — had been conceived on their father's brief visits to the mother's household. Her parents, Andrew and Lily (née Duthie) Whyte (who had never approved of their daughter's choice of husband), were supportive of their daughter following her divorce, and considerate of their grandchildren.\n\nNilsen was a quiet yet adventurous child. His earliest childhood memories were of family picnics in the Scottish countryside with his mother and siblings, of his grandparents' pious lifestyle (which he later described as \"cold and dour\"), and of being taken on long countryside walks carried on the shoulders of his maternal grandfather, to whom he was particularly close. Olav Jr. and Sylvia occasionally accompanied Dennis and his grandfather on these walks. Despite only being 5 years old, Nilsen vividly recalled these walks with his grandfather as being \"very long ... along the harbour, across the wide stretch of beach, up to the sand-dunes, which rise thirty feet behind the beach ... and on to Inverallochy\". He later described this stage of his childhood as one of contentment, and his grandfather being his \"great hero and protector\", adding that, whenever his grandfather (who was a fisherman) was at sea, \"Life would be empty [for me] until he returned\".\n\nBy 1951 Nilsen's grandfather's health was in decline, but he continued to work. On 31 October 1951, while fishing in the North Sea, Andrew Whyte died of a heart attack at the age of 62. His body was brought ashore and returned to the Nilsen family home prior to burial. In what Nilsen later described as his most vivid childhood recollection, his mother, weeping, asked him whether he wanted to see his grandfather. When he replied that he did, he was taken into the room where his grandfather lay in an open coffin. As he gazed upon the body, his heart beat strongly as his mother told him his grandfather was sleeping.\n\nIn the years following the death of his grandfather, Nilsen became more quiet and reserved, often standing alone at the harbour watching the herring boats. At home, he seldom participated in family activities and repelled any attempts by adult family members to demonstrate any affection towards him. He grew to resent what he saw as the unfair amount of attention his mother, grandmother and later, stepfather displayed towards his older brother and younger sister. Nilsen envied Olav's popularity. He often talked to or played games with his younger sister, Sylvia, to whom he was closer than any other family member.\n\nOn one of his solo excursions to the beach at Inverallochy in 1954 or 1955, Nilsen became submerged beneath the water and was almost dragged out to sea. Nilsen initially panicked, flailing his arms and shouting. As he \"gasped for air which wasn't there\" he recalled believing that his grandfather was about to arrive and pull him out, before experiencing a sense of tranquillity. His life was saved by another youngster who dragged him ashore.\n\nShortly after this incident, Nilsen's mother moved out of her mother's home and into a flat with her three children. She later married a builder named Andrew Scott, with whom she had four more children in as many years. Although Nilsen initially resented his stepfather (whom he viewed as an unfair disciplinarian), he gradually came to grudgingly respect him. The family moved to Strichen in 1955.\n\nAt the onset of puberty, Nilsen discovered he was homosexual, which initially confused and shamed him. He kept his sexuality hidden from his family and his few friends. Because many of the boys to whom he was attracted looked like his younger sister, Sylvia, on one occasion he sexually fondled his sister, believing that his attraction towards boys might be a manifestation of the care he felt for her. He made no efforts to seek sexual contact with any of the peers to whom he was sexually attracted, although he later said he had been fondled by an older youth and did not find the experience unpleasant. On one occasion, he also caressed and fondled the body of his older brother as he slept. As a result of this, Olav Jr. began to suspect his brother was homosexual, and regularly belittled Dennis in public — referring to him as \"hen\" (Scottish slang for \"girl\"). Nilsen initially believed that his fondling of his sister may have been evidence that he was bisexual.\n\nAs Nilsen progressed into adolescence, he found life in Strichen increasingly stifling, with limited entertainment amenities or career opportunities. He respected his parents' efforts to provide and care for their children, but began to resent the fact that his family was poorer than most of his peers, with his mother and stepfather making no effort to better their lifestyles; thus, Nilsen seldom invited his friends to the family home. At the age of 14, he joined the Army Cadet Force, viewing the British Army as a potential avenue for escaping his rural origins.\n\nNilsen's scholastic record was above average. He displayed a flair for both history and art, but shunned sports. He finished his schooling in 1961 and briefly worked in a canning factory as he considered which career path he should choose. After three weeks at the factory, Nilsen informed his mother that he intended to join the army, where he intended to train as a chef. Nilsen passed the entrance examinations and received official notification he was to enlist for nine years' service in September 1961, commencing his training with the Army Catering Corps at St. Omer Barracks in Aldershot.\n\nWithin weeks, Nilsen began to excel in his army duties; he later described his three years of training at Aldershot as \"the happiest of my life\". He relished the travel opportunities afforded him in his training, and recalled as a highlight his regiment taking part in a ceremonial parade attended by both the Queen and Lord Montgomery.\n\nWhile stationed at Aldershot, Nilsen's latent homosexual feelings began to stir, but he kept his sexual orientation well hidden from his colleagues. Nilsen never showered in the company of his fellow soldiers for fear of developing an erection in their presence; instead opting to bathe alone in the bathroom, which also afforded him the privacy to masturbate without discovery.\n\nIn mid-1964, Nilsen passed his initial catering exam and was officially assigned to the 1st Battalion of the Royal Fusiliers in Osnabrück, West Germany, where he served as a private. In this deployment, Nilsen began to increase his intake of alcohol. He described himself and his colleagues as a \"hard-working, boozy lot\"; his colleagues recalled he often drank to excess in order to ease his shyness. On one occasion, Nilsen and a German youth drank themselves into a stupor. When Nilsen awoke, he found himself on the floor of the German youth's flat. No sexual activity had occurred, but this incident fuelled Nilsen's fantasies: he began to develop sexual fantasies which initially involved his sexual partner — invariably a young, slender male — being completely passive. These fantasies gradually evolved into his partner being unconscious or dead. On several occasions, Nilsen also made tentative efforts to have his own prone body sexually interfered with by one of his colleagues. In these instances, whenever he and his colleagues drank to excess, he pretended he was inebriated in the hope one of his colleagues would make sexual use of his supposedly unconscious body.\n\nAfter two years' deployment, Nilsen returned to Aldershot, where he passed his official catering exam before being deployed to serve as a cook for the British Army in Norway. In 1967, he was deployed to Aden, South Yemen, where he again served as a cook at the Al Mansoura Prison. This posting was more dangerous than his previous postings in West Germany or Norway, and Nilsen later recalled his regiment losing several men, often in ambushes en route to the army barracks. Nilsen was kidnapped by an Arab taxi driver, who beat him unconscious and placed him in the boot of his car. Upon being dragged out of the boot of the taxi, Nilsen grabbed a jack-handle and knocked the taxi driver to the floor before beating him unconscious. He then locked the man in the boot of the taxi.\n\nUnlike his previous postings at Aldershot and Osnabrück, while stationed in Aden, Nilsen had his own room. This afforded him the privacy to masturbate without discovery. His developed fantasies of sex with an unresistant or deceased partner unfulfilled, Nilsen compensated by imagining sexual encounters with an unconscious body as he masturbated as he looked at his own prone, nude body in a mirror. On one occasion, Nilsen discovered that, by using a free-standing mirror, he could create an effect whereby if positioning the mirror so his head was out of view, he could visualise himself engaged in a sexual act with another man. To Nilsen, this ruse created the ideal circumstance in which he could visually \"split\" his personality: in these masturbatory fantasies, Nilsen alternately envisaged himself as being both the domineering and the passive partner. These fantasies gradually evolved to incorporate his own near-death experience with the Arab taxi driver, the dead bodies he had seen in Aden, and imagery within a 19th-century oil painting entitled \"The Raft of the Medusa\", which depicts an old man holding the limp, nude body of a dead youth as he sits aside the dismembered body of another young male. In his most vividly recalled fantasy, a slender, attractive young blonde soldier who had been recently killed in battle is dominated by a faceless \"dirty, grey-haired old man\" who washed this body before engaging in intercourse with the spreadeagled corpse.\n\nWhen Nilsen completed his deployment in Aden he returned to Britain and was assigned to serve with the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders at Seaton Barracks in Plymouth. Throughout his service with this regiment, Nilsen was required to cook for 30 soldiers and two officers on a daily basis. He served at these barracks for one year before being transferred with the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders to Cyprus in 1969. Months later, the regiment was transferred to Berlin, where, the same year, he had his first sexual experience with a female: a prostitute whose services he solicited. He bragged of this sexual encounter to his colleagues, but later stated he found intercourse with a female both \"over-rated\" and \"depressing\".\n\nFollowing a brief period with the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders in Inverness, Nilsen was selected to cook for the Queen's Royal Guard before, in January 1971, he was reassigned to serve as cook for a different regiment in the Shetland Islands, where he ended his 11-year military career at the rank of corporal in October 1972.\n\nBetween October and December 1972, Nilsen lived with his family as he considered his next career move. On more than one occasion in the three months Nilsen lived in Strichen, his mother voiced her opinion as to her being more concerned with Nilsen's lack of female companionship than the career path he should next opt to take, and of her desire to see him marry and start a family. On one occasion, Nilsen joined his older brother, Olav, his sister-in-law, and another couple to watch a documentary about male homosexuality. All present viewed the topic with derision, except Dennis, who ardently spoke in defence of gay rights. A fight ensued, after which Olav informed his mother that Dennis was homosexual.\n\nNilsen never spoke to his older brother again, and maintained only sporadic written contact with his mother, stepfather and younger siblings. He decided to join the Metropolitan Police, and moved to London in December to begin the training course.\n\nIn April 1973 Nilsen completed his training and was posted to Willesden Green. As a junior constable, Nilsen performed several arrests but never had to physically subdue a member of the public. Nilsen enjoyed the work, but missed the comradeship of the Army. He began to drink alone in the evenings.\n\nDuring the summer and autumn of 1973, Nilsen began frequenting gay pubs and engaged in several casual liaisons with men. He viewed these encounters as \"soul-destroying\" and a \"vain search for inner peace\" as he sought a lasting relationship. In August, following a failed relationship, Nilsen came to the conclusion that his personal lifestyle was at odds with his professional life. His father died the same month, leaving each of his three children £1,000. In December, Nilsen resigned from the police.\n\nBetween December 1973 and May 1974, Nilsen worked as a security guard. The work was intermittent, and he resolved to find more stable, secure employment. He found work as a civil servant in May 1974. Nilsen was initially posted to a Jobcentre in Denmark Street, where his primary role was to find employment for unskilled labourers. At his workplace, Nilsen was known to be a quiet, conscientious employee, who was active in the trade union movement. His attendance record was mediocre, although he frequently volunteered to work overtime. In 1979, Nilsen was appointed Acting Executive Officer. He was officially promoted to the position of Executive Officer, with additional supervisory responsibilities, in June 1982, and transferred to another Jobcentre in Kentish Town, continuing in this job until his arrest.\n\nIn November 1975, Nilsen encountered a 20-year-old named David Gallichan being threatened outside a pub by two other men. Nilsen intervened in the altercation and took the youth to his room at 80 Teignmouth Road in the Cricklewood district of London. The two men spent the evening drinking and talking; Nilsen learned that Gallichan had recently moved to London from Weston-super-Mare, was homosexual, unemployed and resided in a hostel. The following morning, both men agreed to live together in a larger residence and Nilsen — using part of the inheritance bequeathed to him by his father — immediately resolved to find a larger property. Several days later, the pair viewed a vacant ground floor flat at 195 Melrose Avenue, also located in Cricklewood. They decided to move into this property. Prior to moving into the residence, Nilsen negotiated a deal with the landlord whereby he and Gallichan had exclusive use of the garden at the rear of the property.\n\nThe flat was supposed to be furnished, but upon moving in, Nilsen and Gallichan found it to be largely threadbare. Over the following months, Nilsen and Gallichan redecorated and furnished the entire flat. Much of this work was performed by Gallichan, as Nilsen — having discovered Gallichan's lack of employment ambitions — began to view himself as the breadwinner in their relationship. Nilsen later recollected that he was sexually attracted to Gallichan, but the pair seldom had intercourse.\n\nInitially, Nilsen experienced domestic contentment with Gallichan; within a year of their moving to Melrose Avenue, the superficial relationship between the two men began to strain. They slept in separate beds, and both began to bring home casual sexual partners. Gallichan insisted Nilsen had never been violent towards him, but he was regularly berated by Nilsen, and by early 1976, the pair began arguing with increasing frequency. Nilsen later stated that, following a heated argument in May 1977, he had demanded Gallichan leave the residence. (Gallichan later informed investigators that he had chosen to end the relationship.) Nilsen formed brief relationships with several other young men over the following 18 months; none of these relationships lasted more than a few weeks, and none of the men expressed any intention of living with Nilsen on a permanent basis.\n\nBy late 1978, Nilsen was living a solitary existence; he had had a minimum of three failed relationships in the previous 18 months, and he later confessed to having developed an increasing conviction that he was unfit to live with. Throughout 1978, he devoted an ever-increasing amount of his time, effort and assiduity to his work, and most evenings he spent consuming spirits and/or lager as he listened to music.\n\nBetween 1978 and 1983, Nilsen is known to have killed a minimum of 12 men and boys, and to have attempted to kill seven others (he initially confessed in 1983 to having killed 15 victims). The majority of Nilsen's victims were homeless or homosexual men; others were heterosexual people he typically met in bars, on public transport or — on one occasion — outside his own home. All of Nilsen's murders were committed inside the north London addresses where he alternately resided in the years he is known to have killed. His victims were lured to these addresses through guile — typically the offer of alcohol and/or shelter.\n\nInside Nilsen's home, the victims were usually given food and alcohol, then strangled — usually with a ligature — either to death or until they had become unconscious. If the victim had been strangled into unconsciousness, Nilsen then drowned him in his bathtub, his sink or a bucket of water before observing a ritual in which he bathed, clothed and retained the bodies inside his residences for several weeks or, occasionally, months before he dismembered them. Each victim killed between 1978 and 1981 at his Cricklewood residence was disposed of via burning upon a bonfire; prior to their dissection, Nilsen removed their internal organs, which he disposed of either beside a fence behind his flat, or close to Gladstone Park. The victims killed in 1982 and 1983 at his Muswell Hill residence were retained at his flat, with their flesh and smaller bones flushed down the lavatory.\n\nNilsen admitted to engaging in masturbation as he viewed the nude bodies of several of his victims, and to have engaged in sexual acts with six of his victims' bodies, but was adamant he had never penetrated any of his victims.\n\nNilsen killed his first victim, 14-year-old Stephen Holmes, on 30 December 1978. Holmes encountered Nilsen in the Cricklewood Arms pub, where he (Holmes) had unsuccessfully attempted to purchase alcohol. According to Nilsen, he had been drinking heavily, alone, on the day he met Holmes, before deciding in the evening he must \"at all costs\" leave his flat and seek company. He invited the youth to his house to drink alcohol with him, believing him to be approximately 17 years old. At Nilsen's home, both Nilsen and Holmes drank heavily, before they fell asleep. The following morning, Nilsen awoke to find Holmes asleep on his bed. In his subsequent written confessions, Nilsen stated he was \"afraid to wake him in case he left me\". After caressing the sleeping youth, Nilsen decided Holmes was to \"stay with me over the New Year whether he wanted to or not\". Reaching for a tie, Nilsen straddled Holmes as he strangled him into unconsciousness, before drowning the youth in a bucket filled with water. Nilsen twice masturbated over the body, before stowing the youth's corpse beneath his floorboards. Holmes' bound corpse remained beneath the floorboards for almost eight months, before Nilsen built a bonfire in the garden behind his flat and burned it on 11 August 1979.\n\nReflecting on his killing spree in 1983, Nilsen stated that, having killed Holmes: \"I caused dreams which caused death ... this is my crime\", adding that he had \"started down the avenue of death and possession of a new kind of flatmate\".\n\nOn 11 October 1979, Nilsen attempted to murder a student from Hong Kong named Andrew Ho, whom he had met in a St Martin's Lane pub and lured to his flat on the promise of sex. Nilsen attempted to strangle Ho, who managed to flee from his flat and reported the incident to police. Nilsen was questioned in relation to the incident, but Ho decided not to press charges.\n\nTwo months after the attempted murder of Ho, on 3 December 1979, Nilsen encountered a 23-year-old Canadian student named Kenneth Ockenden, who had been on a tour of England visiting relatives. Nilsen encountered Ockenden as they both drank in a West End pub. Upon learning the youth was a tourist, Nilsen offered to show Ockenden several London landmarks, an offer which Ockenden accepted. Nilsen then invited the youth to his house on the promise of a meal and further drinks. The pair stopped at an off licence en route to Nilsen's Melrose Avenue residence and purchased whisky, rum and beer, with Ockenden insisting on sharing the bill. Nilsen was adamant he could not recall the precise moment he strangled Ockenden, but recalled that he strangled the youth with the cord of his (Nilsen's) headphones as Ockenden listened to music; he also recalled dragging the youth across his floor with the wire wrapped around his neck as he strangled him, before pouring himself half a glass of rum and continuing to listen to music upon the headphones with which he had strangled Ockenden.\n\nThe following day, Nilsen purchased a Polaroid camera and photographed Ockenden's body in various suggestive positions. He then lay Ockenden's corpse spreadeagled above him on his bed as he watched television for several hours, before wrapping the body in plastic bags and stowing the corpse beneath the floorboards. On approximately four occasions over the following fortnight, Nilsen disinterred Ockenden's body from beneath his floorboards and seated the body upon his armchair alongside him as he himself watched television and drank alcohol.\n\nNilsen killed his third victim, 16-year-old Martyn Duffey, on 17 May 1980. Duffey was a catering student from Birkenhead, who had hitchhiked to London without his parents' knowledge on 13 May after being questioned by the British Transport Police for evading his train fare. For four days, Duffey had slept rough near Euston railway station before Nilsen encountered the youth as he returned from a union conference in Southport. Duffey, Nilsen recollected, was both exhausted and hungry, and happily accepted Nilsen's offer of a meal and a bed for the evening. After the youth had fallen asleep in Nilsen's bed, Nilsen fashioned a ligature around his neck, then simultaneously sat on Duffey's chest and tightened the ligature with a \"great force\". Nilsen held this grip until Duffey became unconscious; he then dragged the youth into his kitchen and drowned him in his sink before bathing with the body — which he recollected as being \"the youngest-looking I had ever seen\".\n\nDuffey's body was first placed upon a kitchen chair, then upon the bed on which he had been strangled. The body was repeatedly kissed, complimented and caressed by Nilsen, both before and after he had masturbated while sitting upon the stomach of the corpse. For two days, the body of Martyn Duffey was stowed in a cupboard, before Nilsen noted the youth's body had become bloated; therefore, \"he went straight under the floorboards\".\n\nFollowing Duffey's murder, Nilsen began to kill with increasing frequency. Before the end of 1980, he killed a further five victims and attempted to murder one other; only one of these victims whom Nilsen murdered, 26-year-old William David Sutherland, has ever been identified. Nilsen's recollections of the unidentified victims are vague, but he graphically recalled how each victim had been murdered and just how long the body had been retained before dissection. One unidentified victim killed in November had moved his legs in a cycling motion as he was strangled (Nilsen is known to have absented himself from work between 11 and 18 November, likely due to this particular murder); another unidentified victim Nilsen had unsuccessfully attempted to resuscitate, before sinking to his knees and sobbing, before standing to expressly spit at his own image as he looked at himself in the mirror. On another occasion, he had lain in bed alongside the body of an unidentified victim as he listened to the classical theme \"Fanfare for the Common Man\" before bursting into tears.\n\nInevitably, the accumulated bodies beneath his floorboards attracted insects and created a foul odour — particularly throughout summer months. On occasions when Nilsen disinterred victims from beneath the floorboards, he noted that the bodies were covered with pupae and infested with maggots; some victims' heads had maggots crawling out of eye sockets and mouths. Nilsen placed deodorants beneath the floorboards and sprayed insecticide about the flat twice daily, but the odour of decay and the presence of flies remained.\n\nIn late 1980, Nilsen removed and dissected the bodies of each victim killed since December 1979 and burned them upon a communal bonfire he had constructed on waste ground behind his flat. To disguise the smell of the burning flesh of the six dissected bodies placed upon this pyre, Nilsen crowned the bonfire with an old car tyre. Three neighbourhood children stood to watch this particular bonfire, and Nilsen later wrote in his memoirs that he felt it would have seemed \"in order\" if he had seen these three children \"dancing around a mass funeral pyre\". When the bonfire had been reduced to ashes and cinders, Nilsen used a rake to search the debris for any recognisable bones. Noting a skull was still intact, he smashed it to pieces with his rake.\n\nOn or about 4 January 1981, Nilsen encountered an unidentified man whom he described for investigators as an \"18-year-old, blue-eyed\" young Scot at the Golden Lion pub in Soho; he was lured to Melrose Avenue upon the promise of partaking in a drinking contest. After Nilsen and this victim had consumed several beverages, Nilsen strangled him with a tie, and subsequently placed the body beneath the floorboards. Nilsen is known to have informed his employers he was ill and unable to attend work on 12 January in order that he could dissect both this victim and another unidentified victim he had killed approximately one month earlier. By April, Nilsen had killed two further unidentified victims: one of whom he described as an English skinhead whom he had met in Leicester Square; the other he described as \"Belfast boy\"; a man in his early 20s, approximately 5 ft. 9 in height, who originated from Belfast. In relation to the first of these three unidentified victims, Nilsen later casually reflected: \"End of the day, end of the drink, end of a person ... floorboards back, carpet replaced, and back to work at Denmark Street\".\n\nThe final victim to be murdered at Melrose Avenue was a 23-year-old named Malcolm Barlow, whom Nilsen discovered slumped against a wall outside his home on 17 September 1981. When Nilsen enquired as to Barlow's welfare, he was informed the medication Barlow was prescribed for his epilepsy had caused his legs to weaken. Nilsen informed Barlow he should be in hospital and, supporting him, walked the youth into his residence before phoning an ambulance. The following day, Barlow was released from hospital and returned to Nilsen's home, apparently to thank him. He was invited into Nilsen's residence and, after eating a meal, began drinking rum and coke before falling asleep on Nilsen's sofa. Nilsen manually strangled Barlow as he slept, before stowing his body beneath his kitchen sink the following morning.\n\nIn mid-1981, Nilsen's landlord decided to renovate 195 Melrose Avenue, and asked Nilsen to vacate the property. Nilsen was initially resistant to the proposal, but accepted an offer of £1,000 from his landlord to vacate his Melrose Avenue address in order that the property could be renovated. He moved into an attic flat at 23D Cranley Gardens in the Muswell Hill district of north London on 5 October 1981. The day before he vacated the property, Nilsen burned the dissected bodies of the last five victims he had killed at this address upon a third and final bonfire he constructed in the garden behind his flat. Again, Nilsen ensured the bonfire was crowned with an old car tyre to disguise the smell of burning flesh (Nilsen had already dissected the bodies of four of these victims in January and August, and only needed to complete the dissection of Barlow for this third bonfire).\n\nAt Cranley Gardens, Nilsen had no access to a garden, and as he resided in an attic flat, he was unable to stow any bodies beneath his floorboards. For almost two months, any acquaintances Nilsen encountered and lured to his flat were not assaulted in any manner, although he did attempt to strangle a 19-year-old student named Paul Nobbs on 23 November 1981, but himself refrained from completing the act. In March 1982, Nilsen encountered a 23-year-old named John Howlett as he (Nilsen) drank in a pub located close to Leicester Square. Howlett was lured to Nilsen's flat on the promise of continuing drinking with Nilsen.\n\nAt Cranley Gardens, both Nilsen and Howlett drank as they watched a film, before Howlett walked into Nilsen's front room and fell asleep in the bed (which was located in the front room at this time). One hour later, Nilsen unsuccessfully attempted to rouse Howlett, then sat on the edge of the bed drinking rum as he stared at Howlett, before deciding to kill him. Following a ferocious struggle (in which Howlett himself attempted to strangle his attacker), Nilsen strangled Howlett into unconsciousness with an upholstery strap before returning to his living room, shaking from the \"stress of the struggle\" in which he had believed he would be overpowered. On three occasions over the following ten minutes, Nilsen unsuccessfully attempted to kill this victim after noting he had resumed breathing, before deciding to fill his bathtub with water and drown him.\n\nFor over a week following Howlett's murder, Nilsen's own neck bore the victim's finger impressions.\n\nIn May 1982, Nilsen encountered Carl Stottor, a 21-year-old homosexual, as the youth drank at the Black Cap pub in Camden. Nilsen engaged Stottor in conversation, discovering the youth was depressed following a failed relationship. After plying the youth with alcohol, Nilsen invited Stottor to his flat, assuring his guest he had no intention of sexual activity. At Nilsen's flat, Stottor consumed further alcohol before falling asleep upon an open sleeping bag; he later awoke to find himself being strangled with Nilsen loudly whispering \"Stay still\".\n\nIn his subsequent testimony at Nilsen's trial, Stottor stated he initially believed Nilsen was trying to free him from the zip of the sleeping bag, before he returned to a state of unconsciousness. He then vaguely recalled hearing \"water running\" before realising he was immersed in the water and that Nilsen was attempting to drown him. After briefly succeeding in raising his head above the water, Stottor gasped the words, \"No more, please! No more!\" before Nilsen again submerged Stottor's head beneath the water.\n\nBelieving he had killed Stottor, Nilsen seated the youth in his armchair, then noted his mongrel dog, Bleep, licking Stottor's face. Nilsen realised the tiniest thread of life still clung in the youth: he rubbed Stottor's limbs and heart to increase circulation, covered the youth's body in blankets, then lay him upon his bed. When Stottor regained consciousness, Nilsen embraced him; he then explained to Stottor he had almost strangled himself on the zip of the sleeping bag, and that he had resuscitated him. Over the following two days, Stottor repeatedly lapsed in and out of consciousness. When Stottor had regained enough strength to question Nilsen as to his recollections of being strangled and immersed in cold water, Nilsen explained he had become caught in the zip of the sleeping bag following a nightmare, and that he had placed him in cold water as \"you were in shock\". Nilsen then led Stottor to a nearby railway station, where he informed the youth he hoped they might meet again before he bade him farewell.\n\nThree months after Nilsen's June 1982 promotion to the position of executive officer in his employment, he encountered a 27-year-old named Graham Allen attempting to hail a taxi in Shaftesbury Avenue. Allen accepted Nilsen's offer to accompany him to Cranley Gardens for a meal. As had been the case with several previous victims, Nilsen stated he could not recall the precise moment he had strangled Allen, but recalled approaching him as he sat eating an omelette with the full intention of murdering him. Allen's body was retained in the bathtub for a total of three days before Nilsen began the task of dissecting his body upon the kitchen floor. Nilsen is again known to have informed his employers he was ill and unable to attend work on 9 October 1982 — likely in order that he could complete the dissection of Allen's body.\n\nOn 26 January 1983, Nilsen killed his final victim, 20-year-old Stephen Sinclair. Sinclair was last seen by acquaintances of his in the company of Nilsen, walking in the direction of a tube station. At Nilsen's flat, Sinclair fell asleep in a drug- and alcohol-induced stupor in an armchair as Nilsen sat listening to the rock opera \"Tommy.\" Nilsen approached Sinclair, knelt before him and said to himself, \"Oh Stephen, here I go again\", before strangling Sinclair with a ligature constructed with a necktie and a rope. Noting crepe bandages upon each of Sinclair's wrists, Nilsen removed these to discover several deep slash marks from where Sinclair had recently tried to kill himself.\n\nFollowing his usual ritual of bathing the body, Nilsen lay Sinclair's body upon his bed, applied talcum powder to the body, then arranged three mirrors around the bed before himself lying naked alongside the dead youth. Several hours later, he turned Stephen's head towards him, before kissing the youth's body on the forehead and saying, \"Goodnight, Stephen\". Nilsen then fell asleep alongside the body.\n\nAs had been the case with both Howlett and Allen, Sinclair's body was subsequently dissected, with the various dismembered parts wrapped in plastic bags and stored in either a wardrobe, a tea chest or within a drawer located beneath the bathtub. The bags used to seal Sinclair's remains were sealed with the same crepe bandages Nilsen had found upon Sinclair's wrists. Nilsen attempted to dispose of the flesh, internal organs and smaller bones of all three victims killed at Cranley Gardens by flushing their dissected remains down his toilet. In a practice which he had conducted upon several victims killed at Melrose Avenue, he also boiled the heads, hands and feet to remove the flesh off these sections of the victims' bodies.\n\nOn 4 February 1983, Nilsen wrote a letter of complaint to estate agents complaining that the drains at Cranley Gardens were blocked, and that the situation for both himself and the other tenants at the property was intolerable. The following day, he refused to allow an acquaintance to enter his property (the reason being he had begun to dismember the body of Stephen Sinclair on the floor of his kitchen).\n\nNilsen's murders were first discovered by a Dyno-Rod employee, Michael Cattran, who responded to the complaints made by both Dennis Nilsen and other tenants of 23 Cranley Gardens regarding the drains of the property being blocked on 8 February 1983. Opening a drain cover at the side of the house, Cattran discovered the drain was packed with a flesh-like substance and numerous small bones of unknown origin. Cattran reported his suspicions to his supervisor, Gary Wheeler. As he had arrived at the property at dusk, Cattran and his supervisor agreed to postpone further investigation into the blockage until the following morning. Prior to leaving the property, Nilsen and a fellow tenant named Jim Allcock convened with Cattran to discuss the source of the substance. Upon hearing Cattran exclaim how similar the substance was in appearance to human flesh, Nilsen replied: \"It looks to me like someone has been flushing down their Kentucky Fried Chicken.\"\n\nAt 7:30a.m. the following morning, Cattran and Wheeler returned to 23 Cranley Gardens, by which time the drain had been cleared. This aroused the suspicions of both the drain inspector and his supervisor. Cattran discovered some scraps of flesh and four bones in a pipe leading from the drain which linked to the top flat of the house. To both Cattran and Wheeler, the bones looked as if they originated from a human hand. Both men immediately called the police who, upon closer inspection, discovered further small bones and scraps of what looked to the naked eye like either human or animal flesh in the same pipe leading from the drain. These remains were taken to the mortuary at Hornsey, where pathologist Professor David Bowen advised police that the remains were human, and that one particular piece of flesh he concluded had been from a human neck bore a ligature mark.\n\nUpon learning from fellow tenants of 23 Cranley Gardens that the tenant of the top floor flat from where the human remains had been flushed was Dennis Andrew Nilsen, and that he worked in a job centre in Kentish Town, Detective Chief Inspector Peter Jay and two colleagues opted to wait outside 23 Cranley Gardens until Nilsen returned home from work. When Nilsen returned home, DCI Jay introduced himself and his colleagues; explaining they had come to enquire about the blockage in the drains from his flat. Nilsen asked why the police were interested in his drains and also if the two officers present with Jay were health inspectors. In response, Jay informed Nilsen the other two were also police officers and requested access to his flat to discuss the matter further.\n\nThe three officers followed Nilsen into his flat, where they immediately noted the odour of rotting flesh. Nilsen queried further as to why the police were interested in his drains, to which he was informed the blockage had been caused by human remains. Nilsen feigned shock and bewilderment, stating, \"Good grief, how awful!\" In response, Jay replied: \"Don't mess about, where's the rest of the body?\" Nilsen responded calmly, admitting that the remainder of the body could be found in two plastic bags in a nearby wardrobe, from which DCI Jay and his colleagues noted the overpowering smell of decomposition emanated.\n\nThe officers did not open the cupboard, but asked Nilsen if there were any other body parts to be found, to which Nilsen replied: \"It's a long story; it goes back a long time. I'll tell you everything. I want to get it off my chest. Not here — at the police station\". He was then arrested and cautioned on suspicion of murder, before being taken to Hornsey Police Station.\n\nAs he was escorted to the police station by Detective Chief Inspector Jay and his colleagues, Nilsen was asked whether the remains in his flat belonged to one person or two. Staring out of the window of the police car, he replied, \"15 or 16, since 1978\".\n\nThat evening, a Detective Superintendent Chambers accompanied Peter Jay and Professor David Bowen to Cranley Gardens, where the plastic bags were removed from the wardrobe and taken to Hornsey Mortuary. One bag was found to contain two dissected torsos, one of which had been vertically dissected, and a shopping bag containing various internal organs. The second bag contained a human skull almost completely devoid of flesh, a severed head, and a torso with arms attached but hands missing. Both heads were found to have been subjected to moist heat.\n\nIn an interview conducted on 10 February, Nilsen confessed there were further human remains stowed in a tea chest in his living room, with other remains inside an upturned drawer in his bathroom. The dismembered body parts were the bodies of three men, all of whom he had killed by strangulation — usually with a tie. One victim he could not name; another he knew only as \"John the Guardsman\", and the third he identified as Stephen Sinclair. He also stated that, beginning in December 1978, he had killed \"12 or 13\" men at his former address, 195 Melrose Avenue. Nilsen also admitted to having unsuccessfully attempted to kill approximately seven other people, who had either escaped or, on one occasion, had been at the brink of death but had been revived and allowed to leave his residence.\n\nA further search for additional remains at 23 Cranley Gardens on 10 February revealed the lower section of a torso and two legs stowed in a bag in the bathroom, and a skull, a section of a torso, and various bones in the tea chest. The same day, Nilsen accompanied police to Melrose Avenue, where he indicated the three locations in the rear garden where he had burned the remains of his victims (investigators discovered over 1,000 fragments of bone from the garden at Melrose Avenue, many of them blackened and charred by fire).\n\nThe same day that the search for additional remains at Cranley Gardens was conducted, plumber Michael Cattran contacted the \"Daily Mirror\", informing them of the ongoing search for human remains at Cranley Gardens. This newspaper published the first information pertaining to the case on 10 February; Cattran's revelations subsequently sparked an intense national media interest in the case and the unfolding events. By 11 February, reporters from the \"Daily Mirror\" had obtained photographs from Nilsen's mother in Aberdeenshire, which appeared on their front page the following day. (As further details were revealed to the press over the following days revealing that Nilsen had confessed to murdering more people than any other person in British criminal history, the case attracted international press attention.)\n\nUnder English law, the police had 48 hours in which to charge Nilsen or release him. Assembling the remains of the victims killed at Cranley Gardens on the floor of Hornsey Mortuary, Professor David Bowen was able to confirm the fingerprints on one body matched those on police files of Stephen Sinclair. At 5:40 pm on 11 February, Nilsen was charged with the murder of Stephen Sinclair, and a statement revealing this was released to the press. Formal questioning of Nilsen began the same evening, with Nilsen agreeing to be represented by a solicitor (a facility he had earlier declined). Police interviewed Nilsen on 16 separate occasions over the following days, in interviews which totaled over 30 hours.\n\nNilsen was adamant he was uncertain as to why he had killed, simply saying \"I'm hoping you will tell me that\" when asked his motive for the murders. He was adamant the decision to kill was not made until moments before the act of murder. Most victims had been killed by strangulation; on several occasions, he had drowned the victims once they had been strangled into unconsciousness. Once the victim had been killed, he typically bathed the victim's body, shaved any hair from the torso to conform it to his physical ideal, then applied makeup to any obvious blemishes upon the skin. The body was usually dressed in socks and underpants, before Nilsen draped the victims' around him as he talked to the corpse. With most victims, Nilsen masturbated as he stood alongside or knelt above the body, and Nilsen confessed to having occasionally engaged in intercrural sex with his victims' bodies, but repeatedly stressed to investigators he had never actually penetrated his victims — explaining that his victims were \"too perfect and beautiful for the pathetic ritual of commonplace sex\".\n\nAll the victims' personal possessions were destroyed following the ritual of bathing their bodies in an effort to obliterate their identity prior to their murder and their now becoming what Nilsen described as a \"prop\" in his fantasies. In several instances, Nilsen talked to the victim's body as it remained seated in a chair or prone on his bed and he recalled being emotional as he marvelled at the beauty of his victims' bodies. With reference to one victim, Kenneth Ockenden, Nilsen noted that Ockenden's \"body and skin were very beautiful\", adding the sight \"almost brought me to tears\". Another, unidentified victim had been so emaciated that he had simply been discarded under the floorboards.\n\nThe bodies of the victims killed at his previous address were kept for as long as decomposition would allow: upon noting any major signs of decomposition, Nilsen stowed it beneath his floorboards. If a body did not display any signs of decomposition, he occasionally alternately stowed it beneath the floorboards and retrieved it before again masturbating as he stood over or lay alongside the body. Make-up was again applied to \"enhance its appearance\" and to obscure blemishes.\n\nWhen questioned as to why the heads found at Cranley Gardens had been subjected to moist heat, Nilsen stated that he had frequently boiled the heads of his victims in a large cooking pot on his stove in order that the internal contents evaporated, thus removing the need to dispose of the brain and flesh. The torsos and limbs of the three victims killed at this address were dissected within a week or so of their murder before being wrapped in plastic bags and stowed in the three locations he had indicated to police; the internal organs and smaller bones he flushed down the toilet. This practice — which had led to his arrest — had been the only method he could consider to dispose of the internal organs and soft tissue as, unlike at Melrose Avenue, he had no exclusive use of the garden of the property.\n\nAt Melrose Avenue, Nilsen typically retained the victims' bodies for a much longer period before disposing of the remains. He kept \"three or four\" bodies stowed beneath the floorboards before he dissected the remains, which he would wrap inside plastic bags and either return under the floorboards or, in two instances, place inside suitcases which had been left at the property by a previous tenant. The remains stowed inside suitcases — those of Kenneth Ockenden and Martyn Duffey — were placed inside a shed in the rear garden, and were disposed of upon the second bonfire Nilsen had constructed at Melrose Avenue. Other dissected remains — minus the internal organs — were returned beneath the floorboards or placed upon a bonfire he had constructed in the garden.\n\nNilsen confirmed that on four occasions, he had removed the accumulated bodies from beneath his floorboards and dissected the remains, and on three of these occasions, he had then disposed of the accumulated remains upon an assembled bonfire. On more than one occasion, he had removed the internal organs from the victims' bodies and placed them in bags, which he then typically dumped behind a fence to be eaten by wildlife. All the bodies of the victims killed at Melrose Avenue were dismembered after several weeks or months of internment beneath the floorboards and Nilsen recalled that the putrefaction of these victims' bodies made this task vile; he recalled having to fortify his nerves with whisky and having to grab handfuls of salt with which to brush aside maggots from the remains. Often, he vomited as he dissected the bodies, before wrapping the dismembered limbs inside plastic bags and carrying the remains to the bonfires. Nonetheless, immediately prior to his dissecting the victims' bodies, Nilsen masturbated as he knelt or sat alongside the corpse. This, he stated, was his symbolic gesture of saying goodbye to his victims.\n\nWhen questioned as to whether he had any remorse for his crimes, Nilsen replied: \"I wished I could stop, but I couldn't. I had no other thrill or happiness\". He also emphasised that he took no pleasure from the act of killing, but \"worshipped the art and the act of death\".\n\nOn 11 February 1983, Nilsen was officially charged with the murder of Stephen Sinclair. He was transferred to Brixton Prison to be held on remand until his trial.\n\nAccording to Nilsen, upon being transferred to Brixton Prison to await trial, his mood was one of \"resignation and relief\", and his belief was that he would be viewed, in accordance with law, as innocent until proven guilty. Nilsen objected to wearing a prison uniform while on remand. In protest at having to wear a prison uniform and what he interpreted to be breaches of prison rules, Nilsen threatened to protest against his remand conditions by refusing to wear any clothes; as a result of this threat, he was not allowed to leave his cell. On 1 August, Nilsen threw the contents of his chamber pot out of his cell, hitting several prison officers. This incident resulted in Nilsen being found guilty on 9 August of assaulting prison officers and subsequently spending 56 days in solitary confinement.\n\nOn 26 May 1983, Nilsen was committed to stand trial at the Old Bailey on five counts of murder and two of attempted murder (a sixth murder charge was later added). Throughout this committal hearing, Nilsen was represented by a solicitor named Ronald Moss, whom he had previously dismissed as his legal representation on 21 April, before Moss was again reappointed as Nilsen's legal representative after Nilsen had complained to magistrates he had been afforded no facilities with which he could mount his own defence. Moss was to remain Nilsen's legal representative until July 1983, when Nilsen — again expressing his intention to defend himself — discharged his legal aid. (On 5 August, Nilsen reappointed Ronald Moss as his legal representative.)\n\nInitially, Nilsen had intended to plead guilty to each charge of murder at his upcoming trial. With Nilsen's full consent, Ronald Moss had fully prepared Nilsen's defence; five weeks before his trial, Nilsen again dismissed the legal services of Ronald Moss, and opted instead to be represented by Ralph Haeems, upon whose advice Nilsen agreed to plead not guilty by diminished responsibility.\n\nDennis Nilsen was brought to trial on 24 October 1983, charged with six counts of murder and two of attempted murder. He was tried at the Old Bailey, before Judge Sir David Croom-Johnson.\n\nThe trial began with Nilsen being asked by the chief administrator of the court whether he entered a plea of guilty or not guilty in relation to each charge. In response to each charge, Nilsen entered a plea of not guilty. Upon completion of his pleas, the jury was sworn into the courtroom.\n\nThe primary dispute between the prosecuting and defence counsel was not whether Nilsen had killed, but his state of mind before, during and after he had killed, with the prosecuting counsel, Allan Green, arguing that Nilsen was sane, in full control of his actions, and had killed with premeditation, and the defence counsel, Ivan Lawrence, arguing that Nilsen suffered from diminished responsibility, rendering him incapable of forming the actual intention to commit murder, and should therefore be convicted of manslaughter as opposed to murder.\n\nThe prosecution counsel opened the case for the Crown by describing the events of February 1983 leading to the identification of human remains in the drains at Cranley Gardens and the subsequent arrest of the defendant, the discovery of three dismembered bodies in Nilsen's property, his detailed confession, his leading investigators to the charred bone fragments of 12 further victims killed at Melrose Avenue, and the efforts Nilsen had taken to conceal his crimes. In a tactful reference to the primary dispute between opposing counsels at the trial, Allan Green closed his opening speech with a reply Nilsen had given to police in response to a question as to whether he needed to kill: \"At the precise moment of the act [of murder], I believe I am right in doing the act\". To counteract this argument, Green added: \"The Crown says that even if there was mental abnormality, that was not sufficient to diminish substantially his responsibility for these killings\".\n\nThe first witness to testify for the prosecution was Douglas Stewart, who testified that in November 1980, he had awoken in Nilsen's flat to find his ankles bound and Nilsen strangling him as Nilsen straddled him. Successfully overpowering Nilsen, Stewart testified that Nilsen had then shouted, \"Take my money\"! This, the prosecution attested, reflected Nilsen's rational, cool presence of mind in that Nilsen hoped to be overheard by other tenants. Upon leaving Nilsen's residence, Stewart had reported the attack to police, who in turn questioned Nilsen. Noting conflicting details in accounts given by both men, police had dismissed the incident as a lovers' quarrel. Upon cross-examination, the defence counsel sought to undermine Stewart's credibility, pointing to minor inconsistencies in the testimony, the fact he had consumed much alcohol on the night in question, and suggesting his memory had been selectively magnified as he had previously sold his story to the press.\n\nOn 25 October the court heard testimony from two further men who had survived attempts by Nilsen to strangle them. The first of these, Paul Nobbs, provided testimony which the prosecution asserted was evidence of Nilsen's self-control and ability to refrain from homicidal impulses. A university student, Nobbs testified that he accompanied Nilsen to Cranley Gardens for alcohol and sex and woke in the early hours of the morning with \"a terrible headache\". Upon washing his face in Nilsen's bathroom, as Nobbs noted his eyes were bloodshot and his face completely red, Nilsen had exclaimed, \"God! You look bloody awful\"! Nilsen then advised the youth to see a doctor. Nobbs had not reported the attack to police for fear of his sexuality being discovered. Contrary to the prosecution claims, the defence counsel asserted that Nobbs' testimony reflected Nilsen's rational self being unable to control his impulses. The fact Nilsen had selected a university student as a potential victim was at odds with the prosecution's claim that Nilsen intentionally selected rootless males whose disappearance was unlikely to be noted.\n\nImmediately after the testimony of Paul Nobbs had concluded, Carl Stottor took the stand to recount how, in May 1982, Nilsen had attempted to strangle and drown him, before bringing him \"back to life\". Stottor's voice frequently quavered with emotion as he recounted how Nilsen had repeatedly attempted to drown him in his bathtub as he pleaded in vain for his life to be spared, and how he later awoke to find Nilsen's mongrel dog licking his face; on several occasions, the judge had to allow Stottor time to regain his composure. (The evidence provided by Stottor was not included as part of the indictment against Nilsen as his whereabouts were not known until after the indictment had been completed.)\n\nDetective Chief Inspector Peter Jay then recounted the circumstances of Nilsen's arrest and his \"calm, matter-of-fact\" confessions, before reading to the court several statements volunteered by Nilsen following his arrest. In one of these statements, Nilsen had said: \"I have no tears for my victims; I have no tears for myself, nor those bereaved by my actions\". Jay admitted it was unusual for anyone accused of such horrific crimes to be so forthcoming in providing information, and conceded upon questioning by defence counsel that Nilsen not only provided most of the evidence against himself, but also encouraged the discovery of evidence which could contradict his own version of events. Following the testimony of DCI Jay, Detective Superintendent Chambers recited Nilsen's formal confession to the court. This testimony included graphic descriptions of the ritualistic and sexual acts Nilsen performed with his victims' bodies, his various methods of storage of bodies and/or body parts, dismemberment and disposal, and the problems decomposition — particularly regarding colonies of maggots — afforded him. Several members of the jury were visibly shaken throughout this testimony; others looked at Nilsen with incredulous expressions on their faces as Nilsen listened to the testimony with apparent indifference. This testimony lasted until the following morning, when the prosecution included several exhibits into evidence. This included the cooking pot in which Nilsen had boiled the heads of the victims killed at Cranley Gardens, the cutting board Nilsen had used to dissect John Howlett, and several rusted catering knives which had formerly belonged to victim Martyn Duffey.\n\nTwo psychiatrists testified on behalf of the defence. The first of these, Dr. James MacKeith, began his testimony on 26 October. MacKeith testified as to how, through a lack of emotional development, Nilsen experienced difficulty expressing any emotion other than anger, and his tendency to treat other human beings as components of his fantasies. The psychiatrist also described Nilsen's association between unconscious bodies and sexual arousal; stating that Nilsen possessed narcissistic traits, an impaired sense of identity, and was able to depersonalise other people. He stated his conclusions that Nilsen displayed many signs of maladaptive behaviour, the combination of which, in one man, was lethal. These factors could be attributed to an unspecified personality disorder from which MacKeith believed Nilsen suffered. In response to prosecution contention that, in attributing an unspecified disorder to Nilsen, MacKeith was undecided in his conclusions, MacKeith contended that this unspecified personality disorder was severe enough to substantially reduce Nilsen's responsibility.\n\nThe second psychiatrist to testify for the defence, Dr. Patrick Gallwey, diagnosed Nilsen with a \"borderline, false-self as if pseudo-normal, narcissistic personality disorder\", with occasional outbreaks of schizoid disturbances that he [Nilsen] managed most of the time to keep at bay; Gallwey stated, in episodic breakdowns, Nilsen became predominantly schizoid—acting in an impulsive, violent and sudden manner. Gallwey further added that someone suffering from these episodic breakdowns is most likely to disintegrate under circumstances of social isolation. In effect, Nilsen was not guilty of \"malice aforethought\". Upon cross-examination, Allan Green largely focused upon the degree of awareness shown by Nilsen and his ability to make decisions. Dr. Gallwey conceded that Nilsen was intellectually aware of his actions, but stressed that, due to his personality disorder, Nilsen did not appreciate the nature of his actions.\n\nOn 31 October, the prosecution called Dr. Paul Bowden to testify in rebuttal of the psychiatrists who had testified for the defence counsel. Prior to Nilsen's trial, Dr. Bowden had interviewed the defendant on 16 separate occasions in interviews totalling over 14 hours. Over two days, Dr. Bowden testified that, although he found Nilsen to be abnormal in a colloquial sense, he had concluded Nilsen to be a manipulative person who had been capable of forming relationships, but had forced himself to objectify people. Refuting the testimony of Dr. MacKeith and Dr. Gallwey, Bowden further testified he had found no evidence of maladaptive behaviour, and that Nilsen suffered from no disorder of the mind.\n\nFollowing the closing arguments of both prosecution and defence, the jury retired to consider their verdict on 3 November 1983. The following day, the jury returned with a majority verdict of guilty upon six counts of murder and one of attempted murder, with a unanimous verdict of guilty in relation to the attempted murder of Paul Nobbs. The judge sentenced Nilsen to life imprisonment with a recommendation that he serve a minimum of 25 years' imprisonment.\n\nFollowing his conviction, Nilsen was transferred to Wormwood Scrubs prison to begin his sentence. As a Category A prisoner, Nilsen was assigned his own cell, and could mix freely with other inmates.\n\nNilsen did not lodge an appeal, accepting that the Crown case — that he had had the capacity to control his actions and that he had killed with premeditation — was essentially correct. He further elaborated on the day of his conviction that he took an enormous thrill from the \"social seduction; the getting the 'friend' back; the decision to kill; the body and its disposal\". Nilsen also claimed drunkenness was the sole reason at least two of his attempted murders were unsuccessful.\n\nIn December 1983, Nilsen was cut on the face and chest with a razor blade by an inmate named Albert Moffatt, resulting in injuries requiring 89 stitches. Afterward, he was briefly transferred to Parkhurst Prison, before being transferred to Wakefield Prison, where he remained until 1990. In 1991, he was transferred to a vulnerable-prisoner unit at Full Sutton Prison upon concerns for his safety. He remained there until 1993, when he was transferred to Whitemoor Prison, again as a Category A prisoner, and with increased segregation from other inmates.\n\nThe minimum term of 25 years' to life imprisonment to which Nilsen was sentenced in 1983 was replaced by a whole life tariff by the Home Secretary (Michael Howard) in December 1994. This ruling ensured he would never be released from prison, a punishment he accepted.\n\nIn 2003, Nilsen was again transferred to HMP Full Sutton, where he remained incarcerated as a Category A prisoner. In the prison workshop, Nilsen translated books into braille. He spent much of his free time reading and writing, and was allowed to paint and compose music upon a keyboard. He also exchanged letters with numerous people who sought his correspondence. Nilsen remained at HMP Full Sutton until his death on 12 May 2018.\n\nIn September 1992, Central Television conducted an interview with Dennis Nilsen as part of the TV series \"Viewpoint 1993 – Murder In Mind\", which focused upon offender profiling. A four-minute section of this interview, in which Nilsen frankly discussed his crimes, was initially scheduled to be broadcast on 19 January 1993; the Home Office sought to ban the interview from being broadcast on the grounds that they had not granted permission for Central Television to conduct interviews with Nilsen which were later broadcast to the public, and claimed ownership of copyrighted material.\n\nCentral Television challenged the ruling by the Home Office to ban the interview from public screening, citing sections of the 1988 Copyright, Designs and Patents Act, and that full permission to conduct an interview with Nilsen had been granted in advance. The decision not to ban the interview from public screening was made on 26 January 1993, and the interview was screened in full that evening.\n\nNilsen remained alert to trade union activities, and repeatedly sought legal avenues to challenge real and perceived abuses of prison rules by warders — regularly petitioning the Home Office and, later, the European Court of Human Rights with complaints. As a result, he was an unpopular inmate with successive governors at the various prisons in which he was incarcerated.\nIn October 2001, Nilsen brought a judicial review against the prison service, citing that the homosexual softcore pornography magazines \"Vulcan\" and \"Him\", to which he subscribed regularly, had some images and articles of a more explicit nature removed before the magazine reached him. The legal case he brought against the prison service was dismissed because he could not establish that any breach of his human rights had occurred.\n\nIn the years following his incarceration, Nilsen composed an unpublished, 400-page autobiography, entitled \"The History of a Drowning Boy\" (the title being a reference to his concepts of the tranquillity of death following the death of his grandfather at sea and his own near-fatal drowning in 1954). A copy of \"The History of a Drowning Boy\" remains in the possession of one of the people with whom Nilsen corresponded and in whom Nilsen held unquestioning trust. In his autobiography, Nilsen stated that, beginning with his service in the British Army, he constantly lived two separate lives: his \"real life\" and his \"fantasy life\". He writes: \"When I was with people, I was in the \"real\" world, and in my private life, I snapped instantly into my fantasy life. I could oscillate between the two with instant ease.\" With reference to his murders, Nilsen claimed that his emotional state upon the dates of the murders, in conjunction with the amount of alcohol he had consumed, were both core factors in his decision to kill. He further emphasised that, when feeling low, seizing an opportunity to satisfy the sexual fantasies he had developed in which the victim is the young, attractive and passive partner, and he the older active partner, temporarily relieved him of a general feeling of inadequacy.\nThe first murder victim of Dennis Nilsen was identified in 2006 as 14-year-old Stephen Dean Holmes. Formal identification was confirmed via a combination of circumstantial evidence and by Nilsen identifying a photograph of the youth shown to him by police (all bone fragments found at Melrose Avenue had been destroyed). Nilsen was not charged with this murder as the Crown Prosecution Service decided that a prosecution would not be in the public interest, and would not contribute to his current sentence.\n\nAt least four victims killed between 1980 and 1981 at Melrose Avenue remain unidentified. A forensics expert testified at Nilsen's 1983 trial that \"at least eight bodies\" had been incinerated at Melrose Avenue, academically confirming he had murdered at least 11 victims. Several items confiscated from Nilsen's Cranley Gardens address — some of which had been introduced as evidence at Nilsen's trial — are on display at New Scotland Yard's Black Museum. These exhibits include the stove upon which Nilsen had boiled the heads of his final three victims; the knives he had used to dissect several of his victims' bodies; the headphones Nilsen had used to strangle Kenneth Ockenden; the ligature he had fashioned to strangle his last victim; and the bath from his Cranley Gardens address in which he had drowned John Howlett and retained the body of Graham Allen prior to dissection.\n\nNilsen was still officially a prisoner when he died, at York Hospital, on 12 May 2018. He had been taken to the hospital on 10 May after complaining of stomach pains; he later suffered a blood clot as a result of surgery complications.\n\nNilsen is known to have killed 12 young men and boys between 1978 and 1983; it is suspected that the true number of victims may be 15. At least nine victims had been killed at 195 Melrose Avenue, with his final three victims being killed at 23 Cranley Gardens. Of Nilsen's eight identified victims, only three — Stephen Holmes, Kenneth Ockenden and Graham Allen — had a permanent address at the time of their murder, with the remaining victims largely (though not exclusively) consisting of vagrants, runaways and male prostitutes.\n\nIn 1992, Nilsen claimed the true total of victims he killed was 12, and that he had fabricated the three additional victims he initially confessed to having killed at Melrose Avenue, both in response to pressure as he was being interviewed as well as to simply \"stick with the figure\" of approximately 15 victims he had provided investigators with as he was initially escorted to Hornsey Police Station. Nilsen said that three unidentified victims he had initially confessed to killing — an Irishman in September 1980; a \"hippy\" in November or December 1980, and a skinhead in April 1981 — had been invented to simply \"complement the continuity of evidence\". Detective Chief Inspector Jay dismisses Nilsen's claims to have only killed 12 victims, stating that in the more than 30 hours of interviews police had conducted with Nilsen, when discussing the 15 victims he had initially confessed to killing, he had never provided any inconsistencies in the physical characteristics, the date or place of encounter, the act of murder, or the ritual he observed with the body of any of the 15 victims.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48504953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48504953", "title": "Dutch Sandwich", "text": "Dutch Sandwich\n\nDutch Sandwich is a base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") corporate tax tool, used mostly by U.S. multinationals to avoid incurring EU withholding taxes on untaxed profits as they were being moved to non-EU tax havens (such as the Bermuda black hole). These untaxed profits could have originated from within the EU, or from outside the EU, but in most cases were routed to major EU corporate-focused tax havens, such as Ireland and Luxembourg, by the use of other BEPS tools. The Dutch Sandwich was often used with Irish BEPS tools such as the Double Irish, the Single Malt and the Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets (\"CAIA\") tools. In 2010, Ireland changed its tax-code to enable Irish BEPS tools avoid such withholding taxes without needed a Dutch Sandwich.\n\nThe structure relies on the tax loophole that most EU countries will allow royalty payments be made to other EU countries without incurring withholding taxes. However, the Dutch tax code allows royalty payments to be made to several offshore tax havens (like Bermuda), without incurring Dutch withholding tax.\n\nThe Dutch sandwich therefore behaves like a \"backdoor\" out of the EU corporate tax system and into un-taxed non-EU offshore locations.\n\nThese royalty payments require the creation of intellectual property (\"IP\") licensing schemes, and therefore the Dutch sandwich is limited to specific sectors that are capable of generating substantial IP. This is most common in the technology, pharmaceutical, medical devices and specific industrials (who have patents) sectors.\n\nIts creation is generally attributed to Joop Wijn (State Secretary of Economic Affairs in May 2003) after lobbying from U.S. tax lawyers from 2003-2006.\n\nThe Dutch sandwich is most commonly associated with the double Irish tax structure (and Irish-based US technology multinationals like Google).\n\nThe double Irish uses an Irish company (IRL2) that is legally incorporated in Ireland (thus the US tax code regards it as foreign), but is \"managed and controlled\" from, say, Bermuda (thus the Irish tax code regards it as foreign). The Dutch sandwich (with the Dutch company as the \"dutch slice\" in the \"sandwich\") is used to move money to this Irish company (IRL2), without incurring Irish withholding tax. \n\nLobbying from PriceWaterhouseCoopers Irish Managing Partner Feargal O'Rourke (the labelled \"architect\" of the double Irish), led to the Irish Government relaxing the rules in 2010 for making Irish transfers (as royalty payments) to non-EU companies (i.e. IRL2), without incurring Irish withholding tax (removing need for the Dutch sandwich), but they are subject to several conditions that will not suit all types of double Irish arrangements, and thus several US multinationals in Ireland continued with the classic \"double Irish Dutch sandwich\" combination.\n\nAfter pressure from the EU, the double Irish loophole was closed in 2015, however, new Irish schemes have been created to replace it:\n\nThe dutch sandwich has been a key vehicle in making the Netherlands the largest (almost equal to the next 4 combined), of the 5 global conduit ofcs that were identified in the seminal analysis of offshore financial centres \"Uncovering Offshore Financial Centers: Conduits and Sinks in the Global Corporate Ownership Network\". \n\nThe 5 global conduit ofcs (Netherlands, United Kingdom, Ireland, Singapore and Switzerland) are countries that are not formally labelled \"tax havens\" by the EU/OCED, but who have \"advanced\" legal and tax structuring vehicles that can legally route funds to 24 tax havens (called sink ofcs), without incurring tax in the conduit ofc. \n\nConduit ofcs tend to be dominated by major offices of large law and accounting firms (who create the vehicles), while sink ofcs have smaller operations (often branches of these firms). They advise clients on anticipating future changes (i.e. from slow-moving OECD BEPS processes) that may need new loopholes. They write most of the State's relevant SPV legislation (where they create the new loopholes).\n\nIreland enables US IP-heavy multinationals to reroute gross profits made in any EU country, into Ireland, tax-free. The Netherlands then enables this Irish money to get to a tax haven.\n\n"}
{"id": "2911099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2911099", "title": "Edict to Repel Foreign Vessels", "text": "Edict to Repel Foreign Vessels\n\nThe was a law promulgated by the Tokugawa Shogunate in 1825 to the effect that all foreign vessels should be driven away from Japanese waters.\n\nAn example of the law being put into practice was the \"Morrison\" Incident of 1837, in which a merchant ship bearing Japanese citizens was fired upon.\n\nThe law was repealed in 1842.\n\n"}
{"id": "22613854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22613854", "title": "Ex parte Vallandigham", "text": "Ex parte Vallandigham\n\nEx parte Vallandigham, 68 U.S. (1 Wall.) 243 (1864), is a United States Supreme Court case, involving a former congressman Clement Vallandigham of Ohio, who had violated an Army order against the public expression of sympathy for the Confederate States and their cause. Vallandigham was tried before a military tribunal by Major General Ambrose E. Burnside for treason after he delivered an incendiary speech at Mount Vernon; he then appealed the tribunal's verdict to the Supreme Court, arguing that he as a civilian could not be tried before a military tribunal.\n\nIn February 1864, the Supreme Court avoided ruling on the question by instead unanimously holding that they could not take appeals from military tribunals at all.\n\nClement Vallandigham, a member of the United States House of Representatives, was the acknowledged leader of the pro-Confederate faction known as Copperheads in Ohio. After General Burnside, commander of the Military District of Ohio, issued General Order Number 38, warning that the \"habit of declaring sympathies for the enemy\" would not be tolerated, Vallandigham gave a major speech (May 1, 1863) charging the war was being fought not to save the Union but to free blacks and enslave whites. To those who supported the war he declared, \"Defeat, debt, taxation [and] sepulchres - these are your trophies.\" He also called for \"King Lincoln's\" removal from the presidency.\n\nAccordingly, on May 5, Vallandingham was arrested as a violator of General Order No. 38. Vallandigham's enraged supporters burned the offices of the Dayton Journal, the local Republican newspaper. He was tried by a military court on 6–7 May (the court adjourning to let him obtain a lawyer), convicted of \"uttering disloyal sentiments\" and attempting to hinder the prosecution of the war, and sentenced to two years' confinement in a military prison. A Federal circuit judge upheld Vallandigham's arrest and military trial as a valid exercise of the President's war powers .\n\nDespite repeated petitions, President Lincoln refused to repudiate Burnside's actions or release Vallandigham. In a letter written in response to one meeting of Albany Democrats, Lincoln explained his position:\n\nHowever, in late May, Lincoln commuted Vallandigham's sentence to banishment to the Confederacy, from where (in July) he went to Canada.\n\nMeanwhile, Vallandigham's lawyers appealed the military tribunal's decision to the Supreme Court. The Court issued a unanimous ruling in February 1864, refusing to address Vallandigham's main argument that the military tribunal lacked jurisdiction to try him. Instead, they said the Court was only authorized to take appeals as regulated by Congress - and Congress had never authorized them to take an appeal from a military tribunal. Accordingly, they denied Vallandigham's appeal for lack of jurisdiction.\n\nAfter the war was over, the Court would again revisit this issue in Ex parte Milligan, a similar case where, instead of appealing his sentence by a military tribunal, Milligan would file for a writ of habeas corpus. Then, the court upheld Milligan and Vallandigham's claim that military tribunals lacked authority to try civilians when civil courts were open.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "31764581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31764581", "title": "Executive Order 13514", "text": "Executive Order 13514\n\nExecutive Order 13514 is an Executive Order titled Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance which U.S. President Barack Obama issued on October 5, 2009. EO 13514 was replaced by Executive Order 13693, titled \"Planning for Federal Sustainability in the Next Decade\", issued by Obama on March 19, 2015. The Office of the Federal Environmental Executive (the name of which office was changed to the Office of Federal Sustainability by Executive Order 13693), which is housed at the Council on Environmental Quality within the Executive Office of the President of the United States, oversees policy, guidance, and implementation of the sustainability Executive Order.\n\nExecutive Order 13514 required the Federal agencies to measure and reduce greenhouse gas pollution resulting from Federal operations, improve energy efficiency, increase use of renewable energy, reduce water consumption, and purchase energy efficiency and environmentally preferable goods and materials. The aggregate Federal government greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal resulting from EO 13514 totaled 28% by 2020, corresponding to a projected $8 - $11 billion reduction in the Federal government's energy bill.\n\nThe Executive Order also required Federal agencies to publish an annual Strategic Sustainability Plan, and called on the Office of Management and Budget to measure and report on Federal agent progress against goals in annual sustainability scorecards. Sustainability scorecard results are published by the Office of Federal Sustainability.\n\nExecutive Order 13514 further mandated that at least 15 percent of existing federal buildings and leases should meet the Guiding Principles for Federal Sustainable Buildings by 2015, and that annual progress be made toward 100 percent conformance of all federal buildings, with a goal of 100% of all new federal buildings achieving zero-net-energy by 2030. The U.S. government is the largest consumer of energy in America. It has more than 350,000 buildings, and many of these buildings are energy-inefficient. Fifteen percent of 500,000 buildings is 75,000 buildings.\n\nThe Executive Order states that \"the Federal Government must lead by example ... increase energy efficiency; measure, report, and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions from direct and indirect activities ... design, construct, maintain, and operate high performance sustainable buildings in sustainable locations; strengthen the vitality and livability of the communities in which Federal facilities are located; and inform Federal employees about and involve them in the achievement of these goals.\"\n\n\"Zero-net-energy building\" is defined in Executive Order 13514 as \"a building that is designed, constructed, and operated to require a greatly reduced quantity of energy to operate, meet the balance of energy needs from sources of energy that do not produce greenhouse gases, and therefore result in no net emissions of greenhouse gases and be economically viable.\"\n\nThe implementation of Executive Order 13514 was overseen by the Office of the Federal Environmental Executive. The name of the Office was subsequently changed to the Office of Federal Sustainability by Executive Order 13693.\n\nFurthering the goals of Executive Order 13514, President Obama issued four additional Presidential Memoranda to increase building efficiency and create jobs by requiring agencies to complete $2 billion in Energy Savings Performance Contracts, to purchase biobased and renewable products, to purchase green fleet vehicles and to launch an EV pilot, and to purchase at least 20% renewable energy. Comprehensive Federal agency guidance and implementing instructions can be found on FedCenter.gov, an interagency resource hosted by the US Army Corps of Engineers.\n\nThese Executive Orders and Presidential Memoranda build on more than 20 years of Presidential Executive Orders and Federal leadership in sustainability, beginning in 1993 when former President Bill Clinton established the Federal sustainability agenda and the Office of the Federal Environmental Executive with Executive Order 12873 which focused on eliminating waste and expanding the use of recycled materials. Former President George W. Bush expanded the scope of the Federal sustainability agenda and the role of the Federal Environmental Executive through Executive Order 13423 which added sustainable building, renewable energy, environmental management systems, and electronic waste recycling to the agenda. EO 13423 also created Presidential Awards for agency achievement in meeting the President's sustainability goals. Executive Order 13514, and subsequent Executive Orders including EO 13693, built on these foundations.\n\nUnder EO 13514, each Federal department and agency was required to submit and publish an annual Sustainability Plan. Agencies were also subsequently required to include Adaptation plans that outlined how each Department and agency would respond to the challenges of climate change to secure their missions. \n\nIn 2011, the Obama Administration established an annual symposium in partnership with the George Washington University. The purpose of the GreenGov Symposium was to share successes and lessons learned across the Federal community and to foster publish-private partnerships to learn from leading corporate sustainability practices.\n\nDuring the George W. Bush Administration, the White House Office of Management and Budget was tasked with responsibility for measuring the performance of the Federal departments and agencies towards achieving Federal sustainability goals. These performance scorecards were advanced by the Obama Administration and continue under the Trump Administration. Assisted by the United States Department of Energy Federal Energy Management Program, the Office of Management and Budget conducts an extensive data call each year to collect information about Federal department and agency energy use, water use, and other metrics. The results of these scorecards are published by the Office of Federal Sustainability (formerly called the Office of the Federal Environmental Executive) at .</nowiki>\n\nOriginally established by Executive Order 13423 under President George W. Bush, the GreenGov Presidential Leadership Awards recognized exceptional agency and team achievements towards realizing Federal sustainability goals. Federal sustainability achievements recognized through these awards included net-zero building, EV fleets, and species conservation. A historical list of GreenGov Presidential Award recipients can be found at FedCenter.gov .</nowiki>\n\nSpecifically as related to Federal sustainable buildings and achieving net-zero-energy, goals can be summarized as follows:\n\n\nAccording to a White House report of March 30, 2011:\n\n\nExecutive Order 13514 was replaced by Executive Order 13693, titled \"Planning for Federal Sustainability in the Next Decade\", issued by Obama on March 19, 2015. On May 17, 2018, U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order repealing Executive Order 13693, including all requirements to reduce greenhouse gas pollution. The Trump Executive Order maintains the Federal government's commitment to energy efficiency and to meeting all statutory requirements to reduce energy use, to conserve water, and to increase the use of renewable energy. All previous Federal Environmental Executives and Federal Chief Sustainability officers including those serving under former Presidents Clinton, Bush, and Obama joined together to call on the Trump Administration to maintain the Federal government's commitment to sustainability.\n"}
{"id": "1782236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1782236", "title": "Federal Rules of Evidence", "text": "Federal Rules of Evidence\n\nFirst adopted in 1975, the Federal Rules of Evidence codify the evidence law that applies in United States federal courts. In addition, many states in the United States have either adopted the Federal Rules of Evidence, with or without local variations, or have revised their own evidence rules or codes to at least partially follow the federal rules.\n\nThe law of evidence governs the proof of facts and the inferences flowing from such facts during the trial of civil and criminal lawsuits. Before the twentieth century, evidence law was largely the product of decisional law. During the twentieth century, projects such as the California Evidence Code and the Uniform Rules of Evidence encouraged the codification of those common law evidence rules. In 1965, Chief Justice Earl Warren appointed an advisory committee of fifteen to draft the new rules. The committee was composed of lawyers and legal scholars from across the country.\n\nThe Federal Rules of Evidence began as rules proposed pursuant to a statutory grant of authority, the Rules Enabling Act, but were eventually enacted as statutory law.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court circulated drafts of the FRE in 1969, 1971 and 1972, but Congress then exercised its power under the Rules Enabling Act to suspend implementation of the FRE until it could study them further. After a long delay blamed on the Watergate scandal, the FRE became federal law on January 2, 1975, when President Ford signed An Act to Establish Rules of Evidence for Certain Courts and Proceedings, , ; see also Legislative History on the Enactment of the FRE (with links to key documents).\n\nThe law was enacted only after Congress made a series of modifications to the proposed rules. Much of the debate on the Rules stemmed from concerns that came to lawmakers' attention due to the Watergate scandal, particularly questions of privilege. Some of the most prominent congressional amendments when Congress adopted the rules included:\n\n\nThe Advisory Committee Notes still function as an important source of material used by courts to interpret the Rules.\n\nEven though the Federal Rules of Evidence are statutory, the Supreme Court is empowered to amend the Rules, subject to congressional disapproval. However, amendments creating, abolishing, or modifying privileges require affirmative approval by Congress under .\n\nIn general, the purpose of rules of evidence is to regulate the evidence that the jury may use to reach a verdict. Historically, the rules of evidence reflected a marked distrust of jurors. The Federal Rules of Evidence strive to eliminate this distrust, and encourage admitting evidence in close cases. Even so, there are some rules that perpetuate the historical mistrust of jurors, expressly limiting the kind of evidence they may receive or the purpose for which they may consider it.\n\nAt the same time, the Rules center on a few basic ideasrelevance, unfair surprise, efficiency, reliability, and overall fairness of the adversary process. The Rules grant trial judges broad discretion to admit evidence in the face of competing arguments from the parties. This ensures that the jury has a broad spectrum of evidence before it, but not so much evidence that is repetitive, inflammatory, or unnecessarily confusing. The Rules define relevance broadly and relax the common-law prohibitions on witnesses' competence to testify. Hearsay standards are similarly relaxed, as are the standards for authenticating written documents. At the same time, the judge retains power to exclude evidence that has too great a danger for unfair prejudice to a party due to its inflammatory, repetitive, or confusing nature or its propensity to waste the court's time.\n\nThere are 67 individually numbered rules, divided among 11 articles:\n\n\nThe Rules embody some very common concepts, and lawyers frequently refer to those concepts by the rule number. The most important conceptthe balancing of relevance against other competing interestsis embodied in Rule 403.\n\nOne of the most common competing interests is the danger of unfair prejudice. An example of otherwise relevant testimony being barred for the danger of unfair prejudice is as follows: A person is on trial for committing a crime. The defendant's alibi is that he was at a meeting of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan during the time the crime was committed. The defendant has numerous witnesses who can place him at this meeting. The relevant part of this testimony is that the defendant was at a place other than the scene of the crime at the time the crime was committed. On cross examination it is generally relevant to delve into specifics about any alleged alibi such as who was there, what type of meeting it was etc. to ensure the defendant is being truthful. However the relevance of what type of meeting the defendant was attending to weighing the credibility of the story in this example is substantially outweighed by a danger of unfair prejudice as the majority of Americans would view the defendant's participation in the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan to be immoral and is therefore inadmissible.\n\nWhile the rules proscribe certain testimony from being admissible for one purpose, but it may be admissible for another. An example of this is Rule 404, specifically 404(b) as it pertains to specific instances of a person's conduct. While 404 generally prohibits use of prior acts and crimes to show that a defendant acted in accordance with those prior acts or crimes, 404(b) provides:\n\nEssentially testimony about an act a person has committed in the past is not admissible for the purposes of showing it is more likely that they committed the same act, however it could be admissible for another purpose, such as knowledge or lack of mistake. For example, in a DUI case, the prosecutor may not admit evidence of a prior instance of driving impaired to show that the defendant acted in conformity and drove impaired on the day he is charged with doing so. However such evidence may be admissible if the defense has argued the defendant had no knowledge driving impaired was a crime. Evidence of his prior arrest, conviction, or other circumstances surrounding his prior instance of impaired driving then becomes admissible to rebut the claim of \"mistake.\" The testimony is now being offered not for conformity but to demonstrate knowledge or lack of mistake.\n\nOther common-law concepts with previously amorphous limits have been more clearly delineated. This is especially true regarding hearsay evidence. Among scholars and in historical judicial decisions, four related definitions of \"hearsay\" emerged, and the various exceptions and exemptions flowed from the particular definition preferred by the scholar or court. The Federal Rules of Evidence settled on one of these four definitions and then fixed the various exceptions and exemptions in relation to the preferred definition of hearsay.\n\nOn the other hand, the law of privileges remains a creature of federal common law under the Rules, rather than the subject of judicial interpretation of the text of the rule. Just as the Uniform Rules of Evidence had, the advisory committee draft of the rules that the Supreme Court formally transmitted to Congress codified nine evidentiary privilegesrequired reports, attorney-client, psychotherapist-patient, husband-wife, communications to clergymen, political vote, trade secrets, official secrets, and identity of informer. When debate over the privileges included in the proposed Rules threatened to delay adoption of the Rules in their entirety, Congress replaced the proposed codified privileges with what became Rule 501.\nThe scope of the privileges under the Rules thus is the subject of federal common law, except in those situations where state law supplies the rule to be applied. Accordingly, the Supreme Court is ultimately responsible for determining which privileges exist. In the years since the adoption of the Rules, the Court has both expressly adopted a privilege, in \"Jaffee v. Redmond\", , and expressly declined to adopt a privilege, in \"University of Pennsylvania v. EEOC\", .\n\nWhen it comes to the FRE 106, under Adams, if a party seeks to enter into evidence additional parts of the writing or recording, the additional parts need not be \"admissible\" (i.e. comport with the other rules of evidence).\n\nOn December 1, 2011, the restyled Federal Rules of Evidence became effective.\n\nSince the early 2000s, an effort had been underway to \"restyle\" the Federal Rules of Evidence as well as other federal court rules (e.g. the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure). According to a statement by the advisory committee which had drafted the restyled rules, the restyling was not intended to make substantive changes to the evidentiary rules, and was instead intended to be purely stylistic. On April 26, 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court approved the restyled amendments to the Federal Rules of Evidence. Under the Rules Enabling Act, the restyled amendments took effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1638785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638785", "title": "Fire escape", "text": "Fire escape\n\nA fire escape is a special kind of emergency exit, usually mounted to the outside of a building or occasionally inside but separate from the main areas of the building. It provides a method of escape in the event of a fire or other emergency that makes the stairwells inside a building inaccessible. Fire escapes are most often found on multiple-story residential buildings, such as apartment buildings. At one time, they were a very important aspect of fire safety for all new construction in urban areas; more recently, however, they have fallen out of common use. This is due to the improved building codes incorporating fire detectors, technologically advanced fire fighting equipment, which includes better communications and the reach of fire fighting ladder trucks, and more importantly fire sprinklers. The international building codes and other authoritative agencies have incorporated fire sprinklers into multi-story buildings below 15 stories and not just skyscrapers.\n\nA fire escape consists of a number of horizontal platforms, one at each story of a building, with ladders or stairs connecting them. The platform and stairs are usually open steel gratings, to prevent the build-up of ice, snow, and leaves. Railings are usually provided on each of the levels, but as fire escapes are designed for emergency use only, these railings often do not need to meet the same standards as railings in other contexts. The ladder from the lowest level of the fire escape to the ground may be fixed, but more commonly it swings down on a hinge or slides down along a track. The moveable designs allow occupants to safely reach the ground in the event of a fire but prevent people from accessing the fire escape from the ground at other times (such as to perpetrate a burglary or vandalism).\n\nExit from the interior of a building to the fire escape may be provided by a fire exit door, but in most cases the only exit is through a window. When there is a door, it is often fitted with a fire alarm to prevent other uses of the fire escape, and to prevent unauthorized entry. As many fire escapes were built before the advent of electronic fire alarms, fire escapes in older buildings have often needed to be retrofitted with alarms for this purpose.\n\nAn alternate form of rapid-exit fire escape developed in the early 1900s was a long canvas tube suspended below a large funnel outside the window of a tall building. A person escaping the fire would slide down the interior of the tube, and could control the speed of descent by pushing outward on the tube walls with their arms and legs. This escape tube could be rapidly deployed from a window and hung down to street level, though it was large and bulky to store inside the building.\n\nA modern type of evacuation slide is the vertical spiral escape chute, which is a common means of evacuation for buildings and other structures.\n\nOne of the first fire escapes of any type was invented in 18th-century England. In 1784, Daniel Maseres, of England, invented a machine called a fire escape, which, being fastened to the window, would enable a person to descend to the street without injury. Abraham Wivell created an improved design, including an escape chute, after becoming superintendent of the \"Royal Society for the Protection of Life from Fire.\" Henry Vieregg patented the first US fire escape in Grand Island, NE in November 8, 1898 , serial number 681,672, which was designed for traveling businessmen.\n\nAs building codes became more common in countries around the turn of the 20th century, fire safety became an important concern for new construction. Building owners were increasingly required to provide adequate escape routes, and at the time, fire escapes seemed the best option available. Not only could they be included in new construction at a low cost, but they could be very easily added to existing construction. As building codes evolved and more safety concerns addressed over subsequent editions, all construction above a certain number of stories was required to have a second means of egress, and external fire escapes were allowed as a retrofit option for existing buildings prior to the post-World War II period.\n\nIn the 1930s the enclosed tubular chute type fire escape became widely accepted for schools, hospitals and other institution replaced the open iron ladder type. Its main advantage was people would have no reason to use it for another other than a fire escape and patients could be slid down it in a fire on their bedding.\n\nHowever, with the urban sprawl and increase in the amount of construction in the mid-20th century, particularly the increase in public housing in major cities in the United States and Europe in the 1950s and 1960s, certain problems with fire escapes became clear. In the poorer areas of cities like Chicago and New York, fire escapes were commonly used for everything but their intended purpose.\n\nIn the hot summer months, residents of mid-rise apartment buildings would sleep outside on the platforms of their fire escapes. Such a situation triggered the plot premise of Cornell Woolrich's 1947 short story, \"The Boy Cried Murder\", about a boy on a fire escape who one night witnesses a murder in a neighboring apartment; this story was filmed as the suspense thriller \"The Window\" (1949). The practice of sleeping on fire escapes can also be seen in Alfred Hitchcock's 1954 movie \"Rear Window\" (also based on a Woolrich short story), as well as Weegee's photography of the Lower East Side). Diagonal shadows of fire escapes made them a constant motif in film noir, and the balcony scene of \"Romeo and Juliet\" was transposed to a fire escape for the musical \"West Side Story\".\n\nThe installation of window air conditioners in individual apartment units with fire escape-facing windows, often installed against code or local ordinance by residents, which require the unit to be affixed to the window sash, also make a fire escape nearly useless in the summer months; the bulk and weight of an air conditioner unit shoved onto or over a fire escape in an emergency also creates additional danger for firefighters and evacuees.\n\n\"Boston Herald American\" photographer Stanley Forman won a 1976 Pulitzer Prize for the photograph \"Fire Escape Collapse\" capturing two girls plunging from a faulty fire escape during a 1975 Boston fire, and the controversial image resulted in tougher fire safety codes in some jurisdictions.\n\nAs buildings are built taller and taller, new fire escape ideas have been gaining popularity. Elevators, though traditionally not used as fire escapes, are now being thought of as a possible evacuation for high-rises and skyscrapers. Other alternate high-rise fire escape solutions include parachutes, external collapsible elevators, and slides.\n\nThe use of a fire escape is dictated by various local, state, and agreed upon international building codes, such as standards provided by the \"International Code Council\" (ICC), the \"International Building Code\" (IBC), or the \"International Energy Conservation Code\". Both the 2012 IBC and 2012 IRC require emergency escape and rescue openings for residential buildings of 4 floors or less, in sleeping rooms and basements with habitable space, for means of emergency egress. A fire escape can be a window, and if above the first floor with an approved ladder, or door that leads to a porch with ground access or a fire escape ladder. Federal rules, such as those of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), have requirements that follow ICC codes.\n\nThe fire escape is often regarded as one of the important symbols in the drama \"The Glass Menagerie\" by Tennessee Williams. Its name is said to be \"a touch of accidental poetic truth, for all of these huge buildings are always burning with the slow and implacable fires of human desperation\". At certain points in the drama, the fire-escape even accentuates the characteristics of the characters. Tom, the character most intertwined with the fire-escape, appears on it more often than others. In most of his appearances on the fire-escape, he is moving out of the apartment, a gesture showing his yearnings to venture into the outside world, escaping troubles at home.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29594224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29594224", "title": "Free File", "text": "Free File\n\nFree File is a service available through the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) which allows U.S. taxpayers to prepare and e-file their federal tax returns for free. Free File provides two options to tax payers: Free File Software (filed through brand-name software, adjusted gross income must be less than $66,000), or Free File Fillable Forms (any income level, filed through online fillable forms). Both the Free File Software and Free File Fillable Forms services are managed and operated by the Free File Alliance, a consortium of private tax-preparation companies. The service is available through the IRS's website at www.irs.gov/freefile. Although the service is accessed via the IRS website, the service is not managed or operated by the IRS. \n\nMore than 46 million people have used Free File since its debut in 2003. For 2016, IRS Free File will be available January 15 through October 15.\n\nIn November 2001, the U.S. Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) Quicksilver Task Force established 24 e-government initiatives that were a part of the President's Management Agenda. These initiatives were designed to improve Government to Government, Government to Business, and Government to Citizen electronic capabilities.\n\nOne initiative, IRS Free File, instructed the IRS to provide free and secure online tax return preparation and filing services to taxpayers. In accordance with this OMB directive, the IRS began working in partnership with the tax software industry to develop a solution. The result was the formation of the Free File Alliance, LLC, a group of tax software companies who provide free commercial online tax preparation and electronic filing services.\n\nThe Free File Alliance is a consortium of 13 commercial tax preparation software providers who offer their brand-name tax software products for free. Each member is allowed to set eligibility requirements for their software products. However, the cumulative offers must allow 70 percent of U.S. taxpayers - approximately 100 million people - to be eligible for at least one product. Each year, the income limit for eligibility is adjusted to reach 70 percent of the taxpayers. The income limit for 2016 is set at $62,000. Agreements between the IRS and the Free File Alliance are publicly available. The latest Memorandum of Understanding was signed in 2015 and runs through 2020.\n\nOne component of Free File is the Free File Software program, which allows lower-income tax payers to use name-brand tax preparation software to prepare and file tax forms for free.\n\nFor 2016, anyone whose adjusted gross income is $62,000 or less will be eligible for at least one software product. There are 13 products from which to choose. Each software provider sets its own eligibility requirements, generally related to income, state residency, age, military service or eligibility for the earned income tax credit. Free File is free for federal tax returns only. However, some Free File Alliance members offer state return software for a fee or for free. Most of the software products, but not all, use an interview format in which you are asked questions and your answers are used to populate the electronic form. This format helps taxpayers get the tax credits and deductions they are due. It also means taxpayers do not have to be experts in income tax law. Alliance members cannot sell any refund anticipation loan products through the Free File service. Alliance members are limited in the number of times they can offer to sell other products.\n\nTo use IRS Free File, taxpayers must go through the IRS website at www.irs.gov/freefile. There, taxpayers can find a tax software product one of two ways. They can review a list of companies and their offers. Or, they can use a simple web tool that asks a few questions - such as income, state residency and age - and the tool will locate those software products for which taxpayers are eligible. Once a taxpayer chooses a product, they will be directed off the IRS.gov site and onto the Alliance member's website to complete their federal tax return. All Alliance members use the latest in secure technology to protect taxpayer information and to transmit returns to the IRS.\n\n"}
{"id": "41212626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41212626", "title": "Free Speech For People", "text": "Free Speech For People\n\nFree Speech For People is a nonpartisan nonprofit organization founded in 2010 to advocate for a new constitutional amendment to limit campaign spending and to repeal the doctrine of corporate personhood. Free Speech For People has expanded its work since its founding and currently engages in efforts related to legal advocacy, corporate charter reform, and anti-corruption. In January 2017, Free Speech For People joined nonprofit RootsAction to launch the Impeach Donald Trump Now campaign to target corruption at the highest level of government. In August, 2018 the organization released the book: \"The Constitution Demands It: The Case For the Impeachment of Donald Trump,\" authored by Free Speech For People executive Director, John Bonifaz, Legal Director, Ron Fein, and Board Chair, Ben Clements. The organization also launched the Impeachment Project at this time, a project designed to encompass all of Free Speech For People's anti-corruption related efforts.\n\nFree Speech For People was founded by Massachusetts-based attorneys John Bonifaz and Jeffrey Clements in January, 2010 in response to the \"Citizens United v. FEC\" Supreme Court ruling. Citizens United v. FEC is a U.S. constitutional law case dealing with the regulation of campaign spending by corporations, and was extended to include labor unions and other associations. Free Speech For People supports a proposed 28th Constitutional amendment to overturn the Citizens United v. FEC ruling, that declares money does not equate to free speech, and corporations do not hold the rights of people.\n\nFree Speech for People supports the Democracy For All Amendment and the People's Rights Amendment. The Democracy For All Amendment refers to a Senate amendment bill (S.J. Res. 8, 115th Congress) introduced by Senator Tom Udall and an accompanying House amendment bill (H.J. Res. 31, 115th Congress). The Democracy For All Amendment seeks to allow Congress to set limits on campaign spending, as existed prior to Citizens United v. Fec. \n\nFree Speech For People also supports the People's Rights Amendment, which includes a Senate amendment bill (S.J. Res. 20, 15th Congress) [and an accompanying House amendment bill (H.J. Res. 88, 115th Congress). The People's Rights Amendment, proposed by House Representative Jim McGovern, seeks to clarify the distinction between the rights of corporations and natural persons.\n\nFree Speech For People also engages in legal advocacy, public education and organizing to challenge the influence of money in politics, unchecked corporate power, and presidential corruption and abuse of power. \n\nRecent legislative efforts include the drafting of a city ordinance, subsequently passed by the city of St. Petersburg, Florida, to abolish super PACs and ban foreign-influenced corporations from spending in local elections. The ordinance was the first of its kind, and was passed by the St. Petersburg city council after a 6-2 vote on October 5, 2017. The ordinance requires corporations that spend money in St. Petersburg elections to certify they are not foreign-influenced, or owned in whole or a significant part by foreign entities. The ordinance also establishes limits on contributions to political action committees, thereby abolishing super PACs in local elections. \n\nOther notable legislative efforts include the Massachusetts No Excuses for Corporate Discrimination Act (Bill H.767), drafted by Free Speech For People and intended to prevent business corporations from claiming religious exemptions from anti-discrimination law.\n\nSome of Free Speech For People's recent and notable litigation include the case Lieu v. Federal Election Commission. On November 4, 2016, Free Speech For People, on behalf of a bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress and 2016 congressional candidates, filed a lawsuit against the Federal Election Commission to abolish super PACs. The lawsuit, filed in federal district court in Washington, D.C., seeks the reversal of the 2010 federal appeals court ruling in SpeechNow.org v. FEC, which created super PACs.\n\nOther key cases have targeted state campaign contribution limits, such as Lair v. Motl, in which Free Speech For People filed an amicus brief to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, arguing that Montana's campaign contribution limits should be upheld to protect the constitutional promise of political equality for all. Other cases have focused on individual worker's rights, including Elster v. City of Seattle, an amicus brief filed in partnership with Demos, to defend the city against a constitutional challenge to Seattle's \"democracy voucher\" program, a nationally-recognized public campaign financing system enacted by voter initiative in 2015 and first used in the city's 2017 election. \n\nAfter a report from the Mine Safety and Health Administration found that \"if basic safety measures were in place there would have been no loss of life at the 2010 Upper Big Branch Mine disaster\" which claimed the lives of 29 coal miners, Free Speech For People led efforts with the Rainforest Alliance, Appalachian Voices, and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. to revoke the corporate charter of the Appalachian coal mining company Massey Energy.\n\nIn January 2017, Free Speech For People, joined by nonprofit RootsAction, launched the \"Impeach Donald Trump Now\" campaign. The campaign calls upon Congress to open impeachment investigations of Donald Trump. Their petition currently has over 1.4 million signers. \n\nThe nine grounds proposed are: obstruction of justice; violations of the Foreign Emoluments Clause and Domestic Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution; conspiring with others to: (a) commit crimes against the United States involving the solicitation and intended receipt by the Donald J. Trump campaign of things of value from a foreign government and other foreign nationals; and (b) conceal those violations; advocating illegal violence, giving aid and comfort to white supremacists and neo-Nazis, and undermining constitutional protections of equal protection under the law; abusing the pardon power; recklessly threatening nuclear war against foreign nations, undermining and subverting the essential diplomatic functions and authority of federal agencies, including the United States Department of State, and engaging in other conduct that grossly and wantonly endangers the peace and security of the United States, its people and people of other nations, by heightening the risk of hostilities involving weapons of mass destruction, with reckless disregard for the risk of death and grievous bodily harm; directing or endeavoring to direct law enforcement, including the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to investigate and prosecute political adversaries and others, for improper purposes not justified by any lawful function of his office, thereby eroding the rule of law, undermining the independence of law enforcement from politics, and compromising the constitutional right to due process of law; undermining the freedom of the press; and cruelly and unconstitutionally imprisoning children and their families. \n\nOn August 15, Free Speech For People released the book, \"The Constitution Demands It: The Case for the Impeachment of Donald Trump.\" The book was written by Free Speech For People Legal Director Ron Fein, Co-Founder and President John Bonifaz, and Chair of the Board of Directors Ben Clements, with a foreword by The Nation's national affairs correspondent John Nichols. \"The Constitution Demands It\" provides the case for impeachment of Donald Trump. \n\nOn July 10, 2018, Free Speech For People launched a new campaign called the Impeachment Project, encompassing key initiatives launched to challenge corruption. The Impeachment Project includes efforts to: launch impeachment proceedings; to press for an investigation into whether to dissolve the Trump Organization Inc.; to demand that the Federal Election Commission investigate potential coordination between the Russian government and the Trump Campaign: and to advance the Divest Trump Soho Campaign to victory. In December 2016, Free Speech For People, with Campaign for Accountability, filed a complaint before the Federal Election Commission demanding an immediate investigation into whether the Russian Government illegally spent money to influence the 2016 presidential election, in possible coordination with the Trump campaign. In May 2017, they filed an updated complaint before the FEC based on new evidence. The Impeachment Project also encompasses efforts related to Trump's business interests, including a call to the New York Attorney General to revoke the corporate charter of the Trump Organization, Inc. Free Speech For People also led a successful campaign in California and New York, in which it called on the California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS) and the New York State Comptroller to divest public pension funds from the Trump SoHo Hotel in New York City. After months of pressure, the private equity fund that owns Trump SoHo announced it will buy out the Trump Organization's contract to market and manage the troubled luxury condo/hotel, breaking a chain of illegal payments from state and local pension funds to the President. \n"}
{"id": "6611349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6611349", "title": "Georgetown Law Journal", "text": "Georgetown Law Journal\n\nThe Georgetown Law Journal is a student-edited scholarly journal published at Georgetown University Law Center. It is the flagship law review of the Georgetown University Law Center.\n\nThe \"Georgetown Law Journal\" is headquartered at Georgetown University Law Center in Washington, D.C. and has published more than 500 issues since its inception, as well as the widely used \"Annual Review of Criminal Procedure\" (ARCP), a comprehensive practitioner's guide to criminal procedure. The \"Journal\" is the only top law journal to consistently publish on time. , it is the 6th ranked law review . The \"Journal\" is currently, and always has been, run by law students.\n\nVolume 105 is currently in production.\n\nVolume 1, Issue 1 was published in November 1912, under the supervision of Editor-in-Chief Eugene Quay. At the time, an annual subscription to the new Journal cost one dollar. The first article was titled “The 125th Anniversary of the Drafting of the Constitution of the United States.” In a three-paragraph statement of purpose, the editors of the new Journal proclaimed:\n\nToday, the \"Journal\" employs approximately 100 second- and third-year law students—about 50 in their graduating year who serve in editorial positions and 50 in intermediate years who serve as staff. The staff collect and check sources, performing technical edits and checking for typographical errors. The upperclass students are tasked with administering the \"Journal\"‘s daily operations.\n\nIn order to gain journal membership, first-year students are permitted to participate in the Write On competition after completing their final exams in the spring semester. The competition is administered by the Georgetown Law Office of Journal Administration.\n\nStudents are offered positions on the \"Journal\" based on the following methods: \n\nThe Annual Review of Criminal Procedure (ARCP) is a comprehensive, topic-by-topic summary of federal criminal procedure. The goal of the ARCP—which is written, updated, and edited by members of The Georgetown Law Journal—is to provide readers with an objective, concise, and accurate overview of criminal procedure in the federal courts. The ARCP is currently in its 45th edition.\n\nThe ARCP serves as a practical aid to a diverse readership that includes prosecutors and defense attorneys, judges and their law clerks, and prisoners assisting in their own defense or appeal. Over eleven thousand copies are distributed annually. The ARCP is sold at a discount to prisoners.\n\nThe ARCP includes a preface, often written by a well-regarded legal practitioner, academic, or judge. The 2012 preface was written by United States Attorney General Eric Holder. The 2015 preface, written by Judge Alex Kozinski of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, critiqued many aspects of the criminal justice system. The United States Department of Justice published a letter responding to Judge Kozinski's Preface, and the dispute generated significant media coverage.\n\n"}
{"id": "853018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853018", "title": "German Historical School", "text": "German Historical School\n\nThe German Historical School of Jurisprudence is a 19th-century intellectual movement in the study of German law. With Romanticism as its background, it emphasized the historical limitations of the law. It stood in opposition to an earlier movement called \"Vernunftrecht\" (Rational Law).\n\nThe Historical School is based on the writings and teachings of Gustav von Hugo and especially Friedrich Carl von Savigny. Natural lawyers held that law could be discovered only by rational deduction from the nature of man.\n\nThe basic premise of the German Historical School is that law is not to be regarded as an arbitrary grouping of regulations laid down by some authority. Rather, those regulations are to be seen as the expression of the convictions of the people, in the same manner as language, customs and practices are expressions of the people. The law is grounded in a form of popular consciousness called the \"Volksgeist\".\n\nLaws can stem from regulations by the authorities, but more commonly they evolve in an organic manner over time without interference from the authorities. The ever-changing practical needs of the people play a very important role in this continual organic development.\n\nIn the development of a legal system, is it the professional duty of lawyers – in the sense of the division of labor in society – to base their academic work on law on ascertaining the will of the people. In this way, lawyers embody the popular will.\n\nThe German Historical School was divided into Romanists and the Germanists. The Romantists, to whom Savigny also belonged, held that the \"Volksgeist\" springs from the reception of the Roman law. While the Germanists (Karl Friedrich Eichhorn, Jakob Grimm, Georg Beseler, Otto von Gierke) saw medieval German Law as the expression of the German \"Volksgeist\".\n\nThe German Historical School has had considerable influence on the academic study of law in Germany. Georg Friedrich Puchta and Bernhard Windscheid continued the Romanist vein founded by Savigny, leading to the so-called \"Pandektenwissenschaft\" which is seen as \"Begriffsjurisprudenz\" (conceptual jurisprudence).\n\nKarl Marx devoted an 1842 essay \"The philosophical manifesto of the historical school of law\" to criticizing the historical school of law, calling it the \"sole frivolous product\" of the eighteenth century. \n\n"}
{"id": "20019773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20019773", "title": "History of the Malaysian Constitution", "text": "History of the Malaysian Constitution\n\nThe foundation of the Constitution of Malaysia was laid on 10 September 1877. It began with the first meeting of the Council of State in Perak, where the British first started to assert their influence in the Malay states. Under the terms of the Pangkor Engagement of 1874 between the Sultan of Perak and the British, the Sultan was obliged to accept a British Resident. Hugh Low, the second British Resident, convinced the Sultan to set up advisory Council of State, the forerunner of the state legislative assembly. Similar Councils were constituted in the other Malay states as and when they came under British protection.\n\nOriginally playing an advisory role, the function of the council was later extended to include both legislative and executive functions. This continued until 1948 when the Federation of Malaya was formed by two agreements, namely the State Agreement and the Federation of Malaya Agreement.\n\nThe State Agreement was of great significance to Malaysia's constitutional development. By virtue of this agreement, the Malay Rulers with the advice and concurrence of the traditional chiefs and elders of the states promulgated their respective State Constitutions except for Johor and Terengganu where Constitutions had already been in place since 1895 and 1911 respectively. The Rulers were also required to distinguish the legislative power in their respective states from the executive power, by constituting a legislative body, called the Council of State and State Executive Council whose advice he was required to obtained.\n\nThe Federation of Malaya Agreement that served as the core for the current federal system of central government was concluded as a compromise to the much-opposed Malayan Union. The Federation consisted of the Federated Malay States (FMS), the Unfederated Malay States and the Straits Settlements of Penang and Melaka. The FMS consisted of Perak, Selangor, Pahang and Negeri Sembilan while the non-FMS were Kedah, Perlis, Kelantan, Terengganu and Johor.\n\nThe federal government comprised the High Commissioner, an Executive Council and Legislative Council. The agreement also provided for a Conference of Rulers with its own elected chairman. Each of the states had its own Executive Council and Council of States to deal with all matters not specifically reserved to the Federation. The Federal Government was responsible for defence, the police, and the railways, labour, broadcasting, post and finance. This 1948 Constitution remained in force with some essential amendments, until 1957 when the Federation of Malaya gained its independence.\n\nA constitutional conference was held in London from 18 January to 6 February 1956 when the British promised Independence and self-government to the Federation of Malaya. It was attended by a delegation from the Federation of Malaya, consisting of four representatives of the Malay Rulers, the Chief Minister of the Federation (Tunku Abdul Rahman) and three other ministers, and also by the British High Commissioner in Malaya and his advisers.\n\nThe conference proposed the appointment of a commission to devise a constitution for a fully self-governing and independent Federation of Malaya. This proposal was accepted by Queen Elizabeth II and the Malay Rulers. Accordingly, pursuant to such agreement, the Reid Commission, consisting of constitutional experts from fellow Commonwealth countries and headed by Lord William Reid, a distinguished Lord-of-Appeal-in-Ordinary, was appointed to make recommendations for a suitable constitution. The report of the Commission was completed on 11 February 1957. The report was then examined by a working party appointed by the British Government, the Conference of Rulers and the Government of the Federation of Malaya and the Federal Constitution was enacted on the basis of its recommendations.\n\nThe Constitution came into force on 27 August 1957 but formal independence was only achieved on 31 August however. The constitutional machinery devised to bring the new constitution into force consisted of:\n\n\nThe Federal Constitution was significantly amended when Sabah, Sarawak, and Singapore joined the Federation to form Malaysia in 1963.\n"}
{"id": "36958784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36958784", "title": "Incredible utility", "text": "Incredible utility\n\nIn United States patent law, incredible utility is a concept according to which, in order for an invention to be patentable, it must have some credible useful function. If it does not have a credible useful function despite the assertions of the inventor, then the application for patent can be rejected as having \"incredible utility\". The invention does not have to work the way the inventor thinks it works, but it must do something useful. Patents that have been held invalid for incredible utility include:\nA rejection based on incredible utility can be overcome by providing evidence that, \"if, considered as a whole, [...] leads a person of ordinary skill in the art to conclude that the asserted utility is more likely than not true\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39134451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39134451", "title": "International Commission on Orders of Chivalry", "text": "International Commission on Orders of Chivalry\n\nThe International Commission for Orders of Chivalry (ICOC; Italian: \"Commissione internazionale permanente per lo studio degli ordini cavallereschi\") is a privately run, privately funded organisation composed of scholars on chivalric matters and systems of awards. Founded in 1960, its stated purpose is to examine orders of chivalry to determine their legitimacy. Its President since 1999 is Dr. Pier Felice degli Uberti, and its seat is situated in Milano, Italy.\n\nDuring the Congress of Madrid (1955), Vicente de Cadenas y Vicent thought that it was appropriate to create a commission of scholars on chivalric matters. This idea was instituted during the 5th International Congress of Genealogical and Heraldic Sciences in Stockholm, Sweden, under the protection of Swedish Prince Bertil, Duke of Halland (with State Herald of Sweden Gunnar Scheffer as General Secretary), by decision of the Commission for State Heraldry chaired by Alessandro Monti della Corte with the purpose of creating a provisional list of orders whose approval had to be submitted to the next Congress.\n\nInitially, notably in 1964-1999, the organisation was embroiled in several controversies caused by the different cultural training of its commissioners. The root of some of these controversies stems from the unavoidable bias inherent in the ICOC's governing structure as a private, non-governmental organization.\n\nSince its foundation, it has had a number of Patrons, with honorary function without the right to vote, notably including Archduke Otto von Habsburg, Cardinal Pio Laghi, Patron Cardinal of Sovereign Military Order of Malta, Cardinal Giuseppe Caprio, Grand Master emeritus of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre, and Maria Vladimirovna, Grand Duchess of Russia, among others.\n\nIn order to avoid any conflict of interest, the commissioners who hold important offices in a particular order of chivalry cannot participate in the decision regarding that order. The ICOC's most recent Register and \"Provisional List of Orders\" was published in 2016.\n\nThe International Commission for Orders of Chivalry (ICOC) was founded at the fifth International Congress of Genealogical and Heraldic Sciences in Stockholm, Sweden, under the protection of Swedish Prince Bertil, Duke of Halland, with State Herald of Sweden Gunnar Scheffer as General Secretary. The International Congress of Genealogical and Heraldic Sciences is a biennial convention for genealogists, heraldic scholars and others working in related fields. The Congress that year was under the leadership of the Swedish Baron Hamilton of Hageby.\n\nThe reason for its foundation is explained in a report of the \"Commission for State Heraldry\" - composed of: Baron Alessandro Monti della Corte, President, who was also the Chancellor of the Order of Saints Maurice and Lazarus; Hungarian author Noble Professor Gèza Grosschmid Zsögöd de Visegrad, Vice President; \nRoger Harmignies, Rapporteur; and by its Members: Portcullis Pursuivant John Brooke-Little; Lt. Col. Robert Gayre, a Scottish anthropologist and author who had an interest in heraldry; Robert Matagne; genealogist and officer of arms Sir Iain Moncreiffe of that Ilk, Bt., Baron of Easter Moncreiffe; Elisabeth Prins;\nOfficer of Arms Conrad Swan and Paul Warming - concerning point 4, \"the decisions of the III Congress at Madrid (1955)\"\n\"were recalled relative to the juridical and historical conditions which had to apply to independent, both Dynastic and Family, Orders of Chivalry and it was recommended to prepare a list, albeit provisional, of the said Orders so that they might be studied and then approved at the following congress.\".\n\nThe purpose of the ICOC was originally to determine the legitimacy of orders of chivalry as, since the late 19th century, a number of purported orders had been operating, bestowing (and often selling) chivalric and noble titles. It was believed that an organisation like the ICOC, while not possessing any actual powers of enforcement, could research the relative legitimacy of claimed orders and provide the public with objective information about the orders to enable them to choose legitimate ones.\n\nThe first Register (1964) was published with the agreement of all the commissioners, but a second one was published without their authorization by Robert Gayre, who included the Order of Saint Lazarus (statuted 1910) in the list, and many of the other members of the board of directors resigned in protest. Gayre replaced them with members of the Order of Saint Lazarus, and those sympathetic to their goal to be recognized as a legitimate chivalric order.\n\nDuring the period 1964-98, there were meetings held in 1964 (The Hague), 1966 (Paris), 1967 (Brussels), 1970 (Vienna and Munich), 1984 (Washington); later and until 1996, there were only private meetings between commissioners in the house of Robert Gayre.\n\nIn 1970, the ICOC decided also to approve the \"Order of Saint John of Jerusalem, Knights Hospitaller (or \"Royal Yugoslavian Order of Saint John\"), a move that further alienated the ICOC from the company of respectable scholarship and increasingly cast suspicion on their own validity.\n\nBy 1996, the last year of Robert Gayre's presidency, the Vice-President of the ICOC was Terence Francis MacCarthy. On 28 January 1992, the Irish Genealogical Office conferred courtesy Chief of the Name recognition to Terence MacCarthy as the MacCarthy Mór, the title of the chief of the MacCarthy sept or clan. This recognition by the prestigious Irish Genealogical Office allowed him to gain credibility in nobiliary circles in the world, so it was easy for him to be the founder of the self-styled Irish chivalric Order the Niadh Nask, and to fraudulently claim to be \"Prince of Desmond\" the MacCarthy Mòr. \nRobert Gayre himself had assumed the fantasy title of \"Baron of Lochoreshire\", and claimed to be the chief of the Clan Gayre, which he had earlier invented. \nHowever, the Lord Lyon King of Arms recognized Robert Gayre as Gayre of Gayre and Nigg, Chief of the Name and Arms of Gayre, and Baron of Lochoreshire, as published in Burke's Peerage, Baronetage and Knightage. \nGayre served as MacCarthy's \"Constable\" in the Niadh Nask. The other eight members of the board of the ICOC in 1996 included Patrick O'Kelly, who claimed to be \"Baron O'Kelly de Conejera\", and six other members of the Niadh Nask.\n\nSince the Niadh Nask was heretofore unknown within the world of chivalric orders, Robert Gayre and the ICOC expanded the original focus of the group to include a new category, called \"Dynastic Nobiliary Fraternities\". Hundreds of people, taken in by these claims, joined the Niadh Nask or donated to their \"cause\", totaling about $1 million. Among those convinced by the hoax were former Irish Prime Ministers Charles Haughey, Albert Reynolds, and John Brooke-Little. After Gayre's death in 1996, Terence Francis MacCarthy assumed the position of President and continued using the ICOC as a vehicle to advance his fraudulent nobiliary claims. In July 1999, the falsity of Terence Francis MacCarthy's claims was discovered and reported in the media, and he resigned from the ICOC.\n\nDuring this period, these Registers were published: 1964 (2nd edition), without the permission of the president Baron Alessandro Monti della Corte, the event that caused his resignation; 1970; 1978, issued under the presidency of H.S.H. Prince Ernst August of Lippe; 1996, issued under the presidency of Robert Gayre; and 1998, issued under the presidency of Terence Francis MacCarthy.\n\nSince 1999, the President of the ICOC has been Dr. Pier Felice degli Uberti, who immediately decided to admit the errors of the past, although these happened without his own fault:\n\nIn 1999, the ICOC also decided to remove the Order of Saint Lazarus (statuted 1910) from the Register's list of legitimate orders of chivalry.\n\nThe purpose was to return to the initial mission of the ICOC commission born in the congresses and the only one which was authorized by Paul Adam, president of AIH, to continue its complex work also at the end of the Congress (1962) remaining as a Permanent Commission. Pier Felice degli Uberti's first act was to ask all the commissioners their curriculum vitae, removing those whose academic standing was not sufficient to the position of commissioner; abolished all the precedent Registers bringing into force the first edition of 1964 Register and deleting the questionable orders in time inserted.\nThe previous board membership was replaced largely by individuals of greater credibility in the heraldry and chivalric orders community, such as author and nobiliary expert Guy Stair Sainty, genealogical and heraldic expert as Roger Harmignies, Cecil Humphery-Smith, Michel Popoff, Henrik Klackenberg, Elizabeth Roads, Hervé Pinoteau, Peter Kurrild-Klitgaard, Robert Watt, President of International Academy of Heraldry - AIH, Michel Teillard d'Eyry, President of International Academy of Genealogy - AIG as well as historian of the crusades Jonathan Riley-Smith.\n\nStarting from 2002, the ICOC began to hold its General Assemblies within the international colloquia of the International Academies of Heraldry - AIH and Genealogy - AIG and, from 2010, within the International Congresses of Heraldic and Genealogical Sciences (as was the case when the Commission was founded).\n\nAs suggested by the Executive Committee, the International Commission for Orders of Chivalry Prize was founded within the Prizes and Awards Commission of the Confédération Internationale de Généalogie et d’Héraldique, to be conferred on a publication about chivalry and awards, starting from the XXVIII International Congress of Genealogical and Heraldic Sciences of Quebec City (2008). \n\nIn 2015, the ICOC decided to consider as Knightly Orders to be included in the Register only those historical, while the other classifications should be deemed as appendices in order to inform of their existence, but without going about their evaluation. In addition all the new creations, currently being made by Heads of once ruling Houses, should be simply considered as awarding systems without chivalric content.\n\nIn 1964, the ICOC expanded their original focus by adding a new category which they called \"Noble Corporations\". They expanded further in 1984 with \"Other Noble Corporations\", in 1998 with \"Ecclesiastical Decorations\", in 2000 with \"Bodies of a Chivalric Character\" and \"Bodies inspired by chivalry\", in 2001 with \"Bodies which referred to Orders or awards which had been awarded by state bodies in the past\" and again in 2002 with \"Revivals of ancient chivalric institutions founded as Orders by the dynastic successor of the founding authority; New chivalric institutions founded by the head of a former reigning dynasty; Successors of chivalric institutions founded under the authority of a state\".\n\nThe ICOC's most recent Register and \"Provisional List of Orders\" was published in 2016.\n\nNotable patrons have included:\n\n\n\nThe Commissioners today are:\n\n\nThe Consultor today are:\n\n"}
{"id": "33473095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33473095", "title": "John Tasioulas", "text": "John Tasioulas\n\nJohn Tasioulas (born 18 December 1964) is a Greek-Australian moral and legal philosopher. He is the inaugural Yeoh Professor of Politics, Philosophy and Law at The Dickson Poon School of Law, King's College London and Director of the Yeoh Tiong Lay Centre for Politics, Philosophy, and Law. He holds dual Australian and British citizenship.\n\nJohn Tasioulas was born in Wollongong, New South Wales, in 1964. His parents migrated to Australia from Dasyllio in the Grevena region of Greece. He was a student at Northcote High School and Melbourne High School. He completed undergraduate degrees in Philosophy and Law at the University of Melbourne and was the 1989 Rhodes Scholar for Victoria. Studying at Balliol College, he received a doctorate (D.Phil in Philosophy) from Oxford University for a thesis on moral relativism which was supervised by Joseph Raz. Tasioulas was a Lecturer in Jurisprudence at the University of Glasgow (1992–1998), Reader in Moral and Legal Philosophy at the University of Oxford where he was a Tutorial Fellow in Philosophy at Corpus Christi College (1998–2010), and Quain Professor of Jurisprudence in the Faculty of Laws, University College London (2011–2014). He is an Honorary Professorial Fellow at Melbourne Law School, an Emeritus Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Oxford, a Distinguished Research Fellow of the Oxford Uehiro Centre for Practical Ethics, and a member of the Academia Europaea. He has been a Fellow at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University and a Visiting Professor of Law at the University of Chicago Law School. He delivered the 'Or 'Emet Lecture at Osgoode Hall Law School (2011), the Natural Law Lecture at Notre Dame Law School (2012), and the Van Hasselt Lecture at Delft University of Technology (2016). \n\nTasioulas works in moral, legal and political philosophy. He has advanced a version of the communicative theory of punishment, according to which the overarching point of punishment is the communication of censure to wrong-doers. His version of the theory is distinctive in making room for the value of mercy alongside that of retributive justice. \n\nIn the philosophy of human rights, Tasioulas has argued for an orthodox understanding of such rights, according to which they are moral rights possessed by all human beings simply in virtue of their humanity. This contrasts with a more recent view that characterizes human rights in terms of some political role(s), such as being triggers for international intervention or benchmarks of internal legitimacy. According to Tasioulas, human rights have a foundation both in a plurality of human interests and in equal human dignity. \n\nHe has written on a range of other topics including moral relativism, the ethics of biomedicine, and the philosophy of international law. His co-edited volume, \"The Philosophy of International Law\" (OUP, 2010), is a central text in the field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11473587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11473587", "title": "Legality of the Iraq War", "text": "Legality of the Iraq War\n\nThe legality of the invasion and occupation of Iraq has been widely debated since the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Poland and a coalition of other countries launched the 2003 invasion of Iraq. \nThe then United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan stated in September 2004 that: \"I have indicated it was not in conformity with the UN charter. From our point of view and the UN Charter point of view, it [the war] was illegal\", explicitly declaring that the US-led war on Iraq was illegal.\n\nPolitical leaders of the US and UK have claimed that the war was legal; however, legal experts, including John Chilcot, who, acting as chairman for the British public inquiry into Iraq, also known as the Iraq Inquiry, led an investigation with hearings from 24 November 2009 to 2 February 2011, concluded that the process of identifying the legal basis for the invasion of Iraq was unsatisfactory and that the actions of the US and the UK have undermined the authority of the United Nations.\nInternational leaders such as Russian President Vladimir Putin and Deputy Prime Minister to Tony Blair John Prescott, have also argued that the invasion of Iraq lacked legality as examples. In a 2005 paper, Kramer & Michalowski argued that the war \"violated the UN Charter and international humanitarian law\".\n\"The use of force abroad, according to existing international laws, can only be sanctioned by the United Nations. This is the international law. Everything that is done without the UN Security Council's sanction cannot be recognised as fair or justified\" - Quote, Russian President Vladimir Putin, Televised conference before James bakers meeting. 19/12/20-3\n\nUS and UK officials have argued that existing UN Security Council resolutions related to the 1991 Gulf War and the subsequent ceasefire (660, 678), and to later inspections of Iraqi weapons programs (1441), had already authorized the invasion. Critics of the invasion have challenged both of these assertions, arguing that an additional Security Council resolution, which the US and UK failed to obtain, would have been necessary to specifically authorize the invasion.\n\nThe UN Security Council, as outlined in Article 39 of the UN Charter, has the ability to rule on the legality of the war, but has yet not been asked by any UN member nation to do so. The United States and the United Kingdom have veto power in the Security Council, so action by the Security Council is highly improbable even if the issue were to be raised. Despite this, the UN General Assembly (UNGA) may ask that the International Court of Justice (ICJ)—\"the principal judicial organ of the United Nations\" (Article 92)—give either an 'advisory opinion' or 'judgement' on the legality of the war. Indeed, the UNGA asked the ICJ to give an 'advisory opinion' on \"the legal consequences arising from the construction of the wall being built by Israel\", by its resolution A/RES/ES-10/14, as recently as 12 December 2003; despite opposition from permanent members of the Security Council. It achieved this by sitting in tenth 'emergency special session', under the framework of the 'Uniting for Peace' resolution.\n\nThe International Court of Justice, sometimes known as the \"World Court\" is the principal judicial organ of the United Nations. The General Assembly or the Security Council may request that the International Court of Justice provide an advisory opinion on any legal question. Any organ or agency of the UN so authorized by the General Assembly may also request the ICJ for an advisory opinion.\n\nThe United Nations Charter is the foundation of modern international law. The UN Charter is a treaty ratified by the US and its principal coalition allies in the 2003 invasion of Iraq, which are therefore legally bound by its terms. Article 2(4) of the UN Charter generally bans the use of force by states except when carefully circumscribed conditions are met, stating:\n\nAll members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations.\n\nThis rule was \"enshrined in the United Nations Charter in 1945 for a good reason: to prevent states from using force as they felt so inclined\", said Louise Doswald-Beck, Secretary-General International Commission of Jurists.\n\nTherefore, in the absence of an armed attack against the US or the coalition members, any legal use of force, or any legal threat of the use of force, had to be supported by a UN security Council resolution authorizing member states to use force against Iraq. However, the US government stated that an armed attack by Iraq did occur against the US and its coalition partners as demonstrated by the assassination attempt on former US President George H. W. Bush in 1993 and firing on coalition aircraft enforcing the no-fly zones over Northern and Southern Iraq since the 1991 Gulf War ceasefire agreement. Under Article 51 of the UN Charter, the US reserved the right to self-defense, even without a UN mandate, as were the cases in the bombing of Iraq in June 1993 in retaliation for Hussein's attempt on former President Bush's life and again in 1996 in retaliation for Hussein's targeting of American aircraft patrolling the no-fly zones over Northern and Southern Iraq and the launching of a major offensive against the city of Irbil in Iraqi Kurdistan in violation of UNSC Resolution 688 prohibiting repression of Iraq's ethnic minorities.\n\nThe U.S. and UK governments, along with others, also stated (as is detailed in the first four paragraphs of the joint resolution) that the invasion was entirely legal because it was already authorized by existing United Nations Security Council resolutions and a resumption of previously temporarily suspended hostilities, and not a war of aggression as the United States and UK were acting as agents for the defense of Kuwait in response to Iraq's 1990 invasion. Some International legal experts, including the International Commission of Jurists, the U.S.-based National Lawyers' Guild, a group of 31 Canadian law professors, and the U.S.-based Lawyers' Committee on Nuclear Policy have found this legal rationale to be untenable, and are of the view that the invasion was not supported by UN resolution and was therefore illegal.\n\nUNSC Resolution 1441 was passed unanimously on November 8, 2002, to give Iraq \"a final opportunity to comply with its disarmament obligations\" that had been set out in several previous resolutions (resolution 660, resolution 661, resolution 678, resolution 686, resolution 687, resolution 688, resolution 707, resolution 715, resolution 986, and resolution 1284).\n\nThe resolution strengthened the mandate of the UN Monitoring and Verification Commission (UNMOVIC) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), giving them authority to go anywhere, at any time and talk to anyone in order to verify Iraq's disarmament.\"\n\nThe most important text of Resolution 1441 was to require that Iraq \"shall provide UNMOVIC and the IAEA immediate, unimpeded, unconditional, and unrestricted access to any and all, including underground, areas, facilities, buildings, equipment, records, and means of transport which they wish to inspect\". However, on January 27, 2003, Hans Blix, the lead member of the UNMOVIC, said that, \"Iraq appears not to have come to a genuine acceptance, not even today, of the disarmament that was demanded of it\". Blix noted that Iraq had failed cooperation in a number of areas, including the failure to provide safety to U-2 spy planes that inspectors hoped to use for aerial surveillance, refusal to let UN inspectors into several chemical, biological, and missile sites on the belief that they were engaging in espionage rather than disarmament, submitting 12,000-page arms declaration that it handed over in December 2002 which contained little more than old material previously submitted to inspectors, and failure to produce convincing evidence to the UN inspectors that it had unilaterally destroyed its anthrax stockpiles as required by resolution 687 a decade before 1441 was passed in 2002. On March 7, 2003, Blix said that Iraq had made significant progress toward resolving open issues of disarmament but the cooperation was still not \"immediate\" and \"unconditional\" as called for by UN Security Council Resolution 1441. He concluded that it would take \"but months\" to resolve the key remaining disarmament tasks. The US government observed this as a breach of resolution 1441 because Iraq did not meet the requirement of an \"immediate\" and \"unconditional\" compliance.\n\nOn the day Resolution 1441 was passed, the US ambassador to the UN, John Negroponte, assured the Security Council that there were no \"hidden triggers\" with respect to the use of force, and that in the event of a \"further breach\" by Iraq, resolution 1441 would require that \"the matter will return to the Council for discussions as required in paragraph 12.\" However, he then added: \"If the Security Council fails to act decisively in the event of further Iraqi violations, this resolution does not constrain any Member State from acting to defend itself against the threat posed by Iraq or to enforce relevant United Nations resolutions and protect world peace and security.\"\n\nAt the same meeting, UK Permanent Representative Sir Jeremy Greenstock KCMG used many of the same words. \"If there is a further Iraqi breach of its disarmament obligations, the matter will return to the Council for discussion as required in Operational Paragraph 12.\"\n\nOn March 17, 2003, the Attorney General for England and Wales Lord Goldsmith agreed that the use of force against Iraq was justified by resolution 1441, in combination with the earlier resolutions 678 and 687.\n\nAccording to an independent commission of inquiry set up by the government of the Netherlands, UN resolution 1441 \"cannot reasonably be interpreted as authorising individual member states to use military force to compel Iraq to comply with the Security Council's resolutions.\"\n\nAs part of the 1991 Gulf War ceasefire agreement, the Iraqi government agreed to UN Security Council Resolution 687, which called for weapons inspectors to search locations in Iraq for chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons, as well as weapons that exceed an effective distance of 150 kilometres. After the passing of resolution 687, thirteen additional resolutions (699, 707, 715, 949, 1051, 1060, 1115, 1134, 1137, 1154, 1194, 1205, 1284) were passed by the Security Council reaffirming the continuation of inspections, or citing Iraq's failure to comply fully with them. On September 9, 1998, the Security Council passed Resolution 1194, which unanimously condemns Iraq's suspension of cooperation with UNSCOM. One month later, on October 31, Iraq officially declares it will cease all forms of interaction with UNSCOM.\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 678 (1990) authorizes the use of all necessary means to enforce United Nations Security Council Resolution 660 (1990) and subsequent relevant resolutions and to compel Iraq to cease certain activities that threaten international peace and security, including the development of weapons of mass destruction and refusal or obstruction of United Nations weapons inspections in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 687 (1991), repression of its civilian population in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 688 (1991), and threatening its neighbors or United Nations operations in Iraq in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 949 (1994).\n\nThe commission of inquiry of the government of the Netherlands found that the UN resolution of the 1990s provided no authority for the invasion.\n\nThe legal right to determine how to enforce its own resolutions lies with the Security Council alone (UN Charter Articles 39-42), not with individual nations. On 8 November 2002, immediately after the adoption of Security Council resolution 1441, Russia, the People's Republic of China, and France issued a joint statement declaring that Council Resolution 1441 did not authorize any \"automaticity\" in the use of force against Iraq, and that a further Council resolution was needed were forced to be used. Critics have also pointed out that the statements of US officials leading up to the war indicated their belief that a new Security Council resolution was required to make an invasion legal, but the UN Security Council has not made such a determination, despite serious debate over this issue. To secure Syria's vote in favor of Council Resolution 1441, Secretary of State Powell reportedly advised Syrian officials that \"there is nothing in the resolution to allow it to be used as a pretext to launch a war on Iraq.\"\n\nThe United States structured its reports to the United Nations Security Council around intelligence from the Central Intelligence Agency and Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) stating that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction. The US claimed that justification for the war rested upon Iraq's violation of several UN resolutions, most recently UN Security Council Resolution 1441.\n\nAccording to a detailed legal investigation conducted by an independent commission of inquiry set up by the government of the Netherlands headed by former Netherlands Supreme Court president Willibrord Davids, the 2003 invasion violated international law. Also, the commission concluded that the notion of \"regime change\" as practiced by the powers that invaded Iraq had \"no basis in international law.\" Also, the commission found that UN resolution 1441 \"cannot reasonably be interpreted as authorising individual member states to use military force to compel Iraq to comply with the Security Council's resolutions.\". In a letter to the parliament, the Dutch cabinet admitted that MPs could have been better informed about the doubts and uncertainties of the Dutch intelligence services and about the United States' request for Dutch support.\n\nThe Davids inquiry also investigated the rumours that the appointment of former Dutch foreign minister De Hoop Scheffer as NATO secretary general was the result of his support for the US-led invasion of Iraq, but was unable to find any proof. In February 2010 De Hoop Scheffer himself criticised the Davids Commission report. In an interview with newspaper de Volkskrant he argued that the cabinet did fully inform parliament and that there had never been any doubts. He rejected the conclusion that it took less than 45 minutes to decide to give political support to the United States. He also contested the conclusion that Prime Minister Balkenende failed to provide adequate leadership. In addition, he argued that no United Nations mandate was needed for the invasion of Iraq and remarked that there was no UN mandate when the Netherlands supported the 1991 US operations in Iraq.\n\nThen UK Foreign Secretary Jack Straw sent a secret letter to Prime Minister Tony Blair in April 2002 warning Blair that the case for military action against Iraq was of \"dubious legality\". The letter goes on to state that \"regime change per se is no justification for military action\" and that \"the weight of legal advice here is that a fresh [UN] mandate may well be required.\" Such a new UN mandate was never given. The letter also expresses doubts regarding the outcome of military action.\n\nIn March 2003, Elizabeth Wilmshurst, then deputy legal adviser to the British Foreign Office, resigned in protest of Britain's decision to invade without Security Council authorization. Wilmshurst also insinuated that the English Attorney General Lord Goldsmith also believed the war was illegal, but changed his opinion several weeks before the invasion.\n\nIn 2010, the deputy prime minister Nick Clegg, during prime minister's questions in Parliament, asserted that the Iraq war was illegal. Statements issued later suggested that this was a personal view and not a formal view of the coalition government.\n\nIn 2016, the deputy prime minister at the time of the invasion, John Prescott, wrote: \"In 2004, the UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan said that as regime change was the prime aim of the Iraq War, it was illegal. With great sadness and anger, I now believe him to be right.\"\n\nThe International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg held following World War II that the waging of a war of aggression is:\n\nBenjamin B. Ferencz was one of the chief prosecutors for the United States at the military trials of German officials following World War II, and a former law professor. In an interview given on August 25, 2006, Ferencz stated that not only Saddam Hussein should be tried, but also George W. Bush because the Iraq War had been begun by the U.S. without permission by the UN Security Council. Benjamin B. Ferencz wrote the foreword for Michael Haas's book, \"George W. Bush, War Criminal?: The Bush Administration's Liability for 269 War Crimes\". Ferencz elaborated as follows:\n\nProfessor Ferencz quoted the British deputy legal adviser to the Foreign Ministry who resigned suddenly before the Iraq war started, stating in her resignation letter: \n\nThe invasion of Iraq was neither in self-defense against armed attack nor sanctioned by UN Security Council resolution authorizing the use of force by member states and thus constituted the crime of war of aggression, according to the International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) in Geneva. A \"war waged without a clear mandate from the United Nations Security Council would constitute a flagrant violation of the prohibition of the use of force\". We note with \"deep dismay that a small number of states are poised to launch an outright illegal invasion of Iraq, which amounts to a war of aggression\".\n\nThen Iraq Ambassador to the United Nations Mohammed Aldouri shared the view that the invasion was a violation of international law and constituted a war of aggression, as did a number of American legal experts, including Marjorie Cohn, Professor at Thomas Jefferson School of Law and president of the National Lawyers Guild and former Attorney-General of the United States Ramsey Clark.\n\nWith the support of large bipartisan majorities, the U.S. Congress passed the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002. The resolution asserts the authorization by the Constitution of the United States and the United States Congress for the President to fight anti-United States terrorism. Citing the Iraq Liberation Act of 1998, the resolution reiterated that it should be the policy of the United States to remove the Saddam Hussein regime and promote a democratic replacement. The resolution \"supported\" and \"encouraged\" diplomatic efforts by President George W. Bush to \"strictly enforce through the U.N. Security Council all relevant Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq\" and \"obtain prompt and decisive action by the Security Council to ensure that Iraq abandons its strategy of delay, evasion, and noncompliance and promptly and strictly complies with all relevant Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq\". The resolution authorized President Bush to use the Armed Forces of the United States \"as he determines to be necessary and appropriate\" in order to \"defend the national security of the United States against the continuing threat posed by Iraq; and enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council Resolutions regarding Iraq\".\n\nBefore the invasion, the then Attorney General for England and Wales Lord Goldsmith, advised that the war would be in breach of international law for six reasons, ranging from the lack of a second United Nations resolution to UN inspector Hans Blix's continuing search for weapons. Ten days later on 7 March 2003, as UK troops were massing in Kuwait, Lord Goldsmith changed his mind, saying:\n\nI remain of the opinion that the safest legal course would be to secure the adoption of a further resolution to authorise the use of force... Nevertheless, having regard to the information on the negotiating history which I have been given and to the arguments of the US Administration which I heard in Washington, I accept that a reasonable case can be made that resolution 1441 is capable in principle of reviving the authorisation in 678 without a further resolution.\n\nHe concluded his revised analysis by saying that \"regime change cannot be the objective of military action.\"\n\nOn 1 May 2005, a related UK document known as the Downing Street memo, detailing the minutes of a meeting on 26 July 2002, was apparently leaked to \"The Sunday Times\". The memo recorded the head of the Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) as expressing the view following his recent visit to Washington that \"Bush wanted to remove Saddam, through military action, justified by the conjunction of terrorism and WMD. But the intelligence and facts were being fixed around the policy.\" It also quoted Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (Foreign Secretary) Jack Straw as saying that it was clear that Bush had \"made up his mind\" to take military action but that \"the case was thin\", and the Attorney-General Goldsmith as warning that justifying the invasion on legal grounds would be difficult.\n\nBritish officials did not dispute the document's authenticity but did dispute that it accurately stated the situation. The Downing Street memo is relevant to the question of the legality of the 2003 invasion of Iraq because it discusses some legal theories that were considered prior to the invasion.\n\nThe minutes of the cabinet meetings where the legality of the Iraq war was discussed was subjected to a Freedom of Information request in 2007. The request was refused. On 19 February 2008 the Information Commissioner ordered the minutes to be disclosed in the public interest but the government appealed to the Information Tribunal. When the Tribunal upheld the order for disclosure in early 2009 Jack Straw (then Justice Minister) issued the first ever ministerial veto (Section 53 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000) and prevented the release of the minutes. On 6 July 2016, extracts from the minutes were disclosed by the Iraq Inquiry.\n\nThe German Federal Administrative Court on 21 June 2005 found in regard to the Iraq War that it had \"grave concerns in terms of public international law.\" The Court did not make it clear that, in its opinion, the war and the contributions to it by the German Federal Government were outright illegal.\n\nIn this minor criminal case the court decided not to convict a Major in the German Army of the crime of refusing duty that would advance the Iraq war. Nikolaus Schultz wrote of this decision: \"The Court did not express an opinion as to whether the war on Iraq constituted an act of aggression in the first part of its judgment when dealing with the exceptions of the obligation of a German member of the Federal Armed Forces to obey orders. At a later stage in the written reasons, however, it jumped to the conclusion that a state, which resorts to military force without justification and, therefore, violates the prohibition of the use of force provided for by Art. 2.4 of the Charter, at the same time commits an act of military aggression. The (non-binding) Definition of Aggression of the GA attached to UN General Assembly Resolution 3314 is broad enough to support this conclusion. However, it has to recalled that the State Parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) could not agree on a definition of the crime of aggression.\"\n\nNikolaus Schultz wrote in summary of this case: \"These findings were watered down to an extent by the Court when it used the cautious proviso that the actions of the states involved only gave rise to grave concerns before arguing the respective issues at stake. By doing that, the Court shifted the burden to the individual soldiers and their decision of conscience whether to obey an order rather than reaching the conclusion that participating in a war violating rules of international law, and even constituting an act of aggression, as the court held, would be illegal and, therefore, justify insubordination.\"\n\nThe operation of the multi-national force in 2003 was supported by the Dutch government following intelligence from the UK and US. In January 2010, in the Netherlands the 10-month Davids Commission inquiry published its final report. The Commission had been tasked with investigating Dutch government decision-making on political support for the war in Iraq in 2003 . The inquiry by the Dutch commission was the first ever independent legal assessment of the invasion decision. The Dutch commissioners included the former president of the Supreme Court, a former judge of the European Court of Justice, and two academic lawyers.\n\nAccording to the report, the Dutch cabinet failed to fully inform the House of Representatives that the allies' military action against Iraq \"had no sound mandate under international law\" and that the United Kingdom was instrumental in influencing the Dutch decision to back the war. It also emerged that the British government had refused to disclose a key document requested by the Dutch panel, a letter to Balkenende from Tony Blair, asking for the support. This letter was said to have been handed over in a \"breach of diplomatic protocol\" and therefore for Balkenende's eyes only.\n\nIn response, Balkenende stated that he had fully informed of the House of Representatives about government support for the invasion, and that Saddam Hussein's repeated refusal to respect UN resolutions and co-operate with UN weapons inspectors had justified the invasion.\n\n"}
{"id": "57019149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57019149", "title": "Legislatures of Kingdom of Nepal", "text": "Legislatures of Kingdom of Nepal\n\nKingdom of Nepal (1768 - 2008), first time introduced legislature in 1948. Rana Prime Minister Padma Shumsher Jang Bahadur Rana forms Constitution Reform Committee to draft first constitution of Nepal in 1947 and Government of Nepal Act, 1948 passed in 1948. However, Mohan Shumsher Jang Bahadur Rana suspended the promulgation of the Constitution. \n\nIn 1950, Mohan Shumsher Jang Bahadur Rana himself promulgates the Government of Nepal Act, 1948 which was suspended by him in 1948.\n\nOn January 15, 2007 a new legislature promulgated The interim constitution of Nepal, 2007 which declared Nepal a democratic country and abolished Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "16224678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16224678", "title": "Lex Parliamentaria", "text": "Lex Parliamentaria\n\nLex Parliamentaria; or, A treatise of the law and custom of the Parliaments of England, was a pocket manual for members of the Parliament of England first published in 1690. It was originally attributed to George Petyt. However, an attribution to Irishman George Philips seems now to be widely accepted, including by the historians Sir James Ware and Walter Harris. Thomas Jefferson praised the book in a letter to his son-in-law, opining, \"For parliamentary knowledge the \"Lex parliamentaria\" is the best book.\" Its American counterparts are Jefferson's own 1801 \"Manual of Parliamentary Practice\" and \"Lex Parliamentaria Americana\" by Luther Stearns Cushing. The term \"lex parliamentaria\" is also sometimes used to describe parliamentary law in general.\n\n"}
{"id": "11045469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11045469", "title": "Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act", "text": "Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act\n\nThe Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, also known as the Matthew Shepard Act, is an American Act of Congress, passed on October 22, 2009, and signed into law by President Barack Obama on October 28, 2009, as a rider to the National Defense Authorization Act for 2010 (H.R. 2647). Conceived as a response to the murders of Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr., both in 1998, the measure expands the 1969 United States federal hate-crime law to include crimes motivated by a victim's actual or perceived gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability.\n\nThe bill also:\n\nThe Act is named after Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Shepard was a student who was tortured and murdered in 1998 near Laramie, Wyoming. The attack was widely reported due to his being gay, and the trial employed a gay panic defense. Byrd was an African American man who was tied to a truck by two white supremacists, dragged behind it, and decapitated in Jasper, Texas, in 1998. Shepard's murderers were given life sentences—in large part because his parents sought mercy for his killers. Two of Byrd's murderers were sentenced to death, while the third was sentenced to life in prison. All the convictions were obtained without the assistance of hate crimes laws, since none were applicable at the time.\n\nThe murders and subsequent trials brought national and international attention to the desire to amend U.S. hate crime legislation at both the state and federal levels. Wyoming hate crime laws at the time did not recognize homosexuals as a suspect class, whereas Texas had no hate crime laws at all.\n\nSupporters of an expansion of hate crime laws argued that hate crimes are worse than regular crimes without a prejudiced motivation from a psychological perspective. The time it takes to mentally recover from a hate crime is almost twice as long as it is for a regular crime, and LGBT people often feel as if they are being punished for their sexuality, which leads to higher incidence of depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder. They also cited the response to Shepard's murder by many LGBT people, especially youth, who reported going back into the closet, fearing for their safety, experiencing a strong sense of self-loathing, and upset that the same thing could happen to them because of their sexual orientation.\n\nThe 1969 federal hate-crime law () extends to crimes motivated by actual or perceived race, color, religion, or national origin, and only while the victim is engaging in a federally protected activity, like voting or going to school. Penalties, under both the existing law and the LLEHCPA (Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act, originally called the \"Local Law Enforcement Enhancement Act\"), for hate crimes involving firearms are prison terms of up to 10 years, while crimes involving kidnapping, sexual assault, or murder can bring life in prison. In 1990, Congress passed the Hate Crimes Statistics Act which allowed the government to count the incidence of hate crimes based on religion, race, national origin, and sexual orientation. However, a sentence was added onto the end of bill stating that federal funds should not be used to \"promote or encourage homosexuality\".\n\nAccording to FBI statistics, of the over 113,000 hate crimes since 1991, 55% were motivated by racial bias, 17% by religious bias, 14% sexual orientation bias, 14% ethnicity bias, and 1% disability bias.\n\nAlthough not necessarily on the same scale as Matthew Shepard's murder, violent incidences against gays and lesbians occur frequently. Gay and lesbian people are often verbally abused, assaulted both physically and sexually, and threatened not just by peers and strangers, but also by family members. One study of 192 gay men aged 14–21 found that approximately 1/3 reported being verbally assaulted by at least one family member when they came out and another 10% reported being physically assaulted. Gay and lesbian youth are particularly prone to victimization. A nationwide study of over 9,000 gay high school students revealed that 24% of gay men and 11% of gay women reported being victimized at least ten times a year due to their sexual orientation. Victims often experience severe depression, a sense of helplessness, low self-esteem, and frequent suicidal thoughts. Gay youth are two to four times more likely to be threatened with a deadly weapon at school and miss more days of school than their heterosexual peers. Further, they are two to seven times more likely to attempt suicide. Some feel these issues, the societal stigma around homosexuality and fear of bias-motivated attack, lead to gay men and women, especially teenagers, becoming more likely to abuse drugs such as marijuana and cocaine and alcohol, have unprotected sex with multiple sexual partners, find themselves in unwanted sexual situations, have body image and eating disorders, and be at higher risk for STDs and HIV/AIDS.\n\nThe Act was supported by thirty-one state Attorneys General and over 210 national law enforcement, professional, education, civil rights, religious, and civic organizations, including the AFL-CIO, the American Medical Association, the American Psychological Association, and the NAACP. A November 2001 poll indicated that 73% of Americans were in favor of hate-crime legislation covering sexual orientation.\n\nThe LLEHCPA was introduced in substantially similar form in each Congress since the 105th Congress in 1999. The 2007 bill expanded on the earlier versions by including transgender provisions and making it explicit that the law should not be interpreted to restrict people's freedom of speech or association.\n\nJames Dobson, founder of the socially conservative Focus on the Family, opposed the Act, arguing that it would effectively \"muzzle people of faith who dare to express their moral and biblical concerns about homosexuality\". However, H.R. 1592 contains a \"Rule of Construction\" which specifically provides that \"Nothing in this Act...shall be construed to prohibit any expressive conduct protected from legal prohibition by, or any activities protected by the free speech or free exercise clauses of, the First Amendment to the Constitution\".\n\nSenator Jeff Sessions, among other Senators, was concerned that the bill would not protect all individuals equally. Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina spoke against the bill, saying that it was unnecessary, that it violated the 14th Amendment, and that it would be a step closer to the prosecution of \"thought crimes\". Four members of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights wrote a letter stating their opposition to the bill, citing concerns of double jeopardy.\n\nThe bill was first introduced into the 107 Congress's House of Representatives on April 3, 2001, by Rep. John Conyers and was referred to the Subcommittee on Crime. The bill died when it failed to advance in the committee.\n\nIt was reintroduced by Rep. Conyers in the 108th and 109th congresses (on April 22, 2004, and May 26, 2005, respectively). As previously, it died both times when it failed to advance in committee.\n\nSimilar legislation was introduced by Sen. Gordon H. Smith (R–OR) as an amendment to the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 () on June 14, 2004. Although the amendment passed the U.S. Senate by a vote of 65–33, it was later removed by conference committee.\n\nThe bill was introduced for the fourth time into the House on March 30, 2007, by Conyers. The 2007 version of the bill added gender identity to the list of suspect classes for prosecution of hate crimes. The bill was again referred to the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security.\n\nThe bill passed the subcommittee by voice vote and the full House Judiciary Committee by a vote of 20–14. The bill then proceeded to the full House, where it was passed on May 3, 2007, with a vote of 237–180 with Representative Barney Frank, one of two openly gay members of the House at the time, presiding.\n\nThe bill then proceeded to the U.S. Senate, where it was introduced by Senator Ted Kennedy and Senator Gordon Smith on April 12, 2007. It was referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. The bill died when it failed to advance in the Senate committee.\n\nOn July 11, 2007, Kennedy attempted to introduce the bill again as an amendment to the Senate Defense Reauthorization bill (). The Senate hate crime amendment had 44 cosponsors, including four Republicans. After Republicans staged a filibuster on a troop-withdrawal amendment to the defense bill, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid delayed the votes on the hate crime amendment and the defense bill until September.\n\nThe bill passed the Senate on September 27, 2007, as an amendment to the Defense Reauthorization bill. The cloture vote was 60–39 in favor. The amendment was then approved by voice vote. President Bush indicated he might veto the DoD authorization bill if it reached his desk with the hate crimes legislation attached. Ultimately, the amendment was dropped by the Democratic leadership because of opposition from antiwar Democrats, conservative groups, and Bush.\n\nIn late 2008, then-President-elect Barack Obama's website stated that one of the goals of his new administration would be to see the bill passed.\n\nConyers introduced the bill for the fifth time into the House on April 2, 2009. In his introductory speech, he claimed that many law enforcement groups, such as the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National Sheriffs Association and 31 state Attorneys General support the bill and that the impact hate violence has on communities justifies federal involvement.\n\nThe bill was immediately referred to the full Judiciary Committee, where it passed by a vote of 15–12 on April 23, 2009.\n\nOn April 28, 2009, Rep. Mike Honda (D-CA) claimed that if the bill were passed it may help prevent the murders of transgender Americans, such as the murder of Angie Zapata. Conversely, Rep. Steve King (R-IA) claimed that the bill was an expansion of a category of \"thought crimes\" and compared the bill to the book \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\". That same day, the House Rules Committee allowed one hour and 20 minutes for debate.\n\nThe bill then moved to the full House, for debate. During the debate, Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) claimed that the bill would help prevent murders such as those of spree killer Benjamin Nathaniel Smith and would take \"an important step\" towards a more just society. After the vote, Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) claimed that equal protection regardless of status is a fundamental premise of the nation and thus the bill is unnecessary, and that, rather, it would prevent religious organizations from expressing their beliefs openly (although the bill only refers to violent actions, not speech.)\n\nThe bill passed the House on April 29, 2009, by a vote of 249–175, with support from 231 Democrats and 18 Republicans, including Republican Main Street Partnership members Judy Biggert (IL), Mary Bono Mack (CA), Joseph Cao (LA), Mike Castle (DE), Charlie Dent (PA), Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL), Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ), Jim Gerlach (PA), Mark Kirk (IL), Leonard Lance (NJ), Frank LoBiondo (NJ), Todd Russell Platts (PA), Dave Reichert (WA), and Greg Walden (OR) along with Bill Cassidy (LA), Mike Coffman (CO), and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL).\n\nOn April 30, 2009, Rep. Todd Tiahrt (R-KS) compared the bill to the novel \"Animal Farm\" and claimed it would harm free speech. Rep. George Miller (D-CA) and Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) both announced that they were unable to be present for the vote, but had they been present they would each have voted in favor. Conversely, Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) claimed federal law was already sufficient to prevent hate crimes and said that had he been present he would have voted against the bill.\n\nOn October 8, 2009, the House passed the \"Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act\" as part of the conference report on Defense Authorization for fiscal year 2010. The vote was 281–146, with support from 237 Democrats and 44 Republicans.\n\nThe bill again proceeded to the Senate, where it was again introduced by Kennedy on April 28, 2009. The Senate version of the bill had 45 cosponsors as of July 8, 2009.\n\nOn June 25, 2009, the Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing on the bill. Attorney General Eric Holder testified in support of the bill, the first time a sitting Attorney General has ever testified in favor of the bill. During his testimony, Holder mentioned his previous testimony on a nearly identical bill to the senate in July 1998 (the Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 1998, S. 1529), just months before Matthew Shepard was murdered. According to CNN, Holder testified that, \"more than 77,000 hate crime incidents were reported by the FBI between 1998 and 2007, or 'nearly one hate crime for every hour of every day over the span of a decade.'\" Holder emphasized that one of his \"highest personal priorities ... is to do everything I can to ensure this critical legislation finally becomes law\".\n\nReverend Mark Achtemeier of the University of Dubuque Theological Seminary, Janet Langhart, whose play was premiering at the United States Holocaust Museum at the time of the shooting earlier in the month and Michael Lieberman of the Anti-Defamation League also testified in favor of the bill. Gail Heriot of the United States Commission on Civil Rights and Brian Walsh of the Heritage Foundation testified in opposition to the bill.\n\nThe Matthew Shepard Act was adopted as an amendment to (the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010) by a 63–28 cloture vote on July 15, 2009. At the request of Senator Jeff Sessions (an opponent of the Matthew Shepard Act), an amendment was added to the Senate version of the hate crimes legislation that would have allowed prosecutors to seek the death penalty for hate crime murders, though the amendment was later removed in conference with the House.\n\nThe bill won the support of five Republicans: Susan Collins (ME), Dick Lugar (IN), Lisa Murkowski (AK), Olympia Snowe (ME), and George Voinovich (OH).\n\nThe bill passed the Senate when the Defense bill passed on July 23, 2009. As originally passed, the House version of the defense bill did not include the hate crimes legislation, requiring the difference to be worked out in a Conference committee. On October 7, 2009, the Conference committee published the final version of the bill, which included the hate crimes amendment; the conference report was then passed by the House on October 8, 2009. On October 22, 2009, following a 64–35 cloture vote, the conference report was passed by the Senate by a vote of 68–29. The bill was signed into law on the afternoon of October 28, 2009, by President Barack Obama.\n\nIn May 2011, a man in Arkansas pleaded guilty under the Act to running a car containing five Hispanic men off the road. As a result, he became the first person ever convicted under the Act. A second man involved in the same incident was later convicted under the Act; his appeal of that conviction was denied on August 6, 2012.\n\nIn August 2011, one man in New Mexico pleaded guilty to branding a swastika into the arm of a developmentally disabled man of Navajo descent. A second man entered a guilty plea to conspiracy to commit a federal hate crime. The two men were accused of branding the victim, shaving a swastika into his head, and writing the words \"white power\" and the acronym \"KKK\" on his body. A third man in June 2011, entered a guilty plea to conspiracy to commit a federal hate crime. All three men were charged under the Act in December 2010.\n\nOn March 15, 2012, the Kentucky State Police assisted the FBI in arresting David Jenkins, Anthony Jenkins, Mable Jenkins, and Alexis Jenkins of Partridge, Kentucky, for the beating of Kevin Pennington during a late-night attack in April 2011 at Kingdom Come State Park, near Cumberland. The push came from the gay-rights group Kentucky Equality Federation, whose president, Jordan Palmer, began lobbying the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky in August 2011 to prosecute after stating he had no confidence in the Harlan County Commonwealth's Attorney to act. \"I think the case's notoriety may have derived in large part from the Kentucky Equality Federation efforts,\" said Harvey, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky. Mable Jenkins and Alexis Jenkins pleaded guilty.\n\nIn 2016, for the first time the Justice Department used the Act to bring criminal charges against a person for selecting a victim because of their gender identity. In that case Joshua Brandon Vallum pled guilty to murdering Mercedes Williamson in 2015 because she was transgender, in violation of the Act. In 2017, he was \"sentenced to 49 years in prison and fined $20,000 for killing his ex-girlfriend because she was transgender.\" The Justice Department reported that \"[t]his is the first case prosecuted under the Hate Crimes Prevention Act involving a victim targeted because of gender identity.\"\n\nThe constitutionality of the law was challenged in a 2010 lawsuit filed by the Thomas More Law Center; the lawsuit was dismissed.\n\nWilliam Hatch, who pleaded guilty to a hate crime in the New Mexico case, also contested the law on Constitutional grounds. The Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals heard the case (\"U.S. v. Hatch\") and upheld the conviction on June 3, 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54956", "title": "Montesquieu", "text": "Montesquieu\n\nCharles-Louis de Secondat, Baron de La Brède et de Montesquieu (; ; 18 January 1689 – 10 February 1755), generally referred to as simply Montesquieu, was a French judge, man of letters, and political philosopher.\n\nHe is famous for his articulation of the theory of separation of powers, which is implemented in many constitutions throughout the world. He is also known for doing more than any other author to secure the place of the word \"despotism\" in the political lexicon. His anonymously published \"The Spirit of the Laws\" in 1748, which was received well in both Great Britain and the American colonies, influenced the Founding Fathers in drafting the United States Constitution.\n\nMontesquieu was born at the Château de la Brède in southwest France, south of Bordeaux. His father, Jacques de Secondat, was a soldier with a long noble ancestry. His mother, Marie Françoise de Pesnel, who died when Charles was seven, was an heiress who brought the title of Barony of La Brède to the Secondat family. After the death of his mother he was sent to the Catholic College of Juilly, a prominent school for the children of French nobility, where he remained from 1700 to 1711. His father died in 1713 and he became a ward of his uncle, the Baron de Montesquieu. He became a counselor of the Bordeaux Parliament in 1714. The next year, he married the Protestant Jeanne de Lartigue, who eventually bore him three children. The Baron died in 1716, leaving him his fortune as well as his title, and the office of président à mortier in the Bordeaux Parliament.\n\nMontesquieu's early life occurred at a time of significant governmental change. England had declared itself a constitutional monarchy in the wake of its Glorious Revolution (1688–89), and had joined with Scotland in the Union of 1707 to form the Kingdom of Great Britain. In France, the long-reigning Louis XIV died in 1715 and was succeeded by the five-year-old Louis XV. These national transformations had a great impact on Montesquieu; he would refer to them repeatedly in his work.\n\nMontesquieu withdrew from the practice of law to devote himself to study and writing. He achieved literary success with the publication of his 1721 \"Persian Letters\", a satire representing society as seen through the eyes of two imaginary Persian visitors to Paris and Europe, cleverly criticizing the absurdities of contemporary French society. He next published \"Considerations on the Causes of the Greatness of the Romans and their Decline\" (1734), considered by some scholars, among his three best known books, as a transition from \"The Persian Letters\" to his master work. \"The Spirit of the Laws\" was originally published anonymously in 1748. The book quickly rose to influence political thought profoundly in Europe and America. In France, the book met with an unfriendly reception from both supporters and opponents of the regime. The Catholic Church banned \"The Spirit\" – along with many of Montesquieu's other works – in 1751 and included it on the Index of Prohibited Books. It received the highest praise from the rest of Europe, especially Britain.\n\nMontesquieu was also highly regarded in the British colonies in North America as a champion of liberty (though not of American independence). According to one political scientist, he was the most frequently quoted authority on government and politics in colonial pre-revolutionary British America, cited more by the American founders than any source except for the Bible. Following the American Revolution, Montesquieu's work remained a powerful influence on many of the American founders, most notably James Madison of Virginia, the \"Father of the Constitution\". Montesquieu's philosophy that \"government should be set up so that no man need be afraid of another\" reminded Madison and others that a free and stable foundation for their new national government required a clearly defined and balanced separation of powers.\nBesides composing additional works on society and politics, Montesquieu traveled for a number of years through Europe including Austria and Hungary, spending a year in Italy and 18 months in England, where he became a freemason, admitted to the \"Horn Tavern\" Lodge in Westminster, before resettling in France. He was troubled by poor eyesight, and was completely blind by the time he died from a high fever in 1755. He was buried in the Église Saint-Sulpice, Paris.\n\nMontesquieu's philosophy of history minimized the role of individual persons and events. He expounded the view in \"Considérations sur les causes de la grandeur des Romains et de leur décadence\" that each historical event was driven by a principal movement:\n\nIn discussing the transition from the Republic to the Empire, he suggested that if Caesar and Pompey had not worked to usurp the government of the Republic, other men would have risen in their place. The cause was not the ambition of Caesar or Pompey, but the ambition of man.\n\nMontesquieu is credited as being among the progenitors, which include Herodotus and Tacitus, of anthropology, as being among the first to extend comparative methods of classification to the political forms in human societies. Indeed, the French political anthropologist Georges Balandier considered Montesquieu to be \"the initiator of a scientific enterprise that for a time performed the role of cultural and social anthropology\". According to social anthropologist D. F. Pocock, Montesquieu's \"The Spirit of the Laws\" was \"the first consistent attempt to survey the varieties of human society, to classify and compare them and, within society, to study the inter-functioning of institutions.\" Montesquieu's political anthropology gave rise to his theories on government. When Catherine the Great wrote her \"Nakaz\" (Instruction) for the Legislative Assembly she had created to clarify the existing Russian law code, she avowed borrowing heavily from Montesquieu's \"Spirit of the Laws\", although she discarded or altered portions that did not support Russia's absolutist bureaucratic monarchy.\n\nMontesquieu's most influential work divided French society into three classes (or \"trias politica\", a term he coined): the monarchy, the aristocracy, and the commons. Montesquieu saw two types of governmental power existing: the sovereign and the administrative. The administrative powers were the executive, the legislative, and the judicial. These should be separate from and dependent upon each other so that the influence of any one power would not be able to exceed that of the other two, either singly or in combination. This was a radical idea because it completely eliminated the three Estates structure of the French Monarchy: the clergy, the aristocracy, and the people at large represented by the Estates-General, thereby erasing the last vestige of a feudalistic structure.\n\nHis famous articulation of the theory of the separation of powers is found in \"The Spirit of the Laws\":\n\nMontesquieu argues that each Power should only exercise its own functions, it was quite explicit here:\n\nIf the legislative branch appoints the executive and judicial powers, as Montesquieu indicated, there will be no separation or division of its powers, since the power to appoint carries with it the power to revoke.\n\nLikewise, there were three main forms of government, each supported by a social \"principle\": monarchies (free governments headed by a hereditary figure, e.g. king, queen, emperor), which rely on the principle of honor; republics (free governments headed by popularly elected leaders), which rely on the principle of virtue; and despotisms (enslaved governments headed by dictators), which rely on fear. The free governments are dependent on fragile constitutional arrangements. Montesquieu devotes four chapters of \"The Spirit of the Laws\" to a discussion of England, a contemporary free government, where liberty was sustained by a balance of powers. Montesquieu worried that in France the intermediate powers (i.e., the nobility) which moderated the power of the prince were being eroded. These ideas of the control of power were often used in the thinking of Maximilien de Robespierre.\n\nMontesquieu advocated reform of slavery in \"The Spirit of the Laws\". As part of his advocacy he presented a satirical hypothetical list of arguments for slavery.\n\nWhile addressing French readers of his \"General Theory\", John Maynard Keynes described Montesquieu as \"the real French equivalent of Adam Smith, the greatest of your economists, head and shoulders above the physiocrats in penetration, clear-headedness and good sense (which are the qualities an economist should have).\"\n\nAnother example of Montesquieu's anthropological thinking, outlined in \"The Spirit of the Laws\" and hinted at in \"Persian Letters\", is his meteorological climate theory, which holds that climate may substantially influence the nature of man and his society. By placing an emphasis on environmental influences as a material condition of life, Montesquieu prefigured modern anthropology's concern with the impact of material conditions, such as available energy sources, organized production systems, and technologies, on the growth of complex socio-cultural systems.\n\nHe goes so far as to assert that certain climates are superior to others, the temperate climate of France being ideal. His view is that people living in very warm countries are \"too hot-tempered\", while those in northern countries are \"icy\" or \"stiff\". The climate of middle Europe is therefore optimal. On this point, Montesquieu may well have been influenced by a similar pronouncement in \"The Histories\" of Herodotus, where he makes a distinction between the \"ideal\" temperate climate of Greece as opposed to the overly cold climate of Scythia and the overly warm climate of Egypt. This was a common belief at the time, and can also be found within the medical writings of Herodotus' times, including the \"On Airs, Waters, Places\" of the Hippocratic corpus. One can find a similar statement in \"Germania\" by Tacitus, one of Montesquieu's favorite authors.\n\nPhilip M. Parker in his book \"Physioeconomics\" endorses Montesquieu's theory and argues that much of the economic variation between countries is explained by the physiological effect of different climates.\n\nFrom a sociological perspective Louis Althusser, in his analysis of Montesquieu's revolution in method, alluded to the seminal character of anthropology's inclusion of material factors, such as climate, in the explanation of social dynamics and political forms. Examples of certain climatic and geographical factors giving rise to increasingly complex social systems include those that were conducive to the rise of agriculture and the domestication of wild plants and animals.\n\n\nA definitive edition of Montesquieu's works is being published by the Société Montesquieu. It is planned to total 22 volumes, of which (at February 2018) half have appeared.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36631518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36631518", "title": "New South Wales v Commonwealth (1915)", "text": "New South Wales v Commonwealth (1915)\n\nNew South Wales v Commonwealth, commonly known as the Wheat case, or more recently as the Inter-State Commission case, is a landmark Australian judgment of the High Court made in 1915 regarding judicial separation of power. It was also a leading case on the freedom of interstate trade and commerce that is guaranteed by section 92 of the Constitution.\n\nIn 1914 there were rising prices in Australia for various commodities, including wheat, caused by a drought in Australia from 1911 to 1916 and the outbreak of World War I in July 1914. The initial response of the Parliament of NSW was to fix the price of wheat at 4s 2d (4 shillings and 2 pence) per bushel while the then market price was 5 p higher at 4s 7d. Farmers and merchants refused to sell their wheat at that price and resulted in the Government seizure of wheat stored at railway yards. By December 1914 the market price in Victoria had risen to 5s 6d. The NSW Parliament passed the Wheat Acquisition Act 1914 to compulsorily acquire wheat in NSW and for varying or cancelling contracts for the sale and delivery of wheat, paying a price of 5s per bushel of wheat acquired. The acquisition necessarily prevented the performance of any existing contracts for the sale of wheat in NSW to be exported to another State.\n\nIn January 1915, the Commonwealth applied to the Inter-State Commission for an order to prohibit the NSW Government and the NSW Inspector-General of Police from preventing the exportation of wheat to other States on the basis that this acquisition infringed the Constitution's guarantee of freedom of interstate trade and commerce. The commission consisted of a chief commissioner, Albert Piddington, who had been briefly appointed to the High Court but resigned before hearing a case, and two laypersons, George Swinburne and Nicholas Lockyer (Comptroller-General of Customs). The Inter-State Commission found that the NSW Wheat Acquisition was invalid and made the order sought by the Commonwealth, with Swinburne and Lockyer finding that NSW had contravened section 92 of the Constitution by compulsorily acquiring wheat which was the subject of contracts for interstate sale and was in the course of interstate transport. Piddington disagreed, holding that the Act was a valid exercise of the power of a State to compulsorily acquire food for the civilian population.\n\nNSW appealed to the High Court, challenging the decision not only on the basis that NSW contended that it had not infringed the freedom of interstate commerce, but challenged the very foundation of the Inter-State Commission. The argument was that the \"Inter-State Commission Act\" 1912, was contrary to the separation of powers that was implicit in the Constitution. The argument had its foundation in the structure of the Constitution, where dealt with the Parliament, with the Executive Government and chapter 3 with the Judicature. The Inter-State Commission is not within any of these chapters, instead it is within which deals with finance and trade.\n\nThe idea that the executive is unable to exercise judicial power has its origins in the 1607 decision in the Case of Prohibitions which held that the King had no right to personally sit as a judge and interpret the law. The more immediate precursor was the separation of powers under the United States Constitution including the power of the Supreme Court to review whether a law passed by Congress was unconstitutional.\n\nThe High Court upheld the appeal by NSW on both grounds, the majority deciding that the strict insulation of judicial power was a fundamental principle of the Constitution. All judges held that the compulsory acquisition of all wheat, even though it included wheat that was the subject of interstate trade, did not contravene the freedom of interstate trade that was guaranteed by section 92 of the Constitution.\n\nThe High Court held that only a court established under Chapter III of the constitution can exercise the judicial power of the Commonwealth. The Inter-State Commission created by the \"Inter-State Commission Act\" 1912 could not exercise judicial power despite the words of section 101 of the Constitution, because it was set up by the executive and violated the conditions for being a Chapter III court.\n\nGriffith CJ noted that under the Constitution a judge of a federal court was appointed for life, while a member of the Inter-State Commission was appointed for a seven-year term and that s73 identified the Inter-State Commission as separate and distinct from a federal court. His Honour held the functions of the Inter-State Commission contemplated by the Constitution are executive or administrative, and the powers of adjudication intended are such powers of determining questions of fact as may be necessary for the performance of its executive or administrative functions.\n\nIsaacs J considered the use of the word adjudication in section 101 of the Constitution and the related reference in section 73 to \"judgments, decrees, orders, and sentences\" of, inter alia, the Inter-State Commission. His Honour found that the separation of powers was a fundamental principle of the Constitution.\n\nRich J held that \"The Constitution draws a clear distinction – well known in all British communities – between the legislative, executive and judicial functions of Government of the Commonwealth.\" and that the Inter-State Commission fitted within the executive function, holding that \"I see no reason why powers of adjudication and administration which may be conferred by Parliament on the Inter-State Commission ... should be any wider in scope than the power conferred upon the Executive by sec. 61. Indeed, one would expect that they might well be something less.\"\n\nPowers J agreed with Griffith CJ and Isaacs J.\n\nBarton & Gavan Duffy JJ disagreed. Barton J held that the Constitution gave the Parliament an absolute discretion as to what adjudicatory or administrative powers it deemed necessary for the Inter-State Commission.\n\nGriffith CJ held that the power of a State to power to expropriate private property was a power inherent in sovereignty, provided the property was within the territorial limits of the State.\n\nBarton J similarly held that a State had the power to expropriate property. While the Act changed the ownership of wheat, it did not prevent the State as the new owner from participating in interstate trade.\n\nIsaacs J held that because all wheat in NSW was treated alike, with no differentiation arising by reason of inter-State trade, there was no interference with interstate trade... while neither States nor Commonwealth can detract from the absolute freedom of trade and commerce between Australian citizens in the property they possess, there is nothing to prevent either States or Commonwealth, for their own lawful purposes, from becoming themselves owners of that property and applying it, according to law, to the common welfare\nGavan Duffy J. said:—\nIt is to be observed that sec. 51 (I.) of the Constitution enables Parliament to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to Trade and commerce with other countries, and among the States. The words absolutely free in sec. 92 must, therefore, be subject to some limitation so as to give them a meaning which is consistent with the existence of this legislative power, and the meaning when ascertained must be the same always and in all conceivable circumstances; it must apply equally when we are considering the right of the Commonwealth to legislate under sec. 51 (i.), and of the States to legislate under sec. 107.\n\nThe Wheat case sounded the death knell, not only to the Inter-State Commission, but also to the combined function approach to administrative adjudication in Australia. The decision continues to have ramifications for both federal courts and non-judicial tribunals and has been followed in numerous High Court decisions, including\n\n"}
{"id": "23276072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23276072", "title": "Non-violation nullification of benefits", "text": "Non-violation nullification of benefits\n\nNon-violation nullification of benefits (NVNB) claims are a species of dispute settlement in the World Trade Organization arising under World Trade Organization multilateral and bilateral trade agreements. NVNB claims are controversial in that they are widely perceived to promote the social vices of unpredictability and uncertainty in international trade law. Other commentators have described NVNB claims as potentially inserting corporate competition policy into the World Trade Organization Dispute Settlement Understanding (DSU).\n\nNVNB claims are directly referred to in Article 26 of the World Trade Organization DSU, Article XXIII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 (GATT 1994) Article XXIII of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) and Article 64 of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS).In GATT jurisprudence, NVNB complaints appear to have originally been designed to counter the capacity of countries to avoid relatively simple obligations and specific tariff concessions in multilateral trade agreements, by making ambiguous domestic regulatory arrangements.\n\nNVNB claims provisions also exist in many bilateral trade agreements. In the Australia-United States Free Trade Agreement(AUSFTA) article 21.2 (c) provides an NVNB claim:\n\nThe Australian academic Thomas Alured Faunce has argued that by expressly applying Annex 2C on pharmaceuticals, the NVNB claim in article 21.2(c) of the AUSFTA may have been responsible for lobbying by United States negotiators around the constructive ambiguity of reward of innovation (through the Medicines Working Group established by article 2C of the AUSFTA) that influenced Australian legislative changes impacting on reference pricing under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. He maintains that such pressure from NVNB claims is most likely to arise from 'behind doors' lobbying using threats of cross-retaliation (threatening a trade dispute in one trade area to obtain a result in a different sector) if a planned or existing domestic policy is perceived to breach the 'spirit' of the relevant bilateral trade agreement. Formal dispute resolution proceedings may never be initiated or be intended to commence if such lobbying is persuasive. If this hypothesis is correct, it represents a disturbing example of regulatory capture and has worrying implications for democratic sovereignty. The Australian government, however, strenuously denies such claims.\n\nUnder such NVNB provisions, the full range of dispute resolution mechanisms may be invoked whether or not a breach of any specific provision is alleged or substantiated. The precondition is that a 'reasonably expected' 'benefit' accruing under the relevant trade agreement, has been 'nullified or impaired' by a 'measure' applied by a WTO Member.\nFive requisite elements of a NVNB claim arguably have been identified by Dispute Resolution Panels:\n1. That a 'measure' has been applied by a party subsequent to the entry into force of the relevant trade agreement;\n2. That a 'benefit' was reasonably expected by the other party as being negotiated in return for some textual agreement; and\n3. That as a result of the application of the measure that benefit has been 'nullified or impaired.'\n4. That the nullification or impairment was contrary to the legitimate or reasonable expectations of the complainant at the time of the negotiations\n5. That such claims will only be used in extremely rare circumstances (for example proven bad faith during negotiations), due to their capacity to upset the certainty of the international trading order.\n\nArticle 3.2 of the World Trade Organization DSU requires panels to clarify existing provisions of agreements in accordance with customary rules of interpretation of public international law. This leads to consideration of how the NVNB principle interacts with Article 26 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, incorporating the principle of pacta sunt servanda: \"Every treaty in force is binding upon the parties to it and must be performed by them in good faith.\" NVNB claims appear to undermine this fundamental principle of international law by subsequent reinterpretations based on the 'spirit' of the agreement.\n\nBoth the United States and European Economic Community have argued before a GATT 1994 panel that recourse to NVNB claims should remain 'exceptional' or the trading world would be plunged into a state of precariousness and uncertainty. Dispute this, however, the United States has inserted NVNB claims in many bilateral trade agreements. \n\nThe Appellate Body in the WTO \"EC - Asbestos Case\" agreed with the Panel in the WTO \"Japan – Film Case\", stating that the non-violation nullification or impairment remedy in GATT Article XXIII:1(b): \"should be approached with caution and treated as an exceptional concept.\" The reason for this caution is straightforward. Members negotiate the rules that they agree to follow and only exceptionally would expect to be challenged for actions not in contravention of those rules.\n\nThe governments of Canada, the Czech Republic, the European Communities, Hungary and Turkey have stated at the World Trade Organization that \"the uncertainty regarding the application of such non-violation complaints needs to be resolved so as to minimize the possibility of unintended interpretation.\"\n\nContemporary controversy over NVNB claims and proceedings arises in large part from their potential to allow a WTO Member to threaten a trade dispute if a wide and largely undefined range of domestic regulatory components are not altered, or compensation organised. It may facilitate a WTO dispute settlement process involving deliberate diplomatic ‘gaming’ of trade ‘rules,’ breaking of finely balanced textual truces and dispute panel interpretations that more an act of ongoing negotiation, than judicial analysis.\n\nAt the WTO meeting in Hong Kong in December 2005, the United States delegation pushed hard behind the scenes for trade concessions in return for its acquiescence to the moratorium on the use of NVNB provisions under TRIPS. The resultant Ministerial Declaration left the position of NVNB claims under TRIPS extremely uncertain.\n\nOne way of circumscribing NVNB claims so they are compatible with the obligation to act in good faith and with other rules of treaty interpretation under Articles 31 and 32 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties is to restrict their operation to ensuring 'transparency and openness' in the negotiating process. In consequence, in NVNB disputes, the inquiry to be made by a dispute resolution Panel is whether the complaining party was induced into error during negotiations by the other treaty Party about a fact or situation, that the former could not reasonably have foreseen.\n\n"}
{"id": "9740196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9740196", "title": "Quebec (Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse) v Boisbriand (City of)", "text": "Quebec (Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse) v Boisbriand (City of)\n\nQuebec (Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse) v Boisbriand (City of), 2000 SCC 27, [2000] 1 S.C.R. 665, is a leading Canadian civil rights decision of the Supreme Court of Canada. The Court considered the nature of a handicap in law and found that a handicap is not merely a biomedical condition but rather can exist as a perceived limitation or social construct.\n\nThe decision arises from two separate claims by individuals for discrimination under the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. Réjeanne Mercier was refused employment with the city of Montreal as a Gardener-horticulturalist on the grounds that her medical condition involving chronic back pains would be too costly and would interfere with her long-term employment. Palmerino Troilo was a police officer for the city of Boisbriand. He was dismissed after missing work due to having Crohn's disease.\n\nJustice L'Heureux-Dube wrote the reasons for a unanimous Court and dismissed the appeal.\n\nThe issue focused on the interpretation of the word \"handicap\" in the \"Charter\". She stated that given the \"Charter\"'s quasi-constitutional status it must be given a liberal and purposive interpretation. A handicap can exist outside of functional limitations. There is also a subjective component on which there can be discrimination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6596302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6596302", "title": "Quinn Norton", "text": "Quinn Norton\n\nQuinn Norton (born May 1973) is an American journalist and essayist. Her work covers hacker culture, Anonymous, Occupy movement, intellectual property and copyright issues, and the Internet.\n\nQuinn Norton was born in May 1973. She grew up in a poor family and her father's struggles with his experience post-Vietnam, and his drug-related incarceration inspired her to write later about judicial reform and restorative justice.\n\nNorton completed a GED and attended Orange Coast Community College. She sporadically sat in on classes at University of California, Los Angeles and University of California, Santa Barbara but was never formally enrolled.\n\nNorton began her professional life as a technologist when she worked as a SysAdmin and web programmer. In 2006, she shifted to journalism. Her focus was initially on technology but eventually grew to encompass internet activism.\n\nIn 2006, Norton described a conceptual prank called Quinn's Prank / Quinn's Symphonic Conundrum involving writing and executing a computer program that would output all possible melodies, theoretically providing the opportunity to claim copyright for all music.\n\nNorton's work has appeared in \"Wired\", where she spent a year embedded with Occupy Wall Street. She contributed regularly to the \"Wired\" blog, \"Threat Level,\" which focused on digital security. From 2013 to 2014, she wrote a column, \"Notes on a Strange World\", at Medium. She wrote articles for \"Maximum PC\" magazine for five years and has published in \"The Guardian,\" \"ProPublica,\" \"Gizmodo,\" and O'Reilly Media publications such as \"Make\" magazine. She was a long-time participant at O'Reilly's Foo Camp.\n\nNorton has spoken extensively on various aspects of technology, history and culture. From 2006 to 2008, she gave talks at technology conferences about body augmentation, usually under the title \"Body Hacking.\" In connection with this work, Norton taught a course at NYU titled \"Laboratory of the Self.\" As part of her research, Norton had a magnet implanted in the tip of her ring finger, enabling her to sense magnetic fields. The magnet was later removed.\n\nIn 2018, \"The New York Times\" announced Norton as its new lead opinion writer covering technology. The hire drew sharp criticism focused on tweets Norton wrote between 2013 and 2017, particularly use of slurs referring to gay people and her defense of her friendship with Andrew Auernheimer, a hacker and white supremacist known as weev. Later that day, she and the \"Times\" announced she would not join the paper after all; the \"Times\" said it had been unaware of her comments. Norton called the episode an example of \"context collapse\"; herself a member of the LGBT community, Norton said use of slurs had been specific to the context of engaging with the language of hackers. She also said her friendship with Auernheimer (with whom she was no longer in contact) had been an effort to discourage his racism. The incident led to debate over the ethics of free speech in the hacking community at large as well as \"Times\" social media policy.\n\nNorton is an advocate of encryption when communicating electronically.\n\nIn 2009, she opposed the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA).\n\nNorton describes herself as an anarchist and a queer activist.\n\nOn March 3, 2011, Norton was subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury regarding an investigation of her then-partner Aaron Swartz that led to the case \"United States v. Swartz.\" She ultimately accepted a proffer agreement with the prosecutor, whereby she shared information about the Guerrilla Open Access Manifesto, which defendant Aaron Swartz either wrote or co-wrote. The document offered the prosecution additional evidence in their case against Swartz.\n\nArticles in \"The Atlantic\" and in \"New York Magazine\" indicate that in 2011 Norton was pressured by prosecutors to offer information or testimony that could be used against Aaron Swartz in his trial for fraud for downloading thousands of academic articles from behind a paywall, but that she denied having information that supported prosecutors' claims of criminal intentions on Swartz's part. Prosecutors nevertheless attempted to use a public blog post on Swartz's blog that Norton mentioned, which may or may not have been co-authored by Swartz, as proof of a criminal intent.\n\nIn October 2017, Norton wrote a piece about Robert Scoble that described an alleged sexual assault by Scoble on Norton as well as another woman. Scoble denied what turned out to be multiple claims of assault, and said they were the result of his struggle with alcoholism. His response was met with a critical reaction.\n\nNorton was married to journalist Danny O'Brien. They have a daughter. The marriage ended in divorce.\n\nNorton dated computer programmer and activist Aaron Swartz for roughly three years, from 2007 until early 2011.\n\nIn 2016, Norton moved to Luxembourg to live with the man she eventually married in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "44521578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44521578", "title": "R M Turton &amp; Co (in liq) v Kerslake &amp; Partners", "text": "R M Turton &amp; Co (in liq) v Kerslake &amp; Partners\n\nR M Turton & Co (in liq) v Kerslake & Partners [2000] 3 NZLR 406 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding negligence claims in situations where a claim can be in both tort and contract.\n\nR M Turton were the head contractor for the Southland Health Board's building of the Queenstown hospital.\n\nThe SHB appointed the engineering firm Kerslake and Partners as the engineers for the build.\n\nTurton installed the air conditioning units that Kerslake specified for the build, however these units were not powerful enough for the building, requiring Turton to spend $75,000 to fix.\n\nTurton sued SHB for breach of contract, and Kerslake in tort.\n\nThe court dismissed Turton's appeal, as Kerslake did not owe Turton any duty of care.\n"}
{"id": "487787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487787", "title": "Railway Nationalization Act", "text": "Railway Nationalization Act\n\nThe brought many of Japan's private railway lines under national control. The 22nd Diet of Japan passed the bill on March 27, 1906 and Emperor Meiji signed on March 30, 1906. The promulgation of the act on the Official Gazette occurred the next day. The Act was repealed by Article 110 of the Act for Enforcement of Japanese National Railways Reform Act Etc. (Act No. 93 of 1986).\n\nThe original bill which passed the House of Representatives on March 16, 1906 listed 32 private railways to be nationalized, but the House of Peers amended the bill removing 15 companies from the list on March 27, 1906 and the House of Representatives accepted this amendment the same day.\n\nBetween 1906 and 1907, of track were purchased from 17 private railway companies. The national railway network grew to about of track, and private railways were relegated to providing local and regional services.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257410", "title": "Ralf Sieckmann v Deutsches Patent und Markenamt", "text": "Ralf Sieckmann v Deutsches Patent und Markenamt\n\nIn trademark law, Sieckmann v German Patent and Trademark Office (case C-273/00) issued on December 12, 2002, is widely recognised as a landmark decision of the European Court of Justice on the graphical representation of non-conventional trademarks under the European Trade Marks Directive.\n\nThe case involved a \"methyl cinnamate\" scent, which the applicant had described \"as balsamically fruity with a slight hint of cinnamon\". The ECJ ruled that (a) a chemical formula depicting this scent did not represent the odour of a substance, was not sufficiently intelligible, nor sufficiently clear and precise; (b) a written description was not sufficiently clear, precise and objective; and (c) a physical deposit of a sample of the scent did not constitute a graphic representation, and was not sufficiently stable or durable.\n\nThe case illustrates difficulties with the graphical representation of scent marks, as the ECJ held that these representations, whether individually or collectively, could not satisfy this requirement.\n\n"}
{"id": "47141518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47141518", "title": "Rivers State Civil Service", "text": "Rivers State Civil Service\n\nThe Rivers State Civil Service (RSCS) is the body of professional civil servants entrusted with the responsibility of carrying out the policies of the Rivers State government in relation to infrastructural development and social service delivery.\n\nThe body is led by the Head of Service (HOS), a member of the executive council, who is the most senior administrative official within the civil service of Rivers State. The civil servants are found mainly in the ministries and parastatals, where they perform their duties, progressing based on qualifications and seniority. The ministries are managed by Permanent Secretaries who report to Commissioners in the executive council.\n\nRSCS has the following functions:\n\n\nRSCS is constantly recruiting to find qualified candidates with the skills, educational qualifications and experience to enable it function effectively. The civil service also aims to provide opportunities for citizens to obtain employment. Free application forms are issued by the Rivers State Civil Service Commission to those who wish to become civil servants. Once filled and returned to the commission, the next step for the applicants is to wait to be interviewed. If found eligible, such persons are usually more likely to be employed.\n\nCertain core values exist within the civil service which all civil servants are expected to share and uphold. These core values are integrity, meritocracy, discipline, professionalism, patriotism, impartiality and secrecy of government information, except where the information divulged conforms with the Freedom of Information Act (FoI).\n"}
{"id": "8472808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8472808", "title": "Runyan v. State", "text": "Runyan v. State\n\nRunyan v. State, 57 Ind. 80 (1877), was an Indiana court case that argued natural law and a distinct American Mind to reject a duty to retreat when claiming self-defense in a homicide case. \n\nOn election night for the 1876 presidential race, John Runyan was harassed for being a Democrat by Charles Presnall when they were both in New Castle, Indiana. Runyan shot and killed him with his revolver even though he could have retreated.\n\nThe court implied it was un-American, writing of a referring to the distinct American mind, \"the tendency of the American mind seems to be very strongly against\" a duty to retreat. The court went further in saying that no statutory law could require a duty to retreat, because the right to stand one's ground is \"founded on the law of nature; and is not, nor can it be, superseded by any law of society.\"\n"}
{"id": "1632217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1632217", "title": "Rusty n Edie's BBS", "text": "Rusty n Edie's BBS\n\nRusty n Edie's BBS (\"Rusty-N-Edie's\") was a bulletin board system founded on May 11, 1987 by the two SysOps, Russell & Edwina Hardenburgh, of Boardman, Ohio. At one point the BBS had over 14,000 subscribers across the United States, Canada, and Europe (each paying an $89 annual membership fee) and over 124 modem lines.\n\nOn January 30, 1993, the system was raided by the FBI for software piracy after a several month investigation in cooperation with the Software Publishers Association (SPA). On March 11, 1993, a copyright infringement lawsuit was filed by Playboy Enterprises in response to 412 adult GIF images available for download, which had come from the pages of Playboy magazine, and had been scanned in. The case was dismissed on February 3, 1998 after a settlement was reached.\n"}
{"id": "29087880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29087880", "title": "Second Railway Package", "text": "Second Railway Package\n\nThe Second Railway Package is a group of European Union legislation which promote common standards and open access, working towards an integrated European railway area.\n\nFor much of the 20th century, rail transport in Europe was dominated by national monopolies; these effectively excluded competitors from their networks. Starting in 1991, the EU developed legislation to open railways up to competition, which would help them regain modal share from road and air transport.\n\n2004/49/EC is the Railway Safety Directive; it has since been amended by Directive 2008/110/EC. It harmonised safety principles, including procedures for granting safety approval to railway operators and infrastructure owners.\nDirective 2004/50/EC harmonised interoperability requirements, particularly for high-speed rail. It amended Directives 96/48 and 2001/16; it has since been updated by 2008/57/EC.\n\nDirective 2004/51/EC allowed open access for freight services, nationally and internationally, starting in January 2007\n\nRegulation 881/2004 created the European Railway Agency, to coordinate safety and interoperability efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46312568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46312568", "title": "Sew Hoy &amp; Sons Ltd (in liq and in rec) v Coopers &amp; Lybrand", "text": "Sew Hoy &amp; Sons Ltd (in liq and in rec) v Coopers &amp; Lybrand\n\nSew Hoy & Sons Ltd (in liq and in rec) v Coopers & Lybrand [1996] 1 NZLR 392 is a cited case regarding causation.\n\nSew Hoy & Sons Ltd was placed into receivership, and the receivers later discovered that the auditors Coopers and Lybrand had missed that the stock had been overvalued in its reports.\n\nAs result, the receivers argued that the auditors not detecting this, prevented the company from taking considering options such as taking \"mitigating steps\", or ceasing trading.\n\nThe receivers sued the auditors.\n\nThe court dismissed the claim, as the plaintiff had not established causation for the loss.\n"}
{"id": "4185071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4185071", "title": "Sickness Insurance (Industry) Convention, 1927", "text": "Sickness Insurance (Industry) Convention, 1927\n\nSickness Insurance (Industry) Convention, 1927 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1927:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to sickness insurance for workers in industry and commerce and domestic servants...\n\nThe principles contained in the convention were revised and included in ILO Convention C130.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 29 states. One state that has ratified, Uruguay, has subsequently denounced the convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "220419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220419", "title": "United Nations Convention against Torture", "text": "United Nations Convention against Torture\n\nThe Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (commonly known as the United Nations Convention against Torture (UNCAT)) is an international human rights treaty, under the review of the United Nations, that aims to prevent torture and other acts of cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment around the world.\n\nThe Convention requires states to take effective measures to prevent torture in any territory under their jurisdiction, and forbids states to transport people to any country where there is reason to believe they will be tortured.\n\nThe text of the Convention was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1984 and, following ratification by the 20th state party, it came into force on 26 June 1987. 26 June is now recognized as the International Day in Support of Victims of Torture, in honor of the Convention. Since the convention's entry into force, the absolute prohibition against torture and other acts of cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment has become accepted as a principle of customary international law. As of June 2018, the Convention has 164 state parties.\n\nThe Covenant follows the structure of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), with a preamble and 33 articles, divided into three parts:\n\nPart I (Articles 1–16) contains a definition of torture (Article 1), and commits parties to taking effective measures to prevent any act of torture in any territory under their jurisdiction (Article 2). These include ensuring that torture is a criminal offense under a party's municipal law (Article 4), establishing jurisdiction over acts of torture committed by or against a party's nationals (Article 5), ensuring that torture is an extraditable offense (Article 8), and establishing universal jurisdiction to try cases of torture where an alleged torturer cannot be extradited (Article 5). Parties must promptly investigate any allegation of torture (Articles 12 and 13), and victims of torture, or their dependents in case victims died as a result of torture, must have an enforceable right to compensation (Article 14). Parties must also ban the use of evidence produced by torture in their courts (Article 15), and are barred from deporting, extraditing, or refouling people where there are substantial grounds for believing they will be tortured (Article 3).\n\nParties are required to train and educate their law enforcement personnel, civilian or military personnel, medical personnel, public officials, and other persons involved in the custody, interrogation, or treatment of any individual subjected to any form of arrest, detention, or imprisonment, regarding the prohibition against torture (Article 10). Parties also must keep interrogation rules, instructions, methods, and practices under systematic review regarding individuals who are under custody or physical control in any territory under their jurisdiction, in order to prevent all acts of torture (Article 11).\n\nParties are also obliged to prevent all acts of cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment in any territory under their jurisdiction, and to investigate any allegation of such treatment. (Article 16).\n\nPart II (Articles 17–24) governs reporting and monitoring of the Convention and the steps taken by the parties to implement it. It establishes the Committee against Torture (Article 17), and empowers it to investigate allegations of systematic torture (Article 20). It also establishes an optional dispute-resolution mechanism between parties (Article 21) and allows parties to recognize the competence of the Committee to hear complaints from individuals about violations of the Convention by a party (Article 22).\n\nPart III (Articles 25–33) governs ratification, entry into force, and amendment of the Convention. It also includes an optional arbitration mechanism for disputes between parties (Article 30).\n\nArticle 1.1 of the Convention defines torture as: \n\nThe words \"inherent in or incidental to lawful sanctions\" remain vague and very broad. It is extremely difficult to determine what sanctions are 'inherent in or incidental to lawful sanctions' in a particular legal system and what are not. The drafters of the Convention neither provided any criteria for making such determination nor did it define the terms. The nature of the findings would so differ from one legal system to another that they would give rise to serious disputes among the Parties to the Convention. It was suggested that the reference to such rules would make the issue more complicated, for it would endow the rules with a semblance of legal binding force. This allows state parties to pass domestic laws that permit acts of torture that they believe are within the lawful sanctions clause. However, the most widely adopted interpretation of the lawful sanctions clause is that it refers to sanctions authorized by international law. Pursuant to this interpretation, only sanctions that are authorized by international law will fall within this exclusion. The interpretation of the lawful sanctions clause leaves no scope of application and is widely debated by authors, historians, and scholars alike.\n\nArticle 2 prohibits torture, and requires parties to take effective measures to prevent it in any territory under their jurisdiction. This prohibition is absolute and non-derogable. \"No exceptional circumstances whatsoever\" may be invoked to justify torture, including war, threat of war, internal political instability, public emergency, terrorist acts, violent crime, or any form of armed conflict. In other words, torture cannot be justified as a means to protect public safety or prevent emergencies. Subordinates who commits acts of torture cannot abstain themselves from legal responsibility on the grounds that they were just following orders from their superiors.\n\nThe prohibition on torture applies to anywhere under a party's effective jurisdiction inside or outside of its borders, whether on board its ships or aircraft or in its military occupations, military bases, peacekeeping operations, health care industries, schools, day care centers, detention centers, embassies, or any other of its areas, and protects all people under its effective control, regardless of nationality or how that control is exercised.\n\nThe other articles of part I lay out specific obligations intended to implement this absolute prohibition by preventing, investigating, and punishing acts of torture.\n\nArticle 3 prohibits parties from returning, extraditing, or \"refouling\" any person to a state \"where there are substantial grounds for believing that he would be in danger of being subjected to torture.\" The Committee against Torture has held that this danger must be assessed not just for the initial receiving state, but also to states to which the person may be subsequently expelled, returned or extradited.\n\nArticle 16 requires parties to prevent \"other acts of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment which do not amount to torture as defined in article 1\" in any territory under their jurisdiction. Because it is often difficult to distinguish between cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment and torture, the Committee regards Article 16's prohibition of such act as similarly absolute and non-derogable.\n\nThe Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OPCAT), adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 2002 and in force since 22 June 2006, provides for the establishment of \"a system of regular visits undertaken by independent international and national bodies to places where people are deprived of their liberty, in order to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment,\" to be overseen by a Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.\n\nAs of October 2016, the Protocol has 75 signatories and 83 parties.\n\nThe Committee against Torture (CAT) is a body of human rights experts that monitors implementation of the Convention by State parties. The Committee is one of eight UN-linked human rights treaty bodies. All state parties are obliged under the Convention to submit regular reports to the CAT on how rights are being implemented. Upon ratifying the Convention, states must submit a report within one year, after which they are obliged to report every four years. The Committee examines each report and addresses its concerns and recommendations to the State party in the form of \"concluding observations.\" Under certain circumstances, the CAT may consider complaints or communications from individuals claiming that their rights under the Convention have been violated.\n\nThe CAT usually meets in April/May and November each year in Geneva. Members are elected to four-year terms by State parties and can be re-elected if nominated. The current membership of the CAT, :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12895278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12895278", "title": "ViaStreaming", "text": "ViaStreaming\n\nViaStreaming Inc. is a Streaming Media Hosting Provider, as well as a Flash Media Server, SHOUTcast and Windows Media host. They are headquartered out of Jersey City, New Jersey, United States, where a Data Center is operated. The company was founded and opened on November 8, 2004.\n\nViaStreaming currently owns and operates private racks in 3 different Data Centers (USA-Europe): their multi-homed network is powered by premium Tier 1 network bandwidth featuring diverse path OC-48 fiber connectivity and they partnered with large internet bandwidth providers such as Time Warner Cable, Level3, NTT, AT&T and TeliaSonera using the AOL Bandwidth Internet Backbone, also through several direct peerings. The servers of their Content Delivery Network CDN are each connected to a 10Gbit/s dedicated switch.\n\nViaStreaming has grown to over 2,000 users, making them one of the most active audio stream hosts available on the internet. Currently they offer dedicated servers in mp3, Aacplus, Flash Media Server and Windows Media formats in USA and Europe.\nViaStreaming (CrossDigital Ltd.) also owns and operates another brand: ViaMobileApps that develops custom audio & video streaming apps for Smartphones and Tablets mobile devices (Android, iOS, Research In Motion).\n\n"}
{"id": "703112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=703112", "title": "William Borah", "text": "William Borah\n\nWilliam Edgar Borah (June 29, 1865 – January 19, 1940) was an outspoken Republican United States Senator, one of the best-known figures in Idaho's history. A progressive who served from 1907 until his death in 1940, Borah is often considered an isolationist, for he led the Irreconcilables, senators who would not accept the Treaty of Versailles, Senate ratification of which would have made the U.S. part of the League of Nations.\n\nBorah was born in rural Illinois to a large farming family. He studied at the University of Kansas and became a lawyer in that state before seeking greater opportunities in Idaho. He quickly rose in the law and in state politics, and after a failed run for the House of Representatives in 1896 and one for the United States Senate in 1903, was elected to the Senate in 1907. Before he took his seat in December of that year, he was involved in two prominent legal cases. One, the murder conspiracy trial of Big Bill Haywood, gained Borah fame though Haywood was found not guilty and the other, a prosecution of Borah for land fraud, made him appear a victim of political malice even before his acquittal.\n\nIn the Senate, Borah became one of the progressive insurgents who challenged President William Howard Taft's policies, though Borah refused to support former president Theodore Roosevelt's third-party bid against Taft in 1912. Borah reluctantly voted for war in 1917 and, once it concluded, he fought against the Versailles treaty, and the Senate did not ratify it. Remaining a maverick, Borah often fought with the Republican presidents in office between 1921 and 1933, though Coolidge offered to make Borah his running mate in 1924. Borah campaigned for Hoover in 1928, something he rarely did for presidential candidates and never did again.\n\nDeprived of his post as Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee when the Democrats took control of the Senate in 1933, Borah agreed with some of the New Deal legislation, but opposed other proposals. He ran for the Republican nomination for president in 1936, but party regulars were not inclined to allow a longtime maverick to head the ticket. In his final years, he felt he might be able to settle differences in Europe by meeting with Hitler; though he did not go, this has not enhanced his historical reputation. Borah died in 1940; his statue, presented by the state of Idaho in 1947, stands in the National Statuary Hall Collection.\n\nWilliam Edgar Borah was born in Jasper Township, Illinois, near Fairfield in Wayne County. His parents were farmers Elizabeth (West) and William Nathan Borah. Borah was distantly related to Katharina von Bora, the Catholic nun who left her convent in the 16th century and married reformer Martin Luther. His Borah ancestors came to America in about 1760, fought in the Revolutionary War, and moved west with the frontier. The young William E. Borah was the seventh of ten children, and the third son.\n\nAlthough Borah was not a good student, at an early age he began to love oratory and the written word. Borah was educated at Tom's Prairie School, near Fairfield. When Borah exhausted its rudimentary resources, his father sent him in 1881 to Southern Illinois Academy, a Cumberland Presbyterian academy at Enfield, to train for the ministry. The 63 students there included two future U.S. senators, Borah and Wesley Jones, who would represent the state of Washington; the two often debated as schoolboys. Instead of becoming a preacher, Borah was in 1882 expelled for hitching rides on the Illinois Central to spend the night in the town of Carmi. \n\nHe ran away from home with an itinerant Shakespearean company, but his father persuaded him to return. In his late teenage years, he became interested in the law, and later stated, \"I can't remember when I didn't want to be a lawyer ... there is no other profession where one can be absolutely independent\".\n\nWith his father finally accepting his ambition to be a lawyer rather than a clergyman, Borah in 1883 went to live with his sister Sue in Lyons, Kansas; her husband, Ansel M. Lasley, was an attorney. Borah initially worked as a teacher, but became so engrossed in historical topics at the town library that he was ill-prepared for class; he and the school parted ways. In 1885 Borah enrolled at the University of Kansas, and rented an inexpensive room in a professor's home in Lawrence; he studied alongside students who would become prominent, such as William Allen White and Fred Funston. Borah was working his way through college, but his plans were scuttled when he contracted tuberculosis in early 1887. He had to return to Lyons, where his sister nursed him to health, and he began to read law under his brother-in-law Lasley's supervision. Borah passed the bar examination in September 1887, and went into partnership with his brother-in-law.\n\nThe mayor of Lyons appointed Borah as city attorney in 1889, but the young lawyer felt that he was destined for bigger things than a small Kansas town suffering in the hard times that persisted on the prairie in the late 1880s and early 1890s. Following the advice attributed to Horace Greeley, Borah chose to go west and grow up with the country. In October 1890, uncertain of his destination, he boarded the Union Pacific Railroad in Omaha. On the advice of a gambler on board the train, Borah decided to settle in Boise, Idaho. His biographer, Marian C. McKenna, said that Boise was \"as far west as his pocketbook would take him\".\n\nIdaho had been admitted to the Union earlier in 1890, and Boise, the state capital, was a boom town, where the police and courts were not yet fully effective. Borah's first case was referred to him by a gambler; he was asked to defend a man accused of murder for shooting a Chinese immigrant in the back. Borah gained an unasked-for dismissal when the judge decided that killing a Chinese male was at worst manslaughter. Borah prospered in Boise, both in law and in politics. In 1892 he became head of the Republican State Central Committee. He served as political secretary to Governor William J. McConnell. In 1895 Borah married the governor's daughter, Mary McConnell. They were married until Borah's death, but had no children together.\n\nIdaho, a mining state, was fraught with labor tensions, and related violence was common by both employers and workers. In 1899, there was a strike, and a large group of miners dynamited facilities belonging to a mining company that refused to recognize the union. They had hijacked a train to travel to destroy the company's plant. Someone in the mob shot and killed a strikebreaker. Governor Frank Steunenberg declared martial law and had more than one thousand miners arrested. Paul Corcoran, secretary of the union, was charged with murder. Borah was engaged as a prosecutor in a trial that began at Wallace on July 8, 1899. Prosecution witnesses testified to having seen Corcoran sitting on top of the train, rifle in hand, and later leaping to the platform. The defense contended that, given the sharp curves and rough roadbed of the rail line, no one could have sat on top of the train, nor jumped from it without severe injury. Borah took the jury to the train line and demonstrated how Corcoran could have acted. He drew on his skills as a teenage rail rider to ride the top of the train, and jump from it to the platform without injury. Corcoran was convicted, but his death sentence was commuted. He was pardoned in 1901, after Steunenberg left office. Borah gained wide acclaim for his dramatic prosecution of the case.\n\nIn 1896, Borah joined many Idahoans, including Senator Fred Dubois, in bolting the Republican Party to support the presidential campaign of Democrat William Jennings Bryan—free silver, which Bryan advocated, was extremely popular in Idaho. Borah thus became a Silver Republican in opposition to the campaign of the Republican presidential candidate, former Ohio governor William McKinley. Borah ran for the House of Representatives that year, but knew that with the silver vote split between himself and a Democrat-Populist fusion candidate, he had little chance of winning. He concentrated on making speeches aimed at gaining a legislature that would re-elect Dubois—until 1913, state legislatures chose senators. Bryan, Dubois, and Borah were all defeated.\n\nIn 1898, Borah supported the Spanish–American War and remained loyal to the Silver Republicans. By 1900, Borah deemed the silver issue of minimal importance due to increased gold production and national prosperity. With other former silverites, he made an unapologetic return to the Republican Party. He made speeches for McKinley, who was re-elected. Bryan, however, took Idaho's electoral votes for a second time. Dubois, though nominally remaining a Silver Republican, gained control of the state Democratic Party, and was returned to the US Senate by the Idaho Legislature.\n\nBorah's legal practice had made him prominent in southern Idaho, and in 1902 he sought election to the Senate. By this time, a united Republican Party was deemed likely to defeat the Democratic/Populist combine that had ruled Idaho for the past six years. The 1902 Idaho state Republican convention showed that Borah had, likely, the most support among the people, but the choice of senator was generally dictated by the caucus of the majority party in the legislature. In the 1902 election, Republicans retook control, electing a governor of their party, as well as the state's only House member and a large majority in the legislature. Three other Republicans were seeking the Senate seat, including Weldon B. Heyburn, a mining lawyer from the northern part of the state. When the legislature met in early 1903, Borah led on early caucus ballots, but then the other candidates withdrew and backed Heyburn; he was chosen by the caucus, and then by the legislature. There were many rumors of corruption in the choice of Heyburn, and Borah determined that the defeat would not end his political career. He decided to seek the seat of Senator Dubois (by then a Democrat) when it was filled by the legislature in early 1907.\n\nAt the state convention at Pocatello in 1904, Borah made a speech in support of the election of Theodore Roosevelt for a full term as president, which was widely applauded. But the Old Guard Republicans in Idaho opposed him and they were determined to defeat Borah in his second bid for the Senate. The same year, Dubois damaged his prospects for a third term by his opposition to the appointment of H. Smith Woolley, a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (many Idahoans adhered to that faith), as assayer-in-charge of the United States Assay Office at Boise. Dubois had advanced politically through anti-Mormonism in the 1880s, but the issue was more or less dead in Idaho by 1904. Woolley was confirmed by the U.S. Senate despite Dubois's opposition, and Rufus G. Cook, in his article on the affair, suggested that Dubois was baited into acting by Borah and his supporters. The result was that Borah attacked Dubois for anti-Mormonism in both 1904 and 1906, which played well in the heavily Mormon counties in southeast Idaho.\n\nBorah campaigned to end the caucus's role in selecting the Republican nominee for Senate, arguing that it should be decided by the people, in a convention. He drafted a resolution based on the one passed by the 1858 Illinois Republican convention that had endorsed Abraham Lincoln for Senate in his unsuccessful race against Stephen Douglas. He made a deal with a potential Republican rival, Governor Frank Gooding, whereby Borah would be nominated for Senate and Gooding for re-election and on August 1, 1906, both men received the state convention's endorsement by acclamation. Dubois was the Democratic choice, and Borah campaigned in support of President Roosevelt, argued that Republicans had brought the nation prosperity, and urged law and order. Voters re-elected Gooding, and selected a Republican legislature, which in January 1907 retired Dubois by electing Borah to the Senate.\n\nBorah presented his credentials at the Senate prior to the formal beginning of his first term on March 4, 1907. Until 1933, Congress's regular session began in December, allowing Borah time to participate in two major trials. One of these boosted him to national prominence for his role in the prosecution of Big Bill Haywood, and the other, with Borah as the defendant, placed him at risk of going to prison. \n\nHaywood was tried for conspiracy in the murder of ex-governor Steunenberg, who was assassinated on December 30, 1905 by a bomb planted on the gate at his home in Caldwell. Borah, who viewed Steunenberg as a father figure, was among the prominent Idahoans who hurried to Caldwell, and who viewed Steunenberg's shattered body and the bloodstained snow. Suspicion quickly fell on a man registered at a local hotel who proved to be Harry Orchard, an explosives expert and assassin. Many labor leaders were embittered against Steunenberg for his actions while in office, and Orchard implicated four of them. The three who could be found, including Haywood, were extradited from Colorado to Idaho in February 1906. As the legal challenges wended through the courts, the case became a campaign issue both for Gooding, who had signed the extradition warrant, and for Borah, who joined the prosecution team and stated that trying the case was more important to him than being sent to the Senate.\n\nWhile the Haywood defendants awaited trial, Borah and others were indicted in federal court for land fraud, having to do with the acquisition by the Barber Lumber Company (for which Borah had been counsel) of title to timber land claims. Individuals had filed for the claims, and then sold them to the Barber Company, although they had sworn that the claims were for their own use. United States Attorney for Idaho, Norman M. Ruick, had expanded the grand jury from 12 members to 22 before he could get a majority vote to indict Borah (by a 12—10 margin). The indictment was perceived to be political, with Ruick acting on behalf of Idaho Republicans who had lost state party leadership to the new senator. Roosevelt took a wait-and-see attitude, upsetting Borah, who considered resigning his Senate seat even if exonerated.\n\nHaywood was the first tried of the three defendants; jury selection began on May 9, 1907 and proceedings in Boise continued for over two months. The courtroom, corridors, and even the lawn outside were often filled. Counsel for the prosecution included Borah and future governor James H. Hawley; famed attorney Clarence Darrow led the defense team. A highlight of the trial was Borah's cross-examination of Haywood, who denied personal animus against Steunenberg and any connection with the death. Another was Borah's final argument for the prosecution in rebuttal to Darrow on July 25 and 26. \n\nBorah recalled the night of the ex-governor's murder:\nAlthough Darrow won the day, gaining an acquittal for Haywood, the trial transformed Borah from an obscure freshman senator into a national figure. But Borah still had to face a jury on the land fraud charge, which he did in September 1907, a trial held then at Roosevelt's insistence—Ruick had asked for more time, but Borah wanted the matter disposed of before Congress met in December. Borah refused to challenge the indictment. At the trial, his counsel allowed Ruick free rein; the judge commented on Ruick's inability to tie Borah to any offense. The defense case consisted almost entirely of Borah's testimony, and the jury quickly acquitted him, setting off wild celebrations in Boise. Roosevelt dismissed Ruick as US Attorney in 1908.\n\nWhen Borah went to Washington for the Senate's regular session in December 1907, he was immediately a figure of note, not only for the dramatic events in Idaho, but for keeping his Western habits, including wearing a ten-gallon hat. It was customary then for junior senators to wait perhaps a year before giving their maiden speech, but at Roosevelt's request, in April 1908, Borah spoke in defense of the president's dismissal of more than 100 African-American soldiers in the Brownsville Affair in Texas. The cause of their innocence had been pressed by the fiery Ohio senator, Joseph B. Foraker. The soldiers were accused of having shot up a Texas town near their military camp. Borah said that their alleged actions were as wrongful as the murder of Steunenberg. The accusations were later re-investigated. The government concluded that the soldiers had been accused because of racist officials in the town and, in 1972, long after the deaths of Roosevelt, Borah, and most of the soldiers, their dishonorable discharges from the military were reversed.\n\nRepublican leaders had heard that Borah was an attorney for corporations, who had prosecuted labor leaders; they believed him sympathetic to their Old Guard positions and assigned him to important committees. Borah believed in the rights of unions, so long as they did not commit violent acts. When Borah staked out progressive positions after his swearing-in, Rhode Island Senator Nelson Aldrich, the powerful chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, hoped to put pressure on him through the Westerner's corporate clients, only to find that he had given up those representations before coming to Washington. Borah became one of a growing number of progressive Republicans in the Senate. Yet, Borah often opposed liberal legislation, finding fault with it or fearing it would increase the power of the federal government. Throughout his years in the Senate, in which he would serve until his death in 1940, his idiosyncratic positions would limit his effectiveness as a reformer.\n\nAfter Roosevelt's hand-picked successor as president, former Secretary of War William Howard Taft, was inaugurated in March 1909, Congress battled over what became the Payne–Aldrich Tariff. At the time, tariffs were the main source of government revenue, and conflicts over them were passionate. The party platform had promised tariff reform, which progressive insurgents like Borah took to mean tariff reductions. Old Guard legislators like Senator Aldrich disagreed, and the final version actually raised rates by about one percent. The battles alienated Borah from Taft, who in a speech at Winona, Minnesota described the new law as the best tariff the country had ever had. Borah and other progressives had proposed an income tax to be attached to the tariff bill; when this was unacceptable to Taft, who feared the Supreme Court would strike it down again, Borah repackaged it as a constitutional amendment, which passed the Senate unanimously and then the House, and to the surprise of many, passed the requisite number of state legislatures by 1913 to become the Sixteenth Amendment. \n\nBorah also had a hand in the other constitutional amendment to be ratified in 1913, the Seventeenth Amendment, providing for the direct election of senators by the people. In 1909, due to Borah's influence, the Idaho Legislature passed an act for a statewide election for US senators, with legislators in theory bound to choose the winner. By 1912 over 30 states had similar laws. Borah promoted the amendment in the Senate in 1911 and 1912 until it passed Congress and, after a year, it was ratified by the states. With the power to elect senators having passed to the people, according to McKenna, the popular Borah \"secured for himself a life option on a seat in the Senate\".\n\nBorah opposed Taft over a number of issues and in March 1912 announced his support of the candidacy of Roosevelt over Taft for the Republican presidential nomination. Most delegates to the 1912 Republican National Convention in Chicago selected by primary supported Roosevelt, but as most states held conventions to select delegates, Taft's control of the party machinery gave him the advantage. A number of states, especially in the South, had contested delegate seats, matters which would be initially settled by the Republican National Committee. Borah was Idaho's Republican National Committeeman and was one of those designated by the Roosevelt campaign to fight for it on the RNC. As Taft controlled the committee, Borah found few victories. Borah was among those who tried to find a compromise candidate, and was spoken of for that role, but all such efforts failed.\n\nWhen it became clear Taft would be renominated, Roosevelt and his supporters bolted the party; the former president asked Borah to chair the organizational meeting of his new Progressive Party, but the Idahoan refused. Borah would not countenance leaving the Republican Party and did not support any of the presidential candidates (the Democrats nominated New Jersey Governor Woodrow Wilson). When Roosevelt came to Boise on a campaign swing in October, Borah felt he had to greet the former president and sit on the platform as Roosevelt spoke, though he was unwilling to endorse him. Roosevelt told in his speech of a long list of state delegate votes he said had been stolen from him, and after each, turned to Borah and asked, \"Isn't that so, Senator Borah?\" giving him no choice but to nod. It is not clear whether Borah voted for Roosevelt or Taft, he later stated both at different times. The main issue in Idaho was Borah's re-election, which was so popular that those disgruntled at the senator for not supporting Taft or Roosevelt kept quiet. Idahoans helped elect Wilson, but sent 80 Republican legislators out of 86 to Boise (with two of the six Democrats pledged to support Borah if necessary), who on January 14, 1913 returned William Borah for a second term.\n\nThe Republicans both lost the presidency with Wilson's inauguration and went into the minority in the Senate. In the reshuffle of committee assignments that followed, Borah was given a seat on Foreign Relations. He would occupy it for the next quarter century, becoming one of America's leading figures on international affairs.\n\nBorah generally approved of many of Wilson's proposals, but found reasons to vote against them. He voted against the Federal Reserve Act of 1913, after gaining a concession that no banker would initially be appointed to the Federal Reserve Board. Borah believed monopolies, public and private, should be broken up, and believed the new Federal Trade Commission would prove a means for trusts to control their regulators; he voted against the bill and stated he would not support confirmation of the first commissioners. The Clayton Antitrust Act, Borah opined, was merely a means by which Congress could appear to be dealing with the trusts without actually doing so.\n\nIn 1913 and early 1914, Borah clashed with Wilson and his Secretary of State, Bryan, over Latin American policy. Borah believed that there was an ongoing temptation for the U.S. to expand into Latin America, which the construction of the Panama Canal had made worse. If the U.S. did so, the local population would have to be subjugated or incorporated into the American political structure, neither of which he deemed possible. Believing that nations should be left unmolested by greater powers, Borah decried American interference in Latin American governments; he and Wilson clashed over policy towards Mexico, then in the throes of revolution. Wilson decided that the Mexican government, led by Victoriano Huerta, must pledge elections in which Huerta would not run before being recognized. Although Borah disliked Huerta as too close to the pre-revolutionary leadership, he felt that Mexicans should decide who ran Mexico, and argued against Wilson's plan.\n\nAfter World War I began in 1914, it was Borah's view that the U.S. should keep completely out of it and he voted for legislation requested by Wilson barring armament shipments to the belligerents. Borah was disquieted when Wilson permitted credits to Great Britain and France after refusing them loans, as the credits served the same purpose, furthering the war. He was vigilant in support of the neutral rights of the United States, and was outraged both by the 1915 sinking of the \"Lusitania\" by the Germans and by infringements against Americans by British forces. Borah was spoken of as a possible candidate for president in 1916, but gained little support: the Old Guard disliked him almost as much as they did Roosevelt, while others questioned whether a man so free from the discipline of the party could lead its ranks. Borah stated he lacked the money to run. He did work behind the scenes to find a candidate that would reunite the Republicans and holdout Progressives: a member of a joint committee of the two parties' conventions to seek re-unification, Borah achieved a friendly reception when he addressed the Progressive convention. The Republicans nominated Charles Evans Hughes, and Progressive leaders reluctantly backed him, but some former Roosevelt supporters refused to support Hughes. Borah campaigned for the Republican presidential candidate (something he would do only once more, for Hoover in 1928), but Wilson narrowly won re-election.\n\nAfter Germany resumed unlimited submarine warfare in early 1917, many considered U.S. entry into the war inevitable, though Borah expressed hope it might still be avoided. Nevertheless, he supported Wilson on legislation to arm merchant ships, and voted in favor when the president requested a declaration of war in April 1917. He made it clear that in his view, the U.S. was going in to defend its own rights and had no common interest with the Allies beyond the defeat of the Central Powers. He repeated this often through the war: the United States sought no territory, and had no interest in French and British desires for territory and colonies. Borah, though a strong war supporter, was possibly the most prominent wartime advocate of progressive views, opposing the draft and the Espionage Act of 1917, and pressing Wilson for statements of limited war aims. Borah's term was to expire in 1919; never a wealthy person and hard-hit by the high cost of living in wartime Washington, he considered leaving the Senate and practicing law in a major New York firm. However, he felt needed in the Senate and in Idaho, as both of the state's seats would be up for election in November 1918 due to the death of Borah's junior colleague, James H. Brady. Even President Wilson urged Borah's re-election in a letter to former senator Dubois. Borah received two-thirds of the vote in his bid for a third term, while former governor Gooding narrowly won Brady's seat. Nationally, the Republicans retook control of the Senate with a 49–47 majority.\n\nThat the war would not last long beyond the election was clear in the final days of the 1918 congressional midterm election campaign, which was fought in part to decide which party would control the postwar peace process. Wilson hoped for a treaty based on the Fourteen Points and had urged formation of a postwar organization to assure peace. Borah, well aware the U.S. would play a large role at the peace table, saw such an organization as a trap that would inevitably involve the U.S. whenever conflict developed in Europe. He decided to oppose Wilson's plan despite his personal admiration for the president. \nLike many Westerners, Borah held agrarian ideals, and linked them with a policy of isolationism and avoiding foreign entanglements he believed had served the nation well. Borah took pains, throughout the battle, to stress that he had opposed the principle of a league before it became a partisan issue; according to McKenna, in Borah's League fight, \"of partisanship, jealousy, or personal hostility there is no trace\".\nRepublicans felt Wilson was making a political issue of the peace, especially when the president urged a Democratic Congress prior to the 1918 election, and attended the Paris Peace Conference in person, taking no Republicans on his delegation. Wilson had felt his statement was the only chance of getting a Senate that might ratify a treaty for a postwar organization to keep the peace, and deemed conciliation pointless. In Paris, Wilson and other leaders negotiated what would become the League of Nations, an international organization that world leaders hoped that through diplomacy, and if necessary, force, would assure peace. Republican senatorial opinion ranged from the Irreconcilables like Borah, who would not support any organization, to those who strongly favored one; none wanted Wilson to go into the 1920 presidential election with credit for having sorted out Europe. Once the general terms of the Treaty of Versailles, which included the Charter of the League of Nations, were presented by Wilson in February 1919, Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts, the incoming Senate Majority Leader, decided on a strategy: rather than outright opposition, Republicans would offer reservations to the treaty that Wilson could not accept.\n\nA week after Wilson presented the treaty, Borah declined an invitation to the White House extended to him and other Senate and House members on the foreign relations committees, alleging there was no chance of common ground, though he wrote to Wilson's private secretary that no insult was intended. In the following months, Borah was a leader of the Irreconcilables. An especial target was Article X of the charter, obligating all members to defend each other's independence. The Irreconcilables argued that this would commit the U.S. to war without its consent; Borah stated that the U.S. might be forced to send thousands of men if there was conflict in Armenia. Other provisions were examined; Borah proposed that the U.S. representatives in Paris be asked to press the issue of Irish independence, but the Senate took no action. Borah found the provisions of the treaty regarding Germany to be shocking in their vindictiveness, and feared they might snuff out the new Weimar Republic at birth.\n\nThe small Republican majority in the Senate made Irreconcilable votes necessary to Lodge's strategy, and he met with Borah in April 1919, persuading him to go along with the plan of delay and reservations as the most likely to succeed, as it would allow the initial popular support for Wilson's proposal to diminish. Neither senator really liked or trusted the other, but they formed a wary pact to defeat the treaty. Lodge was also chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and he delayed the treaty by convening a lengthy series of hearings, presiding over a committee packed with Irreconcilables, including Borah. As these hearings continued in the summer of 1919, Wilson undertook a speaking tour by train to get the public to press the Senate for ratification, a tour that ended in his collapse. In the months that followed, an ailing Wilson refused any compromise.\n\nBorah helped write the majority report for the committee, recommending 45 amendments and 4 reservations. In November 1919, the Senate defeated both versions of the Treaty of Versailles, with and without what were called the Lodge reservations. Borah, delighted, proclaimed the day the greatest since the end of the Civil War. The following January, the Senate considered the treaty again and Lodge wanted to convene a bipartisan group of senators to find a compromise. Borah, threatening party schism, met with Lodge behind closed doors, and Lodge withdrew his plan. The Senate voted once more, in March 1920, on the treaty with a version of the Lodge reservations, and it failed again. According to Robert James Maddox in his book on Borah's influence on American foreign policy, the Irreconcilables \"dictated to the majority leader as though they were the majority. Borah as much as any man deserves the credit—or the blame—for the League's defeat\".\n\nBorah was determined to see that the Republican presidential candidate in 1920 was not pro-League. He supported his fellow Irreconcilable, California Senator Hiram Johnson, who had been Roosevelt's running mate in 1912. Borah alleged bribery on the part of the leading candidate for the Republican nomination, General Leonard Wood, and was snubbed when he demanded to know the League views of Wood's main rival, Illinois Governor Frank Lowden. When the 1920 Republican National Convention met in Chicago in June, delegates faced a deadlock both as to who should head the ticket, and as to the contents of the League plank of the party platform. The League fight was decided, with Borah's endorsement, by using language proposed by former Secretary of State Elihu Root supporting \"a\" league, rather than \"the\" League. The presidential stalemate was harder to resolve. A hater both of political intrigue and of tobacco, Borah played no part in the smoke-filled room discussions as the Republicans attempted to break the deadlock. He was initially unenthusiastic about the eventual nominee, Ohio Senator Warren G. Harding, his colleague on the Foreign Relations Committee, as he was disappointed at the failure of Johnson's candidacy and disliked Harding's vague stance on the League. Nevertheless, Borah strongly endorsed Harding and his running mate, Massachusetts Governor Calvin Coolidge, who were victorious. Borah later stated he would have left the Senate had Harding lost.\n\nBorah proved as idiosyncratic as ever in his views with Harding as president. The original idea for the Washington Naval Conference of 1921–22 came from a resolution he introduced in December 1920. After the new Secretary of State, Charles Hughes, took the idea, Borah became an opponent, convinced the conference would lead the United States into the League of Nations through the back door. In 1921, when Harding nominated former president Taft as chief justice, Borah was one of four senators to oppose confirmation. Borah stated that Taft, at 63, was too old and as a politician had been absent for decades from the practice of law. In 1922 and 1923, Borah spoke against passage of the Dyer Anti-Lynching Bill, which had passed the House. A strong supporter of state sovereignty, he believed that punishing state officials for failure to prevent lynchings was unconstitutional, and that if the states could not prevent such murders, federal legislation would do no good. The bill was defeated by filibuster in the Senate by Southern Democrats. When another bill was introduced in 1935 and 1938, Borah continued to speak against it, by that time saying that it was no longer needed, as the number of lynchings had dropped sharply.\n\nHarding's death in August 1923 brought Calvin Coolidge to the White House. Borah had been dismayed by Harding's conservative views, and believed Coolidge had shown liberal tendencies while governor. He met with Coolidge multiple times in late 1923, and found the new president interested in his ideas on policies foreign and domestic. Borah was encouraged when Coolidge included in his annual message to Congress a suggestion that he might open talks with the Soviet Union on trade—the Bolshevik government had not been recognized since the 1917 October Revolution and Borah had long urged relations. Under pressure from the Old Guard, Coolidge quickly walked back his proposal, depressing Borah, who concluded the president had deceived him. In early 1924, the Teapot Dome scandal broke, and although Coolidge had no involvement in the affair, some of the implicated cabinet officers, including Attorney General Harry Daugherty, remained in office, backed by the Old Guard. Coolidge sought the support of Borah in the crisis; his price was Daugherty's firing. The president stalled Borah, and when Daugherty eventually resigned under pressure, it was due more to events than Borah. When the president was nominated for election in his own right at the 1924 Republican National Convention, he offered the vice presidential nomination to Borah. By one account, when Coolidge asked Borah to join the ticket, the senator asked which position on it he was to occupy. The prospect of Borah as vice president appalled Coolidge's cabinet members and other Republican officials, and they were relieved when he refused. Borah spent less than a thousand dollars on his Senate re-election campaign that fall, and gained a fourth term with just under 80 percent of the vote. Coolidge and his vice-presidential choice, Charles G. Dawes easily won, though Borah did no campaigning for the Coolidge/Dawes ticket, alleging his re-election bid required his full attention.\n\nSenator Lodge died in November 1924, making Borah the senior member of the Foreign Relations Committee, and he took its chairmanship. He could have become Judiciary Committee chairman instead, as the death of Frank Brandegee of Connecticut made Borah senior Republican on that committee as well. The Foreign Relations chairmanship greatly increased his influence, one quip was that the new Secretary of State, Frank B. Kellogg, created policy by ringing Borah's doorbell. Borah continued to oppose American interventions in Latin America, often splitting from the Republican majority over the matter. Borah was an avid horseback rider, and Coolidge is supposed to have commented after viewing him exercising in Rock Creek Park that it \"must bother the Senator to be going in the same direction as his horse\".\n\nBorah was involved through the 1920s in efforts for the outlawry of war. Chicago lawyer Salmon Levinson, who had formulated the plan to outlaw war, labored long to get the mercurial Borah on board as its spokesman. Maddox suggested that Borah was most enthusiastic about this plan when he needed it as a constructive alternative to defeat actions such as entry into the World Court, that he deemed entangling the U.S. abroad. By the time of the 1924 election, Levinson was frustrated with Borah, but Coolidge's statement after the election that outlawry was one of the issues he proposed to address, briefly resurrected Borah's enthusiasm. only to have it fall away again. It was not until 1927, when French Foreign Minister Aristide Briand proposed the U.S. and his nation enter into an agreement to \"outlaw war\" that Borah became interested again, though it took months of pestering by Levinson. In December 1927, Borah introduced a resolution calling for a multilateral version of Briand's proposal, and once the Kellogg–Briand Pact was negotiated and signed by various nations, secured ratification for that treaty by the Senate.\n\nBorah hoped to be elected president in 1928, but his only chance was a deadlocked Republican convention. He was reluctant to support Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover for president, backing Ohio Senator Frank Willis instead, but after Willis collapsed and died at a campaign rally in late March, Borah began to find Hoover more to his liking. The Idahoan's support for Hoover became more solid as the campaign began to shape as a rural/urban divide. Borah was a strong backer of Prohibition, and the fact that Hoover was another \"dry\" influenced Borah in his support; the senator disliked the Democratic candidate, New York Governor Al Smith, an opponent of Prohibition, considering him a creature of Tammany Hall. Though Montana Senator Thomas J. Walsh commented on \"Borah's recent conversion to Hoover\", and some progressives were disheartened, Borah undertook a lengthy campaign tour, warning that he saw \"the success of Tammany in national politics as nothing less than a national disaster\". Hoover was elected and thanked Borah for \"the enormous effect\" of his support. He offered to make Borah Secretary of State, though deploring the loss to the Senate, but Borah declined.\nBorah was not personally harmed by the stock market crash of October 1929, having sold any stocks and invested in government bonds. Thousands of Americans had borrowed on margin, and were ruined by the crash. Congress in June 1930 passed the Hawley–Smoot Tariff, sharply increasing rates on imports. Borah was one of 12 Republicans who joined Democrats in opposing the bill, which passed the Senate 44–42. Borah was up for election in 1930, and despite a minimal campaign effort, took over 70 percent of the vote in a bad year for Republicans. When he returned to Washington for the lame-duck session of the Senate beginning in December, Borah pressed the passage of legislation that would help business and suggested that members of Congress turn back their salary to the Treasury. The economy continued to worsen in the winter of 1931, and Borah urged relief legislation, stating that opponents argued \"that for the Government to feed this woman and her sick children would destroy her self respect and make a bad citizen of her. Does \"anyone\" believe it? It is a cowardly imputation on the helpless. I resent it and I repudiate it.\"\n\nWhen Congress reconvened in December 1931, the Republicans nominally controlled the Senate by the tie-breaking vote of Vice President Charles Curtis, but, as Hoover later wrote, there was no real majority as Borah and other progressives were against the administration. After the Bonus Army marched on Washington, Borah and Hoover agreed that no action should be taken on their demands so long as the ex-soldiers remained in the capital. Borah considered their presence intimidating to Congress, but was angered when they were forcibly dispersed.\n\nBorah considered challenging Hoover for renomination in 1932, but concluded the president's control over the party machinery, especially in the South, could not be overcome. Borah disagreed with the platform of the 1932 Republican National Convention over Prohibition; after the party passed a vague compromise plank and renominated Hoover, Borah made a major address on June 30, gaining nationwide attention by attacking his party's platform for forty minutes. Between then and November, he rarely mentioned Hoover's name publicly, though he said late in the campaign that he would vote for the president. He made speeches discussing issues, not candidates, and did nothing to aid Hoover's doomed campaign against Franklin D. Roosevelt. When some Idahoans demanded that he support Hoover on pain of being opposed for renomination for Senate in 1936, Borah responded that he regretted if his quarter century in the Senate had left them with the impression he might be moved by such an ultimatum.\n\nThe Democratic landslide that accompanied Roosevelt's election cost Borah his chairmanship of the Foreign Relations Committee, but much of his influence was independent of party. Borah liked Roosevelt for his liberalism and his energy. Due to illness, Borah took only a limited role in Roosevelt's Hundred Days, though he did play a key part in the passage of Glass–Steagall in June 1933, helping forge a compromise that ended the opponents' filibuster. He opposed Roosevelt's calling in of gold, alleging that the government had no power to tell individuals what to do with their money. Borah opposed the National Recovery Act (NRA) and was gratified when it was struck down by the Supreme Court in 1935. Borah's fifteen-year fight for the recognition of the USSR ended in 1933 when Roosevelt opened diplomatic relations.\n\nBorah ran for the Republican nomination for president in the primaries preceding the 1936 Republican National Convention, the first from Idaho to do so. His candidacy was opposed by the conservative Republican leadership. Borah praised Roosevelt for some of his policies, and deeply criticized the Republican Party. With only 25 Republicans left in the Senate, Borah saw an opportunity to recast the Republican Party along progressive lines, as he had long sought to do. He was opposed by the Republican organization, which sought to dilute his strength in the primaries by running state favorite son candidates in order to ensure a brokered convention. Despite being easily the leading primary vote-getter, Borah managed to win only a handful of delegates and took a majority of them in only one state, Wisconsin, where he had the endorsement of Senator Robert M. La Follette, Jr. Borah refused to endorse the eventual Republican nominee, Kansas Governor Alf Landon, leading some to believe he might cross party lines and support Roosevelt. Ultimately, as he had four years earlier, he chose to endorse neither candidate. Borah was on the ballot that fall in Idaho, seeking a sixth term in the Senate. For the first time since the people had been given the right to elect senators, the Democrats ran a serious candidate against him, Governor C. Ben Ross. Although Idahoans overwhelmingly voted for Roosevelt, who won all states but Maine and Vermont, Borah still took over 60 percent of their votes in his re-election bid.\nOnly sixteen Republicans remained in the Senate, most progressives, when Congress met in January 1937, but Borah retained much influence as he was liked and respected by Democrats. Many of Roosevelt's New Deal policies, such as the NRA, were struck down by the Supreme Court during Roosevelt's first term, but he had no opportunities to make an appointment to the court in his first four years. In 1937, he proposed what came to be known as the court-packing scheme, that for every justice over the age of seventy, an additional one could be appointed. This would give Roosevelt six picks, but would require Congress to pass legislation, to which Borah was immediately opposed, believing it would be the death of the Supreme Court as an independent institution. Although he refused to take the lead in the bipartisan opposition, Borah wrote a section of the committee report dealing with the history and independence of the court. When the matter came to the Senate floor, Borah was asked to make the opening speech, but again deferred to the Democratic majority, and Roosevelt's plan was defeated. The court crisis had also been defused by the retirement of the Senior Associate Justice, Willis Van Devanter, a Taft appointee. When Borah was asked if he had played a role in Van Devanter's retirement, he responded, \"Well, guess for yourself. We live in the same apartment house.\"\n\nAfter Hitler took control in Germany in 1933, Borah thought well of the new chancellor's repudiation of the war guilt and other clauses of the Versailles treaty, and saw much of value in his new social and economic programs. But he was utterly disgusted and alienated by the Nazi treatment of the Jews. This did not initially lead him to speak out against Nazi Germany, though many urged him to do so, as he felt that each nation had the right to run its own affairs. Borah opposed large-scale immigration by Jews from Germany, feeling that was impractical with millions of Americans unemployed. By 1938, Borah was speaking out against the continued persecutions, but still felt that the European issue could be settled if Germany's former colonies were returned. After the Munich Conference in September 1938, Borah issued a statement far more critical of Britain and France for deceiving Czechoslovakia into dismemberment, than of Germany for her aggression.\n\nBorah sought to visit Germany and see Hitler, hoping to settle the troubled international situation. He approached the German Embassy in Washington through intermediaries, and the Germans approved the trip, and even offered to pay, something Borah was unwilling to accept. Borah realized that such a journey would compromise him in foreign policy debates, and did not go; by August 1939, the U.S. was seeking to evacuate its citizens from Europe and the journey was no longer feasible.\nin September 1939, after Germany invaded Poland, and World War II began, Borah mourned, \"Lord, if I could only have talked to Hitler—all this might have been averted.\" This was said to William Kinsey Hutchinson, then International News Service's Washington Bureau Chief. Hutchinson indicated that Borah confided this \"in words that ran like a prayer\". McKenna noted, \"It was fortuitous that the march of events prevented Borah from joining those pacifists and liberals ... who trudged up the hill to Berchtesgaden to lay before the Fuehrer their plans for world peace\".\n\nStill in office, Borah died in his sleep of a cerebral hemorrhage at his home in Washington, D.C., aged 74, on January 19, 1940. His state funeral at the U.S. Capitol was held in the Senate chamber on Monday, January 22. A second funeral was held three days later at the Idaho State Capitol in Boise, where Borah's casket lay beneath the rotunda for six hours prior to the service. An estimated 23,000 passed by the bier or attended the funeral. He is buried in Morris Hill Cemetery in Boise.\n\nThe tributes to Borah on his death were many. William Gibbs McAdoo, a former Democratic senator, stated \"You don't have to agree with every position taken to concede that he was an intellectual giant and one of the truly great men of our times\". Ernest K. Lindley deemed Borah the \"most effectively liberal voice in the Republican Party\". Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels' paper, \"Der Angriff\", asserted, \"American life loses a personality valued by friend or foe on account of his courage, honesty, and decent method of fighting.\" Borah's old classmate, Kansas editor William Allen White, called him \"a righteous man who was wise and unafraid, who followed his star, never lowered his flag, and never lost his self-respect ... an honest man who dedicated his talents to his country's good\". Columnist Raymond Clapper mourned, \"there are no fighters on the progressive side [of the Republican Party]—no men like T.R. ... Borah was the last\".\n\nIn 1895, Borah married Mary McConnell of Moscow, Idaho, daughter of Governor William J. McConnell. They first met in Moscow while he was campaigning for her father. They had no children and she lived in Washington, D.C. into the 1960s; she died in 1976 at the age of 105. Small and elegant, she was commonly known as \"Little Borah\".\n\nThere were rumors in Washington that Borah was a philanderer, and he may have had an affair with his close friend Alice Roosevelt Longworth, elder daughter of Theodore Roosevelt. One of Longworth's biographers has alleged he was the biological father of her daughter, Paulina Longworth Sturm (1925–57). One family friend said of Paulina, \"everybody called her 'Aurora Borah Alice.\n\nIn 1947, the state of Idaho presented a bronze statue of Borah to the National Statuary Hall Collection, sculpted by Bryant Baker. Idaho's highest point, Borah Peak, at was named for him in 1934, while he was dean of the Senate. Two public schools are named for him: Borah High School in Boise, opened in 1958, and Borah Elementary School in Coeur d'Alene. William E. Borah Apartment, Windsor Lodge, his longtime home in Washington was designated a U.S. National Historic Landmark in 1976.\n\nBorah was the subject of a 1963 episode, \"The Lion of Idaho\", of the syndicated television anthology series \"Death Valley Days\". In the episode, Borah as a young attorney (played by Steve Forrest) defends a woman in Nampa on a murder charge. \n\nAt the University of Idaho, an annual symposium on international problems and policy is held by the Borah Foundation, which operates under the university's auspices. The symposium is intended to honor Borah's memory \"by considering the causes of war and the conditions necessary for peace in an international context\". Also affiliated with the university is the William Edgar Borah Outlawry of War Foundation, which was funded by a donation from Borah's colleague in the outlawry movement, Salmon Levinson, in 1929.\n\nBorah's biographer, McKenna, deemed him \"an idealist, even a romantic. He fervently defended the idea of an innocent America, an America too much devoted to the principles stated in the Declaration of Independence, Washington's Farewell Address, Jefferson's First Inaugural, and the Gettysburg Address to risk a compromise of its faith and a coarsening of its character by active entanglement with the Old World.\" John Chalmers Vinson, in his volume on Borah's involvement with the war outlawry movement, believed that the senator \"spoke for a large part of the American public. He was the archetype of absolute insistence on unfettered national will that has been loosely described as isolationism. Further, he represented the struggle to preserve in full the traditions of a small republic remote from strong neighbors against the inroads of recurring crises faced by a world power.\" According to LeRoy Ashby in his book on Borah, he \"emerged as one of the major figures in American reform politics [and] reached the peak of his prestige and influence during the Twenties\". Maddox noted that \"almost as suspicious of U.S. presidents as he was of foreign nations, Borah perceived threats everywhere\".\nBorah's effectiveness as a reformer was undercut by his tendency to abandon causes after initial enthusiasm, as Maddox put it, \"although he was very skilled at speaking out, his unwillingness to do more than protest eventually earned him a reputation for futility.\" H. L. Mencken in 1925 deemed Borah \"the Great Sham\", and the one most responsible for stopping reform in its tracks. Harold L. Ickes wrote, most likely after the 1928 campaign, that progressives in the Senate, with no illusions left about Borah, called him \"our spearless leader\". Theodore Roosevelt described Borah as \"entirely insincere\", an insurgent whose chief talent was to \"insurge\".\n\nAlthough Borah's career bridged two eras of reform, according to Ashby, \"emotionally and intellectually he belonged with the older prewar [that is, pre-World War I] America. As New Deal enthusiast Edgar Kemler observed, he 'was overtaken by obsolescence at an early age'.\" Borah wrote in 1927, near the end of a decade of tumultuous change, \"I cannot think of any views which I now have that I did not have before the war.\" In 1936, \"Time\" magazine noted that though Borah was the most famous senator of the century, and had long been \"the great Moral Force of the Senate ... the conscience of the country has been placed in other pockets\".\n\nMcKenna saw more than Borah becoming an antique in his own time, she saw damage inflicted by his positions: \"time was to demonstrate the utter bankruptcy of the narrow nationalistic policy which the irreconcilables decreed and to which the Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover administrations submitted with such disastrous results.\" Borah's comment regretting that he could not have talked to Hitler has been repeatedly cited as evidence of naiveté in those who believe in the power of pure diplomacy. Conservative commentator Charles Krauthammer has referred to the statement in at least three of his columns, making an analogy to negotiating with China in 1989, with North Korea in 1994 and with Iran in 2006, and it was cited disparagingly in a 2006 speech by Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld.\n\nCriticism of Borah meant little to the people of Idaho, who sent him to the Senate six times over thirty years in a rapidly changing America. Claudius O. Johnson, who studied Borah, explained their relationship:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20585854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20585854", "title": "Wolfgang Hoffmann-Riem", "text": "Wolfgang Hoffmann-Riem\n\nWolfgang Hoffmann-Riem (born March 4, 1940 in Hannover) is a German legal scholar and a former judge of the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany.\n\nWolfgang Hoffmann-Riem was born into a family of teachers. He had four siblings, one of whom died at a very young age. After passing the general qualification for university entrance (Abitur) at the Walddörfer-Gymnasium in Hamburg, he studied law while minoring in economics at the Universities of Hamburg, Freiburg i.Br., Munich, and Berkeley. He was awarded an LL.M. at Berkeley. In 1964 he passed the first state examination and in 1968 obtained a doctorate in law. After passing the second state examination in 1970, he spent four years working as a lawyer. In 1974 he obtained his postdoctoral qualification (Habilitation), which led to an appointment as professor of public law and public administration at the University of Hamburg. From 1977 to 1979, he was the spokesperson for Law Department II at the University of Hamburg, which offered a new single-tier law education as an alternative to the traditional two-tier education in Law Department I. He was offered but declined faculty appointments at the Universities of Hannover, Frankfurt a.M., and Berlin.\n\nFrom 1979 to 1995, Hoffmann-Riem was director of the Hans Bredow Institute for media research, which is affiliated with the University of Hamburg, and from July 1998 until December 1999, he chaired its newly created directorate. Following his appointment as judge of the Federal Constitutional Court, he became an honorary member of the directorate. From 1981 to 1983, he served as chair of the German Association for the Sociology of Law and from 1989 to 1992 as chair of the German Communication Association (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Publizistik- und Kommunikationswissenschaft, DGPuK). Since 1988 he has been director of the Research Centre for Environmental Law and since 1996 director of the Centre for Research in Law and Innovation, CERI, both at the University of Hamburg. From 1995 to 1997, he was Minister of Justice of the State of Hamburg. During this period, he also chaired the Committee on Legal Affairs of the German Bundesrat. From 1999 to 2008, he served as judge in the First Senate of the Federal Constitutional Court. In 2007 he was appointed by the federal government as the German representative on the European Commission for Democracy through Law, also known as the Venice Commission. In 2009/10 Hoffmann-Riem was a Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study (Wissenschaftskolleg) in Berlin. Since 2012 he serves as affiliate professor at the Bucerius Law School, Hamburg.\n\nHoffmann-Riem has sought to change the understanding of law as a discipline dealing solely with the interpretation of norms to one in which actions and decisions focus on resolution of problems. Emphasizing the problem-solving capacity of the legal system, he has maintained that law can help overcome social problems and achieve resolution of specific conflicts if suitable frameworks are deployed in a legal system that is efficient and results-oriented. In his view, this concept derives from the interaction between norms and social reality – that is, the operative area of norms (the so-called \"Realbereich\") – and from the effects of the way in which law is applied, with such effects being measured across disciplines by incorporating sociology, economics, and natural sciences.\n\nThis fundamental understanding has been given expression by Hoffmann-Riem throughout all phases of his extensive career and research. An example of this is his role in reforming legal education in Germany. Traditionally having two parts, the manner of instruction he helped to create forged a stronger bond between the once-separate theoretical and practical aspects. In numerous advisory roles with governments, parliaments, and organizations, as well as his participation in a variety of commissions, he has strived to include the voice of practitioners. In addition, his extensive research and teaching engagements abroad (e.g., at Stanford, Berkeley, Harvard, and Melbourne) have enabled him to incorporate views from other legal systems as well. In analyzing the problems and possibilities associated with legal regulation, he has focused on the media. Thanks to ground-breaking technological breakthroughs (cable and satellite television, digitalization, the Internet) and accompanying shifts in the market, this area has offered him a rich source of material for studying the interplay between responses at the law-making level and social, technological, economic, and political developments. While this transformation was happening, he was head of the Hans Bredow Institute for Radio and Television, whose main focus was on sociological issues.\n\nHoffmann-Riem has seen environmental law as another example of a field warranting closer examination of the problems associated with traditional governmental regulation – variously characterized by writers as a \"crisis\" – and of the need for new regulatory approaches. On these topics, his primary interest has been the interplay between governmental and private entities (so-called \"cooperative administrative law\"), specifically the question of just what type of law is required when the state largely turns over its public-interest responsibilities to the private sector while remaining tasked with their fulfillment. In an attempt to describe this dynamic, he coined the term \"regulated self-regulation.\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, Hoffmann-Riem initiated a systematic discussion among academics and practitioners on the need and possible options for the reform of administrative law. In doing so, he gained the support of the renowned Heidelberg scholar Eberhard Schmidt-Aßmann. This discussion resulted in a ten-volume series entitled \"The Reform of Administrative Law\" (\"Schriften zur Reform des Verwaltungsrechts\"), published by Nomos Verlag. Another project ensuing from this discussion on reform was a systematic handbook with Hoffmann-Riem as editor – again with Schmidt-Aßmann and also Andreas Voßkuhle – entitled \"Fundamentals of Administrative Law\" (\"Grundlagen des Verwaltungsrechts\"), which have been published in 2012 and 2013. Fifty authors contributed to this project. Vol. 1 and 2 have been published in 2012, vol. 3 will follow in 2013.\n\nIn the 1990s, taking note of on-going public criticism that the ability of German society to innovate was hamstrung on account of restrictions imposed by law, Hoffmann-Riem called for the establishment of a new legal discipline, which came to be called research in law and innovation (see, e.g., \"Research in Law and Innovation\" [\"Schriften zur rechtswissenschaftlichen Innovationsforschung\"], published by Nomos Verlag). In 1995 he founded the Centre for Research in Law and Innovation (CERI) at the University of Hamburg and undertook several research projects on the importance of law in society-based technological and social innovation.\n\nDuring his tenure as Senator of Justice in the Hamburg Senate, Hoffmann-Riem conceived and initiated an overhaul of Hamburg's judicial administration termed \"Justice 2000\", and it became a model for other German states.\n\nIn 1999 the German Social Democratic Party (SPD) nominated the politically unaffiliated scholar Hoffman-Riem as judge of the Federal Constitutional Court, and he was subsequently elected by the Bundesrat. His scope of responsibility encompassed, inter alia, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, general protection of privacy, protection of personal information, and competition law. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, he authored a series of decisions that gave rise to spirited public debate, including those on freedom of assembly and the relationship between freedom and security (for example, decisions on sweeping wiretapping powers [\"Großen Lauschangriff\"], wiretapping using foreign trade law or general police regulations, profiling, online searches, automated recording of car license plates, and data retention.) While recognizing the need for the state to ensure public safety, the Constitutional Court held that guarantees afforded by the rule of law may not be ignored and governmental power must be limited, and even in the face of perceived threats, it is paramount that the principles of proportionality and certainty in the application of law be respected and procedural safeguards be maintained. In these decisions (for example, in the ruling dealing with online searches), the Constitutional Court dealt extensively with developments in current technology that have long been the subject of Hoffmann-Riem's research.\n\nIn 2008 the German Federal President bestowed on Hoffmann-Riem the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nThe entire list of Hoffmann-Riem's publications can be found here.\n\nHis most important publications have recently been republished in the following anthologies:\n\n\n"}
