{"id": "17097201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17097201", "title": "2 Tuff Tony", "text": "2 Tuff Tony\n\nAnthony Borcherding (born June 6, 1974), better known by his ring name 2 Tuff Tony, is an American professional wrestler best known for his hardcore wrestling style. Throughout his professional wrestling career, Tony has wrestled for various wrestling promotions, including Independent Wrestling Association Mid-South, Combat Zone Wrestling, Big Japan Pro Wrestling, and Juggalo Championship Wrestling. He is currently employed by Juggalo Championship Wrestling.\n\nIn his professional wrestling career, Tony is an eight-time Heavyweight champion, having won the BBW Wrestling Heavyweight Championship once, ICW Heavyweight Championship once, IWA Mid-South Heavyweight Championship twice, JCW Heavyweight Championship three times, and MRW Heavyweight Championship once. In addition to these championships, he has won the Dramatic Dream Team Ironman Heavymetalweight Championship once and IWA Mid-South Hardcore Championship thrice, the latter of which he is the final recognized champion. Tony is also the 2006 IWA Mid-South Double Death Tag Team Tournament winner with Mad Man Pondo.\n\nTony's friends Robert and Jerry traveled to Arkansas to train with professional wrestlers The Moondogs and invited him to come along. After watching several training sessions, Tony was invited into the ring. He soon began training alongside his friends, free of charge, because Moondog Spot felt that Tony \"was a natural for the business.\" Tony started wrestling in Indiana in a small bingo hall, where he first met wrestler Corporal Robinson. He, Robinson, and Mad Man Pondo began traveling throughout the country together. Video distribution company Smart Mark Video helped the trio gain national exposure.\n\nTony began working for Independent Wrestling Association Mid-South (IWA-MS) in 1999. He wrestled his first match against Rolling Hard, where he was introduced to the hardcore wrestling style of the company. Seeing that Tony had never wrestled in the hardcore style before, Mad Man Pondo requested to work with him in matches. The promotion's owner, Ian Rotten, supported the idea and booked the two in a rivalry. Pondo acquainted him to the proper techniques of hardcore wrestling, and Tony later recalled that Pondo \"took good care of me\" in their matches.\n\nOn April 29, 1999, Tony defeated Pondo for the IWA Mid-South Hardcore Championship. He lost the championship on May 14 to Pondo, but won it back the following day. The following February he lost the championship, but won the IWA Mid-South Heavyweight Championship two weeks later. On March 4, he defeated Pondo and Delilah Starr to unify the IWA-MS Hardcore and Heavyweight Championships. Two weeks later, Tony lost the championship. He won it for a second time the following March 2, before losing it to Mitch Page a month later.\n\nIn 2006, Tony and Mad Man Pondo took part in the first Double Death Tag Team Tournament, though they weren't told which team would win the tournament. They defeated Children of Pain then Dysfunction and Corporal Robinson to make it to the finals. In the finals, Tony and Pondo defeated Tough Crazy Bastards to be crowned the first Double Death Tag Team Tournament champions.\n\nIn 1997, Tony wrestled for Insane Clown Posse at the event \"ICP's Strangle-Mania Live\". Two years later, he, Robinson, and Mad Man Pondo wrestled at the Dan Curtis Memorial, an independent wrestling booker who had recently worked for Insane Clown Posse. Several days after the event, Tony, Robinson, and Pondo were booked to wrestle for Insane Clown Posse's first Juggalo Championship Wrestling show. Video of the event was later released nationally. Tony continued wrestling for Juggalo Championship Wrestling, including matches at the Gathering of the Juggalos festivals and two other videos released by the company.\n\nTony went on tour with JCW in 2007 to film the internet wrestling show SlamTV!, where he was involved in a rivalry with Tracy Smothers. Tracy attacked Tony in the sixth episode, causing Tony to be knocked out of action for several weeks. Per storyline, Smothers was arrested just days before Tony's return on the eighth episode, leaving Tony with no way to seek revenge. Tony was attacked by Bull Pain at East Side Wars, but later defeated him in a Louisville Slugger match at Bloodymania. On January 26, 2008, Tony and Violent J won the JCW Tag Team Championship. However, their victory was declared void, stricken from the record, and the title was vacated.\n\nTony continued his rivalry with Tracy Smothers into season two of SlamTV! In the first episode, both men faced off in a match which saw Tracy win after a fast count by the referee, who was later revealed as Tracy's illegitimate daughter, Isabella. Two weeks later, Tracy caught Isabella listening to Boondox, the rapper who sings Tony's entrance music. The following week, Tony attacked Smothers after his match. Tracy later caught Isabella engaging in sexual actions with Boondox, through storyline, and assaulted him. Tracy and Isabella Smothers were then scheduled face Boondox and 2 Tuff Tony at Bloodymania II. However, Isabella was replaced by Bull Pain after she injured her leg, and Smothers and Pain lost to Tony and Boondox.\n\nAt the 2008 Hallowicked After-Party, Tony joined the group the Juggalo World Order. On November 9, the Juggalo World Order (Scott Hall, Shaggy 2 Dope, Violent J, 2 Tuff Tony, and Corporal Robinson) \"invaded\" Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's Turning Point PPV by purchasing front row tickets to the event. They proceeded to promote their faction by flashing their JWO jerseys, which each member had on, before being removed from the building. At Bloodymania III, 2 Tuff Tony was defeated by Viscera in a \"Loser leaves JCW\" match with Terry Funk as special guest referee due to interference by Balls Mahoney. Tony was reinstated two months later under the conditions that he start at the bottom, receive no title matches for several months, and cannot compete at any \"Bloodymania\" events.\n\nThat October at Hallowicked After-Party, Tony debuted under the name 2 Strong John while wearing a mask and wrestled against Balls Mahoney. \nAt Oddball Bonanza on March 20, 2010, he wrestled as 2 Tuff Tony to take on \"Holy\" Trent Acid. During the match, he debuted his newest finisher, an inverted sitout package piledriver which he calls Dick for Dinner. Bloodymania IV saw the team of Balls Mahoney and the masked Hollywood Chuck Hogan defeat the team of Mad Man Pondo and Necro Butcher. Following the match, Hollywood Chuck Hogan unmasked himself to reveal that he was actually 2 Tuff Tony. Tony then attacked Mahoney, leaving him beat down in the middle of the ring.\n\nTony faced Sabu at the 2011 event Monster's Island. Sabu, who recently aligned himself with villainous manager Charlie Brown, defeated Tony and continued to attack him after the match ended. The two wrestled again at Up in Smoke in a match where Rob Conway was hired by Brown to attack Tony. He and Rhino defeated Sabu and Conway at St. Andrews Brawl, where Tony was later named number one contender for the JCW Heavyweight Championship. At Send in the Clowns, Tony defeated Butler Geeves to become JCW Heavyweight Champion. The following month at Above The Law, Tony lost the championship to Officer Colt Cabana.\n\nAt the Hatchet Attacks PPV on May 26, 2012, 2 Tuff Tony defeated Kongo Kong to win the vacant JCW Heavyweight Championship, making him champion for a second time. On October 31, 2013, Tony was defeated by Necro Butcher in a title match. On May 4, 2014, Tony defeated Krimson to win the vacant JCW Heavyweight Championship. On April 19, 2015, Tony was defeated by Weedman in a title match.\n\n2 Tuff appears as himself with former JCW tag partner Corporal Robinson in the underground wrestling documentary Wrestling with Disaster, a feature-length film that highlights an indy wrestling show gone horribly awry. The production is currently streaming at youtube.com/LegitProWrestling \n\nTony was brought to Big Japan Pro Wrestling in 2000 by Mad Man Pondo, at the time the American booker for the company. Tony trained at local dojos and helped set up chairs at the company, which earned him the respect of the wrestlers. During his first tour, Tony wrestled in mostly singles matches and learned the Japanese style of wrestling. In his third tour, he and Pondo formed the tag team Baka Gaijin, Japanese for Stupid Foreigners. The team was well received by both the Japanese crowd and the Japanese wrestlers. They continued to wrestle multiple tours together from 2001 to 2006.\n\nBorcherding resides in his hometown of Louisville, Kentucky. He has one daughter and one son. He has suffered multiple injuries throughout his career, including roughly 30 concussions, a split artery in his wrist, a broken leg, both eyebrows being split, and permanent scarring on his forehead. In 2001, Tony and Corporal Robinson signed with Extreme Championship Wrestling, but the company filed bankruptcy that same day. Though they were not in the company long, the duo had become (and still remain) friends with many of the wrestlers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49159269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49159269", "title": "APC Family", "text": "APC Family\n\nThe Amino Acid-Polyamine-Organocation (APC) Family (TC# 2.A.3) of transport proteins includes members that function as solute:cation symporters and solute:solute antiporters. They occur in bacteria, archaea, fungi, unicellular eukaryotic protists, slime molds, plants and animals. They vary in length, being as small as 350 residues and as large as 850 residues. The smaller proteins are generally of prokaryotic origin while the larger ones are of eukaryotic origin. Most of them possess twelve transmembrane α-helical spanners but have a re-entrant loop involving TMSs 2 and 3. The APC Superfamily was established to encompass a wider range of homologues.\n\nMembers of one subfamily within the APC family (SGP; TC# 2.A.3.9) are amino acid receptors rather than transporters and are truncated at their C-termini, relative to the transporters, having 10 TMSs.\n\nThe eukaryotic members of another subfamily (CAT; TC# 2.A.3.3) and the members of a prokaryotic subfamily (AGT; TC #2.A.3.11) have 14 TMSs.\n\nThe larger eukaryotic and archaeal proteins possess N- and C-terminal hydrophilic extensions. Some animal proteins, for example, those in the LAT subfamily (TC# 2.A.3.8) including ASUR4 (gbY12716) and SPRM1 (gbL25068) associate with a type 1 transmembrane glycoprotein that is essential for insertion or activity of the permease and forms a disulfide bridge with it. These glycoproteins include the CD98 heavy chain protein of \"Mus musculus (gbU25708)\" and the orthologous 4F2 cell surface antigen heavy chain of \"Homo sapiens (spP08195).\" The latter protein is required for the activity of the cystine/glutamate antiporter (2.A.3.8.5), which maintains cellular redox balance and cysteine/glutathione levels. They are members of the rBAT family of mammalian proteins (TC #8.A.9).\n\nTwo APC family members, LAT1 and LAT2 (TC #2.A.3.8.7), transport a neurotoxicant, the methylmercury-L-cysteine complex, by molecular mimicry.\n\nHip1 of \"S. cerevisiae\" (TC #2.A.3.1.5) has been implicated in heavy metal transport.\n\nSubfamilies of the APC family, and the proteins in these families, can be found in the Transporter Classification Database:\n\n\nBased on 3-D structures of APC superfamily members, Rudnick (2011) has proposed the pathway for transport and suggested a \"rocking bundle\" mechanism.\n\nTransport reactions generally catalyzed by APC Superfamily members include:\n\n"}
{"id": "11468326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11468326", "title": "Abraham III of Armenia", "text": "Abraham III of Armenia\n\nCatholicos Abraham III (also Abraham of Crete or Abraham Kretatsi d. 1737) was the Catholicos of the Armenian Apostolic Church between 1734 and 1737. Born in Heraklion, Crete, to a Greek mother, he was bishop of Rodosto, Thrace and then Armenian prelate of Thrace in 1708–1734. At this time he went on a pilgrimage to eastern Armenia, at that time under Persian rule, which now make up the area of modern-day Armenia and Nakhichevan. Abraham is said to have become Catholicos by chance, because while he was on his pilgrimage to Etchmiadzin Catholicos Abraham II died. Abraham of Crete had impressed many with his religious devotion during his stay there, and so they decided unanimously to elect him the new Catholicos. Abraham III was old at this point and unfamiliar in the workings of Etchmiadzin, so he protested, but despite that in November 1734 he was named the 110th Catholicos of the Armenian Church.\n\nAbraham III came to the throne at a volatile time in the region. Nader Shah of Persia was reconquesting areas which had been lost by his predecessors to the Ottomans including Armenia. Abraham wrote a chronicle of Nader's campaign against the Turks and of his coronation as Shah when in the area. It is a helpful history because it is one of the few non-Persian sources about these years in the Transcaucasus. Abraham wrote that many villages had been left destitute by the Ottoman invasion and that the area was sufferingly greatly. Abraham was invited as a guest of honor at Nader's coronation and Armenian princes were granted autonomy. Abraham recorded detailed conversations he had with the Shah, most likely partly to serve as a record of the many privileges granted to Armenians by the shah and to serve as an example to the Ottomans who also ruled over a large Armenian population. Nader Shah visited the Armenian mother church of Etchmiadzin and reconfirmed its tax-exempt status.\n\nAbraham III died in April 1737 at Etchmiadzin and was buried there after his short but successful reign.\n\n"}
{"id": "11560831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11560831", "title": "Abraham and Coprius of Gryazovets", "text": "Abraham and Coprius of Gryazovets\n\nAbraham and Coprius of Gryazovets (, Abraham and Coprius of Pechenega) founded the Christian monastery at Gryazovets in Russia.\n\nThey were born in Russia, and built the monastery of Gryazovets, at 21 versts from Vologda, around 1492, on the banks of Petshenga River. With no funds they succeeded to build a Transfiguration of the Lord church from scratch of hermitage named in honor of Our Saviour (Спасская пустынь) on the river Petchenga, in Gryazovetsk parish. And thus a monastery was founded. Blessed toilers did not spare themselves, jealously struggling for the Lord until their very death. This tenement was abolished in 1764. \n\nThe time of their death is unknown. The relics of them were resting under a bushel in the Preobrazhensky (Transfiguration of the Lord) monastery church. The basic information about Abraham and Coprius is contained in the \"Description of the Russian Saints\" (known in the Chronicles of the end of the 17th - 18th centuries), which reports that 'in the summer of 7000' (the conditional date, i.e., up to 1492) they settled on the river and built a church.\n\nThe time of a separate local canonization is unknown, but in 1841 they entered the Synaxis of All Saints of Vologda, established by the bishop Innocentius (Borisov).\nTheir feast day is celebrated on February 4 in the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2929673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2929673", "title": "Antenatal steroid", "text": "Antenatal steroid\n\nAntenatal steroids (or antenatal corticosteroids) are medications given to pregnant women expecting preterm delivery. They have been shown to reduce the morbidity and mortality of hyaline membrane disease. They have also been shown to have definite beneficial effect even in conditions of preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM).\n\nThe effectiveness of antenatal corticosteroids in preventing neonatal hyaline membrane disease and reducing mortality in premature infants was first demonstrated by Sir Graham Liggins and Ross Howie in 1972.\n\nCurrent evidence suggests that giving antenatal corticosteroids reduces late miscarriages and baby deaths. The baby is also less likely to have respiratory distress syndrome (difficulty breathing), or need assistance breathing (mechanical ventilation). They are also less likely to have (bleeding on the brain) intraventricular hemorrhage, NEC, or systemic infections (infections affecting the whole body) in the first two days of their life. Steroids do not appear to increase the number of women who develop infection of the fetal membranes (chorioamnionitis) or of the womb (endometritis). This research evidence is mostly from mid- to high-income countries. However, there is not a lot of research into giving antenatal corticosteroids to women in low-income countries where infections are more common. More research is needed to find out the effects of these steroids on women and babies in low-income countries.\n\nDexamethasone and betamethasone are the corticosteroids used for the purpose although the former is recommended over the latter based on its efficacy, safety, wide availability, and low cost in spite of some counter-logic. Betamethasone, on the other hand, is preferred over dexamethasone because it is thought to have better prophylaxis of brain softening of premature fetus. They are used with the intention to help the lungs of a premature fetus develop before the fetus comes out. They are given when the fetus is expected to be delivered within 24 to 48 hours. Treatment consists of 2 doses of 12 mg of betamethasone given intramuscularly 24 hours apart or 4 doses of 6 mg of dexamethasone given intramuscularly 12 hours apart. Optimal benefit begins 24 hours after initiation of therapy and lasts 7 days. Antenatal steroids are currently used up to 36 weeks in some parts of the world obstetric practice.\n\nThe time between administration of steroids and delivery may alter the effectiveness of the steroids.\n\n"}
{"id": "230542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230542", "title": "Appreciative inquiry", "text": "Appreciative inquiry\n\nAppreciative inquiry (AI) is a model that seeks to engage stakeholders in self-determined change. According to Bushe \"AI revolutionized the field of organization development and was a precursor to the rise of positive organization studies and the strengths based movement in American management.\" It was developed at Case Western Reserve University's department of organizational behavior, starting with a 1987 article by David Cooperrider and Suresh Srivastva. They felt that the overuse of \"problem solving\" hampered any kind of social improvement, and what was needed were new methods of inquiry that would help generate new ideas and models for how to organize.\n\nCooperrider and Srivastva took a social constructionist approach, arguing that organizations are created, maintained and changed by conversations, and claiming that methods of organizing were only limited by people's imaginations and the agreements among them.\n\nIn 2001, Cooperrider and Diana Whitney published an article outlining the five principles of AI.\n\nIn 1996, Cooperrider, Whitney and several of their colleagues became centrally involved using AI to mid-wife the creation of the United Religions Initiative, a global organization dedicated to promoting grassroots interfaith cooperation for peace, justice and healing. This early partnership between URI and AI is chronicled in Birth of a Global Community: Appreciative Inquiry in Action by Charles Gibbs and Sally Mahé. AI was also used in the first (1999) and subsequent meetings of business leaders that created the UN's Global Compact. In another of the early applications, Cooperrider and Whitney taught AI to employees of GTE (now part of Verizon) resulting in improvements in employees' support for GTE's business direction and. as a part of continuous process improvement generated both improvements in revenue collection and cost savings earning GTE an ASTD award for the best organisational change program in the US in 1997.\"\n\nOn May 8, 2010, Suresh Srivastva died.\n\nGervase Bushe, a researcher on the topic, published a 2011 review of the model, including its processes, critiques, and evidence. He also published a history of the model in 2012.\n\nAccording to Bushe, AI \"advocates collective inquiry into the best of what is, in order to imagine what could be, followed by collective design of a desired future state that is compelling and thus, does not require the use of incentives, coercion or persuasion for planned change to occur.\"\n\nThe model is based on the assumption that the questions we ask will tend to focus our attention in a particular direction, that organizations evolve in the direction of the questions they most persistently and passionately ask. In the mid 80's most methods of assessing and evaluating a situation and then proposing solutions were based on a \"deficiency\" model, predominantly asking questions such as \"What are the problems?\", \"What's wrong?\" or \"What needs to be fixed?\". Instead of asking \"What's the problem?\", others couched the question in terms of \"challenges\", which still focused on deficiency, on what needs to be fixed or solved. Appreciative Inquiry was the first serious managerial method to refocus attention on what works, the positive core, and on what people really care about. Today, these ways of approaching organizational change are common\n\nThe five principles of AI are:\n\nSome researchers believe that excessive focus on dysfunctions can actually cause them to become worse or fail to become better. By contrast, AI argues, when all members of an organization are motivated to understand and value the most favourable features of its culture, it can make rapid improvements.\n\nStrength-based methods are used in the creation of organizational development strategy and implementation of organizational effectiveness tactics. The \"appreciative\" mode of inquiry often relies on interviews to qualitatively understand the organization's potential strengths by looking at an organization's experience and its potential; the objective is to elucidate the assets and personal motivations that are its strengths.\n\nBushe has argued that mainstream proponents of AI focus too much attention on \"the positive\" and not enough on the transformation that AI can bring about through generating new ideas and the will to act on them. In a 2010 comparative study in a school district he found that even in cases where no change occurred participants were highly positive during the AI process. What distinguished those sites that experienced transformational changes was the creation of new ideas that gave people new ways to address old problems. He argues that for transformational change to occur, AI must address problems that concern people enough to want to change. However, AI addresses them not through problem-solving, but through generative images. Some of this is covered in a 90-minute discussion about AI, positivity and generativity by Bushe and Dr. Ron Fry of Case Western, at the 2012 World Appreciative Inquiry Conference.\n\nThe following table comes from the Cooperrider and Whitney (2001) article and is used to describe some of the distinctions between AI and approaches to organizational development not based on what they call positive potential:\n\nAppreciative inquiry attempts to use ways of asking questions and envisioning the future in order to foster positive relationships and build on the present potential of a given person, organization or situation. The most common model utilizes a cycle of four processes, which focus on what it calls:\n\nThe aim is to build – or rebuild – organizations around what works, rather than trying to fix what doesn't. AI practitioners try to convey this approach as the opposite of problem solving.\n\nThere are a variety of approaches to implementing appreciative inquiry, including mass-mobilised interviews and a large, diverse gathering called an Appreciative Inquiry Summit. These approaches involve bringing large, diverse groups of people together to study and build upon the \"best\" in an organization or community.\n\nAI is used in organizational development and as a consultancy tool in an attempt to bring about strategic change. It has been applied in businesses, health care bodies, social non-profit organizations, educational institutions, and government operations. Although originating in the US, it is also used in the UK – for example in the National Support Teams and around the world. Since 2000, \"The AI Practitioner\", a quarterly publication, has described applications in a variety of settings around the world.\n\nAI has various business applications and can effectively be used to elicit information from stakeholders. Positivity is paired with a group consensus to envision and begin producing an optimistic future based on existing strengths and successes. As seen in Harbarian process modeling, AI has been used in Business process modeling to elicit information about an organization's present state and desired future state.\n\nIn Vancouver, AI is being used by the Dalai Lama Center for Peace and Education. The Center, which was founded by the Dalai Lama and Victor Chan, is using AI to facilitate compassionate communities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "195552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195552", "title": "Artificial consciousness", "text": "Artificial consciousness\n\nArtificial consciousness (AC), also known as machine consciousness (MC) or synthetic consciousness (; ), is a field related to artificial intelligence and cognitive robotics. The aim of the theory of artificial consciousness is to \"Define that which would have to be synthesized were consciousness to be found in an engineered artifact\" .\n\nNeuroscience hypothesizes that consciousness is generated by the interoperation of various parts of the brain, called the neural correlates of consciousness or NCC, though there are challenges to that perspective. Proponents of AC believe it is possible to construct systems (e.g., computer systems) that can emulate this NCC interoperation.\n\nArtificial consciousness concepts are also pondered in the philosophy of artificial intelligence through questions about mind, consciousness, and mental states.\n\nAs there are many hypothesized types of consciousness, there are many potential implementations of artificial consciousness. In the philosophical literature, perhaps the most common taxonomy of consciousness is into \"access\" and \"phenomenal\" variants. Access consciousness concerns those aspects of experience that can be apprehended, while phenomenal consciousness concerns those aspects of experience that seemingly cannot be apprehended, instead being characterized qualitatively in terms of “raw feels”, “what it is like” or qualia ().\n\nType-identity theorists and other skeptics hold the view that consciousness can only be realized in particular physical systems because consciousness has properties that necessarily depend on physical constitution (; ).\n\nIn his article \"Artificial Consciousness: Utopia or Real Possibility\" Giorgio Buttazzo says that despite our current technology's ability to simulate autonomy, \"Working in a fully automated mode, they [the computers] cannot exhibit creativity, emotions, or free will. A computer, like a washing machine, is a slave operated by its components.\"\n\nFor other theorists (e.g., functionalists), who define mental states in terms of causal roles, any system that can instantiate the same pattern of causal roles, regardless of physical constitution, will instantiate the same mental states, including consciousness ().\n\nOne of the most explicit arguments for the plausibility of AC comes from David Chalmers. His proposal, found within his article , is roughly that the right kinds of computations are sufficient for the possession of a conscious mind. In the outline, he defends his claim thus: Computers perform computations. Computations can capture other systems' abstract causal organization.\n\nThe most controversial part of Chalmers' proposal is that mental properties are \"organizationally invariant\". Mental properties are of two kinds, psychological and phenomenological. Psychological properties, such as belief and perception, are those that are \"characterized by their causal role\". He adverts to the work of and in claiming that \"[s]ystems with the same causal topology…will share their psychological properties\".\n\nPhenomenological properties are not prima facie definable in terms of their causal roles. Establishing that phenomenological properties are amenable to individuation by causal role therefore requires argument. Chalmers provides his Dancing Qualia Argument for this purpose.\n\nChalmers begins by assuming that agents with identical causal organizations could have different experiences. He then asks us to conceive of changing one agent into the other by the replacement of parts (neural parts replaced by silicon, say) while preserving its causal organization. Ex hypothesi, the experience of the agent under transformation would change (as the parts were replaced), but there would be no change in causal topology and therefore no means whereby the agent could \"notice\" the shift in experience.\n\nCritics of AC object that Chalmers begs the question in assuming that all mental properties and external connections are sufficiently captured by abstract causal organization.\n\nIf it were suspected that a particular machine was conscious, its rights would be an ethical issue that would need to be assessed (e.g. what rights it would have under law). For example, a conscious computer that was owned and used as a tool or central computer of a building or large machine is a particular ambiguity. Should laws be made for such a case, consciousness would also require a legal definition (for example a machine's ability to experience pleasure or pain, known as sentience). Because artificial consciousness is still largely a theoretical subject, such ethics have not been discussed or developed to a great extent, though it has often been a theme in fiction (see below).\n\nThe rules for the 2003 Loebner Prize competition explicitly addressed the question of robot rights:\n61. If, in any given year, a publicly available open source Entry entered by the University of Surrey or the Cambridge Center wins the Silver Medal or the Gold Medal, then the Medal and the Cash Award will be awarded to the body responsible for the development of that Entry. If no such body can be identified, or if there is disagreement among two or more claimants, the Medal and the Cash Award will be held in trust \"until such time as the Entry may legally possess, either in the United States of America or in the venue of the contest, the Cash Award and Gold Medal in its own right\".\n\nThere are various aspects of consciousness generally deemed necessary for a machine to be artificially conscious. A variety of functions in which consciousness plays a role were suggested by Bernard Baars () and others. The functions of consciousness suggested by Bernard Baars are Definition and Context Setting, Adaptation and Learning, Editing, Flagging and Debugging, Recruiting and Control, Prioritizing and Access-Control, Decision-making or Executive Function, Analogy-forming Function, Metacognitive and Self-monitoring Function, and Autoprogramming and Self-maintenance Function. Igor Aleksander suggested 12 principles for artificial consciousness () and these are: The Brain is a State Machine, Inner Neuron Partitioning, Conscious and Unconscious States, Perceptual Learning and Memory, Prediction, The Awareness of Self, Representation of Meaning, Learning Utterances, Learning Language, Will, Instinct, and Emotion. The aim of AC is to define whether and how these and other aspects of consciousness can be synthesized in an engineered artifact such as a digital computer. This list is not exhaustive; there are many others not covered.\n\nAwareness could be one required aspect, but there are many problems with the exact definition of \"awareness\". The results of the experiments of neuroscanning on monkeys suggest that a process, not only a state or object, activates neurons. Awareness includes creating and testing alternative models of each process based on the information received through the senses or imagined, and is also useful for making predictions. Such modeling needs a lot of flexibility. Creating such a model includes modeling of the physical world, modeling of one's own internal states and processes, and modeling of other conscious entities.\n\nThere are at least three types of awareness: agency awareness, goal awareness, and sensorimotor awareness, which may also be conscious or not. For example, in agency awareness you may be aware that you performed a certain action yesterday, but are not now conscious of it. In goal awareness you may be aware that you must search for a lost object, but are not now conscious of it. In sensorimotor awareness, you may be aware that your hand is resting on an object, but are not now conscious of it.\n\nBecause objects of awareness are often conscious, the distinction between awareness and consciousness is frequently blurred or they are used as synonyms.\n\nConscious events interact with memory systems in learning, rehearsal, and retrieval.\nThe IDA model elucidates the role of consciousness in the updating of perceptual memory, transient episodic memory, and procedural memory. Transient episodic and declarative memories have distributed representations in IDA, there is evidence that this is also the case in the nervous system. In IDA, these two memories are implemented computationally using a modified version of Kanerva’s Sparse distributed memory architecture.\n\nLearning is also considered necessary for AC. By Bernard Baars, conscious experience is needed to represent and adapt to novel and significant events (). By Axel Cleeremans and Luis Jiménez, learning is defined as \"a set of philogenetically advanced adaptation processes that critically depend on an evolved sensitivity to subjective experience so as to enable agents to afford flexible control over their actions in complex, unpredictable environments\" ().\n\nThe ability to predict (or anticipate) foreseeable events is considered important for AC by Igor Aleksander. The emergentist multiple drafts principle proposed by Daniel Dennett in \"Consciousness Explained\" may be useful for prediction: it involves the evaluation and selection of the most appropriate \"draft\" to fit the current environment. Anticipation includes prediction of consequences of one's own proposed actions and prediction of consequences of probable actions by other entities.\n\nRelationships between real world states are mirrored in the state structure of a conscious organism enabling the organism to predict events. An artificially conscious machine should be able to anticipate events correctly in order to be ready to respond to them when they occur or to take preemptive action to avert anticipated events. The implication here is that the machine needs flexible, real-time components that build spatial, dynamic, statistical, functional, and cause-effect models of the real world and predicted worlds, making it possible to demonstrate that it possesses artificial consciousness in the present and future and not only in the past. In order to do this, a conscious machine should make coherent predictions and contingency plans, not only in worlds with fixed rules like a chess board, but also for novel environments that may change, to be executed only when appropriate to simulate and control the real world.\n\nSubjective experiences or qualia are widely considered to be \"the\" hard problem of consciousness. Indeed, it is held to pose a challenge to physicalism, let alone computationalism. On the other hand, there are problems in other fields of science which limit that which we can observe, such as the uncertainty principle in physics, which have not made the research in these fields of science impossible.\n\nThe term \"cognitive architecture\" may refer to a theory about the structure of the human mind, or any portion or function thereof, including consciousness. In another context, a cognitive architecture implements the theory on computers. An example is \"QuBIC: Quantum and Bio-inspired Cognitive Architecture for Machine Consciousness\". One of the main goals of a cognitive architecture is to summarize the various results of cognitive psychology in a comprehensive computer model. However, the results need to be in a formalized form so they can be the basis of a computer program. Also, the role of cognitive architecture is for the A.I. to clearly structure, build, and implement it's thought process.\n\nStan Franklin (1995, 2003) defines an autonomous agent as possessing functional consciousness when it is capable of several of the functions of consciousness as identified by Bernard Baars' Global Workspace Theory . His brain child IDA (Intelligent Distribution Agent) is a software implementation of GWT, which makes it functionally conscious by definition. IDA's task is to negotiate new assignments for sailors in the US Navy after they end a tour of duty, by matching each individual's skills and preferences with the Navy's needs. IDA interacts with Navy databases and communicates with the sailors via natural language e-mail dialog while obeying a large set of Navy policies. The IDA computational model was developed during 1996–2001 at Stan Franklin's \"Conscious\" Software Research Group at the University of Memphis. It \"consists of approximately a quarter-million lines of Java code, and almost completely consumes the resources of a 2001 high-end workstation.\" It relies heavily on \"codelets\", which are \"special purpose, relatively independent, mini-agent[s] typically implemented as a small piece of code running as a separate thread.\" In IDA's top-down architecture, high-level cognitive functions are explicitly modeled (see and for details). While IDA is functionally conscious by definition, Franklin does \"not attribute phenomenal consciousness to his own 'conscious' software agent, IDA, in spite of her many human-like behaviours. This in spite of watching several US Navy detailers repeatedly nodding their heads saying 'Yes, that's how I do it' while watching IDA's internal and external actions as she performs her task.\"\n\nCLARION posits a two-level representation that explains the distinction between conscious and unconscious mental processes.\n\nCLARION has been successful in accounting for a variety of psychological data. A number of well-known skill learning tasks have been simulated using CLARION that span the spectrum ranging from simple reactive skills to complex cognitive skills. The tasks include serial reaction time (SRT) tasks, artificial grammar learning (AGL) tasks, process control (PC) tasks, the categorical inference (CI) task, the alphabetical arithmetic (AA) task, and the Tower of Hanoi (TOH) task . Among them, SRT, AGL, and PC are typical implicit learning tasks, very much relevant to the issue of consciousness as they operationalized the notion of consciousness in the context of psychological experiments.\n\nBen Goertzel is pursuing an embodied AGI through the open-source OpenCog project. Current code includes embodied virtual pets capable of learning simple English-language commands, as well as integration with real-world robotics, being done at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.\n\nPentti considers classical rule-based computing inadequate for achieving AC: \"the brain is definitely not a computer. Thinking is not an execution of programmed strings of commands. The brain is not a numerical calculator either. We do not think by numbers.\" Rather than trying to achieve mind and consciousness by identifying and implementing their underlying computational rules, Haikonen proposes \"a special cognitive architecture to reproduce the processes of perception, inner imagery, inner speech, pain, pleasure, emotions and the cognitive functions behind these. This bottom-up architecture would produce higher-level functions by the power of the elementary processing units, the artificial neurons, without algorithms or programs\". Haikonen believes that, when implemented with sufficient complexity, this architecture will develop consciousness, which he considers to be \"a style and way of operation, characterized by distributed signal representation, perception process, cross-modality reporting and availability for retrospection.\" Haikonen is not alone in this process view of consciousness, or the view that AC will spontaneously emerge in autonomous agents that have a suitable neuro-inspired architecture of complexity; these are shared by many, e.g. and . A low-complexity implementation of the architecture proposed by was reportedly not capable of AC, but did exhibit emotions as expected. See for a comprehensive introduction to Haikonen's cognitive architecture. An updated account of Haikonen's architecture, along with a summary of his philosophical views, is given in .\n\nMurray Shanahan describes a cognitive architecture that combines Baars's idea of a global workspace with a mechanism for internal simulation (\"imagination\") . For discussions of Shanahan's architecture, see and and Chapter 20 of .\n\nSelf-awareness in robots is being investigated by Junichi Takeno at Meiji University in Japan. Takeno is asserting that he has developed a robot capable of discriminating between a self-image in a mirror and any other having an identical image to it, and this claim has already been reviewed . Takeno asserts that he first contrived the computational module called a MoNAD, which has a self-aware function, and he then constructed the artificial consciousness system by formulating the relationships between emotions, feelings and reason by connecting the modules in a hierarchy (Igarashi, Takeno 2007). Takeno completed a mirror image cognition experiment using a robot equipped with the MoNAD system. Takeno proposed the Self-Body Theory stating that \"humans feel that their own mirror image is closer to themselves than an actual part of themselves.\" The most important point in developing artificial consciousness or clarifying human consciousness is the development of a function of self awareness, and he claims that he has demonstrated physical and mathematical evidence for this in his thesis. He also demonstrated that robots can study episodes in memory where the emotions were stimulated and use this experience to take predictive actions to prevent the recurrence of unpleasant emotions (Torigoe, Takeno 2009).\n\nIgor Aleksander, emeritus professor of Neural Systems Engineering at Imperial College, has extensively researched artificial neural networks and claims in his book \"Impossible Minds: My Neurons, My Consciousness\" that the principles for creating a conscious machine already exist but that it would take forty years to train such a machine to understand language. Whether this is true remains to be demonstrated and the basic principle stated in \"Impossible Minds\"—that the brain is a neural state machine—is open to doubt.\n\nStephen Thaler proposed a possible connection between consciousness and creativity in his 1994 patent, called \"Device for the Autonomous Generation of Useful Information\" (DAGUI), or the so-called \"Creativity Machine\", in which computational critics govern the injection of synaptic noise and degradation into neural nets so as to induce false memories or confabulations that may qualify as potential ideas or strategies. He recruits this neural architecture and methodology to account for the subjective feel of consciousness, claiming that similar noise-driven neural assemblies within the brain invent dubious significance to overall cortical activity. Thaler's theory and the resulting patents in machine consciousness were inspired by experiments in which he internally disrupted trained neural nets so as to drive a succession of neural activation patterns that he likened to stream of consciousness.\n\nIn 2011, Michael Graziano and Sabine Kastler published a paper named \"Human consciousness and its relationship to social neuroscience: A novel hypothesis\" proposing a theory of consciousness as an attention schema. Graziano went on to publish an expanded discussion of this theory in his book \"Consciousness and the Social Brain\". This Attention Schema Theory of Consciousness, as he named it, proposes that the brain tracks attention to various sensory inputs by way of an attention schema, analogous to the well study body schema that tracks the spatial place of a person's body. This relates to artificial consciousness by proposing a specific mechanism of information handling, that produces what we allegedly experience and describe as consciousness, and which should be able to be duplicated by a machine using current technology. When the brain finds that person X is aware of thing Y, it is in effect modeling the state in which person X is applying an attentional enhancement to Y. In the attention schema theory, the same process can be applied to oneself. The brain tracks attention to various sensory inputs, and one's own awareness is a schematized model of one's attention. Graziano proposes specific locations in the brain for this process, and suggests that such awareness is a computed feature constructed by an expert system in the brain.\n\nThe most well-known method for testing machine intelligence is the Turing test. But when interpreted as only observational, this test contradicts the philosophy of science principles of theory dependence of observations. It also has been suggested that Alan Turing's recommendation of imitating not a human adult consciousness, but a human child consciousness, should be taken seriously.\n\nOther tests, such as ConsScale, test the presence of features inspired by biological systems, or measure the cognitive development of artificial systems.\n\nQualia, or phenomenological consciousness, is an inherently first-person phenomenon. Although various systems may display various signs of behavior correlated with functional consciousness, there is no conceivable way in which third-person tests can have access to first-person phenomenological features. Because of that, and because there is no empirical definition of consciousness, a test of presence of consciousness in AC may be impossible.\n\nIn 2014, Victor Argonov suggested a non-Turing test for machine consciousness based on machine's ability to produce philosophical judgments. He argues that a deterministic machine must be regarded as conscious if it is able to produce judgments on all problematic properties of consciousness (such as qualia or binding) having no innate (preloaded) philosophical knowledge on these issues, no philosophical discussions while learning, and no informational models of other creatures in its memory (such models may implicitly or explicitly contain knowledge about these creatures’ consciousness). However, this test can be used only to detect, but not refute the existence of consciousness. A positive result proves that machine is conscious but a negative result proves nothing. For example, absence of philosophical judgments may be caused by lack of the machine’s intellect, not by absence of consciousness.\n\nCharacters with artificial consciousness (or at least with personalities that imply they have consciousness), from works of fiction:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17954772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17954772", "title": "Azem Galica", "text": "Azem Galica\n\nAzem Bejta (1889–1924), commonly known as Azem Galica, was an Albanian nationalist and rebel who fought for the unification of Kosovo with Albania.\n\nAzem Bejta was born in the village of Galica (medieval Kalica) in the Skenderaj town of the Kosovo Vilayet, Ottoman Empire. He was the son of Bejta Galica, a patriot who died fighting against the Ottoman Empire and for Albania's separation from the Serbian state. Azem followed his father, and first fought against the Kingdom of Serbia in 1912.\n\nAzem Galica was one of the leaders of armed resistance to Serbian rule in Kosovo in the years 1912-1914. With his Kacak fighters, he resisted Serbian forces that invaded Kosovo during the Balkan Wars and early in World War I. In the winter of 1915–16, during World War I, Kosovo saw the Serbian army retreat when Kosovo was occupied by Bulgaria and Austria-Hungary.\n\nIn 1915, after the Austro-Hungarian occupation of Kosovo following the rout of the Serbians, Azem Galica began an armed resistance against the new invaders. However, after persuasion by Luigj Gurakuqi, Prenk Bib Doda and Fejzi Alizoti, as well as the opening of 300 Albanian schools, the right to fly the Albanian flag, and assurances that the Austrians would respect the customs of the country, the Albanian language, and both the Christian and Muslim religions, Azem Galica accepted the Austrian occupation.\n\nIn 1918, the Serbian Army pushed the Central Powers out of Kosovo. After World War I ended, Kosovo found itself in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians (later known as the Kingdom of Yugoslavia) on 1 December 1918. Galica again became an outlaw, fighting again the soldiers and police of the King.\n\nDisaffected Kosovar Albanians, who had rallied around Hasan Prishtina, formed a 'Committee for the National Defence of Kosovo' in Shkoder in 1918, their main demand being the unification of Kosovo with Albania. The best known of the Kachak leaders were Bajram Curri, Hasan Prishtina and Azem Galica. A general revolt started, known as the Kachak (outlaw) movement, led by Azem Galica, against the incorporation of Kosovo into Yugoslavia. Fighting blew up in Drenica, Azem Galica's home territory. It was estimated that there were 10,000 active rebels at this time.\n\nHis wife Qerime Radisheva, known as Shota Galica, fought alongside Azem Galica. They succeeded in creating a \"free zone\" in Galica (Azem's hometown) and 3 villages around, called \"Arberia e Vogel\" (little Arberia). The Yugoslav kingdom, however, had no intention of letting this zone survive, and with superior fire power and troop numbers they moved into Drenica. They succeeded in wounding Azem who later died from his wounds. His last wish was for his body not to be found by the Serbs, and thus he was buried in a deep cave somewhere near Drenica. He died on July 15, 1924.\n\nThe death of Galica dealt a mortal blow to the armed resistance against Yugoslav military presence in Kosovo, which he had led for the past eight years. The Yugoslavs intensified their repression of the Albanian movement in Kosovo.\n\nApart from some small groups which were never subdued, the end of the major Kacak resistance came when Yugoslav government helped Ahmed Zogu to return to power in Tirana in December 1924, in exchange for his suppressing the Committee for the National Defence of Kosovo.\n\nAs national heroes, Azem and Shota Galica epitomized the Albanian Kosovar resistance. The Albanians gave these fighters for a national cause a rightful place in history, celebrating them as martyrs for the nation. Their sacrifice was seen as integral to the national effort to free Kosovo from Serbian rule. In the long term, the killing of the Galicas and of many others stimulated, and set an example of, Albanian resistance against repression and inequality in Kosovo.\n\n"}
{"id": "30355579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30355579", "title": "BRENDA tissue ontology", "text": "BRENDA tissue ontology\n\nThe BTO (BRENDA Tissue Ontology) represents a comprehensive structured encyclopedia. It provides terms, classifications, and definitions of tissues, organs, anatomical structures, plant parts, cell cultures, cell types, and cell lines of organisms from all taxonomic groups (animals, plants, fungis, protozoon) as enzyme sources. The information is connected to the functional data in the BRENDA (\"BRaunschweig ENzyme DAtabase“) enzyme information system.\n\nBTO is one of the first tissue-specific ontologies in life sciences, not restricted to a specific organism or a specific organism group providing a user-friendly access to the wide range of tissue and cell-type information. Databases, such as \"Ontology Lookup Service\" or ses, such as \"MIRIAM Registry\" or of the EBI-EMBL, the \"TissueDistributionDB\", including the \"Tissue Synonym Library\" of the German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) in Heidelberg or the \"Bioportal\" plattform of the National Center for Biomedical Ontology in Stanford, USA rely on BTO and implement the encyclopedia as an essential repository of information into their respective plattform.\n\nBTO enables users from medical research and pharmaceutical sciences to search for the occurrence and histological detection of disease-related enzymes in tissues, which play an important role in diagnosis, therapies, and drug development. In biochemistry and biotechnology the organism-specific tissue terms linked to enzyme functional data are an important resource for the understanding of the metabolism and regulation in life sciences. Ontologies represent classification systems that provide controlled and structured vocabularies. They are important tools to illustrate and to link evolutionary correlations.\n\nDevelopment of BTO started in 2003, aimed to connect the biochemical and molecular biological enzyme data of BRENDA with a hierarchical and standardized collection of tissue-specific terms. The functional enzyme data and information in BRENDA have been manually annotated and structured by experts from biochemistry, biology, and chemistry. By August 2014, the BTO contained over 5,500 terms, linked to 4,000 synonyms and 4,500 definitions. The terms are classified under generic categories, rules, and formats of the Gene Ontology Consortium (GO,), organized as a directed acyclic graph (DAG) created using the open-source OBO-Edit. All terms from each level are directly connected the enzyme data in BRENDA. BTO is a suitable tool to distinguish between different enzymes which are expressed in a tissue-specific manner.\n\nBTO draws upon the comprehensive enzyme specific data of the BRENDA enzyme information system. Presently (August 2014) 90,500 enzyme-organism-tissue specific data from more than 11,000 proteins are stored in BRENDA. These entries were manually annotated from more thant 135,000 different literature references. All terms in BTO are evaluated and classified according to the OBO-format, and are connected by specific relationships. Each term is a distinct entry within the ontology and is automatically assigned to a unique BTO-identifier (BTO-ID). The BTO-IDs serve as stable accession numbers in order to create cross-references to further external biochemical databases. Further tissue und cell-type specific terms from external databases (i.e. UniProt) are integrated into BTO.\n\nThe terms are classified in 4 main categories (subgraphs):\n\n\nFurther levels are defined below the main categories (=nodes), classifiying the “parent”, “child”, and “grandchild” all connected via specific relationships (=edges)\n\n\nMost of the terms are clearly associated with specific organisms, organs, tissues, or cell types. However, there are several identical designations for tissues both in plants and animals, e.g. “epidermis”. To distinguish between those tissue terms and to classify them correctly into BTO for plant tissues the prefix “plant” is placed before the term, e.g. “plant epidermis”.\n\nMore than 80% of the tissue terms have definitions that describe the meaning and context. These definitions are obtained from i.e. medical dictionaries and cell line databases (Webster’s Dictionary, DSMZ).\n\nThe entries in BTO are updated bi-annually as part of the major update of BRENDA. It is available via the BRENDA website in the category “Ontology Explorer”. The enzyme source terms can be searched via the BTO query form. As a result, the user receives a list of EC numbers which are directly connected to the enzyme information of BRENDA. It is also possible to search via the BRENDA “Source Tissue” search form (“Classic View”). The result page displays all enzymes which are isolated or detected in the searched tissue term, directly linked to BTO.\n\nBTO and BRENDA are freely accessible for academic users. It can be freely downloaded via the “Ontology Explorer” of the BRENDA website or in the OBO format from “Obofoundry”. Commercial users require a license distributed by the \"biobase GmbH\".\n\n"}
{"id": "59483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59483", "title": "Carl Wilhelm Scheele", "text": "Carl Wilhelm Scheele\n\nCarl Wilhelm Scheele (, ; 9 December 1742 – 21 May 1786) was a Swedish Pomeranian and German pharmaceutical chemist. Isaac Asimov called him \"hard-luck Scheele\" because he made a number of chemical discoveries before others who are generally given the credit. For example, Scheele discovered oxygen (although Joseph Priestley published his findings first), and identified molybdenum, tungsten, barium, hydrogen, and chlorine before Humphry Davy, among others. Scheele discovered organic acids tartaric, oxalic, uric, lactic, and citric, as well as hydrofluoric, hydrocyanic, and arsenic acids. He preferred speaking German to Swedish his whole life, as German was commonly spoken among Swedish pharmacists.\n\nScheele was born in Stralsund, in western Pomerania, which at the time was a Swedish Dominion inside the Holy Roman Empire. Scheele's father Joachim (or Johann) Christian Scheele, was a grain dealer and brewer from a respected German family. His mother was Margaretha Eleanore Warnekros.\n\nFriends of Scheele's parents taught him the art of reading prescriptions and the meaning of chemical and pharmaceutical signs. Then, in 1757, at age fourteen Carl was sent to Gothenburg as an apprentice pharmacist with another family friend and apothecary. (Martin Andreas Bauch). Scheele retained this position for eight years. During this time he ran experiments late into the night and read the works of Nicolas Lemery, Caspar Neumann, Johann von Löwenstern-Kunckel and Georg Ernst Stahl (the champion of the phlogiston theory). Much of Scheele's later theoretical speculations were based upon Stahl.\n\nIn 1765 Scheele worked under the progressive and well informed apothecary, C. M. Kjellström in Malmö, and became acquainted with Anders Jahan Retzius who was a lecturer at the University of Lund and later a professor of chemistry at Stockholm. Scheele arrived in Stockholm between 1767 and 1769 and worked as a pharmacist. During this period he discovered tartaric acid and with his friend, Retzius, studied the relation of quicklime to calcium carbonate. While in the capital, he also became acquainted with many luminaries, such as: Abraham Bäck, Peter Jonas Bergius, Bengt Bergius and Carl Friedreich von Schultzenheim.\n\nIn the fall of 1770 Scheele became director of the laboratory of the great pharmacy of Locke, at Uppsala which is about 40 miles north of Stockholm. The laboratory supplied chemicals to Professor of Chemistry Torbern Bergman. A friendship developed between Scheele and Bergman after Scheele analyzed a reaction which Bergman and his assistant Johan Gottlieb Gahn could not resolve. The reaction was between melted saltpetre and acetic acid which produced a red vapor. Further study of this reaction later led to Scheele's discovery of oxygen (see \"The theory of phlogiston\" below). Based upon this friendship and respect Scheele was given free use of Bergman's laboratory. Both men were profiting from their working relationship. In 1774 Scheele was nominated by Peter Jonas Bergius to be a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences and was elected February 4, 1775. In 1775 Scheele also managed for a short time a pharmacy in Köping. Between the end of 1776 and the beginning of 1777 Scheele established his own business there.\n\nOn October 29, 1777, Scheele took his seat for the first, and only time, at a meeting of the Academy of Sciences and on November 11 passed the examination as apothecary before the Royal Medical College and did so with highest honours. After his return to Köping he devoted himself, outside of his business, to scientific researches which resulted in a long series of important papers.\n\nBy the time he was a teenager, Scheele had learned the dominant theory of gases which in the 1770s was the phlogiston theory. Phlogiston, classified as \"matter of fire\", was supposed to be released from any burning material, and when it was exhausted, combustion would stop. When Scheele discovered oxygen he called it \"fire air\" as it supported combustion. Scheele explained oxygen using phlogistical terms because he did not believe that his discovery disproved the phlogiston theory.\n\nBefore Scheele made his discovery of oxygen, he studied air. Air was thought to be an element that made up the environment in which chemical reactions took place but did not interfere with the reactions. Scheele's investigation of air enabled him to conclude that air was a mixture of \"fire air\" and \"foul air;\" in other words, a mixture of two gases. Scheele performed numerous experiments in which he heated substances such as saltpetre (potassium nitrate), manganese dioxide, heavy metal nitrates, silver carbonate and mercuric oxide. In all of these experiments, he isolated the same gas: his \"fire air,\" which he believed combined with phlogiston in materials to be released during heat-releasing reactions.\n\nHowever, his first publication, \"Chemische Abhandlung von der Luft und dem Feuer\", was delivered to the printer Swederus in 1775, but not published until 1777, at which time both Joseph Priestley and Lavoisier had already published their experimental data and conclusions concerning oxygen and the phlogiston theory.Carl was credited for finding oxygen with two other people, Joseph Priestley and Antoine Lavoisier. The first English edition, \"Chemical Observation and Experiments on Air and Fire\" was published in 1780, with an introduction \"Chemical Treatise on Air and Fire\".\n\nScheele achieved astonishingly prolific and important results without the expensive laboratory equipment to which his Parisian contemporary Antoine-Laurent Lavoisier was accustomed. Through the studies of Lavoisier, Joseph Priestley, Scheele, and others, chemistry was made a standardized field with consistent procedures. Although Scheele was unable to grasp the significance of his discovery of the substance that Lavoisier later named oxygen, his work was essential for the abandonment of the long-held theory of phlogiston.\n\nScheele's study of the gas not yet named oxygen was prompted by a complaint by Torbern Olof Bergman, a professor at Upsala University who would eventually become Scheele's friend. Bergman informed Scheele that the saltpeter he had purchased from Scheele's employer, after long heating, produced red vapors (now known to be nitrogen dioxide) when it came into contact with acetic acid. Scheele's quick explanation was that the saltpeter had absorbed phlogiston with the heat (had been reduced to nitrite, in modern terms) and gave off a new phlogisticated gas as an active principle when combined with an acid (even a weak acid).\n\nBergman next suggested that Scheele analyze the properties of manganese (IV) oxide. It was through his studies of manganese(IV)oxide that Scheele developed his concept of \"fire air\" (his name for oxygen). He ultimately obtained oxygen by heating mercuric oxide, silver carbonate, magnesium nitrate, and other nitrate salts. Scheele wrote about his findings to Lavoisier who was able to see the significance of the results. His discovery of oxygen (ca. 1771) was chronologically earlier than the corresponding work of Priestley and Lavoisier, but he did not publish this discovery until 1777, after both of his rivals had published.\n\nAlthough Scheele would always believe in some form of the phlogiston theory, his work reduced phlogiston to an unusually simple form, complicated only by the fact that chemists of Scheele's day still believed that light and heat were elements and were to be found in combination with them. Thus, Scheele assumed that hydrogen was composed of phlogiston (a reducing principle lost when objects were burned) plus heat. Scheele speculated that his fire air or oxygen (which he found the active part of air, estimating it to compose one quarter of air) combined with the phlogiston in objects to produce either light or heat (light and heat were presumed to be composed of differing proportions of phlogiston and oxygen).\n\nWhen other chemists later showed water is produced when burning hydrogen and that rusting of metals added weight to them and that passing water over hot iron gave hydrogen, Scheele modified his theory to suggest that oxygen was the salt (or \"saline principle\" of water), and that when added to iron, water was reproduced, which added weight to the iron as rust.\n\nIn addition to his joint recognition for the discovery of oxygen, Scheele is argued to have been the first to discover other chemical elements such as barium (1772), manganese (1774), molybdenum (1778), and tungsten (1781), as well as several chemical compounds, including citric acid, lactic acid, glycerol, hydrogen cyanide (also known, in aqueous solution, as prussic acid), hydrogen fluoride, and hydrogen sulfide (1777). In addition, he discovered a process similar to pasteurization, along with a means of mass-producing phosphorus (1769), leading Sweden to become one of the world's leading producers of matches.\n\nScheele made one other very important scientific discovery in 1774, arguably more revolutionary than his isolation of oxygen. He identified lime, silica, and iron in a specimen of pyrolusite (impure manganese dioxide) given to him by his friend, Johann Gottlieb Gahn, but could not identify an additional component (this was the manganese, which Scheele recognized was present as a new element, but could not isolate). When he treated the pyrolusite with hydrochloric acid over a warm sand bath, a yellow-green gas with a strong odor was produced. He found that the gas sank to the bottom of an open bottle and was denser than ordinary air. He also noted that the gas was not soluble in water. It turned corks a yellow color and removed all color from wet, blue litmus paper and some flowers. He called this gas with bleaching abilities, \"dephlogisticated muriatic acid\" (dephlogisticated hydrochloric acid, or oxidized hydrochloric acid). Eventually, Sir Humphry Davy named the gas chlorine.\n\nChlorine's bleaching properties were eventually turned into an industry by Berzelius, and became the foundation of a second industry of disinfection and deodorization of putrefied tissue and wounds (including wounds in living humans) in the hands of Labarraque, by 1824.\n\nIn the fall of 1785, Scheele began to suffer from symptoms described as kidney disease. In early 1786, he also contracted a disease of the skin, which, combined with kidney problems, so enfeebled him that he could foresee an early death. With this in mind, he married the widow of his predecessor, Pohl, two days before he died, so that he could pass undisputed title to his pharmacy and his possessions to her.\n\nWhile Scheele's experiments generated substances which have long since been found to be hazardous, the compounds and elements he used to start his experiments were dangerous to begin with, especially heavy metals. Like most of his contemporaries, in an age where there were few methods of chemical characterisation, Scheele would smell and taste any new substances he discovered. Cumulative exposure to arsenic, mercury, lead, their compounds, and perhaps hydrofluoric acid which he had discovered, and other substances took their toll on Scheele, who died at the early age of 43, on 21 May 1786, at his home in Köping. Doctors said that he died of mercury poisoning. \n\n \nAll of the following papers were published by \nScheele within a span of fifteen years.\nScheele's papers appeared first in the \"Transactions\" of the Swedish Academy of Sciences, and in various periodicals such as Lorenz Florenz Friedrich von Crell's \"Chemische Annalen\". Scheele's work was collected and published in four languages beginning with \"Mémoires de Chymie\" by Mme. Claudine Picardet in 1785 and \"Chemical Essays\" by Thomas Beddoes in 1786, followed by Latin and German.\nAnother English translation was published by Dr Leonard Dobbin, in 1931.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7566", "title": "Carousel (musical)", "text": "Carousel (musical)\n\nCarousel is the second musical by the team of Richard Rodgers (music) and Oscar Hammerstein II (book and lyrics). The 1945 work was adapted from Ferenc Molnár's 1909 play \"Liliom\", transplanting its Budapest setting to the Maine coastline. The story revolves around carousel barker Billy Bigelow, whose romance with millworker Julie Jordan comes at the price of both their jobs. He participates in a robbery to provide for Julie and their unborn child; after it goes tragically wrong, he is given a chance to make things right. A secondary plot line deals with millworker Carrie Pipperidge and her romance with ambitious fisherman Enoch Snow. The show includes the well-known songs \"If I Loved You\", \"June Is Bustin' Out All Over\" and \"You'll Never Walk Alone\". Richard Rodgers later wrote that \"Carousel\" was his favorite of all his musicals.\n\nFollowing the spectacular success of the first Rodgers and Hammerstein musical, \"Oklahoma!\" (1943), the pair sought to collaborate on another piece, knowing that any resulting work would be compared with \"Oklahoma!\", most likely unfavorably. They were initially reluctant to seek the rights to \"Liliom\"; Molnár had refused permission for the work to be adapted in the past, and the original ending was considered too depressing for the musical theatre. After acquiring the rights, the team created a work with lengthy sequences of music and made the ending more hopeful.\n\nThe musical required considerable modification during out-of-town tryouts, but once it opened on Broadway on April 19, 1945, it was an immediate hit with both critics and audiences. \"Carousel\" initially ran for 890 performances and duplicated its success in the West End in 1950. Though it has never achieved as much commercial success as \"Oklahoma!\", the piece has been repeatedly revived, recorded several times and was filmed in 1956. A production by Nicholas Hytner enjoyed success in 1992 in London, in 1994 in New York and on tour. Another Broadway revival opened in 2018. In 1999, \"Time\" magazine named \"Carousel\" the best musical of the 20th century.\n\nFerenc Molnár's Hungarian-language drama, \"Liliom\", premiered in Budapest in 1909. The audience was puzzled by the work, and it lasted only thirty-odd performances before being withdrawn, the first shadow on Molnár's successful career as a playwright. \"Liliom\" was not presented again until after World War I. When it reappeared on the Budapest stage, it was a tremendous hit.\nExcept for the ending, the plots of \"Liliom\" and \"Carousel\" are very similar. Andreas Zavocky (nicknamed Liliom, the Hungarian word for \"lily\", a slang term for \"tough guy\"), a carnival barker, falls in love with Julie Zeller, a servant girl, and they begin living together. With both discharged from their jobs, Liliom is discontented and contemplates leaving Julie, but decides not to do so on learning that she is pregnant. A subplot involves Julie's friend Marie, who has fallen in love with Wolf Biefeld, a hotel porter—after the two marry, he becomes the owner of the hotel. Desperate to make money so that he, Julie and their child can escape to America and a better life, Liliom conspires with lowlife Ficsur to commit a robbery, but it goes badly, and Liliom stabs himself. He dies, and his spirit is taken to heaven's police court. As Ficsur suggested while the two waited to commit the crime, would-be robbers like them do not come before God Himself. Liliom is told by the magistrate that he may go back to Earth for one day to attempt to redeem the wrongs he has done to his family, but must first spend sixteen years in a fiery purgatory.\n\nOn his return to Earth, Liliom encounters his daughter, Louise, who like her mother is now a factory worker. Saying that he knew her father, he tries to give her a star he stole from the heavens. When Louise refuses to take it, he strikes her. Not realizing who he is, Julie confronts him, but finds herself unable to be angry with him. Liliom is ushered off to his fate, presumably Hell, and Louise asks her mother if it is possible to feel a hard slap as if it was a kiss. Julie reminiscently tells her daughter that it is very possible for that to happen.\n\nAn English translation of \"Liliom\" was credited to Benjamin \"Barney\" Glazer, though there is a story that the actual translator, uncredited, was Rodgers' first major partner Lorenz Hart. The Theatre Guild presented it in New York City in 1921, with Joseph Schildkraut as Liliom, and the play was a success, running 300 performances. A 1940 revival, with Burgess Meredith and Ingrid Bergman was seen by both Hammerstein and Rodgers. Glazer, in introducing the English translation of \"Liliom\", wrote of the play's appeal:\n\nAnd where in modern dramatic literature can such pearls be matched—Julie incoherently confessing to her dead lover the love she had always been ashamed to tell; Liliom crying out to the distant carousel the glad news that he is to be a father; the two thieves gambling for the spoils of their prospective robbery; Marie and Wolf posing for their portrait while the broken-hearted Julie stands looking after the vanishing Liliom, the thieves' song ringing in her ears; the two policemen grousing about pay and pensions while Liliom lies bleeding to death; Liliom furtively proffering his daughter the star he has stolen for her in heaven. ... The temptation to count the whole scintillating string is difficult to resist.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, Rodgers and Hammerstein both became well known for creating Broadway hits with other partners. Rodgers, with Lorenz Hart, had produced a string of over two dozen musicals, including such popular successes as \"Babes in Arms\" (1937), \"The Boys from Syracuse\" (1938) and \"Pal Joey\" (1940). Some of Rodgers' work with Hart broke new ground in musical theatre: \"On Your Toes\" was the first use of ballet to sustain the plot (in the \"Slaughter on Tenth Avenue\" scene), while \"Pal Joey\" flouted Broadway tradition by presenting a knave as its hero. Hammerstein had written or co-written the words for such hits as \"Rose-Marie\" (1924), \"The Desert Song\" (1926), \"The New Moon\" (1927) and \"Show Boat\" (1927). Though less productive in the 1930s, he wrote material for musicals and films, sharing an Oscar for his song with Jerome Kern, \"The Last Time I Saw Paris\", which was included in the 1941 film \"Lady Be Good\".\n\nBy the early 1940s, Hart had sunk into alcoholism and emotional turmoil, becoming unreliable and prompting Rodgers to approach Hammerstein to ask if he would consider working with him. Hammerstein was eager to do so, and their first collaboration was \"Oklahoma!\" (1943). Thomas Hischak states, in his \"The Rodgers and Hammerstein Encyclopedia\", that \"Oklahoma!\" is \"the single most influential work in the American musical theatre. In fact, the history of the Broadway musical can accurately be divided into what came before \"Oklahoma!\" and what came after it.\" An innovation for its time in integrating song, character, plot and dance, \"Oklahoma!\" would serve, according to Hischak, as \"the model for Broadway shows for decades\", and proved a huge popular and financial success. Once it was well-launched, what to do as an encore was a daunting challenge for the pair. Film producer Samuel Goldwyn saw \"Oklahoma!\" and advised Rodgers to shoot himself, which according to Rodgers \"was Sam's blunt but funny way of telling me that I'd never create another show as good as \"Oklahoma!\"\" As they considered new projects, Hammerstein wrote, \"We're such fools. No matter what we do, everyone is bound to say, 'This is not another \"Oklahoma!\"' \"\n\n\"Oklahoma!\" had been a struggle to finance and produce. Hammerstein and Rodgers met weekly in 1943 with Theresa Helburn and Lawrence Langner of the Theatre Guild, producers of the blockbuster musical, who together formed what they termed \"the Gloat Club\". At one such luncheon, Helburn and Langner proposed to Rodgers and Hammerstein that they turn Molnár's \"Liliom\" into a musical. Both men refused—they had no feeling for the Budapest setting and thought that the unhappy ending was unsuitable for musical theatre. In addition, given the unstable wartime political situation, they might need to change the setting from Hungary while in rehearsal. At the next luncheon, Helburn and Langner again proposed \"Liliom\", suggesting that they move the setting to Louisiana and make Liliom a Creole. Rodgers and Hammerstein played with the idea over the next few weeks, but decided that Creole dialect, filled with \"zis\" and \"zose\", would sound corny and would make it difficult to write effective lyrics.\n\nA breakthrough came when Rodgers, who owned a house in Connecticut, proposed a New England setting. Hammerstein wrote of this suggestion in 1945,\n\nI began to see an attractive ensemble—sailors, whalers, girls who worked in the mills up the river, clambakes on near-by islands, an amusement park on the seaboard, things people could do in crowds, people who were strong and alive and lusty, people who had always been depicted on the stage as thin-lipped puritans—a libel I was anxious to refute ... as for the two leading characters, Julie with her courage and inner strength and outward simplicity seemed more indigenous to Maine than to Budapest. Liliom is, of course, an international character, indigenous to nowhere.\nRodgers and Hammerstein were also concerned about what they termed \"the tunnel\" of Molnár's second act—a series of gloomy scenes leading up to Liliom's suicide—followed by a dark ending. They also felt it would be difficult to set Liliom's motivation for the robbery to music. Molnár's opposition to having his works adapted was also an issue; he had famously turned down Giacomo Puccini when the great composer wished to transform \"Liliom\" into an opera, stating that he wanted the piece to be remembered as his, not Puccini's. In 1937, Molnár, who had recently emigrated to the United States, had declined another offer from Kurt Weill to adapt the play into a musical.\n\nThe pair continued to work on the preliminary ideas for a \"Liliom\" adaptation while pursuing other projects in late 1943 and early 1944—writing the film musical \"State Fair\" and producing \"I Remember Mama\" on Broadway. Meanwhile, the Theatre Guild took Molnár to see \"Oklahoma!\" Molnár stated that if Rodgers and Hammerstein could adapt \"Liliom\" as beautifully as they had modified \"Green Grow the Lilacs\" into \"Oklahoma!\", he would be pleased to have them do it. The Guild obtained the rights from Molnár in October 1943. The playwright received one percent of the gross and $2,500 for \"personal services\". The duo insisted, as part of the contract, that Molnár permit them to make changes in the plot. At first, the playwright refused, but eventually yielded. Hammerstein later stated that if this point had not been won, \"we could never have made \"Carousel\".\"\n\nIn seeking to establish through song Liliom's motivation for the robbery, Rodgers remembered that he and Hart had a similar problem in \"Pal Joey\". Rodgers and Hart had overcome the problem with a song that Joey sings to himself, \"I'm Talking to My Pal\". This inspired \"Soliloquy\". Both partners later told a story that \"Soliloquy\" was only intended to be a song about Liliom's dreams of a son, but that Rodgers, who had two daughters, insisted that Liliom consider that Julie might have a girl. However, the notes taken at their meeting of December 7, 1943 state: \"Mr. Rodgers suggested a fine musical number for the end of the scene where Liliom discovers he is to be a father, in which he sings first with pride of the growth of a boy, and then suddenly realizes it might be a girl and changes completely.\"\nHammerstein and Rodgers returned to the \"Liliom\" project in mid-1944. Hammerstein was uneasy as he worked, fearing that no matter what they did, Molnár would disapprove of the results. \"Green Grow the Lilacs\" had been a little-known work; \"Liliom\" was a theatrical standard. Molnár's text also contained considerable commentary on the Hungarian politics of 1909 and the rigidity of that society. A dismissed carnival barker who hits his wife, attempts a robbery and commits suicide seemed an unlikely central character for a musical comedy. Hammerstein decided to use the words and story to make the audience sympathize with the lovers. He also built up the secondary couple, who are incidental to the plot in \"Liliom\"; they became Enoch Snow and Carrie Pipperidge. \"This Was a Real Nice Clambake\" was repurposed from a song, \"A Real Nice Hayride\", written for \"Oklahoma!\" but not used.\n\nMolnár's ending was unsuitable, and after a couple of false starts, Hammerstein conceived the graduation scene that ends the musical. According to Frederick Nolan in his book on the team's works: \"From that scene the song \"You'll Never Walk Alone\" sprang almost naturally.\" In spite of Hammerstein's simple lyrics for \"You'll Never Walk Alone\", Rodgers had great difficulty in setting it to music. Rodgers explained his rationale for the changed ending,\n\n\"Liliom\" was a tragedy about a man who cannot learn to live with other people. The way Molnár wrote it, the man ends up hitting his daughter and then having to go back to purgatory, leaving his daughter helpless and hopeless. We couldn't accept that. The way we ended \"Carousel\" it may still be a tragedy but it's a hopeful one because in the final scene it is clear that the child has at last learned how to express herself and communicate with others.\nWhen the pair decided to make \"This Was a Real Nice Clambake\" into an ensemble number, Hammerstein realized he had no idea what a clambake was like, and researched the matter. Based on his initial findings, he wrote the line, \"First came codfish chowder\". However, further research convinced him the proper term was \"codhead chowder\", a term unfamiliar to many playgoers. He decided to keep it as \"codfish\". When the song proceeded to discuss the lobsters consumed at the feast, Hammerstein wrote the line \"We slit 'em down the back/And peppered 'em good\". He was grieved to hear from a friend that lobsters are always slit down the front. The lyricist sent a researcher to a seafood restaurant and heard back that lobsters are always slit down the back. Hammerstein concluded that there is disagreement about which side of a lobster is the back. One error not caught involved the song \"June Is Bustin' Out All Over\", in which sheep are depicted as seeking to mate in late spring—they actually do so in the winter. Whenever this was brought to Hammerstein's attention, he told his informant that 1873 was a special year, in which sheep mated in the spring.\n\nRodgers early decided to dispense with an overture, feeling that the music was hard to hear over the banging of seats as latecomers settled themselves. In his autobiography, Rodgers complained that only the brass section can be heard during an overture because there are never enough strings in a musical's small orchestra. He determined to force the audience to concentrate from the beginning by opening with a pantomime scene accompanied by what became known as \"The Carousel Waltz\". The pantomime paralleled one in the Molnár play, which was also used to introduce the characters and situation to the audience. Author Ethan Mordden described the effectiveness of this opening:\n\nOther characters catch our notice—Mr. Bascombe, the pompous mill owner, Mrs. Mullin, the widow who runs the carousel and, apparently, Billy; a dancing bear; an acrobat. But what draws us in is the intensity with which Julie regards Billy—the way she stands frozen, staring at him, while everyone else at the fair is swaying to the rhythm of Billy's spiel. And as Julie and Billy ride together on the swirling carousel, and the stage picture surges with the excitement of the crowd, and the orchestra storms to a climax, and the curtain falls, we realize that R & H have not only skipped the overture \"and\" the opening number but the exposition as well. They have plunged into the story, right into the middle of it, in the most intense first scene any musical ever had.\nThe casting for \"Carousel\" began when \"Oklahoma!\"'s production team, including Rodgers and Hammerstein, was seeking a replacement for the part of Curly (the male lead in \"Oklahoma!\"). Lawrence Langner had heard, through a relative, of a California singer named John Raitt, who might be suitable for the part. Langner went to hear Raitt, then urged the others to bring Raitt to New York for an audition. Raitt asked to sing \"Largo al factotum\", Figaro's aria from \"The Barber of Seville\", to warm up. The warmup was sufficient to convince the producers that not only had they found a Curly, they had found a Liliom (or Billy Bigelow, as the part was renamed). Theresa Helburn made another California discovery, Jan Clayton, a singer/actress who had made a few minor films for MGM. She was brought east and successfully auditioned for the part of Julie.\n\nThe producers sought to cast unknowns. Though many had played in previous Hammerstein or Rodgers works, only one, Jean Casto (cast as carousel owner Mrs. Mullin, and a veteran of \"Pal Joey\"), had ever played on Broadway before. It proved harder to cast the ensemble than the leads, due to the war—Rodgers told his casting director, John Fearnley, that the sole qualification for a dancing boy was that he be alive. Rodgers and Hammerstein reassembled much of the creative team that had made \"Oklahoma!\" a success, including director Rouben Mamoulian and choreographer Agnes de Mille. Miles White was the costume designer while Jo Mielziner (who had not worked on \"Oklahoma!\") was the scenic and lighting designer. Even though \"Oklahoma!\" orchestrator Russell Bennett had informed Rodgers that he was unavailable to work on \"Carousel\" due to a radio contract, Rodgers insisted he do the work in his spare time. He orchestrated \"The Carousel Waltz\" and \"(When I Marry) Mister Snow\" before finally being replaced by Don Walker. A new member of the creative team was Trude Rittmann, who arranged the dance music. Rittmann initially felt that Rodgers mistrusted her because she was a woman, and found him difficult to work with, but the two worked together on Rodgers' shows until the 1970s.\n\nRehearsals began in January 1945; either Rodgers or Hammerstein was always present. Raitt was presented with the lyrics for \"Soliloquy\" on a five-foot long sheet of paper—the piece ran nearly eight minutes. Staging such a long solo number presented problems, and Raitt later stated that he felt that they were never fully addressed. At some point during rehearsals, Molnár came to see what they had done to his play. There are a number of variations on the story. As Rodgers told it, while watching rehearsals with Hammerstein, the composer spotted Molnár in the rear of the theatre and whispered the news to his partner. Both sweated through an afternoon of rehearsal in which nothing seemed to go right. At the end, the two walked to the back of the theatre, expecting an angry reaction from Molnár. Instead, the playwright said enthusiastically, \"What you have done is so beautiful. And you know what I like best? The ending!\" Hammerstein wrote that Molnár became a regular attendee at rehearsals after that.\n\nLike most of the pair's works, \"Carousel\" contains a lengthy ballet, \"Billy Makes a Journey\", in the second act, as Billy looks down to the Earth from \"Up There\" and observes his daughter. In the original production the ballet was choreographed by de Mille. It began with Billy looking down from heaven at his wife in labor, with the village women gathered for a \"birthing\". The ballet involved every character in the play, some of whom spoke lines of dialogue, and contained a number of subplots. The focus was on Louise, played by Bambi Linn, who at first almost soars in her dance, expressing the innocence of childhood. She is teased and mocked by her schoolmates, and Louise becomes attracted to the rough carnival people, who symbolize Billy's world. A youth from the carnival attempts to seduce Louise, as she discovers her own sexuality, but he decides she is more girl than woman, and he leaves her. After Julie comforts her, Louise goes to a children's party, where she is shunned. The carnival people reappear and form a ring around the children's party, with Louise lost between the two groups. At the end, the performers form a huge carousel with their bodies.\n\nThe play opened for tryouts in New Haven, Connecticut on March 22, 1945. The first act was well-received; the second act was not. Casto recalled that the second act finished about 1:30 a.m. The staff immediately sat down for a two-hour conference. Five scenes, half the ballet, and two songs were cut from the show as the result. John Fearnley commented, \"Now I see why these people have hits. I never witnessed anything so brisk and brave in my life.\" De Mille said of this conference, \"not three minutes had been wasted pleading for something cherished. Nor was there any idle joking. ... We cut and cut and cut and then we went to bed.\" By the time the company left New Haven, de Mille's ballet was down to forty minutes.\n\nA major concern with the second act was the effectiveness of the characters He and She (later called by Rodgers \"Mr. and Mrs. God\"), before whom Billy appeared after his death. Mr. and Mrs. God were depicted as a New England minister and his wife, seen in their parlor. The couple was still part of the show at the Boston opening. Rodgers said to Hammerstein, \"We've got to get God out of that parlor\". When Hammerstein inquired where he should put the deity, Rodgers replied, \"I don't care where you put Him. Put Him on a ladder for all I care, only get Him out of that parlor!\" Hammerstein duly put Mr. God (renamed the Starkeeper) atop a ladder, and Mrs. God was removed from the show. Rodgers biographer Meryle Secrest terms this change a mistake, leading to a more fantastic afterlife, which was later criticized by \"The New Republic\" as \"a Rotarian atmosphere congenial to audiences who seek not reality but escape from reality, not truth but escape from truth\".\n\nHammerstein wrote that Molnár's advice, to combine two scenes into one, was key to pulling together the second act and represented \"a more radical departure from the original than any change we had made\". A reprise of \"If I Loved You\" was added in the second act, which Rodgers felt needed more music. Three weeks of tryouts in Boston followed the brief New Haven run, and the audience there gave the musical a warm reception. An even shorter version of the ballet was presented the final two weeks in Boston, but on the final night there, de Mille expanded it back to forty minutes, and it brought the house down, causing both Rodgers and Hammerstein to embrace her.\n\nTwo young female millworkers in 1873 Maine visit the town's carousel after work. One of them, Julie Jordan, attracts the attention of the barker, Billy Bigelow (\"The Carousel Waltz\"). When Julie lets Billy put his arm around her during the ride, Mrs. Mullin, the widowed owner of the carousel, tells Julie never to return. Julie and her friend, Carrie Pipperidge, argue with Mrs. Mullin. Billy arrives and, seeing that Mrs. Mullin is jealous, mocks her; he is fired from his job. Billy, unconcerned, invites Julie to join him for a drink. As he goes to get his belongings, Carrie presses Julie about her feelings toward him, but Julie is evasive (\"You're a Queer One, Julie Jordan\"). Carrie has a beau too, fisherman Enoch Snow (\"(When I Marry) Mister Snow\"), to whom she is newly engaged. Billy returns for Julie as the departing Carrie warns that staying out late means the loss of Julie's job. Mr. Bascombe, owner of the mill, happens by along with a policeman, and offers to escort Julie to her home, but she refuses and is fired. Left alone, she and Billy talk about what life might be like if they were in love, but neither quite confesses to the growing attraction they feel for each other (\"If I Loved You\").\nOver a month passes, and preparations for the summer clambake are under way (\"June Is Bustin' Out All Over\"). Julie and Billy, now married, live at Julie's cousin Nettie's spa. Julie confides in Carrie that Billy, frustrated over being unemployed, hit her. Carrie has happier news—she is engaged to Enoch, who enters as she discusses him (\"(When I Marry) Mister Snow (reprise))\". Billy arrives with his ne'er-do-well whaler friend, Jigger. The former barker is openly rude to Enoch and Julie, then leaves with Jigger, followed by a distraught Julie. Enoch tells Carrie that he expects to become rich selling herring and to have a large family, larger perhaps than Carrie is comfortable having (\"When the Children Are Asleep\").\n\nJigger and his shipmates, joined by Billy, then sing about life on the sea (\"Blow High, Blow Low\"). The whaler tries to recruit Billy to help with a robbery, but Billy declines, as the victim—Julie's former boss, Mr. Bascombe—might have to be killed. Mrs. Mullin enters and tries to tempt Billy back to the carousel (and to her). He would have to abandon Julie; a married barker cannot evoke the same sexual tension as one who is single. Billy reluctantly mulls it over as Julie arrives and the others leave. She tells him that she is pregnant, and Billy is overwhelmed with happiness, ending all thoughts of returning to the carousel. Once alone, Billy imagines the fun he will have with Bill Jr.—until he realizes that his child might be a girl, and reflects soberly that \"you've got to be a \"father\" to a girl\" (\"Soliloquy\"). Determined to provide financially for his future child, whatever the means, Billy decides to be Jigger's accomplice.\n\nThe whole town leaves for the clambake. Billy, who had earlier refused to go, agrees to join in, to Julie's delight, as he realizes that being seen at the clambake is integral to his and Jigger's alibi (\"Act I Finale\").\n\nEveryone reminisces about the huge meal and much fun (\"This Was a Real Nice Clambake\"). Jigger tries to seduce Carrie; Enoch walks in at the wrong moment, and declares that he is finished with her (\"Geraniums In the Winder\"), as Jigger jeers (\"There's Nothin' So Bad for a Woman\"). The girls try to comfort Carrie, but for Julie all that matters is that \"he's your feller and you love him\" (\"What's the Use of Wond'rin'?\"). Julie sees Billy trying to sneak away with Jigger and, trying to stop him, feels the knife hidden in his shirt. She begs him to give it to her, but he refuses and leaves to commit the robbery.\n\nAs they wait, Jigger and Billy gamble with cards. They stake their shares of the anticipated robbery spoils. Billy loses: his participation is now pointless. Unknown to Billy and Jigger, Mr. Bascombe, the intended victim, has already deposited the mill's money. The robbery fails: Bascombe pulls a gun on Billy while Jigger escapes. Billy stabs himself with his knife; Julie arrives just in time for him to say his last words to her and die. Julie strokes his hair, finally able to tell him that she loved him. Carrie and Enoch, reunited by the crisis, attempt to console Julie; Nettie arrives and gives Julie the resolve to keep going despite her despair (\"You'll Never Walk Alone\").\n\nBilly's defiant spirit (\"The Highest Judge of All\") is taken Up There to see the Starkeeper, a heavenly official. The Starkeeper tells Billy that the good he did in life was not enough to get into heaven, but so long as there is a person alive who remembers him, he can return for a day to try to do good to redeem himself. He informs Billy that fifteen years have passed on Earth since his suicide, and suggests that Billy can get himself into heaven if he helps his daughter, Louise. He helps Billy look down from heaven to see her (instrumental ballet: \"Billy Makes a Journey\"). Louise has grown up to be lonely and bitter. The local children ostracize her because her father was a thief and a wife-beater. In the dance, a young ruffian, much like her father at that age, flirts with her and abandons her as too young. The dance concludes, and Billy is anxious to return to Earth and help his daughter. He steals a star to take with him, as the Starkeeper pretends not to notice.\n\nOutside Julie's cottage, Carrie describes her visit to New York with the now-wealthy Enoch. Carrie's husband and their many children enter to fetch her—the family must get ready for the high school graduation later that day. Enoch Jr., the oldest son, remains behind to talk with Louise, as Billy and the Heavenly Friend escorting him enter, invisible to the other characters. Louise confides in Enoch Jr. that she plans to run away from home with an acting troupe. He says that he will stop her by marrying her, but that his father will think her an unsuitable match. Louise is outraged: each insults the other's father, and Louise orders Enoch Jr. to go away. Billy, able to make himself visible at will, reveals himself to the sobbing Louise, pretending to be a friend of her father. He offers her a gift—the star he stole from heaven. She refuses it and, frustrated, he slaps her hand. He makes himself invisible, and Louise tells Julie what happened, stating that the slap miraculously felt like a kiss, not a blow—and Julie understands her perfectly. Louise retreats to the house, as Julie notices the star that Billy dropped; she picks it up and seems to feel Billy's presence (\"If I Loved You (Reprise)\").\n\nBilly invisibly attends Louise's graduation, hoping for one last chance to help his daughter and redeem himself. The beloved town physician, Dr. Seldon (who resembles the Starkeeper) advises the graduating class not to rely on their parents' success or be held back by their failure (words directed at Louise). Seldon prompts everyone to sing an old song, \"You'll Never Walk Alone\". Billy, still invisible, whispers to Louise, telling her to believe Seldon's words, and when she tentatively reaches out to another girl, she learns she does not have to be an outcast. Billy goes to Julie, telling her at last that he loved her. As his widow and daughter join in the singing, Billy is taken to his heavenly reward.\n\n° denotes original Broadway cast\n\nAct I\nAct II\n\nThe original Broadway production opened at the Majestic Theatre on April 19, 1945. The dress rehearsal the day before had gone badly, and the pair feared the new work would not be well received. One successful last-minute change was to have de Mille choreograph the pantomime. The movement of the carnival crowd in the pantomime had been entrusted to Mamoulian, and his version was not working. Rodgers had injured his back the previous week, and he watched the opening from a stretcher propped in a box behind the curtain. Sedated with morphine, he could see only part of the stage. As he could not hear the audience's applause and laughter, he assumed the show was a failure. It was not until friends congratulated him later that evening that he realized that the curtain had been met by wild applause. Bambi Linn, who played Louise, was so enthusiastically received by the audience during her ballet that she was forced to break character, when she next appeared, and bow. Rodgers' daughter Mary caught sight of her friend, Stephen Sondheim, both teenagers then, across several rows; both had eyes wet with tears.\n\nThe original production ran for 890 performances, closing on May 24, 1947. The original cast included John Raitt (Billy), Jan Clayton (Julie), Jean Darling (Carrie), Eric Mattson (Enoch Snow), Christine Johnson (Nettie Fowler), Murvyn Vye (Jigger), Bambi Linn (Louise) and Russell Collins (Starkeeper). In December 1945, Clayton left to star in the Broadway revival of \"Show Boat\" and was replaced by Iva Withers; Raitt was replaced by Henry Michel in January 1947; Darling was replaced by Margot Moser.\n\nAfter closing on Broadway, the show went on a national tour for two years. It played for five months in Chicago alone, visited twenty states and two Canadian cities, covered and played to nearly two million people. The touring company had a four-week run at New York City Center in January 1949.<ref name=\"NYT/Calta 1949-01-25\">Calta, Louis. \"'Carousel' opens tonight at City Center\". \"The New York Times\", January 25, 1949, p. 27. Retrieved on December 21, 2010.</ref> Following the City Center run, the show was moved back to the Majestic Theatre in the hopes of filling the theatre until \"South Pacific\" opened in early April. However, ticket sales were mediocre, and the show closed almost a month early.<ref name=\"NYT/Calta 1949-02-28\">Calta, Louis. \"'Carousel' to end run on Saturday\". \"The New York Times\", February 28, 1949, p. 15. Retrieved on December 21, 2010.</ref>\n\nThe musical premiered in the West End, London, at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane on June 7, 1950. The production was restaged by Jerome Whyte, with a cast that included Stephen Douglass (Billy), Iva Withers (Julie) and Margot Moser (Carrie). \"Carousel\" ran in London for 566 performances, remaining there for over a year and a half.\n\n\"Carousel\" was revived in 1954 and 1957 at City Center, presented by the New York City Center Light Opera Company. Both times, the production featured Barbara Cook, though she played Carrie in 1954 and Julie in 1957 (playing alongside Howard Keel as Billy). The production was then taken to Belgium to be performed at the 1958 Brussels World's Fair, with David Atkinson as Billy, Ruth Kobart as Nettie, and Clayton reprising the role of Julie, which she had originated.\n\nIn August 1965, Rodgers and the Music Theater of Lincoln Center produced \"Carousel\" for 47 performances. John Raitt reprised the role of Billy, with Jerry Orbach as Jigger and Reid Shelton as Enoch Snow. The roles of the Starkeeper and Dr. Seldon were played by Edward Everett Horton in his final stage appearance. The following year, New York City Center Light Opera Company brought \"Carousel\" back to City Center for 22 performances, with Bruce Yarnell as Billy and Constance Towers as Julie.\n\nNicholas Hytner directed a new production of \"Carousel\" in 1992, at London's Royal National Theatre, with choreography by Sir Kenneth MacMillan and designs by Bob Crowley. In this staging, the story begins at the mill, where Julie and Carrie work, with the music slowed down to emphasize the drudgery. After work ends, they move to the shipyards and then to the carnival. As they proceed on a revolving stage, carnival characters appear, and at last the carousel is assembled onstage for the girls to ride. Louise is seduced by the ruffian boy during her Act 2 ballet, set around the ruins of a carousel. Michael Hayden played Billy not as a large, gruff man, but as a frustrated smaller one, a time bomb waiting to explode. Hayden, Joanna Riding (Julie) and Janie Dee (Carrie) all won Olivier Awards for their performances. Patricia Routledge played Nettie. Enoch and Carrie were cast as an interracial couple whose eight children, according to the review in \"The New York Times\", looked like \"a walking United Colors of Benetton ad\". Clive Rowe, as Enoch, was nominated for an Olivier Award. The production's limited run from December 1992 through March 1993 was a sellout. It re-opened at the Shaftesbury Theatre in London in September 1993, presented by Cameron Mackintosh, where it continued until May 1994.\n\nThe Hytner production moved to New York's Vivian Beaumont Theater, where it opened on March 24, 1994, and ran for 322 performances. This won five Tony Awards, including best musical revival, as well as awards for Hytner, MacMillan, Crowley and Audra McDonald (as Carrie). The cast also included Sally Murphy as Julie, Shirley Verrett as Nettie, Fisher Stevens as Jigger and Eddie Korbich as Enoch. One change made from the London to the New York production was to have Billy strike Louise across the face, rather than on the hand. According to Hayden, \"He does the one unpardonable thing, the thing we can't forgive. It's a challenge for the audience to like him after that.\" The Hytner \"Carousel\" was presented in Japan in May 1995. A U.S. national tour with a scaled-down production began in February 1996 in Houston and closed in May 1997 in Providence, Rhode Island. Producers sought to feature young talent on the tour, with Patrick Wilson as Billy and Sarah Uriarte Berry, and later Jennifer Laura Thompson, as Julie.\n\nA revival opened at London's Savoy Theatre on December 2, 2008, after a week of previews, starring Jeremiah James (Billy), Alexandra Silber (Julie) and Lesley Garrett (Nettie). The production received warm to mixed reviews. It closed in June 2009, a month early. Michael Coveney, writing in \"The Independent\", admired Rodgers' music but stated, \"Lindsay Posner's efficient revival doesn't hold a candle to the National Theatre 1992 version\". A production at Theater Basel, Switzerland, in 2016 to 2017, with German dialogue, was directed by Alexander Charim and choreographed by Teresa Rotemberg. Bryony Dwyer, Christian Miedl and Cheryl Studer starred, respectively, as Julie Jordan, Billy Bigelow and Nettie Fowler. A semi-staged revival by the English National Opera opened at the London Coliseum in 2017. The production was directed by Lonny Price, conducted by David Charles Abell, and starred Alfie Boe as Billy, Katherine Jenkins as Julie and Nicholas Lyndhurst as the Starkeeper. The production received mixed to positive reviews.\n\nThe third Broadway revival began previews in February 2018 at the Imperial Theatre, with an official opening on April 12. It stars Jessie Mueller, Joshua Henry, Renée Fleming, Lindsay Mendez and Alexander Gemignani. The production is directed by Jack O'Brien and choreographed by Justin Peck. The song \"There's Nothin' So Bad for a Woman\" was cut from this revival. Ben Brantley wrote in \"The New York Times\", \"The tragic inevitability of \"Carousel\" has seldom come across as warmly or as chillingly as it does in this vividly reimagined revival. ... [W]ith thoughtful and powerful performances by Mr. Henry and Ms. Mueller, the love story at the show's center has never seemed quite as ill-starred or, at the same time, as sexy. ... [T]he Starkeeper ... assumes new visibility throughout, taking on the role of Billy's angelic supervisor.\" Brantley strongly praised the choreography, all the performances and the designers. He was unconvinced, however, by the \"mother-daughter dialogue that falls so abrasively on contemporary ears\", where Julie tries to justify loving an abusive man, and other scenes in Act 2, particularly those set in heaven, and the optimism of the final scene. Most of the reviewers agreed that while the choreography and performances (especially the singing) are excellent, characterizing the production as sexy and sumptuous, O'Brien's direction does little to help the show deal with modern sensibilities about men's treatment of women, instead indulging in nostalgia.\n\nA film version of the musical was made in 1956, starring Gordon MacRae and Shirley Jones. It follows the musical's story fairly closely, although a prologue, set in the Starkeeper's heaven, was added. The film was released only a few months after the release of the film version of \"Oklahoma!\" It garnered some good reviews, and the soundtrack recording was a best seller. As the same stars appeared in both pictures, however, the two films were often compared, generally to the disadvantage of \"Carousel\". Thomas Hischak, in \"The Rodgers and Hammerstein Encyclopedia\", later wondered \"if the smaller number of \"Carousel\" stage revivals is the product of this often-lumbering<nowiki> [film] </nowiki> musical\".\n\nThere was also an abridged (100 minute) 1967 network television version that starred Robert Goulet, with choreography by Edward Villella.\n\nThe New York Philharmonic presented a staged concert version of the musical from February 28 to March 2, 2013, at Avery Fisher Hall. Kelli O'Hara played Julie, with Nathan Gunn as Billy, Stephanie Blythe as Nettie, Jessie Mueller as Carrie, Jason Danieley as Enoch, Shuler Hensley as Jigger, John Cullum as the Starkeeper, and Kate Burton as Mrs. Mullin. Tiler Peck danced the role of Louise to choreography by Warren Carlyle. The production was directed by John Rando. Charles Isherwood of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"this is as gorgeously sung a production of this sublime 1945 Broadway musical as you are ever likely to hear.\" It was broadcast as part of the PBS \"Live from Lincoln Center\" series, premiering on April 26, 2013.\n\nRodgers designed \"Carousel\" to be an almost continuous stream of music, especially in Act 1. In later years, Rodgers was asked if he had considered writing an opera. He stated that he had been sorely tempted to, but saw \"Carousel\" in operatic terms. He remembered, \"We came very close to opera in the Majestic Theatre. ... There's much that is operatic in the music.\"\nRodgers uses music in \"Carousel\" in subtle ways to differentiate characters and tell the audience of their emotional state. In \"You're a Queer One, Julie Jordan\", the music for the placid Carrie is characterized by even eighth-note rhythms, whereas the emotionally restless Julie's music is marked by dotted eighths and sixteenths; this rhythm will characterize her throughout the show. When Billy whistles a snatch of the song, he selects Julie's dotted notes rather than Carrie's. Reflecting the close association in the music between Julie and the as-yet unborn Louise, when Billy sings in \"Soliloquy\" of his daughter, who \"gets hungry every night\", he uses Julie's dotted rhythms. Such rhythms also characterize Julie's Act 2 song, \"What's the Use of Wond'rin'\". The stable love between Enoch and Carrie is strengthened by her willingness to let Enoch not only plan his entire life, but hers as well. This is reflected in \"When the Children Are Asleep\", where the two sing in close harmony, but Enoch musically interrupts his intended's turn at the chorus with the words \"Dreams that won't be interrupted\". Rodgers biographer Geoffrey Block, in his book on the Broadway musical, points out that though Billy may strike his wife, he allows her musical themes to become a part of him and never interrupts her music. Block suggests that, as reprehensible as Billy may be for his actions, Enoch requiring Carrie to act as \"the little woman\", and his having nine children with her (more than she had found acceptable in \"When the Children are Asleep\") can be considered to be even more abusive.\n\nThe twelve-minute \"bench scene\", in which Billy and Julie get to know each other and which culminates with \"If I Loved You\", according to Hischak, \"is considered the most completely integrated piece of music-drama in the American musical theatre\". The scene is almost entirely drawn from Molnár and is one extended musical piece; Stephen Sondheim described it as \"probably the single most important moment in the revolution of contemporary musicals\". \"If I Loved You\" has been recorded many times, by such diverse artists as Frank Sinatra, Barbra Streisand, Sammy Davis Jr., Mario Lanza and Chad and Jeremy. The D-flat major theme that dominates the music for the second act ballet seems like a new melody to many audience members. It is, however, a greatly expanded development of a theme heard during \"Soliloquy\" at the line \"I guess he'll call me 'The old man' \".\n\nWhen the pair discussed the song that would become \"Soliloquy\", Rodgers improvised at the piano to give Hammerstein an idea of how he envisioned the song. When Hammerstein presented his collaborator with the lyrics after two weeks of work (Hammerstein always wrote the words first, then Rodgers would write the melodies), Rodgers wrote the music for the eight-minute song in two hours. \"What's the Use of Wond'rin' \", one of Julie's songs, worked well in the show but was never as popular on the radio or for recording, and Hammerstein believed that the lack of popularity was because he had concluded the final line, \"And all the rest is talk\" with a hard consonant, which does not allow the singer a vocal climax.\nIrving Berlin later stated that \"You'll Never Walk Alone\" had the same sort of effect on him as the 23rd Psalm. When singer Mel Tormé told Rodgers that \"You'll Never Walk Alone\" had made him cry, Rodgers nodded impatiently. \"You're supposed to.\" The frequently recorded song has become a widely accepted hymn. The cast recording of \"Carousel\" proved popular in Liverpool, like many Broadway albums, and in 1963, the Brian Epstein-managed band, Gerry and the Pacemakers had a number-one hit with the song. At the time, the top ten hits were played before Liverpool F.C. home matches; even after \"You'll Never Walk Alone\" dropped out of the top ten, fans continued to sing it, and it has become closely associated with the soccer team and the city of Liverpool. A BBC program, \"Soul Music\", ranked it alongside \"Silent Night\" and \"Abide With Me\" in terms of its emotional impact and iconic status.\n\nThe cast album of the 1945 Broadway production was issued on 78s, and the score was significantly cut—as was the 1950 London cast recording. Theatre historian John Kenrick notes of the 1945 recording that a number of songs had to be abridged to fit the 78 format, but that there is a small part of \"Soliloquy\" found on no other recording, as Rodgers cut it from the score immediately after the studio recording was made.\n\nA number of songs were cut for the 1956 film, but two of the deleted numbers had been recorded and were ultimately retained on the soundtrack album. The expanded CD version of the soundtrack, issued in 2001, contains all of the singing recorded for the film, including the cut portions, and nearly all of the dance music. The recording of the 1965 Lincoln Center revival featured Raitt reprising the role of Billy. Studio recordings of \"Carousel\"'s songs were released in 1956 (with Robert Merrill as Billy, Patrice Munsel as Julie, and Florence Henderson as Carrie), 1962 and 1987. The 1987 version featured a mix of opera and musical stars, including Samuel Ramey, Barbara Cook and Sarah Brightman. Kenrick recommends the 1962 studio recording for its outstanding cast, including Alfred Drake, Roberta Peters, Claramae Turner, Lee Venora, and Norman Treigle.\n\nBoth the London (1993) and New York (1994) cast albums of the Hytner production contain portions of dialogue that, according to Hischak, speak to the power of Michael Hayden's portrayal of Billy. Kenrick judges the 1994 recording the best all-around performance of \"Carousel\" on disc, despite uneven singing by Hayden, due to Sally Murphy's Julie and the strong supporting cast (calling Audra McDonald the best Carrie he has heard). The Stratford Festival issued a recording in 2015.\n\nThe musical received almost unanimous rave reviews after its opening in 1945. According to Hischak, reviews were not as exuberant as for \"Oklahoma!\" as the critics were not taken by surprise this time. John Chapman of the \"Daily News\" termed it \"one of the finest musical plays I have ever seen and I shall remember it always\". \"The New York Times\"'s reviewer, Lewis Nichols, stated that \"Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein 2d, who can do no wrong, have continued doing no wrong in adapting \"Liliom\" into a musical play. Their \"Carousel\" is on the whole delightful.\" Wilella Waldorf of the \"New York Post\", however, complained, \"\"Carousel\" seemed to us a rather long evening. The \"Oklahoma!\" formula is becoming a bit monotonous and so are Miss de Mille's ballets. All right, go ahead and shoot!\" \"Dance Magazine\" gave Linn plaudits for her role as Louise, stating, \"Bambi doesn't come on until twenty minutes before eleven, and for the next forty minutes, she practically holds the audience in her hand\". Howard Barnes in the \"New York Herald Tribune\" also applauded the dancing: \"It has waited for Miss de Mille to come through with peculiarly American dance patterns for a musical show to become as much a dance as a song show.\"\n\nWhen the musical returned to New York in 1949, \"The New York Times\" reviewer Brooks Atkinson described \"Carousel\" as \"a conspicuously superior musical play ... \"Carousel\", which was warmly appreciated when it opened, seems like nothing less than a masterpiece now.\" In 1954, when \"Carousel\" was revived at City Center, Atkinson discussed the musical in his review:\n\n\"Carousel\" has no comment to make on anything of topical importance. The theme is timeless and universal: the devotion of two people who love each other through thick and thin, complicated in this case by the wayward personality of the man, who cannot fulfill the responsibilities he has assumed.  ... Billy is a bum, but \"Carousel\" recognizes the decency of his motives and admires his independence. There are no slick solutions in \"Carousel\".\n\nStephen Sondheim noted the duo's ability to take the innovations of \"Oklahoma!\" and apply them to a serious setting: \"\"Oklahoma!\" is about a picnic, \"Carousel\" is about life and death.\" Critic Eric Bentley, on the other hand, wrote that \"the last scene of \"Carousel\" is an impertinence: I refuse to be lectured to by a musical comedy scriptwriter on the education of children, the nature of the good life, and the contribution of the American small town to the salvation of souls.\"\n\n\"New York Times\" critic Frank Rich said of the 1992 London production: \"What is remarkable about Mr. Hytner's direction, aside from its unorthodox faith in the virtues of simplicity and stillness, is its ability to make a 1992 audience believe in Hammerstein's vision of redemption, which has it that a dead sinner can return to Earth to do godly good.\" The Hytner production in New York was hailed by many critics as a grittier \"Carousel\", which they deemed more appropriate for the 1990s. Clive Barnes of the \"New York Post\" called it a \"defining \"Carousel\"—hard-nosed, imaginative, and exciting.\"\n\nCritic Michael Billington has commented that \"lyrically [\"Carousel\"] comes perilously close to acceptance of the inevitability of domestic violence.\" BroadwayWorld.com stated in 2013 that \"Carousel\" is now \"considered somewhat controversial in terms of its attitudes on domestic violence\" because Julie chooses to stay with Billy despite the abuse; actress Kelli O'Hara noted that the domestic violence that Julie \"chooses to deal with – is a real, existing and very complicated thing. And exploring it is an important part of healing it.\"\n\nRodgers considered \"Carousel\" his favorite of all his musicals and wrote, \"it affects me deeply every time I see it performed\". In 1999, \"Time\" magazine, in its \"Best of the Century\" list, named \"Carousel\" the Best Musical of the 20th century, writing that Rodgers and Hammerstein \"set the standards for the 20th century musical, and this show features their most beautiful score and the most skillful and affecting example of their musical storytelling\". Hammerstein's grandson, Oscar Andrew Hammerstein, in his book about his family, suggested that the wartime situation made \"Carousel\"'s ending especially poignant to its original viewers, \"Every American grieved the loss of a brother, son, father, or friend ... the audience empathized with <nowiki>[Billy's]</nowiki> all-too-human efforts to offer advice, to seek forgiveness, to complete an unfinished life, and to bid a proper good-bye from beyond the grave.\" Author and composer Ethan Mordden agreed with that perspective:\n\nIf \"Oklahoma!\" developed the moral argument for sending American boys overseas, \"Carousel\" offered consolation to those wives and mothers whose boys would only return in spirit. The meaning lay not in the tragedy of the present, but in the hope for a future where no one walks alone.\n\n\"Note: The Tony Awards were not established until 1947, and so \"Carousel\" was not eligible to win any Tonys at its premiere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47406", "title": "Catherine Parr", "text": "Catherine Parr\n\nCatherine Parr (sometimes alternatively spelled Katherine, Katheryn or Katharine, signed 'Kateryn the Quene KP') () was Queen of England and Ireland (1543–47) as the last of the six wives of King Henry VIII, and the final queen consort of the House of Tudor. She married him on 12 July 1543, and outlived him by one year. With four husbands she is the most-married English queen.\n\nCatherine enjoyed a close relationship with Henry's three children and was personally involved in the education of Elizabeth I and Edward VI. She was influential in Henry's passing of the Third Succession Act in 1543 that restored both his daughters, Mary and Elizabeth, to the line of succession to the throne.\n\nCatherine was appointed Regent from July to September 1544 while Henry was on a military campaign in France and in case he lost his life, she was to rule as regent until Edward came of age. However he did not give her any function in government in his will. In 1543, she published her first book, \"Psalms or Prayers\", anonymously. On account of Catherine's Protestant sympathies, she provoked the enmity of anti-Protestant officials, who sought to turn the King against her; a warrant for her arrest was drawn up in 1545. However, she and the King soon reconciled. Her book \"Prayers or Meditations\" became the first book published by an English queen under her own name. She assumed the role of Elizabeth's guardian following the King's death, and published a second book, \"The Lamentation of a Sinner\".\n\nHenry died on 28 January 1547. After the king's death, Catherine was allowed to keep her jewels and gowns and until her own death was possibly considered queen dowager.\n\nSix months after Henry's death, she married her fourth and final husband, Thomas Seymour, 1st Baron Seymour of Sudeley. The marriage was short-lived, as she died on 7 September 1548, probably of complications of childbirth.\n\nCatherine Parr was born in 1512, probably in August. She was the eldest child (surviving to adulthood) of Sir Thomas Parr, lord of the manor of Kendal in Westmorland, (now Cumbria), and of the former Maud Green, daughter and co-heiress of Sir Thomas Green, lord of Greens Norton, Northamptonshire. Sir Thomas Parr was a descendant of King Edward III, and the Parrs were a substantial northern family which included many knights. Catherine had a younger brother, William, later created first Marquess of Northampton, and younger sister, Anne, later Countess of Pembroke. Sir Thomas was a close companion to King Henry VIII, and was rewarded as such with responsibilities and/or incomes from his positions as Sheriff of Northamptonshire, Master of the Wards, and Comptroller to the King, in addition to being the lord of Kendal. Catherine's mother was a close friend and attendant of Katherine of Aragon, and Catherine Parr was probably named after Queen Katherine, who was her godmother.\n\nIt was once thought that Catherine Parr had been born at Kendal Castle in Westmorland. However, at the time of her birth, Kendal Castle was already in very poor condition. During her pregnancy, Maud Parr remained at court, attending the Queen, and by necessity the Parr family was living in their townhouse at Blackfriars. Historians now consider it unlikely that Sir Thomas would have taken his pregnant wife on an arduous two-week journey north over bad roads to give birth in a crumbling castle in which neither of them seemed to spend much time. Catherine's father died when she was young, and she was close to her mother as she grew up.\n\nCatherine's initial education was similar to other well-born women, but she developed a passion for learning which would continue throughout her life. She was fluent in French, Latin, and Italian, and began learning Spanish after becoming queen. According to biographer Linda Porter, the story that as a child, Catherine could not tolerate sewing and often said to her mother \"my hands are ordained to touch crowns and sceptres, not spindles and needles\" is almost certainly apocryphal.\n\nIn 1529, when she was seventeen, Catherine married Sir Edward Burgh (pronounced and sometimes written as \"Borough\"), a grandson of Edward Burgh, 2nd Baron Burgh. Earlier biographies mistakenly reported that Catherine had married the older Burgh. Following the 2nd Baron Burgh's death in December 1528, Catherine's father-in-law Sir Thomas Burgh was summoned to Parliament in 1529 as Baron Burgh.\n\nCatherine's first husband was in his twenties and may have been in poor health. He served as a feoffee for Thomas Kiddell and as a justice of the peace. His father also secured a joint patent in survivorship with his son for the office of steward of the manor of the soke of Kirton in Lindsey. The younger Sir Edward Burgh died in the spring of 1533, not surviving to inherit the title of Baron Burgh.\n\nFollowing her first husband's demise, Catherine Parr may have spent time with the Dowager Lady Strickland, Katherine Neville, who was the widow of Catherine's cousin Sir Walter Strickland, at the Stricklands' family residence of Sizergh Castle in Westmorland (now in Cumbria). In the summer of 1534, Catherine married secondly John Neville, 3rd Baron Latimer, her father's second cousin and a kinsman of Lady Strickland. With this marriage, Catherine became only the second woman in the Parr family to marry into the peerage.\n\nThe twice-widowed Latimer was twice Catherine's age. From his first marriage to Dorothy de Vere, sister of John de Vere, 14th Earl of Oxford, he had two children, John and Margaret. Although Latimer was in financial difficulties after he and his brothers had pursued legal action to claim the title of Earl of Warwick, Catherine now had a home of her own, a title and a husband with a position and influence in the north.\nLatimer was a supporter of the Catholic Church and had opposed the king's first annulment, his subsequent marriage to Anne Boleyn, and the religious consequences. In October 1536, during the Lincolnshire Rising, Catholic rebels appeared before the Latimers' home threatening violence if Latimer did not join their efforts to reinstate the links between England and Rome. Catherine watched as her husband was dragged away. Between October 1536 and April 1537, Catherine lived alone in fear with her step-children, struggling to survive. It is probable that, in these uncertain times, Katherine's strong reaction against the rebellion strengthened her adherence to the reformed Church of England. In January 1537, during the uprising of the North, Catherine and her step-children were held hostage at Snape Castle in Yorkshire. The rebels ransacked the house and sent word to Lord Latimer, who was returning from London, that if he did not return immediately they would kill his family. When Latimer returned to the castle, he somehow talked the rebels into releasing his family and leaving, but the aftermath would prove to be taxing on the whole family.\n\nThe King and Thomas Cromwell heard conflicting reports as to whether Latimer was a prisoner or a conspirator. As a conspirator, he could be found guilty of treason, forfeiting his estates and leaving Catherine and her step-children penniless. The King himself wrote to the Duke of Norfolk, pressing him to make sure Latimer would \"condemn that villain Aske and submit to our clemency\". Latimer complied. It is likely that Katherine's brother William Parr and his uncle, William Parr, 1st Baron Parr of Horton, who both fought against the rebellion, intervened to save Latimer's life.\n\nAlthough no charges were laid against him, Latimer's reputation, which reflected upon Catherine, was tarnished for the rest of his life. Over the next seven years, the family spent much of their time in the south. For several years, Latimer was blackmailed by Cromwell and forced to do his bidding. After Cromwell's death in 1540, the Latimers reclaimed some dignity. In 1542 the family spent time in London as Latimer attended Parliament. Katherine visited her brother William and her sister Anne at court. It was here that Katherine became acquainted with her future fourth husband, Sir Thomas Seymour. The atmosphere of the court was greatly different from that of the rural estates she knew. There, Katherine could find the latest trends, not only in religious matters, but in less weighty secular matters such as fashion and jewellery.\n\nBy the winter of 1542, Lord Latimer's health had worsened. Catherine nursed her husband until his death in 1543. In his will, Catherine was named as guardian of his daughter, Margaret, and was put in charge of his affairs until his daughter's majority. Latimer left Catherine the manor of Stowe and other properties. He also bequeathed money for supporting his daughter, and in the case that his daughter did not marry within five years, Catherine was to take £30 a year out of the income to support her step-daughter. Catherine was left a rich widow, but after Lord Latimer's death she faced the possibility of having to return north. It is likely that Catherine sincerely mourned her husband; she kept a remembrance of him, his New Testament with his name inscribed inside, until her death.\n\nUsing her late mother's friendship with Henry's first queen, Katherine of Aragon, Catherine took the opportunity to renew her own friendship with the former queen's daughter, Lady Mary. By 16 February 1543, Katherine had established herself as part of Mary's household, and it was there that Catherine caught the attention of the King. Although she had begun a romantic friendship with Sir Thomas Seymour, the brother of the late queen Jane Seymour, she saw it as her duty to accept Henry's proposal over Seymour's. Seymour was given a posting in Brussels to remove him from the king's court.\n\nCatherine married Henry VIII on 12 July 1543 at Hampton Court Palace. She was the first Queen of England also to be Queen of Ireland following Henry's adoption of the title King of Ireland. Catherine and her new husband shared several common ancestors making them multiple cousins. By their mothers they were third cousins-once-removed sharing Sir Richard Wydeville and Joan Bedlisgate; by Henry's mother and Catherine's father they were third cousins once removed sharing Ralph Neville, 1st Earl of Westmorland and Lady Joan Beaufort; and by their fathers they were double fourth cousins once removed sharing Thomas Holland, 2nd Earl of Kent and Lady Alice FitzAlan and John of Gaunt, 1st Duke of Lancaster and Katherine Swynford.\n\nOn becoming queen, Catherine installed her former stepdaughter, Margaret Neville, as her lady-in-waiting, and gave her stepson John's wife a position in her household. Catherine was partially responsible for reconciling Henry with his daughters from his first two marriages, and also developed a good relationship with Henry's son Edward. When she became queen, her uncle Lord Parr of Horton became her Lord Chamberlain.\n\nHenry went on his last, unsuccessful, campaign to France from July to September 1544, leaving Catherine as his regent. Because her regency council was composed of sympathetic members, including her uncle, Thomas Cranmer (the Archbishop of Canterbury) and Lord Hertford, Catherine obtained effective control and was able to rule as she saw fit. She handled provision, finances and musters for Henry's French campaign, signed five royal proclamations, and maintained constant contact with her lieutenant in the northern Marches, Lord Shrewsbury, over the complex and unstable situation with Scotland. It is thought that her actions as regent, together with her strength of character and noted dignity, and later religious convictions, greatly influenced her stepdaughter Lady Elizabeth (the future Elizabeth I of England).\nThe Queen's religious views were viewed with suspicion by anti-Protestant officials such as Stephen Gardiner (the Bishop of Winchester) and Lord Wriothesley (the Lord Chancellor). Although brought up as a Catholic, she later became sympathetic to and interested in the \"New Faith\". By the mid-1540s, she came under suspicion that she was actually a Protestant. This view is supported by the strong reformed ideas that she revealed after Henry's death, when her second book, \"Lamentacion of a synner\" (Lamentation of a Sinner), was published in late 1547. The book promoted the Protestant concept of justification by faith alone, which the Catholic Church deemed to be heresy. It is unlikely that she developed these views in the short time between Henry's death and the publication of the book. Her sympathy with Anne Askew, the Protestant martyr who fiercely opposed the Catholic belief of transubstantiation, also suggests that she was more than merely sympathetic to the new religion.\n\nIn 1546, the Bishop of Winchester and Lord Wriothesley tried to turn the king against her. An arrest warrant was drawn up for her and rumours abounded across Europe that the King was attracted to her close friend, the Duchess of Suffolk. However, she saw the warrant and managed to reconcile with the King after vowing that she had only argued about religion with him to take his mind off the suffering caused by his ulcerous leg. The following day an armed guard who was unaware of the reconciliation tried to arrest her while she walked with the King.\n\nShortly before he died, Henry made provision for an allowance of £7,000 per year for Catherine to support herself. He further ordered that, after his death, Catherine, though a queen dowager, should be given the respect of a queen of England, as if he were still alive. Catherine retired from court after the coronation of her stepson, Edward VI, on 31 January 1547, to her home at Old Manor in Chelsea.\n\nFollowing Henry's death, Catherine's old love and the new king's uncle, Thomas Seymour (who was soon created 1st Baron Seymour of Sudeley), returned to court. Catherine was quick to accept when Seymour renewed his suit of marriage. Since only six months had passed since the death of King Henry, Seymour knew that the Regency council would not agree to a petition for the queen dowager to marry so soon. Sometime near the end of May, Catherine and Seymour married in secret. King Edward VI and council were not informed of the union for several months. When their union became public knowledge, it caused a small scandal. The King and Lady Mary were very much displeased by the union. After being censured and reprimanded by the council, Seymour wrote to the Lady Mary asking her to intervene on his behalf. Mary became furious at his forwardness and tasteless actions and refused to help. Mary even went as far as asking her half-sister, Lady Elizabeth, not to interact with Queen Catherine any further.\n\nDuring this time, Catherine began having altercations with her brother-in-law, Edward Seymour, 1st Duke of Somerset. Like Thomas, Edward was the King's uncle, and also was the Lord Protector. A rivalry developed between Catherine and his wife, her own former lady-in-waiting, Anne Seymour, Duchess of Somerset, which became particularly acute over the matter of Catherine's jewels. The Duchess argued that as queen dowager, Catherine was no longer entitled to wear the jewels belonging to the wife of the king. Instead she, as the wife of the protector, should be the one to wear them. Eventually, the Duchess won the argument, which left her relationship with Catherine permanently damaged; the relationship between the two Seymour brothers also worsened as a result, since Thomas saw the whole dispute as a personal attack by his brother on his social standing.\n\nIn November 1547, Catherine published her second book, \"Lamentation of a Sinner\". The book was a success and widely praised. In early 1548, Catherine invited Lady Elizabeth and her cousin, Lady Jane Grey, to stay in the couple's household at Sudeley Castle in Gloucestershire. The dowager queen promised to provide education for both. Queen Catherine's house came to be known as a respected place of learning for young women.\nIn March 1548, at the age of 35, Catherine became pregnant. This pregnancy was a surprise as Catherine had not conceived during her first three marriages. During this time, Seymour began to take an interest in Lady Elizabeth. Seymour had reputedly plotted to marry her before marrying Catherine, and it was reported later that Catherine discovered the two in an embrace. On a few occasions before the situation risked getting completely out of hand, according to the deposition of Kat Ashley, Catherine appears not only to have acquiesced in episodes of horseplay, but actually to have assisted her husband. Whatever actually happened, Elizabeth was sent away in May 1548 to stay with Sir Anthony Denny's household at Cheshunt and never saw her beloved stepmother again, although the two corresponded. Elizabeth immediately wrote a letter to the Queen and Seymour after she left Chelsea. The letter demonstrates a sort of remorse.\n\nKat Ashley, whose deposition was given after Catherine had died and Seymour had been arrested for another attempt at marrying Lady Elizabeth, had developed a crush on Seymour during her time at Chelsea and actually encouraged her charge to \"play along.\" At one point she even made a comment at how lucky Elizabeth would have been to have a husband like Seymour. Ashley even told Lady Elizabeth that Seymour had confided his sentiments to her of wanting to marry Elizabeth before Catherine. After Catherine's death, Ashley strongly encouraged Elizabeth to write to Seymour offering her condolences; to \"comfort him of his sorrow...for he would think great kindness therein.\"\n\nCatherine gave birth to her only child, a daughter, Mary Seymour, named after Catherine's stepdaughter Mary on 30 August 1548. Catherine died eight days later, on 7 September 1548, at Sudeley Castle in Gloucestershire, from what is thought to be childbed fever. This illness was common due to the lack of hygiene around childbirth.\n\nThomas Seymour was beheaded for treason on 20 March 1549, and Mary Seymour was taken to live with the Dowager Duchess of Suffolk, a close friend of Catherine's. Catherine's other jewels were kept in a coffer with five drawers at Sudeley and this was sent to the Tower of London on 20 April 1549, and her clothes and papers followed in May. After a year and a half, on 17 March 1550, Mary's property was restored to her by an Act of Parliament, easing the burden of the infant's household on the duchess. The last mention of Mary Seymour on record is on her second birthday, and although stories circulated that she eventually married and had children, most historians believe she died as a child at Grimsthorpe Castle in Lincolnshire.\n\nIn 1782, John Locust discovered the coffin of Queen Catherine in the ruins of the Sudeley Castle chapel. He opened the coffin and observed that the body, after 234 years, was in a surprisingly good condition. Reportedly the flesh on one of her arms was still white and moist. After taking a few locks of her hair, he closed the coffin and returned it to the grave.\n\nThe coffin was opened a few more times in the next ten years and in 1792 some drunken men buried it upside down and in a rough way. When the coffin was officially reopened in 1817, nothing but a skeleton remained. Her remains were then moved to the tomb of Lord Chandos whose family owned the castle at that time. The tomb was carefully restored by order of the late Duchess of Buckingham, Lady Anne Greville, daughter of the 3rd Duke of Chandos. In later years the chapel was rebuilt by Sir George Gilbert Scott, who erected a canopied tomb with a recumbent marble figure by John Birnie Philip.\n\nThe full-length portrait of Catherine Parr by Master John in the National Portrait Gallery was for many years thought to represent Lady Jane Grey. The painting has recently been re-identified as Catherine Parr, with whose name it was originally associated. The full-length format was very rare in portraits of this date, and was usually used only for very important sitters. Lady Jane Grey, although of royal blood, was a relatively obscure child of eight when this was painted (circa 1545); it was to be another eight years before the short-lived attempt at placing her on the throne. The distinctive crown-shaped jewel the sitter wears can be traced to an inventory of jewels that belonged to Catherine Parr, and the cameo beads appear to have belonged to Catherine Howard, from whom they would have passed to her successor as queen.\n\nCatherine Parr first appeared as a character in cinemas in 1934, in Alexander Korda's film \"The Private Life of Henry VIII\". Charles Laughton played the king, with actress Everley Gregg appearing as Catherine. The film makes no attempt to depict the historical Parr's character, instead portraying the Queen for comic effect as an over-protective nag.\n\nIn 1952, a romanticised version of Thomas Seymour's obsession with Elizabeth I saw Stewart Granger as Seymour, Jean Simmons as the young Elizabeth and screen legend Deborah Kerr as Parr in the popular film \"Young Bess\".\n\nIn 1970, in \"Catherine Parr\", a 90-minute BBC television drama (the last in a 6-part series, entitled \"The Six Wives of Henry VIII\") Catherine was played by Rosalie Crutchley opposite Keith Michell's Henry. In this, Catherine's love of religion and intellectual capabilities were highlighted. Crutchley reprised her role as Catherine Parr for the first episode of the 6-part follow-up series on the life of Elizabeth I in 1971, \"Elizabeth R\".\n\nIn 1972, Barbara Leigh-Hunt played a matronly Catherine in \"Henry VIII and his Six Wives\", with Keith Michell once again playing Henry.\n\nIn 2000, Jennifer Wigmore played Catherine Parr in the American television drama aimed at teenagers, \"Elizabeth: Red Rose of the House of Tudor\". A year later, Caroline Lintott played Katherine in Professor David Starkey's documentary series on Henry's queens.\n\nIn October 2003, in a two-part British television series on \"Henry VIII\", Catherine was played by Clare Holman. The part was relatively small, given that the drama's second part focused more on the stories of Jane Seymour and Catherine Howard.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Margical History Tour,\" Catherine is portrayed by Agnes Skinner as an elderly widow during Marge's retelling of Henry's reign. Henry (portrayed by Homer) regrets his marriage to her because of her age.\n\nIn March 2007, Washington University in St. Louis performed the A.E. Hotchner Playwriting Competition winner \"Highness,\" which documents the life of Catherine Parr and her relationships with King Henry and his daughter, the future Queen Elizabeth I, to whom she was a stepmother.\n\nCatherine Parr was portrayed by actress Joely Richardson on the fourth and final season of Showtime's \"The Tudors\", which was first broadcast in spring 2010. Richardson's portrayal was largely faithful to what has been recorded of Parr's character.\n\nCatherine features in \"The Dark Rose\", Volume 2 of The Morland Dynasty a series of historical novels by author Cynthia Harrod-Eagles. The lead female character, Nanette Morland, is educated alongside Catherine and is later re-acquainted with her when she becomes Queen. She has been the subject of several novels, including two titled \"The Sixth Wife,\" and she is a supporting character in C. J. Sansom's \"Matthew Shardlake\" mysteries, \"Revelation\", \"Heartstone\" and \"Lamentation\".\n\nIn 2015, the Stratford Festival in Stratford Ontario debuted a new play called \"The Last Wife\" about Catherine Parr and her relationships with Henry VIII, Thomas Seymour and Henry's three children. The play was written by Kate Hennig. Maev Beaty played Katherine Parr.\n\nIn the retelling of Henry VIII's sixth wife by Sara Pascoe in Drunk History (UK version, series 2, episode 9) Catherine Parr is portrayed by Emma Bunton.\n\nRick Wakeman recorded the piece \"Katherine Parr\" for his 1973 album, \"The Six Wives of Henry VIII\". On his 2009 live version of the album the track's spelling is changed to \"Katherine Parr\".\n\nThe popular myth that Catherine Parr acted more as her husband's nurse than his wife was born in the 19th century from the work of Victorian moralist and proto-feminist, Agnes Strickland. David Starkey challenged this assumption in his book \"Six Wives,\" in which he points out that such a situation would have been vaguely obscene to the Tudors—given that Henry had a huge staff of physicians waiting on him hand and foot, and Catherine was expected to live up to the heavy expectations of Queenly dignity. Parr is usually portrayed in cinema and television by actresses who are much older than the queen, who was in her early 30s when she was Henry's wife and was about 36 years old at the time of her death. This change is usually an artistic licence taken to highlight Parr's maturity in comparison to Henry's previous queens, or at least a symptom of the longer lifespans enjoyed by modern audiences (who might be confused as to why a 30-year-old is considered much older and more experienced).\n\nCatherine's good sense, moral rectitude, compassion, firm religious commitment and strong sense of loyalty and devotion have earned her many admirers among historians. These include David Starkey, feminist activist Karen Lindsey, Lady Antonia Fraser, Alison Weir, Carolly Erickson, Alison Plowden, Susan James and Linda Porter. Biographers have described her as strong-willed and outspoken, physically desirable, susceptible (like Queen Elizabeth) to roguish charm and even willing to resort to obscene language if the occasion suited.\n\nSome of Catherine Parr's writings are available from the Women Writers' Project.\n\nSeveral novels also feature Katherine Parr:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43253804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43253804", "title": "CiteAb", "text": "CiteAb\n\nCiteAb Ltd is a life science data company company located in Bath, England that offers an antibody and biochemicals search tool to aid biomedical scientists in their research.\n\nCiteAb started in 2013 as an academic project by Dr Andrew Chalmers, a senior lecturer at the University of Bath. The resource was established to help scientific researchers find suitable antibodies for their experiments - such antibodies can be helpful in context of screenings, therapeutic development, and drug discovery. \n\nCiteAb ranks antibodies by citations, making it possible for researchers to find antibodies or biochemicals that have been successfully used in past research papers. The accompanying citations are listed, so the data contained within the publications can also be checked. The CiteAb platform was built in collaboration with technology company Storm Consultancy, in Bath, in 2012. A trial website was soft-launched in September 2012 before the full website was publicly launched in September 2013. In June 2013, the number of antibodies listed by CiteAb reached the one million mark. In July 2014 the company announced it had 2 million antibodies in its database. In 2018 CiteAb added a biochemical search to its platform. \n\nThe company spun out from the University of Bath in January 2014, and CiteAb Limited was formed.\n\nInitial funding was provided as part of an Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) ‘Knowledge Transfer Account' and the Higher Education Funding Council for England’s ‘Innovation Fund’ – with funds administered by the University of Bath’s Research Development and Support Office – to enable the growth and development of CiteAb prior to its spin-out.\n\nCiteAb was winner of the Best Startup at the 2013 Bath Digital Festival. It was awarded funding from the West of England Growth Fund, administered by the West of England Local Enterprise Partnership.\n\nIn August 2014, CiteAb was shortlisted for the Bath Business Awards in the category 'Innovative Startup Business of the Year'. On 11 September 2014 the company was named as the winner of the Bath Business Awards 'Innovative Startup Company' category.\n\nIn March 2018 CiteAb won the 'Export' category in the Medilink South West awards - at that point the company's products and services are used by between 50k and 100k individuals per month from 196 countries and 1,400 institutions.\n"}
{"id": "33068703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33068703", "title": "Conservatorship of Wendland", "text": "Conservatorship of Wendland\n\nIn 2001, in the case Conservatorship of Wendland, also known as \"Wendland v. Wendland\", and the Robert Wendland case, the Supreme Court of California unanimously ruled that Rose Wendland, the wife of Robert Wendland, in the absence of a durable power of attorney for health care (DPAHC), did not have the authority to withhold artificial nutrition and hydration in her husband's behalf.\nThe Court recognized that patients unable to make a decision for themselves should receive special protection according to the right to life and right to privacy provided by the California constitution.\n\nIn 1993, Robert Wendland became permanently physically and mentally disabled after being severely injured in an automobile accident. After spending 16 months in a coma, Robert Wendland emerged with severe cognitive impairment, being unable to \"swallow, control his bowels or bladder, communicate verbally or nonverbally, or act volitionally,\" but he was able to react to simple commands with much repetitive coaching. Robert's wife and children also believed that he was unable to recognize them.\n\nTwo years later, after being informed by Robert's physicians that Robert had no reasonable chance of improvement, his wife, Rose, and children requested that Robert's physicians to remove the feeding tube and allow Robert to die. According to Rose and Robert's brother, who had both spoken to Robert before his accident about living on life support or being kept alive through a feeding tube, Robert would not have wanted to live under those conditions.\n\nThis decision was challenged by Robert's estranged mother, Florence, who sued Rose in order to prevent the removal of the feeding tube from her son, and the lawsuit lasted for six years until the decision by the California Supreme Court in 2001.\n\nThe trial court held that the conservator, Rose Wendland, had to prove by clear and convincing evidence that removing the feeding tube would have been what Robert Wendland wanted or that it would have been in his best interest. The Court of Appeal for the Third District reversed; the California Supreme Court reversed, upholding the trial court.\nA previous California case\nhad held that a conservator could withhold artificial nutrition and hydration from a patient in a persistent vegetative state; the \"Wendland\" court saw that situation as significantly different from that of a patient who is conscious but incompetent, because the latter might perceive the effects of starvation and dehydration.\nThe Court also distinguished between an agent designated by the patient and a conservator appointed by a court;\nthe former could be assumed to reliably represent the patient's wishes, but the same could not necessarily be assumed for the latter.\nBecause of this—and because of the serious consequences of the decision—the Court required the high standard of proof from a conservator in order to protect a person's right to life and right to privacy provided by Article I, Section 1 of the California constitution.\nThe Court noted that the majority of health-care decisions require only preponderance of the evidence,\nthe normal standard in civil cases.\n\nOn several occasions, Robert had allegedly told Rose and others that he would not want to live like a \"vegetable\".\nThe trial court concluded that these statements did not rise to clear and convincing evidence; the Supreme Court agreed. Law professor Lawrence Nelson, counsel for Rose Wendland, believed that these statements did provide a preponderance of the evidence, and suggested that had Robert given Rose power of attorney for health care, the Court would have respected Rose's decision to remove Robert's feeding tube.\n\nThe Court did not address the requirements when there is no advance directive, agent, surrogate, or conservator. An article in the \"Western Journal of Medicine\" discussed this situation, and the two authors disagreed on the required standard of proof. Attorney Jon Eisenberg, who submitted an amicus curiae brief in support of Rose and Robert Wendland, believed that the Court plainly intended its opinion to apply narrowly to the question before it, so that in such circumstances, physicians may withdraw life-sustaining treatment at the direction of family or friends who can show by preponderance of the evidence that this would coincide with the patient's wishes. But Eisenberg's co-author, law professor Clark Kelso, believed that the opinion's reasoning compels the conclusion that clear and convincing evidence is required.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "207193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207193", "title": "David Bloom", "text": "David Bloom\n\nDavid Jerome Bloom (May 22, 1963 – April 6, 2003) was an American television journalist (co-anchor of \"Weekend Today\" and reporter) until his sudden death in 2003 after a deep vein thrombosis (DVT) became a pulmonary embolism.\n\nDavid Bloom was born in Edina, Minnesota, the son of Laura Jean (née Carmichael) and Harold James Bloom. He was an avid ice hockey player and state champion in high school debating in the National Forensic League. Bloom attended Pitzer College in Claremont, California, from 1981 to 1985, where he majored in political science.\n\nIn 1985, Bloom was ranked the top speaker in the nation for intercollegiate policy debate. He and his partner, Greg Mastel, were ranked the top debate team in the nation before entering the National Debate Tournament of 1985. They lost in quarter finals to Loyola Marymount.\n\nBloom was survived by his wife, Melanie, and three daughters: Nicole, Christine, and Ava. The Blooms were residents of Pound Ridge, New York at the time of his death. After his death, his widow began working with the \"Coalition to Prevent DVT\" and remarried to Daniel McNulty in 2008.\n\nHe began his television career at WKBT-TV in La Crosse, Wisconsin, covering local government stories. Bloom worked as a general assignment reporter at KWCH-TV in Wichita, Kansas from 1988-89.\n\nIn 1989, Bloom joined NBC's WTVJ in Miami. He covered Hurricane Andrew and while reporting the aftermath he chased off would-be looters. In 1991, he won a regional Emmy for investigative journalism for his report on South Florida's role in the shipment of arms to Iraq. He won both the Peabody Award and the RTNDA Edward R. Murrow Award for his hurricane coverage.\n\nIn 1993, Bloom joined NBC News as correspondent in Chicago, Illinois, and moved to Los Angeles, California in 1995. Bloom covered the presidential campaigns of 1996 and 2000 for the network and in 1997 became NBC's White House correspondent. Former President Clinton said that Bloom's \"integrity and good humor will be missed.\" \n\nDuring his tenure with NBC, Bloom reported on major stories including presidential races, the September 11 attacks, the Washington-area sniper shootings, and the war in Bosnia. According to the late Tim Russert, former NBC Washington bureau chief, \"You couldn't keep him away from a story. \"Whenever something was breaking, he wanted to be there.\" In March 2002, Bloom became co-anchor of Weekend Today along with Soledad O'Brien, a position he served until his death.\n\nBloom's name was pegged to a vehicle he used in Iraq, the \"Bloom Mobile.\" It was a Ford F250 4 wheel drive Flatbed truck with a SeaTel stabilized marine dish retrofitted by Miramar, Florida-based company Maritime Telecommunications Network, with live television and satellite transmission equipment so he could continuously broadcast reports as troops made their way toward Baghdad. Reporting live, round-the-clock, as the American armored column fought north across the desert toward Baghdad, Bloom commented offhandedly on the cramped conditions, excessive heat and lack of sleep that came with the mission.\n\nOn April 6, 2003, Bloom was traveling with the U.S. Third Infantry Division in Iraq while covering the war in Iraq. He had been on assignment in Iraq for several weeks when a blood clot in his leg (known as deep vein thrombosis or DVT) traveled to an artery in his lungs, causing a fatal pulmonary embolism. \"The clot in Bloom's leg was likely brought on by spending long days and nights cramped inside armored vehicles. One night he called Melanie from a satellite phone in the middle of the night, exposing himself to hostile fire just to get a few minutes outside of an armored tank because his legs had been cramping up.\"\n\nIn 2006 The National Association of Radio and Television Broadcasters established an award to honor excellence in enterprise reporting. ABC \"World News Tonight\" co-anchor Bob Woodruff received the award in its first year.\n\n"}
{"id": "11663975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11663975", "title": "Duke of Oil", "text": "Duke of Oil\n\nThe Duke of Oil (Earl J. Dukeston) is a fictional cyborg supervillain appearing in comic books published by DC Comics. He first appeared in \"Outsiders\" (1st series) #6 (April 1986), and was created by Mike W. Barr and Jim Aparo.\n\nThe Duke of Oil is a cyborg supervillain who has fought both the Outsiders and Green Arrow.\n\nHis first incident involving the Outsiders happens when Dukeston Oil wants to examine Station Markovia, an automated ocean research station off the coast of Los Angeles. This also is the Outsiders current headquarters.\n\nGeo-Force and Dr. Jace give Earl a tour of the base. After it is finished, Dukeston attacks them both. It is revealed Dukeston is an agent of unknown forces that wish to steal Jace's research. Dukestons says that twenty years ago, he was injured in an explosion at his company. He awoke in this body and was told it would take about two decades to grow a clone body. In the meantime, the Duke works as their agent.\n\nOther members of the Outsiders appear. Looker discovers the man has no brainwaves. Katana impales the man's head with her sword and it is discovered he has no actual brain. Dukeston realizes he is fully machine. This drives him insane. He escapes into the ocean below and his body is not recovered.\n\nHe recently reappeared in \"Green Arrow\" #46 as a member of the Secret Society of Super Villains. Green Arrow, the new Speedy and Arsenal deal with him and the problem of a locked-down bank that contains innocent people and a bomb. The Duke has also gained new powers of controlling nearby mechanical devices. He is subdued before he can do any lasting harm.\n\nWhen first re-introduced in the new \"Green Arrow\" series, the Duke of Oil was depicted as an \"eight-foot tall cowboy.\" He wore a brown, Western-style suit, cowboy boots, bolo tie, and ten-gallon hat. Soon after, he revealed his true form by tearing off his clothing and artificial skin, showing himself to be a massive metal construct with extremely flexible limbs and joints. After his face and hair are destroyed, it is revealed that his head is also fully artificial.\n\nThe Duke has a malleable body and the ability to control machines telekinetically.\n\n"}
{"id": "702214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=702214", "title": "E.V.O.: Search for Eden", "text": "E.V.O.: Search for Eden\n\nE.V.O.: Search for Eden is a side-scrolling action video game developed by Almanic Corporation and published by Enix for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. Released in 1992 for Japanese audiences, the game was later translated and released in North America in 1993. Combining traditional platforming mechanics with experience and leveling mechanics originating from role playing games, \"E.V.O.: Search for Eden\" involves the player navigating a creature through a number of side-scrolling levels while undergoing bodily evolution to cope with ever-changing environments. It is heavily based on Almanic's original title, \"46 Okunen Monogatari ~The Shinka Ron~\", released exclusively in Japan for the PC-9801 home computer in 1990.\n\nSpanning a period of over a billion years, the game's story involves Gaia, daughter of the sun and mystical embodiment of the Earth, guiding the player through five distinct geological periods of the planet's history. Beginning the game as a fish, the player must travel across the planet defeating enemies and gaining the strength to evolve into more powerful and complex organisms before eventually earning a chance to enter the paradise realm of Eden, becoming Gaia's immortal partner. Most critics enjoyed the originality of \"E.V.O.: Search for Eden\", but criticized the tedious gameplay and subpar graphics. \n\n\"E.V.O.: Search for Eden\" is a side-scrolling platformer action game where players must navigate a creature of their own design across a number of environments resembling Earth's past. The game is divided into five distinct geological periods: the Cambrian Period and the Ordovician Period of the Paleozoic Era (\"The World Before Land\") from 500 million years ago to 450 million years ago, then the Carboniferous period (\"Early Creatures of Land\"), the Mesozoic Era (\"Age of Dinosaurs\"), the late Neogene period (\"Ice Age\"), and finally the early Quaternary period (\"Early Man\"). Each period has its own map screen, which is divided into various levels. While each era takes historical liberties with both its inhabitants and time frames, the player's choices for evolution are dependent on the current era of play, ranging from aquatic bodies during the Age of Fish to mammalian physiology during the Age of Man.\n\nAs the player progresses through each level, other organisms are encountered who must be confronted by biting, ramming them with horns, jumping on them until they are defeated,or jumping over them to avoid them. Defeated enemies leave behind meat which the player can consume to grant them \"evolution points\" used towards upgrading specific body parts. The body of the character controlled by the player is divided into eight sections which can be upgraded by spending evolution points, making them stronger as well as changing their appearance. New abilities such as tail swings, greater jumping ability and increased movement speed can also be obtained through evolution.\n\nDuring gameplay, the player will also encounter crystals that either display hints and tips, grant large amounts of Evolution Points or transform their character into a unique body for a limited time. As the player takes damage from enemy creatures, one may restore health at any time by either consuming the meat of their foes, eating nearby plant life, or by undergoing selective evolution. At the end of each level, the player must face a stronger boss character in order to progress, requiring much more effort to defeat than a typical foe. There is no game over mechanism, if the player's character loses all their health points the player is revived by Gaia and sent back to the game's map screen with a deduction of roughly half of their Evolution Points. The game utilizes a built-in battery backup save system for storing game data. The player may record progress directly to the cartridge to be continued at another time, and store up to fifty previously created creatures using the game's built-in \"Book of Life\" feature. Creatures stored in this index have the option to be recalled at any time when the player encounters special crystals during the quest.\n\n\"E.V.O.: Search for Eden\" tells a mythical saga of life's evolution on Earth, with a subtext of a creation myth and polytheistic evolution. The player takes the role of one of many billions of lifeforms created by Gaia (personification of the planet Earth), the nurturing and benevolent daughter of Sol, the Sun. Among the creatures known as \"life\", there is a competition to evolve, and the best lifeform will eventually be granted the privilege of entering the Garden of Eden and becoming the husband and partner of Gaia. As the game progresses, it soon becomes apparent some mysterious external force is interfering with evolution on Earth in a destructive manner. Strange crystals not native to Gaia appear across the planet, and creatures that eat the crystals are transformed into monstrously powerful beings that dominate all other lifeforms, overconsume resources and disrupt the flow of evolution. In each Age the player character is tasked with confronting the species transformed by the crystals and defeating them so that the evolution of life can continue as intended.\n\nIn the final Age, the Age of Eden, the player learns a mysterious entity is controlling the world's other lifeforms and sending them against the player. This entity turns out to be Bolbox, a lifeform that has evolved into a freakish and evil advanced being by consuming the crystals, believing itself to be the first human, but in reality is a gigantic single-celled organism. In the game's final battle, the player and Bolbox fight to determine who will gain entry into Eden and become Gaia's partner. Bolbox is defeated, and the player joins Gaia in Eden and is granted the gift of intelligence. It is also revealed the crystals were introduced to Earth by an advanced civilization on Mars, who misguidedly wished to help Earth by speeding its evolution with the crystals. Upon realizing the dangers the crystals create, the Martians decide to leave Earth alone and observe until it becomes advanced enough for them to interact with.\n\n\"E.V.O.: Search for Eden\" was developed by Almanic Corporation in early 1992 and was headed by project director Takashi Yoneda, who had designed Quintet's \"Actraiser\" three years prior. The title was largely based on the company's earlier successful role-playing game E.V.O.: The Theory of Evolution under the Japanese title , released for the NEC PC-9801 home computer in 1990, and carries over much of the game's theme, designs and story. Although the design staff had opted to give a fantastic rather than scientific representation of evolutionary theories and planet development, the crew was assisted by teachers from local schools to provide information on geology and biology to the programmers. While some of the game's designers were similar to that of the original PC-9801 title, much of the staff for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System version was made up of a younger, less experienced crew, which Yoneda stated made things \"interesting\" during development.\n\nThe North American version was translated and marketed by Enix America Corporation. While originally planned for a March 1993 release, the game was beset by last-minute delays for several months until the following June. The company would later hold a promotional contest where players could send in photographs of their favorite customized creatures for a chance to win a free Enix game.\n\nThe music for \"E.V.O.: Search for Eden\" was originally composed by Koichi Sugiyama for \"46 Okunen Monogatari ~The Shinka Ron~\". Motoaki Takenouchi, a former student of Sugiyama's, adapted the music for \"E.V.O.\". In late 1992, select pieces from the game were performed by the Tokyo City Philharmonic Orchestra during their second annual Game Music Concert series in Tokyo, Japan. Two of these pieces, \"Great Hymn of Nature, Earth\" and \"Sorrow\" were made available on the \"Orchestra Game Music Concert 2\" album the following November. In December of the same year, an official soundtrack for \"46 Okunen Monogatari ~The Shinka Ron~\" was released exclusively in Japan by Apollon Records. Rather than featuring the same instrumentation present in the game, the \"46 Okunen Monogatari Symphonic Synth Suite\" soundtrack was composed of music also re-recorded and arranged by Takenouchi.\n\nThe game received mild but generally positive reviews during its initial release in North America. \"GamePro\" magazine praised the game's originality and overall design but found fault with the visual presentation of the title, stating \"although this game has an interesting concept, the sluggish game play and average graphics may make you return to the caves.\" The publication also found the background music lacking, stating the game's compositions ranged from \"soothing\" to \"annoying\". \"Nintendo Power\" called attention to the game's ingenuity and theme, remarking that \"[t]he idea of this game is great and the weird creatures you can evolve can be both bizarre and hilarious.\" However, the magazine felt the game's representation of the concept of evolution was too fanciful, also stating the process of obtaining power-up items being \"tedious\". \"Nintendo Power\" would later give the game an honorable mention during its \"Top Titles of 1993\" awards segment as one of the most innovative games of the year.\n\nAllGame was even less positive about the game, giving it two stars out of five. They praised the challenge that the bosses presented, and the quantity of creatures the player could evolve into, but noted that the game was \"marred by mediocre graphics and sluggish gameplay.\" Although not officially released in Europe, the game was covered in an import review by \"Super Play\" in late 1993 and although they found the game's strategy components to be \"top-notch\", the rest of the game was regarded as \"very mediocre\", garnering only a 47% average score.\n\nMore contemporary reviews of the game were largely positive. In February 2007, IGN ranked \"E.V.O.: Search for Eden\" second in its list of the greatest \"Prehistoric Games\" of all time, stating \"[n]o other title before or since has so effectively captured the essence of evolutionary theory in videogame form.\" The website additionally likened the title to the then-upcoming and highly anticipated \"Spore\" by Maxis Games, calling \"E.V.O.: Search for Eden\" the \"original success story\" in life-simulation gaming and the standard for which it would be judged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3918599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3918599", "title": "Emerentiana", "text": "Emerentiana\n\nSaint Emerentiana was a Roman martyr, who lived around the start of the 4th century. Her feast day is January 23. \n\nAccording to the legend of St. Agnes, Emerentiana was her foster-sister. St. Agnes was a rich Roman heiress who was martyred after refusing her engagement due to her Christian religion. Emerentiana’s mother was the wet nurse and nanny of Saint Agnes. \n\nA few days after Agnes' death, Emerentiana, who was a catechumen still learning about Christianity before being officially baptized, went to the tomb to pray and was suddenly attacked by the pagans stoned to death by the crowd.\nHer feast day is January 23, She is represented as a young girl who either has stones in her lap and lilies in her hand, or as being stoned to death by a mob. Her tomb is in the church of Sant'Agnese fuori le mura in Rome. An altar dedicated to her with a marble relief by Ercole Ferrata depicting her martyrdom is in Sant'Agnese in Agone.\n\nEmerentiana had a tiny cameo role in Cardinal Nicholas Wiseman's novel, \"Fabiola\", where she is seen mourning for Agnes right after the latter's martyrdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "12813345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12813345", "title": "Figure (horse)", "text": "Figure (horse)\n\nFigure was a small bay stallion owned by Justin Morgan; he became the foundation sire of the Morgan horse breed.\n\nThe stallion was born in West Springfield, Massachusetts in 1789. The small, dark colt is believed to have been sired by an English Thoroughbred stallion named \"True Briton\", also known as \"Beautiful Bay\" and \"Traveller\", which was foaled in 1768. Figure's dam was of \"Wild-Air\" breeding, sired by Diamond, foaled in 1784 in West Springfield. The dam was bred by Justin Morgan, for whom the breed is named. Figure is thought to have stood about 14 hh (1.42 m), and to have weighed about 950 lb (430 kg). He was known for his prepotency, passing on his distinctive looks, conformation, temperament, and athleticism.\n\nIn 1792, Figure was advertised for stud before he was given as payment for a debt to Justin Morgan (1747-1798), a singing teacher and one-time Randolph, Vermont, Town Clerk. Morgan owned Figure from 1792-1795, advertising him for stud in Randolph and Lebanon, New Hampshire (1793), and Royalton, Vermont (1794), and Williston and Hinesburg, Vermont (1795). He leased Figure to Robert Evans in the fall of 1795 to clear land for a Mr. Fisk at a rate of $15.00 a year.\n\nMorgan later traded the horse to Samuel Allen for land in Moretown, Vermont. Allen sold the stallion later that year to William Rice of Woodstock, Vermont.\n\nIn 1796, Figure raced in a sweepstakes in Brookfield, Vermont, beating New York horses to win $50. That year, he was advertised at stud by Johnathan Shepard of Montpelier, who also raced him in several match races in which he did well. Figure became known as the \"Justin Morgan horse.\"\n\nFigure was traded again in 1797, along with a blacksmith shop, to James Hawkins. In 1801 he was recorded as owned by Robert Evans of Randolph. Evans owned the horse until 1804, using the stallion for logging, racing, and breeding, until he fell into debt to Colonel John Goss. Goss collected the horse as part of the debt, and used him to review troops. He entered the horse in a pulling bee, which the little horse won. In 1805, Goss traded Figure for a mare owned by his brother David.\n\nDavid Goss owned Figure from 1805-1811, where he worked on the farm for 10 months, and was used for breeding for two months each year. He was sold in 1811 to Philip Goss for the breeding season. Philip Goss sold Figure to Jacob Sanderson, who sold him to Jacob Langmeade. Langmeade used the horse to haul freight, and is thought to have abused the aging stallion.\n\nLangmeade sold Figure to Joel Goss and Joseph Rogers at the end of 1811. Figure stood at stud for several years, before he was sold to Samuel Stone in 1817. Stone exhibited the stallion in the Randolph fair. Figure was used as a parade mount by President James Monroe later that year.\n\nIn 1819, Figure was sold to his final owner, Levi Bean of Chelsea, Vermont. Toward the end of his life, Figure was put out to pasture. He died in 1821 from an injury to the flank, caused by a kick, at the age of 32. Figure is now buried in Tunbridge, Vermont.\n\nMany myths developed surrounding Figure and Justin Morgan. The popular children's book, \"Justin Morgan Had a Horse\" by Marguerite Henry, is a fictionalized account of Figure (called \"Little Bub\" in the book) and his early life. A movie about the pair was made by Walt Disney Studios, released in 1972, which took liberties with known events.\n"}
{"id": "5522967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5522967", "title": "Forgotten Widows", "text": "Forgotten Widows\n\nThe \"Forgotten Widows\" are a group of women who were barred from receiving any compensation after the death of their United States Military spouses. As a result of the Survivor Benefit Plan being passed in the late 1970s, spouses of servicemembers who died before the act was put into effect were cut off from receiving any aid from the military.\n\nThe Department of Defense has repealed certain statutes barring the Forgotten Widows, a vocal minority in recent years, from receiving compensation. In 2001, the DoD allowed widows of servicemembers who retired from active service before September 21, 1972 and died before March 21, 1974 to receive a monthly stipend, on the condition that the widow has not remarried. Any spouses of armed forces reserve members who died before October 1, 1978 are also eligible.\n\nThe number of Forgotten Widows still alive is estimated to be in the thousands. Nearly 800 widows applied for compensation upon the relaxing of the Benefit Plan rules in 2001, with 550 applications approved.\n"}
{"id": "37217532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37217532", "title": "Gender and security sector reform", "text": "Gender and security sector reform\n\nGender and security sector reform is an emerging subfield of security sector reform (SSR) that is both practical and conceptual. SSR generally is a comprehensive framework within which all or part of a state's security sector undergoes a process of transformation in order to bring it more into line with principles such as democratic oversight, good governance and the rule of law. The overall objectives of SSR programmes – as defined both by the state in question and any international donors supporting the process – tend to include improving service delivery, enhancing local ownership and ensuring the sustainability of security sector institutions. As gender-specific approaches take into account the specific needs of men, women, boys and girls through gender mainstreaming and by promoting the equal participation of people of all genders in decision-making processes, states and international organisations increasingly consider them to be a necessary component of SSR programmes.\n\nThe need to integrate gender into SSR processes was recognised at the international level in 2008 by then-United Nations (UN) Secretary-General Kofi Annan in his report on SSR, where he stated that: \"...the integration of a gender perspective in security sector reform is inherent to an inclusive and socially responsive approach to security. Gender-sensitive security sector reform\", he went on, \"is key to developing security sector institutions that are non-discriminatory, representative of the population and capable of effectively responding to the specific security needs of diverse groups.\" Since the release of this report, the number of SSR programmes incorporating a gender dimension has increased dramatically, as has the amount of academic literature available and the number of specialists working in the area. Gender dimensions are often included in SSR processes as part of a country's commitment to UN Security Council Resolution 1325 (2000) (UNSCR 1325), which calls for wider female participation in all aspects of post-conflict reconstruction and for more consideration of the specific needs of women and girls. For example, Liberia's National Action Plan on UNSCR 1325 makes provisions for strengthening the capacity of the SSR desk at the Ministry for Gender and Development.\n\nIn 2012, a decade after UNSCR 1325 began to be implemented, the Security Council highlighted \"the importance of addressing sexual violence in armed conflict and post-conflict situations in the context of security sector reform initiatives and arrangements, including training, vetting, and capacity-building of national security actors.\" In addition, a US representative on the Security Council noted that the \"integration of a gender perspective made institutions more inclusive and improved the overall effectiveness of security sector reform.\"\n\nOne of the key tenets of SSR is that the security sector should be designed to serve the security and justice needs of the population. A person's gender (along with other characteristics, such as age, class, ethnicity/clan/tribe/caste, and sexual orientation) plays an important part in his or her own security needs. Worldwide, women, men, girls and boys have different experiences in areas such as sexual violence, trafficking in human beings, gang violence, robbery, dowry deaths, abduction and so-called 'honour killings'. For example, over 90 percent of deaths related to firearms are male, whereas in most countries, the proportion of women with male intimate partners who experience physical violence during the course of their relationship lies between one-quarter and one-half. Around the world, women, men, girls and boys also have different access to resources such as land, money, education, healthcare and political power. Women own less than 15 percent of land worldwide and only 2 percent in the developing world.\n\nFor this reason, gender perspectives are a useful tool to achieving the security sector's objectives. For example, in order to encourage women who have been victims of SGBV to report the crime, it may be important to give them the option of speaking to a woman police officer, perhaps in a specialized police station. In cases where men are affected by SGBV, similar provisions may also be needed, as well as training for security sector personnel who may not be aware of the existence and extent of gender-based violence committed against men. In both cases, an effective response will usually also involve public awareness campaigns highlighting the problem and the services available to survivors. It will probably also include forming partnerships between security providers (e.g. police, justice institutions and prisons), health care providers and civil society organisations, as part of a holistic approach to SSR.\n\nMore broadly, collaboration between security sector institutions and civil society groups involved in gender issues can increase the effectiveness of the security sector. Such groups can deliver training, support policy development, and on an ongoing basis provide complementary security and justice services and keep security forces informed about issues within communities.\n\nA further gendered aspect of effective service delivery centres around the skills of security sector personnel themselves. Other societal factors tend to result in men and women having different skill sets. Consequently, if security sector institutions lack either male and female staff at any level, their staff will possess a smaller skill set, limiting their operational options. For example, studies in the USA found that American female police officers were more adept at policing without the use of excessive or deadly force than their male counterparts, although they were as likely to use force as men when absolutely necessary. As a result, male police officers cost US taxpayers between 2.5 and 5.5 times more in legal fees related to excessive force liability lawsuit payouts and are almost three times more likely to be threatened or attacked by citizens. Despite the proven ability of women to increase the skill set of police forces, the closest any police force has come to achieving gender balance is Estonia, where 33.5% of officers are female.\n\nFourthly, certain security roles might for cultural reasons only be able to be performed by personnel of a particular gender, requiring both male and female personnel for effective operations. For example, in many cultures it is inappropriate for a male police officer or soldier to search a woman. Likewise, in intelligence-gathering, civilians may only be willing to speak with security sector personnel of a certain gender.\n\nLocal ownership has been recognised as a key pillar in ensuring that SSR is both implemented correctly and sustainable. Local ownership of SSR is characterised by \"the reform of security policies, institutions and activities in a given country must be designed, managed and implemented by local actors rather than external actors\" and is notably distinct from local support for donor programmes and projects. Given that security and justice needs vary by gender, it is important to ensure that people of different genders are consulted and involved in an SSR process. In practice, this can be achieved by involving women's groups, youth groups and other organisations that work on gender-related security issues such as human trafficking, gang violence and human rights. Such groups can serve as a crucial bridge between local communities and SSR policymakers, strengthening local ownership through communicating security and justice needs to policymakers and raising awareness of SSR in local communities.\n\nImproving oversight and accountability of the security sector can ensure the sustainability of SSR by building trust among the population and by deterring security sector personnel from abusing their power. To be effective, it is essential that security sector oversight bodies and accountability mechanisms (parliaments, national human rights institutions, complaints bodies, local security fora etc.) adopt a gendered perspective. This involves both giving particular attention to the different types of violations committed by security sector personnel against people of different genders, and monitoring the quality of services delivered to people of different genders. Involving gender experts, women's groups and other civil society organisations that work on gender issues in oversight bodies and accountability processes is helpful.\n\nGender and SSR at both national and international levels takes place within a well-elaborated legal framework.\n\nCEDAW holds states responsible for ending discrimination against women, which it defines in Article 1 as \"any distinction, exclusion or restriction made on the basis of sex which has the effect or purpose of impairing or nullifying the recognition, enjoyment or exercise by women, irrespective of their marital status, on a basis of equality of men and women, of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil or any other field.\" States parties agree to do this using measures such as reviewing their national legislation to remove discriminatory laws and to criminalize discrimination against women, creating national tribunals or institutions to eliminate discrimination or by implementing policies.\n\nThe Beijing Declaration and the Platform for Action resulted from the Fourth World Conference on Women and aimed to promote the advancement and empowerment of women. Areas related to SSR include calls on governments to ensure access to free or low-cost legal services, to aim for gender balance in nominations to international, judicial and governmental bodies and to develop comprehensive human rights education programmes for the public, public officials (notably within the police, military, prison system, government, judiciary and all those working in positions related to migration).\n\nUNSCR 1325 was a landmark resolution in that it recognised the disproportionate impact of armed conflict on civilian women and children, whether they are targeted (e.g. rape as an instrument of war) or indirectly affected (e.g. forced migration). It also recognised contributions women make to conflict prevention, resolution and post-conflict reconstruction and called for greater inclusion of women in processes related to peace and security. It mandated a policy of gender mainstreaming in all UN peacekeeping operations, which often include support to SSR processes.\n\nUNSCR 1820 sought to address the issue of sexual violence against women and girls during conflict by explicitly mandating the participation of women in \"all disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration processes, and in justice and security sector reform efforts assisted by the United Nations\".\n\nUNSCR 1888 builds on 1820 by mandating that sexual violence also be addressed in peace processes and calls for the deployment of experts and a Special Representative of Sexual Violence in Conflict. UNSCR 1889 calls for an increased role for women at the top levels of mediation as well as mandating the UN to collect gender-segregated data on all activities related to peace and security.\n\nUNSCR 1960 encourages the inclusion of women in police, civil and military functions during peacekeeping missions.\n\nUNSCR 2106 requests relevant UN entities to assist national authorities in addressing sexual violence, with effective participation of women, in SSR and justice sector reform processes, specifically through training, increasing female recruitment and implementing vetting processes that exclude perpetrators of sexual violence from serving in security institutions.\n\nThe following two complementary strategies can be used to integrate gender issues into SSR policy and programming:\n\nGender mainstreaming is \"the process of assessing the implications for women and men of any planned action, including legislation, policies or programmes, in all areas and at all levels. It is a strategy for making women's as well as men's concerns and experiences an integral dimension of the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programmes in all political, economic and societal spheres so that women and men benefit equally and inequality is not perpetuated. The ultimate goal is to achieve gender equality.\" In the context of SSR, gender mainstreaming involves considering the impact all aspects of the programme at all stages of the programming cycle in light of the different security needs of women, men, boys and girls. To achieve this, all data collected should be gender disaggregated. It may result in gender initiatives – such as gender training for security sector personnel and gender budget analysis to ensure that resources are being distributed equally: It may also result in initiatives aimed at men, women, boys or girls – such as mentoring schemes to facilitate the professional development of female police officers, providing access to justice for male civilian victims of wartime sex-selective massacres, policy measures to prevent the enslavement of boys and ensuring the inclusion of former female child soldiers in disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration (DDR) programmes.\n\nSometimes known as gender balance, promoting the equal participation of men and women in SSR processes and security sector institutions is a method of strengthening local ownership as well as increasing representation and effectiveness. In relation to SSR processes, this may involve ensuring that women and men are equally involved in SSR needs assessment, monitoring and evaluation, and that representatives of women (such as from the ministry responsible for women, or from civil society) participate in SSR policy- and decision-making. In relation to security sector institutions, because men are over-represented, promoting equal participation generally involves increasing the recruitment, retention and advancement of women. Doing so may require developing policies for security sector institutions that allow personnel to perform socially-expected gender roles (e.g. flexible working hours for parents. Some countries have attempted to promote equal participation by introducing gender quotas. In the Liberian National Police, for example, a quota that at least 20% of new recruits must be women succeeded in rapidly increasing female participation.\n\nWhile all gender and SSR processes share many overarching objectives, the kinds of activities carried out on the ground will vary significantly depending upon the context in which they take place.\n\nThe focus of many gender and SSR efforts in post-conflict settings is on stemming heightened levels of SGBV, particularly against women and children, that tend to persist due to high levels of available weapons, trauma and a lack of economic opportunities for former-combatants and young adults (especially men) who feel marginalised. Men, women, girls and boys all have important roles to play in re-establishing civil society. However, as there is often pressure to rebuild security sector institutions as quickly as possible and as male-dominated, militarised command structures may still be in political control of the state, the different needs of the population are often overlooked. Challenges in these settings frequently include integrating gender issues in DDR processes, recruiting more women into newly reconstructed security sector institutions, ensuring access to transitional justice mechanisms for victims of SGBV during the conflict and ensuring that the newly reformed justice institutions take into account the needs of those most at risk from the heightened levels of post-conflict SGBV. However, it should also be emphasised that SSR can be an entry point in post-conflict contexts for overcoming pre-conflict gender-based inequality and insecurity.\n\nTransitional countries refer to post-authoritarian contexts which may or may not be accompanied be changes in economic system. They tend to have well-funded and oversized security institutions that are undergoing a shift from serving a regime to serving the population. As such, developing and implementing new working practices whereby the primary objective is to respond to the different security needs of the population may present a challenge for personnel who are used to maintaining order through violent means. In former Eastern Bloc transitional countries, civil society may be weak but in other contexts such as in countries affected by the Arab Spring, civil society may have organised into a broad coalition in order to bring about political change with women's groups playing a leading role. There often is a window of opportunity for civil society to reshape security sector institutions by, for example, integrating gender perspectives. This may also be incentivised by new possibilities for regional cooperation which involve adhering to gender-related minimum standards.\n\nThere is increasing opinion that gender-based violence and discrimination inhibit development as, aside from their negative social and personal consequences, they impair the productivity of those affected to the detriment of the whole economy. Gender-based violence and discrimination also increases the risk of violent conflict breaking out as it can be used as an instrument of warfare to destabilise communities, can inhibit certain groups from participating in post-conflict peacebuilding activities as well as perpetuating an atmosphere of impunity regarding violence in the society. For this reason, gender and SSR is increasingly being implemented by the governments of developing countries with the support of donors and other actors in the international community, who may make the integration of gender a condition for development support. Translating policy into practice is often hindered by the lack of human and financial resources in developing counties. However, civil society organisations are widespread and well-organised in many developing countries providing competent partners for governments and donors in implementing gender and SSR initiatives.\n\nThe term SSR is usually used to refer to processes in post-conflict and transitional countries, where there is often support by third countries and/or international organisations. However, developed countries also engage in SSR activities. Gender and SSR-related activities include efforts to increase the recruitment, retention and advancement of female security sector personnel, improving responses to SGBV, training on how to prevent and respond to SGBV during overseas deployments, strengthening the gender dimensions of oversight and monitoring, and building collaboration with civil society groups concerned with gender issues. The challenges for integrating gender in such contexts tend to revolve around complacency and the emphasis on external threats such as terrorism. Entry points for gender and SSR are often linked to legal obligations under anti-discrimination and human rights legislation, or the need to boost recruitment for operational reasons. For example, following the introduction of the Canadian Human Rights Act (1977), the Canadian Forces were obliged to prove that any discriminatory policies were an operational necessity. After consistently failing to do so in court, the systemic barriers to women's participation in all areas of activity had been lifted by 2001. Social pressure also forced the Canadian Forces to address attitudinal causes of discrimination and SGBV through the establishment of Defense Diversity Councils. Similarly, regional frameworks such as NATO and the Council of Europe can provide impetus and a degree of social pressure for gender and SSR activities in developing countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37084251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37084251", "title": "Gregor Abel", "text": "Gregor Abel\n\nGregor Abel (born 9 April 1949) is a Scottish former football player and manager. Abel played for Falkirk, Clydebank and Alloa Athletic.\n\nAfter retiring as a player, he became a coach at Alloa Athletic and then Falkirk, assisting Alex Totten. Abel was appointed Falkirk manager in November 1983, after Totten left the club to become assistant manager of Rangers. He resigned in February 1984 due to the pressures of combining that job with working as a schoolteacher. Abel assisted Jim Leishman as Dunfermline Athletic rose from the Scottish Second Division to the Scottish Premier Division with successive promotions in 1985–86 and 1986–87. Abel left Dunfermline in July 1987 after the club converted to fully professional status, however, because he wanted to retain part-time status and continue his teaching career.\n\nAfter leaving Dunfermline, Abel became assistant manager of Forfar Athletic. Later that year, Abel was appointed manager of Alloa Athletic. The club won a promotion under his management and reached the quarter-finals of the 1988–89 Scottish Cup. Abel was sacked by Alloa Athletic in February 1990 as the club struggled in the Scottish First Division, having won promotion the season before.\n\nAbel then worked as a reserve team and youth coach for Aberdeen for eight years. He then had five years with Rangers as a youth coach. He continued to teach at Alva Academy until his retirement in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "1239484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1239484", "title": "Grievous bodily harm", "text": "Grievous bodily harm\n\nGrievous bodily harm (often abbreviated to GBH) is a term used in English criminal law to describe the severest forms of assault. It refers to two offences that are respectively created by sections 18 and 20 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861. The distinction between these two sections is the requirement of specific intent for section 18; the offence under section 18 is variously referred to as \"wounding with intent\" or \"causing grievous bodily harm with intent\", whereas the offence under section 20 is variously referred to as \"unlawful wounding\", \"malicious wounding\" or \"inflicting grievous bodily harm\".\n\nThis section now reads:\n\nThe words from \"or shoot\" to \"some other\", except the words \"with intent to do some\" were repealed by section 10(2) of, and Part III of Schedule 3 to, the Criminal Law Act 1967.\n\nThe words omitted in the penultimate place were repealed by the Statute Law Revision (No. 2) Act 1893.\n\nThe words omitted at the end were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1892 and the Statute Law Revision (No. 2) Act 1893.\n\nThis section replaces section 4 of the Offences against the Person Act 1837, which in turn replaced section 12 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828, which in turn replaced section 1 of Lord Ellenborough's Act (1803).\n\nSee the Criminal Law Act 1967 and the Criminal Law Act (Northern Ireland) 1967.\n\nSee the Criminal Justice Act 1948 and the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1953.\n\nIn England and Wales, section 20 now reads:\n\nThe words omitted were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1892.\n\nSee the Criminal Law Act 1967.\n\nSee the Penal Servitude Act 1891 and the Criminal Justice Act 1948.\n\nNone of the words used in these sections are defined elsewhere in the Act, but they have been defined by case law.\n\nFor this purpose, a wound is an injury that breaks the continuity of the skin. There must be a division of the whole skin and not merely a division of the cuticle or upper layer.\n\nA single drop of blood is sufficient, but it must fall outside the body: see \"JJC (a minor) v. Eisenhower\" (1984) 78 Cr App R 48. In this case, a pellet gun was fired at the victim. The bullet ruptured blood vessels above his eye, causing his eye to fill with fluid. Lord Justice Robert Goff said the rupturing of blood vessels is an internal wound; only the breaking of whole skin would warrant a wounding charge.\n\nA bruise or internal rupturing of blood vessels is not a wound, and neither is a broken bone.\n\nWounding does not imply the use of a weapon; a kick may be wounding.\n\nGrievous bodily harm means \"really serious bodily harm\": \"DPP v Smith\" [1961] AC 290, HL; \"R v Cunningham\" [1982] AC 566, HL; \"R v Brown (A)\" [1994] 1 AC 212, HL; \"R v Brown and Stratton\" [1998] Crim LR 485, CA. It encompasses a range of injuries: \"R v Woodland\" (2007) 48 MVR 360.\n\nHowever, \"R v Saunders\" [1985] Crim LR 230, [1985] LS Gaz R 1005, allows \"serious injury\" as a sufficient direction to the jury. It is for the judge to decide whether the word \"really\" needs to be used in their direction to the jury: \"R v Janjua and Choudhury\" [1999] 1 Cr App R 91, The Times, 8 May 1998, CA (in this case, as a knife with a blade at least 5½ inches long had been used, it was not possible that something less than really serious harm was intended).\n\nWhere, shortly before the conclusion of a performance at a theatre, the defendant put out the lights on a staircase which a large number of persons had to descend in order to leave the theatre, and he also obstructed the exit by placing an iron bar across a doorway which they had in leaving to pass, and upon the lights being thus extinguished, a large proportion of the audience were seized by panic and rushed in fright down the staircase forcing those in front against the iron bar, he \"inflicted\" injuries which resulted by reason of the pressure and struggling of the crowd thus created on the staircase.\n\nDavid Ormerod said that the effect of the decision in \"R v Gibbins and Proctor\" appears to be that the offence of causing grievous bodily harm under section 18 can be committed by an omission.\n\nIn \"R v Mandair\", Lord Mackay of Clashfern LC. said, with the agreement of the majority of the House of Lords, \"In my opinion ... the word 'cause' is wider or at least not narrower than the word 'inflict'\".\n\nIn \"R v Burstow, R v Ireland\", it was held that an offence of inflicting grievous bodily harm under section 20 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 can be committed where no physical violence is applied directly or indirectly to the body of the victim.\n\nLord Hope of Craighead said \"the word \"inflict\" implies that the consequence of the act is something which the victim is likely to find unpleasant or harmful.\" He said that, in the context of a criminal act, the words \"cause\" and \"inflict\" may be taken to be interchangeable.\n\nLord Steyn described the actions of Burstow as follows: \"During an eight month period in 1995 covered by the indictment he continued his campaign of harassment. He made some silent telephone calls to her. He also made abusive calls to her. He distributed offensive cards in the street where she lived. He was frequently, and unnecessarily, at her home and place of work. He surreptitiously took photographs of the victim and her family. He sent her a note which was intended to be menacing, and was so understood.\"\n\nNeither offence requires that a common assault be committed.\n\nIn \"R v Wilson, R v Jenkins\", Lord Roskill said:\nIn \"R v Clarence\", it appeared that at a time when the prisoner knew, but his wife did not know, that he was suffering from gonorrhoea, he had \"connection\" with her; that the result was that the disease was communicated to her, and that had she been aware of the prisoner's condition she would not have submitted to the intercourse.\n\nClarence's conviction under section 20 was quashed by the Court for Crown Cases Reserved by a majority of 9 to 4. Wills, A L Smith and Stephen JJ. specifically said that they thought the disease had not been inflicted within the meaning of the word \"inflict\" in section 20. Mathew J. said that he agreed with Stephen. Stephen said that he had been informed that Grantham J. agreed with him. Huddleston B. said that he thoroughly agreed with Stephen. Lord Coleridge CJ. said that he agreed with all or almost all of what Wills and Stephen said. Hawkins J. specifically said that he thought it had been inflicted within the meaning of the word \"inflict\" in section 20.\n\nWills J said (footnotes have been included in the body of the text, indicated by \"(1)\"):\n\nStephen J said:\n\nA L Smith J. said \"it appears to me that this offence cannot be committed unless an assault has in fact been committed, and indeed this has been so held\".\n\nHawkins J. said that he thought that the contention that bodily harm cannot be legally said to be \"inflicted\" unless it has been brought about by some act amounting to an assault was untenable.\n\nIn \"R v Mowatt\" Lord Diplock said:\n\nTherefore, the defendant must at least be reckless as to whether some harm, albeit not necessarily serious harm, is likely to be caused, (see \"R v Savage, DPP v Parmenter\",) but a mere intention to frighten is not enough (see \"R v Sullivan\").\n\nIn \"R v Sullivan\" [1981] Crim LR 46, CA, the appellant was tried on charges of causing grievous bodily harm with intent and inflicting grievous bodily harm. The victim said that the appellant and a companion were drunk. He said that while he was in a street that was eight feet wide and had a narrow pavement, the appellant drove a car through that street at twenty five to thirty miles an hour, mounted the pavement and injured him. The appellant denied that he was the driver of the car in a written statement to the police and said he could add nothing to that statement in an unsworn statement from the dock. However, during his closing speech, counsel for the defence suggested that all the appellant intended to do was frighten the victim and no more. The jury were directed that if there was an intention to frighten, and injury took place as a result, the appellant was guilty of an offence under section 20. The appellant was acquitted of the offence under section 18, but convicted of offences under section 20. The Court of Appeal held that an intention to frighten was not enough to constitute the necessary mens rea for section 20, and that the direction to the contrary effect was a misdirection. However, they dismissed the appellant's appeal. They said that a properly directed jury could not in the circumstances have come to any other conclusion than that the appellant must have been aware that what he was doing was likely to cause physical injury to the victim.\n\nIn practice, malice in the case of these offences means no more than foresight of the risk of bodily harm: \"R v Barnes\" [2005] 1 Cr App R 30.\n\nSection 18 has two separate \"mens rea\" requirements and is therefore an offence of specific rather than basic intent. \"R v Belfon\" [1976] 1 WLR 741, CA, confirmed that references to mere foresight or recklessness that harm was likely to result are sufficient for the element \"unlawfully and maliciously inflict/cause\" for the basic intent in both sections 18 and 20 but insufficient for the specific element. The intention either to cause or to resist arrest must be proved subjectively, say, in the charge \"malicious wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm\".\n\nThe Crown Prosecution Service said that the following factors may indicate the specific intent: \"a repeated or planned attack; deliberate selection of a weapon or adaptation of an article to cause injury, such as breaking a glass before an attack; making prior threats; and using an offensive weapon against, or kicking the victim's head\".\n\nSections 20 and 47 are offences of basic intent and can be an alternative charge to section 18, and/or section 47 is a lesser included offence.\n\nConsent is only an allowed defence to either section if there is considered to be a good reason. This may include medical operations, sport, body modifications (even if carried out by someone who is not trained), and, occasionally, \"horseplay\".\n\n\"R v Brown (Anthony)\" however ruled that consensual sadomasochism is not legal.\n\nIn England and Wales, the offence under section 18 is an indictable-only offence.\n\nIn England and Wales, the offence under section 20 is triable either way.\n\nIn England and Wales, an offence under section 18 is punishable with imprisonment for life or for any shorter term.\n\nSee the Crown Prosecution Service Sentencing Manual for case law on sentencing of section 18 . Relevant cases are:\n\n\nIn Northern Ireland, an offence under section 18 is punishable with imprisonment for life or for any shorter term.\n\nIn England and Wales, a person guilty of an offence under section 20 is liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding the prescribed sum, or to both.\n\nWhere a person is convicted on indictment of an offence under section 20, other than an offence for which the sentence falls to be imposed under section 227 or 228 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, the court, if not precluded from sentencing an offender by its exercise of some other power, may impose a fine instead of or in addition to dealing with him in any other way in which the court has power to deal with him, subject however to any enactment requiring the offender to be dealt with in a particular way.\n\nAn offence under section 20 is a specified offence for the purposes of chapter 5 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 because it is a specified violent offence. It is not a serious offence for the purposes of that Chapter because it is not, apart from section 225, punishable in the case of a person aged 18 or over by imprisonment for life, or by imprisonment for a determinate period of ten years or more. This means that sections 227 and 228 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (which relate to extended sentences) apply where a person is convicted of an offence under section 20, committed after the commencement of section 227 or 228 (as the case may be) and the court considers that there is a significant risk to members of the public of serious harm occasioned by the commission by the offender of further specified offences.\n\nSee the Crown Prosecution Service Sentencing Manual for case law on sentencing of section 20 \n\nThe following cases are relevant to section 20:\n\nIn Northern Ireland, a person guilty of an offence under section 20 is liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years, or on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months, or to a fine not exceeding the prescribed sum, or to both.\n\nIn England and Wales, section 29(1)(a) of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (c 37) creates the distinct offence of racially or religiously aggravated wounding or infliction of bodily harm. This is an aggravated version of the offence under section 20.\n\n\n\nCrown Prosecution Service\n"}
{"id": "39071071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39071071", "title": "Guido Aleati", "text": "Guido Aleati\n\nGuido Aleati (born c. 1918) is an Italian rugby union and professional rugby league footballer of the 1940s and 1950s. He played club level rugby union (RU) for R.S. Ginnastica Torino, and representative level rugby league (RL) for Italy, and at club level for Torino XIII, as a , or , i.e. number 2 or 5, or, 3 or 4.\n\nVincenzo Bertolotto co-organised (with Dennis Chappell , from Wakefield, and a Turin resident), and captained the Italy (RL) tour of 1950 to France (3 matches), England (including; 28-49 defeat by Wigan at Central Park, Wigan on Saturday 26 August 1950, Huddersfield at Fartown Ground, Huddersfield on Wednesday 6 September 1950, St. Helens at Knowsley Road on Thursday 16 November 1950), and Wales (including; 11-29 defeat by South Wales XIII at Brewery Field, Bridgend on Saturday 2 September 1950).\n\nThe Italy (RL) squad was; Guido Aleati (previously of R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU)), Sergio Aleati (previously of R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU)), Roberto Antonioli (previously of R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU)), Angelo Arrigoni (previously of R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU)), Vincenzo Bertolotto (previously of R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU)), Michele Bietto, Giovanni Bonino (previously of R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU)), Luigi Bosia, Giuseppe Cannone, Pasquale Cannone, Delio Caron, Gabriele Casalegno (previously of R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU)), Amerio Chiara, Giorgio Cornacchia, Guido Cornarino (previously of R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU)), Fabrizio Faglioli, Enzo Francesconi, Giuseppe Franco, Aldo Guglielminotti (previously of R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU)), Giovanni Orecchia, Luigi Pignattaro, Franco Pipino, Giorgio Rassaval, Giorgio Rubino, Giovanni Tamagno (previously of R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU)), Oreste Tescari, and Giovanni Vigna.\n\nAleati was a member of the R.S. Ginnastica Torino (RU) team that won the 1947 Campionati italiani. In honour of this, Aleati's name appears alongside his teammates on a plaque affixed to in Turin, the squad was; eight players that would subsequently accompany Aleati on the 1950 rugby league tour, and also Ausonio Alacevich, Bianco, Campi, Chiosso, Chiosso, Mario Dotti IV, Pescarmona, Piovano, Rocca, Felice Rama (coach), Siliquini, and Sandro Vigliano.\n\nFollowing the Italy (RL) tour of 1950 to France, England, and Wales, a Torino XIII featuring Guido Aleati joined the French league.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33834112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33834112", "title": "Helen L. Gilson", "text": "Helen L. Gilson\n\nHelen L. Gilson (1836–1868) was born in Chelsea, Massachusetts. She was a nurse during the Civil War. Also known as Helen L. Gilson Osgood.\n\nShe began her career in teaching at seventeen as the head assistant of Phillips School in Boston, Massachusetts. She stayed there for a few years until 1858 when throat problems forced her to leave. After that, she moved back to Chelsea, Massachusetts where she worked as a governess for her cousins, children of her uncle Frank B. Fay, the mayor of Chelsea.\n\nFay took a deep interest in supporting the Civil War, especially in supporting the troops. This was a cause that Gilson became passionate about as well. Gibson's service began in 1861 by organizing with the Soldiers' Aid Society. Her duties included preparing, collecting, and transporting supplies.\n\nHoping to help more, Gilson applied for a diploma to Dorothea Dix, the government superintendent of female nurses. She was denied due to age requirements. However, this did not stop her from leaving home to help the soldiers. Before 1862, Gilson worked with the Sanitary Commission alongside Fay and the Army of the Potomac. She worked alongside this army through most of their major battles. Gilson's best work during this period was on General Grant's campaign from Rapidan to Petersburg and the Apotomax which lasted almost a year. In April 1862, Gilson applied a second time to Dix, though this time in person. Dix offered her a placement at Washington's Columbian College Hospital. Though the particular job fell through, Gilson volunteered at the hospital anyway. In June 1862, Gilson began working on boats for the Hospital Transport System, a specialized division of the Special Relief Corp to provide medical supplies to hospitals.\n\nWhen Fay, in his own relief efforts, realized the need for more help at Fort Monroe, he volunteered Gilson. This became her way into the army as a nurse. In order to prepare, Gilson attended lectures in Washington on medical techniques.\n\nGilson was present at numerous famous battles, such as Yorktown, Antietam, Gettysburg, Fredericksburg, and Chancellorsville. Gilson is most known for the work she did in changing the colored hospital in Petersburg, Virginia where the conditions were so terrible, it did not resemble a hospital at all. She advocated for renovations, and when they were approved she aided in the renovations and restructuring of the hospital so well that at one point 900 men were being served from kitchen.\n\nGilson was known to many as an \"angel of mercy\" for her work with the soldiers, both white and African American. She was known to spend time at the soldiers' bedsides talking and singing to them, comforting them even as they were close to death. She earned the respect and love of the men for who she cared.\n\nShe left Richmond in July 1865, spent the summer on Long Island to recover from the illnesses she encountered while nursing the sick soldiers, and was home in Chelsea by fall. On October 11, 1866, Gilson married E. Hamilton Osgood in her hometown of Chelsea. Less than two years later on April 20, 1868, she, and her child, died during childbirth at Newton Corner Hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "35802001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35802001", "title": "Italian submarine Flutto", "text": "Italian submarine Flutto\n\nThe Italian submarine \"Flutto\" was the name ship of her class of submarines built for the Royal Italian Navy (\"Regia Marina\") during World War II. She obtained no successes during her short career, and was sunk by British ships during the Invasion of Sicily in 1943.\n\nThe \"Flutto\"-class submarines were designed as improved versions of the preceding . They displaced surfaced and submerged. The submarines were long, had a beam of and a draft of .\n\nFor surface running, the boats were powered by two diesel engines, each driving one propeller shaft. When submerged each propeller was driven by a electric motor. They could reach on the surface and underwater. On the surface, the \"Flutto\" class had a range of at , submerged, they had a range of at .\n\nThe boats were armed with six internal torpedo tubes, four in the bow and two in the stern. One reload were stowed for each tube, which gave them a total of twelve torpedoes. They were also armed with one deck gun and two anti-aircraft guns for combat on the surface.\n\n\"Flutto\" was built by CRDA at Monfalcone on the Adriatic coast, and was launched on 19 November 1942. After commissioning and working up \"Flutto\" saw action against Allied naval forces in the Mediterranean. She had no successes, and was lost in action in July 1943 operating against Allied forces involved in Operation Husky, the invasion of Sicily. On 11 July 1943 \"Flutto\" was on patrol in the Straits of Messina when she was detected and sunk by three British Motor Torpedo Boats (MTB’s \"640\", \"651\" and \"670\") with her entire crew of 49.\n\n"}
{"id": "53691837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53691837", "title": "Kernel (neurotechnology company)", "text": "Kernel (neurotechnology company)\n\nKernel is a neurotechnology company developing an interface to help researchers and clinicians better understand neurological diseases and dysfunctions such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases, depression and anxiety.\n\nThe company was founded in 2016 by Bryan Johnson, who backed it with a personal investment of $100 million. In February 2017, Kernel purchased certain neurotechnology assets from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Kendall Research Systems (KRS), a company founded by Christian Wentz that was developing an interface to capture and record neural data.\n\nKernel, which seeks to use knowledge gained from understanding basic brain functions to develop clinical solutions for neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders, is advised by a team including neuroscientists Ed Boyden and György Buzsáki and electrical engineer Ken Shepard. Johnson, who has said the future of humanity will be a combination of human and artificial intelligence, says Kernel's objective is \"to read and write the underlying functions of the brain.\"\n\nKernel is one of several companies researching links between the human brain and computers, including Neuralink, founded by Elon Musk, and Facebook.\n\n"}
{"id": "35031123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35031123", "title": "Kirk Urso", "text": "Kirk Urso\n\nKirk Jon Urso (March 6, 1990 – August 5, 2012) was an American soccer player. He played for Carolina Dynamo, Chicago Fire Premier, and Columbus Crew, and also represented the United States under-17s. He died at the age of 22 at the Ohio Health – Grant Medical Center.\n\nKirk Jon Urso was born on March 6, 1990 in Downers Grove, Illinois, the younger of Michael and Sandra (née Ceponis) Urso's two children. He had one older brother, Kyle, who played soccer at the University of New Hampshire.\n\nUrso played college soccer at the University of North Carolina. He was a 2011 NSCAA All-South Region First Team selection. While at Carolina, he started 80 of the 91 matches (the most in school history) in which he appeared, tallying 15 goals and 24 assists. He scored in each quarter final of the College Cup as a Freshman, Sophomore and Junior, and as a Senior, captained the Tar Heels to a 2011 NCAA Men’s College Cup final 1–0 victory over Charlotte and was named to the All-Tournament Team. While in college, Urso spent a semester in Europe training with both Bolton Wanderers and Borussia Dortmund.\n\nThe Columbus Crew selected Urso the first round (No. 10 overall) of the 2012 MLS Supplemental Draft and signed him on March 1, 2012. He joined college teammate Ben Speas with the Crew and made his first appearance during the season opener in Colorado, playing a full 90 minutes. He missed May 2012 after sustaining a groin injury.\n\nUrso played for the United States in the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 2007. He scored the winning goal in the US vs Belgium game, allowing the US to move on in their group. He also represented USA at the U-20 level.\n\nOn the morning of August 5, 2012, Urso collapsed and fell unconscious at a downtown Columbus establishment and was carried outside. He was taken to a nearby hospital when found by police who happened to be in the area for an unrelated call, where he suffered cardiac arrest. He was pronounced dead at 1:50 AM local time, after several attempts at resuscitation. He was 22 years old.\n\nAutopsy results revealed Urso died from arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy.\n"}
{"id": "5081069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5081069", "title": "Kiss Kasket", "text": "Kiss Kasket\n\nThe Kiss Kasket is an item of merchandise licensed by the rock band Kiss. It is an actual casket, decorated with a Kiss logo and pictures of the band members. In introducing the Kiss Kasket, Gene Simmons said, \"I love livin', but this makes the alternative look pretty damn good.\" The Kiss Kasket went on sale in 2001; as of 2008, it was no longer available from Kiss's website. As of February 2011, the second generation models of the Kiss Kasket became available on Kiss's website.\n\nDimebag Darrell, the guitarist of Pantera and Damageplan, was buried in a Kiss Kasket donated by Simmons at his funeral in 2004. His brother Vinnie Paul, the drummer of Pantera and Hellyeah, was also buried in a Kiss Kasket at his funeral in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50783233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50783233", "title": "Kou Voravong", "text": "Kou Voravong\n\nKou Voravong (lao : ກຸ ວໍຣະວົງ) (6 December 1914 – 18 September 1954) was a Laotian politician. He was part of the anti-Japanese resistance leading group during the Second World War and after then anti-Lao Issara (ລາວອິດສລະ) in the post-war period. Throughout his career, from 1941 to 1954, he has been District Chief, Province Governor, member of the Lao National Assembly, and Lao Royal Government Minister.\n\nThe political crisis caused by his assassination, barely two months after the Geneva Agreements which prepared to restore peace in Indochina, contributed to bring down the current neutralist government (pro-French) which was replaced by a progressive one (pro-American) in extremely tense atmosphere of the Cold War between Russia and the United States. From 1955 indeed, the political history of this small landlocked country fell trapped inexorably in the ideological confrontation between the capitalist United States and the communist Soviet Union, annihilating any hope of national unification.\n\nWe can find \"a Kou Voravong Road\" in the city of Thakhek as well as in Savannakhet where his name is also given to an old stadium now a sports park. Since 1995, a statue is erected in the garden of the family residence where he lived as a child.\n\nTo counter the British Empire's expansion in this area, French colonies were established since the middle of the 19th century in Indochina. French Government also began from this period, to be interested in exploiting the Mekong River Valley's resources. Several expeditions later, the King Oun Kham (ເຈົ້າອຸ່ນຄຳ) of Luang Prabang (ຫລວງພຣະບາງ), whose Kingdom was victim of neighboring countries covetousness attempting conquests (Siam, Myanmar, China) and at the same time divided by succession crisis, requested protection to France in 1887, accordingly to the explorer Auguste Pavie's advice. The Franco-Siamese Treaty dated October 3, 1893, determined new land-borders between Siam and Laos and established the French Protectorate. The Lan Xang Kingdom (ຣາຊະອານາຈັກລ້ານຊ້າງ) was, therefore, administered by the French Colonial Government, already present in Cambodia, Tonkin, Annam and Cochinchina.\n\nThe Laotian territory was then divided into provinces (khoueng - ແຂວງ), including districts (muong - ເມືອງ), themselves regrouping cantons (baan - ບ້ານ). They were directed by local notables : chiefs (chao - ເຈົ້າ) who were intermediaries between local populations and French officials - « fonctionnaires d'autorité » - such as Government Commissioners - « commissaires de gouvernement » - and Residents of France - « résidents de France ». The Senior Resident - « le résident supérieur » - settled in Vientiane, which naturally became the country's administrative capital. All of these officials were assisted by some: adjoins (oupahaat - ອຸປະຮາດ), assistants (phousouei - ຜູ້ຊ່ວຍ) and secretaries (samien - ສະໝຽນ).\n\nIn this historical context, Kou Voravong's maternal grandfather, Phagna Poui (ພຍາປຸ້ຍ), was appointed the first District Chief (chao muong - ເຈົ້າເມືອງ) of Khanthabouri (ຄັນທະບຸຣີ) in 1902, in Savannakhet Province, South-Laos. His younger brother, Thao Taan Voravong (ທ້າວຕານ ວໍຣະວົງ) would succeed him from 1922 to 1928.\n\nBorn in this influential family in 1914 in Khanthabouri district, Kou Voravong was the only son of Thaan-krou Khammanh Nakphoumin (ທ່ານຄຣູຄຳໝັ້ນ ນັກພູມິນ) – schoolteacher, and Nang Chanheuang (ນາງຈັນເຮືອງ), one of Phagna Poui's daughters. When his parents separated, he was adopted as infant by Nang Kiengkham (ນາງກຽງຄຳ), his mother's older sister, married to Thao Taan Voravong, who was, at the time, interpreter at the « Résidence de France ». The couple didn't have any children.\n\nKou Voravong grew up in Savannakhet and pursued a primary education there. He obtained the « certificat d'études primaires complémentaire indochinois » - Certificate of Indochinese Additional Primary Studies - (CEPCI) in 1930, went afterward to Vientiane and began his first-secondary-school year at the Collège Auguste Pavie. But because of a conflict which opposed him to French Colonial administration, his adopted father was sentenced to prison that same year. As reaction to this situation, Kou Voravong left school and returned to Savannakhet. As an out-of-school teenager, he practiced sports, especially soccer.\n\nOne day, after a game, Kou Voravong and friends gathered some coconuts from trees bordering the playground to satisfy their thirst. Madame Malpuech, the previous Commissioner's wife shouted at them, considering these behaviors as an act of vandalism on public property. As captain, he defended his teammates with such virulence that she filed complaint with the police against him for assaulting.\n\nWhen the Resident of France in office discovered that the young boy who stood up to him, was the son of Thao Taan Voravong, surprised by his educational background and particularly by his French language skills, he recruited him as private secretary (samien).\n\nKou Voravong left Savannakhet, returned to Secondary School, and while working, furthered his studies at the « École de droit et d'administration » (Law & Administration School), in Vientiane. He graduated in 1933, then occupied various administration positions. In 1941, he became adjoin (oupahaat) of the Governor (Deputy Chao Khoueng) of Vientiane. And in 1942, he was appointed District Chief (Chao Muang) of Paksane (ປາກຊັນ), in Borikhamxay Province (ບໍຣິຄຳຊັຍ) at a time when the Empire of Japan, allied to Nazi Germany, was extending its high-handedness throughout the entire region.\n\nIn Europe, the World War II broke out in 1939. As member of the Axis powers, Japan invaded Laos in 1941 with the French Vichy Government's agreement. On the other side, temporarily allied with the Japanese Empire in the « Greater Est Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere » – which back then reigned supreme on Southeast Asia – Siam Empire took advantage of the France's defeat to annex Laotian territories of Champassak and Sayaboury, both located on the east bank of the Mekong River. From 1940 to 1945, the two Asian allies, as liberators involving indigenous populations and denouncing Western colonialism, encouraged rebellions. To counteract the Japan-Siamese ambitions, Admiral Jean Decoux, the « Gouverneur général d'Indochine » (General Governor of Indochina), strove to strengthen ties between Laos and France. This policy promoted a bipartisan nationalism – on the one side pro- and on the other side anti- French presence – which would fight each other, once the global conflict ended.\n\nKou Voravong supported a progressive autonomy encouraged by France, and he was opposed to the nationalist movement Lao-Issara (ລາວອິດສລະ) founded by the Viceroy Chao Phetsarath Rattanavongsa (ເຈົ້າເພັດຊະຣາດ ຣັດຕະນະວົງສາ), whose objective was to combat the colonial power and to proclaim the independence of Laos at the end of the war.\n\nMarch 9, 1945, the Japanese army attacked Indochinese French garrisons, and by a coup, took control of the whole Administration. French officials were arrested and the King Sisavang Vong (ສີສະຫວ່າງວົງ), declared under duress, the country's independence. Early in the occupation, some French army officers were air-dropped and organised clandestine resistance operations in the jungle. Kou Voravong immediately contacted the anti-Japanese guerrilla group parachuted into his district (Paksane), a unit commanded by Colonel Jean Deuve. On order, he remained at his post for secretly and actively support the French-Lao guerrilla actions: volunteers recruitment, food and weapons supplies, information's collects, munitions hiding. As « chef de l'administration parallèle » (Leader of the Parallel Administration), he conducted anti-Japanese propaganda operations in cities and rural areas, developing resistance and information network. Denounced in June 1945, he was arrested but managed to escape. Accompanied by 150 volunteers, he joined the guerrilla, took up arms and alongside the French-Lao resistance fighters, continued fighting until the end of the war.\n\nOn August 15, 1945, Japan Empire's collapse resulting of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki's nuclear bombing, provided to French Government the opportunity to reestablish its authority over Indochina.\n\nKing Sisavang Vong declared officially the French protectorate's continuity. But on September 11, his cousin and Viceroy, Chao Phetsarath accompanied by his two brothers, Chao Souvanna Phouma (ເຈົ້າສຸວັນນະພູມາ) and Chao Souphanouvong (ເຈົ້າສຸພັນນຸວົງ), supported by Chinese and Viêt Minh nationalists, \nproclaimed the Lao Issara Government and required the immediate independence of Laos, refusing all discussions with France.<ref name=\"lgpg/histoire\"></ref> Therefore, struggles between different factions started out.\n\nAppointed Governor (Chao Khoueng) of Vientiane Province since late 1945, Kou Voravong created a civic guard and directed the political and military struggle of Monarchists from the occupied capital, facing the Lao Issara, Chinese and Việt Minh who took control of the major cities of the country. But after some months, besieged, injured and threatened, he had to withdraw into the countryside, where he continued to manage for liberation. On April 24, 1945, French army entered Vientiane. The Lao Issara Government went into exile on the right bank of the Mekong River. The movement dissolved in 1949 and was divided into three factions : \n\nOnce Vientiane released, Kou Voravong continued to fulfill his initial function of this province Governor. Then in 1947, he became Governor of Khammouane Province (ຄຳມ່ວນ) whose capital was Thakhek (ທ່າແຂກ).\n\nWhen relative peace was back in 1946, French Colonial Government whose country hardly recovered from the devastation of World War II, began at the same time to confront some first claims of Vietnamese nationalist movement led by Ho Chi Minh, agreed to lead Laos to progressive autonomy. During this transitional period, Government Commissioners were replaced by delegations of counselors working with Laotian Province Governors.\n\nOn the 11th, 1946, an election was organised to set up a constituent assembly. Khammouan Province won 4 seats including Kou Voravong, who had to go to the capital for the development of the Constitution. On March 6, 1947, he undertook the trip, accompanied by 2 other deputies and the French counselor of the Savannakhet Province's Governor. On the west side of Khammouane Province, between Thakhek and Paksan, they encountered an ambush, established by a Việt Minh company from Thailand, near a bridge located upstream on the mouth of the Hinboun and the Mekong rivers (Paak Hinboun – ປາກຫິນບູນ). The French counselor and both other deputies were instantly killed; Kou Voravong, seriously wounded, was left for dead. Shot by several bullets, in his head, legs and body, he nevertheless managed to crawl nearly one kilometer in the jungle, to slip into a pirogue and to row along the river until finding assistance. He was then saved, healed at the hospital of Thakhek.\n\nMay 11, 1947, the constitution was promulgated. And by decree dated July, 1947, a new Government was formed, presided over by Chao Souvannarath (ເຈົ້າສຸວັນນະຣາດ). The new nation had its Three-headed Elephant flag, its national hymn: Pheng Xat Lao (ເພງຊາດລາວ), and a constitution that laid Constitutional monarchy's foundations.\n\nIn this first parliamentary royal Government, to the young democrat Kou Voravong was attributed two ministries: Public Works and Justice/Religion. In the same year, with a colleague, Thao Bong Souvannavong (ບົງ ສຸວັນນະວົງ), he co-founded the first officially recognized Laotian political party: « Lao Union » (Phak Lao Houam Samphan - ພັກລາວຣ່ວມສຳພັນ): a democratic party with original ideas, which advocated an uncompromising nationalism, but whose members were willing to cooperate with French authorities in order to prepare their country to total independence. But a year later, because of various disagreements with him, Kou Voravong founded his own party: « Democracy » (Phak Paxaathipataï - ພັກປະຊາທິປະໄຕ), fighting as democratically as possible for an independent nation under a Constitutional monarchy.\n\nIn his speeches or in his party newspaper, « Voice of Laos » (Xieng Lao – ສຽງລາວ), he stated that links with France were necessary, though he never let pass what he considered as « French invasions » in his country's management. Earlier, in November, 1941, while he was Vientiane Governor's assistant, in the article « Speech to youth », published in the journal « Indochine », he claimed a larger autonomy for Laotian officials, the departure of Vietnamese executives, the end of feudal system, the limitation of the Indo-Chinese Federation's competence and more democracy.\n\nJuly 19th, France Government admitted for Laos the principle of independence under the Crown of King Sisavang Vong of Luang Prabang within the Indo-Chinese Federation by an agreement between the French President Vincent Auriol and the Laotian Prime Minister, Chao Boun Oum (ເຈົ້າບຸນອຸ້ມ). In order to develop the complete autonomy, Franco-Lao commissions was established to prepare the future transfers of powers. In this second royal Government, Kou Voravong was in charge of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. And in the discussions and debates in these preparation sessions, he was also head of commissions of Plan, Public Works, Economy and Military Affairs.\n\nLaos accessed to complete national sovereignty and had authority to manage its own Justice, Army, Police and Finances. The only restrictions laid down by the General Convention concerned common interests of the four associates countries of the French Union (Cambodia, France, Laos, Vietnam), and the war situation in Indochina. This new status offered to Laos the opportunity to become member of United Nations.\n\nLaos was, therefore, considered as a real State by western countries for the first time in its history. From now on, Lao Government could choose to establish diplomatic relations with any nations in the world and acceded to international organizations. This new situation implies that UN's experts come to evaluate the country's development level and real needs. Among them, there was American economic mission which, at first, was going to intoxicate the Laotian political environment by bringing first greenbacks. Facilitated by the gradual retreat of French neutralist hegemony, this situation left more and more place for pro-American liberal partisans and militarized socialist movements supported by Việt Minh in the Laotian political life.\n\nThe delicate balance of unit, stability and international recognition freshly acquired by Laos nation worked out by the confrontation of two opposite political ideologies. From the 1950s and until 1973, because of its geographical location, the Laotian territory became insidiously « the battlefield » of a secret war between CIA and Việt Minh. This resulted in fratricidal political confrontations for power, anti-piracy military struggles along the Viet Nam-Laos-Thailand borders, and formation of conspiracies counter-power throughout the territory, especially along the two banks of the Mekong River.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1953, the central government of Laos – a nation under construction – experienced a period of « relative peace », while Indochina War has been raging since 1946, without anyone among the leaders noticing the problems and the political consequences of the progressive and continuous infiltration of the revolutionary guerrillas along the borders. Even if it was politically developing, this 237 000 km2 small landlocked mountainous country, with long and heavily forested borders which was difficult to control, populated by numerous ethnic groups, where the communication routes were, most of the time, rivers and primitive tracks through the tropical jungle, remained severely sub-administered. Its leaders, gathered in major cities, preoccupied by rivalries of privileged clans, mined by corruption, demagoguery and personal interests, did not have any control over distant regions, where ethnic minorities problems expanded. The villagers considered themselves neglected by the Monarchy and appreciated more and more revolutionary speech of the Pathet Lao's (ປະເທດລາວ) Communist cells, founded by Chao Souphanouvong, since his return from exile in 1950, particularly in northern provinces as Houaphan (ຫົວພັນ) and Phongsali (ຜົ້ງສາລີ), which have a common border with North Viet Nam. Ideologically motivated, military trained and organized propagandists, these cells were supported by Ho Chi Minh's party partisans, who operated across both Vietnamese and Thai borders.\n\nAs the Prime Minister Chao Boun Oum had submitted the resignation of his government on February, 13th, 1950, the 3rd Royal Government, chaired by Phoui Sananikone (ຜຸຍ ຊນະນິກອນ) was invested on 27th of the same month – just two months before the effective transfers of powers, on April, 13th, Buddhist year 2492's last day – with Kou Voravong as Minister of the Interior. Being himself behind the creation of the National police force in 1949 and consequently very attentive to its development, Kou Voravong imposed on its direction, colonel Jean Deuve, a man of experiment, who he could fully trust, for having fought side-by-side four years ago against the Japanese and the Lao Issara troops.\n\nThe Federal Security Department was, therefore, replaced by the Homeland Security Department, which mission was to prevent and punish violations of internal and external Kingdom's security. In 1949–1950's, the main threats from foreign countries were essentially activities of organizations located in Thailand and in Vietnam, but also from Chinese border, now occupied by Mao Zedong's Revolutionary Army, supporting their Việt Minh brothers-in-arms against the imperialist enemies. It was impossible to control tightly 4 351 km of borders, especially as, all along, lived families from the same lines or the same tribes. Pirates, propagandists or subversive groups easily crossed these porous borders toward distant and off-centered zones, reaching some ethnic minorities neglected by the current government.\n\nInstead of solving the minorities problems by informations and dialogue, the Government left the Army with the fight against the guerrilla, which were formed by these same minorities, much more trained, motivated and supervised, while the Indo-Chinese Federation Army, contrary to their opponents, were understaffed and could not meet all local needs. The activities of these guerrillas Lao-Viet strongly perturbing the internal security, Kou Voravong and Jean Deuve led, since early 1950, a relentless fight against the border piracy. A Psychological Warfare Section and a Police Special Office which employed original but effective methods, was then created in order to support the Indo-Chinese Federation Army.\n\nIn 1951, Kou Voravong was elected deputy of his native province and chosen as President of the National Assembly. But military tensions at the borders becoming increasingly strong, the 4th, new royal Government appointed on November 21, 1951 and chaired by the neutralist Chao Souvanna Phouma, called on his veteran's experiences to direct the ministry of National Defense.\n\nThe Indochina War between France and revolutionary Việt Minh troops, led by Ho Chi Minh had been continuing since 1946. It boosted the Pathet Lao's activities, whose president was Chao Souphanouvong starting from 1950. He installed the general headquarter of the party in Xamneua, in the North Province of Houaphan.\n\nIn 1953, when the Pathet Lao, which rebellion expended dangerously, occupied the region of Phongsali, while its allied Việt Minh troops managed to control the Tonkin penetration axes to North, threatening the royal capital Luang Prabang, Laos fully entered into the First Indochina War. On October 23, 1953, a Treaty of Amity and Association was signed and France committed to defend Laos against the advance of communist troops. A garrison assigned under the command of General Henri Navarre – whose mission was to prevent any Việt Minh infiltration to Laos – was implanted in a strategic area, in West Tonkin, close to the Laotian border, where were some important runways connecting Luang Prabang to Diên Biên Phu Basin.\n\nBut May 7, 1954, French soldiers suffered a bitter military setback and Diên Biên Phu's entrenched camp fell into the hands of the People's Army of Vietnam, commanded by General Võ Nguyên Giáp. Whereupon, a conference was organized on July 20 in Geneva (Switzerland) to end hostilities between the French Army and the People's Army of Vietnam, ending eight years of war in Indochina. By the same occasion, the independence of Laos and Cambodia was reaffirmed.\n\nAt the conference, the Kingdom of Laos delegation was composed of Phoui Sananikone (minister of Foreign Affairs – leader), Kou Voravong (Minister of Defense – vice-leader) and eight members of Parliament. The members of Pathet Lao including Chao Souphanouvong, who carried North-Vietnamese passports, were integrated into the Việt Minh delegation.\n\nThe final declaration of the Geneva Agreements provided for Laos:\n\nWhereas all details of the cease-fire in Vietnam were settled, the agreement #3 which was equivalent to a recognition of the Pathet Lao as an official authority through its « Fighting Units », divided the royal representatives of the Laotian delegation and extended negotiations till late in the night of July 20. Shortly after midnight, despite the opinion of his delegation's leader, Phoui Sananikone, Kou Voravong finally granted to sign the final declaration, thereby closing the conference on July 21, 1954.\n\nIn spite of significant concessions of the Pathet Lao, politically -[recognition of the Government of Vientiane]- as well as military -[withdrawals of the armed forces of the liberated zones and their grouping in Xam Neua (Houaphanh) and Phongsali Provinces] – their official establishment next to the Lao Royal Government pending elections was far from eliciting unanimity. This was particularly true for the U.S. government which refused to sign and to apply the Geneva Agreements, considering that they handed a too large victory to the Indochinese Liberation Movements, headed by the Việt Minh, and supported by China and the Soviet Union. The spectrum of the Korean War just ended is still too present, that's why Washington's policy goal from now on, was to challenge the results of such agreements.\n\nOn September 8, 1954, at the initiative of the United States, a military organization SEATO was created. Equivalent of NATO in Southeast Asia, its official goal was to form a \"quarantine line\" against Communist expansion. It was decided by the authority that Cambodia, and Laos, considering their strategical position, belonged automatically to its protection zone. The defense minister Kou Voravong, supporter of strict application of the Geneva Agreements on the principle of neutrality prohibiting any military alliance, declined the protection of his country by the SEATO and refused to ratify the treaty, thereby blocking the American policy of containment towards the Communist expansion in Asia.\n\nUpon returning of the Geneva delegation, conflicts appeared within the Government. At the same period, rumors of coup by revolutionary conspiracies supporting Chao Phetsarath circulated, creating strong troubles in the country. These extreme tensions reached the summit, when two months later, an attack was committed on September 18, during a reception at Phoui Sananikone's residence, one of the delegates at the Geneva Conference. Present among the dinner guests, hit by a bullet in the back, Kou Voravong died one half an hour later at the Mahosot Hospital (ໂຮງພຍາບານມະໂຫສົດ), in Vientiane.\n\nThe attack occurred at approximately 22:15, at Phoui Sananikone's, an official residence nearby the Voravong family's. The attackers launched three grenades by one of the windows on the ground floor, in the dining room. They fired three or four pistol shots and then run away. Kou voravong, sitting with his back to the window, was directly hit by a bullet which came in by the kidney and out through the navel, after cutting the vena cava and crossed the liver and intestines. His dead is declared shortly after admission to hospital. A dozen people were injured by the explosion of the grenades, slightly for most of them.\n\nFifteen minutes later, when the police arrived, it was total confusion: in the panic, people had trampled the crime scene and destroyed evidences. According to witnesses, two men flew away behind the house through the gardens, in the direction of the swamps Muang Noy (ເມືອງນ້ອຍ), located 20 km around Vientiane. Two suspects, Oudom Louksourine (ອຸດົມ ລຸກສຸຣິນ) and Mi (ມີ) were formally recognized, police officers, therefore, set off in pursuit. Even wounded in the arms and legs, Oudom and Mi managed to escape. Supported by local complicity, they succeed in reaching Nong Khai (thai: หนองคาย), on the other side of the Mekong River.\n\nAccording to the police investigations, one of bullets fired by Oudom Louksourine reached Kou Voravong and caused his death. Oudom was a dangerous and notorious gangster, who confessed to have committed about fifteen assassinations. Imprisoned since 1950, he escaped in 1954 and with Mi -his partner in crime- joined a band of bandits established in Isan region, northeast Thailand, whose leader named Bounkong (ບຸນກອງ), a veteran Lao Issara and faithful follower of Chao Phetsarath.\n\nThis band of gangsters was hostile to France and ploted against the Royal Government. It was partly formed by soldiers who have deserted the Chinaimo camp, located near the capital. The conspiracy's members are gathered and hosted by the Thai police under the order of Colonel Praseuth (thai : ประเสริฐ), in Nong Khai, a border city located only 20 km from Vientiane. It appeared clearly that the Thai police, with or without the approval of the Government, supported the plot of Chinaimo which projected to reverse the Souvanna Phouma's government in order to return power to Chao Phetsarath, exiled in Bangkok since 1946. In addition, Thai authority appeared to have an ambiguous policy towards this case: they protected the conspirators of the Bounkong's band at the beginning, before eliminated most of them. They have constantly refused to extradite Oudom Louksourine, who would still sentenced to death in absentia for Kou Voravong's assassination by the Court of Vientiane in July 1959. At that time, he was captain in the Thai police.\n\nIf there was no doubt about the identity of the one who pulled the trigger, various theories about the person who was behind the crime were advanced by some people, depending on their political, ideological or family affiliations. They were mainly three:\n\n\nThis case of \"Attack on State Security\" involved many influential political figures. Lots of questions remained unanswered and the protagonists were never troubled. In March 1955, all defendants were granted conditional release by order of the new prime minister – Katay Don Sasorith (ກະຕ່າຍ ໂດນ ສະໂສລິດ) – who also had authority on Interior and Justice. He did not want under any circumstances to open a trial where his name could be mentioned, as well as accusations against his political friends.\n\nTo close the file definitively, in July 1959, the 9th Royal Government, chaired by Phoui Sananikone, brought the case to trial quickly and behind closed doors, dealing exclusively with the assassination of Kou Voravong, in order not to revive \"old issues\". Apart from that of Oudom Louksourine – sentenced to death in absentia – no other name was pronounced and the judgement legally exonerated Phoui Sananikone of all charges.\n\nShortly after the Kou Voravong's murder, Phoui Sananikone tendered his resignation. But it was not made public because of fear of major political crisis considering the current state of tension in the country after the Geneva Conference. Supported by France, the current government was trying hard to apply the agreements signed in Geneva, in particular maintaining political neutrality and integrating the Pathet Lao. But as might be expected, the crisis broke out as soon as revelation, and his resignation led to the fall of the whole government, already weakened by this case.\n\nNegotiations to form the 5th Royal Government were long and difficult. For more than a month, emotions ran high and exacerbated. The positions were violent, and some did not hesitate to exploit the recent attack and the Kou Voravong's murder to threaten their opponents. A two-thirds majority was necessary for a nomination, but no major political party came to get it. A compromise was reached between the two major parties: half members of former neutralist government – pro-French, favoring the strict application of the agreements signed at Geneva – and half members of the progressive opposition – pro-American, opposed to this same agreements – knowing that neither side was intending to grant concessions to the other. The Prime Minister's choice fell on the progressive Katay Don Sasorith to the detriment of his neutralist opponent Chao Souvanna Phouma, considered « far too leftist » by Americans who, recently, took over French in Lao political circles.\n\nAmerican intervention in Laos remained discreet and without any local influence until the Geneva Conference. On September 9, 1951, an agreement had been signed between Washington and the Royal Government for economic and, to a lesser extent, military support. Only a small number of Protestant missionaries and a project manager, accompanied by a few USIS and CIA's agents were settled in Vientiane, in 1953. But as the independence movement was led by the Communist Party, and Vietnam was geographically close to China and not far from North Korea, USA got interested in the conflict taking place in Indochina. To justify their intervention, the Americans referred to the \"Domino theory\" that if Vietnam fell into the hands of the Communists, neighboring countries would follow, earned by the contagion or assaulted by military forces from Hanoi. This shift would change radically forces East/West reports in whole Asia.\n\nIn the other camp, the battle of Dien Bien Phu's victory enabled Việt Minh to control the area of North-Laos, but Ho Chi Minh nourished a higher ambition for Indochina. Even though the Geneva Agreements decreed the neutrality of Cambodia and Laos, Hanoi considered that the independence of Vietnam could not be complete as long as its two neighboring countries remained under \"imperialist domination\". The Hanoi Government undertook since the end of the 1950s, to support the guerrillas to infiltrate South Viet Nam by constructing a logistical network underground in the border region inside Laos, later known as Ho Chi Minh Trail. Considerable economic, technical and military aid from the USSR and China would be granted.\n\nAccording to the \"Domino theory\", Americans considered that the defense of South Vietnam should start by that of Laos because of its strategic position. Washington would first of all seek to influence the Laotian policy circle by encouraging the establishment of pro-American governments in Vientiane, before deciding on direct military intervention.\n\nDespite the Geneva Agreements on the neutrality of Laos, the US Department of Defense established, under cover of economic assistance, a secret paramilitary mission called the \"Programs Evaluation Office\" (PEO), operational from December 1955 and composed of plainclothes officers whose mission was to provide military assistance to the anti-communist right-wing armies. From 1955 to 1963, on a total budget of 481 million of assistance to Laos, the United States would spend $153 million to educate, train and equip the Lao National Army, as well as the Hmong guerrillas secret army, commanded by General Vang Pao against the combatants of the Pathet Lao. Then from May 1964, they proceeded to the massive air raids, especially on the Ho Chi Minh Trail and in the Xieng Khouang Province, while their local allies, helped by CIA agents, involved overland. Until the ceasefire in 1973, the United States took over the Second Indochina War and the Laotians would hardly have any more words to say.\n\nIn June 1958, the \"Committee for the Defense of National Interests\" was created in Vientiane. Its program was the eviction of communist ministers of the \"Lao Neo Hak Sat\" party (ແນວລາວຮັກຊາດ), and the overthrow of the neutralist Government, in order to maintain Laos in the United States orbit. This civic association of young Laotians, anti-communist and renovator, was led by the army strongman, the general Phoumi Nosavan. Born in the Thai-Lao region border (Moukdahane-Savannakhet), he was the nephew of Sarit Thanarat (thai: สฤษดิ์ ธนะรัชต์) – the current Thai Government Prime minister – and first of all, the general Phoumi Nosavan was Kou Voravong's cousin and brother-in-law.\n\nDuring the confrontations in 1946, Phoumi Nosavan had sided with Chao Phetsarath's Lao Issara Government. And then in the aftermath of the defeat, he took refuge in Thailand. Upon his return from exile in 1949, he joined the newly formed Lao National Army, created in March of the same year.\n\nEarly in 1950, when Bounkong and his band engaged in violent anti-government campaigns in the South of the country, Kou Voravong created the \"Pacification of Southern Laos Mission\" to combat internal subversion and border piracy. This organization whose headquarter was based in Pakse, was responsible to bring together supporters, volunteers and former members of the Lao Issara movement, to form units to combat subversion and banditry. Occupied with his ministerial responsibilities in Vientiane, he entrusted the command to his cousin and brother-in-law, the young lieutenant Phoumi Nosavan.\n\nConsidering that the Bounkong Band was known in the province, he got in touch with its members and proposed them negotiations so that they convinced the local insurgents to lay down arms and to adhered to the national cause. But the bandits would take advantage of the naivety of the young lieutenant to carry out during several months, acts of banditry, spying and intense anti-government guerrillas, by using the pass, material and funds provided by the chief himself. Despite the failure of the \"Pacification of Southern Laos Mission\" which has nearly cost his political career, Kou Voravong renewed his confidence in Phoumi Nosavan who would pursue his military career until becoming the Lao National Army's chief of staff, in 1955.\n\nFollowing Kou Voravong's death, he led his family members in their search for the truth concerning the assassination. In 1960, during the legislative election campaign of Ou (ອຸ) and Bounthong (ບຸນທົງ) – Kou Voravong's half-brothers – the three cousins promised to the Savannakhet population that in the event of electoral success they would pay tribute to their brother and cousin, \"the home-grown child\", a murdered rising political figure. Ou and Bounthong Voravong shall be both elected assembly members of the Savannakhet Province that year.\n\nStarting from 1959 and during six years, with the financial support of the CIA, the general Phoumi Nosavan became the dominant figure in the Laotian political life. At the height of his career in May 1960, thanks to his relationship with Sarit Thanarat – the current Thai Prime Minister – and in association with Ou and Bounthong Voravong, he commissioned and financed a life-size statue of Kou Voravong at the Department of Fine Arts of the Ministry of Culture of Thailand. In Savannakhet, a \"Kou Voravong Stadium\" was built at the extreme north of the avenue of the same name, and the site of the statue was planned on an esplanade just at the entrance.\n\nBut the country was immersed in a civil war, itself within the context of the Cold War. In 1963, when his uncle the General Sarit Thanarat died, he lost Thailand's Government support, while on the other side, the United States opted for direct military intervention policy. At the end of January 1965, after several \"disobediences\" to the American military advisory, and following a coup against his government, whose instigator was General Kouprasith Abhay, Phoumi Nosavan was forced to go into exile in Thailand with his followers and relatives. The statue of Kou Voravong had not been erected and still waiting in the reserve of Fine Arts Department in Bangkok during nearly 30 years.\n\nAfter a first relationship with Nang Meng (ນາງເມັງ) with whom he had a son – Thao Bouaphet (ທ້າວບົວເພັດ) – Kou Voravong, a young official at the time, married in 1938, Nang Sounthone Souvannavong (ນາງສູນທອນ ສຸວັນນະວົງ), a young nurse / midwife at the Mahosot Hospital in Vientiane. From this union four children were born: Thao Anorath (ທ້າວອະໂນຣາດ) – Nang Phokham (ນາງໂພຄຳ) – Nang Phogheun (ນາງໂພເງິນ) and Thao Anouroth (ທ້າວອນຸຣົດ).\n\nThao Bouaphet and Nang Phokham went to live in Thailand with their families in 1965, following their uncle, the general Phoumi Nosavan. With the exception of Anorath who died in Laos short after his return from the Sam Neua \"rehabilitation camp\", all of them would emigrated to France from 1976, when the Communist Party Neo Lao Hak Sat (NLHS) came to power and proclaimed the Lao People's Democratic Republic (LPDR).\n\nWhen the general Phoumi Nosavan died in Bangkok in 1985, since the time-limit for conservation by the Department of Fine Arts was thirty years, questions arose regarding the statue of Kou Voravong. In 1989, the collapse of the communist Eastern Bloc – symbolized by the Berlin Wall's fall – allowed gradually Laos to enter the market economy, which then provided the opportunity for the Voravong children to approach the LPDR authorities for the return to the country of their father's statue. In 1992, the cost of conserving paid, the statue was legally returned to the family. The eldest daughter of Thao Bouaphet, who lived in Bangkok, entrusted it to the monastery of Amphawan (thai language: วัดอัมพวัน), around the Thai capital.\n\nPermission to return to Savannakhet was issued in early 1994 by the Government of Laos. After another year of waiting in the Vat Xayaphoum Temple in Savannakhet, the statue was ceremoniously erected on Saturday, January 7, 1995 by the family and officials, on the private land adjacent to the family residence. On this occasion, a host temple for monks and travelers (ກຸຕິ) was built and offered to the Vat Xayaphoum Temple by the family of Nang Somnuk (married Simukda – ນາງສົມນຶກ ສີມຸກດາ) – one of Kou Voravong's three half-sisters – in association with Thao Anouroth, the youngest son.\n\nAlthough it is located within a family property and therefore considered by the Government as a private monument, the statue remains visible to the general public and may nevertheless be extended to general knowledge. Situated at the corner of \"Soutthanou Street\" and \"Kou Voravong Street\", it is presented as a \"curiosity\" of Savannakhet City by some tourist guides as the site is located coincidentally in front of the birthplace of Kaysone Phomvihane – the very first president of the Lao People's Democratic Republic.\n\nAs for the city of Thakhek, the capital of Khammouan Province, a tribute was paid to the former governor Kou Voravong by giving his name to the main street which was completed in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "29374622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29374622", "title": "List of Turkish diplomats assassinated by Armenian militant organisations", "text": "List of Turkish diplomats assassinated by Armenian militant organisations\n\nThis is a list of Turkish diplomats killed by Armenian militant organisations. The list includes families of diplomats as well as staff members killed as a result of attacks directed against Turkish diplomats.\n\nThe attacks that are listed here begin with the assassination of Mehmet Baydar, Turkish Consul General to Los Angeles and Bahadır Demir, Consul at the same Consulate General. Although the attacks against Turkish diplomats began with these assassinations in 1973 by an individual perpetrator, Kourken Yanigian, the Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia (ASALA) and Justice Commandos of the Armenian Genocide (JCAG) have assumed – or in some cases been accused of – the responsibility of attacks against Turkish diplomats and other Turkish interests in 16 countries between 1975 and 1984.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3382590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3382590", "title": "List of fatalities at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway", "text": "List of fatalities at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway\n\nThe following is a list of 73 individuals killed at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway: 42 drivers, one motorcyclist, 13 riding mechanics, and 17 others including a pit crew member, track personnel, and spectators. All fatalities are related to Championship Car races at the speedway unless otherwise noted.\n\nFatalities have occurred in conjunction with the Indianapolis 500 and its precursors, the Brickyard 400, the Moto GP event, the Speedway's golf course, and during private testing. During World War I, while the speedway was being used as a landing strip and a maintenance and refueling station for the 821st Aero Repair Squadron, at least one test pilot was fatally injured in a plane crash at the track.\n\n"}
{"id": "51700997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51700997", "title": "Manuchar III Jaqeli", "text": "Manuchar III Jaqeli\n\nManuchar III Jaqeli (; 1591–1625), of the House of Jaqeli, was the last atabeg of the principality of Samtskhe, nominally ruling between 1607–1625. As a child, he accompanied his father, Manuchar II Jaqeli, when the latter settled at the Safavid Iranian court, then located at Qazvin. Later, when the Iranian royal court had already been moved to Isfahan, his mother Elene had been making efforts in order for her son to be able to succeed as the next atabeg, and she discussed the matter at the court with then incumbent Safavid king Abbas I (r. 1588–1624), Alexander II of Kakheti, as well as the Portuguese diplomat Antonio de Gouvea. With Manuchar III living at the court, Elene herself received \"virtually nothing\" from Abbas I, although she had offered him sovereignty over Samtskhe. After having been confirmed in 1607 as ruler of Samtskhe by Abbas I, Manuchar III continued to fight the Ottomans in a similar fashion to his father. However, he did so until 1608, when due to the circumstances, he was forced to flee to Kartli. Following his father's death in 1614, Manuchar III now officially claimed the title of atabeg of Samtskhe and made active efforts in order to incite anti-Ottoman sentiments in the area. Later, in 1624, he battled against the Ottoman pasha of Erzurum, and shortly after, he moved again to Kartli. There, he supported Giorgi Saakadze against the Iranians, and was reputable at the Battle of Marabda. In the year 1625, he restarted relations with the Ottomans, who subsequently confirmed him as atabeg of Samtskhe; when he actually returned to Samtskhe however, he was killed (poisoined) by his own uncle Beka Jaqeli, better known as Sefer Pasha. Manuchar III was the last Christian ruler of Samtskhe; upon his death in 1625, the Ottomans completely incorporated the western part of the principality of Samtskhe as a pashalik. In 1639, by the Treaty of Zuhab, they also gained the eastern part, which had been under Safavid control. The members of the House of Jaqeli, who had been at the head of the principality for centuries, converted to Islam, and remained in power as hereditary pashas in the Ottoman service.\n\n"}
{"id": "31193532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31193532", "title": "Metabolic age", "text": "Metabolic age\n\nMetabolic age is calculated by comparing one's basal metabolic rate to the average of one's chronological age group. Basal metabolic rate is the amount of energy consumed per unit of time when all environmental factors are considered neutral, the digestive system is in a post-absorptive state (meaning that the digestive system is inactive, which requires about twelve hours of fasting in humans), and the energy expenditure is only sufficient to support normal functioning of the vital organs, the heart, lungs, nervous system, kidneys, liver, intestine, sex organs, muscles, and skin. Formulas for estimating basal metabolic rate take into account age, weight, height, activity level, body fat mass, and lean body mass.\n\nAll the components in the body require various levels of energy to be maintained. Body fat requires much less energy than lean muscle, as lean muscle is much more metabolically active and therefore requires more energy expenditure to remain in homeostasis. If comparing two individuals, with all variables being equal, the person with more lean muscle mass will have a higher basal metabolic rate, and therefore, a lower metabolic age in comparison to those with the identical chronological age.\n"}
{"id": "21830377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21830377", "title": "Metamerism (biology)", "text": "Metamerism (biology)\n\nIn biology, metamerism is the phenomenon of having a linear series of body segments fundamentally similar in structure, though not all such structures are entirely alike in any single life form because some of them perform special functions.\nIn animals, metameric segments are referred to as somites or metameres. In plants, they are referred to as metamers or, more concretely, phytomers.\n\nIn animals, metamery is defined as a mesodermal event resulting in serial repetition of unit subdivisions of ectoderm and mesoderm products. Endoderm is not involved in metamery. Segmentation is not the same concept as metamerism. Segmentation can be confined only to ectodermally derived tissue, e.g., in the Cestoda tapeworms. Metamerism is far more important biologically since it results in metameres, also called somites, that play a critical role in advanced locomotion.\n\nMetamerism can be divided into two main categories: \n\nIn addition, an animal may be classified as \"pseudometameric\" meaning that it has clear internal metamerism but no corresponding external metamerism as is seen, for example, in Monoplacophora.\n\nHumans and other chordates are conspicuous examples of organisms that have metameres intimately grouped into tagmata. In the Chordata the metameres of each tagma are fused to such an extent that few repetitive features are directly visible. Intensive investigation is necessary to discern the metamerism in the tagmata of such organisms. Examples of detectable evidence of vestigially metameric structures include branchial arches and cranial nerves.\n\nIn some schemes, the concept of metamerism is regarded as one of the four principles of construction of the human body, common to many animals, together with general bilateral symmetry (or zygomorphism), pachymerism (or tubulation), and stratification. More recent schemes include also other three concepts: segmentation (conceived as different from metamerism), polarity and endocrinosity.\n\nA metamer is one of several segments that share in the construction of a shoot, or into which a shoot may be conceptually (at least) resolved. In the metameristic model, a plant consists of a series of 'phytons' or phytomers, each consisting of an internode and its upper node with the attached leaf. As Asa Gray (1850) wrote:\n\nThe branch, or simple stem itself, is manifestly an assemblage of similar parts, placed one above another in a continuous series, developed one from another in successive generations. Each one of these joints of stem, bearing its leaf at the apex, is a plant element; or as we term it a phyton,—a potential plant, having all the organs of vegetation, namely, stem, leaf, and in its downward development even a root, or its equivalent. This view of the composition of the plant, though by no means a new one, has not been duly appreciated. I deem it essential to a correct philosophical understanding of the plant.\n\nSome plants, particularly grasses, demonstrate a rather clear metameric construction, but many others either lack discrete modules or their presence is more arguable. Phyton theory has been criticized as an over-ingenious, academic conception which bears little relation to reality. Eames (1961) concluded that \"concepts of the shoot as consisting of a series of structural units have been obscured by the dominance of the stem- and leaf-theory. Anatomical units like these do not exist: the shoot is the basic unit.\" Even so, others still consider comparative study along the length of the metameric organism to be a fundamental aspect of plant morphology.\n\nMetameric conceptions generally segment the vegetative axis into repeating units along its length, but constructs based on other divisions are possible. The pipe model theory conceives of the plant (especially trees) as made up of \"unit pipes\" ('metamers'), each supporting a unit amount of photosynthetic tissue. Vertical metamers are also suggested in some desert shrubs in which the stem is modified into isolated strips of xylem, each having continuity from root to shoot. This may enable the plant to abscise a large part of its shoot system in response to drought, without damaging the remaining part.\n\nIn vascular plants, the shoot system differs fundamentally from the root system in that the former shows a metameric construction (repeated units of organs; stem, leaf, and inflorescence), while the latter does not. The plant embryo represents the first metamer of the shoot in spermatophytes or seed plants.\n\nPlants (especially trees) are considered to have a 'modular construction,' a module being an axis in which the entire sequence of aerial differentiation is carried out from the initiation of the meristem to the onset of sexuality (e.g. flower or cone development) which completes its development. These modules are considered to be developmental units, not necessarily structural.\n\n"}
{"id": "4794736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4794736", "title": "Mishal Awad Sayaf Alhabiri", "text": "Mishal Awad Sayaf Alhabiri\n\nMishal Awad Sayaf Alhabiri (Arabic: مشعل عواد سياف الهابري) is a citizen of Saudi Arabia, who was held in extrajudicial detention in the United States Guantanamo Bay detention camps, in Cuba.\nHis Guantanamo Internment Serial Number was 207.\nAmerican intelligence analysts estimate he was born in 1980, in Minawara, Saudi Arabia.\n\nOn March 3, 2006, the Department of Defense released 5,000 pages of documents about the detainees, in partial compliance with a court order from US District Court Judge Jed Rakoff.\n\nThose documents revealed that Alhabiri suffered life-changing brain damage while in Guantanamo. Camp authorities attribute the brain damage to a suicide attempt on January 16, 2003:\nFellow captives, on the other hand, attribute the brain damage to a brutal beating by the camp's controversial Immediate Reaction Force. They say the IRF was entering all the cells on Alhabiri's cell block when detainees were loudly objecting to an account of Qur'an abuse.\n\nHis Personal Representative filed the following statement on his behalf.\n\nDetainees whose Combatant Status Review Tribunal classified them as \"enemy combatants\" were scheduled for annual Administrative Review Board hearings. These hearings were designed to assess the threat a detainee might pose if released or transferred, and whether there were other factors that warranted his continued detention.\n\nA Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for \nMishal Awad Sayaf Alhabiri's\nAdministrative Review Board, \non December 9, 2004.\nThe memo listed factors for and against his continued detention.\n\n\"The following primary factors favor continued detention\"\n\"The following primary factors favor release or transfer\"\n\nIn September 2007, the Department of Defense released an index to 133 captives' Boards memos containing the recommendations as to whether the detainees should remain in custody.\nThe DoD also released the memos for those 133 men. Mishal Awad Sayaf Alhabri was not on that list. His Board's recommendation memo was not released.\n\nReuters cites a Human Rights Watch report that said Alhabri, and two other Saudis, were repatriated to Saudi custody on July 20, 2005.\nAs of May 26, 2006, the three remain held, without charge, in Riyadh's al-Ha'ir prison.\n\nAs of July 26, 2007, Mishal al Harbi, who had received treatment at a hospital in Medina, had married a Saudi women and hoped to find a job that could make him self-reliant. Before he was allowed to marry, the Saudi Interior Ministry required that he complete a number of rehabilitation programs, required for all Guantanamo returnees.\n\nOn March 1, 2007, the Washington Post published an article about Alhabri, and his family.\n\nThe article quotes Alhabri, his older brother, and released fellow captives who had been held in cells neighboring Alhabri's, who offered an alternative account of his injury — that he was injured while the camp's Immediate Reaction Force were entering the cells of captives who were yelling in outrage after witnessing the Qur'an being abused.\n\nAccording to the article Alhabri has seizures, slurred speech, tremors and twitches, and memory lapses. He uses a wheelchair. The article's final paragraph quotes his older brother, and caregiver: \n\nAll the men who were released from Guantanamo, they are now leading a normal life, But Mishal can't walk, get himself a glass of water or go to the bathroom by himself. I just want him to go back the way he was before Guantanamo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2440635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2440635", "title": "Neil Moss (caver)", "text": "Neil Moss (caver)\n\nNeil Moss (full name Oscar Hackett Neil Moss, (1938 - March 22, 1959) was the victim of a famous caving accident in England on Sunday, March 22, 1959. A twenty-year-old undergraduate studying philosophy at Balliol College, Oxford, Moss became jammed underground, 1,000 feet from the entrance after descending a narrow unexplored shaft in Peak Cavern, a famous cave system in Castleton in Derbyshire. Initial attempts suicide and tries to haul him free failed because the rope broke several times. When he lost consciousness as carbon dioxide from his own respiration built up in the base of the shaft, he was unable to assist further rescue attempts made with a stronger rope. More rescue efforts were made: June Bailey gave up after six hours, \"driven back by foul air,\" and caving veteran Bob Leakey, in a frogman suit, could not get to him. Moss never regained consciousness and was declared dead on the morning of Tuesday, March 24, after the final rescue attempt had failed.\n\nHis father, wishing to avoid further injury or loss of life in an attempt to retrieve his body, requested that it be left in place, wishing no one else to risk life or limb. The fissure was sealed with concrete and an inscription was later placed nearby. This section of Peak Cavern is now known as Moss Chamber.\n\nIt was thought that he became stuck because he had moved a boulder at the bottom which had trapped the ladder, thus preventing him being pulled up by rescuers. The distance between the rungs of the ladder was too great for someone of his height to reach through the remaining gap.\n\nThe story of Moss's death was widely publicised and appeared also in American newspapers and Australian newspapers; it was retold in the novel \"One Last Breath\" (2004) by Stephen Booth. In 2006, filmmaker Dave Webb - a Derbyshire caver himself - produced a dvd on the story titled Fight For Life - The Neil Moss Story\n\n"}
{"id": "5406396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5406396", "title": "Pandulf IV of Benevento", "text": "Pandulf IV of Benevento\n\nPandulf IV (died 7 February 1074) was the co-prince of Benevento with his father Landulf VI from 1056, when his grandfather Pandulf III was still reigning, to his own death in battle before that of his father.\n\nProbably in 1059, the elder Pandulf abdicated and retired to the monastery of S. Sofia, leaving Landulf and the younger Pandulf sole princes. Pandulf was probably present on 1 October 1071 at the reconsecration of the Abbey of Monte Cassino. He does not appear in the 12 August 1073 charter in which his father swore fidelity to Pope Gregory VII. At that point, however, Landulf does not appear again in the chronicles and Pandulf seems to have taken over the main responsibilities as prince. Pandulf warred against the Normans. He was killed at the Battle of Montesarchio on 7 February 1074.\n\n"}
{"id": "31017945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31017945", "title": "Perla Achával", "text": "Perla Achával\n\nPerla Achával was an Argentine actress. She starred in the 1950 film \"Arroz con leche\".\n\n"}
{"id": "457156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457156", "title": "Ray Conniff", "text": "Ray Conniff\n\nJoseph Raymond Conniff (November 6, 1916 – October 12, 2002) was an American bandleader and arranger best known for his Ray Conniff Singers during the 1960s.\n\nConniff was born in Attleboro, Massachusetts, and learned to play the trombone from his father. He studied music arranging from a course book.\n\nAfter serving in the U.S. Army in World War II (where he worked under Walter Schumann), he joined the Artie Shaw big band and wrote many arrangements for him. After his stint with Shaw, he was then hired by Mitch Miller, then head of A&R at Columbia Records, as their home arranger, working with several artists including Rosemary Clooney, Marty Robbins, Frankie Laine, Johnny Mathis, Guy Mitchell and Johnnie Ray. He wrote a top 10 arrangement for Don Cherry's \"Band of Gold\" in 1955, a single that sold more than a million copies. Among the hit singles he backed with his orchestra (and eventually with a male chorus) were \"Yes Tonight Josephine\" and \"Just Walkin' in the Rain\" by Johnnie Ray; \"Chances Are\" and \"It's Not for Me to Say\" by Johnny Mathis; \"A White Sport Coat\" and \"The Hanging Tree\" by Marty Robbins; \"Moonlight Gambler\" by Frankie Laine; \"Up Above My Head,\" a duet by Frankie Laine and Johnnie Ray; and \"Pet Me, Poppa\" by Rosemary Clooney. He also backed up the albums \"Tony\" by Tony Bennett, \"Blue Swing\" by Eileen Rodgers, \"Swingin' for Two\" by Don Cherry, and half the tracks of \"The Big Beat\" by Johnnie Ray. In these early years he produced similar-sounding records for Columbia's Epic label under the name of Jay Raye (which stood for \"Joseph Raymond\") amongst them a backing album and singles with Somethin' Smith and the Redheads, an American male vocal group.\n\nBetween 1957-68, Conniff had 28 albums in the American Top 40, the most famous one being \"Somewhere My Love\" (1966). He topped the album list in Britain in 1969 with \"His Orchestra, His Chorus, His Singers, His Sound,\" an album which was originally published to promote his European tour (Germany, Austria, Switzerland) in 1969. He also was the first American popular artist to record in Russia—in 1974 he recorded \"Ray Conniff in Moscow\" with the help of a local choir. His later albums like \"Exclusivamente Latino,\" \"Amor Amor,\" and \"Latinisimo\" made him very popular in Latin-American countries, even more so after performing in the Viña del Mar International Song Festival. In Brazil and Chile he was treated like a young pop superstar in the 1980s and 1990s when he was in his 70s and 80s. He even played live with his orchestra and eight-person chorus in large football stadiums as well as in Viña del Mar.\n\nConniff commented, \"One time I was recording an album with Mitch Miller - we had a big band and a small choir. I decided to have the choir sing along with the big band using wordless lyrics. The women were doubled with the trumpets and the men were doubled with the trombones. In the booth Mitch was totally surprised and excited at how well it worked.\" Because of the success of his backing arrangements, and the new sound Conniff created, Miller allowed him to make his own record, and this became the successful \"’s Wonderful!\", a collection of standards that were recorded with an orchestra and a wordless singing chorus (four men, four women). He released many more albums in the same vein, including \"’s Marvelous\" (1957, gold album), \"’s Awful Nice\" (1958), \"Concert in Rhythm\" (1958, gold album), \"Broadway in Rhythm\" (1958), \"Hollywood in Rhythm\" (1959), \"Concert in Rhythm\", Vol. II (1960), \"Say It With Music\" (1960), \"Memories Are Made of This\" (1960, gold album), and \"’s Continental\" (1962). His second album was \"Dance the Bop!\" (1957). It was an experiment by one of the brass at Columbia to cash in on a conceived dance step creation, but from the outset, Conniff disliked it. When it sold poorly, he had it withdrawn from the market.\n\nIn 1959 he started The Ray Conniff Singers (12 women and 13 men, comprising mainly the Ron Hicklin Singers with augmentation by others) and released the album \"It's the Talk of the Town.\" This group brought him the biggest hit he ever had in his career: \"Somewhere My Love\" (1966). The lyrics of the album's title selection were written to the music of \"Lara's Theme\" from the film \"Doctor Zhivago,\" and the result was a top 10 single in the US.\n\nThe album reached the US top 20 and went platinum, and Conniff won a Grammy. The single and album also reached high positions in the international charts (a.o. Australia, Germany, Great Britain, Japan), while the first of four Christmas albums by the Singers, \"Christmas with Conniff\" (1959) was also successful.\n\nNearly 50 years after its release, in 2004, Conniff was posthumously awarded a platinum album/CD. Other well-known releases by the Singers included \"Ray Conniff's Hawaiian album\" (1967), featuring the hit song \"Pearly Shells\" and \"Bridge Over Troubled Water\" (1970), which included Conniff's original composition \"Someone\", and remakes of such hits as \"All I Have to Do is Dream\", \"I'll Never Fall in Love Again\", and \"Something\".\n\nMusically different highlights in Conniff's career are two albums he produced in cooperation with Billy Butterfield, an old friend from earlier swing days. \"Conniff Meets Butterfield\" (1959) featured Butterfield's solo trumpet and a small rhythm group; \"Just Kiddin' Around\" (after a Conniff original composition from the 1940s), released 1963, featured additional trombone solos by Ray himself. Both albums are pure light jazz and did not feature any vocals.\n\nConniff recorded in New York from 1955–61, and mainly in Los Angeles from 1962 through 2000. Later in the 1960s he produced an average of two instrumental and one vocal album a year.\n\nIn 1979, Conniff was hired to re-arrange and record a new version of \"Those Were The Days\" and \"Remembering You\", the opening and closing themes to \"All In The Family\" for Carroll O'Connor's new spin-off, \"Archie Bunker's Place\" on CBS with a small ensemble, trombone solo, and honky-tonk piano. Conniff sold about 70 million albums worldwide, and continued recording and performing until his death in 2002.\n\nRay Conniff died in Escondido, California, after falling and hitting his head on the sink, and is buried in the Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery in Los Angeles, California. His grave marker bears a musical score with the first four notes of \"Somewhere My Love\". Conniff left his wife, Vera; a daughter, Tamara Conniff, and three grandchildren. His son, Jimmy Conniff, died in 2015.\n\nIn 2004, a memorial two-CD compilation set, \"The Essential Ray Conniff,\" was released, featuring many rare and previously unreleased tracks. \"The Singles Collection, Vol. 1\" was released on the Collectables label in 2005, \"The Singles Collection, Vol. 2\" in 2007, and Vol. 3 was released in 2009. These collections feature rare singles and previously unissued tracks. His music is also featured prominently in the movie \"There's Something About Mary\".\n\nFrom 1962 through 2001, membership in the Ray Conniff Singers included:\n\nTenor\n\n\nBass and Baritone\n\nSoprano\n\n\nAlto\n\n\nRay Conniff was one of the most successful easy listening artists on the Billboard magazine album chart, placing 30 albums on their Billboard Hot 200 charts to 1973. \n\n\nA special version of the song \"Happiness Is\" was recorded for use in a TV commercial for Kent cigarettes, prior to the ban on TV advertising of tobacco products.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16494995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16494995", "title": "SF-36", "text": "SF-36\n\nThe Short Form (36) Health Survey is a 36-item, patient-reported survey of patient health. The SF-36 is a measure of health status and an abbreviated variant of it, the SF-6D, is commonly used in health economics as a variable in the quality-adjusted life year calculation to determine the cost-effectiveness of a health treatment. The original SF-36 came out from the Medical Outcome Study, MOS, done by the RAND Corporation. Since then a group of researchers from the original study released a commercial version of SF-36 while the original SF-36 is available in public domain license free from RAND. A shorter version is the SF-12. If having only adequate physical and mental health summary scores is of interest, \"then the SF12 may be the instrument of choice\".\n\nThe SF-36 and RAND-36 include the same set of items that were developed in the Medical Outcomes Study. Scoring of the general health and pain scales is different between the versions. The differences in scoring are summarized by Hays, Sherbourne, and Mazel (Health Economics, 2: 217-227, 1993).\n\nThe SF-36 consists of eight scaled scores, which are the weighted sums of the questions in their section. Each scale is directly transformed into a 0-100 scale on the assumption that each question carries equal weight. The lower the score the more disability. The higher the score the less disability i.e., a score of zero is equivalent to maximum disability and a score of 100 is equivalent to no disability. To calculate the scores it is necessary to purchase special software. Pricing depends on the number of scores that the researcher needs to calculate.\n\nThe eight sections are:\n\nInstructions for converting the individual scores into z-scores and to provide standardised combined scores (mean 50, standard deviation 10) for several populations (Australian women, combined or in three different age groups, also the general Australian and US population - for example younger people have better physical score averages) are on the website of the Australian Longitudinal Study of Women's Health. SAS code is provided as well.\n\nAn interesting point of the document is that physical health scores are counted negatively when calculating combined mental health scores and vice versa. In other words, to score highly on mental health it is better to have worse physical health and vice versa. This is the result of the negative weights that resulted from the principal component analysis used. If you have perfect physical and mental health, your scores are on a 50 mean / 10 standard deviation scale: 56.5 for physical health and 62.5 for mental health if you use the Australian population numbers in the ALSWH document. If you have perfect physical but the worst mental health your physical health score is 61.6 and for the opposite your mental health score is 66.2.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3354877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3354877", "title": "Social neuroscience", "text": "Social neuroscience\n\nSocial neuroscience is an interdisciplinary field devoted to understanding how biological systems implement social processes and behavior, and to using biological concepts and methods to inform and refine theories of social processes and behavior. Humans are fundamentally a social species, rather than individualists. As such, \"Homo sapiens\" create emergent organizations beyond the individual—structures that range from dyads, families, and groups to cities, civilizations, and cultures. These emergent structures evolved hand in hand with neural and hormonal mechanisms to support them because the consequent social behaviors helped these organisms survive, reproduce, and care for offspring sufficiently long that they too survived to reproduce. The term \"social neuroscience\" can be traced to a publication entitled \"Social Neuroscience Bulletin\" that was published quarterly between 1988 and 1994. The term was subsequently popularized in an article by John Cacioppo and Gary Berntson, published in the American Psychologist in 1992. Cacioppo and Berntson are considered as the legitimate fathers of social neuroscience. Still a young field, social neuroscience is closely related to affective neuroscience and cognitive neuroscience, focusing on how the brain mediates social interactions. The biological underpinnings of social cognition are investigated in social cognitive neuroscience\n\nTraditional neuroscience has for many years considered the nervous system as an isolated entity and largely ignored influences of the social environments in which humans and many animal species live. In fact, we now recognize the considerable impact of social structures on the operations of the brain and body. These social factors operate on the individual through a continuous interplay of neural, neuroendocrine, metabolic and immune factors on brain and body, in which the brain is the central regulatory organ and also a malleable target of these factors. Social neuroscience investigates the biological mechanisms that underlie social processes and behavior, widely considered one of the major problem areas for the neurosciences in the 21st century, and applies concepts and methods of biology to develop theories of social processes and behavior in the social and behavioral sciences. Social neuroscience capitalizes on biological concepts and methods to inform and refine theories of social behavior, and it uses social and behavioral constructs and data to advance theories of neural organization and function.\n\nThroughout most of the 20th century, social and biological explanations were widely viewed as incompatible. But advances in recent years have led to the development of a new approach synthesized from the social and biological sciences. The new field of social neuroscience emphasizes the complementary relationship between the different levels of organization, spanning the social and biological domains (e.g., molecular, cellular, system, person, relational, collective, societal) and the use of multi-level analyses to foster understanding of the mechanisms underlying the human mind and behavior.\n\nA number of methods are used in social neuroscience to investigate the confluence of neural and social processes. These methods draw from behavioral techniques developed in social psychology, cognitive psychology, and neuropsychology, and are associated with a variety of neurobiological techniques including functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), magnetoencephalography (MEG), positron emission tomography (PET), facial electromyography (EMG), transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), electroencephalography (EEG), event-related potentials (ERPs), electrocardiograms, electromyograms, endocrinology, immunology, galvanic skin response (GSR), single-cell recording, and studies of focal brain lesion patients. Animal models are also important to investigate the putative role of specific brain structures, circuits, or processes (e.g., the reward system and drug addiction). In addition, quantitative meta-analyses are important to move beyond idiosyncrasies of individual studies, and neurodevelopmental investigations can contribute to our understanding of brain-behavior associations. The two most popular forms of methods used in social neuroscience are fMRI and EEG. fMRI are very cost efficient and high in spatial resolution. However, they are low in temporal resolution and therefore, are best to discover pathways in the brain that are used during social experiments. fMRI have low temporal resolution (timing) because they read oxygenated blood levels that pool to the parts of the brain that are activated and need more oxygen. Thus, the blood takes time to travel to the part of the brain being activated and in reverse provides a lower ability to test for exact timing of activation during social experiments. EEG is best used when a researcher is trying to brain map a certain area that correlates to a social construct that is being studied. EEGs provide high temporal resolution but low spatial resolution. In which, the timing of the activation is very accurate but it is hard to pinpoint exact areas on the brain, researchers are to narrow down locations and areas but they also create a lot of \"noise\". Most recently, researchers have been using TMS which is the best way to discover the exact location in the process of brain mapping. This machine can turn on and off parts of the brain which then allows researchers to test what that part of the brain is used for during social events. However, this machine is so expensive that it is rarely used.\n\nNote: Most of these methods can only provide correlations between brain mapping and social events (apart from TMS), a con of Social Neuroscience is that the research must be interpreted through correlations which can cause a decreased content validity. For example, during an experiment when a participant is doing a task to test for a social theory and a part of the brain is activated, it is impossible to form causality because anything else in the room or the thoughts of the person could have triggered that response. It is very hard to isolate these variables during these experiments. That is why self-reports are very important. This will also help decrease the chances of VooDoo correlations (correlations that are too high and over 0.8 which look like a correlation exists between two factors but actually is just an error in design and statistical measures). Another way to avoid this con, is to use tests with hormones which can infer causality. For example, when people are given oxytocin and placebos and we can test their differences in social behavior between other people. Using SCRs will also help isolate unconscious thoughts and conscious thoughts because it is the body's natural parasympathetic response to the outside world. All of these tests and devices will help social neuroscientists discover the connections in the brain that are used to carry out our everyday social activities.\n\nPrimarily psychological methods include performance-based measures that record response time and/or accuracy, such as the Implicit Association Test; observational measures such as preferential looking in infant studies; and, self-report measures, such as questionnaire and interviews.\n\nNeurobiological methods can be grouped together into ones that measure more external bodily responses, electrophysiological methods, hemodynamic measures, and lesion methods. \nBodily response methods include GSR (also known as skin conductance response (SCR)), facial EMG, and the eyeblink startle response. Electrophysiological methods include single-cell recordings, EEG, and ERPs. Hemodynamic measures, which, instead of directly measuring neural activity, measure changes in blood flow, include PET and fMRI. Lesion methods traditionally study brains that have been damaged via natural causes, such as strokes, traumatic injuries, tumors, neurosurgery, infection, or neurodegenerative disorders. In its ability to create a type of 'virtual lesion' that is temporary, TMS may also be included in this category. More specifically, TMS methods involve stimulating one area of the brain to isolate it from the rest of the brain, imitating a brain lesion. This is particularly helpful in brain mapping, a key approach in social neuroscience designed to determine which areas of the brain are activated during certain activities.\n\nProlonged maternal separation of rodents correlates with elevated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis response to stress, as well as diminished cognitive ability, relating to minimized GR mRNA in the hippocampus, minimized BDNF, heightened CRH mRNA in the hypothalamus, and a diminished quantity of glucocorticoid receptor binding sites within the frontal cortex and hippocampus. Such changes in the rodent infants persist throughout life, resulting in heightened stress reactivity, and relating to diminished negative feedback to stress hormones. Likewise, the frequency of licking and grooming of rodent pups by mothers, influences differences in cognitive ability, HPA response to stress, and social behavior of pups throughout life, independent of the pups' genetic disposition or prenatal environment and also correlating with alterations in gene expressivity and structure of the hippocampus. For comparison, in neonatal rhesus macaques, social deprivation corresponds with lower concentrations of oxytocin in cerebrospinal fluid than rhesus macaques that did not experience social deprivation during neonatal development.\nWhile rodent studies of gene expression predominately measure the consequences of depriving the animals of sensory experiences, a study has also been conducted measuring the consequences of enriching animal sensory experiences on prefrontal cortex development, via tactile stimulation by researchers for 45 minutes per day for the approximately first two weeks of life. What was discovered was that infants, who received additional tactile stimulation exhibited greater motor performance and spatial learning, in addition to enhanced cerebral cortex synaptic organization, in adulthood, than infants who did not receive additional tactile stimulation. These findings reinforce the significance of tactile stimulation in early stages of postnatal development and neurogenesis for rodent models. Because non-human animal studies typically concern either, the presence and absence of parents, or the presence and absence of tactile stimulation, the findings of animal studies on gene expression are likely more comparable to human cases of neglect, as opposed to physical or sexual abuse.\n\nA dinner to discuss the challenges and opportunities in the interdisciplinary field of social neuroscience at the Society for Neuroscience meeting (Chicago, November 2009) resulted in a series of meetings led by John Cacioppo and Jean Decety with social neuroscientists, psychologists, neuroscientists, psychiatrists and neurologists in Argentina, Australia, Chile, China, Colombia, Hong Kong, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and the United States. Social neuroscience was defined broadly as the interdisciplinary study of the neural, hormonal, cellular, and genetic mechanisms underlying the emergent structures that define social species. Thus, among the participants in these meetings were scientists who used a wide variety of methods in studies of animals as well as humans, and patients as well as normal participants. The consensus also emerged that a Society for Social Neuroscience should be established to give scientists from diverse disciplines and perspectives the opportunity to meet, communicate with, and benefit from the work of each other. The international, interdisciplinary Society for social neuroscience (http://S4SN.org) was launched at the conclusion of these consultations in Auckland, New Zealand on 20 January 2010, and the inaugural meeting for the Society was held on November 12, 2010, the day prior to the 2010 Society for Neuroscience meeting (San Diego, CA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47832136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47832136", "title": "Space Shots (trading cards)", "text": "Space Shots (trading cards)\n\nSpace Shots was a non-sports trading card series produced beginning in 1990 by Space Ventures Inc. of Houston, Texas. Three series of cards were produced from 1990 to 1992, while the last, fourth series (of the intended five) came in two different issues of special 3-D space cards in 1993.\n\nThe card collection was launched in 1990 by Ed White III, son of astronaut Ed White (II), who died in 1967. Space Ventures collected investment capital from several astronauts, including Michael Collins, Eugene Cernan, and Jim Lovell, to fund the project.\n\nPack-inserted entry blanks for a “$150,000 Space Trivia Challenge” enticed both young and adult collectors to read the card backs and answer 25 space flight history questions, with entry blanks being sent by mail to those interested. The first 100 people to submit correct answers to 100 trivia questions posed on the first four series of cards were to receive a $1,500 scholarship.\n\nThe original promo sheet for the first series featured an uncut card sheet of six different card images and featured the pre-printed signatures of Lovell, Cernan, and Pete Conrad.\n\nThe first collectors' edition of 25,000 sets of 110 cards, sold out in 10 months.\n\nThe promo card for the second 110-card series was an uncut six-card sheet signed by Lovell, Bruce McCandless, and cosmonaut Vladimir Dzhanibekov. The series of 100,000 sets was issued in 1991 and was sold for $18 in card shops and by mail.\n\nThe promo sheet for the third series, entitled the International Edition, featured a packet of nine cards handsigned by Lovell, Dzhanibekov, and Buzz Aldrin. Most of the astronauts and cosmonauts eventually left the project.\n\nA special edition set, the fourth released, was called \"Moon/Mars\". This series retailed for $30.\n\nThe cards were embraced by the National Education Association.\n\nThe fifth and final series was never produced. Originally, 25% of every series' profits were designated for the Astronaut Memorial Foundation to build the Center for Space Education at Kennedy Space Center, in exchange for guaranteeing a $160,000 loan. However, the proceeds were never forwarded despite a projected $400,000 being owed to the Foundation. The $150,000 in scholarships for the 100 trivia contest winners were also never awarded. \n\nSome astronauts refuse to sign cards from the Space Shots series.\n"}
{"id": "14720070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14720070", "title": "Swynfen will case", "text": "Swynfen will case\n\nThe Swynfen (or Swinfen) will case was a series of English trials over the will of Samuel Swynfen that ran from 1856 to 1864 and raised important questions of ethics in the legal profession.\n\nSamuel Swynfen of Swinfen Hall, Staffordshire died in 1854 and, in his will, left £60,000 (around £ in present-day terms) to his widowed daughter-in-law Patience Swynfen. But Samuel possessed another large estate that was not mentioned in his will. Patience claimed that too.\n\nHowever, Frederick Hay Swynfen, Samuel's nephew, also claimed the estate. Litigation followed with eminent barristers Sir Frederick Thesiger representing Patience and Sir Alexander Cockburn the nephew. Contrary to Patience's instructions, Thesiger negotiated a settlement with Cockburn and put it to the judge. Patience was furious and succeeded in having the agreement set aside and a new trial listed. Dismissing Thesiger, Patience instructed a young and little known barrister named Charles Rann Kennedy, promising to pay him £20,000 (around £ in present-day terms) if he succeeded in her cause.\n\nSpurred by the incentive and the fact that he was engaged in a sexual relationship with Patience, Kennedy won the estate. However, she went on to marry a Charles Broun and then to declare that she had no intention of paying Kennedy.\n\nKennedy sued and won, but his claim was overturned on appeal on the grounds that his contingency fee agreement under another name offended ancient prohibitions on champerty and maintenance. In the case of \"Kennedy v. Broun\", Sir William Erle CJ held that the relationship between client and barrister was not a contract. Patience now sued Thesiger over his original professional misconduct. Further, she alleged that Sir Cresswell Cresswell, the judge in the original trial, had induced Thesiger's agreement to a settlement by suggesting that he had formed an unfavourable opinion of Patience's case. Her claim was unsuccessful.\n\n"}
{"id": "24045191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24045191", "title": "Tamagotchi: Happiest Story in the Universe!", "text": "Tamagotchi: Happiest Story in the Universe!\n\nThe film is the second Tamagotchi feature film produced and the follow up to \"\". It is also a prequel to the 2009 Anime sequel of the same name.\n\nAn English dub of the film existed in the Philippines, although it was rather rare. The film was also rare in other countries. Madman Entertainment, who provided an English dub of Tamagotchi: The Movie, intended to dub this film in English as well, but the dub was cancelled for unknown reasons.\n\nAt Tamagotchi School, the Tamagotchi children wait for the flying library to arrive. While talking about the kind of books they would like to read, another young student adds a rude comment to Mametchi's dream. Chamametchi recognizes him as Kikitchi, a new student in her class. Mametchi then explains to Kikitchi that the flying library is a flying ship that contains magical books that children are magically transported into and made the main character when they read them. Just then, Kikitchi's sensitive hearing picks up the sound of the ship's horn. Although no one else can hear it, the ship appears after a minute. The Otogitchi Siblings, who take care of the library, bring the ship down, and let down a flight of stairs, which the Tamagotchi children eagerly climb up.\n\nDown in the library, the children eagerly grab various books and open them, which causes various objects to pop out. The Tamagotchi children then jump into different books, causing them to transport into the story. The title theme then plays as the Tamagotchi go on their various adventures inside their stories. Chamametchi flies on a magic carpet to a castle in the sky; Mametchi relaxes on a machine in the ocean, which he then goes into and flies away into space in; Memetchi goes to an elegant party in a castle and meets a prince, which she and Makiko fight over; Kuchipatchi eats endlessly in a land made entirely out of candy; and various other Tamagotchi children dance and fly in other lands of music and letters. The last person to be seen is Kikitchi, who sits on a leaf alone looking at the sky. Next to him, his scarf has been taken off, showing he has no interest in the story he is in.\n\nAfter the children exit their stories and are starting to leave the library, Kikitchi hears a small voice calling out for help. However, due to the fact that he can hear smaller sounds than others, no one else can hear it, and tell him he must be hearing things. As Kuchipatchi, Mametchi, Memetchi, and Chamametchi tell about what happened while they were in their stories, Makiko and Memetchi get into an argument over the prince that had been in their story. As they are walking, Kikitchi makes them fall by throwing banana peels in front of them. As he laughs, Memetchi asks him if he enjoyed his story. He responds that he didn't like it at all.\n\nMeanwhile, Mametchi has an idea for an invention, and he rushes home. After several failed attempts, he finally gets his experiment right, and he invites his friends over to watch him complete it. But after several events, the experiment goes wrong, and a small creature emerges. Mametchi explains that he did not expect his experiment to become and actual living thing, but that the creature can absorb the feelings of others and use it to make other people happy. Mametchi decides to call his new creature \"Hapihapitchi\".\n\nWhile the birth of Hapihapitchi is being celebrated, Kikitchi eats a large meal on his own. He is full after one bite, and turns on his TV. He sees an advertisement for Celebria, a newly completed super-shopping mall. Kikitchi's parents then appear on TV, explaining that they built Celebria as a place where all Tamagotchis could go to have fun. Kikitchi sadly turns off the TV, and watches fireworks from outside his window.\n\nHapihapitchi begins to use her power to make people happy. She attempts to use her power on Kikitchi, but Kikitchi runs away, yelling that forcing people to be happy is \"nonsense\". Over time, Mametchi begins to notice that Hapihapitchi is actually making people unhappy; they now depend on Hapihapitchi to make them happy when they are upset. Mametchi then tells Hapihapitchi not to use her powers on anyone until he can figure out what to do.\n\nAt school, the flying library comes again. Kikitchi, who is hiding in a corner, hears the small voice calling out for help again, and begins to search for the source. Hapihapitchi also senses the unhappiness that is connected with the voice, and she begins to search for the source, too. As Kikitchi, Mametchi, Memetchi, Kuchipatchi, Chamametchi, and Hapihapitchi run into each other, a book opens up at their feet, entitled \"The World's Happiest Story\". They enter the book, where they notice that, unlike the other magical books in the library, they don't become the main character. The story tells of a man named Happy who lived with his dog named Lucky. Because his name is \"Happy\", he is determined to become the happiest man in the world, so he sets off on a journey, leaving behind his home and his dog. He becomes rich and a hero, but he still isn't the happiest man in the world. The characters find Happy, but he states that he doesn't want their help. As the Tamagotchis follow Happy through the various pages of the story, they notice that the story loops; the end simply brings them back to the beginning. Kikitchi notices that Happy acts similar to how he acted, and he begins to feel bad. However, before the Tamagotchis can help Happy, the school bell rings, and they have to leave the library. Unknown to anyone else, Kikitchi leaves the Library, the book with him.\n\nBack at his house, Kikitchi remembers an event that occurred when he was younger. A group of younger Tamagotchis were talking about a festival that was to occur the next day, but Kikitchi hears a tree say that it will rain tomorrow. When he tries to tell the others, the children call him a liar and a horrible person. Unable to wait, Kikitchi enters the book he has taken home. As he does, however, a tornado of paper engulfs Celebria, and causes the Tamagotchi caught in the tornado to become two-dimensional. Mametchi's family sees the news report on TV, and Chamametchi and Mametchi instantly think of Kikitchi. The family then heads to Mame Laboratories to discuss the problem with other scientists.\n\nAt the laboratory, one of the scientists explains that the last page in Happy's story had been torn out, so that he is unable to complete his story. Over time, the book had become unstable, and Kikitchi entering the story caused it to become unstable enough to affect the real world. The only way to save the world was to have Otogitchi, the captain of the flying library, write a new ending with a magic crayon. Meanwhile, Papamametchi reluctantly allows Mametchi and his friends to enter the story to save Kikitchi.\n\nMametchi and his friends enter the book on the flying library ship. In the book, Kikitchi is talking with Happy, who is beginning to believe he will never be happy. The flying ship finally finds them, where Otogitchi explains to Happy that they have to write a new ending to the story. They attempt to write several different endings, but they all disappear, meaning that they aren't correct. When he begins to become discouraged, the other Tamagotchi begin to give him ideas of what makes them happy. Kikitchi's idea, which is when someone says \"hello\" to him during class, has a large impact on Happy, and he begins to get an idea. Unfortunately, the world inside the story begins to fall apart, and the magic crayon is accidentally dropped. Since Happy states that he can't leave the book with the other Tamagotchi, Hapihapitchi asks Mametchi if she can try to make Happy happy. Happy is surrounded with memories, and he finally decides how he wants his story to end. Kikitchi risked his life to get the magic crayon back, and he asks Happy what he wants the ending to be. Happy says that he wants to go back to his home as it was before he left. Otogitchi's sister draws a door, and Happy opens it; suddenly, the book stops disintegrating, and returns to normal. Kikitchi realizes that Lucky was the one calling out to him, and is happy that Happy is now happy.\n\nSuddenly, Hapihapitchi collapses in a field. Mametchi explains that without any happiness, Hapihapitchi would die. Hapihapitchi gets up and weakly sprinkles her last happiness over Kikitchi, stating that she promised she would make him happy. Kikitchi begins to cry, and Mametchi tells everyone that Hapihapitchi needs happiness to absorb, but no one can be happy while Hapihapitchi is about to die. Happy approaches Hapihapitchi, picks her up, and tells her that he is the happiest man in the world. Suddenly, Hapihapitchi's health is restored, and she springs back to life and Kikitchi stops crying but is still sad. The Tamagotchi wave goodbye to Happy and Lucky, and leave the book on the flying ship.\n\nBack in the real world, the citizens of Tamatown celebrate the return of the heroes. Kikitchi's parents comfort him, by promising to make more time for him from now on. Happily, Kikitchi introduces his parents to his new friends.\n\nThe end credits show Tamatown being cleaned up after the paper tornado, and the Tamagotchi children continuing to enjoy the magical story books. A picture inside the wall of Mametchi's home also shows a brief picture of Tanpopo, the main heroine from the first Tamagotchi film.\n"}
{"id": "4811617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4811617", "title": "Taunting", "text": "Taunting\n\nA taunt is a battle cry, sarcastic remark, gesture, or insult intended to demoralize the recipient, or to anger them and encourage reactionary behaviors without thinking. Taunting can exist as a form of social competition to gain control of the target's cultural capital (i.e. status). In sociological theory, the control of the three social capitals is used to produce an advantage in the social hierarchy as to enforce one's own position in relation to others. Taunting is committed by either directly, or indirectly encouraging others to taunt the target. The target may give a response in kind to maintain status, as in fighting words and trash-talk.\n\nTaunts are also a genre of folklore.\n\nThe act of taunting can be learned by observation and improvisation. It usually follows linear thought, correlating or building in some manner to the target of taunting. Things such as the victim's appearance, intelligence, mannerisms, education, background, past offences, etc. can otherwise be insulted. When used in this manner, the effectiveness of a taunt at provoking a response varies depending on how the specific insult relates to its victim (or their sense of self), to what level of offence they regard the taunt, and how well the victim can control their emotions when responding.\n\nIn the Eastern US and modern Britain the chant \"Nyah nyah nyah nyah nyah nyah\", sung to the tune of \"Bye, baby Bunting\" is insult among children. In the American South this is often used as \"Nanny nanny boo-boo\" and repeated with words such as \"You ca-an't catch me\". In Hebrew, the taunt is \"Na na, banana\" or \"Na-na-na banana\" (means the same as in English). In French, the taunt uses syllables often rendered \"Nananananère,\" and Swedish-speaking children use the phrase \"Du kan inte ta mig\" (\"You cannot catch me\"). In Croatia, children sing in that tune: \"Ulovi me, ulovi me, kupit ću ti novine. Novine su skupe, poljubi me u dupe.\", which means: \"Catch me, catch me, [if you do that] I'll buy you a newspaper. Newspapers are pricey, kiss my tushie.\"\n\nCertain movements of one's body are, in many cultures, interpreted as a taunt. These can be expressed through the eyes, hands, fingers, head and other areas of the body.\n\nA gesture in Japanese culture, made by pulling a lower eyelid down to expose the red underneath.\n\nA raised, clenched fist is used as a gesture of defiance by a number of groups. It is usually considered to be hostile, yet without any sexual, scatological, or notionally offensive connotations.\n\nThe crotch-grab is done almost exclusively by males. It is, as the name suggests, a grabbing (or one-handed cupping and lifting) of the penis and testicles - usually through clothing. In Italy the sign is by no means purely a taunt, being also an apotropaic gesture of considerable antiquity employed, since the days of Ancient Rome, to ward off the evil eye or bad luck and also to attract good luck. It is, in this context, an invocation of the benign powers of fertility embodied in the male genitalia and, as such, lies at the root of the magical intent expressed symbolically in the fascinum and probably also the cornicello. Despite recent prudish rulings by the Italian legal system, the (public) crotch-grab is still resorted to by more traditionally-minded Italian men as a means of deflecting the ill-luck threatened by objects or people related to death and burial and (more esoterically) the unlucky number 17 (said to be unlucky because it a) resembles a man hanging from a gibbet and b) because when written XVII in Roman numerals is an anagram of 'vixi' - 'I lived', a verb form considered unlucky because of its frequent occurrence in ancient Roman funerary inscriptions).\n\nThe cutthroat gesture is performed by drawing the hand, or a finger or two, across the throat. It represents slitting the throat with a knife, and means that the gesturer or someone else is metaphorically being killed. It is rarely if ever used literally to refer to death, though it is occasionally used as a theatrical threat (\"I'm going to kill you\"). The gesture earned a great deal of national notoriety in the NFL during the 1999 season in which several players did the cutthroat gesture.\n\nThe dickhead gesture is made by holding a hand to one's forehead, the thumb and fingers usually forming a \"C\" shape, and then moving the hand forward and backward in an arc. The image suggested is a large penis growing out of the forehead.\n\nA more insulting form is where the thumb and finger are brought closer together so the gap between them is smaller and more elongated with the hand moved in the same manner. The image suggests a small penis growing out of the forehead.\n\nThe finger gesture is a gesture consisting of a fist with the middle finger extended. It is universally understood as \"fuck you\" due to its resemblance to the penis. It is certainly thousands of years old, being referred to in Ancient Roman literature as the \"digitus infamis\" or \"digitus impudicus\". Performing this gesture is also called \"flipping the bird\" in countries where \"the finger\" is used. In other regions, \"flipping the bird\" refers to the raising of the middle and index finger with the back of the hand directed at the recipient. It can also mean \"Victor\" in some countries, which is not to be mistaken for the \"Peace\" gesture. The \"Peace\" gesture is done with the palm facing the recipient of the gesture. In Britain, this is also the case - however, if the palm faces inwards (towards the person doing the \"peace\" sign), it is an offensive gesture in Britain, though not considered quite as rude as to \"the finger\" (but still very rude and offensive).\n\nThe \"loser\" gesture used in some countries is performed by raising the index finger and thumb of one's right hand perpendicular to each other and then placing them on one's forehead with index finger pointing upward. So placed, the fingers form the letter \"L\" from the perspective of a viewer and signify the name-calling insult \"loser\" directed toward the person being spoken to or spoken about.\n\nDone by holding up the hand with the index, middle and pinky finger, implying the act of putting two fingers in a woman's vagina and one in her anus.\n\nOften sticking one's tongue out at another is seen as mocking the other. A variation of this is also known as blowing a raspberry. It can also be wagged in a manner suggesting cunnilingus which is usually seen as highly vulgar.\n\nThe turkey face gesture is when you take your hand and put your thumb on your nose, wriggle your head back and forth and do the same thing with the hand. Cocking a snook is an old British taunting gesture in which the thumb of one hand is on the nose and the extended fingers are wiggled.\n\nThe insulting version of the gesture (with the palm inwards) is often compared to the offensive gesture known as \"the finger\". The \"two-fingered salute\", as it is also known, is commonly performed by flicking the V upwards from wrist or elbow. The V sign, when the palm is facing toward the person giving the sign, has long been an insulting gesture in England, and later in the rest of the United Kingdom; its use is largely restricted to the UK, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand. It is frequently used to signify defiance (especially to authority), contempt or derision.\n\nThe wanker gesture is made with a loose fist (with all fingers forming a cylindrical shape), and shaken up and down (or sometimes, back and forth) at the wrist, suggesting masturbation.\nA picture of the young Tony Blair, later the British Prime Minister (1997–2007), using the wanker gesture became widely available (although copyrighted) in 2007.\n\nIn Monty Python's Monty Python and the Holy Grail the French Knight taunts King Arthur and his companions with a series of increasingly ludicrous insults, culminating in \"Your mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberries\".\n\nVersions of the Endemol quiz show 1 vs. 100 based on the United States version (Australia, and to an extent, France) are known for the contestants and mob taunting each other.\n\nSimilar game shows, such as Weakest Link, are built on taunting a defeated player.\n\nSome video games feature the ability to taunt an opponent. In the context of role-playing games, a \"taunt\" command is often used by the tank to draw the AI opponents' attention to the player's character, saving other more fragile characters from its attacks so that they can perform specialized roles. In a first-person shooter context or 1 vs 1 games, a \"taunt\" command is essentially a virtual incarnation of a verbal taunt, and may include either purpose-programmed sounds and gestures or a symbolic ritual insult that players have adopted to show dominance. In the context of wrestling or fighting games, a taunt may serve the purpose of building energy or stamina.\n\nIn games not featuring a dedicated \"taunt\" command, players have devised other ways, within the controls of the game, to taunt or harass opponents of other skill levels. In a racing game, for example, a player far in the lead might come to a stop before the finish line to watch their competitors begin to catch up, only to accelerate again and take the checkered flag when the opponents draw near. Multiplayer FPS games have given rise to the practice of corpse humping or tea bagging, which involves the \"crouch\" command present in a typical FPS's control scheme. In FPS games which allow hand-to-hand attacks, another common way of taunting opponents is to kill an opponent while one is not armed with a gun, through the use of some sort of melee attack such as a punch or knifing; \"Quake III Arena\" makes this form of \"taunting\" explicit by having the announcer loudly call out \"Humiliation!\" whenever a player is killed by another player's gauntlet.\n\nIn the online PC game sensation \"World of Warcraft\", the classes of Warrior and Druid have the ability named \"Taunt\" and \"Growl\" respectively and used to focus the attack of an enemy non playing character (NPC) onto the Warrior or Druid who have used this ability. These classes also have an ability which focuses the attacks of all creatures in an area, commonly referred to as Area of Effect taunt (AOE). The Warrior ability is called \"Challenging shout\" and the Druid ability is called \"Challenging roar\". The Paladin and Death Knight classes possess taunts as well. Taunting isn't limited to game skills; it exists also as an emote (by typing /taunt in the game's chat feature). This variant of taunting has also been featured in turn-based RPGs, such as \"\", in which tank characters can taunt to force all enemies to attack him/her, while having the health and/or defense to withstand all of such attacks so that allies can avoid every attack except area of effect ones for a limited number of turns.\n\nIn the \"Super Smash Bros.\" series, characters have a brief taunt that can be performed by pressing a button. Luigi's is the only taunt that damages the foe, except in Super Smash Bros Brawl, where Solid Snake also possesses a damaging taunt. Kirby's taunt removes his current \"disguise\". In \"Super Smash Bros. Brawl\", characters feature 3 different taunts each. If a Down Taunt is executed very quickly, Star Fox characters and Solid Snake can contact allies on their home stages (known as a Smash Taunt), while Samus Aran can remove her power suit if the Up and Down taunts are repeated very quickly.\n\nIn the online game Team Fortress 2, each character possesses a unique taunt depending on the weapon he is holding, an example of which is when the Demoman lifts his crotch armor to reveal a piece of paper with a smiley-face on it, shouting \"Ka-BOOM!\" Some taunts can kill opponents, and two can restore health. There are also special taunts, including some that require a partner to execute, that can be obtained as items.\n\nIn the \"Saints Row\" games, players can design their own character and choose from numerous taunts in order to make his/her enemies or pedestrians feel bad, thus engaging in a fist fight. This feature is also available in the second game, now that the character has the ability to speak in which he/she can trash-talk his/her pedestrians and enemy gangs nearby. Performing taunts will earn the player respect.\n\nIn \"MotorStorm\" game, drivers can perform taunts to other drivers in order to humiliate them. These can be performed by any vehicle the player derives, but so do other rivals. In \"\", the use of taunt has been expanded upon and these are done by performing the infamous \"the finger\" next to another driver. Other taunts can be performed; however, doing this can make the rival attack the player, thus causing the player to crash.\n\nIn some Pokémon video games, there is a Dark-type move called Taunt. Once it has been used, it only allows the other player to use moves that can inflict damage, instead of using moves that affect stats, status, weather, etc.\n\nIn The Secret of Monkey Island, the main character learns taunts and retorts in a process called insult sword fighting. The learned retorts are used to counter a second set of taunts later. The sequels feature several similar insult games.\n\nIn Heroes of Newerth, users who pre-purchased before the open beta began, can use the ability \"Taunt\" to possibly score a \"smackdown\" announcement. It happens when the taunting player lands the killing blow on the taunted target. However, if the taunted target kills the taunter, \"HUMILIATION\" announcement is displayed.\n\nIn Mirror's Edge, the main character can pull the V sign, if you execute a certain combination.\n\nIn \"Grand Theft Auto V\" and \"Grand Theft Auto Online\" the protagonists can pull the finger to the pedestrians when driving a vehicle while unarmed.\n\nIn the Dragon Ball fighting game , Taunt is a Super Skill used to force enemies to lock-on to the user turning the opponent's attention to the user. When performed the user places their hands on the sides of their hand and make faces while dancing from side-to-side.\n\n"}
{"id": "351052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351052", "title": "The Wuzzles", "text": "The Wuzzles\n\nThe Wuzzles is an American animated television series created for Saturday morning television, and was first broadcast on September 14, 1985 on CBS. An idea of Michael Eisner for his new Disney television animation studio, the premise is that the main characters are hybrids of two different animals. The original 13 episodes ran on CBS for their first run.\n\n\"The Wuzzles\" features a variety of short, rounded animal characters (each called a Wuzzle, which means to mix up). Each is a roughly even, and colorful, mix of two different animal species (as the theme song mentions, \"livin' with a split personality\"), and all the characters sport wings on their backs, although only Bumblelion and Butterbear are seemingly capable of flight. All of the Wuzzles live on the Isle of Wuz. Double species are not limited to the Wuzzles themselves. From the appleberries they eat to the telephonograph in the home, or a luxury home called a castlescraper, nearly everything on Wuz is mixed together in the same way the Wuzzles are. The characters in the show were marketed extensively. featured in children's books, as poseable figures and plush toys (similar to Care Bears), and in a board game.\n\nDisney premiered two animated series on the same day in the same time slot, 8:30 AM ET, in the United States, with the other being \"Disney's Adventures of the Gummi Bears\" on NBC, and both series were successful during their first seasons. However, \"The Wuzzles\" ended production after its initial run largely due to the sudden death of Bill Scott, the voice of Moosel. However, Scott was also the voice of Gruffi Gummi, Sir Tuxford, and Toadwart (aka Toadie) on \"Gummi Bears\" (which also saw the deaths of voice actors Bob Holt and Roger C. Carmel within 15 months of one another) and Corey Burton and Carmel (later Brian Cummings in 1987) took over those roles. CBS canceled the show, and ABC (later acquired by Disney in February 1996) picked it up and showed reruns during the 1986–1987 season; they aired it at 8:00 AM so the two Disney shows would not be in competition with one another.\n\nIt was a bigger success in the United Kingdom, where the pilot episode aired as a theatrical featurette in 1986 alongside a re-release of Disney's \"Bambi\". In the United Kingdom, \"The Wuzzles\" and \"Disney's Adventures of the Gummi Bears\" were originally screened on the same channel (ITV) in 1985/1986; therefore, both series enjoyed high popularity, and \"The Wuzzles\" was also repeated on the Children's BBC (now called CBBC) in 1987. Reruns of the show were aired on both The Disney Channel and Toon Disney. Songwriter Stephen Geyer performs the lead vocal and composed the theme song.\n\n\n\n\nThese characters appeared only as plush toys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2535944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2535944", "title": "Vitalis of Milan", "text": "Vitalis of Milan\n\nSaint Vitalis of Milan () was an early Christian martyr and saint.\n\nVitalis was a wealthy citizen of Milan, perhaps a soldier. He was married to Saint Valeria. They are supposed to have been the parents of the (perhaps legendary) Saints Gervasius and Protasius. According to legend, when he encouraged Saint Ursicinus of Ravenna to be steadfast at his execution, Vitalis was discovered to be a Christian. A judge named Paulinus ordered Vitalis to be racked and then buried alive.\n\nThe date of his martyrdom is uncertain: some sources say that he was a victim of Nero, others of Marcus Aurelius. He was martyred in Ravenna, but all else in the story is suspect. Some writers argue that he may have been a character in a work of fiction that was mistaken for history.\n\nThe feast of Saint Vitalis occurs on April 28. Churches are dedicated in honor of Saint Vitalis at Rome, Faenza, Rimini, Como, Ferrara, Venice, and Verona in Italy and at Jadera (now Zadar) in Dalmatia (now Croatia), but by far the most famous church bearing his name is the octagonal Basilica of San Vitale at Ravenna, a masterpiece of Byzantine art, erected on the purported site of his martyrdom. He is also the patron saint of Granarolo and Marittima in Italy, as well as of Thibodaux, Louisiana, in the United States.\n\nThe Cebu Metropolitan Cathedral recognizes Saint Vitalis as its patron. A Mass to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Cebu's elevation to an archdiocese and the feast day of Vitalis was held on 28 April 2009, with the Archbishop of Cebu Cardinal Ricardo Vidal presiding.\n\nA statue of Vitalis is one those on the colonnade of St. Peter's Basilica.\n\n\n"}
