{"id": "178894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178894", "title": "Abu Hamza al-Masri", "text": "Abu Hamza al-Masri\n\nMustafa Kamel Mustafa (; born 15 April 1958), also known as Abu Hamza al-Masri (; , – literally, the Egyptian father of Hamza), the Hook Hand or simply Abu Hamza, is an Egyptian cleric who was the imam of Finsbury Park Mosque in London, England, where he preached Islamic fundamentalism and militant Islamism.\n\nIn 2004, Hamza was arrested by British police after the United States requested he be extradited to face charges. He was later charged by British authorities with sixteen offences for inciting violence and racial hatred. In 2006, a British court found him guilty of inciting violence, and sentenced him to seven years' imprisonment. On 5 October 2012, after an eight-year legal battle, he was extradited from the UK to the United States to face terrorism charges and on 14 April 2014 his trial began in New York. On 19 May 2014, Hamza was found guilty of eleven terrorism charges by a federal jury in Manhattan. On 9 January 2015, he was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.\n\nHamza was born in Alexandria, Egypt, as Mustafa Kamel Mustafa in 1958, the son of a middle-class army officer. In 1979, he entered Britain on a student visa.\n\nHis initial reaction to life in Britain was to describe it as \"a paradise, where you could do anything you wanted.\" He studied civil engineering at Brighton Polytechnic. Prior to his conversion to Islamism in Malta, 1999, Hamza was known as a \"gentle giant\" and a \"womaniser\". Hamza gained employment as a bouncer in the strip bars of Soho in the under his original name from 1980 until 1983, when club baron Jean Agius was arrested and charged for conspiring to be a pimp. Agius alleges that Hamza may have also co-owned a club during this time.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Hamza lived in Bosnia under another name, and fought alongside Bosniaks against Serbs and Croats during the Bosnian War.\n\nHamza, who has one eye and no hands, once claimed he lost them fighting Soviet forces in Afghanistan. CNN reported they were \"injuries he says he sustained while tackling a landmine in Afghanistan.\" Among several accounts that take issue with Hamza's story, BBC security correspondent Gordon Corera's introduction to Omar Nasiri's memoir \"Inside the Jihad: My Life with Al Qaeda\" says Hamza \"boosted his credibility\" with rumours he sustained the injuries fighting \"jihad\"; also that Nasiri knew they resulted from \"an accident during experiments in a training camp\", and Hamza asked Nasiri \"to keep this secret in order to avoid undermining his reputation.\" During his trial in the United States, Hamza stated that his injuries occurred whilst working with explosives with the Pakistani military in Lahore. The UK tabloid press have nicknamed him \"Hook\" in allusion to the fictional pirate Captain Hook.\n\nOn 16 May 1980, Hamza married British citizen Valerie Fleming, a Roman Catholic convert to Islam, and soon after they had a son, Mohammed Mustafa Kamel born in October 1981. In 1984, their relationship came under increasing strain and later in that year Hamza took three-year-old Mohammed with him to Egypt, effectively breaking contact with Valerie. Eventually they divorced and he married Najat Mustafa, with whom he has seven children: five sons followed by two daughters. Hamza's stepdaughter, Donna Traverso, told \"The Times\" in 2006 that she was convinced Hamza had duped her mother into marrying him in order to gain the right to stay in the UK (see \"Arrests, charges and imprisonment\" below).\n\nIn 1999, Hamza's son Mohammed, then 17 years old, was arrested in Yemen with Hamza's stepson Mohssin Ghalain and eight other men. All were tried and convicted of planning a terrorist bombing campaign that the prosecution alleged Hamza had sent the men to carry out. Mohammed and Mohssin received prison sentences of three and seven years respectively.\n\nMohammed, Mohssin, and Hamza's oldest son with Najat, Hamza Mustafa Kamel, were convicted of fraud by a London court in 2009, and sentenced to prison terms. Following his release Hamza, referred to as Tito Ibn Sheikh in court proceedings, was given a 12-year sentence after being convicted of 'orchestrating' a violent kidnapping in 2014.\n\nHamza's third son with Najat, Yasser Kamel, was sentenced to 12 months in youth detention in 2010, for violent disorder at anti-Israel protests in 2009. In 2012, Hamza's second youngest son, Imran Mustafa Kamel, was convicted of armed robbery and illegal possession of a firearm with intent to commit an offence and was sentenced to 11 years' imprisonment. In 2013, the \"Evening Standard\" reported that Hamza's second oldest son with Najat, Uthman Mustafa Kamal, delivered sermons at An-Noor mosque in Acton, west London, that were allegedly 'in support of holy war', videos of which were uploaded online but have since been taken down. In 2017, Hamza's youngest son, Sufiyan Mustafa Kamel, was stripped of his UK passport after travelling to Syria in 2013 to fight alongside rebel groups against Bashar al-Assad.\n\nHamza's Moroccan daughter-in-law was jailed for attempting to smuggle a mobile phone sim card when visiting him in Belmarsh prison in 2012. She is now facing deportation but because she is the sole carer of her son, a British national, the European Court of Justice's advocate general has ruled she cannot automatically be deported despite her criminality unless she is deemed to pose a 'serious' threat to society.\n\nHamza was the imam of Finsbury Park Mosque from 1997, and a leader of the Supporters of Sharia, a group that believed in a strict interpretation of Islamic law. On 14 September 1999, he sent an article to \"Al-Hayat\", one of the largest pan-Arab newspapers, supporting the Russian apartment bombings, claiming that while \"in a war, no one targets women and children in a war\", these attacks were necessary as \"a Muslim revenge for the Russian criminal policies in Chechnya\". In 2003, he addressed a rally in central London called by the Islamic al-Muhajiroun, where members spoke of their support for Islamist goals such as the creation of a new Islamic caliphate and replacing the Western-backed Middle Eastern regimes. On 4 February 2003 (after being suspended since April 2002), Hamza was dismissed from his position at the Finsbury Park Mosque by the Charity Commission, the government department that regulates charities in England and Wales. After his exclusion from the mosque, he preached outside the gates until May 2004, when he was arrested at the start of US extradition proceedings against him (see below).\n\nHamza publicly expressed support for Islamist goals such as creating a caliphate, and for Osama bin Laden. He wrote a paper entitled \"El Ansar\" (\"The Victor\") in which he expressed support for the actions of the Armed Islamic Group (GIA) in Algeria, but he later rejected them when they started killing civilians. In one sermon relating to the necessity of Jihad, he said: \"Allah likes those who believe in Him who kill those who do not believe in Him. Allah likes that. So if you Muslims don't like that because you hate the blood, there is something wrong with you.\" He allegedly associated with Abdullah el-Faisal, a Jamaican Muslim convert cleric who preached in the UK until he was imprisoned for urging his followers to murder Jews, Hindus, Christians and Americans, subsequently being deported to Jamaica in 2007.\n\nHamza was arrested in December 1980 during a raid on a Soho strip club for overstaying his tourist visa, which allowed him to stay in the UK for one month. He pleaded guilty to overstay but was allowed to remain in the UK as he was married to a British citizen, Valerie Fleming.\n\nOn 26 August 2004, Hamza was arrested by British police under section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000, which covers the instigation of acts of terrorism. Charges against him were dropped on 31 August 2004, but he was kept in jail whilst a US extradition case was developed and British authorities drew up further criminal charges of their own. Almost two months later, on 19 October 2004, Hamza was charged with fifteen offences under the provisions of various British statutes, including encouraging the killing of non-Muslims, and intent to stir up racial hatred. The trial commenced on 5 July 2005, but was adjourned, and not resumed until 9 January 2006. On 7 February 2006, he was found guilty on eleven charges and not guilty on four:\n\nIn sentencing, Mr Justice Hughes said Hamza had \"helped to create an atmosphere in which to kill has become regarded by some as not only a legitimate course but a moral and religious duty in pursuit of perceived justice.\" Abu Hamza was sentenced to seven years' imprisonment.\n\nIn September 2012, Frank Gardner revealed that Queen Elizabeth II had been upset some years earlier that Abu Hamza al-Masri could not be arrested. The BBC apologised later that day for the revelation.\n\nOn 18 January 2007, Lord Justice Hughes made an order for the recovery of the full costs of the court-appointed defence of the race-hate charges, estimated in excess of £1 million. This judgement was based on his view that \"the story I have been told today (by Abu Hamza) is simply not true\" that he [Abu Hamza] had no share in a £220,000 house in Greenford, west London. Hamza had claimed it belonged to his sister. The court also found that Abu Hamza was contributing £9000 a year for private education for his children.\n\nOn 27 May 2004, Hamza was detained on remand by British authorities and appeared before magistrates at the start of a process to try to extradite him to the United States. Yemen also requested his extradition. The United States wanted Hamza to stand trial for eleven counts relating to the taking of sixteen hostages in Yemen in 1998, advocating jihad in Afghanistan in 2001, supporting James Ujaama in an alleged attempt to establish a \"terrorist training camp\" in late 1999 and early 2000 near Bly, Oregon, and of providing aid to al-Qaeda. Ujaama is a US citizen who had met Abu Hamza in England in 1999 and was indicted in the US for providing aid to al-Qaeda, attempting to establish a terrorist training camp, and for running a website advocating global jihad. Abu Hamza was in Britain throughout the relevant period.\n\nHamza could not face the death penalty if extradited to the United States because the UK is a signatory to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). On 15 November 2007, British courts gave permission for Hamza's extradition to the US. Abu Hamza appealed against this decision to the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR). In the meantime, Hamza was kept in prison after the completion of his sentence.\n\nOn 8 July 2010, the ECtHR temporarily blocked Hamza's extradition to the United States to face terrorism charges until the court was satisfied that he would not be treated inhumanely. The court based its judgement on ECHR, which applies to British law. It is an absolute prohibition for a signatory to the ECHR to remove anyone to a place where they would be subject to inhumane or degrading treatment. In past cases, the ECtHR has prevented the UK from deporting suspected foreign terrorists to places where they might be tortured. In Hamza's case, this has been extended to refusing extradition to a country where he might be jailed for life, and where the prison regime is judged too harsh. The court said there should be further legal argument on whether life without parole would be a breach of human rights. The court asked for fresh submissions on whether Hamza, and other prisoners awaiting extradition, would face inhumane treatment in the US if they were sent there to stand trial.\n\nOn 24 September 2012, the court said he could be extradited to the US to face terrorism charges. After considering all evidence, statements by officials at ADX Florence, the court held that \"conditions at ADX would not amount to ill-treatment\" and also stated that \"not all inmates convicted of international terrorism were housed at ADX and, even if they were, sufficient procedural safeguards were in place, such as holding a hearing before deciding on such a transfer\" and that \"if the transfer process had been unsatisfactory, there was the possibility of bringing a claim to both the Federal Bureau of Prisons' administrative remedy programme and the US federal courts\", referring to the Administrative Remedy Program. On 26 September 2012, a High Court judge halted the extradition of Hamza to the US on terror charges after the cleric launched a last-ditch appeal. On 5 October 2012, the High Court granted the UK's government's request to extradite Hamza to the US. The removal process took place that same evening, when Hamza was taken from Long Lartin jail to RAF Mildenhall in Suffolk, where he was placed into the hands of the US Marshals.\n\nAbu Hamza arrived in the US on the morning of 6 October 2012 to face eleven charges relating to hostage taking, conspiracy to establish a militant training camp and calling for holy war in Afghanistan. He appeared in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on 6 October and was then taken into custody. He appeared in court again on 9 October and pleaded not guilty to eleven charges.\n\nOn 14 April 2014, his trial opened with jury selection. His lawyer, Joshua Dratel, claimed Abu Hamza cooperated with MI5 and the police to help interact with the British Muslim community. On 19 May 2014, he was found guilty of the terror charges. British Home Secretary Theresa May said that she was \"pleased\" that Abu Hamza had \"finally faced justice\". On 9 January 2015, Hamza was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole, and the entire sentence would be served at ADX Florence in Colorado. In U.S. confinement, his hook devices were confiscated and replaced with a prosthetic spork.\n\n"}
{"id": "454322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454322", "title": "Anonymous P2P", "text": "Anonymous P2P\n\nAn anonymous P2P communication system is a peer-to-peer distributed application in which the nodes, which are used to share resources, or participants are anonymous or pseudonymous. Anonymity of participants is usually achieved by special routing overlay networks that hide the physical location of each node from other participants.\n\nInterest in anonymous P2P systems has increased in recent years for many reasons, ranging from the desire to share files without revealing one's network identity and risking litigation to distrust in governments, concerns over mass surveillance and data retention, and lawsuits against bloggers.\n\nThere are many reasons to use anonymous P2P technology; most of them are generic to all forms of online anonymity.\n\nP2P users who desire anonymity usually do so as they do not wish to be identified as a publisher (sender), or reader (receiver), of information. Common reasons include:\n\nA particularly open view on legal and illegal content is given in The Philosophy Behind Freenet.\n\nGovernments are also interested in anonymous P2P technology. The United States Navy funded the original onion routing research that led to the development of the Tor network, which was later funded by the Electronic Frontier Foundation and is now developed by the non-profit organization The Tor Project, Inc.\n\nWhile anonymous P2P systems may support the protection of unpopular speech, they may also protect illegal activities, such as fraud, libel, the exchange of illegal pornography, the unauthorized copying of copyrighted works, or the planning of criminal activities. Critics of anonymous P2P systems hold that these disadvantages outweigh the advantages offered by such systems, and that other communication channels are already sufficient for unpopular speech.\n\nSome proponents of anonymous P2P systems believe that all restrictions on free speech serve authoritarian interests. Others argue that information itself is ethically neutral, and that it is the people acting upon the information that can be good or evil. Perceptions of good and evil can also change (see moral panic); for example, if anonymous peer-to-peer networks had existed in the 1950s or 1960s, they might have been targeted for carrying information about civil rights or anarchism.\n\nEasily accessible anonymous P2P networks are seen by some as a democratization of encryption technology, giving the general populace access to secure communications channels already used by governments. Supporters of this view, such as Phil Zimmermann, argue that anti-surveillance technologies help to equalize power between governments and their people, which is the actual reason for banning them. John Pilger opines that monitoring of the populace helps to contain threats to the \"consensual view of established authority\" or threats to the continuity of power structures and privilege.\n\nSome claim that true freedom of speech, especially on controversial subjects, is difficult or impossible unless individuals can speak anonymously. If anonymity is not possible, one could be subjected to threats or reprisals for voicing an unpopular view. This is one reason why voting is done by secret ballot in many democracies. Controversial information which a party wants to keep hidden, such as details about corruption issues, is often published or leaked anonymously.\n\nAnonymous blogging is one widespread use of anonymous networks. While anonymous blogging is possible on the non-anonymous internet to some degree too, a provider hosting the blog in question might be forced to disclose the blogger's IP address (as when Google revealed an anonymous blogger's identity). Anonymous networks provide a better degree of anonymity. Flogs (anonymous blogs) in Freenet, Syndie and other blogging tools in I2P and Osiris sps are some examples of anonymous blogging technologies.\n\nOne argument for anonymous blogging is a delicate nature of work situation. Sometimes a blogger writing under their real name faces a choice between either staying silent or causing a harm to themselves, their colleagues or the company they work for.\n\nAnother reason is risk of lawsuits. Some bloggers have faced multimillion-dollar lawsuits (although they were later dropped completely); anonymous blogging provides protection against such risks.\n\nOn the non-anonymous Internet, a domain name like \"example.com\" is a key to accessing information. The censorship of the Wikileaks website shows that domain names are extremely vulnerable to censorship. Some domain registrars have suspended customers' domain names even in the absence of a court order.\n\nFor the affected customer, blocking of a domain name is a far bigger problem than a registrar refusing to provide a service; typically, the registrar keeps full control of the domain names in question. In the case of a European travel agency, more than 80 .com websites were shut down without any court process and held by the registrar since then. The travel agency had to rebuild the sites under the .net top-level domain instead.\n\nOn the other hand, anonymous networks do not rely on domain name registrars. For example, Freenet, I2P and Tor hidden services implement censorship-resistant URLs based on public-key cryptography: only a person having the correct private key can update the URL or take it down.\n\nAnonymous P2P also has value in normal daily communication. When communication is anonymous, the decision to reveal the identities of the communicating parties is left up to the parties involved and is not available to a third party. Often there is no need or desire by the communicating parties to reveal their identities. As a matter of personal freedom, many people do not want processes in place by default which supply unnecessary data. In some cases, such data could be compiled into histories of their activities.\n\nFor example, most current phone systems transmit caller ID information by default to the called party (although this can be disabled either for a single call or for all calls). If a person calls to make an inquiry about a product or the time of a movie, the party called has a record of the calling phone number, and may be able to obtain the name, address and other information about the caller. This information is not available about someone who walks into a store and makes a similar inquiry.\n\nOnline surveillance, such as recording and retaining details of web and e-mail traffic, may have effects on lawful activities. People may be deterred from accessing or communicating legal information because they know of possible surveillance and believe that such communication may be seen as suspicious. According to law professor Daniel J. Solove, such effects \"harm society because, among other things, they reduce the range of viewpoints being expressed and the degree of freedom with which to engage in political activity.\"\n\nMost countries ban or censor the publication of certain books and movies, and certain types of content. Other material is legal to possess but not to distribute; for example, copyright and software patent laws may forbid its distribution. These laws are difficult or impossible to enforce in anonymous P2P networks.\n\nWith anonymous money, it becomes possible to arrange anonymous markets where one can buy and sell just about anything anonymously. Anonymous money could be used to avoid tax collection. However, any transfer of physical goods between two parties could compromise anonymity.\n\nSome argue that conventional cash provides a similar kind of anonymity, and that existing laws are adequate to combat crimes like tax evasion that might result from the use of anonymous cash, whether online or offline.\n\nSome of the networks commonly referred to as \"anonymous P2P\" are truly anonymous, in the sense that network nodes carry no identifiers. Others are actually pseudonymous: instead of being identified by their IP addresses, nodes are identified by pseudonyms such as cryptographic keys. For example, each node in the MUTE network has an overlay address that is derived from its public key. This overlay address functions as a pseudonym for the node, allowing messages to be addressed to it. In Freenet, on the other hand, messages are routed using keys that identify specific pieces of data rather than specific nodes; the nodes themselves are anonymous.\n\nThe term \"anonymous\" is used to describe both kinds of network because it is difficult—if not impossible—to determine whether a node that sends a message originated the message or is simply forwarding it on behalf of another node. Every node in an anonymous P2P network acts as a universal sender and universal receiver to maintain anonymity. If a node was only a receiver and did not send, then neighbouring nodes would know that the information it was requesting was for itself only, removing any plausible deniability that it was the recipient (and consumer) of the information. Thus, in order to remain anonymous, nodes must ferry information for others on the network.\n\nOriginally, anonymous networks were operated by small and friendly communities of developers. As interest in anonymous P2P increased and the user base grew, malicious users inevitably appeared and tried different attacks. This is similar to the Internet, where widespread use has been followed by waves of spam and distributed DoS (Denial of Service) attacks. Such attacks may require different solutions in anonymous networks. For example, blacklisting of originator network addresses does not work because anonymous networks conceal this information. These networks are more vulnerable to DoS attacks as well due to the smaller bandwidth, as has been shown in examples on the Tor network.\n\nA conspiracy to attack an anonymous network could be considered criminal computer hacking, though the nature of the network makes this impossible to prosecute without compromising the anonymity of data in the network.\n\nLike conventional P2P networks, anonymous P2P networks can implement either opennet or darknet (often named friend-to-friend) network type. This describes how a node on the network selects peer nodes:\n\n\nSome networks like Freenet support both network types simultaneously (a node can have some manually added darknet peer nodes and some automatically selected opennet peers) .\n\nIn a friend-to-friend (or F2F) network, users only make direct connections with people they know. Many F2F networks support indirect anonymous or pseudonymous communication between users who do not know or trust one another. For example, a node in a friend-to-friend overlay can automatically forward a file (or a request for a file) anonymously between two \"friends\", without telling either of them the other's name or IP address. These \"friends\" can in turn forward the same file (or request) to their own \"friends\", and so on. Users in a friend-to-friend network cannot find out who else is participating beyond their own circle of friends, so F2F networks can grow in size without compromising their users' anonymity.\n\nSome friend-to-friend networks allow the user to control what kind of files can be exchanged with \"friends\" within the node, in order to stop them from exchanging files that user disapproves of.\n\nAdvantages and disadvantages of opennet compared to darknet are disputed, see friend-to-friend article for summary.\n\n\n\n\nPrivate P2P networks are P2P networks that only allow some mutually trusted computers to share files. This can be achieved by using a central server or hub to authenticate clients, in which case the functionality is similar to a private FTP server, but with files transferred directly between the clients. Alternatively, users can exchange passwords or keys with their friends to form a decentralized network.\n\nFriend-to-friend networks are P2P networks that allows users only to make direct connections with people they know. Passwords or digital signatures can be used for authentication.\n\nExamples include :\n\nThe following networks only exist as design or are in development\n\n\nIt is possible to implement anonymous P2P on a wireless mesh network; unlike fixed Internet connections, users don't need to sign up with an ISP to participate in such a network, and are only identifiable through their hardware.\n\nProtocols for wireless mesh networks are Optimized Link State Routing Protocol (OLSR) and the follow-up protocol B.A.T.M.A.N., which is designed for decentralized auto-IP assignment. See also Netsukuku.\n\nEven if a government were to outlaw the use of wireless P2P software, it would be difficult to enforce such a ban without a considerable infringement of personal freedoms. Alternatively, the government could outlaw the purchase of the wireless hardware itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40707315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40707315", "title": "Appeal in South African law", "text": "Appeal in South African law\n\nThere are two main types of appeal in South African law:\n\n\nThe latter falls squarely within the province of administrative law. These internal or domestic remedies are an important adjunct to judicial review, which is a type of external check on the administration, but there can be a blurring of these internal and external safeguards, in that courts of law may be and sometimes are entrusted with the merits in their system. While administrative appeals normally lie from one administrative agency to another, they may lie to specialized courts of law and even to ordinary courts of law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986039", "title": "Blue Eyed Six", "text": "Blue Eyed Six\n\nThe Blue Eyed Six were a group of six men, all of them coincidentally blue-eyed, who were arrested and indicted on first degree murder charges in Lebanon County, Pennsylvania, in 1879.\n\nThe Six were Charles Drews, Frank Stichler, Henry F. Wise, Josiah Hummel, Israel Brandt and George Zechman. This group of friends and unsavory business associates conspired to murder their neighbor, Joseph Raber, for an insurance pay-off. Raber, age 65, lived in poverty with his housekeeper in a charcoal burner's hut in the Blue Mountain area of northern Lebanon County. Raber had no steady employment and depended mainly on the charity of his equally impoverished neighbors.\n\nIn early July 1878, four of the conspirators met at Brandt's hotel at St. Joseph Spring and agreed to insure Raber for a total of $8,000. The men told the insurance agent that they had agreed to take care of Raber for the rest of his life and wanted the policy to cover his eventual burial expenses. Several assessment-type life insurance policies were sold on Joseph Raber, with his cooperation, with the men named as the beneficiaries.\n\nLater that year they enlisted two other men to drown Raber in Indiantown Creek. Without any evidence to the contrary, the coroner ruled the death accidental. Although the local citizenry suspected foul play, it wasn't until two months later, when Drews' son-in-law Joseph Peters reported to the constable that he was an eye-witness to the murder, that the six men were arrested and held over for trial.\n\nIn a highly unusual move, the Six were tried together. Due to this and, perhaps, to the fanciful nickname that the conspirators were given by the newspapers, the trial gained more than its share of attention. Reporters from throughout the east coast descended on the city of Lebanon, the county seat of Lebanon County, and the story was carried worldwide. The trial began on 18 April. The Commonwealth's main witness was Drews' son-in-law, but he was only one of thirty-six witnesses called by the prosecution.\n\nThe defense called twenty-two witnesses. The witnesses on both sides were mainly friends, neighbors, and family members who contradicted each other at every turn. It became evident that there were many people who knew of, or suspected, the plot before and after Raber's death, but who did not come forward for fear of mortal retaliation. At 3:30 p.m. on 24 April 1879, the fate of the Blue Eyed Six was left in the hands of the twelve men of the jury.\n\nThe wait was not long. Five hours later the courthouse bell rang out, announcing that they had reached their verdicts. The jury returned verdicts of guilty of first degree murder for all six of the defendants. Defense requested that the jury be polled, and so the word \"Guilty\" was uttered seventy-two times, once for each defendant from each juror.\n\nThe local newspaper noted that it was the first time in the recorded history of common law of the United States and England that six people were convicted of murder on a single indictment. On appeal, the judge awarded Zechman a new trial, based on the lack of direct evidence presented by the Commonwealth against him personally. He was acquitted in his second trial on essentially the same evidence. The other five defendants were sentenced to death by hanging.\n\nDrews and Stichler, who had committed the crime, were hanged first. After all other appeals were exhausted, the accomplices Wise, Hummel, and Brandt were hanged the following year. The acquitted Zechman died of natural causes within the decade. Apart from the actual murder trial, the whole proceeding turned out to be an indictment of the murky business of assessment life insurance, which led to major changes in insurance law, particularly with regard to the practice of insuring people in whom one had no legal interest.\n\nThe Blue Eyed Six are sometimes reported to have been hanged and to be buried in the cemetery at Moonshine United Zion Church (Moonshine is the name of the family who donated the land the church and cemetery occupy) near the village of Green Point at Indiantown Gap, near the site of the murder. In actuality, the hangings all took place at the county prison in Lebanon. Although Joseph Raber, the victim, is buried at Moonshine Church, the six conspirators were all buried separately by their families elsewhere in the county.\n\nBrandt and Drews are buried side by side in the veteran's section of Mt. Lebanon Cemetery in Lebanon. Hummel and Zechman are buried at Sattazahn Lutheran Church cemetery in Union Township, Lebanon County. Wise is buried at Evangelical United Brethren Church cemetery in the village of Green Point, Union Township, Lebanon County. Stichler is buried in the family plot on McLean Road, now within the bounds of Ft. Indiantown Gap.\n\nHummel was hanged May 13, 1880, along with Wise and Brandt. Zechman was acquitted and therefore escaped hanging. He was released from prison and died in 1887.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27572542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27572542", "title": "Busted by the Feds", "text": "Busted by the Feds\n\nBusted By The Feds: A Manual For Defendants Facing Federal Prosecution, by Larry Fassler, is a 2006 book on the U.S. federal justice system, intended as a manual for defendants facing charges. Fassler claims he wrote the book after \"two years working with inmates at the federal prison in Phoenix, Arizona helping with appeals and post-conviction motions.\" In 2008, Fassler himself was accused by federal authorities of participating in a drug ring that moved large shipments of cannabis from Arizona to Northeast Ohio. Fassler died while incarcerated at Fort Worth FCI.\n\n\"Busted by the Feds\" is not to be confused with Agent Steal's \"Everything a Hacker Needs to Know About Getting Busted by the Feds\", a document intended to help computer hackers understand the legal system.\n"}
{"id": "39422314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39422314", "title": "Carwalking", "text": "Carwalking\n\nCarwalking is the act of stepping onto and walking across a stationary car. Depending on the technique and equipment used, carwalking can lead to damage of private property. Carwalking is a protest against the negative impacts of high motorization rates in urban areas. It often is a response to cars being parked illegally in areas exclusively allocated to pedestrians.\n\nThe most famous carwalker was Michael Hartmann who performed the act in Munich, Germany, in the 1980s. The peak of automobile friendly policies was around the seventies and the eighties in the western world, and such high number of motor vehicles in urban areas had as consequence a large number of cars illegally parked on side-walks and other pedestrian-reserved areas. Hartmann, in his book which describes his actions, states that once in 1988 he was walking with his girlfriend and due to many cars parked on the side-walk, they had to continuously zigzag between the cars so he decided to walk straightforward above the cars.\n\nAn initiative in Kings Heath (Birmingham) (Twitter: @pavements4ppl) distributes poster that warn drivers their cars will be \"bonneted\" if parked on pavement obstructing pedestrians.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "3226188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3226188", "title": "Codex Holmiensis", "text": "Codex Holmiensis\n\nCodex Holmiensis C 37 contains the oldest manuscript of the Danish \"Code of Jutland\" (), a civil code enacted under Valdemar II of Denmark. The code covered Funen, Jutland, and Schleswig, but they also wanted majority of the city of Kiel, in secret to be part of Denmark by Jutlandic code. Prior to the adoption of the \"Jutlandic\", Zealandic and the Scanian laws, there had been no uniformity of laws throughout settlements in Denmark. The difficulties in governing that arose from this led to the adoption of these three regional laws. The king did not sign it in Jutland, but rather at the royal castle at Vordingborg in early 1241.\n\nThe Code was succeeded by Christian V's Danish Code of 1683; however in certain parts of Schleswig parts of the Code were used until the arrival of Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch in 1900.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "83003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83003", "title": "Conscientious objector", "text": "Conscientious objector\n\nA conscientious objector is an \"individual who has claimed the right to refuse to perform military service\" on the grounds of freedom of thought, conscience, or religion.\n\nIn some countries, conscientious objectors are assigned to an alternative civilian service as a substitute for conscription or military service. Some conscientious objectors consider themselves pacifist, non-interventionist, non-resistant, non-aggressionist, anti-imperialist or antimilitarist.\n\nOn March 8, 1995, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/83 stated that \"persons performing military service should not be excluded from the right to have conscientious objections to military service.\" This was re-affirmed in 1998, when resolution 1998/77 recognized that \"persons [already] performing military service may \"develop\" conscientious objections.\" A number of organizations around the world celebrate the principle on May 15 as International Conscientious Objection Day. The term has also been extended to objecting to working for the military–industrial complex due to a crisis of conscience.\n\nMany conscientious objectors have been executed, imprisoned, or otherwise penalized when their beliefs led to actions conflicting with their society's legal system or government. The legal definition and status of conscientious objection has varied over the years and from nation to nation. Religious beliefs were a starting point in many nations for legally granting conscientious objector status.\n\nThe first recorded conscientious objector, Maximilianus, was conscripted into the Roman army in the year 295, but \"told the Proconsul in Numidia that because of his religious convictions he could not serve in the military.\" He was executed for this, and was later canonized as Saint Maximilian.\n\nAn early recognition of conscientious objection was granted by William the Silent to the Dutch Mennonites in 1575. They could refuse military service in exchange for a monetary payment.\n\nFormal legislation to exempt objectors from fighting was first granted in mid-18th century Great Britain following problems with attempting to force Quakers into military service. In 1757, when the first attempt was made to establish a British Militia as a professional national military reserve, a clause in the Militia Ballot Act allowed Quakers exemption from military service.\n\nIn the United States, conscientious objection was permitted from the country's founding, although regulation was left to individual states prior to the introduction of conscription.\n\nIn 1948, the issue of the right to \"conscience\" was dealt with by the United Nations General Assembly in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It reads:\n\nThe proclamation was ratified during the General Assembly on 10 December 1948 by a vote of 48 in favour, 0 against, with 8 abstentions.\n\nIn 1974, the Assistant Secretary-General of the United Nations, Sean MacBride said, in his Nobel Lecture, \"To the rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights one more might, with relevance, be added. It is ' The Right to Refuse to Kill.'\"\n\nIn 1976, the United Nations treaty the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights entered into force. It was based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and was originally created in 1966. Nations that have signed this treaty are bound by it. Its Article 18 begins: \"Everyone shall have the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. ...\"\n\nHowever, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights left the issue of conscientious objection inexplicit, as we see in this quote from War Resisters International: \"Article 18 of the Covenant does put some limits on the right [to freedom of thought, conscience and religion], stating that [its] manifestations must not infringe on public safety, order, health or morals. Some states argue that such limitations [on the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion] would [derivatively] permit them to make conscientious objection during time of war a threat to public safety, or mass conscientious objection a disruption to public order...[Some states] even [argue] that it is a 'moral' duty to serve the state in its military.\"\n\nOn July 30, 1993, explicit clarification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights Article 18 was made in the United Nations Human Rights Committee general comment 22, Paragraph 11: \"The Covenant does not explicitly refer to a right to conscientious objection, but the Committee believes that such a right can be derived from article 18, inasmuch as the obligation to use lethal force may seriously conflict with the freedom of conscience and the right to manifest one's religion or belief.\" In 2006, the Committee has found for the first time a right to conscientious objection under article 18, although not unanimously.\n\nIn 1997, an announcement of Amnesty International's forthcoming campaign and briefing for the UN Commission on Human Rights included this quote: \"The right to conscientious objection to military service is not a marginal concern outside the mainstream of international human rights protection and promotion.\"\n\nIn 1998, the Human Rights Commission reiterated previous statements and added \"states should . . . refrain from subjecting conscientious objectors . . . to repeated punishment for failure to perform military service.\" It also encouraged states \"to consider granting asylum to those conscientious objectors compelled to leave their country of origin because they fear persecution owing to their refusal to perform military service . . . .\"\n\nIn 2001, Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union recognised the right to conscientious objection.\n\nThe Handbook on Procedures and Criteria for Determining Refugee Status (the Handbook) of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) states:\n\n171. Not every conviction, genuine though it may be, will constitute a sufficient reason for claiming refugee status after desertion or draft-evasion. It is not enough for a person to be in disagreement with his government regarding the political justification for a particular military action. Where, however, the type of military action, with which an individual does not wish to be associated, is condemned by the international community as contrary to basic rules of human conduct, punishment for desertion or draft-evasion could, in the light of all other requirements of the definition, in itself be regarded as persecution.\n\nAir Commodore Lionel Charlton, of the British Royal Air Force (RAF), served in the military from 1898 to 1928. In 1923 he \"selectively\" refused to serve in the RAF Iraq Command. (He later went on to serve as Air Officer Commanding No 3 Group.)\n\nOn June 4, 1967, John Courtney Murray, an American Jesuit priest and theologian, delivered an address at Western Maryland College concerning a more specific type of conscientious objection: \"the issue of selective conscientious objection, conscientious objection to particular wars, or as it is sometimes called, discretionary armed service.\"\n\nOn March 8, 1971, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in the case of \"Gillette v. United States\" that \"the exemption for those who oppose \"participation in war in any form\" applies to those who oppose participating in all war and not to those who object to participation in a particular war only.\"\n\nOn September 24, 2003, in Israel, 27 reserve pilots and former pilots refused to serve in only specific missions. These specific missions included \"civilian population centers\" in \"the [occupied] territories.\" These pilots clarified: \"We ... shall continue to serve in the Israel Defense Forces and the Air Force for every mission in defense of the state of Israel.\"\n\nOn May 25, 2005, journalist Jack Random wrote the following: \"The case of Sergeant Kevin Benderman (Iraq War Resister) raises the burning issue of selective conscientious objection: While it is universally accepted that an individual cannot be compelled against conscience to war in general, does the same hold for an individual who objects, in the depths of the soul, to a particular war?\"\n\nCases of behavior which could be considered as religiously motivated conscientious objection are historically attested long before the modern term appeared. For example, the Medieval \"Orkneyinga Saga\" mentions that Magnus Erlendsson, Earl of Orkney – the future Saint Magnus – had a reputation for piety and gentleness, and because of his religious convictions refused to fight in a Viking raid on Anglesey, Wales, instead staying on board his ship singing psalms.\n\nThe reasons for refusing to perform military service are varied. Many conscientious objectors cite religious reasons. Unitarian Universalists object to war in their sixth principle \"The goal of world community with peace, liberty and justice for all\". Members of the Historic Peace Churches such as Quakers, Mennonites, Amish, Old Order Mennonite, Conservative Mennonites, the Bruderhof Communities and Church of the Brethren object to war from the conviction that Christian life is incompatible with military action, because Jesus enjoins his followers to love their enemies and to refuse violence. Since the American Civil War, Seventh-day Adventists have been known as non-combatants, and have done work in hospitals or to give medical care rather than combat roles, and the church has upheld the non-combative position. Jehovah's Witnesses and Christadelphians, refuse to participate in the armed services on the grounds that they believe they should be neutral in worldly conflicts and often cite the latter portion of Isaiah 2:4 which states, \"...neither shall they learn war anymore.\" Other objections can stem from a deep sense of responsibility toward humanity as a whole, or from simple denial that any government possesses the moral authority to command warlike behavior from its citizens.\n\nThe varied experiences of non-combatants are illustrated by those of Seventh-day Adventists when there was mandatory military service: \"Many Seventh-day Adventists refuse to enter the army as combatants, but participate as medics, ambulance drivers, etc. During World War II in Germany, many SDA conscientious objectors were sent to concentration camps or mental institutions; some were executed. Some Seventh-day Adventists volunteered for the US Army's Operation Whitecoat, participating in research to help others. The Church preferred to call them \"conscientious participants\", because they were willing to risk their lives as test subjects in potentially life-threatening research. Over 2,200 Seventh-day Adventists volunteered in experiments involving various infectious agents during the 1950s through the 1970s in Fort Detrick, MD. \" Earlier, a schism arose during and after World War I between Seventh-day Adventists in Germany who agreed to serve in the military if conscripted and those who rejected all participation in warfare — the latter group eventually forming a separate church (the Seventh Day Adventist Reform Movement).\nIn the early Christian Church followers of Christ refused to take up arms.\n\nAfter the Roman Empire officially embraced Christianity, the Just War theology was developed in order to reconcile warfare with Christian belief. After Theodosius I made Christianity an official religion of the Empire, this position slowly developed into the official position of the Western Church. In the 11th century, there was a further shift of opinion in the Latin-Christian tradition with the crusades, strengthening the idea and acceptability of Holy War. Objectors became a minority. Some theologians see the Constantinian shift and the loss of Christian pacifism as a great failing of the Church.\n\nBen Salmon was a Catholic conscientious objector during World War I and outspoken critic of Just War theology. The Catholic Church denounced him and \"The New York Times\" described him as a \"spy suspect.\" The US military (in which he was never inducted) charged him with desertion and spreading propaganda, then sentenced him to death (this was later revised to 25 years hard labor). On June 5, 1917, Salmon wrote in a letter to President Wilson:\n\nBecause of their conscientious objection to participation in military service, whether armed or unarmed, Jehovah's Witnesses have often faced imprisonment or other penalties. In Greece, for example, before the introduction of alternative civilian service in 1997, hundreds of Witnesses were imprisoned, some for three years or even more for their refusal. In Armenia, young Jehovah's Witnesses were imprisoned because of their conscientious objection to military service; this was discontinued in November 2013. The government of South Korea also imprisons hundreds for refusing the draft. In Switzerland, virtually every Jehovah's Witness is exempted from military service. The Finnish government exempts Jehovah's Witnesses from the draft completely.\n\nFor believers in Indian religions, the opposition to warfare may be based on either the general idea of ahimsa, nonviolence, or on an explicit prohibition of violence by their religion, e.g., for a Buddhist, one of the five precepts is \"Pānātipātā veramaṇi sikkhāpadam samādiyāmi,\" or \"I undertake the precept to refrain from destroying living creatures,\" which is in obvious opposition to the practice of warfare. The 14th Dalai Lama has stated that war \"should be relegated to the dustbin of history.\" On the other hand, many Buddhist sects, especially in Japan, have been thoroughly militarized, warrior monks (\"yamabushi\" or \"sōhei\") participating in the civil wars. Hindu beliefs do not go against the concept of war, as seen in the Gita. Both Sikhs and Hindus believe war should be a last resort and should be fought to sustain life and morality in society.\n\nBahá'ís are advised to do social service instead of active army service, but when this is not possible because of obligations in certain countries, the Bahá'í law of \"loyalty to one's government\" is preferred and the individual should perform the army service.\n\nSome practitioners of pagan religions, particularly Wicca, may object on the grounds of the Wiccan rede, which states \"An it harm none, do what ye will\" (or variations). The threefold law may also be grounds for objection.\n\nA notable example of a conscientious objector was the Austrian devout Roman Catholic Christian Franz Jägerstätter, who was executed on August 9, 1943 for openly refusing to serve in the Nazi Wehrmacht, consciously accepting the penalty of death. He was declared Blessed by Pope Benedict XVI in 2007 for dying for his beliefs, and is viewed as a symbol of self-sacrificing resistance.\n\nSome conscientious objectors are unwilling to serve the military in any capacity, while others accept noncombatant roles. While conscientious objection is usually the refusal to collaborate with military organizations, as a combatant in war or in any supportive role, some advocate compromising forms of conscientious objection. One compromising form is to accept non-combatant roles during conscription or military service. Alternatives to military or civilian service include serving an imprisonment or other punishment for refusing conscription, falsely claiming unfitness for duty by feigning an allergy or a heart condition, delaying conscription until the maximum drafting age, or seeking refuge in a country which does not extradite those wanted for military conscription. Avoiding military service is sometimes labeled draft dodging, particularly if the goal is accomplished through dishonesty or evasive maneuvers. However, many people who support conscription will distinguish between \"bona fide\" \"conscientious objection\" and \"draft dodging\", which they view as evasion of military service without a valid excuse.\n\nConservative Mennonites do not object to serving their country in peaceful alternatives (alternative service) such as hospital work, farming, forestry, road construction and similar occupations. Their objection is in being part in any military capacity whether noncombatant or regular service. During World War II and the Korean, Vietnam war eras they served in many such capacities in alternative I-W service programs initially through the Mennonite Central Committee and now through their own alternatives.\n\nDespite the fact that international institutions such as the United Nations (UN) and the Council of Europe (CoE) regard and promote conscientious objection as a human right, , it still does not have a legal basis in most countries. Among the roughly one-hundred countries that have conscription, only thirty countries have some legal provisions, 25 of them in Europe. In Europe, most countries with conscription more or less fulfill international guidelines on conscientious objection legislation (except for Greece, Cyprus, Turkey, Finland and Russia) today. In many countries outside Europe, especially in armed conflict areas (e.g. Democratic Republic of the Congo), conscientious objection is punished severely.\n\nWhile conscientious objectors used to be seen as deserters, traitors, cowards, slackers or simply un-patriotic, their image has changed drastically in the Western world in past decades. Especially in Europe, where objectors usually serve an alternative civilian service, they are regarded as making an equally important contribution to society as conscripts. Parallel to that, the number of objectors has risen significantly, too: e.g., in Germany, where conscientious objection is a constitutional right, from less than one percent of all eligible men to more than fifty percent in 2003. In 1991, The Peace Abbey established the National Registry for Conscientious Objection where people can publicly state their refusal to participate in armed conflict.\n\nConscription was mandatory to all able-bodied Belgian males until 1994, when it was suspended. Civilian service was possible since 1963. Objectors could apply for the status of conscience objector. When granted, they did an alternative service with the civil service or with a socio-cultural organisation. The former would last 1.5 times as long as the shortest military service, the latter twice as long.\n\nAfter their service, objectors are not allowed to take jobs that require them to carry weapons, such as police jobs, until the age of 42.\n\nSince conscription was suspended in 1994 and military service is voluntary, the status of conscience objector can not be granted anymore in Belgium.\n\nMennonites and other similar peace churches in Canada were automatically exempt from any type of service during Canada's involvement in World War I by provisions of the Order in Council of 1873 yet initially, many were imprisoned until the matter was again resettled. With pressure of public opinion, the Canadian government barred entry of additional Mennonite and Hutterite immigrants, rescinding the privileges of the Order in Council. During Canada's involvement in World War II, Canadian conscientious objectors were given the options of noncombatant military service, serving in the medical or dental corps under military control or working in parks and on roads under civilian supervision. Over 95% chose the latter and were placed in Alternative Service camps. Initially the men worked on road building, forestry and firefighting projects. After May 1943, as the labour shortage developed within the nation and another Conscription Crisis burgeoned, men were shifted into agriculture, education and industry. The 10,700 Canadian objectors were mostly Mennonites (63%) and Dukhobors (20%).\n\nConscientious objection is not recognised in Colombia, which has occasionally resulted of the detention and forced recruitment of those who refuse the draft. This is despite the fact that the Colombia constitutional court has ruled that conscientious objection is protected by the constitution in 2012. War Resisters' International's report on conscientious objection in Colombia Before being ruled unconstitutional by the court as illegal in Sentence T-455/14, people were at risk of \"batidas\" - raids in the street and public spaces - where young people were rounded up and forcibly recruited if they could not prove they had already undergone military service.\n\nIn Czechoslovakia, those not willing to enter mandatory military service could avoid it by signing a contract for work lasting years in unattractive occupations, such as mining. Those who didn't sign were imprisoned. Both numbers were tiny. After the communist party lost its power in 1989, alternative civil service was established. As of 2006, both the Czech Republic and Slovakia have abolished conscription.\n\nAny male getting drafted, but unwilling to serve, has the ability to avoid military service by instead serving community service for the duration of the conscription.\n\nThere is no right to conscientious objection to military service in Eritrea - which is of an indefinite length - and those who refuse the draft are imprisoned. Some Jehovah's Witness conscientious objectors have been in jail since 1994.\n\nFinland introduced conscription in 1881, but its enforcement was suspended in 1903 as part of Russification. During the Finnish Civil War in 1918, conscription was reintroduced for all able-bodied men. In 1922, the option of noncombatant military service was introduced, but service in the military remained compulsory on pain of imprisonment. After the struggle of pacifist Arndt Pekurinen a law was passed providing for a peacetime-only alternative to military service, or civilian service (Finnish \"siviilipalvelus\"). The law was dubbed \"Lex Pekurinen\" after him. During the Winter War, Pekurinen and other conscientious objectors were imprisoned, and Pekurinen was eventually executed at the front in 1941, during the Continuation War.\n\nAfter the war, a conscientious objector's civilian service lasted 16 months, whereas military service was 8 months at its shortest. To qualify for civilian service, an objector had to explain his conviction before a board of inspection that included military officers and clergymen. In 1987, the duration of the service was shortened to 13 months and the board of inspection was abolished. In 2008, the term was further shortened to 12 months to match the duration of the longest military service (that of officer trainees and technical crew). Today, a person subject to conscription may apply for civilian service at any time before or during his military service, and the application is accepted as a matter of course. A female performing voluntary military service can quit her service anytime during the first 45 days, however, if she wants to quit after those 45 days she would be treated like a male and assigned to civilian service.\n\nPersons who have completed their civilian service during peacetime have, according to the legislation enacted in 2008, the right to serve in non-military duties also during a crisis situation. They may be called to serve in various duties with the rescue services or other necessary work of a non-military nature. Persons who declare themselves to be conscientious objectors only after a crisis has started must, however, prove their conviction before a special board. Before the new legislation, the right to conscientious objection was acknowledged only in peacetime. The changes to the service term and to the legal status of objectors during a crisis situation were made as a response to human rights concerns voiced by several international bodies, who are overseeing the implementation of human rights agreements. These organisations had demanded Finland to take measures to improve its legislation concerning conscientious objectors, which they considered discriminatory. None of these organisations have yet raised concerns on the current legislation.\n\nThere are a small number of total objectors who refuse even civilian service, and are imprisoned for six months. This is not registered into the person's criminal record.\n\nThe creation of a legal status for conscientious objectors in France was the subject of a long struggle involving for instance or the much-publicised trials of Protestant activists Jacques Martin, Philippe Vernier and Camille Rombault in 1932–1933 or the hunger strike of anarchist Louis Lecoin in 1962.\n\nThe legal status law was passed in December 1963, 43 years (and many prison sentences) after the first requests.\n\nIn 1983, a new law passed by socialist Interior Minister Pierre Joxe considerably improved this status, simplifying the conditions under which the status would be granted. Conscientious objectors were then free to choose an activity in the social realm where they would spend their civil service time. However, in order to avoid too many applications for civil service at the expense of the military, the duration of the civil service is however kept twice as long as the military service.\n\nThe effect of these laws was suspended in 2001 when compulsory military service was abolished in France. The special prison at Strasbourg for Jehovah's Witnesses, who refuse to join any military, was also abolished.\n\nSince 1986, the associations defending conscientious objection in France have chosen to celebrate their cause on 15 May.\n\nUnder the Nazis, conscientious objection was not recognized in the law. In theory, objectors would be drafted and then court-martialled for desertion. The practice was even harsher: going beyond the letter of an already extremely flexible law, conscientious objection was considered subversion of military strength, a crime normally punished with death. On September 15, 1939 August Dickmann, a Jehovah's Witness, and the first conscientious objector of the war to be executed, died by a firing squad at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp. Among others, Franz Jägerstätter was executed after his conscientious objection, on the grounds that he could not fight in the forces of the evil side. He is now somewhat the patron saint of conscientious objectors.\n\nAfter World War II, there was no official right to conscientious objection in the German Democratic Republic. Nevertheless, and uniquely among the Eastern bloc, objections were accepted and the objectors assigned to construction units. They were however part of the military, so that a fully civilian alternative did not exist. Also, \"construction soldiers\" were discriminated against in their later professional life.\n\nAccording to Article 4(3) of the German constitution (Grundgesetz): \"No person may be forced against their conscience to perform armed military service. Details shall be regulated by a federal law.\"\n\nAccording to Article 12a, a law may be passed to require every male from the age of 18 to military service called \"Wehrdienst\"; also, a law can require conscientious objectors to perform non-military service instead called \"Wehrersatzdienst\", literally \"military replacement service\", or colloquially \"Zivildienst\". These laws were applicable and demanded compulsory service in the German Bundeswehr until the abolition of draft in 2011. Initially, conscientious objectors each had to appear in person to a panel hearing at the draft office (or contest a negative decision at the administrative court). The suspension of the procedure (1977), allowing to \"object with a post card\", was ruled unconstitutional in 1978. Beginning in 1983, competence was shifted to the \"Kreiswehrersatzamt\" (military replacement office), which had discretion to either approve or reject a conscientious objection, which had to consist of a detailed written statement by an applicant giving reasons as to why the applicant was conscientiously objecting. This was generally just a formality, and objections were not often rejected. In later years in particular however, with the rise of the Internet, conscientious objections fell into disrepute because of the ease of being able to simply download existing example objections. It earned some conscientious objections the suspicion of an applicant simply attempting an easy way out of military service. On the other hand, certain organizations within the German peace movement had been offering pamphlets for decades giving suggestions to applicants as to the proper wording and structure of an objection which would have the greatest chances of success.\n\nFollowing a 1985 Federal Constitution Court decision, Wehrersatzdienst could be no simple choice of convenience for an applicant, but he had to cite veritable conflict of conscience which made him unable to perform any kind of military service at all. If there was doubt about the true nature of an objector's application, he could be summoned to appear before a panel at the Kreiswehrersatzamt to explain his reasons in person. An approved conscientious objection in any case then meant that an applicant was required by law to perform Wehrersatzdienst. Complete objection both to military and replacement service was known as \"Totalverweigerung\"; it was illegal and could be punished with a fine or a suspended custodial sentence.\n\nNearly the only legal way to get both out of military service and replacement service was to be deemed physically unfit for military service. Both men who entered military service and those who wanted to go into replacement service had to pass a military physical examination at the military replacement office. Five categories/levels of physical fitness, or \"Tauglichkeitsstufen\", existed. \"Tauglichkeitsstufe 5\", in short \"T5\", meant that a person was rejected for military service and thus also did not need to enter replacement service. \"T5\" status was usually only granted if a person had physical or mental disabilities or was otherwise significantly impaired, such as due to very poor eyesight or debilitating chronic illnesses.\n\nAnother way to get out of service completely was the \"two brothers rule\", which stated that if two older brothers had already served in the military, any following male children of a family were exempt from service.\n\nDue to West Berlin's special status between the end of the Second World War and 1990 as a city governed by foreign military powers, draft did not apply within its borders. This made Berlin a safe haven for many young people who chose to move to the city to prevent criminal court repercussions for \"Totalverweigerung\". As \"Totalverweigerer\" were often part of the far-left political spectrum, this was one factor which spawned a politically active left-wing and left-wing radical scene in the city.\n\nWehrersatzdienst was for a long time considerably longer than military service, by up to a third, even when the duration of service was gradually reduced following reunification and the end of the Cold War. This was held by some as a violation of constitutional principles, but was upheld in several court decisions based on the reasoning that former service personnel could be redrafted for military exercises called \"Wehrübungen\", while somebody who had served out his replacement service could not. Moreover, work conditions under military service typically involved more hardship and inconvenience than Wehrersatzdienst. In 2004, military service and Wehrersatzdienst were then made to last equal lengths of time.\n\nMilitary service and draft were controversial during much of their existence. Reasons included the consideration that Germans could be made to fight against their fellow Germans in East Germany. Moreover, draft only applied to men, which was seen as gender based discrimination by some, but was often countered by the argument that women usually gave up their careers either temporarily or permanently to raise their children. With the end of the Cold War and the German military's primary purpose of defending its home territory increasingly looking doubtful, draft also began to become more arbitrary, as only certain portions of a particular birth year were drafted (usually those in very healthy physcial condition), while others weren't. This was seen as a problem of \"Wehrgerechtigkeit\", or equal justice of military service.\n\nThen-German President Roman Herzog said in a 1994 speech (which was frequently cited as an argument for draft abolition) that only the necessity for national defense, not any other arguments can justify draft. On the other hand, this logic tended to not be extended to men serving Wehrersatzdienst, as they usually worked in fields of public health, elderly care, medical assistance or assistance for the disabled. Their relatively low-paid work was seen as an ever more important backbone of a health sector which was grappling with rapidly increasing costs of care.\n\nDraft was finally abolished in Germany in 2011, mainly due to a perceived lack of aforementioned necessity. The German Bundeswehr now solely relies on service members who deliberately choose it as a career path. Neither Article 12a (establishing the possibility of draft) nor Article 4 (3) (permitting conscientious objection) have been removed from the German Constitution. In theory, this makes a full reversion to draft (and Wehrersatzdienst) possible if it is thought to be necessary.\n\nAll Israeli citizens and permanent residents are liable to military service. However, the Ministry of Defense has used its discretion under article 36 of this law to automatically exempt all non-Jewish women and all Arab men, except for the Druze, from military service ever since Israel was established. Israeli Arabs may volunteer to perform military service, but very few do so (except among the Bedouin population of Israel).\n\nIn discussing the status of the armed forces shortly after the founding of the State of Israel, representatives of orthodox religious parties argued that yeshiva students should be exempt from military service. This derives from the Jewish tradition that if a man wants to dedicate his life to religious study, society must allow him to do so. The request of orthodox political parties to 'prevent neglect of studying the Torah' was granted by the authorities. But in recent years this exemption practice has become the subject of debate in Israeli society, as the absolute and the relative numbers of the men who received this exemption rose sharply. In 2012, the Israeli Supreme Court ruled in the case of \"Ressler et al. v. The Knesset et al.\". that the blanket exemption granted to ultra-Orthodox yeshiva students was \"ultra vires\" the authority of the Minister of Defence, and that it violated Basic Law: Human Dignity and Liberty and was, therefore, unconstitutional.\n\nAs for conscientious objection, in 2002, in the case of \"David Zonschein et al. v. Military Advocate General et al.\", the Supreme Court reiterated its position that selective conscientious objection was not permitted, adding that conscientious objection could only be recognized in cases of general objection to military service.\n\nWomen can claim exemption from military service on grounds of conscience under arts. 39 (c) and 40 of the Defense Service Law, according to which religious reasons can be grounds for exemption.\n\nUntil 2004 conscription was mandatory to all able-bodied Italian males. Those who were born in the last months of the year typically used to serve in the Navy, unless judged unable for ship service (in this case they could be sent back to Army or Air Force). Until 1972, objectors were considered as traitors and tried by a military tribunal; after 1972, objectors could choose an alternative civilian service, which was eight months longer than standard military service (fifteen months, then twelve, as for Army and Air Force, 24 months, then eighteen, then twelve as for the Navy). Since such length was judged too punitive, an arrangement was made to make the civilian service as long as the military service. Since 2004, Italian males no longer need to object because military service has been turned into volunteer for both males and females.\n\nIn the Republic of the Marshall Islands no person can be conscripted if, after being afforded a reasonable opportunity to do so, he has established that he is a conscientious objector to participation in war (Marshall Islands Constitution Article II Section 11).\n\nIn Romania, as of 23 October 2006 conscription was suspended, therefore, the status of conscience objector does not apply. This came about due to a 2003 constitutional amendment which allowed the parliament to make military service optional. The Romanian Parliament voted to abolish conscription in October 2005, with the vote formalizing one of many military modernization and reform programs that Romania agreed to when it joined NATO.\n\nThe Russian Empire allowed Russian Mennonites to run and maintain forestry service units in South Russia in lieu of their military obligation. The program was under church control from 1881 through 1918, reaching a peak of seven thousand conscientious objectors during World War I. An additional five thousand Mennonites formed complete hospital units and transport wounded from the battlefield to Moscow and Ekaterinoslav hospitals.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution of 1917, Leon Trotsky issued a decree allowing alternative service for religious objectors whose sincerity was determined upon examination. Vladimir Chertkov, a follower of Leo Tolstoy, chaired the \"United Council of Religious Fellowships and Groups\", which successfully freed 8000 conscientious objectors from military service during the Russian Civil War. The law was not applied uniformly and hundreds of objectors were imprisoned and over 200 were executed.The United Council was forced to cease activity in December 1920, but alternative service was available under the New Economic Policy until it was abolished in 1936. Unlike the earlier forestry and hospital service, later conscientious objectors were classified \"enemies of the people\" and their alternative service was performed in remote areas in a gulag-like environment in order to break their resistance and encourage enlistment.\n\nIn the present day, Russian draft legislation allows people to choose an alternative civilian service for religious or ideological reasons. Most objectors are employed in healthcare, construction, forestry and post industries, serving 18 to 21 months.\n\nDuring the 1980s, hundreds of South African white males dodged the draft, refused the call-up or objected to conscription in the South African Defence Force. Some simply deserted, or joined organisations such as the End Conscription Campaign, an anti-war movement banned in 1988, while others fled into exile and joined the Committee on South African War Resistance. Most lived in a state of internal exile, forced to go underground within the borders of the country until a moratorium on conscription was declared in 1993. Opposition to the Angolan War, \"South Africa's Vietnam,\" was rife in English-speaking campuses, and later the war in the townships became the focus of these groupings.\n\nThe terminology conscientious objector technically has not existed in Korean dictionary until recently. In fact, significant majority of Korean citizens simply associate conscientious objectors with draft dodging, and are unaware of the fact that conscientious objector draftees in other westernized countries are required to serve in alternative services. Since the establishment of the Republic of Korea, thousands of conscientious objectors had no choice but to be imprisoned as criminals. Every year about 500 young men, mostly Jehovah's Witnesses, are arrested for refusing the draft.\n\nSouth Korea's stance has drawn criticism from The U.N. Human Rights Committee, which argues that South Korea is violating article 18 of the ICCPR, which guarantees freedom of thought and conscience. In 2006, 2010, and again in 2011 the U.N. Human Rights Committee, after reviewing petitions from South Korean conscientious objectors, declared that the government was violating Article 18 of the ICCPR, the provision that guarantees the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.\n\nThe government's National Action Plan (NAP) for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights has not shown a clear stance on the pressing human rights issues such as, among other things, the rights of conscientious objectors to military service.\n\nIn September 2007 the government announced a program to give conscientious objectors an opportunity to participate in alternative civilian service. The program stipulates three years of civilian service that is not connected with the military in any way. However, that program has been postponed indefinitely after the succeeding administration took office in 2008.\n\nThe government argues that introducing an alternative service would jeopardize national security and undermine social equality and cohesion. This is amid an increasing number of countries which retain compulsory service have introduced alternatives. In addition, some countries, including those with national security concerns have shown that alternative service can be successfully implemented.\n\nOn January 15, 2009, the Korean Presidential Commission on Suspicious Deaths in the Military released its decision acknowledging that the government was responsible for the deaths of five young men, who were Jehovah's Witnesses and had forcibly been conscripted into the army.\nThe deaths resulted from \"the state's anti-human rights violence\" and \"its acts of brutality\" during the 1970s that continued into the mid-1980s. This decision is significant since it is the first one recognizing the state's responsibility for deaths resulting from violence within the military.\nAccording to the Commission's decision, \"the beatings and acts of brutality committed against them by military officials were attempts to compel and coerce them to act against their conscience (religion) and were unconstitutional, anti-human rights acts that infringed severely upon the freedom of conscience (religion) guaranteed in the Constitution.\"\n\nThe records of conscientious objectors to military service are kept by a governmental investigative body as criminal files for five years. As a consequence, conscientious objectors are not allowed to enter a government office and apply for any type of national certification exam. It is also very unlikely that they will be employed by any company that inquires about criminal records.\nFrom 2000 to 2008, Korean Military Manpower Administration said that at least 4,958 men have objected to service in the military because of religious beliefs. Among those, 4,925 were Jehovah's Witnesses, 3 were Buddhists, and the other 30 refused the mandatory service because of conscientious objections other than religious reasons.\nSince 1950, there have been more than 16,000 Jehovah's Witnesses sentenced to a combined total of 31,256 years for refusing to perform military service. If alternative service is not provided, some 500 to 900 young men will continue to be added each year to the list of conscientious objectors criminalized in Korea.\n\nIn 2015, Lee Yeda was the first conscientious objector to be allowed to live in France via asylum.\n\nIn June 2018, the Constitutional Court ruled 6-3 that Article 5 of the country's Military Service Act is unconstitutional because it fails to provide an alternative civilian national service for conscientious objectors. , 19,300 South Korean conscientious objectors had gone to prison since 1953. The Defense Ministry said it would honor the ruling by introducing alternative services as soon as possible.\n\nConscientious objection was not permitted in Francoist Spain. Conscientious objectors usually refused to serve on religious grounds, such as being Jehovah's Witnesses, and were placed in prison for the duration of their sentences. The Spanish Constitution of 1978 acknowledged conscientious objectors. The Spanish parliament established a longer service (\"Prestación Social Sustitutoria\") as an alternative to the Army. In spite of this, a strong movement appeared that refused both services. The Red Cross was the only important organisation employing objectors. Because of this, the waiting lists for the PSS were long, especially in areas like Navarre, where pacifism, Basque nationalism and a low unemployment rate discouraged young males from the army. Thousands of \"insumisos\" (non-submittants) publicly refused the PSS, and hundreds were imprisoned. In addition a number of those in the military decided to refuse further duties. A number of people not liable for military service made declarations of self-incrimination, stating that they had encouraged \"insumisión\". The government, fearing popular reaction, reduced the length of service and instead of sentencing \"insumisos\" to prison declared them unfit for public service.\n\nFronting the decreasing birth rate and the popular opposition to the army, the Spanish government tried to modernise the model carried from the Franco era, professionalizing it. The new army tried to provide an education for civilian life and participated in peace operations in Bosnia.\n\nThe issue is highly controversial in Turkey. Turkey, Armenia and Azerbaijan are the only three countries refusing to recognize conscientious objection and sustain their membership in the Council of Europe. In January 2006, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) found Turkey had violated article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights (prohibition of degrading treatment) in a case dealing with the conscientious objection of Osman Murat Ulke. In 2005, Mehmet Tarhan was sentenced to four years in a military prison as a conscientious objector (he was unexpectedly released in March 2006). Journalist Perihan Magden was tried by a Turkish court for supporting Tarhan and advocating conscientious objection as a human right; but later, she was acquitted.\n\n, there were 125 objectors including 25 female objectors in Turkey. Another 256 people of Kurdish origin also had announced their conscientious objection to military service. Conscientious objector İnan Süver was named a prisoner of conscience by Amnesty International.\n\nOn 14 November 2011, the Ministry of Justice announced a draft proposal to legalise conscientious objection in Turkey and that it was to take effect two weeks after approval by the President to the change. This decision to legalize by the Turkish government was because of pressure from the European Court of Human Rights. The ECHR gave the Turkish government a deadline until the end of 2011 to legalize conscientious objection. The draft was withdrawn afterwards.\n\nA commission was founded within the National Assembly of the Republic to write a new constitution in 2012. The commission is still in negotiations on various articles and conscientious objection is one of the most controversial issues.\n\nThe United Kingdom recognised the right of individuals not to fight in the 18th century following problems with attempting to force Quakers into military service. The Militia Ballot Act of 1757 allowed Quakers to be excluded from service in the Militia. It then ceased to be a major issue, since Britain's armed forces were generally all-volunteer. However, press gangs were used to beef up army and navy rolls on occasions from the 16th to the early 19th centuries. Pressed men did have the right of appeal, in the case of sailors, to the Admiralty. The Royal Navy last took pressed men in the Napoleonic War.\n\nA more general right to refuse military service was not introduced until the First World War. Britain introduced conscription with the Military Service Act of January 1916, which came into full effect on 2 March 1916. The Act allowed for objectors to be absolutely exempted, to perform alternative civilian service, or to serve as a non-combatant in the army's Non-Combatant Corps, according to the extent to which they could convince a Military Service Tribunal of the quality of their objection.\n\nAround 16,000 men were recorded as conscientious objectors, with Quakers, traditionally pacifist, forming a large proportion: 4,500 objectors were exempted on condition of doing civilian 'work of national importance', such as farming, forestry or social service; and 7,000 were conscripted into the specially-created Non-Combatant Corps. However, 6,000 were refused any exemption and forced into main army regiments; if they then refused to obey orders, they were court-martialled and sent to prison. Thus, the well-known pacifist and religious writer Stephen Henry Hobhouse was called up in 1916: he and many other Quaker activists took the unconditionalist stand, refusing both military and alternative service, and on enforced enlistment were court-martialled and imprisoned for disobedience. Conscientious objectors formed only a tiny proportion of Military Service Tribunals' cases over the whole conscription period, estimated at around 2%. Tribunals were notoriously harsh towards conscientious objectors, reflecting widespread public opinion that they were lazy, degenerate, ungrateful 'shirkers' seeking to benefit from the sacrifices of others.\n\nThirty-five objectors, including the Richmond Sixteen, were taken to France and formally sentenced to death by court-martial but immediately reprieved, with commutation to ten-years' penal servitude. Conditions were very hard for conscientious objector prisoners, many of whom were not used to manual work, lack of regular exercise, and the often cold, damp conditions; ten died in prison, and around seventy more died elsewhere as a result of their treatment.\n\nAlthough a few objectors were accepted for non-combatant service in the Royal Army Medical Corps, acting as nursing/paramedic assistants, the majority of non-combatants served in the Non-Combatant Corps on non-lethal stores, road and railway building and general labouring in the UK and France. Conscientious objectors who were deemed not to have made any useful contribution to the state were formally disfranchised (through a clause inserted in the Representation of the People Act 1918 at the insistence of back-bench MPs) for the five years 1 September 1921 - 31 August 1926, but as it was a last-minute amendment there was no administrative machinery to enforce such disfranchisement, which was admitted to be a \"dead letter\".\n\nBritain's conscription legislation of 1916 did not apply to Ireland, despite it being then all part of the United Kingdom. However, in 1918 the Army's continuing demand for more troops led to passing a further act enabling conscription in Ireland if and when the government saw fit. In the event, the government never saw fit, although the legislation led to the Conscription Crisis of 1918. Similarly, British conscription in the Second World War did not apply to Northern Ireland. Nevertheless, many Irishmen volunteered to fight in both world wars. The various parts of the British Empire and Commonwealth had their own laws: in general, all the larger countries of the Empire participated, and some were, in proportion to their population, major participants in the First World War.\n\nIn the Second World War, following the National Service (Armed Forces) Act 1939, there were nearly 60,000 registered Conscientious Objectors. Testing by tribunals resumed, this time by special Conscientious Objection Tribunals chaired by a judge, and the effects were much less harsh. If you were not a member of the Quakers or some similar pacifist organisation, it was generally enough to say that you objected to \"warfare as a means of settling international disputes\", a phrase from the Kellogg-Briand Pact of 1928. The tribunals could grant full exemption, exemption conditional on alternative service, exemption only from combatant duties, or dismiss the application. Of the 61,000 who were registered, 3,000 were given complete exemption; 18,000 applications were initially dismissed, but a number of such applicants succeeded at the Appellate Tribunal, sometimes after a \"qualifying\" sentence of three-months' imprisonment for an offence deemed to have been committed on grounds of conscience. Of those directed to non-combatant military service almost 7,000 were allocated to the Non-Combatant Corps, re-activated in mid-1940; its companies worked in clothing and food stores, in transport, or any military project not requiring the handling of \"material of an aggressive nature\". In November 1940 it was decided to allow troops in the NCC to volunteer for work in bomb disposal. In total over 350 volunteered. Other non-combatants worked in the Royal Army Medical Corps. For conscientious objectors exempted conditional upon performing civil work, acceptable occupations were farm work, mining, firefighting and the ambulance service. About 5,500 objectors were imprisoned, most charged with refusal to attend a medical examination as a necessary preliminary to call-up after being refused exemption, and some charged with non-compliance with the terms of conditional exemption. A further 1,000 were court-martialled by the armed forces and sent to military detention barracks or civil prisons. Differently from the First World War, most sentences were relatively short, and there was no pattern of continually repeated sentences. Nevertheless, the social stigma attached to 'conchies' (as they were called) was considerable; regardless of the genuineness of their motives, cowardice was often imputed.\n\nConscription in the United Kingdom was retained, with rights of conscientious objection, as National Service until the last call-up in 1960 and the last discharge in 1963. The use of all volunteer soldiers was hoped to remove the need to consider conscientious objectors. Ever since the First World War, however, there have been volunteer members of the armed forces who have developed a conscientious objection to continuing in service; a procedure was devised for them in the Second World War, and, with adaptations, it continues to this day.\n\nThere are currently legal provisions in the United States for recognizing conscientious objection, both through the Selective Service System and through the Department of Defense. The United States recognizes religious and moral objections, but not selective objections. Conscientious objectors in the United States may perform either civilian work or noncombatant service in lieu of combatant military service.\n\nHistorically, conscientious objectors have been persecuted in the United States. After the Selective Service System was founded during World War I, such persecutions decreased in frequency, and recognition for conscientious objectors grew.\n\nAs of 2005, conscientious objectors in several countries may serve as field paramedics in the army (although some do not consider this a genuine alternative, as they feel it merely helps to make war more humane instead of preventing it). Alternatively, they may serve without arms, although this, too, has its problems. In certain European countries such as Austria, Germany, Greece and Switzerland, there is the option of performing civilian service, subject to the review of a written application or after a hearing about the state of conscience. In Germany, however, the draft was suspended in 2011. In Greece, civilian service is twice as long as the corresponding military service; the Swiss Civilian Service is one and one-half times longer. In 2005, the Swiss parliament considered whether willingness to serve one and a half times longer than an army recruit was sufficient proof of sincerity, citing that the cost of judging the state of conscience of a few thousand men per year was too great.\n\nOnly three European Union countries – Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom – recognize the right to conscientious objection for contract and professional military personnel.\n\nIn the United States, military personnel who come to a conviction of conscientious objection during their tour of duty must appear in front of a panel of experts, which consists of psychiatrists, military chaplains and officers.\n\nIn Switzerland, the panel consists entirely of civilians, and military personnel have no authority whatsoever. In Germany, the draft has been suspended since 2011.\n\nInvestigators ask questions to determine the sincerity of an individual's convictions. Responses such as \"the army is senseless,\" \"it is not just to wage wars,\" or opposing participation in merely some wars, indicate sociological, philosophical, or political objections, which are not accepted alone.\n\nThe following are questions often asked of conscientious objectors in Swiss hearings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39604382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39604382", "title": "Convention for the Preservation of Wild Animals, Birds and Fish in Africa", "text": "Convention for the Preservation of Wild Animals, Birds and Fish in Africa\n\nThe Convention for the Preservation of Wild Animals, Birds and Fish in Africa (also known as the London Convention of 1900) is a multilateral treaty on wildlife preservation that was signed by the European colonial powers in London in 1900. Although it never entered into force, it has nevertheless been recognised as one of history's earliest agreements on nature conservation.\n\nThe convention was concluded and signed on 19 May 1900 by France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Portugal, Spain, and the Congo Free State. The treaty required all signatory states to ratify it before entering into force; because most of the signatories did not ratify the agreement, it never entered into force. \n\nA key innovation of the convention—which is still used today in conservation treaties—was the inclusion of schedules which placed animals in different categories of protection.\n\nThe animals in Schedule 1 were to be protected from all hunting and destruction; this was done either because of the animals' perceived \"usefulness\" or \"their rarity and threatened extermination\":\nThe animals in Schedule 2 were to be protected from all hunting and destruction while the animals were young. Female animals in Schedule 3 were to be protected from all hunting and destruction when they were accompanied by their young. The lists of animals in Schedules 2 and 3 were identical:\nThe animals in Schedule 4 were to be protected from hunting and destruction \"except in limited numbers\":\nThe animals in Schedule 5 were designated \"harmful\" and the treaty regarded them as desirable to be reduced in numbers \"within sufficient limits\":\nThe convention encouraged the destruction of the eggs of crocodiles, poisonous snakes, and pythons.\n\nThe convention encouraged the creation of wildlife reserves. It would have prohibited the use of nets and pitfalls in hunting and the use of explosives or poison on fish. The convention allowed for the creation of export duties on animal hides, tusks, and antlers.\n\nThe treaty never entered into force and in 1933 was replaced by the Convention Relative to the Preservation of Fauna and Flora in their Natural State.\n\n"}
{"id": "22253763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22253763", "title": "Decree 770", "text": "Decree 770\n\nDecreței (from the Romanian language word \"decret\", meaning \"decree\"; diminutive decrețel) are Romanians born in the late 1960s and 1970s, shortly after the communist regime of Nicolae Ceaușescu issued Decree 770, aimed at the creation of a new and large Romanian population by restricting abortion and contraception.\nBefore 1967, the Romanian abortion policy was one of the most liberal in Europe. Because the availability of contraceptive methods was poor, abortion was the most common means of family planning.\n\nThrough a combination of modernization of the Romanian community, the high participation of women in the labor market and a low standard of living, the number of births significantly decreased since the 1950s, reaching its lowest value in 1966. However, the leaders saw the decreasing number of births mainly as a result of the decree issued in 1957 that legalized abortion.\n\nTo counter this sharp decline of the population, the Communist Party decided that the Romanian population should be increased from 23 to 30 million inhabitants. In October 1966, Decree 770 was authorized by Ceaușescu. Abortion and contraception were declared illegal, except for:\n\nTo enforce the decree, society was strictly controlled. Contraceptives disappeared from the shelves and all women were forced to be monitored monthly by a gynecologist. Any detected pregnancies were followed until birth. Secret police kept close eyes on operations in hospitals.\n\nSex education was refocused primarily on the benefits of motherhood, including the ostensible satisfaction of being a heroic mother who gives her homeland many children.\n\nThe direct consequence of the decree was a huge baby boom. Between 1966 and 1967 the number of births almost doubled, and the number of children per woman increased from 1.9 to 3.7. The generation born in 1967 and 1968 was the largest in Romanian history. Hastily, thousands of nursery schools were built.\n\nIn the seventies, birth rates declined again. Economic pressure on families remained, and people began to seek ways to circumvent the decree. Wealthier women were able to obtain contraceptives illegally, or bribed doctors to give diagnoses which made abortion possible. Especially among the less educated and poorer women there were many unwanted pregnancies. These women could only utilize primitive methods of abortion, which led to infection, sterility or even their own death. The mortality among pregnant women became the highest of Europe during the reign of Ceaușescu. While the childbed mortality rate kept declining over the years in neighboring countries, in Romania it increased to more than ten times that of its neighbors.\n\nMany children born in this period became malnourished, were severely physically handicapped, or ended up in care under grievous conditions, which led to a rise in child mortality.\n\nA consequence of Ceaușescu's natalist policy is that large numbers of children ended up living in orphanages, because their parents could not cope. The vast majority of children who lived in the communist orphanages were not actually orphans, but were simply children whose parents could not afford to raise them.\n\nIn their book \"Freakonomics\", authors Steven Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner make the argument that children that are born after their mothers are refused an abortion are much more likely to commit crimes or refuse to recognize authority when they reach adulthood. They further argue that the Decreței are exactly the same people who spearheaded the effort to violently overthrow Ceaușescu's regime in 1989. In that year, the oldest Decreței would have been 22 years old, in the general age range of most revolutionaries. Levitt and Dubner note that Romania was the only east-European communist country with strict anti-abortion and anti-contraception laws at the time, and also the only country whose ruler was violently overthrown and killed at the end of the Cold War. Most other such countries experienced a tumultuous, but peaceful, transition. There were however other aspects of totalitarian rule that would promote violent reaction instead of peaceful transition, including a lack of associational life and legal gatherings, a more extensive system of informants and special police than any state other than East Germany, and a cult of personality built up around the supreme leader. The actual violence of the revolution can be attributed to divisions among the ruling and military/secret police and the vacuum of power that resulted. Revolutions are often observed to come in waves and it is likely that Romania would have experienced it no matter its demographic situation.\n\nAlthough in the early 1990s, shortly after abortion was legalized, the abortion rate was very high, it has gradually decreased, as more couples started using contraception, and the economy also started to improve after the instability of the transition. According to the National Institute of Statistics, the rate of abortions since 1990 is as follows:\nThis article, or a previous version, was translated from . This Dutch article used the following sources: \n\n"}
{"id": "48808070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48808070", "title": "Defend Innovation", "text": "Defend Innovation\n\nDefend Innovation is a patent reform project started by Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) in June 2012. The project initially proposed seven changes to United States's patent system, including shortening the term for software patents, requirement to provide the running software code along with patent application, and avoidance of liability of an infringer who independently arrives at the patented invention.\n\nSince June 2012, the project collected information about the patent system from lawyers, software engineers, court cases, and other sources. The information collected was combined with EFF's own expertise and compiled in a whitepaper named \"How to Fix Our Broken Patent System\", which details the issues surrounding the patent system and proposes solutions that can be implemented by the Congress, Patent Office, and also the software companies. The whitepaper is available at the Defend Innovation website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "393473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393473", "title": "Denominazione di origine controllata", "text": "Denominazione di origine controllata\n\nDenominazione di origine controllata (DOC; ; English: controlled designation of origin) is a quality assurance label for Italian wines. The system is modeled on the French \"Appellation d'origine contrôlée\" (AOC) designations. The Italian government introduced the system in 1963 and overhauled it in 1992 to comply with European Union law on protected geographical designations of origin, which came into effect that year.\n\nThere are three levels of labels: DO — Denominazione di Origine\" (designation of origin, seldom used), DOC — Denominazione di Origine Controllata\" (controlled designation of origin), and DOCG — \"Denominazione di Origine Controllata e Garantita\" (controlled and guaranteed designation of origin). All three require that a food product be produced within the specified region using defined methods and that it satisfy a defined quality standard.\n\nThe need for a DOCG identification arose when the DOC designation was, in the view of many Italian food industries, given too liberally to different products. A new, more restrictive identification was then created as similar as possible to the previous one so that buyers could still recognize it, but qualitatively different.\n\nA notable difference for wines is that DOCG labelled wines are analysed and tasted by government–licensed personnel before being bottled. To prevent later manipulation, DOCG wine bottles then are sealed with a numbered governmental seal across the cap or cork.\n\nItalian legislation additionally regulates the use of the following qualifying terms for wines: \"Classico\" (classic): reserved for wines produced in the region where a particular type of wine has been produced \"traditionally\". For the Chianti Classico, this \"traditional region\" is defined by a decree from July 10, 1932, and \"Riserva\" (reserve), which may be used only for wines that have been aged at least two years longer than normal for a particular type of wine. Wines labelled DOC or DOCG may only be sold in bottles holding 5 litres or less.\n\nFor wines produced in Bolzano, where German is an official language, DOC may alternatively be written as \"Kontrollierte Ursprungsbezeichnung\" and DOCG may be written as \"Kontrollierte und garantierte Ursprungsbezeichnung\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7253671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7253671", "title": "Eschatocol", "text": "Eschatocol\n\nAn eschatocol, or closing protocol, is the final section of a legal or public document, which may include a formulaic sentence of appreciation; the attestation of those responsible for the document, which may be the author, writer, countersigner, principal parties involved, and witnesses to the enactment or the subscription; or both. It also expresses the context of the documentation of the action described therein, i. e., enunciation of the means of validation and indication of who is responsible to document the act; and the final formulae.\n\nCommon in European medieval charters, they have been relegated to notarial acts, governmental acts, diplomatic treaties, certificates, and other formal documents.\n\nEschatocols usually contain a:\n\nIn notarial writings, the eschatocol is specifically a long form of notarial authentication, i. e. the notarization proper, and takes the form of the final clause of acts in public form or of the certificate at the end of acts in private form, typically to certify the document for use in foreign states. The words of an eschatocol are very formulaic and vary depending on the nature of the notarial act. At least in English, much of what was previously several sentences is condensed into one.\n\nFor acts in public form, typical eschatocols read as follows:\n\nFor those in private form, the following are typical:\n\n"}
{"id": "33439471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33439471", "title": "Franco-Italian Armistice", "text": "Franco-Italian Armistice\n\nThe Franco-Italian Armistice, or Armistice of Villa Incisa, signed on 24 June 1940, in effect from 25 June, ended the brief Italian invasion of France during the Second World War.\n\nOn 10 June 1940, Italy declared war on France while the latter was already on the verge of defeat in its war with Germany. After the fall of Paris on 14 June, the French requested an armistice from Germany and, realising that the Germans would not allow them to continue the war against their Italian allies, also sent an armistice request to Italy, whose forces had not yet advanced. Fearing that the war would end before Italy had achieved any of its aims, Prime Minister Benito Mussolini ordered a full-scale invasion across the Alps to begin on 21 June. The Franco-German armistice was signed on the evening of the 22 June, but would not come into force until the Italians signed their own armistice. Their troops unable to break through, the Italians abandoned their major war aims and signed the armistice on 24 June. It came into effect early the next morning. It established a small occupation zone and an Italian Armistice Commission with France (\"Commissione Italiana d'Armistizio con la Francia\", CIAF) in Turin to oversee French compliance. Armistice commissions were also established for French North Africa and French Somaliland. The armistice remained in force until November 1942, when during Case Anton the Italians occupied most of southeastern France and Corsica and invaded Tunisia.\n\nOn 17 June, the day after he transmitted a formal request for an armistice to the German government, French Foreign Minister Paul Baudoin handed to the Papal nuncio Valerio Valeri a note that said: \"The French government, headed by Marshal Pétain, requests that the Holy See transmit to the Italian government as quickly as possible the note it has also transmitted through the Spanish ambassador to the German government. It also requests that he convey to the Italian government its desire to find together the basis of a lasting peace between the two countries.\" That same morning, Mussolini received word from Hitler that France had asked Germany for an armistice, and he went to meet Hitler at Munich, charging General Roatta, Admiral Raffaele de Courten and Air Brigadier Egisto Perino with drafting Italy's demands. Ciano wrote in his diary about the ridiculous demand some of his staff suggested: the entire French fleet, all its colonies, all its locomotives, the \"Mona Lisa\". The final list of demands actually presented to the French were mild. Italy dropped its claims to the Rhône Valley, Corsica, Tunisia, and French Somaliland. According to Romain Rainero, Mussolini still clung to the goals laid out in his meeting with Hitler on 18 June as late as 21 June, when the \"Protocols of the Armistice Conditions between France and Italy\" were officially published in Rome. It was his view that it was not German pressure that led him to back down. Indeed, Hitler had wanted the Italians to claim even more territory from the defeated French. Badoglio, however, had warned Mussolini that a larger occupation of southern France would require fifteen divisions.\n\nOn the evening of 21 June, Ambassador Dino Alfieri in Berlin transmitted the German armistice terms to Rome. According to Ciano, \"under these [mild] conditions, Mussolini is not prepared to make territorial demands ... and [will] wait for the peace conference to make all our formal demands.\" He added that Mussolini wished to delay the meeting with the French in the hopes that General Gambara would take Nice. The French had tried to play the allies off against each other; they \"flattered the Germans [and] belittled the Italian war effort\". Unlike the Franco-German armistice talks, the Franco-Italian negotiations would be genuine.\n\nAt 1500 hours on 23 June, the French delegation, headed by General Charles Huntziger, who had signed the German armistice the previous day, landed in Rome aboard three German aircraft. The French negotiators were the same who had met with the Germans: Huntziger, General Maurice Parisot, a peacetime friend of Badoglio's, General Jean Bergeret, Admiral Maurice Le Luc, Charles Rochat of the Foreign Ministry and Léon Nöel, former ambassador to Poland. Italy was represented by Badoglio, Cavagnari, Ciano, Roatta and Francesco Pricolo. The first meeting of the two delegations took place at 1930 hours at the Villa Incisa all'Olgiata on the Via Cassia. It lasted only twenty-five minutes, during which Roatta read out Italy's proposed terms, Huntziger requested a recess to confer with his government and Ciano adjourned the meeting until the next day. During the adjournment, Hitler informed Mussolini that he thought the Italian demands too light, and he proposed linking up the German and Italian occupation zones. Roatta convinced Mussolini that it was too late to change the demands.\n\nAt 1915 hours on 24 June, at the Villa Incisa, after receiving his government's permission, General Huntziger signed the armistice on behalf of the French and Marshal Badoglio for the Italians signed the armistice. Both armistices came into effect at thirty-five minutes past midnight (0035 hours) on 25 June. Just minutes before the signing, Huntziger had asked Badoglio to strike the clause calling for the repatriation to Italy of political refugees (like the socialist Pietro Nenni). Badoglio consulted Mussolini, he agreed. After signing, Huntziger said to Badoglio, \"Marshal, in the present, infinitely painful circumstances, the French delegation is comforted by the sincere hope that the peace which will follow shortly will allow France to begin the task of reconstruction and renewal and will create the basis for lasting relations between our two countries in the interest of Europe and of civilization.\" Badoglio responded, \"I hope France will have a resurgence; it is a great nation with a great history, and I am certain that it will have a great future. From one soldier to another, I sincerely hope so.\" Mussolini remarked that the agreement was \"more a political than a military armistice after only fifteen days of war—but it gives us a good document in hand\".\n\nThe armistice established a modest demilitarized zone deep on the French side of the border, thus eliminating the Alpine Line. The actual Italian occupation zone was no more than what had been occupied up to the armistice. It contained 832 km² and 28,500 inhabitants, which included the city of Menton and its 21,700 inhabitants. Italy retained the right to interfere in French territory as far as the Rhône, but it did not occupy this area until after the Allied invasion of French North Africa in November 1942. In addition, demilitarized zones were established in the French colonies in Africa. Italy was granted the right to use the port of Djibouti in Somaliland with all its equipment, along with the French section of the Djibouti–Addis Ababa railway. More importantly, the naval bases of Toulon, Bizerte, Ajaccio and Oran were also to be demilitarized.\n\n"}
{"id": "28166780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28166780", "title": "Free and clear", "text": "Free and clear\n\nIn property law, the term free and clear refers to ownership without legal encumbrances, such as a lien or mortgage. So, for example: a person owns a house free and clear if he has paid off the mortgage and no creditor has filed a lien against it.\n\nLately there has been a resurgence in interest for free and clear properties despite being an investment form that has been prevalent from early on. Investing in free and clear properties removes the need for a bank loan entirely. \nOver 35% of all properties in the United States are owned free and clear with no outstanding mortgages or liens.\n\n"}
{"id": "26060285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26060285", "title": "Grotius Lectures", "text": "Grotius Lectures\n\nThe Grotius Lectures is a series of annual lectures sponsored by the American Society of International Law since 1999. The lecture is named in honour of the famous Dutch jurist, Hugo Grotius (1583–1645), considered by many to be the 'father of international law.' Over the past decade, the lecture has been delivered by a leading international law scholar or international lawyer. The lecture is customarily read at the opening of the annual meeting of the ASIL, usually held in late March or April each year. \n\nThe American Grotius Lecture should not be confused with the annual Grotius Lecture held at the British Institute of International and Comparative Law (the successor to the Grotius Society).\n\n"}
{"id": "14005508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14005508", "title": "History of Brazilian nationality", "text": "History of Brazilian nationality\n\nLocated in South America, Brazil is the fifth largest and fifth most populous nation in the world. First discovered by Portuguese explorer Pedro Álvares Cabral on April 22, 1500, it remained a Portuguese colony until it declared its independence on September 7, 1822.\n\nBrazil's economy was largely based on agriculture and mining; specifically the production of sugar and tobacco for export. As a result, land was concentrated in the hands of relatively few wealthy, plantation owning families, and production was largely dependent on slave labor. The intermixing of these Europeans and Blacks, as well as the native Indians of the territory, helped create a unique people and culture.\n\nThe social, economic, and political hierarchy of this period was largely based on race; with Europeans occupying the upper ranks and the non-whites subsequent ranks below them. Despite these internal divisions, Brazil possessed a number of factors that aided in the formation of nationalist sentiments among the elite.\n\n\"[...]First its unity of territory. Brazil stretches unbroken from the Amazon in the north to the Rio de la Plata in the south, and from the Atlantic coast to the foothills of the Andes[...] The vast majority of the people speak Portuguese and are Roman Catholic. Their language differentiates them from their Spanish speaking neighbors[...]\" \n\nA growing nationalistic trend in literature, and the emergence of colonial born elites created a sense of pride and attachment to the territory of Brazil and a distancing from Portugal. The revolutions in America, France, and the Spanish America along with the maturation of Brazil as a colony furthered nationalist sentiments.\n\nDespite its natural geographic barriers and the distinct culture of its inhabitants, Brazilian independence would only be realized after a series of events set in motion by the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nIn 1807, Portugal was invaded by Napoleon forcing prince regent Dom Joao to flee to Brazil along with other members of the royal family, and a number of notables and functionaries. This effectively making Brazil the seat of the Portuguese government.\n\nWhile in Brazil, Dom Joao instituted a number of reforms and decrees, most notably the one on December 16, 1815, which designated the Portuguese dominions the \"United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil, and the Algarves\", making Brazil coequal with Portugal.\n\nAfter the French withdrawal from Portugal, mounting pressure from the Cortes (Portuguese parliament) forced the return of Dom Joao (now King John VI) in 1821. He appointed his son, Dom Pedro, regent in his place. Looking to return Brazil to its formerly dependent colonial status, the Cortes repealed many of the decrees and reforms of King John VI, and demanded Dom Pedro's return to Europe.\n\nDefying the Cortes, Dom Pedro formed a legislative and constituent assembly on June 3, 1822, and declared Brazil's independence on September 7, 1822. He was crowned Brazil's first emperor on December 1.\n\n\nSince its independence Brazil has been subject to a lot of internal unrest resulting in several years of military rule and the promulgation of several different constitutions, the most recent one being passed in 1988. While political change has been frequent, the social and economic realities in Brazil have remained largely the same.\n\n\"Throughout modern Brazilian history every change of political regime-from the establishment of an independent empire in the early 1820s to the establishment of a modern representative democracy in the late 1980s- has demonstrated the extraordinary capacity of the Brazilian elites to defend the status quo and their own interests by controlling, co-opting and, if necessary, repressing the forces in favor of radical social change[...]\",\n\nWhile political and military developments in Europe helped lead to Brazilian independence, it was also partially a result of the Brazilian elites. The plantation owners backed Pedro's declaration of independence because it granted them greater freedom to conduct trade and the opportunity to expand their overseas markets. The emerging urban elite saw, who occupied an insecure position between plantation owners and slaves saw it as a way to improve their status. Once agreed upon, independence was secured quickly and peacefully, with no concessions being made to the underprivileged groups in society. \"The transition from colony to independent empire was characterized by political, economic, and social continuity.\" \n\nSubsequent governments and constitutions were also largely the result of elite initiatives.\n\nUnder the Imperial Constitution, power was concentrated in the hands of the hereditary emperor who had the power to appoint ministers, counselers of state, provincial presidents, and the Senate. The Chamber of Deputies was elected by a small segment of the population. Though the government was only responsible to it in a limited extent.\n\nDespite this, political participation of this period was surprisingly high. Men who were twenty-five years old (twenty-one if married), Catholic, born free, with quite low annual income had the right to vote in the elections of the Chamber of Deputies. These elections were however indirect. They elected \"eleitores\", who were required to have a higher annual income, further restricting electoral participation. And only the \"eleitores\" had the right to vote on the deputies.\n\nThe initial rates of high political participation were eventually restricted in the latter parts of the nineteenth century. A gradual shift from slave to free labor, made abolition seem inevitable. This created a growing fear among both rural and urban elites that emancipated slaves would acquire the property necessary to secure the right to vote.\n\nTo quell this fear, the \"Savaria Law\" was passed in 1881. Under this law the Chamber of Deputies would be directly elected, the voting age was lowered to twenty-one, and the property/income qualification to vote was removed. It also allowed non-Catholics and former slaves to become eligible voters. Most importantly, it required people to pass a literacy test in order to gain the right to vote.\n\nRather than extend political participation, the literacy tests greatly restricted it because eighty to eighty-five percent of the population at this time was illiterate. Therefore, this literacy requirement counteracted the other democratic advances of the \"Savaria Law\".\n\nThe Constitution of the Empire and subsequent laws all failed to deem slaves as citizens. Instead, slaves were still \"excluded from the political community, from exercise of any political right, from all participation in national sovereignty of public authority.\" However, the Constitution did allow \"libertos\"(freed slaves) to vote in elections, provided that they met the property income requirements.\n\nDespite its promise to Britain to abolish the slave trade within three years of its 1827 treaty, Brazil continued to import slaves up until the 1850s. It was only after economic and political conditions permitted, that government initiatives were undertaken to abolish the slavery\n\nNovember 1866: immersed in the Paraguayan War and anxious to recruit troops, an Imperial Government decree permits slaves to serve in the Brazilian army, and in return would be granted their freedom unconditionally.\n\nIn 1871, the Law of the Free Womb was passed, which declared that all children subsequently born to slave mothers would be free. A loop hole allowed the master to refuse the government indemnity payment offered for the child at age 8, and thus, retain the child until 21. The children of slaves who were freed at the age of eight were turned over to the Imperial government and entitled to learn how to read and write in government institutions or through private tutors. However, the masters who opted to retain the children had no obligation to educate them. This had the effect of excluding them from formal political participation, after their freedom, because of their illiteracy.\n\nIn 1885, the Sexagenarian Law was passed. This unconditionally freed slaves over sixty.\n\nOn May 13, 1888, Princess Isabel, acting in place of her ailing father Pedro II, signed the law that abolished slavery in Brazil, granting no compensation to slave owners. This freed 700,000 slaves.\n\nThe entire executive branch (president, state governor, and municipal prefeito) as well as the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, state assemblies and municipal councils were all elected. However, fraud, intimidation, violence and the exercise of patronage by local landowners and agents of the grown was widespread. The presidential elections of this period were predetermined by state governors, and state elections were dominated by the Republican parties. Despite this, and the limitations remaining of suffrage, the early years of the Republic did allow for a substantial advance in direct popular participation in comparison with the late empire.\n\nThe revolution of 1930 effectively ended the Old Republic, and brought Getúlio Vargas to power. He undertook a policy which sought to increase political incorporation within Brazil. Rather than focus on extending political and economic rights, Vargas focused on the expansion of social rights in an attempt to control the process of economic growth and modernization.\n\nA 1931 electoral law lowered the voting age to eighteen and granted woman the right to vote, making Brazil the second country in Americas to do so. By 1933, the first woman had been elected to the Constituent Assembly.\n\nThe 1934 Social Charter in the Constitution guaranteed social rights to certain occupations, while neglecting rural labor and certain urban occupations. This resulted in a hierarchy of citizenship categories based on occupational prestige, defined along the lines of unequal welfare benefits.\n\nThe social rights guaranteed in this charter were closely tied to the urban labor market. In order to be entitled to health assistance, retirement funds and other welfare benefits it required one to be entered in a formal job contract. This form of regulated citizenship emerged from the government's need to control the process of economic growth and modernization. By granting these social rights the government increasingly drew people into the urban labor market, allowing for economic expansion and development. As a result, the state, under Vargas took the lead in promoting nation-building and industrial growth in Brazil.\n\nAfter a 1945 electoral law was passed, men and women who were formally employed were automatically registered to vote. This was an attempt to expand political participation among the urban working class, while still largely neglected the rural population. The same year voting is also made mandatory.\n\nThe Constitution of 1946 still restricted political participation on the basis of literacy, disenfranchising more than half of the population as a result.\n\nAn act of Congress in 1950 restored individual responsibility over voter registration. This restricted the political participation of urban workers, who had previously been automatically registered as a result of their employment.\n\nOne of the key factors responsible for this military coup was the political mobilization of the rural lower classes. This threatened to undermine a tenet central to the government led modernization, the exclusion of the lower rural classes from citizenship. As a result, the military took power, inaugurating twenty-one years of military dictatorship, which would be marked by further involvement of the state in economic development and political repression.\n\nTo extend political incorporation the regime tried to generalize access to social rights, first by unifying the welfare system, and also by partially extending social rights to rural laborers. The continuous growth of the labor market helped incorporate people into the citizenship model based on social rights.\n\nThis increasing concentration of populations in urban centers created a strong demand on public goods and services, which was only exacerbated with the economic crisis of the 1980s. Further adding to the situation, the growth of urban employment in the informal economy not only restricted access of social rights to this segment of the population, but weakened the tax basis for the welfare state. Under these circumstances, the minority with secured jobs and access to social rights essentially became a privileged segment of the population. This only increased the political, social, and economic inequality that characterized Brazil.\n\n1985 saw the return of civilian rule following the election of president José Sarney. Following his elections he passed a series of constitutional amendments which extended suffrage; most notably by removing the literacy requirement that restricted votership. The municipal elections of 1985 were the first elections in Brazil based on universal suffrage. The following years the elections of Congress and state governors were also based on universal suffrage. These developments represented an important step towards the institutionalization of democracy in Brazil.\n\nThe promulgation of a new constitution in 1988, marked the formal shift from a military dictatorship to a democracy in Brazil. It was followed in 1989 by the first direct presidential elections in thirty years, and the first presidential elections to be based upon universal suffrage.\n\nIt lifted official barriers to political participation and formally protected political rights. Like the constitutions before it, it denies status privileges and reaffirms the inviolability of private property and equality of all citizens before the law. It also strengthened the \"Afonso Arinos Law.\" Originally passed in 1951, it sought to punish racial discrimination by redefining racist practice as a crime rather than just a misdemeanor. Under the new constitution it went further, denying bail to those convicted of racial or colour prejudice, and stipulating prison sentences.\n\nThe constitution also restricted the power of the military, bolstered individual rights, and implemented means to protect marginalized groups.\n\nPoverty and inequality are persistent in Brazil, largely as a result the legacy of Portuguese colonialism and its dependence on slave labor. The social, economic and political development of Brazil only tended to increase inequality, primarily among the non-white population. \"[It is] clear that the darker a Brazilian, the more likely he [is] to be found at the bottom of the socio-economic scale by every indicator- income, occupation, education [...] subtle but unmistakable discrimination in social relations remain[...] although it has never been codified since the colonial era.\"\n\nDespite the transition from military dictatorship to democracy in Brazil, there remains a discrepancy between formal principles of the state the actualities of democracy in practice. The effects of skin color exemplify this fact, often perpetuating the inequalities that universal citizenship claimed to remove. Within Brazil, a large proportion of the population still lack basic citizenship rights, such as access to education. As a result, new forms of citizenship are developing independent of state control, like the situation in the favelas.\n\nThere is a growing social, political, economic and spatial exclusion of people living in informal urban settlements like favelas. As the state withdraws from providing social services from these areas, family and social networks step in and fill the gap. This caused a growing informalization of political activity among these groups, whereby these citizens identify their participation in the local community as the core feature of citizenship. They have moved them away from the national discourse of rights-based democratic practices as their definition of citizenship, towards one expressed through specific forms of community participation.\n\nSince the time of European colonization, Indians have been marginalized spatially, politically, and economically. During the colonial period, the policy towards Indians was to exterminate them or to contain them in church settlements. From the establishment of the republic on, the state has actively pursued a policy aimed at assimilating these native groups, and integrating them into Brazilian society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53402641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53402641", "title": "History of fair use proposals in Australia", "text": "History of fair use proposals in Australia\n\nThe history of fair-use proposals in Australia is a series of Australian government enquiries into the introduction of a \"flexible and open\" \"fair use\" system into Australian copyright law. Between 1998 and 2016, eight enquiries examined, and in most cases recommended, the introduction of fair use in place of the current \"fair dealing\" system which allows copyrighted material to be used only if it meets one of four specific purposes as set out in the Act. \n\nA change to a fair-use system would allow copyright material to be used \"without\" the copyright owner's consent in any circumstances where the use is fair, as judged against four \"fairness factors\". A re-user need only address the four fairness factors proposed by the Australian Law Reform Commission and Productivity Commission, which are:\nProponents of the proposed fair-use system describe it as a system which would \"...maximise the net benefit to the community\", reinforce that \"user interests should also be recognised by Australia’s copyright system\", and that without it, \"...the Australian copyright system will always have gaps, always be trying to catch up with new technologies and behaviours.\" They further argue that fair dealing is \"too limited and prescriptive in nature\". Similar fair use systems are also used in countries including Israel, Singapore, South Korea, and Poland.\n\nOpponents of the proposed fair-use system say that it would introduce \"significant and unnecessary uncertainty into Australian law” and that it is \"an American legal principle that has enabled large enterprises in the US to use copyright material for free\". The Motion Picture Association of America considers its potential introduction of in Australia to be a notable \"foreign trade barrier\" despite proactively supporting the existence of the fair use doctrine in the USA through legal action as \"...our members rely on the fair use doctrine every day when producing their movies and television shows\".\n\nThe copyright exception system – either fair use or fair dealing – is unrelated to parallel import restrictions, or the duration of the copyright term, although the three are often conflated in public debates.\n\nCurrently (2017) Australia has a purpose-based approach to exceptions, called \"fair dealing\". The system contains an explicit list of \"technical bespoke copyright exceptions\" which means the use of copyrighted material \"without\" the specific consent of the copyright-holder is only allowed if the proposed use is one of a number of specific purposes listed in the Australian Copyright Act. The primary purpose-based exceptions are the fair dealing exceptions for:\nA number of specific exceptions cover uses such as:\nOther than in Australia, in 2017 \"Fair Dealing\" is used in countries including the UK, New Zealand and Canada.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2017 there have been eight Australian government inquiries which have considered the question of whether fair use should be adopted in Australia. Six reviews have recommended Australia adopt a \"fair use\" model of copyright exceptions: two inquiries specifically into the Copyright Act (1998, 2014); and four broader reviews (both 2004, 2013, 2016). One review (2000) recommended against the introduction of fair use and another (2005) issued no final report. \n\nBoth reports from 2004 were in response to the signing of the Australia–United States Free Trade Agreement (AUSFTA). The AUSFTA's Intellectual Property chapter purported to align Australian copyright law with that of the United States. In doing so, it introduced a number of measures that extended the rights of copyright holders, or as some described them: \"the harsher measures of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act 1998 (US) and the Sonny Bono Copyright Extension Act 1998 (US)\". However, Australia did not simultaneously adopt \"balancing\" features of the United States law which provided rights to copyright users, \"such as the higher standard of originality or the open-ended fair use defence of United States law\". leaving some media reports to wonder \"Why did we gain the restrictions of US copyright law but not the rights?\"\n\nIn response, the two Parliamentary committees tasked with reviewing the AUSFTA implementation recommended that Australia should introduce fair use, \"to counter the effects of the extension of copyright protection\". They noted that \"the application of a broad, open-ended 'fair use' doctrine, similar to that in the United States, may ... assist in legitimising several commonplace actions undertaken regularly by Australians perhaps unaware that they are infringing copyright.\" Although the Committees' recommendations on fair use were not adopted, new exceptions were introduced in the Copyright Amendment Act 2006 to cover some of these \"commonplace actions\" such as time shifting, format shifting, and a new fair dealing for \"parody and satire\". In introducing the bill to Parliament, the Attorney-General Philip Ruddock stated that \"This will provide some of the benefits that the fair use doctrine provides in the United States under their law.\"\n\nWhile noting that \"Nothing in the AUSFTA would prevent Australia from implementing legislation to raise the level of originality and to introduce a 'fair use' defence to copyright infringement\", the committee understood that IP collecting societies (including Viscopy, CAL, and ARIA) \"oppose any move to adopt a 'fair use' defence\" on the basis that the introduction of a foreign legal concept would \"have many additional implications for Australian law\", was \"an unjustified abrogation of the rights of copyright owners\" and would \"significantly increase enforcement difficulties\".\n\nIn 2012 the Attorney-General of Australia, Hon. Nicola Roxon referred \"the matter of whether the exceptions and statutory licences in the Copyright Act 1968, are adequate and appropriate in the digital environment\" to the Australian Law Reform Commission (ALRC) for investigation. After an 18-month review, it recommended the introduction of fair use as it \"would streamline our current hotch-potch copyright laws, which aren't designed to cope with the rapid pace of technological change.\" Alongside the broad fair use exception, the ALRC proposed the inclusion of a \"non-exhaustive list of illustrative uses or purposes that may qualify as fair use\" arging that this, and that the fact that fair use has been in operation in the USA – the world's largest cultural-exporter – for 35 years, would alleviate concerns that Fair use would introduce too much uncertainty for copyright hoders. The Australian University sector, in particular, expressed its support for this proposal.\n\nSeparate but parallel to the review by the ALRC, in 2013 Greens Senator Scott Ludlam introduced a \"catch-all\" fair use bill to parliament. As it was not a government bill, and did not proceed to a vote, it lapsed in November of that year on the day of the installation of the new parliament following the 2013 federal election. Consumer affairs organisation Choice also ran a campaign in support of the ALRC recommendations.\n\nIn 2015, the Productivity Commission (PC) was tasked by the then Treasurer, Joe Hockey, with investigating whether the \"current [Australian Intellectual Property] arrangements provide an appropriate balance between access to ideas and products, and encouraging innovation, investment and the production of creative works\". Its conclusions, published in December 2016, \"reignited the copyright wars\" in Australia by recommending, among other things, the introduction of fair use and the removal of parallel import restrictions (PIRs), also referred to as \"territorial copyright\", on books. A formal response from the government to the report is expected in mid-2017.\n\nIn the public debate, the PC's fair use recommendation has been conflated with a number of other aspects of the report. These include the parallel importation recommendation and references to the potential benefits of a significantly shorter copyright term of \"15–25 years\". Although the PC did not actually recommend such a reduction in either its draft or final reports, and acknowledged that it was not possible under Australia's international obligations, a number of celebrated Australian authors, including Jackie French and Anna Funder, argued publicly against a reduction in the duration of copyright in Australia. Tom Keneally, speaking at the Australian book industry awards in May 2016, stated \"The federal government proposes to do something neither the Brits nor Americans propose to do [to] their writers: to slice Australian authors’ copyright to 15–25 years after publication.\" This prompted the relevant Minister, Mitch Fifield, to reject these claims stating that a reduction of the copyright term \"is not something the Government has considered, proposed or intends to do\", and moreover that due to its involvement in a range of free trade agreements, Australia \"...has no unilateral capacity to alter copyright terms.\" \n\nThe PC's fair use recommendation has, however, also been strongly objected to in its own rights. One major criticism raised by rights holder representatives is concerns about its potential to reduce royalties paid by Australian schools. Under the current model, a statutory licence is negotiated, resulting in a payment administered by Copyright Agency Ltd (CAL) that \"equates to about $17 per school student per year or about $30 per tertiary student\". Without this payment to authors CAL argues that \"there would be less Australian content on our screens, on our bookshelves and in our schools and universities.\" On the other hand, the National Copyright Unit representing schools and TAFEs contend that a large portion of this payment relates either to material the author of which cannot be identified, or for materials for which royalty payments are not intended or appropriate. For example, in 2011 they noted that \"openly available webpages made up 81.4% of the total web and non web digital materials that were paid for,\" (including Google Maps and dictionary.com) which resulted in the payment of millions of dollars for activities that would in other countries be considered as not appropriate for remuneration. In May 2017 Wikipedia displayed banners to Australian readers in support of the Productivity Commission's recommendation.\n\nIn August 2017 the government published its official response to the PC recommendations and, with regards to the specific recommendation to introduce Fair Use, stated that it \"notes this recommendation and will further consult\" in early 2018. The government's response was \"welcomed\" by organisations supporting \"and\" opposing the recommendation. \n\nIn April 2017 it was revealed that CAL had \"been diverting payments\" valued at $15.5 million AUD – obtained between 2013 and 2016 from orphan works under the educational licensing scheme – to a \"fighting fund\", which it called the Future Fund, to lobby against fair use, instead of distributing it to authors. In acknowledging the existence of the fund, CAL stated it would be used to \"...run any legal cases that would arise as a result of changes in legislation, and cover operating costs while the law remained unsettled and where there had been a reduction in licence fees\". Universities Australia argued it was \"ironic\" to fund a campaign against fair use with money obtained through orphan works: “This just goes to show that Australian authors wouldn’t be harmed if universities and schools could rely on a fair-use exception for copying orphan works...If Australia had a fair-use exception, this money would never have been collected in the first place.” Kim Williams, chair of CAL, responded that “The reason for provisioning this money is simple: any board that does not prudently provision for the risk of a calamitous regulatory change … would be guilty of extreme negligence.”\n\nOver the course of the various public inquiries, many example use-cases for where fair use would be applicable have been proposed. In some circumstances (such as time shifting) the use-case has been incorporated as a new exception under fair dealing, but in most instances the situation remains unchanged. Some most commonly raised examples of currently-illegal or paid-for activities which would fall under fair use include:\n"}
{"id": "3313367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3313367", "title": "Independent media", "text": "Independent media\n\nIndependent media refers to any form of media, such as radio, television, newspapers or the Internet, that is free of influence by government or corporate interests. The term has varied applications. Within the United States and other developed countries, it is often used synonymously with alternative media to refer to media that specifically distinguish themselves in relation to the mainstream media. In international development, the term independent media is used in relation to the development of new media outlets, particularly in areas where there is little to no existing media presence.\n\nIn developed countries, alternative media are media that are alternatives to the business or government-owned mass media. Proponents of alternative media argue that the mainstream media are biased. While sources of alternative media can also be biased (sometimes proudly so), the bias tends to be significantly different than that of the mainstream media, hence \"alternative\". As such, advocacy journalism tends to be a component of many alternative outlets. Because the term \"alternative\" has connotations of self-marginalization, some media outlets now prefer the term \"independent\" over \"alternative\". An independent media means that no one should control and influence its coverage of news.\n\nIn many developing countries, the only media available, particularly at the national level, are government-controlled radio and television stations and newspapers. Even if not overtly controlled by the state, outlets may have strong ties to or be influenced by the government. In such situations, it is often difficult to distinguish those outlets that are truly independent from those that are influenced by the government. For example, a newspaper may provide quality, unbiased coverage of the economy, health, and other issues, but still avoid reporting on the government. This issue is particularly compounded by issues of self-censorship, soft censorship, and other subtle government influences.\n\nSelf-censorship is the act of censoring or classifying one's own work out of fear of or deference to the sensibilities of others without an authority directly pressuring one to do so. Self-censorship is often practiced by film producers, film directors, publishers, news anchors, journalists, musicians, and other kinds of authors. In authoritarian countries, creators of artworks may remove material that their government might find controversial for fear of sanction by their governments. In pluralistic capitalist countries, self-censorship can also occur, particularly in order to conform to the expectations of the market. For example, the editor of a periodical may consciously or unconsciously avoid topics that will anger advertisers or the publication's parent company in order to protect their livelihood.\n\nSoft, or indirect, censorship is the practice of influencing news coverage by applying financial pressure on media companies that are deemed critical of a government or its policies and rewarding media outlets and individual journalists who are seen as friendly to the government. This problem goes largely unnoticed, yet can have a dramatic impact on the reporting of media outlets that can otherwise be considered independent.\n\nMany organizations engage in efforts to help the development of free and independent media in countries around the world. These efforts can take many forms, from funding the establishment of an entirely new media outlet to assisting an existing outlet in improving its professional capacity. Common efforts at independent media development include: journalist training and education; improving the legal environment for media; efforts to improve the sustainability of existing outlets; media literacy training; digital media training and integration; infrastructure development; and monitoring and evaluation efforts.\n\nSome development organizations and experts make a distinction between media development and media for development. \"Media development\" refers to efforts to directly improve the media in a society through the means mentioned above. \"Media for development\" refers to more indirect efforts at using existing media to convey messages about specific development issues. Such efforts include many ICT for Development (ICT4D) projects. Media for development has been applied to education, healthcare, business, disaster relief, corruption, minority empowerment, and local community engagement, among other development goals.\n\nWhile development of the media sector is a common activity of many development organizations, there are a small number that engage in direct media development as their primary purpose. In the U.S., the three main media development implementers are Internews, International Center for Journalists (ICFJ), and International Research & Exchanges Board (IREX). In addition, organizations like the Center for International Media Assistance, Reporters Without Borders, Article 19, and others monitor media development efforts and freedom of the press around the world.\n"}
{"id": "1586516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1586516", "title": "Index of tort articles", "text": "Index of tort articles\n\nBelow is an alphabetical list of articles related to tort law.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12059344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12059344", "title": "Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1894", "text": "Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1894\n\nThe Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1894 was a piece of industrial relations legislation passed by the Parliament of New Zealand in 1894. Enacted by the Liberal Government of New Zealand, it was the world's first compulsory system of state arbitration. It gave legal recognition to unions and enabled them to take disputes to a Conciliation Board, consisting of members elected by employers and workers. If the Board's decision was unsatisfactory to either side, an appeal could be made to the Arbitration Court, consisting of a Supreme Court judge and two assessors, one elected by employers' associations and another by unions. The 1966 Encyclopaedia of New Zealand stated that: \"After some 70 years of operation, the industrial conciliation and arbitration system has become a firmly accepted – perhaps even a traditional – way of determining minimum wage rates and handling industrial disputes. It has been subject to many criticisms from time to time, and occasionally to heavier sectional attacks, but no suggestion for its abolition has ever succeeded in gaining any significant measure of support from the employers' and workers' organisations... or from the community generally.\" The Act remained in force until 1973, but the essential structure it established was current until the Fourth National Government introduced the Employment Contracts Act 1991\n\nThe process by which the Act came into being needs study in its own right. It is based on a scheme devised by a South Australian politician, Charles Kingston.\n\nRegistration of unions under the Act was voluntary, and unions could choose to remain outside the Act and negotiate directly with employers. If a union registered it was bound to comply with the rulings of the Arbitration Court and could not, for example, strike against terms laid down by it. As a result, in the early 20th century, some militant and/or strong unions chose not to register. However most unions and their members benefitted from the Act, as few had the power to directly negotiate terms better than those laid down by the Court. The Act forbade the registration of unions where one already existed in the same industry and area. This prevented competition among unions. The Court was also able to make 'awards' which bound all employers and workers in a particular industry, and set down minimum conditions and rates of pay, although organisations not party to the original award could apply for a complete or partial exemption from the award.\n\nThe First Labour Government's 1936 amendment had two major provisions: the 40-hour week and compulsory unionism. Awards could not require more than 40 hours work a week, not counting overtime, and this was to be arranged, where possible, so that no part of the working week fell on a Saturday. Exemptions could be made if a 40-hour week was impractical, but this rarely occurred. The amendment also made it illegal to employ a worker who was not a member of a union bound by the relevant award or agreement for that industry.\n\nThe 1961 amendment, passed by the Second National Government abolished compulsory unionism. However membership continued to be compulsory when unions and employers agreed that it should be, or if 50% of relevant workers voted for compulsory unionism in their industry. Even in cases where compulsory unionism did not remain in force, employers were still required to prefer union members if they were equally qualified to non-union workers. Hence the amendment had little practical impact.\n"}
{"id": "45586714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45586714", "title": "Ius Laboris", "text": "Ius Laboris\n\nIus Laboris is an international law firm network specializing in issues relating to employment law, employee benefits, and pensions. As of 2015, the network had over 1,400 HR lawyers based in around 50 countries across Europe, the Americas, the Middle East, and Asia.\n\nIus Laboris specialises in the area of employment law. It was established in 2001 by a group of labor and employment lawyers from Belgium, France, Spain, Luxembourg, and Italy. As of 2015, the network had 1,400 HR lawyers based in 49 countries throughout more than 160 cities as part of a networked alliance that assists multinational businesses to devise standardised HR policies with the flexibility to meet legal requirements in different countries. Members of the network offer legal advice on employment laws and culture in their respective countries in individual employment rights, pensions, discrimination, restructuring, compensation and benefits, and occupational health and safety.\n\nLabour and Employee Benefits: Super League 2011 \n\nEmployment and Employee Benefits: Super League 2012 \n\nMost Innovative Law Firms in Client Service 2014 \n\nElite Band Alliance (2015) \n\nShortlisted for Global Network of the Year 2016 \n\n"}
{"id": "28964349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28964349", "title": "Judicial panel", "text": "Judicial panel\n\nA judicial panel is a set of judges who sit together to hear a cause of action, most frequently an appeal from a ruling of a trial court judge. Panels are used in contrast to single-judge appeals, and hearings, which involves all of the judges of that court. Most national supreme courts sit as panels.\n\nIn the United States, most federal appellate cases are heard by three-judge panels. The governing statute, 28 U.S.C. § 46(c), provides:\n\nCases and controversies shall be heard and determined by a court or panel of not more than three judges (except that the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit may sit in panels of more than three judges if its rules so provide), unless a hearing or rehearing before the court is ordered by a majority of the circuit judges of the circuit who are in regular active service.\n\nMost trials in the United States District Courts are held before a single judge, but there are some circumstances where the trial itself is required to be held before a three judge panel. For example, 28 U. S. C. § 2284(a) states:\n\nA district court of three judges shall be convened when otherwise required by Act of Congress, or when an action is filed challenging the constitutionality of the apportionment of congressional districts or the apportionment of any statewide legislative body.\n\nUntil 1976, three-judge panels heard lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of state and federal statutes, but this practice has largely ended, the major exceptions being apportionment and redistricting cases.\n\nTypically, if the chief judge is a member of the panel, that person will chair the panel and call hearings to order; if the chief judge is not on the panel, this duty falls to the senior-most judge. Following oral arguments, the judges will meet briefly to confer and determine what the likely majority opinion in the case will be. If the judge who chairs the panel is in the majority at this time, that judge may assign the writing of the opinion for that case.\n\nSome bodies, such as the British leasehold valuation tribunal, may have judicial functions carried out by a single member. Although most cases consists of a panel of three; one with a background in property law (generally a solicitor); one with a background in property valuation generally a qualified surveyor; and a layman.\n"}
{"id": "26810395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26810395", "title": "Kenyan constitutional referendum, 2010", "text": "Kenyan constitutional referendum, 2010\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Kenya on 4 August 2010. Voters were asked whether they approved of a proposed new constitution, which had been passed by the National Assembly on 1 April 2010. The new constitution was seen as a vital step to avoid a repetition of the violent outbursts after the 2007 general elections.\n\nThe result was a victory for the \"Yes\" campaign, with 68.6% of voters approving the constitution. The \"No\" campaign's main spokesman, Higher Education Minister William Ruto, conceded defeat. The new constitution came into force on 27 August.\n\nThe 1963 constitution was replaced by a new constitution in 1969. This was amended on several occasions, including a 1982 amendment that led to a coup attempt. The amendment saw the addition of a section 2A to the constitution, making Kenya a single-party state under President Daniel arap Moi. Following protests in the late 1980s, section 2A was repealed in 1991, establishing the multi-party state, and the Constitution has existed unmodified since then. Although this was seen as a step forward, the country retained a reputation for corruption and many Kenyans desired a completely revised document. This came a step closer to reality in 1998 when a law was passed in parliament calling for a review of the constitution. However, little was done to effect this during the remaining years of Moi's administration.\n\nIn the run-up to his victory in the 2002 general elections, President Mwai Kibaki made constitutional reform and the anti-corruption drive a key priority. Despite promises to conduct a review early in the parliament, the new government continued to drag its feet. This was due mainly to the presence of senior officials from the previous regime, whose defection had been vital to Kibaki's election success, but who were ultimately unwilling to risk upsetting the status quo. Eventually, in 2004, a proposed new constitution known as the Bomas draft was released. This proposed wide-reaching changes to the structure of government, including the transfer of some powers from the President to a newly created post of Prime Minister. Fearing the loss of power, senior government figures watered down the Bomas draft, leading to widespread opposition, civil unrest and the resignation of several senior members of Kibaki's coalition. The revised document was presented to the people in the November 2005 constitutional referendum, and was defeated.\n\nFollowing the referendum, politicians that had campaigned against the draft united to form a new party in opposition, known as the Orange Democratic Movement, after the symbol of an orange, which had been present on the referendum ballot papers to signify a \"no\" vote. Despite splits, the party appeared to be in a strong position going into the 2007 presidential election, but was ultimately defeated in controversial circumstances, leading to the violence of the 2007–2008 Kenyan crisis. The peace deal that ended the crisis mandated that the constitutional question be revisited, which led in November 2009 to a new draft. After minor modifications and the passage of the draft through parliament, the referendum date was set for 4 August 2010.\n\nThe referendum question was announced on 13 May 2010:\nVoter's choices in response to this question were \"Yes\" or \"No\". Due to high rates of illiteracy in the country, the law required that each response was accompanied by a visual symbol to ensure voters were aware of which choice they were making. The symbols chosen for this referendum were colours: green for \"Yes\" and red for \"No\".\n\nTo be passed, the referendum required a simple majority overall and at least 25% of votes in five of Kenya's eight provinces.\n\nMost senior figures in the coalition government were supporters of the \"Yes\" campaign, including President Mwai Kibaki, Prime Minister Raila Odinga, Vice-President Kalonzo Musyoka and both deputy Prime Ministers, Musalia Mudavadi and Uhuru Kenyatta. The notable exceptions to this were Minister for Higher Education, William Ruto and Minister for Information, Samuel Poghisio, who led the \"No\" campaign along with former president Daniel arap Moi. These politicians felt the new law would not be good for Kenyans, arguing that the President would still retain excessive powers and that the provisions on land ownership were anti-capitalist.\n\nThe other major source of opposition to the constitution came from the Christian churches, who feared it would lead to the legalisation of abortion, due to a clause permitting abortion for maternal health reasons. The other clause considered contentious by the church was the inclusion of Kadhi courts for settling some civil issues relating to Muslim citizens. Although these courts have been present since pre-colonial times, they were not previously enshrined in the Constitution.\n\nThe run-up to the referendum was largely peaceful, although there were isolated incidents of violence, such as when six people were killed and many more injured in June 2010, in a bomb attack on a rally for the \"No\" campaign in Nairobi. The Uchaguzi organisation was established to monitor the referendum.\n\nThe vote took place amid tight security to avoid a repeat of the previous elections' aftermath. There were particular worries in the Rift Valley Province, where tensions between Kalenjin and Kikuyu populations had caused the worst of the 2007 violence. The vote eventually passed off peacefully, with no reports of violence.\n\nOpinion polls taken between April and July 2010 showed a consistent lead for the \"Yes\" campaign, with support ranging between 49% and 64%, compared to a range of 17% — 22% for the \"No\" campaign.\n\nThe result was a victory for the \"Yes\" campaign, with 69% in favour and 31% against on a turnout of 72.2%. Most areas of the country voted in favour of the Constitution, with the notable exception of the Rift Valley Province, where the majority of voters followed the advice of local leaders William Ruto and Daniel arap Moi in voting against. The only area that failed to vote overwhelmingly as predicted was the Ukambani area of the lower Eastern Province, where the \"Yes\" camp recorded only a very narrow victory despite support from local leaders Kalonzo Musyoka and Charity Ngilu.\n\nThe result was generally welcomed by the international community, with messages of congratulations to the government and people of Kenya from, amongst others, US President Barack Obama, former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan and the leaders of other African Great Lakes nations.\n\nAs required by the law mandating the referendum, the new Constitution was formally promulgated in a ceremony on 27 August 2010 by President Kibaki. This historic occasion was attended by foreign leaders and dignitaries from Africa and all over the world.\n"}
{"id": "507071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=507071", "title": "Leave of absence", "text": "Leave of absence\n\nA leave of absence (LOA) is a period of time that one must be away from one's primary job, while maintaining the status of employee. The term may be used more restrictively to exclude other periods away from the workplace (e.g., vacations, paid time off, holidays, hiatuses, sabbaticals, working from home programs), with LOA used for exceptional circumstances; generally, such an arrangement has a predefined termination at a particular date or after a certain event has occurred. \n\nGenerally, paid leaves of absence are given at the request of the employer, or per some statutory or contractual requirement. Some examples of generally paid LOA include employee injury on the job, bereavement, jury duty, or if the employer is performing repairs or other activities in the building where the employee normally works which prevents them from performing their duties.\n\nUnpaid LOAs are generally at the request of the employee or as a result of suspected misconduct on the part of the employee. A leave of absence may be obtained for a variety of employee-requested reasons, including active duty call-ups for reserve military personnel, or to attend to the health needs of the employee or of a family member of the employee.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, it is up to the employer's discretion as to whether or not an employee's request for a leave of absence is approved. In the United States, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 defines certain circumstances under which approval of a leave of absence is compulsory. Additionally, the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA) dictates certain circumstances under which a LOA must be granted.\n\nDuring periods of time where the employer's market is sluggish, some employers offer certain classes of employees an opportunity to take an unpaid leave of absence as extra vacation time, in an effort to temporarily reduce operating expenses without the complications of performing a layoff, and potentially losing critical employees permanently. Such a period is referred to as a \"leave of absence in lieu of layoff\".\n\nIn academia, \"unpaid leave of absence\" has no negative connotation. It is used to give the opportunity to a professor or staff member to assume a non-conflicting position (e.g., political position) without losing his/her original affiliation.\n\nGenerally, continuation of certain benefits, such as medical insurance, is maintained. Other benefits such as Life Insurance normally require the employee to pay the premium in order to be continued during the LOA.\n\nFor those benefits that are based on an employee's time in his/ her job, the period of the absence may be included in the tallies of consecutive service for certain benefits. If the time is not included, it is simply omitted from the tally, but not considered a \"break\" in service.\n\nIn India, a Government service holder under the Union Government or any Provincial (State) Government can avail the following types of leave of absence during the service period:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19308901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19308901", "title": "Legislative system of China", "text": "Legislative system of China\n\nThe legislative system of China may either refer to the system of laws and regulations generated in China's legal system or more narrowly the system of formulation of such codes by institutions, such as the main legislative body the National People's Congress (unicameral parliament). \n\nThere are two main legislative-making organs, the National People's Congress and its Standing Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "22566558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22566558", "title": "List of law enforcement agencies in Germany", "text": "List of law enforcement agencies in Germany\n\nLaw enforcement in Germany is conducted by federal, state and municipal law enforcement agencies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38917439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38917439", "title": "List of plain English words and phrases", "text": "List of plain English words and phrases\n\nThis is a list of plain English words and phrases and the longer, more cumbersome words they can replace. The problem word is listed \"first\"; the plain English alternative follows.\n\nPlain English (or plain language) is communication in English that emphasizes clarity and brevity, and avoids technical language—particularly in official government or business communication. It uses simple, familiar words instead of lengthy, formal words, avoids jargon, prefers positive words to negative words, and prefers strong verbs to \"be\" verbs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36994254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36994254", "title": "Mediterranean Monk Seal Memorandum of Understanding", "text": "Mediterranean Monk Seal Memorandum of Understanding\n\nThe Memorandum of Understanding concerning Conservation Measures for the Eastern Atlantic Populations of the Mediterranean Monk Seal is a multilateral environmental memorandum of understanding (MoU) and entered into effect on 18 October 2007, under the auspices of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS), also known as the Bonn Convention. It focuses on the protection of the eastern Atlantic populations of the Mediterranean monk seal. The MoU covers four range states (Mauritania, Morocco, Portugal and Spain), all of which have signed.\n\nRecalling that the Mediterranean monk seal (\"Monachus monachus\") is included in both Appendix I and II of CMS, thus highlighting the need for concerted action and international cooperation among the range states and noting the important ecological role the monk seal plays, an Article IV agreement was signed in Adeje, Tenerife, Spain on 18 October 2007, in the margins of the CMS meeting on Western African Talks on Cetaceans and their Habitats (WATCH) and came into effect immediately. The agreement is open for signature to all the Atlantic range states.\n\nSignatories to the Mediterranean Monk Seal MoU:\n\nIn addition, the CMS Secretariat also signed the MoU (18 October 2007).\n\nThe MoU is a significant step towards improving the conservation status and the habitat of the eastern Atlantic monk seal throughout its range in cooperation with the four signatories. It aims at providing a legal and institutional framework for the implementation of the Action Plan for the Recovery of the Mediterranean Monk Seal in the Eastern Atlantic.\n\nThe MoU covers the eastern Atlantic populations of the Mediterranean monk seal as one of the most threatened marine mammals in the world and listed as critically endangered on the IUCN Red List. It is estimated that only 500 specimens remain in the wild. The main threats to the seals are entanglement and mortality in fishing gear, overfishing and direct persecution form humans as well as natural factors like toxic phytoplankton and the deterioration of breeding sites, such as collapsing caves roofs. The isolation of the small remaining populations – experts believe that the two colonies (one on Madeira and the other on the Cabo Blanco peninsula) do not interbreed – means that the species’ survival is precariously balanced.\n\nRecognizing that the Mediterranean monk seal is one of the most threatened animals in the world and understanding that the species performs long movements, which makes the survival of the individuals dependent upon the conservation of habitats in the coastal and marine area of all the range states, the signatories decide to work closely together to improve the conservation status of the species and its crucial habitat throughout its range. To this end they will, individually or collectively:\n\nThe MoU came into effect immediately (18 October 2007) and will remain in effect indefinitely subject to the right of any signatory to terminate its participation by providing one year’s written notice to all of the other signatories.\n\nThe text of the MoU states that the Action Plan will include measure to:\n\nThe Action Plan was prepared by the Monk Seal Working Group and approved at the Eighth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties, held in Nairobi, Kenya, November 2005. The plan provides a new focus for monk seal conservation by specifying the commitment of the countries in the species’ distribution range. It lays down the procedures to implement coordinated actions among the signatories, providing a means to combine programmes initiated by different national, local and private organizations. The immediate priority is to arrest the decline of the population and then move to promote the species’ recovery. One of the major features of the plan is the proposal to create a network of Special Areas of Conservation for the Monk Seal (SACMS) to help restore populations.\n\nA Monk Seal Working Group composed of representatives of the four signatory states has been operational since the inception of the MoU and oversees and guides activities undertaken under the MoU and Action Plan. The operation of the Working Group has been financially supported by the Government of Spain, with technical support provided by the Spanish NGO Fundación CBD-Habitat. A meeting of the Working Group in Mauritania in November 2009 agreed some necessary actions, including the identification of relevant competent authorities for the implementation of the MoU, sources of technical advice and options for funding.\n\nThe CMS Secretariat – located in Bonn, Germany – provides the secretary functions.\n\nIn the framework of the Action Plan, a Nature Reserve was created in the Desertas Islands in the Madeira archipelago. This reserve was crucial in increasing the number of monk seals from 6–8 individuals in the 1980s to 25–30 in 2009. Furthermore, the establishment of a no-fishing zone and the elimination of disturbances in the vicinity of breeding grounds have helped raise the number of monk seals in the Cabo Blanco Peninsula from 100 to 200 in the 1997-2009 period.\n\nIn 2009 an event of great symbolic and conservation importance took place in the Cabo Blanco Mediterranean Mons seal colony. A pup was born on an open beach. The newborn pup was discovered by the reserve’s monk seal patrol of the CBD-Habitat Foundation. It is the first record of such an event since the 15th century.\n\nIn December 2010, scientist found a colony of rare Mediterranean monk seals at an undisclosed location in Greece.\n\nIn March 2011, conservationists rescued a two-month-old Mediterranean monk seal. The seal was later on released in the region of the Alonnisos Marine Park of the Northern Sporades island complex, from where he will begin his journey through the Greek seas.\n\n"}
{"id": "57782660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57782660", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Palestine)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Palestine)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of Palestine was established in 1994 after the end of the Israeli occupation and the arrival of the Palestinian National Authority. The ministry aims to meet societal needs by establishing the rules of justice, equality and order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25064453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25064453", "title": "Ministry of Justice (premodern Japan)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (premodern Japan)\n\nThe was a division of the eighth century Japanese government of the Imperial Court in Kyoto, instituted in the Asuka period and formalized during the Heian period. The Ministry was replaced in the Meiji period.\n\nThe nature of the ministry was modified in response to changing times. The ambit of the \"Gyōbu-shō\" activities encompassed, for example:\n\nThe duties, responsibilities and focus of the ministry evolved over time. The \"ritsuryō\" system of laws were interpreted and applied by bureaucracies which distinguished punishment (\"gyōbushō\") and censorship (\"danjodai\"). These were merged in 1871 when the was established under the Constitution of the Empire of Japan.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice brought together a judiciary and penal system management.\n\nThe top ritsuryō officials within this ministry structure were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27380218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27380218", "title": "National Election Board of Ethiopia", "text": "National Election Board of Ethiopia\n\nThe National Election Board of Ethiopia (NEBE) is an autonomous government agency which supervises the national elections of Ethiopia. The NEBE was established by Proclamation number 64/1992, and answers to the House of Peoples' Representatives.\n\nThe NEBE consists of two components: the Board and the Secretariat. According to Article 6 of the amended Proclamation number 532/2006, the Board of the NEBE consists of nine members who are nominated by the Prime Minister and appointed by the House of Peoples' Representatives. These members are selected based on national diversity, and gender representation. The Secretariat is the operational branch of NEBE. The Secretariat is headed by a Chief Executive, and has the responsibility for the preparation and conduct of the electoral process.\n\n"}
{"id": "1584188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1584188", "title": "Novel food", "text": "Novel food\n\nNovel food is defined as a type of food that does not have a significant history of consumption or is produced by a method that has not previously been used for food.\n\nDesigner food is a type of novel food that has not existed on any regional or global consumer market before. Instead it has been \"designed\" using biotechnological / bioengineering methods (e.g. genetically modified food) or \"enhanced\" using engineered additives. Examples like designer egg, designer milk, designer grains, probiotics, and enrichment with micro- and macronutrients and designer proteins have been cited. The enhancement process is called food fortification or nutrification. Designer novel food often comes with—sometimes unproven—health claims (\"superfoods\").\n\nDesigner food must be distinguished from food design, the aesthetic arrangement of food items for marketing purposes.\n\nNovel foods or novel food ingredients have no history of \"significant\" consumption in the European Union prior to 15 May 1997. Any food or food ingredient that falls within this definition must be authorised according to the Novel Food legislation, Regulation (EC) No 258/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council.\n\nApplicants can consult the guidance document compiled by the European Commission, which highlights the scientific information and the safety assessment report required in each case.\n\nThe Novel Food regulation stipulates that foods and food ingredients falling within the scope of this regulation must not:\n\nThere are two possible routes for authorization under the Novel Food legislation: a full application and a simplified application. The simplified application route is only applicable where the EU member national competent authority, e.g. Food Standards Agency (FSA) in the UK, believes that the novel food in question is substantially equivalent to an existing food or food ingredient.\n\nThe UK Food Standards Agency has provided guidance for companies that wish to submit a simplified novel food application.\n\nThere have been a number of products launched as a result of food or food ingredients authorised under the Novel Food legislation. Benecol, containing phytostanols and Flora ProActiv, containing phytosterols are commercially successful products that help to reduce cholesterol levels.\n\nOriginally, the Novel Food legislation was conceived by the European Commission in response to the arrival of food products derived from GM crops. These types of GM derived food are now regulated by separate legislation, Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council.\n\nIn its current format, exotic fruit and vegetables, which have a long history of safe use outside of the European Union, fall within the definition of a novel food. As a consequence, each of these food products must undergo a safety assessment prior to being marketed. This has long been an issue of contention for food manufacturers and producers outside the EU who view this as an economic trade barrier. A good example of this situation can be illustrated with baobab (\"Adansonia digitata\"). This fruit is wild-harvested across Southern Africa and has a long history of use as a food amongst the indigenous tribes in this continent. Nonetheless, Baobab Dried Fruit Pulp required authorisation under the Novel Food legislation before any food products containing this ingredient could be marketed in the EU.\n\nThe Baobab Dried Fruit Pulp novel food application, pioneered by John Wilkinson of Herbal Sciences International, a botanical regulatory consultancy company, together with their client Phytotrade Africa, was also the first successful submission to demonstrate safety without the need for animal testing. Instead, this application used the history of use alongside detailed analyses of the nutritional and phytochemical components in Baobab to demonstrate safety. This has lowered the costs for approval from an average of €10 million to less than €100,000 and thus opened the EU to access non-Western fruits, vegetables and nutraceuticals while at the same time saving unnecessary animal testing.\n\nIn 2008, the European Parliament, European Commission, and Council of the European Union began talks to revise the regulation because it was accepted that essential elements needed to be discussed and resolved.\n\nHowever, the revision came to a standstill on 28 March 2011 when the three Institutions failed to reach agreement at a final conciliation meeting on the issue of cloning. Disagreement centred on the European Parliament being in favour of a total EU market ban on foods from clones and their offspring/descendants, while some members of the Council of the European Union were not in favour as they considered offspring to be bred using normal (or traditional) methods, therefore not falling under the definition of a novel food.\n\nAccording to the European Parliament, it had tried to compromise, backing down on demands for a full ban on food from cloned animals and their descendants, to mandatory labelling of all food products from clones and their offspring as a bare minimum. The Council of the European Union decided that the solution presented by the European Parliament could not be implemented in practice because it would not be in compliance with the international trade rules that the European Union has signed. Unable to move things forward, the Commission gave up the revision process for the time being. \n\nFollowing the 2011 standstill, the Commission decided to table a new proposal in December 2013, limiting its scope to the safety of novel foods, where a general agreement had already been reached in the previous dealing, while deferring the cloning issue to separate legislation. This time, negotiations eventually proved successful, and the new Novel Food Regulation (EC) No. 2015/2283 was finally approved in November 2015, but will enter into force on January 1, 2018 at the latest, following the adoption by the Commission of required implementation acts. Therefore, as of mid-2017, the current novel food regulation, adopted in 1997, still remains in place.\n\nIn Canada, novel foods are regulated under the Novel Foods Regulations. The regulations define novel food as\n\n\nThe Novel Foods Regulation requires that a company wanting to sell a novel food notify Health Canada prior to marketing or advertising the product. Pre-market notification permits Health Canada to conduct a thorough safety assessment of all biotechnology-derived foods to demonstrate that a novel food is safe and nutritious before it is allowed in the Canadian marketplace.\n\nTo date, more than 90 novel foods have been approved for sale in Canada including a number of canola, corn, cottonseed and flax crop lines. Some of the novel traits include herbicide tolerance and pest and disease resistance. In spite of the benefits brought about by the development of novel foods, there are also a number of concerns that have been raised concerning their potential impact on the environment and on human health and safety.\n\nIn 2018 was born DL Novel Food the first startup for the automation of insects livestocks. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38792732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38792732", "title": "Prenda Law", "text": "Prenda Law\n\nPrenda Law, also known as Steele | Hansmeier PLLP and Anti-Piracy Law Group,<ref name=\"TechDirt 12/18/12\"></ref> was a Chicago-based law firm that ostensibly operated by undertaking litigation against copyright infringement, but was later characterized by the United States District Court for Central California in a May 2013 ruling as a \"porno-trolling collective\" whose business model \"relies on deception\", and which resembled most closely a conspiracy and racketeering enterprise, referring in the judgment to RICO, the United States Federal anti-racketeering law. The firm ostensibly dissolved itself in July 2013 shortly after the adverse ruling (although onlookers describe Alpha Law Firm LLC as its apparent replacement), while in 2014, ABA Journal-Law News described the \"Prenda Law saga\" as entering \"legal folklore\".\n\nIn the 2013 civil ruling, Prenda Law, and three named principals, John Steele, Paul Hansmeier, and Paul Duffy, were found to have undertaken vexatious litigation, identity theft, misrepresentation and calculated deception (including \"fraudulent signature\"), professional misconduct and to have shown moral turpitude. The principals were also deemed to have founded and been the \"de facto\" owners and officers of the shell company which plaintiff and their alleged \"client\" created in order to \"give an appearance of legitimacy\". As a result, the firm and its principals were fined; the matter was also referred to the United States Attorney for Central California (for criminal indictment consideration) and the IRS Criminal Investigation Division (for tax fraud consideration). A fourth attorney, Brett Gibbs, was also sanctioned, fined, and referred to a disciplinary committee by the court for false statements and his part in the subsequent cover-up, though described as their employee. (Gibbs' monetary sanctions were later vacated after turning whistleblower as part of his appeal). Subsequently, other Federal courts in different states also ruled in a similar manner against the firm and/or others linked to it, including fraud upon the court ruled in a Minnesota court review of five closed cases and \"relentless willingness to lie\" in an Illinois court, criminal prosecutor referrals also occurred or were suggested in other jurisdictions.\n\nAs described in the ruling and media coverage, the firm's \"modus operandi\" was to threaten individual members of the public with litigation (hence public exposure) over allegations that they breached copyright during pornographic downloads (based, according to the court, on a \"statistical guess\"). The firm would then offer to settle the case (silently) for a little below the cost of an active legal defense, in what was described by the court as an \"extortion payment\". Cases with robust defendants and non-profitable cases were dropped. At times the firm acted for client corporations whose filed papers contained discredited signatures and identities found false by the courts – commenters characterized the firm's plaintiffs as often (though not always) being shell companies operated for the firm and/or attorneys' own benefit a Federal District court described Prenda's principal attorneys in 2013 as \"engaging [a] cloak of shell companies and fraud\", and comments of \"shocking\" and apparent \"shell game activity\" by Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals judges at the inability or refusal to describe relationships between the law firms, \"clients\" and principals, An expert witness affidavit stated that IP addresses linked to Prenda's Minnesota and Florida offices and John Steele, had themselves been identified in 2013 as the initial \"seeders\" (sharers) of some pornographic media, tagged for \"fast\" sharing on file-sharing networks, which would be followed up by threat of legal action, with Prenda as the pornography producer or copyright purchaser, file sharer (offeror), plaintiff, and plaintiff's attorney; the suspect IP, linked to unauthorized media distribution, was confirmed as Steele and Hansmeier's by Comcast. In some cases hacking was alleged, or claims that the defendant was one of hundreds or thousands of \"co-conspirators\" for whom non-party subpoenas and discovery were sought; in one case the defendant testified he was in effect offered an ultimatum to act as a \"sham\" defendant and collusively agree to be sued.\n\nCommentators writing for \"Salon\", \"Law360\", \"JETLaw\" journal, \"Forbes\", \"The Consumerist\", and \"The Register\" described the business as a copyright troll or as \"notorious\" for trolling, while tech website \"Ars Technica\" described the judge as coming at the firm and its principals \"like a tornado\".<ref name=\"ArsTechnica 3/12/13\"></ref>\n\nIn December 2016, Steele and Hansmeier were arrested by federal authorities and charged with 18 counts of running a multimillion-dollar extortion scheme between 2011 and 2014.\n\nOn May 19, 2017, the Illinois Supreme Court disbarred John Steele and six other attorneys. In March 2017, he pleaded guilty to federal charges of conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud and conspiracy to launder money \"from his role in an alleged shakedown scheme allegedly designed to entrap and extract millions of dollars in settlements from those accused of illegally downloading internet porn.\" Steele had been indicted in December 2016 by a grand jury in Minneapolis. He was also subject to disciplinary proceedings before the Illinois Attorney Registration and Disciplinary Commission. As of May 2017, he \"faces eight to 10 years in prison, fines of up to $300,000, and a restitution order for $3 million.\"\n\nPrenda first came to prominence through the practice of identifying the IP addresses of Internet subscribers who, it claims, downloaded copyrighted pornographic videos or \"hacked\" into pornography-related clients. The firm would file copyright infringement lawsuits in federal court, in which it requested \"up front\" early discovery via \"over-broad\" subpoenas against the respective Internet service providers (ISPs), upon sometimes-deceptive grounds and at times with falsified signatures on key documents These discoveries were used to obtain names and addresses of hundreds or even thousands of subscribers said to be infringers or \"co-conspirators\" in some cases.\n\nThe subscribers concerned—who might have had no responsibility for any alleged download due to Prenda's lack of care over innocent targets—were then written to, and accused of copyright infringement or computer misuse, and threatened with over $150,000 in statutory penalties or told of the possibility of higher damages if the matter was decided in court, and that refusal to pay would cause the recipient's name, together with the names of alleged pornographic videos, to be entered on public court documents, publicly exposing the subscribers' supposed pornographic interest and trial for alleged downloading. That is, the recipient would be stigmatized and identified to the public (e.g., to friends, employers, spouse, children, coworkers, etc.) as someone who had illegally downloaded specific pornography titles on the internet, and been sued in court for doing so. At times, what were sometimes seen as veiled threats were also made, that household members, neighbors, and visitors to the household would be formally asked if they had been responsible for the download of the pornographic material on the defendant's network, as part of their investigation, if they continued not to pay. The letters then offered to make the case go away \"silently\" for a fee—$4,000 was the price of silence offered to some. The amount demanded was usually slightly less than a typical attorney would charge to defend the case on its merits (as alluded to in the ruling on \"Ingenuity 13\" (\"below\")), so under the \"American rule\" for legal costs even the completely innocent would have a strong incentive to pay what Los Angeles-based U.S. District Judge Otis D. Wright II called an \"extortion payment\".\n\nAlan Cooper claimed in his 2013 testimony, that an attorney ruled to be one of Prenda's principals had stated to him that \"his goal was $10,000 a day, to have a mailing of these letters. ... [t]hat he would just send out a letter stating that if they didn't send a check for a certain amount, that he would make it public to these people's family and friends what they were looking at\".\n\nIt was later testified and ruled in various courts that many (although not all) of the firm's purported \"clients\" or \"plaintiffs\" only appeared to exist as shell companies or \"fronts\" for the principals themselves, and that in effect the principals had been litigating on their own behalf. Signatures and representatives purported to be of clients, were ruled to be falsified, with at least one identity \"stolen\" and one purported \"representative\" excluded from court. In a 2013 Minnesota review of five closed cases, none of the documents used to show standing were ruled to be credible. At times the law firm itself was also alleged to have been behind sharing of previously-undistributed pornography on well-known video \"piracy\" websites – an apparent effort to induce litigable downloading.\n\nThe rewards reaped by what Wright called the \"porno-trolling collective\" ran into the millions. Steele told \"Forbes\" magazine that his firm had filed over 350 lawsuits against more than 20,000 people, resulting in \"a little less than $15 million\" in settlements.<ref name=\"Forbes 10/15/12\"></ref> Brett Gibbs testified in 2013 that based on documents shown to him, the firm's revenue from settlements was around $1.93m in 2012, of which around 80% was ultimately distributed to the principals or their joint companies, rather than purported clients.\n\nIn November 2012, Morgan Pietz was engaged as defense attorney against a case brought by Ingenuity 13, a Prenda \"client\". He stated that, in the course of case preparation, he noticed various anomalies within Prenda's past litigation. In one Florida case (\"Sunlust vs. Nguyen\") decided November 2012, a Prenda employee, Mark Lutz, had also self-identified as the \"representative\" of pornography producer Sunlust Pictures but been unable to describe his principal or the client in any manner, nor state who paid him, and was ultimately excluded from the court case. Additionally when Prenda attorney John Steele visited the court and Lutz kept whispering to him, causing the judge to eventually ask Steele to identify himself, Steele had answered evasively, not disclosing his connection to the firm or the case. The case was dismissed as an \"attempted fraud on the court\", with the court also inviting a motion against Prenda principal Paul Duffy for \"lack of candor\". Pietz described these as \"the first thing [he] started to wonder about\". An attempt to investigate the offshore-registered plaintiff in his case, Ingenuity 13, also suggested that \"someone had something to hide\", as its owners and even the source of its copyrights had been heavily obscured. Pietz further discovered a recent claim in a Minnesota court by a man called Alan Cooper, who stated that his name and signature had been falsely used as owner-of-record for Ingenuity 13 and another Prenda client (a tape recording in which Steele threatened Cooper with litigation was played as evidence in court). Finally, an email dialog between Pietz and Ingenuity 13's attorney Brett Gibbs in which Pietz asked for clarification about the identity of \"Alan Cooper\" and sight of originals of documents certified as having been signed by \"Alan Cooper\", was stonewalled in what court onlookers described as a \"rambling\", \"confused\" and evasive manner. Brett Gibbs had also been one of the Prenda attorneys named in the \"Sunlust\" hearing.\n\nTaken together, the circumstances caused Pietz to question to the court whether the claims and client relationships presented by the plaintiff were truthful, whether the plaintiffs were engaging in a fraud, and to collate and present his research into Prenda and its affiliates that \"detail[ed] mysterious signatures, company addresses that appeared to belong to Steele's family members, and one entity that appeared to be run by a friend of Hansmeier\", and which overall suggested \"possible systemic fraud, perjury, lack of standing, undisclosed financial interests, and improper fee splitting\". The case was heard by Judge Otis Wright, who declined the response to Pietz's defense and ordered Ingenuity 13 to show that the basis of its case, and its manner of identifying alleged offenders, was sufficient to safeguard innocent persons and subscribers from \"simple coercion\" and \"harassment\" (described as \"the easy route\"). Prenda in response tried and failed to get the judge removed and also to sue Cooper for defamation, but also \"conspicuously avoid[ed] direct engagement\" with the more serious counterclaims. Hansmeier eventually testified of one Prenda plaintiff company, that its business was buying copyrights in order to litigate against their downloaders, and that it had never paid any tax. Prenda also sought to end the case by requesting dismissal, which was also declined.\n\nOn February 7, 2013 the court instead ordered plaintiff's attorney Brett Gibbs to attend a hearing, in order to answer questions concerning the firm's conduct in the case. \"More ominously\" according to a legal onlooker, it also stated that \"the Court perceives that Plaintiff may have defrauded the Court\" based on Pietz's evidence, and that based upon testimony presented by and about the plaintiffs at the next hearing, \"the Court will consider whether sanctions are appropriate, and if so, determine the proper punishment. This may include a monetary fine, incarceration, or other sanctions...\" As well as the plaintiffs and Gibbs as their attorney, Steele, Hansmeier and his brother (who acted as a Prenda forensic investigator), Duffy, Lutz, and Cooper were also among those ordered by the court to attend.\n\nOn March 11, 2013, Wright's courtroom manner was described by attorney-blogger and past prosecutor Ken White on \"Popehat\", who had followed the case, as \"a federal judge who was furious, intimately familiar with the case, and consummately prepared for the hearing... [and] made it explicitly, abundantly, frighteningly clear that he believes the principals of Prenda Law have engaged in misconduct – and that he means to get to the bottom of it.\" Alan Cooper testified first, that he had not signed or seen any papers related to Prenda, that \"Alan Cooper\" signatures on documents were not his, that he looked after one of John Steele's houses, and that Steele had stated he wanted to earn \"$10,000 a day\" litigating against downloaders, and that when Cooper had attempted to legally clarify that he was not the signatory of Prenda's documents, Steele began an escalating series of texts and voicemails whose interpretation (to White) clearly appeared to be intimidating Cooper into \"back[ing] off\". AT&T and Verizon, two major ISPs, testified that stays (court orders from other Prenda cases) had been ignored by Prenda and they were kept unaware of their issue. On the topic of Prenda's finances, Wright made clear that he viewed the clients as shams that neither received settlement payments nor paid tax on any settlements, and that Prenda \"basically prosecuted on their own behalf\". Of the four main Prenda attorneys, only Gibbs attended and testified, coming across to White as \"a young attorney out of his depth who fell in with the wrong crowd\", but whose testimony in his own defense was contradicted at the hearing (Gibbs stated that he only had limited involvement in Prenda client \"AF Holdings\" but attorney Jason Sweet in the audience then stated to the court that Gibbs had previously self-identified as AF Holdings \"national counsel\").\n\nOn April 2, 2013, when Steele, Hansmeier and Duffy attended, the scrutiny of the court run by Judge Wright – who had sat on around 45 previous Prenda cases – had therefore long moved to \"getting to the bottom\" of the firm, rather than the specific case, and Wright opened by stating, \"It should be clear by now that this court's focus has now shifted dramatically from the area of protecting intellectual property rights to attorney misconduct[,] such misconduct which I think brings discredit to the profession. That is much more of a concern now to this court than what this litigation initially was about.\" The plaintiffs had also been threatened with imprisonment and the three Prenda attorneys later described as \"principals\" had also appeared. However, the latter then chose to fall back upon their legal right to avoid self-incrimination under the Fifth Amendment, rather than answer questions of fact from the judge about the ownership, operations, and finances, of Prenda and its affiliates. Ken White, who had followed and documented the case, commented on April 2, 2013:\n\nTheir invocation of their Fifth Amendment rights in the face of that order is utterly unprecedented in my experience as a lawyer. In effect, the responsible lawyers for a law firm conducting litigation before a court have refused to explain that litigation to the court on the grounds that doing so could expose them to criminal prosecution. However well grounded in ... individual rights ... the invocation eviscerates their credibility... I expect that defense attorneys will file notice of it in every state and federal case Prenda Law has brought... The message will be stark: the attorneys directing this litigation just took the Fifth rather than answer another judge's questions about their conduct in this litigation campaign.\n\nDespite the ongoing case, by May 30, 2013 according to \"BusinessWeek\", Prenda Law had changed its name to the Anti-Piracy Law Group, and switched its continuing actions to state courts, \"BusinessWeek\" commenting that state court cases are not centrally listed or as easily found compared to Federal court cases.\n\nOn May 6, 2013, Judge Wright sanctioned Prenda Law and its \"principals\" Steele, Hansmeier, and Duffy, along with Gibbs, whom he termed \"attorneys with shattered law practices\", $81,319.72 (of which half was punitive) for \"brazen misconduct and relentless fraud\", \"vexatious litigation\", \"[stealing] the identity of Alan Cooper\", and \"representations about their operations, relationships, and financial interests [that] varied from feigned ignorance to misstatements to outright lies\". Wright also referred the attorneys to the U.S. Attorney's office and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division for possible criminal prosecution; and to various federal and state bars for \"moral turpitude unbecoming of an officer of the court\". He also noted that Steele, Hansmeier, and Duffy had pleaded the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination when questioned.<ref name=\"ArsTechnica 4/2/13\"></ref>\n\nJudge Wright also found that the attorneys \"purposely ignored\" his orders quashing subpoenas to ISPs so that ISPs would be \"unaware of the vacatur and would turn over the requested subscriber information\"; and had created sham companies such as \"AF Holdings LLC\" and \"Ingenuity 13 LLC\" \"to give an appearance of legitimacy\" to their pursuit of \"easy money\".\n\nIn a footnote, Wright wryly observed that the punitive portion of the award \"is calculated to be just below the cost of an effective appeal\", a nod to his finding that plaintiffs' settlement demands were set \"just below the cost of a bare-bones defense\".\n\nWright's order was replete with \"Star Trek\" references: \n\nPrenda, and attorney Paul Hansmeier, filed an \"emergency motion\" in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit seeking a stay of Judge Wright's sanctions order; it was denied without prejudice to the sanctioned parties' right to request a stay in Judge Wright's court. They then filed an ex parte motion seeking a stay from Wright. On May 21, 2013, Wright responded by ordering each sanctioned party (\"Steele, Duffy, Hansmeier, Gibbs, AF Holdings, Ingenuity 13, and Prenda\") to pay an additional $1,000 per day (to the clerk of the court), on top of the previously ordered $81,319.72 payable to John Doe's attorneys, until all sanctions are fully paid.<ref name=\"TechDirt 5/21/13\"></ref>\n\nHansmeier's application for admission to the bar of the Ninth Circuit was also provisionally denied by a court commissioner, citing his referral to professional bar and discipline committees, based on Judge Wright's finding of \"moral turpitude\". Hansmeier had sought admission to the Ninth Circuit bar in order to represent his wife in her objection to a class-action settlement, but was told he may not do so.<ref name=\"ArsTechnica 5/20/13\"></ref>\n\nOn May 20, 2013, attorneys Steele, Hansmeier, and Duffy secured and posted a bond of $101,650 on behalf of themselves, Prenda Law Inc., Ingenuity 13 LLC and AF Holdings LLC (but not Gibbs), to guarantee payment of Judge Wright's sanctions order if upheld on appeal.<ref name=\"ArsTechnica 5/31/13\"></ref> The amount of the bond was later raised to a total of $237,584 to cover a possible attorney fee award on appeal; the Prenda parties' appeal of this order was denied, 2-1, by a three-judge Ninth Circuit motions panel.<ref name=\"ArsTechnica 7/10/13\"></ref> The increased bond was to be filed by July 15, 2013.\n\nOn October 17, 2013, Brett Gibbs offered a sworn statement, an unsworn motion, and alleged documents and claims concerning Prenda and its principals as part of an appeal against his sanction. The allegations and claims included:\n\nThe defendants claimed that while his wrongdoings were of a lesser scale, they were not trivial, and opposed lifting of the entire sanction. On November 7 Gibbs' request was granted and the monetary part of his sanctions withdrawn (\"vacated\") due to his \"dissociation\".\n\nOn November 18, 2013, the three principals appealed their sanctions, on the basis that the court had erred in combining elements of a civil and criminal hearing, in effect choosing elements of each and thereby failing to meet the requirements for a number of actions taken. Their claims included:\n\n\nThe appeal, styled \"Paul Hansmeier, Esq. v. John Doe\", was heard before the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals on May 4, 2015. A video recording of the oral argument is publicly available. The appeal was denied on June 10, 2016.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit held that:\n\nAttorney John Steele, who denied having any \"ownership interest\" in Prenda Law, told \"Adult Video News\" that \"he has faith in the appellate process\" and complained that his attorneys were not permitted to present \"evidence or testimony\". He denied ever practicing law in California, and claimed he had \"satisfied\" previous inquiries from the Illinois State Bar, and stated that Livewire Holdings, identified by Judge Wright as being a member of the Prenda family, \"is filing multiple new cases this week (the week of May 6, 2013)\".<ref name=\"Adult Video News 5/7/13\"></ref>\n\nMorgan Pietz, who was awarded $76,752.52 of the sanctions award for his fees and costs, described Prenda Law as \"the courtroom equivalent of a common bully\". Pietz credited the efforts of \"a number of attorneys all over the country [who helped] unravel the puzzle pieces and reveal [Prenda Law] for what they are, profiteering copyright trolls who are abusing the law\".<ref name=\"XBIZ 5/7/13\"></ref>\n\n\"AF Holdings v. Navasca\" (California) was another Prenda case decided in 2013. As with the signature by \"Alan Cooper\" in \"Ingenuity 13\", during April and May 2013, the judge in \"Navasca\" expressed curiosity about a signature by \"Salt Marsh\" on behalf of Prenda client AF Holdings, ordering the original to be produced. Paul Duffy stated he did not know, and Mark Lutz stated he had signed for the client but no longer had the original. Salt Marsh, originally identified as an individual person, was later stated to be a trust for the benefit of Lutz' family, however as plaintiff filings variously stated that \"Salt Marsh\" was an \"individual\", and had read various documents and discussed dispute options the court sought the identity of the person who had read, discussed, and signed for the client. Commentators identified that a man named \"Saltmarsh\" had multiple connections and shared residences with both Steele and other Prenda shell companies, but whether this was the same \"Saltmarsh\" was unknown. After the events of early 2013 in \"Ingenuity 13 v. Does\" (above), Prenda and AF Holdings sought dismissal of \"numerous cases\" in Californian Federal courts, including \"Navasca\". The judge denied the dismissal, ruling that Prenda's prior actions in \"Nevasca\" seemed to be connected to their desire to prevent discovery of damaging evidence which might also impact the \"Ingenuity 13\" case, Prenda's disinclination (as in other Prenda cases) to post a bond to support their case (the court ruled: \"A plaintiff cannot invoke the benefits of the judicial system without being prepared to satisfy its obligations as a litigant\"), and described it as \"telling that AF moved for a voluntary dismissal only two days after... problems related to its standing were explored and exposed by Mr. Navasca\". The case was subsequently dismissed with prejudice by the court, as \"AF's counsel has now substantially complied with the Court's order\". Ken White commented on the ruling:\n\nThis [with prejudice] order is a body blow to Prenda Law. Judge Chen... is openly suggesting that Prenda's conduct suggests malfeasance and evasion of potential negative rulings. He invited Navasca to file a separate motion for fees, and this order strongly suggests that he will grant such a motion. Judge Chen's dismissal of Prenda's 'it doesn't matter if Cooper's signature is forged' argument suggests that he suspects that Prenda's entire litigation strategy is premised on fraud — that Prenda has manufactured the dispute, and that AF Holdings is merely a front for Prenda Law lawyers.\n\nOn July 2, 2013, defense attorney Nicholas Ranallo filed a motion seeking an award for costs and legal fees against John Steele and Paul Hansmeier personally, rather than against Prenda or the plaintiffs. The motion summarized the known history and legal cases related to Prenda and its affiliates, and the findings of fraud upon the court, and stated the intent to \"hold the individual attorneys that have knowingly committed fraud in this case responsible for their actions by making them jointly and severally liable for the costs and attorney fees incurred\", since allegedly \"[t]he evidence of fraud is clear and unrebutted, and the involvement of John Steele and Paul Hansmeier is likewise clear. The instant scheme was created by lawyers, for the benefit of lawyers, and it is entirely appropriate that these lawyers should bear the burden that their actions have caused\". The motion cited evidence from several Prenda cases, including:\n\nIn \"Sunlust vs. Nguyen\", at a November 27, 2012 hearing before U.S. District Judge Mary S. Scriven of the Middle District of Florida, paralegal Mark Lutz claimed to be a \"corporate representative\" of Prenda's \"client\" \"Sunlust Pictures.\" However, when placed under oath and questioned by Judge Scriven, Lutz could not name any of Sunlust's officers or directors, nor could he recall who signs his paychecks. As a result, Lutz was excluded as a plaintiff representative by the court. Plaintiff's attorney John Torres, stated on oath that he was engaged by Prenda Law through Brett Gibbs as principal, although with no contract or other documents and unable to identify his general counsel; Paul Duffy of Prenda Law had denied involvement, stating that the firm was not engaged or a principal attorney in the case. John Steele, present in court and discussing with plaintiff attorneys, described himself as \"an attorney but not involved in this case\", to which defense counsel Syfert stated that in fact Lutz had previously worked for Steele and Prenda Law, and \"he should have better information about the structure of Prenda Law\" than he had stated. Following Lutz' exclusion and Torres' withdrawal from the case, Scriven stated she would entertain a motion for sanctions against Prenda and its attorneys for \"attempted fraud on the Court\", as well as against Duffy for \"lack of candor\" based upon Torres' testimony. The defense filed multiple motions for sanctions, but withdrew them all on May 20, 2013, observers concluded an out-of-court settlement had probably been reached instead.\n\nOn May 21, 2013, Hennepin County, Minnesota District Court Judge Ann L. Alton awarded no damages to Alan Cooper on his identity-theft claim against Steele and Prenda, but she ordered attorney Paul Hansmeier to \"stop using Alan Cooper's name\" and to \"never, ever again send fraudulent demand letters.\" Alton said she will refer Hansmeier to the Minnesota Lawyers Professional Responsibility Board for [violating] \"a whole lot of rules\".<ref name=\"TechDirt 5/21/13a\"></ref>\n\nOn June 3, 2013, in another Florida case (\"First Time Videos v. Oppold\"), the defense filed a declaration by expert witness Delvan Neville which accused Prenda Law of \"seeding\" its own content (which was not otherwise available) in an effort to induce copyright infringement.<ref name=\"Ars Technica 6/3/13\"></ref> Neville's declaration presented digital forensic evidence that someone with access to the GoDaddy.com account of John Steele was also sharing pornographic content through Pirate Bay user \"sharkmp4\", following which, the Pirate Bay released its own logs of the user \"sharkmp4\" supporting the claims in the declaration. Syfert concluded: \"Prenda Law's business structure is such that it is copyright-violating pirate, forensic pirate hunter, and attorney. It also appears that Prenda Law also wants to/has formed/is forming a corporate structure where it is: pornography producer, copyright holder, pornography pirate, forensic investigator, [law] firm, and debt collector.\" Prenda's connection with the suspect IP (formally assigned by Comcast to 'Steele Hansmeier PLLC'), which had been used by \"sharkmp4\" and was linked to unlicensed pornographic media distribution, was subsequently confirmed by Comcast in August 2013 following a subpoena in another Prenda case, \" AF Holdings v Patel\".\n\nIn November 2013 (\"Minnesota v. Does\"), Prenda apparent shell AF Holdings was directed to repay settlements obtained from four alleged downloaders, in a ruling that stated there was no evidence the claims made were truthful, the copyrights described were held, authentic, or legally assigned by correct signature, and that \"The copyright-assignment agreements [for] each complaint in each of these five cases are not what they purport to be. Alan Cooper denies signing either agreement and also denies giving anyone else the authority to sign them on his behalf. AF Holdings failed to produce any credible evidence that the assignments were authentic. The Court has been the victim of a fraud perpetrated by AF Holdings...\" The court, as in other cases, referred the issues of misconduct to \"federal and state law enforcement at the direction of the United States Attorney, the Minnesota Attorney General and the Boards of Professional Responsibility\", noting that \"The Court expressly disbelieves Steele's testimony\" in explaining their use of Cooper's signature. The repayment was reversed on appeal in March 2014, as the magistrate judge had exceeded the \"inherent authority of the court\" and the signatures had not been material to the outcome.\n\nIn July 2013, a Georgia Federal court ordered discovery for both parties in a November 2012 case filed by AF Holdings, in which the plaintiff's attorney stated he was of counsel to Prenda Law and offered the law firm's telephone number and Brett Gibbs' email.\n\nThe case became relevant in the context of other cases because of its discovery evidence, which was at times referred to in other cases and courts. Information and audio records obtained from ISPs were alleged by the defendant to show that an account in attorney John Steele's name was used to access a domain registered to \"Alan Cooper\" and when re-registered to \"Mark Lutz\" retained Steele's email address; that audio recordings of support requests for a domain registered to \"Alan Cooper\" seemed to be \"[the] same voice\" but identify himself variously in the different calls as \"Alan Cooper\", \"John\", \"John Steele\" and \"Mark Lutz\"; that an IP address used to log into an account registered to \"John Steele\" was also found to be allegedly involved in uploading of copyrighted works for sharing as well; and that two plaintiff motions filed in the case contained metadata which, it was claimed, indicated they had been \"authored by Paul Duffy\" of Prenda.\n\nIn February 2014, with evidence in the underlying case and \"cause\" hearing stayed due to inclement weather, AF Holdings applied for Paul Duffy to be appointed as attorney \"pro hac vice\" (temporarily, \"for this case only\") after its prior attorney went back on active duty, and in March 2013 the case was ultimately dismissed with prejudice.\n\nIn February 2013, Prenda Law, Steele and Duffy filed three similar lawsuits with identical titles in state courts in Illinois and Florida, each alleging defamation.<ref name=\"TechDirt 3/4/2013\"></ref> The defendants in each case were Alan Cooper (who had commenced litigation over the fraudulent misuse of his name in Prenda cases such as \"Ingenuity 13\"), Alan Cooper's attorney Paul Godfread (who alerted judiciary to those concerns), and \"Does\" (all persons who had used or merely read, during a two-year period January 2011 to February 2013, two websites established by victims of online copyright trolling to oppose trolling and support trolling victims, along with the identities of the websites' founding bloggers).\n\nSubpoenas seeking website visitor information were issued to Automattic (owner of WordPress) and Wild West Domains (part of GoDaddy), who hosted and registered the two websites. Automattic responded that the request was \"overly broad\" and \"legally deficient and objectionable for numerous reasons\" and would not be entertained, and the non-profit Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) announced almost at the same time that it would offer the anonymous website users free legal defense. Prenda's request for a subpoena was quashed on May 16, 2013 for failure to file a response,<ref name=\"TechDirt 5/17/13\"></ref> and Steele's case was dismissed voluntarily at his own request on March 6, 2013.\n\nIn a March 2014 ruling on the remaining lawsuits (now consolidated into a single case), Prenda and Duffy were ruled to have engaged in \"unreasonable and vexacious\" conduct and acted duplicitously; the ruling highlights in addition a finding that \"to fabricate what a federal judge said in a ruling before another court falls well outside the bounds of proper advocacy and demonstrates a serious disregard for the judicial process.\" Godfread and Cooper were granted their motion for sanctions.\n\nThe cases were characterized by \"TechDirt\" as \"basically defamation lawsuits\" and in effect SLAPP lawsuits, whose purpose was to chill (i.e., discourage and avert) legitimate public discussions of Prenda and its principals' activities, and to obtain disclosure of online critics' personal information. \n\nIn \"Guava LLC vs. Merkel\" (similar to another case, \"Lightspeed v. Doe\"), the law practice focused on only one defendant, whom it asserted had \"hacked\" a website and was a member of a \"conspiracy\" who \"colluded\" with \"multiple co-conspirators\" using a \"hacked\" password to intercept and gain access to Guava's \"financial information\" and other confidential operational information about Guava's business. On the basis of that assertion, the plaintiffs and/or (according to defendant testimony) Prenda and its affiliates also sought to obtain details of numerous other potential targets, including ISP subpoenas concerning numerous other individuals, as well as damages from the defendant \"in excess of $100,000\".\n\nThe defendant in \"Guava\" testified that he was contacted by Prenda, and given an ultimatum: he could \"agree to be sued\", and if so Prenda would suggest a choice of attorney, and in return provide Prenda a copy of data concerning file sharing activities, following which his case would be dismissed, or he could pay $3,400 to close the case silently, or he would face the risk of heavy penalties [figures of $222,000 and $675,000 were cited from other cases] if the court found against him for file sharing a pornographic item for which Guava claimed to be copyright holder.<ref name=\"TechDirt 1/25/13\"></ref> The defendant's testimony included the statement that: \"After subpoenas were served in the case against me, I learned of Guava LLC's and Prenda Law's practice of finding one John Doe to be a named defendant, and then discovering the names of and requesting settlement money from other John Does by issuing subpoenas to ISPs.\"\n\nUpon filing the lawsuit the defendant's attorney then stipulated with Prenda that Prenda could issue subpoenas to the defendant's purported \"co-conspirators.\" Defendant's attorney and Prenda's attorney then submitted an \"agreed order\" to the judge, who promptly signed it. TechDirt commented that \"Judges in underfunded county courts are happy when defendant and plaintiff agree on something, and (often) endorse such agreements\", and that this enabled Prenda and affiliates to issue subpoenas seeking the identities of untold hundreds or thousands of ISP subscribers, resulting in Prenda being able to send out hundreds or thousands of new demands for \"settlement\".\n\n\"ArsTechnica\" opined that in acting this way, Guava was in effect colluding with a \"sham\" defendant in order to obtain legal orders identifying other internet users who might be targeted, and that \"fil[ing] fake lawsuits against defendants who were in bed with Prenda\" was used by the plaintiffs to reduce the risk of a named defendant actually fighting the case in court; the defendant decided to testify about the arrangement after Prenda continued to demand money. The activist website \"fightcopyrighttrolls.com\" opined that the \"Guava LLC v. Skylar\" case, \"Arte de Oaxaca LLC v. Stacey Mullen\" [plaintiff: LW Holdings], and other cases with \"a single mysterious defendant and...an 'agreed order' allowing unmasking [of] hundreds and thousands of ISP subscribers\" might be examples of similar Prenda state court cases, in which plaintiffs and/or their affiliates might have in effect coerced individuals they claimed to be downloaders into \"playing a defendant\" in a \"sham lawsuit\" in order to get testimony and non-party subpoenas which could be similarly exploited through litigation.\n\nFile sharing writer and former copyright enforcer Ben Jones opined about the case, that \"These [hacking] claims were, it seems, to get around the problems of having already sued and settled [Merkel's] copyright case. Using state laws they could file in state courts, and keep a distance between this case and the Doe case filed in DC that Merkel settled.\"\n\nOn January 22, 2013, four ISPs asked the court to quash subpoenas in \"Guava\", on the grounds that \"new information strongly indicates that the present action may be nothing more than a contrived lawsuit with no actual controversy\", in which the defendant had agreed to act as a defendant \"for the sole purpose of facilitating Guava's pursuit of non-party discovery...\" The case was eventually dismissed with prejudice, and costs and legal fees of $63,367.52 were awarded against Guava LLC, Alpha Law Firm LLC (a further plaintiff with links to Prenda that had joined the case) and Guava's Counsel of Record.\n\nAttorney Cathy Gellis commented on the significance of the \"Salt Marsh\" and \"Alan Cooper\" signatures on legal papers in \"Nevasca\" and \"Ingenuity 13\", that: \"[T]ransferring the copyright [to a Prenda \"client\"]... shows that someone has a copyright. It doesn't show that someone has standing to come into court to enforce it. Given that Prenda Law has been unable to substantiate who that someone is, all of these cases have become suspect on that basis\". In a similar manner, \"The 'Alan Cooper' problem... stems from certain paperwork allegedly 'signed' by a Mr. Cooper that doesn't seem to exist, thereby creating a fundamental standing issue for all these cases\".\n\nLegally, the act of knowingly falsifying a signature for a court document, or asserting a false statement about standing, would potentially be a fraud upon the court. Judge Wright stated in \"Ingenuity 13\" that \"Although the recipient of a copyright assignment need not sign the document, a forgery is still a forgery. And trying to pass that forged document by the Court smacks of fraud\".\n\nFederal courts in the United States seek to procure the orderly, just and timely resolution of genuine controversies and disputes, which limits the purpose for which legal processes can be used, and their manner of use. (\"See also: Case or Controversy Clause\"). In case law this has meant at times that motive becomes a distinction in US court cases, so that a case or motion perceived by the court to have an inappropriate motive or reason may be distinguished, and expedited subpoenas or discovery (against parties or non-parties) may be declined by a court if ill-suited to the circumstances or perceived to have an inappropriate purpose.\n\nUS law differs from some other countries on how legal fees and court costs are allocated following litigation, in a way that impacts some kinds of litigation. Unlike most other common-law countries, the \"American rule\" stipulates that, while discretion and many exceptions exist, the general principle is that , unless legally stated otherwise. This can avoid a deterrent effect against a poor plaintiff, but can also give even a defendant who might defend successfully, good incentive to settle and pay, if it will cost less than the likely cost of defense and any appeals, or they lack resources for the procedures that may be required.\n\n"}
{"id": "56458826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56458826", "title": "Presumption of guilt", "text": "Presumption of guilt\n\nPresumption of guilt, in Latin, \"ei incumbit probatio qui negat, non qui dicit\" (the burden of proof is on the one who denies, not on one who declares), is the principle that one is considered guilty unless proven innocent. Generally, this is an argument from ignorance, a philosophical concept in which a thing is assumed to be true because not proved false.\n\nPresumption of guilt shifts the burden of proof onto the defendant, who must then prove a negative to achieve acquittal. The phrase has been in use since at least the 1840s. It is a default position based on pessimism and suspicion whereas presumption of innocence is based more on optimism and trust. There is a greater likelihood of obtaining a wrongful conviction. For example, in the murder of Lynette White case, a double wrong was committed in that innocent men were convicted, while the real perpetrator remained at large and a danger to the public.\n\nPresumption of guilt is a denial of an international human right under the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 11. Under the presumption of guilt, the defence must collect and present compelling evidence to the trier of fact (a judge or a jury). The defence must, in most cases prove that the accused is innocent.\n\nPresumption of guilt is pandemic, occasionally erupting into epidemic proportions. Smaller instances include adverse accusatory reactions to unusual costume such as the burqa, or merely a 'suspicious stare' from the police. More severe is the blame culture inherent in bureaucratic organisations where those with the least responsibility are blamed the most.\nBelief in the 'Stab-in-the-back myth' – that Jews and profiteers were collectively guilty of losing the war for Germany in 1918 – is an extreme instance of guilt being presumed.\n\nPresumption of guilt may take many forms: \n\n\nPresumption of guilt is as old as suspicion itself. In ancient Greece, public officials were elected for very limited terms of office and barred from re-election, on the presumption that too long an incumbency would lead to abuse of power. Thucydides and Aristophanes pointed out that the crowd were too easily swayed by oratory and emotion. As Lord Acton wrote in the 19th century, again expressing presumption of guilt, \"Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. Great men are almost always bad men...\"\n\nAdolf Hitler was a persistent presumer of guilt in those he disliked. Being allegedly a psychopath and narcissist he tended to blame others when things went wrong. From 1918 he blamed Germany's defeat on the November criminals of the Weimar Republic for negotiating a truce when Germany still had the capacity to fight on; in Mein Kampf he wrote; 'every third German is a traitor'. In 1945, when it was clear that Germany could not win the war, Hitler wished to punish the entire nation for failing to meet his expectations, according to Sebastian Haffner.\n\nBetween 1947 and 1956, many US citizens were unfairly accused of being communist agents or sympathisers and had their careers ruined during the era of McCarthyism and the Second Red Scare, or even killed like Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. The McCarthyites 'never produced a single Communist spy whose guilt was proved in court.'\n\nIn 1989, Ayatollah Khomeini, supreme leader of Iran, pronounced a death sentence by fatwa on Salman Rushdie and anyone assisting publication of his book, \"The Satanic Verses\"; 'I call on all Muslims wherever they may be in the world to kill them without delay'. the Fatwa was condemned for violating national sovereignty, freedom of speech, and the Muslim principle of fiqh.\n\nIn the UK case \"Hale\", 2 P. C. 290 (n), the defendant was alleged to have murdered his niece, who had cried out 'good uncle do not kill me', and then was seen no more. The defendant, asked to produce the girl in court, had fraudulently produced another girl disguised as the niece. The court presumed him guilty on this basis and he was executed. Later, the niece was found, alive and well.\n\nThe American actor and producer Jeremy Piven has spoken out against the Me Too movement, which, he claims, 'put lives in jeopardy without a hearing, due process or evidence'. Writing about Piven's comment, journalist Brendan O'Neill, suggests that the presumption of innocence, which barrister and writer John Mortimer described as a 'golden thread', is being weakened.\n\nHigh Court judge Sir Richard Henriques has criticized UK police training and methods which allegedly assert that 'only 0.1% of rape allegations are false' ('lying with statistics' or straight-out lie to prejudice, this is better than 'accusers never lie', which is obviously false.) and in which all complainants are treated as 'victims' from the start. In three cases which later collapsed, including those of Liam Allan and Danny Kay, police withheld vital evidence from the defence. It is difficult to assess the true prevalence of false rape allegations, but it is generally agreed that rape accusations are false about 2% to 10% of the time.\n\nIn March 2017 Elizabeth Truss, Justice Secretary, said \"that from September juries across the country will watch the pre-recorded cross-examinations during a trial\".\n\nIn 1990, Yale professor and radical feminist Catharine MacKinnon, is alleged to have addressed a graduation crowd thus; 'look about you. Statistics tell us you have just laid eyes on someone guilty of sexual assault'. In her 1989 book \"Towards a Feminist Theory of the State\" she alleged that 'all sex is akin to rape'.\n\nIn China there has been a 'spate of wrongful convictions' and alleged misconduct by police and prosecutors.\n\nIn Turkey, a suspect arrested after the July 2016 coup attempt was asked to pay his defence lawyer $80,000, reflecting the cost to the lawyer's career; he would be thrown off the bar. 'Bogus and ludicrous charges' and confessions obtained under torture, were allegedly widespread.\n\nIn Japan the criminal justice system has been criticized for its wide use of detentions, suspects were forced to make false confessions during interrogations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12787297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12787297", "title": "Project Bioshield Act", "text": "Project Bioshield Act\n\nThe Project Bioshield Act was an act passed by the United States Congress in 2004 calling for $5 billion for purchasing vaccines that would be used in the event of a bioterrorist attack. This was a ten-year program to acquire medical countermeasures to biological, chemical, radiological, and nuclear agents for civilian use. A key element of the Act was to allow stockpiling and distribution of vaccines which had not been tested for safety or efficacy in humans, due to ethical concerns. Efficacy of such agents cannot be directly tested in humans without also exposing humans to the chemical, biological, or radioactive threat being treated, so testing follows the FDA Animal Rule for pivotal animal efficacy.\n\nSince the 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States government has allocated nearly $50 billion to address the threat of biological weapons. U.S. funding for bioweapons-related activities focuses primarily on research for and acquisition of medicines for defense. Funding also goes toward stockpiling protective equipment, increased surveillance and detection of biological agents, and improving state and hospital preparedness. The increase in this type of funding is mainly for Project BioShield. Significant funding also goes to Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), part of HHS. Funding for activities aimed at prevention has more than doubled 2007 and is distributed to 11 federal agencies. Efforts toward cooperative international action are part of the project.\n\n\nProgress has been made in the establishment of both national requirements and acquisition strategies, as well as the procurement of pre- and postexposure countermeasures to meet the threat from anthrax, botulinum toxins, smallpox, and radiological and nuclear threats.\n\nUnited States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has taken a number of additional steps to accomplish the goal of effectively and efficiently implementing the Project BioShield Act. HHS has reorganized the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR) (formerly the Office of Public Health Emergency Preparedness) and established a dedicated strategic planning function that more efficiently integrates biodefense requirements and streamlines the interagency governance process. Under the reorganized structure, on behalf of the secretary of HHS, the ASPR leads the federal public health and medical response to acts of terrorism or nature and other public health and medical emergencies. In 2006, HHS announced, in the Federal Register Notice of 6 July 2006, the establishment of the Public Health Emergency Medical Countermeasures Enterprise (PHEMCE).\n\nIn September 2012, \"BioPrepWatch\" reported that the BARDA annual report shows that the number of supplies of countermeasures for combating terrorist attacks is growing.\n\nAccording to the report, BARDA has acquired:\n\nSection 401 of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 (H.R. 307; 113th Congress) reauthorized the BioShield Project. More specifically, it reauthorizes the Project BioShield Special Reserve Fund (SRF), originally established in 2004.\n\nTo June 2013, eight medical countermeasures (MCM) against anthrax, smallpox, botulinum toxin and radiological threats have been procured. Eighty other candidate MCMs are undergoing advanced development. However, unless Congress acts, the authorities and funds contained in the Project BioShield Act will expire at the end of year 2013. The legislative experiment of BioShield is now subject to evaluation and reconsideration in the House and the Senate, which have both passed versions of reauthorization legislation.\n\nIn March 2013, funding was extended through 2018 via the Pandemic Act.\n\nIn February 2018, the Bipartisan Policy Center released a report called \"Budgeting for Medical Countermeasures: An Ongoing Need for Preparedness.\" Based on the report, former U.S. Senator Tom Daschle (D-SD) said that the change in the way that the Project BioShield Act of 2004 is funded (it changed from a ten-year appropriations cycle to year-by-year funding) creates a climate of uncertainty for private firms looking to invest in medical countermeasures (MCM) against chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear (CBRN) agents. No commercial market exists for MCMs, so the firms that research and develop MCMs have to depend on a reliable stream of government money. According to \"Homeland Preparedness News\", \"Daschle and [former U.S. Sen. Judd] Gregg offered budgeting strategies that they believe could lend stability to the MCM arena, some of which would call for changes to statutory processes and congressional procedures that have been implemented since the Project BioShield Act's 2004 enactment.\"\n\nA 2005 review reported that the project had an advanced appropriation for countermeasures—ranging from vaccines to biodosimetry to surveillance—related to biological weapons and other WMD. Provisions have been made as well to ensure safer and more effective vaccinations for such threats such as smallpox. Another issue lies within the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA requires clinical studies of human safety and efficacy. The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association notes that this kind of testing for biological weapons is ethically unacceptable to conduct on humans. \"The need for expedited development of critical countermeasures must be balanced against the need to ensure that these essential interventions are safe as well as effective.\"\n\nA 2007 review stated that the project is needed because when the only market is the government, there is a high risk of failure and a low expectation of profit. This discourages other manufacturers from investing research, development and funds in the bioterrorism products to be sold, because the expected profits do not justify the opportunity costs. Pharmaceutical and vaccine manufacturers can perceive the federal government as an uncertain and low-profit market. The project was developed in an attempt to provide a financial incentive to manufacturers to develop the products needed for defense against chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats.\n\nA perspective piece published in The New England Journal of Medicine in 2009 noted that the FDA issued Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) to use an unapproved drug in case of an emergency, but also noted that this could only issued only after the secretary of health and human services has declared a public health emergency. \"In the case of the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic, such a declaration was made on April 26, 2009. An EUA for a medical product has a term of 1 year, but it can be renewed, depending on the circumstances of the emergency. It is important that product development continue to focus on the goal of approval (there are ongoing clinical trials evaluating the efficacy of intravenous peramivir in treating influenza), because the EUA is only a temporary means for making a product available during an emergency.\"\n\nA book published in 2010 written by Frank Gottron, \"Project BioShield: Purposes and Authorities\", stated that the project allows the Secretary of Health and Human Services to purchase unapproved and unlicensed vaccinations. The HHS will determine that \"...sufficient and satisfactory clinical experience or research data...support(s) a reasonable conclusion that the product will qualify for approval or licensing...within eight years.\" The HHS will write contracts on these unapproved products, help lowering the purchasing cost of the drugs.\n\nSome provisions of Project BioShield are controversial. Some critics suggest that biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies will require even more incentives than contained in these proposals from the Government.\n\nThe project's funding would be subject to annual review through the appropriations process. Furthermore, the law would require the HHS Secretary to prepare annual reports detailing actions taken under this Act including identification of each person or entity that received, or was considered and rejected for grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts under this Act. The approval and licensing processes are designed to preclude the marketing of ineffective and dangerous treatments. Only about 1 of 5 drugs that begin the approval process actually become approved treatments. Because it is not possible to predict the outcome of the approval process, critics of this provision suggest that the government will end up purchasing countermeasures that will eventually fail to be approved.\n\nObstacles to pharmaceutical and vaccine development include inadequate funding for research, insufficient protections against corporate liability, and constraints related to safety considerations. Typically, the drug-development process in the United States is largely initiated by the National Institutes of Health, which supports basic research through funding scientists. Although the development of a new medication usually takes several years between the time that research begins to the time that the medication is marketed, developing medical interventions against potential biological weapons is especially intense in terms of time, labor, and finances. There is also no guarantee that the drug companies will purchase the vaccinations.\n\nMichael Friedman, MD, chief medical officer for biomedical preparedness at the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America in Washington, DC voiced additional financial concerns of the pharmaceutical industry in 2005. He explains that manufacturers of biological defense products could still be \"exposed to devastating product-liability suits,\" adding, \"The decision to divert resources from the research and development of medicines for serious illnesses like heart disease can be financially risky, especially when a countermeasure may never be purchased or used.\" Friedman argues there needs to be more sponsored research and collaborative programs that engage government, academia, and industry, as well as additional incentives for private companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42273908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42273908", "title": "Reference Re Supreme Court Act, ss 5 and 6", "text": "Reference Re Supreme Court Act, ss 5 and 6\n\nReference Re Supreme Court Act, ss 5 and 6, 2014 SCC 21 is a decision of the Supreme Court of Canada concerning the eligibility of members of the Quebec courts and the Quebec Bar to be appointed to the three seats on the Supreme Court reserved for Quebec. The case also considers the constitutional status of the Supreme Court, holding that the Court has been constitutionally entrenched by the \"Constitution Act, 1982\", and that the composition of the Court, including eligibility for appointment, can only be amended by a unanimous constitutional amendment, consented to by the federal government and all ten provinces (though if any more provinces are formed, those provinces must also accept the amendment requiring unanimity).\n\nThe case arose when the federal government appointed Justice Marc Nadon to the position of puisne justice of the Supreme Court of Canada, on October 3, 2013. At the time of the appointment, Justice Nadon was a supernumerary judge of the Federal Court of Appeal, having served on the federal courts for over 20 years. Justice Nadon had been a member of the Quebec Bar prior to his appointment.\n\nOntario lawyer Rocco Galati challenged the appointment in the Federal Court of Canada, arguing that Justice Nadon was not eligible to be appointed, as he was neither a member of one of the superior courts of Quebec, nor a current member of the Bar of Quebec. The Quebec government also questioned the appointment.\n\nIn response, the federal Parliament passed an amendment to the \"Supreme Court Act\", which declared that the requirement that an appointee be a member of the Quebec bar also included former members of the Bar. The federal government then referred the issue to the Supreme Court as a reference question under the \"Supreme Court Act\". The federal government argued that the requirement that Quebec judges be appointed from among the bar of Quebec included former members of the bar.\n\nWhen the Supreme Court was created in 1875, it was composed of six judges, two of whom were required to be appointed from the superior courts of Quebec or from the Bar of Quebec, in order to ensure representation of Quebec's civil law jurisdiction on the Court. When the Court was expanded to nine judges in 1949, the number of Quebec judges was increased to three. This provision continues to apply under the \"Supreme Court Act\".\n\nSection 5 of the \"Act\" holds that, in general, Court appointees must either have been members of a provincial superior court, or must have at least ten years' standing at a provincial bar. Section 6 then provides a particular rule for Quebec, requiring that the three judges from Quebec must be appointed from either the superior courts of Quebec, or \"among the advocates of that province.\" The general rule in section 5 clearly included former members of the bars of the provinces as eligible to be appointed. The issue was whether the wording of section 6 restricted that general rule to current members of the bar of Quebec for the Quebec seats on the Court.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled, by a 6–1 decision, that only current members of the Quebec superior courts and current members of the bar of Quebec are eligible to be appointed to the Quebec seats on the Supreme Court.\n\nThe majority decision was attributed to all six of the judges in the majority, rather than to a single judge. The Court held that the amendment to the \"Supreme Court Act\" was not simply declaratory of the previous law, but an actual change to the composition of the Court, and was therefore \"ultra vires\" federal Parliament. A change to the composition of the Court can only be made by a unanimous constitutional amendment under s. 41 of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\". The appointment of Justice Nadon was therefore void \"ab initio\". He remained a supernumerary judge of the Federal Court of Appeal.\n\nJustice Moldaver dissented. He argued that section 5 and section 6 of the \"Supreme Court Act\" had to be read together, and that the requirement in section 6 that Quebec appointees be from \"among the advocates of that province\" included former members of the Quebec bar, the same as for appointments from the other provinces under section 5.\n\nJustice Rothstein did not participate in the decision. He had been appointed from the Federal Court of Appeal, leading to the possibility that his right to be appointed might be called into question. However, since he had previously been a member of the bar of Manitoba, the decision did not leave his appointment in doubt, since he qualified under the general appointee principle set out in section 5 of the \"Supreme Court Act\".\n\n"}
{"id": "26931388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26931388", "title": "Religious and political symbols in Unicode", "text": "Religious and political symbols in Unicode\n\nUnicode contains a number of characters that represent various cultural, political, and religious symbols. \nMost but not all of these are in the Miscellaneous Symbols block.\n\nMost of them are treated as graphic symbols that are not characters.\n\nExceptions to this include characters in certain writing systems that are also in use as political or religious symbols, such as ࿕ (U+0FD5), the swastika encoded as a Chinese character;\nor ॐ (U+0950), the Om symbol which is strictly speaking a Devanagari ligature. \nA special case is ﷲ (U+FDF2), which is a special ligature of Arabic script used only for writing of the word \"Allah\". It is in the Arabic Presentation Forms-A block which was encoded for compatibility only and is not recommended for use in regular Arabic text.\n\nUnicode defines the semantics of a character by its character identity and its \"normative properties\", one of these being the character's \"general category\", given as a two-letter code (e.g. \"Lu\" for \"uppercase letter\"). \nCharacters that fall in the \"political or religious\" category are given the \"general category\" \"So\", which is the catch-all category for \"Symbol, other\", i.e. anything considered a \"symbol\" which does not fall in any of the three other categories of \n\"Sm\" (mathematical symbols), \"Sc\" (currency symbols) or \"Sk\" (phonetic modifier symbols, i.e. IPA signs not considered letters).\n\nThe Unicode chart for the Armenian block notes two religious symbols:\n\nThe Dingbats block also contains some symbols with political/religious connotations:\n\nThe Unicode chart for the Enclosed Ideographic Supplement block notes several symbols used for Chinese folk religion:\n\nThe Unicode chart for the Miscellaneous Symbols block has a section explicitly labelled \"Religious and political symbols\":\nThe emoji variants have U+FE0F after the symbol.\n\nThe Unicode chart for the Miscellaneous Symbols and Pictographs block notes many religious symbols:\n\nOstensibly religious symbols are, however, not limited to this section, as the same chart has another short section of two characters labelled \"Syriac cross symbols\", with the explanatory gloss \"These symbols are used in liturgical texts of Syriac-speaking churches\".\nAnother short section of two symbols is headed \"Medical and healing symbols\", including U+2624 ☤ Caduceus (c.f. U+1F750 🝐 \"alchemical symbol for caduceus\"), U+2695 ⚕ \"staff of Aesculapius and U+2625 ☥ Ankh, all of which originate in religious (polytheistic) tradition.\n\nThe Unicode chart for the Tibetan block notes several religious symbols:\n"}
{"id": "4184996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4184996", "title": "Repatriation of Seamen Convention, 1926", "text": "Repatriation of Seamen Convention, 1926\n\nRepatriation of Seamen Convention, 1926 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1926.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 47 states. Subsequently, 13 ratifying states have denounced the treaty.\n\nThe principles found in the convention were revised in a later ILO treaty, the Repatriation of Seafarers Convention (Revised), 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "8313678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8313678", "title": "Right to petition", "text": "Right to petition\n\nThe right to petition government for redress of grievances is the right to make a complaint to, or seek the assistance of, one's government, without fear of punishment or reprisals, ensured by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution (1791). Article 44 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union ensures the right to petition to the European Parliament. \nThe right can be traced back to the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany, the Bill of Rights 1689, the Petition of Right (1628), and Magna Carta (1215).\n\nThe prohibition of abridgment of the \"right to petition\" originally referred only to the Congress and the US federal courts. The incorporation doctrine later expanded the protection of the right to its current scope, over all state and federal courts and legislatures, and the executive branches of the state and federal governments.\n\nThe right to petition includes, under its umbrella, the petition. For example, in January 2006, the US Senate considered S. 2180, an omnibus \"ethics reform\" bill. This bill contained a provision (Section 204) to establish federal regulation, for the first time, of certain efforts to encourage \"grassroots lobbying\". The bill said that \"'grassroots lobbying' means the voluntary efforts of members of the general public to communicate their own views on an issue to Federal officials or to encourage other members of the general public to do the same\".\n\nThis provision was opposed by a broad array of organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Right to Life Committee, and the National Rifle Association. On January 18, 2007, the US Senate voted 55-43 to strike Section 221 from the bill.\n\nThere are ongoing conflicts between organizations that wish to impose greater restrictions on citizen's attempts to influence or \"lobby\" policymakers. and the right of individuals, groups, and corporations (via corporate personhood ), to lobby the government.\n\nAnother controversial bill, the Executive Branch Reform Act, H.R. 984, would require over 8,000 Executive Branch officials to report into a public database nearly any \"significant contact\" from any \"private party\", a term that the bill defines to include almost all persons other than government officials. The bill defines \"significant contact\" to be any \"oral or written communication (including electronic communication) . . . in which the private party seeks to influence official action by any officer or employee of the executive branch of the United States.\" This covers all forms of communication, one way or two ways, including letters, faxes, e-mails, phone messages, and petitions. The bill is supported by some organizations as an expansion of \"government in the sunshine\", but other groups oppose it as an infringing on the right to petition by making it impossible for citizens to communicate their views on controversial issues to government officials without those communications becoming a matter of public record.\n\n"}
{"id": "265800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265800", "title": "Scientology controversies", "text": "Scientology controversies\n\nSince its inception in 1954, the Church of Scientology has been involved in a number of controversies, including its stance on psychiatry, Scientology's legitimacy as a religion, the Church's aggressive attitude in dealing with its perceived enemies and critics, allegations of mistreatment of members, and predatory financial practices, for example the high cost of religious training and perceived exploitative practices. When mainstream media outlets have reported alleged abuses, representatives of the church have tended to deny such allegations.\n\nThe church maintains strict control over the use of its symbols, names and religious texts. Although U.S. intellectual property law allows for \"fair use\" of material for commentary, parody, educational purposes, etc., critics of the church such as Gerry Armstrong have argued the church unfairly and illegally uses the legal system to suppress \"fair\" uses, including suppressing any mention of the space opera aspects of the religion, including the story of Xenu.\n\nOne example critics cited is a 1995 lawsuit against the \"Washington Post\" newspaper \"et al.\" The Religious Technology Center (RTC), the corporation controlling L. Ron Hubbard's copyrighted materials, sued to prevent a \"Post\" reporter from describing church teachings at the center of another lawsuit, claiming copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation, and the circulation of their \"advanced technology\" teachings would cause \"devastating, cataclysmic spiritual harm\" to those not prepared. In her judgment in favor of the \"Post\", Judge Leonie Brinkema noted:\n\nThere have been a number of controversies between Scientology and psychiatry since the founding of the Church of Scientology in 1952. Scientology is publicly, and often vehemently, opposed to both psychiatry and psychology. Scientologists view psychiatry as a barbaric and corrupt profession and encourage alternative care based on spiritual healing. According to the Church of Scientology, psychiatry has a long history of improper and abusive care. The group's views have been disputed, criticized and condemned by experts in the medical and scientific community and been a source of public controversy.\n\nThe Church of Scientology's objection to secular ideas about mental health are religious in nature, based on the conviction that humans are essentially divine beings who have been marred by negative experiences acquired over several lifetimes. Scientology also purports that the secular perception of what is mentally normal are not based on science, a contradiction to the claims of psychiatry and psychology.\n\nThe Church founded an anti-psychiatry organization called Citizens Commission on Human Rights (CCHR), which operates a museum in Hollywood, California called . The museum is dedicated to criticizing what it describes as \"an industry driven entirely by profit\". It has a variety of displays and exhibits that highlight physical psychiatric treatments, such as restraints, psychoactive drugs, electroconvulsive therapy and psychosurgery (including lobotomy, a procedure abandoned in the 1960s).\n\nScientology has a reputation for hostile action toward anyone who criticizes it in a public forum; executives within the organization have proclaimed Scientology is \"not a turn-the-other-cheek religion\". Journalists, politicians, former Scientologists and various anti-cult groups have made accusations of wrongdoing against Scientology since the 1960s, and Scientology has targeted these critics - almost without exception - for retaliation, in the form of lawsuits and public counter-accusations of personal wrongdoing. Many of Scientology's critics have also reported they were subject to threats and harassment in their private lives.\n\nThe organization's actions reflect a formal policy for dealing with criticism instituted by L. Ron Hubbard, called \"attack the attacker\". Hubbard codified this policy in the latter half of the 1960s in response to government investigations into the organization. In 1966, Hubbard wrote a criticism of the organization's behavior and noted the \"correct procedure\" for attacking enemies of Scientology:\n\nIn 2007 a BBC documentary on Scientology by reporter John Sweeney came under scrutiny by Scientologists. Sweeney alleged \"While making our BBC Panorama film \"Scientology and Me\" I have been shouted at, spied on, had my hotel invaded at midnight, denounced as a 'bigot' by star Scientologists, brain-washed—that is how it felt to me—in a mock up of a Nazi-style torture chamber and chased round the streets of Los Angeles by sinister strangers\". This resulted in a video being distributed by Scientologists of a shouting match between Sweeney and Scientology spokesman Tommy Davis. The church has reportedly released a DVD accusing the BBC of organising a demonstration outside a Scientology office in London, during which \"terrorist death threats\" were made against Scientologists. The BBC described the allegations as \"clearly laughable and utter nonsense\". Sandy Smith, the BBC programme's producer, commented the church of Scientology has \"no way of dealing with any kind of criticism at all\".\n\nHubbard detailed his rules for attacking critics in a number of policy letters, including one often quoted by critics as \"the Fair Game policy\". This allowed those who had been declared enemies of the Church, called \"suppressive persons\" (SPs), \"May be deprived of property or injured by any means...May be tricked, sued or lied to or destroyed\". (taken from HCOPL Oct. 18, 1967 Issue IV, \"Penalties for Lower Conditions\" )\n\nThe aforementioned policy was canceled and replaced by HCOPL July 21, 1968, \"Penalties for Lower Conditions\". The wordings \"May be deprived of property or injured by any means...May be tricked, sued or lied to or destroyed\", are not found in this reference. Scientology critics argue only the term but not the practice was removed. To support this contention, they refer to \"HCO Policy Letter of October 21, 1968\" which says, \"The practice of declaring people FAIR GAME will cease. FAIR GAME may not appear on any Ethics Order. It causes bad public relations. This P/L does not cancel any policy on the treatment or handling of a SP.\"\n\nAccording to a book by Omar Garrison, HCOPL March 7, 1969, was created under pressure by the government of New Zealand. Garrison quotes from the HCOPL, \"We are going in the direction of mild ethics and involvement with the Society\". Garrison then states, \"It was partly on the basis of these policy reforms that the New Zealand Commission of Inquiry recommended that no legislative action be taken against Scientology\". The source of Omar Garrison for this is most likely the Dumbleton-Powles Report, additional data and quotations are found in this report.\n\nIn 1977, top officials of Scientology's \"Guardian's Office\", an internal security force run by Hubbard's wife, Mary Sue Hubbard, admitted that fair game was policy in the GO. (\"U.S. v. Kember\", Budlong Sentencing Memorandum – Undated, 1981).\n\nIn separate cases in 1979 and 1984, attorneys for Scientology argued the Fair Game policy was in fact a core belief of Scientology and as such deserved protection as religious expression.\n\nIn the 1970s, Hubbard continued to codify the policy of \"attacking the attacker\" and assigned a term to used frequently within Scientology: \"dead agenting\". Used as a verb, \"dead agenting\" is described by Hubbard as a technique for countering negative accusations against Scientology by diverting the critical statements and making counter-accusations against the accuser; in other words, to \"attack the attacker\". Hubbard defined the PR (public relations) policy on \"dead agenting\" in a 1974 bulletin:\n\nThe phrase comes from a misunderstanding of the chapter on espionage in \"The Art of War\". The Scientology-sponsored website, religiousfreedomwatch.org, features depictions of so-called \"anti-religious extremists\", most of them critics of Scientology. Featuring photos of the critics and claimed evidence of their personal wrongdoing (sometimes very vague, for example: \"Documentation received by Religious Freedom Watch shows that [Kristi] Wachter paid an individual to carry out a specific project for her, and also instructed this individual to lie about what he was doing in case he was caught\"). The \"Religious Freedom Watch\" site is often cited by alt.religion.scientology users as a contemporary example of \"dead agenting\".\n\nDead agenting has also been carried out by flier campaigns against some critics—using so-called \"DA fliers\". Bonnie Woods, an ex-member who began counseling people involved with Scientology and their families, became a target along with her husband in 1993 when the Church of Scientology started a leaflet operation denouncing her as a \"hate campaigner\" with demonstrators outside their home and around East Grinstead. After a long battle of libel suits, in 1999, the church agreed to issue an apology and to pay £55,000 damages and £100,000 costs to the Woods.\n\n\"R2-45\" is the name given by L. Ron Hubbard to what he described as \"an enormously effective process for exteriorization but its use is frowned upon by this society at this time\". In Scientology doctrine, exteriorization refers to the separation of the thetan (soul) from the body. According to the author Stewart Lamont, Hubbard defined R2-45 as a process by which exteriorization could be produced by shooting a person in the head with a .45 revolver.\n\nThe journalist and author Tony Ortega has suggested R2-45 may have been used neither as a murder order nor as a joke, but as a means of intimidation. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) carried out a lengthy investigation of Scientology in the 1960s, and as part of that interviewed two prominent ex-Scientologists who said they had been sent \"R2-45\" letters. According to FDA records dating from 1970 that Ortega published in 2015, one of the two said he received a letter suggesting he use \"a 45 caliber pistol to exteriorize himself\", while the other \"stated he also received letters indicating he should apply technique R2-45 to himself\". The FDA inspector noted \"[t]his particular technique is a route whereby an individual places a 45 caliber pistol to his head and disassociates himself from his body.\"\n\nWhile no \"R2-45 letters\" have been published, orders to use R2-45 on specific individuals were published in a prominent Scientology magazine. On March 6, 1968, Hubbard issued an internal memo titled \"Racket Exposed\", in which he denounced twelve people as \"Enemies of mankind, the planet and all life\", and ordered \"Any Sea Org member contacting any of them is to use Auditing Process R2-45.\" The memo was subsequently reproduced, with another name added, in the Church of Scientology's internal journal, \"The Auditor\". Another four people were named in a second R2-45 order published in \"The Auditor\" later in 1968. \n\nMuch of the controversy surrounding Scientology is reflected in the long list of legal incidents associated with the organization including the criminal convictions of core members of the Scientology organization.\n\nIn 1978, a number of Scientologists, including L. Ron Hubbard's wife Mary Sue Hubbard (who was second in command in the organization at the time), were convicted of perpetrating what was at the time the largest incident of domestic espionage in the history of the United States, called \"Operation Snow White\". This involved infiltrating, wiretapping, and stealing documents from the offices of Federal attorneys and the Internal Revenue Service. The judge who convicted Mrs. Hubbard and ten accomplices described their attempt to plead freedom of religion in defense:\n\nEleven church staff members, including Mary Sue Hubbard and other highly placed officials, pleaded guilty or were convicted in federal court based on evidence seized in the raids and received sentences from two to six years (some suspended).\n\nOther noteworthy incidents involving criminal accusations and prosecutions against the Church of Scientology include:\n\n\nIn 2007, a 25-year-old woman from Sydney was charged with murdering her father and sister and seriously injuring her mother. Her parents had prevented her from seeking the psychiatric treatment she needed because of their Scientology beliefs.\n\nIn 2012, Debbie Cook, who ran the \"spiritual Mecca\" for seventeen years, came forward and accused the church of repeated accounts of \"screaming, slapping\" and being \"made to stand in a trash and water's poured over you\" in efforts to confess her sins. This was all done in \"The Hole\", located at Scientology's International base in the California Desert. She claims that she was taken there against her will and forced to stay for seven weeks. The church states that she \"voluntarily\" participated in their program of \"religious discipline\".\n\nThe most widely publicized death of one of the organization's members was that of 36-year-old Lisa McPherson while in the care of Scientologists at the Scientology-owned Fort Harrison Hotel, in Clearwater, Florida, in 1995. McPherson, at the time, was displaying symptoms suggesting she was struggling with mental illness; in one case, she removed all of her clothes after being involved in a minor traffic accident, later remarking she had done so in hopes of obtaining counseling. The Church, however, intervened to prevent McPherson from receiving psychiatric treatment and to keep her in Church custody. Records show that she was then placed in a Scientology program, the Introspection Rundown, which was forced isolation used to handle a psychotic episode. Weeks later, she was pronounced dead on arrival at a hospital. The autopsy identified multiple hematomas (bruises), an abrasion on the nose, and lesions that were consistent with \"insect/animal bites\". An autopsy showed that she had died of a pulmonary embolism.\n\nFlorida authorities filed criminal charges against the Church of Scientology, who denied any responsibility for McPherson's death and vigorously contested the charges. The prosecuting attorneys ultimately dropped the criminal case. After four years, a $100 million civil lawsuit filed by Lisa McPherson's family was settled in 2004. The suit resulted in an injunction against the distribution of a film critical of Scientology, \"The Profit\", which the Church claimed was meant to influence the jury. The terms of the settlement were sealed by the court.\n\nAnother crime that received substantial news coverage involved the death of Elli Perkins. This included an installment on the CBS investigative news program \"48 Hours.\n\nPerkins was a mother of two, a professional glass artist, and a Scientologist who lived in Western New York. She was a senior auditor at the Church of Scientology in Buffalo, New York. When her then 24-year-old son Jeremy began to show strange and disturbing behavior, Elli did not seek out psychiatric care but used treatment in accordance with Scientology. Scientologists believe that psychiatry \"doesn't work.\"\n\nFirst, the family sent Jeremy to Scientology's Sea Org in California. He returned home some months later because Sea Org hadn't helped. Found trespassing outside the University at Buffalo on August 14, 2001, Jeremy was arrested and remanded to a local hospital after a court-ordered psychiatric exam confirmed that he had a diagnosis of schizophrenia.\n\nElli Perkins later convinced the court to release her son into her custody so she could seek alternatives to psychiatry. She also refused any treatment with anti-psychotic medications. Defense attorney John Nuchereno said that Jeremy's condition declined over the summer of 2002. He was no longer able to work in the family business. The Church of Scientology ceased efforts to cure Jeremy and classified him as a level III \"Potential Trouble Source.\"\n\nIn the fall of 2002, the family consulted Dr. Conrad Maulfair, an osteopathic physician and Scientologist. Dr. Maulfair concluded that Jeremy needed to be purged of certain chemical toxins in his body. Maulfair said he needed to be \"energized\" through vitamin therapy.\n\nJeremy became suspicious of his mother; he thought the vitamins were poisoning him. In February 2003, Elli took Jeremy to see Albert Brown, a self-taught \"natural healer.\" Elli planned to send Jeremy to live with Brown for treatment. He was to leave for Brown's on March 13, 2003, but days beforehand began to act more aggressively. On the 13th, after a shower he retrieved a steak knife and tried to slit his wrists. Unsuccessful, Jeremy found his mother in the kitchen and attacked her as she spoke to a friend on the phone. Autopsy reports showed that Elli Perkins was stabbed 77 times.\n\nJeremy was charged with second degree murder but found not responsible by reason of mental disease. On January 29, 2004, after NY State Office of Mental Health exams, he was assessed \"Dangerously Mentally Ill\" and committed to a secure facility. Jeremy is on psychotropic medications, which court psychiatrists state have not cured him, but have stabilized his condition.\n\nIn March 2006, an advertisement in \"LA Weekly\" blamed the Church of Scientology for Perkins' violent death. The \"48 Hours\" segment on Perkins' death aired on October 28, 2006. Afterward, CBS reported they had received complaints from Scientologists.\n\nNoah Lottick was an American student of Russian studies who committed suicide on May 11, 1990, by jumping from a 10th-floor hotel window, clutching his only remaining money in his hands. After his death, a controversy arose revolving around his parents' concern over his membership in the Church of Scientology.\n\nNoah Lottick had taken Scientology courses, for which he paid . Lottick's friends and family remarked that after taking these courses he began to act strangely. They stated to \"Time\" magazine that he told them that his Scientologist teachers were telepathic, and that his father's heart attack was purely psychosomatic. His parents said that he visited their home five days before his death, claiming they were spreading \"false rumors\" about him.\n\nLottick's suicide was profiled in a \"Time\" cover story that was highly critical of Scientology, \"The Thriving Cult of Greed and Power\", which received the Gerald Loeb Award, and later appeared in \"Reader's Digest\".\n\nLottick's father, Dr. Edward Lottick, stated that his initial impression of Scientology was that it was similar to Dale Carnegie's techniques. However, after his son's death, his opinion was that the organization is a \"school for psychopaths\". He blamed Scientology for his son's death, although no direct connection was determined. After Dr. Lottick's remarks were published in the media, the Church of Scientology haggled with him over that Noah had allegedly paid to the Church and not utilized for services. The Church claimed Lottick had intended this to be a donation.\n\nThe Church of Scientology sued Richard Behar and \"Time\" magazine for $416 million. Dr and Mrs Lottick submitted affidavits affirming \"the accuracy of each statement in the article\", and stating that Dr Lottick had \"concluded that Scientology therapies were manipulations\". They said that no Scientology staff members attended the funeral of their son. All counts against Behar and \"Time\" were later dismissed. Lottick's father cited his son's suicide as his motivation for researching cults, in his article describing a survey of physicians that he presented to the Pennsylvania State Medical Society.\n\nThe Church of Scientology issued a press release denying any responsibility for Lottick's suicide. Spokesperson Mike Rinder was quoted in the \"St. Petersburg Times\" as saying that Lottick had an argument with his parents four days before his death. Rinder stated, \"I think Ed Lottick should look in the mirror ... I think Ed Lottick made his son's life intolerable.\"\n\nThe Church of Scientology is frequently accused by critics of employing brainwashing.\n\nThe controversy about the existence of cultic brainwashing has become one of the most polarizing issues among cult followers, academic researchers of cults, and cult critics. Parties disagree about the existence of a social process attempting coercive influence, and also disagree about the existence of the social outcome—that people become influenced against their will.\n\nOne alleged example of the Church's possible brainwashing tactics is the Rehabilitation Project Force, to which church staff are assigned to work off alleged wrongdoings under conditions that many critics characterize as degrading. Some of these allegations are presented in Stephen Kent's \"Brainwashing in Scientology's Rehabilitation Project Force (RPF)\". Articles that claim to rebut those charges include Juha Pentikäinen's The Church of Scientology's Rehabilitation Project Force.\n\nCritics of Scientology have also accused L. Ron Hubbard of authoring \"The Brainwashing Manual\", but these accusations have not been confirmed. Hubbard did publish a copy of this manual on two technical bulletins, \"for the benefit of the auditors who may face victims of brainwashing\". Hubbard discussed brainwashing in several of his works, but these, \"expose brainwashing as something that should not be practiced\", and \"the practice of brainwashing could only end up in disaster\".\n\nThe final results of the Anderson Report in 1965 declared:\n\n\"The Board is not concerned to find that the scientology techniques are brainwashing techniques as practiced, so it is understood, in some communist-controlled countries. Scientology techniques are, nevertheless, a kind of brainwashing...The astonishing feature of Scientology is that its techniques and propagation resemble very closely those set out in a book entitled \"Brain-washing\", advertised and sold by the HASI\".\n\nThe Church of Scientology has been criticized for their practice of \"disconnection\" in which Scientologists are directed to sever all contact with family members or friends who criticize the faith. Critics including ex-members and relatives of existing members say that this practice has divided many families. The disconnection policy is considered by critics to be further evidence that the Church is a cult. By making its members entirely dependent upon a social network entirely within the organization, critics assert that Scientologists are kept from exposure to critical perspectives on the church and are put in a situation that makes it extremely difficult for members to leave the church, since apostates will be shunned by the Church and have already been cut off from family and friends.\n\nThe Church of Scientology acknowledges that its members are strongly discouraged from associating with \"enemies of Scientology\", and likens the disconnection policy to the practice of shunning in religions such as the Amish. However, there is a consensus of religious scholars who oppose Scientology's practice:\n\"I just think it would be better for all concerned if they just let them go ahead and get out and everyone goes their own way, and not make such a big deal of it, the policy hurts everybody.\" J. Gordon Melton, Institute for the Study of American Religion, Santa Barbara, California.\n\n\"It has to do with feeling threatened because you're not that big. You do everything you can to keep unity in the group.\" Frank K. Flinn, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.\n\n\"Some people I've talked to, they just wanted to go on with their lives and they wanted to be in touch with their daughter or son or parent. The shunning was just painful. And I don't know what it was accomplishing. And the very terms they use are scary, aren't they?\" Newton Maloney, Fuller Theological Seminary, Pasadena, California.\n\nAndre Tabayoyon, a former Scientologist and Sea Org staffer, testified in a 1994 affidavit that money from not-for-profit Scientology organizations and labor from those organizations (including the Rehabilitation Project Force) had gone to provide special facilities for Scientology celebrities, which were not available to other Scientologists:\n\n\"A Sea Org staffer...was taken along to do personal cooking for Tom Cruise and Miscavige at the expense of Scientology not for profit religious organizations. This left only 3 cooks at Gold to cook for 800 people three times a day...apartment cottages were built for the use of John Travolta, Kirstie Alley, Edgar Winter, Priscilla Presley, and other Scientology celebrities who are carefully prevented from finding out the real truth about the Scientology organization ... Miscavige decided to redo the meadow in beautiful flowers; Tens of thousands of dollars were spent on the project so that Cruise and Kidman could romp there. However, Miscavige inspected the project and didn't like it. So the whole meadow was plowed up, destroyed, replowed and sown with plain grass.\"\n\nTabayoyon's account of the planting of the meadow was supported by another former Scientologist, Maureen Bolstad, who said that a couple of dozen Scientologists including herself were put to work on a rainy night through dawn on the project. \"We were told that we needed to plant a field and that it was to help Tom impress Nicole...but for some mysterious reason it wasn't considered acceptable by Mr. Miscavige. So the project was rejected and they redid it\".\n\nThe nature of Scientology is hotly debated in many countries. The Church of Scientology pursues an extensive public relations campaign arguing Scientology is a \"bona fide\" religion. The organization cites a number of studies and experts who support their position. Critics point out most cited studies were commissioned by Scientology to produce the desired results.\n\nMany countries (including Belgium, Canada, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Mexico, Russia, the United Kingdom), while not prohibiting or limiting the activities of the Church of Scientology, have rejected its applications for tax-exempt, charitable status or recognition as a religious organization; it has been variously judged to be a commercial enterprise or a dangerous cult.\n\nScientology is legally accepted as a religion in the United States and Australia, and enjoys the constitutional protections afforded to religious practice in each country. In October 1993, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service recognized the Church as an \"organization operated exclusively for religious and charitable purposes\". The Church offers the tax exemption as proof that it is a religion. (This subject is examined in the article on the Church of Scientology).\n\nIn 1982, the High Court of Australia ruled the State Government of Victoria lacked the right to declare the Church of Scientology was not a religion. The Court found the issue of belief to be the central feature of religion, regardless of the presence of charlatanism: \"Charlatanism is a necessary price of religious freedom, and if a self-proclaimed teacher persuades others to believe in a religion which he propounds, lack of sincerity or integrity on his part is not incompatible with the religious character of the beliefs, practices and observances accepted by his followers.\"\n\nOther countries to have recognized Scientology as a religion include Spain, Portugal, Italy, Sweden, and New Zealand. The debate continues until today, with a new generation of critics continuing to question Scientology's legitimacy as a religion.\n\nWhile the oft-cited rumor Hubbard made a bar bet with Robert A. Heinlein he could start a cult is unproven, many witnesses have reported Hubbard making statements in their presence starting a religion would be a good way to make money. These statements have led many to believe Hubbard hid his true intentions and was motivated solely by potential financial rewards.\n\nEditor Sam Merwin, for example, recalled a meeting: \"I always knew he was exceedingly anxious to hit big money—he used to say he thought the best way to do it would be to start a cult.\" (December 1946) Writer and publisher Lloyd Arthur Eshbach reported Hubbard saying \"I'd like to start a religion. That's where the money is.\" Writer Theodore Sturgeon reported Hubbard made a similar statement at the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society. Likewise, writer Sam Moskowitz reported in an affidavit during an Eastern Science Fiction Association meeting on November 11, 1948, Hubbard had said \"You don't get rich writing science fiction. If you want to get rich, you start a religion.\" Milton A. Rothman also reported to his son Tony Rothman he heard Hubbard make exactly that claim at a science fiction convention. In 1998, an A&E documentary titled \"Inside Scientology\" shows Lyle Stuart reporting Hubbard stated repeatedly to make money, \"you start a religion.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Visual Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\", ed. Brian Ash, Harmony Books, 1977:\n\nThe following letter, written by L. Ron Hubbard, was discovered by the FBI during its raid on Scientology headquarters. The letter shows Hubbard turned Scientology into a \"religion\" for financial reasons:\n\nDEAR HELEN \n\nRE CLINIC, HAS\n\nThe arrangements that have been made seem a good temporary measure. On a longer look, however, something more equitable will have to be organized. I am not quite sure what we would call the place – probably not a clinic – but I am sure that it ought to be a company, independent of the HAS but fed by the HAS. We don't want a clinic. We want one in operation but not in name. Perhaps we could call it a Spiritual Guidance Center. Think up its name, will you. And we could put in nice desks and our boys in neat blue with diplomas on the walls and 1. knock psychotherapy into history and 2. make enough money to shine up my operating scope and 3. keep the HAS solvent. It is a problem of practical business. I await your reaction on the religion angle. In my opinion, we couldn't get worse public opinion than we have had or have less customers with what we've got to sell. A religious charter would be necessary in Pennsylvania or NJ to make it stick. But I sure could make it stick. We're treating the present time beingness, psychotherapy treats the past and the brain. And brother, that's religion, not mental science.\n\nAn article of Prof. Benjamin Beith-Hallahmi documents the secular aspects of Scientology from Scientology's own writings.\n\nThe Church has taken steps to suppress the Free Zone, the term for a variety of groups and individuals who practice Scientology outside the strictures of the Church of Scientology proper, and shut down dissenters when possible. The CoS has used copyright and trademark laws to attack various Free Zone groups. Accordingly, the Free Zone avoids the use of officially trademarked Scientology words, including 'Scientology' itself. In 2000, the Religious Technology Center unsuccessfully attempted to gain the Web domain www.scientologie.org from the World Intellectual Property Organization, in a legal action against the Free Zone.\n\"Skeptic Magazine\" described the Free Zone as: \"..a group founded by ex-Scientologists to promote L. Ron Hubbard's ideas independent of the COS [Church of Scientology].\" A \"Miami Herald\" article wrote that ex-Scientologists joined the Free Zone because they felt that Church of Scientology leadership had: \"..strayed from Hubbard's original teachings.\" One Free Zone Scientologist identified as \"Safe\" was quoted in \"Salon\" as saying: \"The Church of Scientology does not want its control over its members to be found out by the public and it doesn't want its members to know that they can get scientology outside of the Church of Scientology.\"\n\nIn the past many critics of Scientology have claimed they were harassed by frivolous and vexatious lawsuits.\n\nPaulette Cooper was falsely accused of felony charges as she had been framed by the Church of Scientology's Guardian's Office. Furthermore, her personal life had been intruded upon by Scientologists who had attempted to kill her and/or draw her to suicide in a covert plan known as Operation Freakout brought to light after FBI investigations into other matters (See Operation Snow White).\n\nA prominent example of litigation of its critics is the Church of Scientology's $416 million libel lawsuit against Time Warner as a result of their publication of a highly critical magazine article \"The Thriving Cult of Greed and Power\" by Richard Behar. A public campaign by the Church of Scientology accordingly ensued in an attempt to defame this Time Magazine publication. (See Church of Scientology's response)\n\nGareth Alan Cales is being harassed by the Church of Scientology, including false charges against him and his friends.\n\nSimilarly, the Church of Scientology's legal battle with Gerry Armstrong in Church of Scientology v. Gerald Armstrong spanned two decades and involved a $10 million claim against Armstrong.\n\nIn 2008 the 20-year-old daughter of Olav Gunnar Ballo, a Norwegian member of parliament, had taken a personality test organized by Scientologists in Nice, and received very negative feedback from it. A few hours later she committed suicide. French police started an investigation of the Scientology church. In the wake of the Ballo suicide linked to the personality test, the spokesman for the church in Norway called the link at accusation deeply unfair, and pointing out that the daughter had previously suffered eating disorders and psychiatric troubles.\n\nThe personality test has been condemned by the psychologist Rudy Myrvang. He called the test a recruitment tool, aimed at breaking down a person so that the Scientologists can build the test-taker back up.\n\nBased on the 1993 IRS decision granting Scientology tax-exempt status, the U.S. Department of State formally criticized Germany for discriminating against Scientologists and began to note Scientologists' complaints of harassment and discrimination in its annual Human Rights Reports, starting from the 1993 report. Since then, the U.S. Department of State has repeatedly expressed its concerns over the violation of Scientologists' individual rights posed by \"sect filters\", whereby potential employees are required to divulge any association with Scientology before they are considered for a job. It has also warned that companies and artists associated with Scientology may be subject to \"government-approved discrimination and boycotts\" in Germany. Past targets of such boycotts have included Tom Cruise and jazz pianist Chick Corea.\n\nIn 1997, an open letter to then-German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, published as a newspaper advertisement in the \"International Herald Tribune\", drew parallels between the \"organized oppression\" of Scientologists in Germany and Nazi policies espoused by Germany in the 1930s. The letter was signed by Dustin Hoffman, Goldie Hawn, and a number of other Hollywood celebrities and executives. Commenting on the matter, a spokesman for the U.S. Department of State criticized Germany's treatment of Scientologists and said that Scientologists were indeed discriminated against in Germany, but condemned any comparisons of this treatment to the Nazis' treatment of Jews as extremely inappropriate, an opinion echoed by the United Nations Special Rapporteur on human rights.\n\nGerman officials sharply rejected the accusations. They said that Germany guarantees the freedom of religion, but characterized Scientology as a profit-making enterprise, rather than a religion, and emphasized that precisely because of Germany's Nazi past, Germany took a determined stance against all \"radical cults and sects, including right-wing Nazi groups\", and not just against Scientology. According to a 1997 \"Time\" magazine article, most Germans consider Scientology a subversive organization, with pollsters reporting 70% popular support for banning Scientology in Germany.\n\nIn late 1997, the United States granted asylum to a German Scientologist, Antje Victore, who claimed she would be subject to religious persecution in her homeland. In 2000, the German \"Stern\" magazine published a report asserting that several rejection letters which the woman had submitted as part of her asylum application—ostensibly from potential employers who were rejecting her because she was a Scientologist—had in fact been written by fellow Scientologists at her request and that of the Office of Special Affairs and that she was in personal financial trouble and about to go on trial for tax evasion at the time she applied for asylum. On a 2000 visit to Clearwater, Florida, Ursula Caberta of the Scientology Task Force for the Hamburg Interior Authority likewise alleged that the asylum case had been part of an \"orchestrated effort\" by Scientology undertaken \"for political gain\", and \"a spectacular abuse of the U.S. system\". German expatriate Scientologists resident in Clearwater, in turn, accused Caberta of stoking a \"hate campaign\" in Germany that had \"ruined the lives and fortunes of scores of Scientologists\" and maintained that Scientologists had not \"exaggerated their plight for political gain in the United States\". Mark Rathbun, a top Church of Scientology official, said that although Scientology had not orchestrated the case, \"there would have been nothing improper if it had\".\n\nIn an effort to adhere to Wikipedia policy, the Arbitration Committee of the English Wikipedia decided in late-May 2009 to restrict editing from Church of Scientology Internet Protocol addresses, to prevent self-serving edits by editors within CoS-administered networks. A \"host of anti-Scientologist editors\" were topic-banned as well. The committee concluded that both sides had \"gamed policy\" and resorted to \"battlefield tactics\", with articles on living persons being the \"worst casualties\".\n\nScientology's response to accusations of criminal behavior has been twofold; the church is under attack by an organized conspiracy, and each of the church's critics is hiding a private criminal past. In the first instance, the Church of Scientology has repeatedly stated that it is engaged in an ongoing battle against a massive, worldwide conspiracy whose sole purpose is to \"destroy the Scientology religion.\" Thus, aggressive measures and legal actions are the only way the church has been able to survive in a hostile environment; they sometimes liken themselves to the early Mormons who took up arms and organized militia to defend themselves from persecution.\n\nThe church asserts that the core of the organized anti-Scientology movement is the psychiatric profession, in league with deprogrammers and certain government bodies (including elements within the FBI and the government of Germany.) These conspirators have allegedly attacked Scientology since the earliest days of the church, with the shared goal of creating a docile, mind-controlled population. As an official Scientology website explains:\n\nOn the other hand, L. Ron Hubbard has proclaimed that all critics of Scientology are criminals. Hubbard wrote on numerous occasions that all of Scientology's opponents are seeking to hide their own criminal histories, and the proper course of action to stop these attacks is to \"expose\" the hidden crimes of the attackers. The Church of Scientology does not deny that it vigorously seeks to \"expose\" its critics and enemies; it maintains that all of its critics have criminal histories, and they encourage hatred and \"bigotry\" against Scientology. Hubbard's belief that all critics of Scientology are criminals was summarized in a policy letter written in 1967:\n\nScientology claims that it continues to expand and prosper despite all efforts to prevent it from growing; critics claim that the Church's own statistics contradict its story of continuing growth.\n\nThe Church of Scientology has published a number of responses to criticism available online.\n\nAnalyses of Scientology's counter-accusations and actions against its critics are available on a number of websites, including the critical archive Operation Clambake.\n\nOn January 22, 2013, attorneys for the organization, as well as some of its members, reacted toward the CNN News Group, threatening legal action for its airing of a story covering the release of a book published by Lawrence Wright, entitled 'Going Clear: Scientology, Hollywood, and the Prison of Belief', published earlier the same year. CNN News Group then chose to publish the correspondence, with confidential information redacted, on its web site. The threats were not followed up by lawsuits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5837003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5837003", "title": "Solar air conditioning", "text": "Solar air conditioning\n\nSolar air conditioning refers to any air conditioning (cooling) system that uses solar power.\n\nThis can be done through passive solar, solar thermal energy conversion and photovoltaic conversion (sunlight to electricity). The U.S. Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 created 2008 through 2012 funding for a new solar air conditioning research and development program, which should develop and demonstrate multiple new technology innovations and mass production economies of scale. Solar air conditioning might play an increasing role in zero-energy and energy-plus buildings design.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the most common fluid for absorption cooling was a solution of ammonia and water. Today, the combination of lithium bromide and water is also in common use. One end of the system of expansion/condensation pipes is heated, and the other end gets cold enough to make ice. Originally, natural gas was used as a heat source in the late 19th century. Today, propane is used in recreational vehicle absorption chiller refrigerators. Hot water solar thermal energy collectors can also be used as the modern \"free energy\" heat source.\nA National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) sponsored report in 1976 surveyed solar energy system applications of air conditioning. Techniques discussed included both solar powered (absorption cycle and heat engine / Rankine cycle) and solar related (heat pump) along with an extensive bibliography of related literature.\n\nPhotovoltaics can provide the power for any type of electrically powered cooling be it conventional compressor-based or adsorption/absorption-based, though the most common implementation is with compressors.\nFor small residential and small commercial cooling (less than 5 MWh/a) PV-powered cooling has been the most frequently implemented solar cooling technology. The reason for this is debated, but commonly suggested reasons include incentive structuring, lack of residential-sized equipment for other solar-cooling technologies, the advent of more efficient electrical coolers, or ease of installation compared to other solar-cooling technologies (like radiant cooling).\n\nSince PV cooling's cost effectiveness depends largely on the cooling equipment and given the poor efficiencies in electrical cooling methods until recently it has not been cost effective without subsidies. Using more efficient electrical cooling methods and allowing longer payback schedules is changing that scenario.\n\nFor example, a 100,000 BTU U.S. Energy Star rated air conditioner with a high seasonal energy efficiency ratio (SEER) of 14 requires around 7 kW of electric power for full cooling output on a hot day. This would require over a 20 kW solar photovoltaic electricity generation system with storage.\n\nA solar-tracking 7 kW photovoltaic system would probably have an installed price well over $20,000 USD (with PV equipment prices currently falling at roughly 17% per year). Infrastructure, wiring, mounting, and NEC code costs may add up to an additional cost; for instance a 3120 watt solar panel grid tie system has a panel cost of $0.99/watt peak, but still costs ~$2.2/watt hour peak. Other systems of different capacity cost even more, let alone battery backup systems, which cost even more.\n\nA more efficient air conditioning system would require a smaller, less-expensive photovoltaic system. A high-quality geothermal heat pump installation can have a SEER in the range of 20 (±). A 100,000 BTU SEER 20 air conditioner would require less than 5 kW while operating.\n\nNewer and lower power technology including reverse inverter DC heat pumps can achieve SEER ratings up to 26.\n\nThere are new non-compressor-based electrical air conditioning systems with a SEER above 20 coming on the market. New versions of phase-change indirect evaporative coolers use nothing but a fan and a supply of water to cool buildings without adding extra interior humidity (such as at McCarran Airport Las Vegas Nevada). In dry arid climates with relative humidity below 45% (about 40% of the continental U.S.) indirect evaporative coolers can achieve a SEER above 20, and up to SEER 40. A 100,000 BTU indirect evaporative cooler would only need enough photovoltaic power for the circulation fan (plus a water supply).\n\nA less-expensive partial-power photovoltaic system can reduce (but not eliminate) the monthly amount of electricity purchased from the power grid for air conditioning (and other uses). With American state government subsidies of $2.50 to $5.00 USD per photovoltaic watt, the amortized cost of PV-generated electricity can be below $0.15 per kWh. This is currently cost effective in some areas where power company electricity is now $0.15 or more. Excess PV power generated when air conditioning is not required can be sold to the power grid in many locations, which can reduce (or eliminate) annual net electricity purchase requirement. (See Zero-energy building)\n\nSuperior energy efficiency can be designed into new construction (or retrofitted to existing buildings). Since the U.S. Department of Energy was created in 1977, their Weatherization Assistance Program has reduced heating-and-cooling load on 5.5 million low-income affordable homes an average of 31%. A hundred million American buildings still need improved weatherization. Careless conventional construction practices are still producing inefficient new buildings that need weatherization when they are first occupied.\n\nIt is fairly simple to reduce the heating-and-cooling requirement for new construction by one half. This can often be done at no additional net cost, since there are cost savings for smaller air conditioning systems and other benefits.\n\nEarth sheltering or Earth cooling tubes can take advantage of the ambient temperature of the Earth to reduce or eliminate conventional air conditioning requirements. In many climates where the majority of humans live, they can greatly reduce the buildup of undesirable summer heat, and also help remove heat from the interior of the building. They increase construction cost, but reduce or eliminate the cost of conventional air conditioning equipment.\n\nEarth cooling tubes are not cost effective in hot humid tropical environments where the ambient Earth temperature approaches human temperature comfort zone. A solar chimney or photovoltaic-powered fan can be used to exhaust undesired heat and draw in cooler, dehumidified air that has passed by ambient Earth temperature surfaces. Control of humidity and condensation are important design issues.\n\nA geothermal heat pump uses ambient Earth temperature to improve SEER for heat and cooling. A deep well recirculates water to extract ambient Earth temperature (typically at 2 gallons of water per ton per minute). These \"open loop\" systems were the most common in early systems, however water quality could cause damage to the coils in the heat pump and shorten the life of the equipment. Another method is a closed loop system, in which a loop of tubing is run down a well or wells, or in trenches in the lawn, to cool an intermediate fluid. When wells are used, they are back-filled with Bentonite or another grout material to ensure good thermal conductivity to the earth.\n\nIn the past the fluid of choice was a 50/50 mixture of propylene glycol because it is non-toxic unlike ethylene glycol (which is used in car radiators). Propylene glycol is viscous, and would eventually gum up some parts in the loop(s), so it has fallen out of favor. Today, the most common transfer agent is a mixture of water and ethyl alcohol (ethanol).\n\nAmbient earth temperature is much lower than peak summer air temperature, and much higher than the lowest extreme winter air temperature. Water is 25 times more thermally conductive than air, so it is much more efficient than an outside air heat pump, (which becomes less effective when the outside temperature drops in Winter).\n\nThe same type of geothermal well can be used without a heat pump but with greatly diminished results. Ambient Earth temperature water is pumped through a shrouded radiator (like an automobile radiator). Air is blown across the radiator, which cools without a compressor-based air conditioner. Photovoltaic solar electric panels produce electricity for the water pump and fan, eliminating conventional air-conditioning utility bills. This concept is cost-effective, as long as the location has ambient Earth temperature below the human thermal comfort zone (not the tropics).\n\nAir can be passed over common, solid desiccants (like silica gel or zeolite) or liquid desiccants (like lithium bromide/chloride) to draw moisture from the air to allow an efficient mechanical or evaporative cooling cycle. The desiccant is then regenerated by using solar thermal energy to dehumidfy, in a cost-effective, low-energy-consumption, continuously repeating cycle. A photovoltaic system can power a low-energy air circulation fan, and a motor to slowly rotate a large disk filled with desiccant.\n\nEnergy recovery ventilation systems provide a controlled way of ventilating a home while minimizing energy loss. Air is passed through an \"enthalpy wheel\" (often using silica gel) to reduce the cost of heating ventilated air in the winter by transferring heat from the warm inside air being exhausted to the fresh (but cold) supply air. In the summer, the inside air cools the warmer incoming supply air to reduce ventilation cooling costs. This low-energy fan-and-motor ventilation system can be cost-effectively powered by photovoltaics, with enhanced natural convection exhaust up a solar chimney - the downward incoming air flow would be forced convection (advection).\n\nA desiccant like calcium chloride can be mixed with water to create an attractive recirculating waterfall, that dehumidifies a room using solar thermal energy to regenerate the liquid, and a PV-powered low-rate water pump.\n\nActive solar cooling wherein solar thermal collectors provide input energy for a desiccant cooling system. There are several commercially available systems that blow air through a desiccant impregnated medium for both the dehumidification and the regeneration cycle. The solar heat is one way that the regeneration cycle is powered. In theory packed towers can be used to form a counter-current flow of the air and the liquid desiccant but are not normally employed in commercially available machines. Preheating of the air is shown to greatly enhance desiccant regeneration. The packed column yields good results as a dehumidifier/regenerator, provided pressure drop can be reduced with the use of suitable packing.\n\nIn this type of cooling solar thermal energy is not used directly to create a cold environment or drive any direct cooling processes. Instead, solar building design aims at slowing the rate of heat transfer into a building in the summer, and improving the removal of unwanted heat. It involves a good understanding of the mechanisms of heat transfer: heat conduction, convective heat transfer, and thermal radiation, the latter primarily from the sun.\n\nFor example, a sign of poor thermal design is an attic that gets hotter in summer than the peak outside air temperature. This can be significantly reduced or eliminated with a cool roof or a green roof, which can reduce the roof surface temperature by 70 °F (40 °C) in summer. A radiant barrier and an air gap below the roof will block about 97% of downward radiation from roof cladding heated by the sun.\n\nPassive solar cooling is much easier to achieve in new construction than by adapting existing buildings. There are many design specifics involved in passive solar cooling. It is a primary element of designing a zero energy building in a hot climate.\n\nThe following are common technologies in use for solar thermal closed-loop air conditioning.\n\nActive solar cooling uses solar thermal collectors to provide solar energy to thermally driven chillers (usually adsorption or absorption chillers). Solar energy heats a fluid that provides heat to the generator of an absorption chiller and is recirculated back to the collectors. The heat provided to the generator drives a cooling cycle that produces chilled water. The chilled water produced is used for large commercial and industrial cooling.\n\nSolar thermal energy can be used to efficiently cool in the summer, and also heat domestic hot water and buildings in the winter. Single, double or triple iterative absorption cooling cycles are used in different solar-thermal-cooling system designs. The more cycles, the more efficient they are. Absorption chillers operate with less noise and vibration than compressor-based chillers, but their capital costs are relatively high.\n\nEfficient absorption chillers nominally require water of at least . Common, inexpensive flat-plate solar thermal collectors only produce about water. High temperature flat plate, concentrating (CSP) or evacuated tube collectors are needed to produce the higher temperature transfer fluids required. In large scale installations there are several projects successful both technical and economical in operation worldwide including, for example, at the headquarters of Caixa Geral de Depósitos in Lisbon with solar collectors and 545 kW cooling power or on the Olympic Sailing Village in Qingdao/China. In 2011 the most powerful plant at Singapore's new constructed United World College will be commissioned (1500 kW).\n\nThese projects have shown that flat plate solar collectors specially developed for temperatures over (featuring double glazing, increased backside insulation, etc.) can be effective and cost efficient. Where water can be heated well above , it can be stored and used when the sun is not shining.\n\nThe Audubon Environmental Center at the Ernest E. Debs Regional Park in Los Angeles has an example solar air conditioning installation, which failed fairly soon after commissioning and is no longer being maintained. The Southern California Gas Co. (The Gas Company) is also testing the practicality of solar thermal cooling systems at their Energy Resource Center (ERC) in Downey, California. Solar Collectors from Sopogy and Cogenra were installed on the rooftop at the ERC and are producing cooling for the building’s air conditioning system. Masdar City in the United Arab Emirates is also testing a double-effect absorption cooling plant using Sopogy parabolic trough collectors, Mirroxx Fresnel array and TVP Solar high-vacuum solar thermal panels.\n\nFor 150 years, absorption chillers have been used to make ice (before the electric light bulbs were invented). This ice can be stored and used as an \"ice battery\" for cooling when the sun is not shining, as it was in the 1995 Hotel New Otani Tokyo in Japan. Mathematical models are available in the public domain for ice-based thermal energy storage performance calculations.\n\nThe ISAAC Solar Icemaker is an intermittent solar ammonia-water absorption cycle. The ISAAC uses a parabolic trough solar collector and a compact and efficient design to produce ice with no fuel or electric input, and with no moving parts.\n\nProviders of solar cooling systems include ChillSolar, SOLID, Sopogy, Cogenra, Mirroxx and TVP Solar for commercial installations and ClimateWell, Fagor-Rotartica, SorTech and Daikin mostly for residential systems. Cogenra uses solar co-generation to produce both thermal and electric energy that can be used for cooling.\n\nThe main reasons for employing concentrating collectors in solar cooling systems are: high efficient air-conditioning through coupling with double/triple effect chillers; and solar refrigeration serving industrial end-users, possibly in combination with process heat and steam. \n\nConcerning industrial applications, several studies in the recent years highlighted that there is a high potential for refrigeration (temperatures below 0°C) in different areas of the globe (e.g., the Mediterranean, Central America). However, this can be achieved by ammonia/ water absorption chillers requiring high temperature heat input at the generator, in a range (120 ÷ 180 °C) which can only be satisfied by concentrating solar collectors. Moreover, several industrial applications require both cooling and steam for processes, and concentrating solar collectors can be very advantageous in the sense that their use is maximized\n\nGoals of zero-energy buildings include sustainable, green building technologies that can significantly reduce, or eliminate, net annual energy bills. The supreme achievement is the totally off-the-grid autonomous building that does not have to be connected to utility companies. In hot climates with significant degree days of cooling requirement, leading-edge solar air conditioning will be an increasingly important critical success factor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7580086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7580086", "title": "Substitute checks in the United States", "text": "Substitute checks in the United States\n\nA substitute check (also called an Image Replacement Document or IRD) is a negotiable instrument used to represent the digital reproduction of an original paper check. In the United States, as a negotiable payment instrument, a substitute check maintains the status of a \"legal check\" in lieu of the original paper check as authorized by the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (also known as the \"Check 21 Act\"). Instead of presenting the original paper checks, financial institutions and payment processing centers electronically transmit data from a substitute check by either the settlement process through the United States Federal Reserve System or by clearing the deposit based on a private agreement between member financial institutions of a clearinghouse that operates under the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC).\n\nSubstitute checks are recognized as legal checks as long as the instruments meet specific requirements. These requirements include the faithful reproduction of the paper check and warranty of the instrument by the \"reconverting bank\"—the financial institution that created the substitute check or the first financial institution that transferred or presented it during the check clearing process. Substitute checks are also subject to the UCC, existing federal and state check laws, and regulations specific to consumer rights that affect the acceptance of these instruments. Although a substitute check is subject to the UCC and existing state and federal check laws, the Check 21 Act takes precedence over these other laws and regulations for this instrument.\n\nThe Accredited Standards Committee X9 (ASC X9), a standards development committee accredited by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), maintains, promotes, and supports technical financial standards for procedures, delivery, and transactions for financial products and services that include Image Replacement Documents, and other financial instruments. American National Standard (ANS) X9.100-140 covers specifications for the content, processing, and quality of Image Replacement Documents specifically. \n\nCertain standards that exist for paper checks also apply to Image Replacement Documents. These standards include ANS X9.100-160-2 (Magnetic Ink Printing (MICR) Part 2 External Processing Code (EPC) Field Use), ANS X9.100-181 (Specifications for TIFF Image Format for Image Exchange), ANS X9.100-187 (Specifications for Electronic Exchange of Check and Image Data - Domestic), and Draft Standard for Trial Use (DSTU) X9.37 (Electronic Exchange of Check and Image Data).\n\nUnder the Check 21 Act, all U.S. paper checks and check-like instruments are eligible for truncation and reconversion to substitute checks, including consumer (personal) checks, commercial (business) checks, money orders, traveler's checks, cash advance or convenience checks tied to credit and charge card accounts, controlled disbursement checks, and payable through drafts, in addition to government warrants and U.S. Treasury checks. The Check 21 Act permits any financial institution (such as a commercial bank or credit union) that participates in the check collection process to remove or truncate the original paper check from the forward collection or return process and reconvert the paper check to a substitute check without first requiring an existing agreement between the bank of first deposit () and the \"paying bank.\"\n\nThe elimination of the paper checks from the clearing process saves the banking and treasury management industries handling, sorting, transporting, storing, safeguarding, and mailing costs. After the financial institution truncates the original paper check and reconverts it to a substitute check, the financial institution can store or archive the paper check, return the paper check to its own customer according to state law, or later destroy the paper check.\n\nA properly prepared substitute check is considered the \"legal equivalent\" of the original paper check that can be accepted for payment or proof of payment in the same manner as the original check. Every substitute check must adhere to the following requirements before it can be recognized as the legal equivalent of the original check:\n\n\nImage statements that include a series of pictures or images of original paper checks and/or substitute checks, photocopies of the original checks, and images of checks posted online are not recognized as the legal equivalents of substitute checks. Unlike a substitute check, a photocopy of a check cannot be presented through the check clearing process for settlement because the photocopy of the check does not adhere strictly to the requirements for substitute checks under the Check 21 Act.\n\nSince substitute checks are considered legal checks, substitute checks are subject to existing check laws and regulations. Other laws and regulations that govern substitute checks in the United States include the Expedited Funds Availability Act, Article 3 (Negotiable Instruments), and Article 4 (Bank Deposits and Collections) of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), along with a variety of state and federal regulatory laws. U.S. federal laws that also affect substitute checks include Federal Reserve regulations that provide for recrediting the amount of the substitute check in the case of fraud and duplicate payments caused by settlement of both the substitute check and the original check used for creating the substitute check. If any state law, federal law, or provision of the UCC conflicts with the Check 21 Act, the Check 21 Act takes precedence to the extent of the inconsistencies among those laws and provisions.\n\nEach substitute check processed for forward collection is encoded with a \"4\" as the External Processing Code (EPC) in position 44 of the MICR line as required under ANS X9.90. An example of the forward collection process for substitute checks involves the following steps for financial institutions that process deposits through the Federal Reserve System:\n\n\nAny financial institution that participates in the forward collection (or return) process can become the reconverting financial institution if it creates the substitute check for transmittal and settlement.\n\nIf a substitute check must be returned unpaid because of insufficient funds (a dishonored or bounced check), the paying bank (Bank 2) stamps the item NSF (non-sufficient funds) as the reason for the return. In this case, Bank 2 encodes a \"5\" as the EPC on the MICR line to identify the substitute check according to ANS X9.90, along with the routing number of the depository financial institution and the dollar amount of the substitute check. Bank 2 encodes this information on a return strip, perforated strip, or carrier document that the financial institution attaches to the unpaid substitute check. The paying bank then returns the unpaid substitute check through the routing process to the BOFD (Bank 1) for further handling. Once Bank 1 receives the returned substitute check, the financial institution issues a charge back notice to its customer who deposited or offered the check for settlement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43778556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43778556", "title": "Taxation in Cyprus", "text": "Taxation in Cyprus\n\nTaxes in Cyprus are levied by both the central and local governments. Tax revenue stood at 39.2% of GDP in 2012. The most important revenue sources are the income tax, social security, value-added tax and corporate tax, and are all collected by the central government.\n\nIncome tax is levied on a progressive rate. Current brackets vary from 0% to 35% in the tax rates for 2014. Furthermore, various tax allowances apply for trade union fees, donation to charities. The tax brackets for the year 2014 are:\nEmployment income is also subject to various social security contributions. Contributions are subject to a ceiling, for the year 2014 the maximum amount of insurable earnings has been set to €54396 per year. Employees pay 7.8% of their wage and employers contribute 11.5% of the corresponding wage.\n\nValue added tax applies to most sales of goods and services. The standard rate applies at 19% in 2014, up from 17% since 2013. A lower rate of 9% applies to groceries, books and hotel services. The Cyprus VAT is part of the European Union value added tax system. Certain goods and services are exempt from VAT. This includes exports, financial services, rent, etc.\n\nCorporate taxes are levied at a rate of 12.5%. Various deductions apply including interest, cost of buying other companies, and employer's cost to social security.\n"}
{"id": "23852417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23852417", "title": "United States v. Seale", "text": "United States v. Seale\n\nUnited States v. Seale is a federal criminal case in the United States, in which Ku Klux Klan member James Ford Seale was prosecuted and convicted for his role in the racially motivated murders in 1964 of two black teens.\n\nThe case was procedurally unusual in that it was initiated in 2007, and it was unclear whether the statute of limitations had expired due to revision of the governing criminal statute in the interim. The trial court ruled against Seale on the issue, which was affirmed by an evenly divided appellate court. The appellate court then took the highly unusual step of seeking certification of the legal question to the Supreme Court of the United States, seeking guidance on whether the revisions retroactively changed the applicable limitations period. The Supreme Court dismissed the certification without comment.\n\nThe case has its beginnings in the 1964 kidnapping of two black teenagers. After they had been beaten, they had weights attached and were thrown into the Mississippi River to drown. After an investigation, James Ford Seale and another man, allegedly members of the Ku Klux Klan, were indicted for the murder. The charges were dropped because, it was later alleged, the police were colluding with the Klan. Nevertheless, the House Committee on Un-American Activities called Seale to testify and placed its belief that he had committed the crime in its records. Seale then dropped off the radar, and was thought dead until 2005. In 2007, he was indicted by the federal government for the crime.\n\nThe federal kidnapping statute doesn't specify a time limit on prosecutions, so the general limits of 18 U.S.C. §§ 3281 and\n3282 supply the time limit on prosecution, if there is any. There is no time limit on a capital crime (section 3281), but non-capital crimes are subject to a five-year statute of limitations (section 3282). Seale moved to dismiss the indictment on the theory that the latter applied to him. Although kidnapping was a capital offense in 1964, Congress detached the death penalty from it in the mid-1970s in response to \"United States v. Jackson\", 390 U.S. 570 (1968), and \"Furman v. Georgia\", 408 U.S. 238 (1972). This should be given retroactive effect, Seale contended, making his offense subject to section 3282's five year limit, and the indictment accordingly untimely. The district court rejected this argument. The case proceeded to trial, the jury found Seale guilty on all counts (helped, no doubt, by an FBI agent's testimony that Seale had admitted the crime after his arrest), and three life sentences ensued.\n\nOn appeal, Seale raised seven issues, but a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit decided only one of them. It embraced Seale's argument that the prosecution was time-barred; because that decision terminated the case, the panel did not address the remaining issues. The full Fifth Circuit agreed to hear the case en banc, vacating the panel's decision. Although the en banc court decided to hear the case, however, it could not decide \"how\" to decide the case, dividing nine to nine. The upshot was that the panel opinion was vacated, and the district court's denial of Seale's motion was nominally affirmed without opinion. The case was remanded to the panel for consideration of the remaining six issues raised on appeal. \n\nRather than await the panel's decision or appeal, Seale asked the Fifth Circuit to invoke a rarely used procedure. 28 U.S.C. § 1254(2) and Supreme Court Rule 19 allow a federal court of appeals to certify a question to the Supreme Court, bypassing (to an extent) the usual appellate process. The procedure is not commonly used; only four cases certified have been accepted by the court in more than sixty years, the last one in 1981. Nevertheless, on Seale's motion, a majority of the Fifth Circuit agreed to certify the question of whether section 3281 or 3282 is controlling for a kidnapping that occurred in 1964.\n\nJudge Harold DeMoss, writing for the majority, premised certification both on the unusual posture of the particular case and its implications for the broader considerations at issue, noting that the government is investigating several other cases from the 1960s that may raise the same question of time limits. Writing for the four dissenters, Chief Judge Edith Jones noted that the Supreme Court was unlikely to take the case, that the Department of Justice had not made it clear that other cases involving the same question are in the pipeline, as the majority had contended, and that certification was inappropriate when the panel might dispose of the case on other grounds on remand.\n\nIt is in the discretion of the Supreme Court to answer certified questions or not. The court has indicated that such actions are disfavored, and it has rarely taken such cases, but such cases have been taken before.\n\nThe Supreme Court dismissed the certified question on November 2, 2009. In a statement respecting the dismissal joined by Justice Antonin Scalia, Justice John Paul Stevens wrote:\n\nThe case will now return to the District Court for consideration of the residuum of issues, per the Fifth Circuit's original \"en banc\" decision.\n\n"}
{"id": "45116490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45116490", "title": "User activity monitoring", "text": "User activity monitoring\n\nIn the field of information security, user activity monitoring (UAM) is the monitoring and recording of user actions. UAM captures user actions, including the use of applications, windows opened, system commands executed, check boxes clicked, text entered/edited, URLs visited and nearly every other on-screen event to protect data by ensuring that employees and contractors are staying within their assigned tasks, and posing no risk to the organization.\n\nUAM software can deliver video-like playback of user activity and process the videos into user activity logs that keep step-by-step records of user actions that can be searched and analyzed to investigate any out-of-scope activities.\n\nThe need for UAM rose due to the increase in security incidents that directly or indirectly involve user credentials, exposing company information or sensitive files. In 2014, there were 761 data breaches in the United States, resulting in over 83 million exposed customer and employee records. With 76% of these breaches resulting from weak or exploited user credentials, UAM has become a significant component of IT infrastructure. The main populations of users that UAM aims to mitigate risks with are:\n\nContractors are used in organizations to complete information technology operational tasks. Remote vendors that have access to company data are risks. Even with no malicious intent, an external user like a contractor is a major security liability.\n\n70% of regular business users admitted to having access to more data than necessary. Generalized accounts give regular business users access to classified company data. This makes insider threats a reality for any business that uses generalized accounts.\n\nAdministrator accounts are heavily monitored due to the high profile nature of their access. However, current log tools can generate “log fatigue” on these admin accounts. Log fatigue is the overwhelming sensation of trying to handle a vast amount of logs on an account as a result of too many user actions. Harmful user actions can easily be overlooked with thousands of user actions being compiled every day.\n\nAccording to the Verizon Data Breach Incident Report, “The first step in protecting your data is in knowing where it is and who has access to it.” In today’s IT environment, “there is a lack of oversight and control over how and who among employees has access to confidential, sensitive information.” This apparent gap is one of many factors that have resulted in a major number of security issues for companies.\n\nMost companies that use UAM usually separate the necessary aspects of UAM into three major components.\n\nVisual Forensics involves creating a visual summary of potentially hazardous user activity. Each user action is logged, and recorded. Once a user session is completed, UAM has created both a written record and a visual record, whether it be screen-captures or video of exactly what a user has done. This written record differs from that of a SIEM or logging tool, because it captures data at a user-level not at a system level –providing plain English logs rather than SysLogs (originally created for debugging purposes). These textual logs are paired with the corresponding screen-captures or video summaries. Using these corresponding logs and images, the visual forensics component of UAM allows for organizations to search for exact user actions in case of a security incident.\nIn the case of a security threat, i.e. a data breach, Visual Forensics are used to show exactly what a user did, and everything leading up to the incident. Visual Forensics can also be used to provide evidence to any law enforcement that investigate the intrusion.\n\nUser activity alerting serves the purpose of notifying whoever operates the UAM solution to a mishap or misstep concerning company information. Real-time alerting enables the console administrator to be notified the moment an error or intrusion occurs. Alerts are aggregated for each user to provide a user risk profile and threat ranking. Alerting is customizable based on combinations of users, actions, time, location, and access method. Alerts can be triggered simply such as opening an application, or entering a certain keyword or web address. Alerts can also be customized based on user actions within an application, such as deleting or creating a user and executing specific commands.\n\nUser behavior analytics add an additional layer of protection that will help security professionals keep an eye on the weakest link in the chain. By monitoring user behavior, with the help of dedicated software that analyzes exactly what the user does during their session, security professionals can attach a risk factor to the specific users and/or groups, and immediately be alerted with a red flag warning when a high-risk user does something that can be interpreted as a high-risk action such as exporting confidential customer information, performing large database queries that are out of the scope of their role, accessing resources that they shouldn’t be accessing and so forth.\n\nUAM collects user data by recording activity by every user on applications, web pages and internal systems and databases. UAM spans all access levels and access strategies (RDP, SSH, Telnet, ICA, direct console login, etc.…). Some UAM solutions pair with Citrix and VMware environments.\n\nUAM solutions transcribe all documented activities into user activity logs. UAM logs match up with video-playbacks of concurrent actions. Some examples of items logged are names of applications run, titles of pages opened, URLs, text (typed, edited, copied/pasted), commands, and scripts.\n\nUAM uses screen-recording technology that captures individual user actions. Each video-like playback is saved and accompanied by a user activity log. Playbacks differ from traditional video playback to screen scraping, which is the compiling of sequential screen shots into a video like replay. The user activity logs combined with the video-like playback provides a searchable summary of all user actions. This enables companies to not only read, but also view exactly what a particular user did on company systems.\n\nSome companies and employees raised issue with the user privacy aspect of UAM. They believe employees will resist the idea of having their actions monitored, even if it is being done for security purposes. In reality, most UAM strategies address these concerns.\n\nWhile it is possible to monitor every single user action, the purpose of UAM systems is not to snoop on employee browsing history. UAM solutions use policy-based activity recording, which enables the console administrator to program exactly what is and isn’t monitored.\n\nMany regulations require a certain level of UAM while others only require logs of activity for audit purposes. UAM meets a variety of regulatory compliance requirements (HIPAA, ISO 27001, SOX, PCI etc.…). UAM is typically implemented for the purpose of audits and compliance, to serve as a way for companies to make their audits easier and more efficient. An audit information request for information on user activity can be met with UAM. Unlike normal log or SIEM tools, UAM can help speed up an audit process by building the controls necessary to navigate an increasingly complex regulatory environment. The ability to replay user actions provides support for determining the impact on regulated information during security incident response.\n\nUAM has two deployment models. Appliance-based monitoring approaches that use dedicated hardware to conduct monitoring by looking at network traffic. Software-based monitoring approaches that use software agents installed on the nodes accessed by users.\n\nMore commonly, software requires the installation of an agent on systems (servers, desktops, VDI servers, terminal servers) across which users you want to monitor. These agents capture user activity and reports information back to a central console for storage and analysis. These solutions may be quickly deployed in a phased manner by targeting high-risk users and systems with sensitive information first, allowing the organization to get up and running quickly and expand to new user populations as the business requires.\n"}
{"id": "40849322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849322", "title": "Van Wetten v Bosch", "text": "Van Wetten v Bosch\n\nIn Van Wetten v Bosch, an important case in the South African law of succession, Van Wetten was the sister of Tertius Bosch, a cricketer who had died of Guillain–Barré syndrome. Van Wetten approached the court to declare a document written by the deceased to be his valid will. The deceased had a previous joint will with his wife in which they had nominated each other as the sole heirs of their respective estates. After the joint will was concluded, and before the birth of their second child, Bosch wrote a series of notes regarding his wife’s infidelity; one of these handwritten notes stated that his oldest son was his sole heir. The court held that it was clear in the note, and in light of the surrounding circumstances, that Bosch had intended to disinherit his wife, so the court declared the note to be a valid will.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4967839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4967839", "title": "WIPO Convention", "text": "WIPO Convention\n\nThe WIPO Convention (formally, the Convention establishing the World Intellectual Property Organization) is the multilateral treaty that established the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO).\n\nThe Convention was signed at Stockholm, Sweden, on 14 July 1967 and entered into force on 26 April 1970. As of February 2018, the convention has 191 parties: 188 UN member states plus the Cook Islands, the Holy See and Niue. The five UN member states that have not ratified the WIPO Convention are:\nThe Convention is written in English, French, Russian and Spanish, all texts being equally authentic. The Convention was amended on 28 September 1979.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42271443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42271443", "title": "Wen and wu", "text": "Wen and wu\n\nWén 文 and wǔ 武 - a conceptual pair in Chinese philosophy and political culture describing opposition and complementarity of civil ① and military ② realms of government. Differentiation between \"wen\" and \"wu\" was engaged in discussions on criminal punishment, administrative control, creation and reproduction of social order, education and moral transformation.\n\nThe concept was formed during the Chunqiu and Warring States periods, and best articulated in the 3rd or 2nd century BCE. However, until recently it was not much discussed by the Western scholars because of ① their aberrated perception of the importance of Confucianism in the pre-imperial and early imperial era, and ② their understanding of Confucianism as pacifist in its nature. An example of the last is provided by John K. Fairbank: “Warfare was disesteemed in Confucianism... The resort to warfare (\"wu\") was an admission of bankruptcy in the pursuit of \"wen\" [civility or culture]. Consequently, it should be a last resort... Herein lies the pacifist bias of the Chinese tradition... Expansion through \"wen\"... was natural and proper; whereas expansion by \"wu\", brute force and conquest, was never to be condoned.”\n\nThe posthumous names of the Zhou dynasty (1046-256 BCE) founders, King Wen and King Wu, represent the two terms as standing in the \"father-and-son\" relationship. Since the conquest of Shang and creation of the Zhou imperial order were the most discussed events of the classical era, the two impersonated terms had very broad currency. However, their origin is presently impossible to pinpoint.\n\n\"Shuoyuan\", compiled by Liu Xiang (77-6 BCE, Han dynasty), gives a classical example of the terms' balancing against each other: \n\nKing Cheng enfeoffed Bo Qin [the Duke of Zhou's son] as the Duke of Lu. Summoning him, he addressed him, saying: \"Do you know the Way of acting as the ruler over the people? ... Should you possess the civil but lack the martial, you will have no means to awe those below. Should you possess the martial but lack the civil, the people will fear you but not draw close. If the civil and martial are implemented together, then your awe-inspiring virtue will be achieved.\"\n\n\n"}
