{"id": "52458691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52458691", "title": "501(h) election", "text": "501(h) election\n\nA 501(h) election or Conable election is a procedure in United States tax law that allows a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization to participate in lobbying limited only by the financial expenditure on that lobbying, regardless of its overall extent. This allows organizations taking the 501(h) election to potentially perform a large amount of lobbying if it is done using volunteer labor or through inexpensive means. The 501(h) election is available to most types of 501(c)(3) organizations that are not churches or private foundations. It was introduced by Representative Barber Conable as part of the Tax Reform Act of 1976 and codified as , and the corresponding Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations were finalized in 1990.\n\n501(c)(3) organizations, named after the section of the Internal Revenue Code that defines them, are the most common category of nonprofit organization in the United States. They make up 74% of all tax-exempt organizations as of 2013, encompassing organizations with charitable, educational, or religious missions.\n\nBy default, 501(c)(3) organizations are subject to a provision that \"no substantial part of the activities [may be] carrying on propaganda, or otherwise attempting, to influence legislation\". This test, called the substantial part test, is subjective and not precisely defined by the IRS, making it difficult for organizations engaging in policy advocacy to determine whether they are in compliance with the law. Under the 501(h) election, this is replaced with an objective expenditure test based only on the annual financial expenditure, with no other limits on the actual extent of the lobbying activities. An organization may take the 501(h) election by filing a one-page form with the IRS, which remains in effect until revoked by the organization. The 501(h) election is not available to churches or to private foundations.\n\nLobbying is defined as attempting to influence legislation, and is divided into two categories. The first, direct lobbying, occurs through communication with any member or staff of Congress, or of a state or local legislature, or any government official participating in the formulation of legislation. The second, grassroots lobbying, is attempting to affect the opinion of the general public on legislation, although some communications to an organization's own members are excluded from this classification.\n\nThe limit on lobbying expenditure is calculated as a fraction of the organization's total tax-exempt expenditures. For organizations with $500,000 or less of total tax-exempt expenditures in a given year, no more than 20% of that amount may be spent on lobbying. Decreasing percentages are allowed for organizations with higher tax-exempt expenditures, with an absolute spending cap of $1,000,000 eventually being reached. Lobbying expenses above the allowed amount are subject to a 25% excise tax, and excessive lobbying over a four-year period may lead to loss of tax-exempt status. This cap applies to the sum of direct and grassroots lobbying expenses. Grassroots lobbying is also subject to its own limit, which is one quarter of the total lobbying cap. Regardless of their 501(h) status, 501(c)(3) organizations may not participate in electoral campaigns or support specific candidates for office, a prohibition that has been in effect since the passage of the Johnson Amendment in 1954. Also, funds derived from federal government or private foundation grants or contracts may never be used for lobbying.\n\nThe expenditure caps provide a safe harbor for non-profit organizations engaging in policy advocacy. Because the limitation is expressed solely in terms of dollar amounts, organizations can effectively perform a large amount of lobbying if it is done through volunteer labor or through inexpensive media such as email or websites. However, the 501(h) election is not advantageous for very large non-profits whose lobbying expenditures exceed the $1,000,000 total cap or the $250,000 grassroots lobbying cap. These organizations may still be able to justify the expenditures as insubstantial if their operating budget is much larger, although it does entail increased risk.\n\nMultiple commentators have called non-profit lobbying beneficial because it balances lobbying by for-profit corporations. Tufts University political science professor Jeffrey Berry wrote in \"The Washington Post\" that, given that many non-profits are health care or social service providers, \"they are the foot soldiers in a largely private system that delivers critical services to the disadvantaged. They are often closer to the problems—and the solutions—than the policymakers in city halls, state capitals and Washington.\" In initially enacting the provision, Congress intended to increase the flow of information from non-profits to the legislative process. Senator Edmund Muskie said of an early version of a lobbying reform bill in 1971 that \"it is fundamental to our constitutional system that [tax-exempt organizations] should have equal access along with business groups and others in presenting views to Congress.\"\n\nNevertheless, as of 2009, only 1.3 percent of eligible 501(c)(3) organizations had taken the 501(h) election according to one count. A 2003 survey of non-profits found a widespread but erroneous belief that non-profit organizations were banned from political advocacy of any sort, with little awareness of the 501(h) election. This was attributed to the long gap between the provision's enactment by Congress in 1976 and the publications of final rules by the IRS in 1990 and the complexity of the 501(h) provisions, as well as the IRS's lack of interest in publicizing the provision.\n\nA 2013 survey of executive directors of non-profit organizations in Boston found that the organizations were 6.3 times more likely to engage in policy advocacy if they had taken a 501(h) election than those who did not.\n\nLobbying restrictions on non-profits date to Department of the Treasury regulations in 1919. These regulations denied tax-exempt status to organizations that engaged in \"dissemination of controversial propaganda,\" which included political advocacy. In the influential 1930 case \"Slee v. Commissioner\", the American Birth Control League's tax-exempt status was revoked due to its publication of a magazine supporting the repeal of birth control laws, despite its other charitable activities.\n\nThe substantial part test was enacted as part of the Revenue Act of 1934. One justification given for this limitation was that donating money to influence legislation was \"selfish\" and not charitable if it enhanced the donors' personal interests, although the lack of a total ban on lobbying implied that non-selfish lobbying could be permitted. Subsequent cases important to political advocacy by non-profits include \"Seasongood v. Commissioner\", \"Speiser v. Randall\", and \"Cammarano v. United States\". In 1966, the Sierra Club's tax-exempt status was revoked in a high-profile case due to its publications of advertisements in \"The New York Times\" and \"The Washington Post\" opposing the construction of dams in the Grand Canyon.\n\nThe 501(h) election was enacted in the Tax Reform Act of 1976 which was introduced by Representative Barber Conable, after several attempts to introduce various similar provisions beginning in 1969. There were several justifications given for the mechanics of the new option: correcting the vagueness of the substantial part test; ensuring that small organizations were not more restricted than large ones; providing a tax penalty for initial infractions rather than immediate loss of tax-exempt status; and increasing the lobbying influence of non-profit organizations relative to for-profit ones, the later of which were at the time able to deduct their lobbying expenses.\n\nIRS regulations implementing the specifics of the 501(h) election were not finalized until 1990. An initial 1987 proposal of regulations was criticized for being overly broad in what constituted grassroots lobbying, such as including mention of legislation in a fundraising letter, or allowing audience members at public forums to publicly express opinions about legislation, which would cause the entire cost of these activities to be applied as lobbying expenses. The public reaction to the proposed regulations lead to a congressional hearing in the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight in March 1987, followed by the establishment of an advisory board within the IRS to revise the proposed regulations. The final 1990 regulations were less stringent, excluding fundraising communications from lobbying activities and establishing the four-year window for violations before tax-exempt status would be revoked.\n"}
{"id": "12454158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12454158", "title": "Alienated land", "text": "Alienated land\n\nAlienated land is that which has been acquired from customary landowners by Government, either for its own use or private development requiring a mortgage or other forms of guarantees. The term refers historically to the appropriation of customary land by European colonial powers. Land was alienated in all colonies. \n\n"}
{"id": "28340474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28340474", "title": "Anglo-Thai Non-Aggression Pact", "text": "Anglo-Thai Non-Aggression Pact\n\nThe Anglo-Thai Non-Aggression Pact was concluded in Bangkok on 12 June 1940 between the governments of the United Kingdom and the Kingdom of Thailand. It was concluded as part of the British policy at that time of refraining from resisting by force the actions of the Japanese Empire in East Asia, as Thailand was about to become Japan's ally.\n\nRatifications were exchanged in Bangkok on 31 August 1940 and the pact became effective on the same day. It was designated to remain in force for five years, unless extended. The pact was registered in \"League of Nations Treaty Series\" on 6 June 1941.\n\nFollowing the Japanese invasion of China in 1937, British policy in East Asia was in a state of confusion. The British government opposed Japanese expansionist policies, but at this point was not in a position to take up arms against the Japanese actions, especially following the Tientsin Incident. As a result, it developed a policy of not recognizing legally the changes made by Japanese actions, but at the same time refraining from antagonizing the Japanese government by actual resistance. This policy became evident in the so-called Craigie-Arita formula of July 1939, by which the British government refrained from open opposition to Japanese military actions in China.\n\nThis situation continued following the outbreak of the Second World War in Europe in September 1939. On 18 July 1940 the British government accepted the Japanese demands for closing the Burma Road for three months to prevent war supplies to China. In addition, the government of Thailand was now becoming aligned with the Japanese Empire. During the battle of France (May–June 1940), the British government became extremely cautious in this policy, and concluded that pact with Bangkok so as not to antagonize Tokyo.\n\nArticle 1 stipulated the British and Thai governments would not resort to war against each other.\n\nArticle 2 provided for the termination of the pact if the British or the Thai governments committed an act of aggression against a third party.\n\nArticle 3 annulled any previous obligation by the British or the Thai governments to assist a third party in a war against another.\n\nArticle 4 stipulated that nothing in the pact annulled legal obligations that arose from the Covenant of the League of Nations.\n\nArticle 5 had the two governments undertake not to disrupt each other's control over its territories.\n\nArticle 6 provided for the ratification of the pact.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1697489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1697489", "title": "Assumption of risk", "text": "Assumption of risk\n\nAssumption of risk is a defense in the law of torts, which bars or reduces a plaintiff's right to recovery against a negligent tortfeasor if the defendant can demonstrate that the plaintiff voluntarily and knowingly assumed the risks at issue inherent to the dangerous activity in which he was participating at the time of his or her injury.\n\nWhat is usually meant by assumption of risk is more precisely termed \"primary\" or \"express\" assumption of risk. It occurs when the plaintiff has either expressly or implicitly relieved the defendant of the duty to mitigate or relieve the risk causing the injury from which the cause of action arises. It operates as a complete bar to liability on the theory that upon assumption of the risk, there is no longer a duty of care running from the defendant to the plaintiff; without a duty owed by the defendant, there can be no negligence on his part. However, primary assumption of risk is not a blanket exemption from liability for the operators of a dangerous activity. The \"specific\" risk causing the injury must have been known to, and appreciated by, the plaintiff in order for primary assumption of risk to apply. Also, assumption of risk does not absolve a defendant of liability for reckless conduct. \n\nThis defense is commonly asserted in cases of injuries occurring during risky recreational activities, such as skiing, paragliding, and scuba diving, but actually extends to all dangerous activities. Thus, for example, it was held that a visitor to the Burning Man festival assumed the risk of getting burned.\n\n\"Secondary\" assumption of risk is a rather different doctrine akin in some respects to comparative negligence. The difference was explained by the Supreme Court of California as follows: \n\n"}
{"id": "54769047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54769047", "title": "Autonomous Communities Administration", "text": "Autonomous Communities Administration\n\nThe Administration of the Autonomous Communities, also known as Autonomous Administration, is a Public Administration of Spain. It belongs to the second level of the Public Administrations, because it exerts its powers within the limits of each Autonomous Community.\n\nIt is integrated by:\n\n\nThe Autonomic Administration has a very broad level of competence, based on the decentralization of the State or through the State of Autonomies. As for the level of competences, they are not always the same, and are regulated in each Statute of Autonomy for each Autonomous Community, making in some cases the level of competences is higher than those of a Federal state.\n\nIt should also be taken into account that the Autonomous Community has its own legislative body, and that the autonomous administration must behave before it like any other executive power, respecting the rules issued by its autonomous parliament.\n\nIn the Spanish Constitution of 1978 it is regulated in Chapter Three, entitled \"of the Autonomous Communities\". This Chapter regulates the form of creation and authorization of the Autonomous Communities, the elaboration of its Statutes, the powers transferred to the Autonomous Communities, the powers of the State, its resources and its financing.\n\nLike the General State Administration, the Autonomous Administration is regulated by Law 40/2015 and the structure is practically the same. However, it can vary from one Autonomous Community to another depending on the provisions in the Statute of Autonomy. Here the common organs are exposed:\n\nThe Autonomous Government is the executive power of the Autonomous Community. As in the Central Government it responds before its parliament (autonomic parliament). The Government directs the Autonomous Administration within its competences. \n\nContrary to what happens with the Central Government, the decisions taken by the Executive are not sanctioned by the King, and it is the President of the Autonomous Community who signs the laws and decisions on his behalf.\n\nThe President of the Autonomous Community is the head of the executive power as well as the highest authority of the Autonomous Community. He directs the Autonomous Government, elects its Vice President and Councilors and decides the policies that the government carries out.\n\nAs at the State level, the President may elect more than one Vice President and may freely separate his Vice-Presidents and Councilors. If the President is ceased, they cease with him.\n\nThe Councilors of the Autonomous Community are like the Ministers of the Central Government. They lead a \"Consejería\" (government department as a Ministry). Councilor work in their governamental area and appoint the members of their department like Vice Councilors, General Directors...etc\n\nThe figure of the Vice Councilor or Deputy Councilor is not always present, because it is the decision of the Councilor to exist or not this position and, in Autonomous Communities of small size where the work is not much, often these positions do not exist.\n\nThe General Directorates are management departmental bodies and steering bodies, hierarchically inferior to the Councilors or Vice Councirlos (if they exist). The holder must have a degree of competence and professional experience, and will be selected from career officials of the State, Autonomous Communities or Local entities, also demanding the title of Doctor, Licensee, Engineer, Architect or equivalent. It should be noted that the Royal Decree on the structure of the Department may omit the first requirement because it is a General Directorate whose exceptional characteristics require that the holder does not have the status of official of the State.\n\nThey are consultation bodies generally composed of a technical secretary and several technicians who support the President, Vicepresident, Councilors, ect. in their relations with institutions, in making decisions and performing special advisory tasks in a particular branch of knowledge.\n\nThe Territorial Delegations of the Autonomous Communities carry out the same activity as the Delegations of the Central Government. They are administrative bodies whose head is a high position appointed in the discretion of the Autonomous Government. He is in charge of the management of the Autonomous Administration in some of the territorial divisions of the Autonomous Communities, such as the Province.\n\nThe Sectoral Delegations of the Consejerías are organs that represent the different Departments of an autonomous government. The holder must have a degree of competence and professional experience, and will be selected from career officials of the State, Autonomous Communities or Local entities, also demanding the title of Doctor, Licensee, Engineer, Architect or equivalent\n\n"}
{"id": "45328425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45328425", "title": "Bad Laws", "text": "Bad Laws\n\nBad Laws: An Explosive Analysis of Britain's Petty Rules, Health and Safety Lunacies, and Madcap Laws is a book written by Philip Johnston and published by Constable in 2010. Foster thought it expert and merciless. Appleton called it \"thorough and persuasive\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1216128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216128", "title": "Bancroft Treaties", "text": "Bancroft Treaties\n\nThe Bancroft treaties, also called the Bancroft conventions, were a series of agreements made in the late 19th and early 20th centuries between the United States and other countries. They recognized the right of each party's nationals to become naturalized citizens of the other; and defined circumstances in which naturalized persons were legally presumed to have abandoned their new citizenship and resumed their old one.\n\nNamed for historian and diplomat George Bancroft (1800–1891), who negotiated the first of these agreements with Prussia, the Bancroft treaties were mainly intended to prevent individuals from using naturalization as a way to avoid military service and other legal obligations in their native countries.\n\nFrom 1868 to 1937, the United States entered into 25 Bancroft treaties covering 34 foreign countries. A typical Bancroft treaty had three major provisions. The first specified the terms under which each party would recognize the naturalization of its citizens by the other. (Five years' uninterrupted residence in the adopted country was the usual requirement.) The second provided that naturalized citizens who returned to their native country could be prosecuted for crimes that they allegedly committed before they emigrated. The third and most important provided that naturalized citizens who returned to their country of origin and stayed there for two continuous years would be presumed to have resumed their former nationality. That would require them to meet any unfulfilled military service obligation in their native country and deny them the diplomatic protection of their adopted one. Article III of the 1908 treaty with Portugal was typical:\n\nConceived in an era when the right of individuals to change their citizenship was not universally recognized, the Bancroft treaties represented an important step forward in securing recognition by foreign governments of the right of their nationals to become American citizens. But American constitutional law eventually made the treaties obsolete.\n\nIn \"Schneider v. Rusk\", 377 U.S. 163 (1964), the Supreme Court invalidated a section of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (the McCarran-Walter Act) that would strip naturalized Americans of their citizenship after \"three\" years' continuous residence in their country of origin; and in \"Afroyim v. Rusk\", 387 U.S. 253 (1967), the Supreme Court, reviewing part of the Nationality Act of 1940, held that Congress has no power to strip anyone of their citizenship, whether it is acquired by birth or by naturalization. These decisions strongly suggested that any future case of involuntary loss of citizenship under one of the Bancroft treaties probably would not survive a Supreme Court challenge.\n\nConcluding that the Bancroft treaties were unenforceable, the administration of President Jimmy Carter, acting in consultation with the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, gave notice in 1980 terminating the treaties with 18 of the 21 countries with which they were still in force. The exceptions were the treaties with Albania, Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia. The treaty with Albania was terminated in 1991 when Albania and the United States re-established diplomatic relations at the end of the Cold War. The treaty with the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic as successor states to the former Czechoslovakia was terminated by the United States in 1997. In the last years of Barack Obama's Presidency the treaty with Bulgaria was terminated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48548339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48548339", "title": "Black Silent Majority", "text": "Black Silent Majority\n\nBlack Silent Majority: The Rockefeller Drug Laws and the Politics of Punishment is a non-fiction book written by Michael Javen Fortner.\n\nA look into the role of how America's drug policies impact African Americans and crime in their own neighborhoods.\n\n\"The New York Times\" said in a review of the book, \"The history of black people’s ability to express and to act on their punitiveness — to be tough on crime — is at the heart of a fascinating though severely flawed new book by Michael Javen Fortner.\"\n"}
{"id": "5949300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5949300", "title": "Brand licensing", "text": "Brand licensing\n\nLicensing means renting or leasing of an intangible asset. It is a process of creating and managing contracts between the owner of a brand and a company or individual who wants to use the brand in association with a product, for an agreed period of time, within an agreed territory. Licensing is used by brand owners to extend a trademark or character onto products of a completely different nature.\n\nExamples of intangible assets include a song (\"Somewhere Over The Rainbow\"), a character (Donald Duck), a name (Michael Jordan), or a brand (The Ritz-Carlton). An arrangement to license a brand requires a licensing agreement. A licensing agreement authorizes a company which markets a product or service (a licensee) to lease or rent a brand from a brand owner who operates a licensing program (a licensor).\n\nBrand licensing is a well-established business, both in the area of patents and trademarks. Trademark licensing has a rich history in American business, largely beginning with the rise of mass entertainment such as the movies, comics and later television. Mickey Mouse's popularity in the 1930s and 1940s resulted in an explosion of toys, books, and consumer products with the lovable rodent's likeness on them, none of which were manufactured by the Walt Disney Company.\n\nThis process accelerated as movies and later television became a staple of American business. The rise of brand licensing did not begin until much later, when corporations found that consumers would actually pay money for products with the logos of their favorite brands on them. McDonald's play food, Burger King T-shirts and even ghastly Good Humor Halloween costumes became commonplace. Brand extensions later made the brand licensing marketplace much more lucrative, as companies realized they could make real dollars renting out their equity to manufacturers. Instead of spending untold millions to create a new brand, companies were willing to pay a royalty on net sales of their products to \"rent\" the product of an established brand name. Armor All auto vacuums, Breyers yogurt, TGI Friday's frozen appetizers, and Lucite nail polish are only a handful of the products carrying well-known brand names which are made under license by companies unrelated to the companies who own the brand.\n\nA company may choose to license its brand(s) when they believe there is strong consumer acceptance for brand extensions or products. For example, when Apple launched the iPod there was an immediate need for accessories such as headphones, charging and syncing stations and carrying cases. Apple decided not to manufacture these products and instead chose to have a licensee make the products. By doing so, Apple could offer branded \"Earbud Headphones\", \"iPod docking stations\" and \"iPod socks.\" Each is made by a separate company but together offer the consumer an elegant solution. All of these accessories are sold by licensees.\n\nApart from benefits to licensors, there are benefits to licensees as well. Licensees lease the rights to a brand for incorporation into their merchandise, but do not share ownership in it. Having access to major national and global brands, and the logos and trademarks associated with those brands, gives the licensee significant benefits. The most important of these is the marketing power the brand brings to the licensee’s products. When brand managers enter or extend into new product categories via licensing they create an opportunity for a licensee to grow their company. Below is an example of the licensed product process steps:\n\n\nLicensees expect that the license will provide them with sales growth. This sales growth may be in the form of growth within existing market or the opportunity to enter a new market. To achieve this, licensees expect that the brand they are licensing has significant brand preference, that it will open doors and ultimately help them meet or exceed their business objectives. The licensing contract forces the licensee to achieve certain sales targets and royalties; therefore, the goal of the licensee is to quickly meet their business objectives, thereby achieving their contract obligations. Royalties are the monies paid to a licensor by the licensee for the right to use the licensed property. It is calculated by multiplying the Royalty Rate by the Net Sales.\n\nThe main international professional association for brand licensing is the Licensing Industry Merchandiser's Association, which sponsors the annual Licensing International Expo.\n\nThe Society of Product Licensors Committed to Excellence (SPLiCE) is a Licensors Community of Practice with the vision to continuously improve brand licensing. The mission of SPLiCE is to act as a community of licensors who share best practices for protecting, promoting and enhancing brand integrity. The SPLiCE Licensors Workshop acts as its annual board of directors and members' meeting. During SPLiCE Licensors Workshop, benchmark findings and industry trends are highlighted in feature panel presentations that are relevant to the community at large. They engage a creativity philosophy of divergence and convergence to sustain unique idea implementation on best practices. The vision for SPLiCE Licensors Workshop is to provide best in practice licensing education through sharing educational best practices through benchmarking initiatives, task force collaborations, committee reports, and guest industry speakers\n\nEach May, \"License! Global\" magazine publishes an annual list of \"The Top 150 Global Licensors\". For 2017, the leader was Disney Consumer Products with $53 billion in retail sales of licensed merchandise, followed by Meredith Corp. with $23.2 Billion and PVH with $18 Billion.\n\nAccording to the International Licensing Industry Merchandisers' Association (LIMA), global licensed merchandise sales was $272.2 billion in 2016, versus $262.2 billion in 2015. \n\nThe liberalisation of the Indian economy in 1992 brought a slew of international brands to India. Many of these brands have been licensed to Indian companies. Arvind represent Arrow, Cherokee, ELLE, Nautica, USPA, AEROPOSTALE, CHILDRENS PLACE, Ed Hardy, GAP and Kipling. The Murjani Group is the licensee for Calvin Klein Jeans, FCUK and Tommy Hilfiger. Beverly Hills Polo Club (BHPC) is licensed to Spencers Retail. \n\nCharacter Licensing is another big licensing segment of brand licensing in India. The big players in the character licensing industry in India are Disney India, Viacom 18 and Cartoon Network Enterprises. Characters licensed out by Disney India include Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck. Viacom has brought in popular characters from Nickelodeon like Dora The Explorer and SpongeBob SquarePants. Cartoon Network boasts of a portfolio including characters such as Ben 10, Powerpuff Girls, Mr. Bean, Roll no. 21, We Bare Bears.\n\nBrand Licensing in Italy started in the seventies with very few Licensing Agencies. Apart from Disney which had its own dedicated office in the market, all the other big Entertainment majors were represented by independent agencies. One of these companies named DIC 2 (Distribution International Characters), founded in 1973 by Gianfranco Mari contributed to create the licensing business in Italy and set big phenomena as He-Man and the Masters of the Universe, Marvel Comics, \"Star Wars\", Hanna & Barbera characters, Zorro, Asterix and so on. DIC 2 is still one of the biggest independent agencies in Italy, representing different cartoon characters and famous brands.\n"}
{"id": "53580604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53580604", "title": "Buffalo Law Review", "text": "Buffalo Law Review\n\nThe \"Buffalo Law Review\" is the general law review of the State University of New York University at Buffalo School of Law. The journal currently publishes 5 issues per year. As a general law review, it focuses on current developments across the legal field, publishing on a variety of topics. As of 2015, the \"Buffalo Law Review\" was ranked 51st in the nation among general law reviews.\n\nSince it was first published in 1951, the \"Buffalo Law Review\" has been a student run general law review, covering a variety of topics. Its first volume contained articles written by then Associate Judge Charles S. Desmond of the New York Court of Appeals and Associate Justice Robert H. Jackson of the United States Supreme Court. The journal publishes articles written by scholars, practicing attorneys, and judges from across the legal profession. First year students are selected according to a scoring system that factors in grades, a written casenote, and a test in which the student must correct a number of citations.\n\nEvery year, the journal awards the Justice Philip Halpern Award to one graduating member for excellence in writing and the Carlos C. Alden Award to one graduating member for making the greatest contribution to the journal.\n"}
{"id": "7216004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7216004", "title": "Celebrant (Australia)", "text": "Celebrant (Australia)\n\nIn Australia, celebrants are people who conduct formal ceremonies in the community, particularly weddings, which are the main ceremony of legal import conducted by celebrants. They may also conduct extra-legal ceremonies such as naming of babies, renewal of wedding vows and funerals. Officiating at a marriage requires that the celebrant be an authorised marriage celebrant under Australian law, but officiating at extra-legal ceremonies does not.\n\nMany Western nations permit celebrants who are not clergy to carry out basic, legal, marriage ceremonies. However Australia was the first nation whose government appointed non-clergy celebrants with the specific intention that they would create ceremonies that might be as culturally enriching and, if required, as formal as church weddings, i.e. that these ceremonies would not be inferior in status to religious weddings.\n\nAn \"authorised celebrant\" is a person who is authorised (registered) by the Australian Government to perform legal marriages according to the Marriage Act 1961. The celebrant may be a representative of a religious organisation (known as a religious marriage celebrant) or someone providing secular or non-religious weddings (known as a civil marriage celebrant). Only authorised (registered) marriage celebrants have the authority to perform marriages in Australia.\n\nIn 2017, 78 per cent of Australian marriages were performed by civil celebrants. However, the rate of civil marriages varied between states and territories, with a civil marriage rate of 86.6% in the Northern Territory, 83.6% in Tasmania, 81.7% in Western Australia, 81.2% in Queensland, 77.8% in South Australia, 77.3% in Victoria, 76.6% in the Australian Capital Territory and 75% in New South Wales.\n\nMarriage by independent civil celebrant has spread in other English-speaking countries. Its early establishment in Australia was largely due to the support of the reforming Attorney-General Lionel Murphy in the 1970s.\n\nA civil marriage celebrant is a private person authorised by the relevant government to perform legal civil marriages in a dignified and culturally acceptable manner, for those who do not choose a religious ceremony.\n\nCivil celebrants also serve people who have religious beliefs but do not wish to be married in a church, temple or mosque. In contrast to the established ceremonies of religious or registry office authorities, in celebrant ceremonies many decisions about the content are chosen by the couple. Therefore, the civil celebrant has come to be defined as a professionally trained ceremony-provider who works in accordance with the wishes of the client couple. The task may be like an architect who is charged with designing a dream home for a couple who need expert help. In this sense the celebrant is not just the one who performs the ceremony according to law, but its facilitator, the couple's adviser, the resource person, the co-creator of the ceremony, and the rehearsal-director.\n\nTherefore, the celebrant does not come from the standpoint of belief or unbelief. Trained celebrants usually operate professionally on the principle that their own beliefs and values are irrelevant.\n\nCommentators have suggested the following reasons why civil celebrancy was introduced, and why it succeeded so quickly:\n\n\nCivil celebrancy was established by the Australian Commonwealth Attorney General Lionel Murphy on 19 July 1973, when his first appointee, Mrs Lois D'Arcy, was categorised as a Civil Marriage Celebrant. Later, as civil marriage celebrants branched out into the performance of other ceremonies such as Funerals and Namings the term was shortened to Civil Celebrant.\nAccording to civil celebrant Dally Messenger III:\n\nThe civil celebrant program is almost entirely the result of one man's vision. Murphy himself told me the story of how he was opposed by his own staff, the public service, his fellow members of parliament and officials of the Labour Party. He defied all, and, on July 19, 1973, in the dead of night, typed the first appointment himself, found the envelope and stamp, walked to a post box and posted it himself.\n\nIn fact the enabling legislation, the Marriage Act, had been passed in 1961 but Murphy's personal involvement in using the Act's powers and bypassing the bureaucracy made him a hero to the first civil celebrants. Lois D’Arcy, in a 1992 address to celebrants, recollected Murphy's own account of his authorising the first appointment:\n\n(Lionel had) returned to his office one evening. There he had taken a piece of paper with his letterhead, typed my authorisation, and then placed it in an envelope, which he then posted to me. What other person in such a high position would have done such a thing. No one other than Lionel Murphy!\n\nMurphy's stance on marriage reform (and on divorce reform) was part of wider desire to free Australians from restrictive laws. High Court Justice Michael Kirby remarked in 2000:\n\nLionel Murphy was a big figure on the stage of Australian public life. He pursued with energy, imagination and determination a vision of Australian society which was not warped and gnarled and inward-looking. It was one which reached out to everyone, particularly the disadvantaged.\n\nWith regard to the marriage celebrant program – Dally Messenger III summarised Murphy’s achievement as follows:\nLionel Murphy was a real radical. I am still amazed at his vision. He shocked the system.\n\nAccording to Messenger and D'Arcy (opera.cit), the pioneer civil celebrants believed they were part of an innovative cultural challenge. They developed a deeper understanding of the purposes of ceremony, and believed celebrants should pursue excellence in every ceremony and in a variety of ceremonies.\n\nTo raise the general standard of civil ceremonies, given what they saw as the excessively legal cultural context they had inherited, they encouraged each couple to see more creative possibilities in the ceremony than the two of them might originally have envisaged. In this context the celebrant, as a resource person, needed to educate himself/herself in the artistic treasures of western culture appropriate for ceremony creation i.e. in poetry, prose, music, choreography, storytelling and symbolism i.e. the components of ceremony.\n\nSince the Federal Government introduced celebrants in 1973, the appointment has been valid at any time, in any place anywhere in Australia. Up to 2013, the Marriage Celebrant Program has enabled over a million couples to be married in civil ceremonies. Celebrants were originally appointed based on geographic location and the perceived need for a celebrant in the area, but after 2003 their appointment was dependent on being a bureaucratically approved \"fit and proper person\".\n\nThe Code of Practice, a section of the Regulations under the Marriage Act 1961, and to which celebrants are legally bound, requires that celebrants help provide a client-centred ceremony. It further recommends the following high standards of ceremonial preparation and delivery:\n\na marriage celebrant must recognise the social, cultural and legal significance of marriage and the marriage ceremony...\n\na marriage celebrant must maintain a high standard of service in his or her professional conduct and practice...\n\na marriage celebrant must respect the importance of the marriage ceremony to the parties and the other persons organising the ceremony...\n\ngive the parties information and guidance to enable them to choose or compose a marriage ceremony that will meet their needs and expectations...\n\nIf requested by the parties conduct a marriage ceremony rehearsal...\n\nEnsure that his or her personal presentation is of an appropriate standard for the marriage ceremony, and respect the expectations of the parties in relation to the ceremony...\n\nmake efforts to ensure that the marriage ceremony is audible to all those present (using audio equipment, if required)...\n\narrive at the venue for the marriage ceremony no later than the time agreed with the parties...\n\nensure that the parties to each marriage receive a level of service that meets their separate and special requirements...\n\naccept evaluative comment from the parties, and use any comments to improve performance...\n\nThis distinguishes the Australian Civil Marriage Celebrant and the countries which follow the Australian model, from previous experiences of civil marriage, or from pre-conceived notions, often held especially in the UK and the USA that a civil marriage must be short, dry legal and soul-less.\n\nAs is clear from the Australian Code of Practice quoted above, a couple can, and often do, require that their marriage ceremony have all the traditional structure, content, dress, choreography and flow of a formal church ceremony. And originally, civil celebrants were instructed that the readings, ideals, values, vows, music (lyrics) which are expressed, must be secular and non-religious. In April 1976 the Attorney's General's Department instructed civil celebrants as follows:-\nAll celebrants are urged to ensure that the ceremony they use is appropriate for a civil marriage. They are reminded that the service they provide is a secular alternative to religious services which are reserved for church marriages. It would be therefore be out of character for any religious significance to be given to the ceremony. For the same reasons, the conduct of a civil marriage in a church is not encouraged and, understandably, could be the subject of criticism by church authorities and the public generally.\nThis admonition was repeated over ten years later (September 1986) in virtually the same words.\nDally Messenger III also claims that as the ceremony is either chosen or created by the couple, it can be affirmed as honest and authentic.\nOr to give an American perspective on marriage which illustrates a reformed view of civil marriage we need only quote the New Jersey civil marriage celebrant Gerald Fierst:\nA wedding ceremony is a crossroad where two life stories intersect.\n\nA wedding ceremony takes the two lives that the individuals have travelled and transforms them into a single path upon which each life embarks, starting over.\n\nA wedding ceremony acknowledges the turning point, the choice to go on.\n\nIt's the setting off on life's journey together, with the experiences of the past as a guide into the future.\n\nA wedding ceremony is a story which tells the past, proclaims the present, and blesses the future.\nOr in the words of Author and Celebrant Wendy Haynes:\nWhen it comes down to it, the jewel in the crown is the wedding ceremony... The purpose of the book is to inspire you, to give you ideas so you can shape the ceremony to fit your life and your commitment to each other.\n\nLionel Murphy himself founded the first celebrant organisation on 3 May 1974. He called all the celebrants he had appointed to that date to his office in Sydney. He explained to the celebrants who were present that the Labor Party was sure to lose the coming election. Celebrants would need an organisation so that they could speak with one voice, especially if their very existence was threatened by a Conservative (Liberal) Government. He appointed a well-known model Jill-Ellen Fuller as the inaugural President of the Australian Civil Marriage Celebrants Association (ACMCA). He placed his own personal secretary Maureen Barron as temporary secretary but soon officially appointed Dally Messenger III.\n\nApart from survival, the main activities of the ACMCA became to deal with the media, and to distribute and share (by mail) resources among the celebrants i.e. poems and quotations, for use in ceremonies.\n\nMurphy exempted every civil celebrant from Section 45 of the Australian federal Marriage Act 1961. This is a legal \"warning\" or \"monitum\" to the couple. Murphy believed the words to be sexist and inauthentic – i.e. wrong for not admitting the high rate of divorce.\n\nAfter several years the ACMCA broke up into state organisations. Other organisations such as the Australian Federation of Civil Celebrants formed (28 January 1994) which admitted marriage, funeral and naming celebrants.\n\nDespite a number of difficulties and problems, the civil celebrant program turned out to be hugely popular with the general public.\nFrom 1973 to 1995, civil marriages by independent celebrants went from 2.92% of total marriages to 38.5% in 1996.(If one includes Total Civil Marriages i.e. includes civil marriages performed by government \"Registry Office\" officials, total civil marriages went from 17.92% in 1974 to 46.7% in 1996\nThe main problem was the fixed fee which, strictly interpreted by Attorney-General’s Department ultimately led to a serious decline in standards from which the program has never fully recovered. Once the pioneer celebrants became diluted with new appointments idealism was only sustained by the minority. Attitudes developed with many celebrants which turned out to be very destructive. Realising they received the same remuneration if they spent time and care in the preparation of a marriage, or if they did not, many provided the absolute minimum for the marrying couple. To make matters worse, the fixed fee, in a period of high inflation, declined in value, which further exacerbated the problem.\n\nMany good celebrants were forced out of the field due to the low remuneration. In the context of the fixed fee, those who stayed practising marriage celebrants did far too many marriages to earn enough remuneration for their personal needs.\nDespite Lionel Murphy’s clear declarations to the contrary, some powerful public servants began to classify the office of marriage celebrant as a \"community service\" which led to a further deterioration of professional standards.\n\nSays Messenger: \"… the public service and the government had all but destroyed the Civil Marriage Celebrant Program by freezing the fee, forcing down standards and frustrating the good celebrants out of the business.\"\n\nDespite these debilitating policy initiatives, a minority core of celebrants sustained high standards. The program continued to progress and, at the end of 1995, was very close to becoming the mainstream procedure of contracting marriage.\n\nAccording to Messenger the period from 1995 to 2003 is recorded as being the most happily productive of the Civil Celebrant Movement in Australia.\n\nFuneral and Naming ceremonies, originally opposed by the majority of celebrants and the Attorney-General's Department, had gradually and imperceptibly become accepted. A group of celebrants under the leadership of Rick Barclay, a successful Funeral and Marriage Celebrant, had morphed the original Funeral Celebrants Association of Australia into an organisation which accepted all ceremonies and celebrants into an inclusive association titled The Institute of Australian Celebrants.\n\nKathleen Hurley, an active member of the Institute, persuaded Dally Messenger III to become more deeply involved. Other activists at this time included Ken Woodburn, Lyn Knorr, Beverley Silvius, Gavan Grosser, Cavell Ferrier and Brian and Tina McInerney. As a group, they decided to escalate the profile of the Institute and take a lead in bringing all celebrants together. They also devised a plan for regular meetings and conferences to encourage co-operation, professional development, and to focus on a deeper understanding of the role of the celebrant in society.\n\nTheir most important decision was to mount a political and media campaign to abolish the fixed fee, perceived as the cause of the lowest standards since the program was established. With these ends, on 28 January. 1994, the institute became a national organisation, the Australian Federation of Civil Celebrants Inc.\n\nBefore challenging government, they campaigned for more members and organised a series meetings and seminars. Shortly after, on 28 March 1994 Dally Messenger, the president of the Australian Federation of Civil Celebrants joined with Robert Ross, secretary of the Association of Civil Marriage Celebrants of Victoria in a meeting with the Honorable Peter Duncan, the assistant minister in charge of celebrants, and asked him for the deregulation of the fee for marriages, and a number of other reforms.\n\nDuncan, after several months of correspondence, responded negatively by appointing 1000 extra celebrants. This provocative action galvanised all eleven celebrant organisations to challenge the government via the media.\nWith the assistance of leading constitutional lawyer, Professor Michael Pryles, and the abovementioned media publicity, the government responded.\nThe fixed fee was de-regulated on 1 July 1995. On 29 & 30 August 1995 the federal government invited representatives of all eleven celebrant organisations to a meeting in Canberra — the National Council of Celebrants. More importantly, a search conference, initiated by public servant, Helen Eastburn, was set up to establish Competency Standards under Jan Wallbridge and Jennifer Rivers of the Canberra Institute of Technology. This occurred on 29 and 30 August 1995 and was followed through and refined in intense correspondence and phone calls to everyone concerned in the weeks following.\n\nA watershed of development and possibly symbolically expressing the most profound maturing within the celebrant movement were the series of conferences held at Pallotti College, Millgrove, northeast of Melbourne from 1994 to 1999. The committee of the Australian Federation of Civil Celebrants decided that the Conferences should explore the nature of celebrancy itself and focus primarily on ceremony and ritual in society.\n\nThirty years later, following an extensive review and the introduction of reforms by the federal Attorney-General Daryl Williams, the marriage celebrant system changed. \nWilliams promised a new structure and summarised his intentions as follows:\n\n\nSince September 2003, prospective marriage celebrants have had to undergo Government-approved, accredited training in marriage celebrancy, and meet specific criteria set by the Attorney-General's Department to be declared a \"fit and proper person\" to hold the office of \"marriage celebrant\".\n\nIn this same month a series of legal and administrative changes to the civil celebrant program were put into effect by the Australian Government. Attorney-General Daryl Williams, who left the Australian Parliament in mid-term had, just before he resigned, approved a number of radical changes to the Marriage Act and the Regulations under the Act (Section 39 as it was, and after 2003). The most important of these was the legal transfer of powers over the program from the Attorney-General to an appointed public servant titled \"The Registrar\".).\n\nThe program, from its beginnings in 1973 had always been referred to as the \"Civil Celebrant Program\". Under the 2003 changes, all civil celebrant appointments were cancelled, and all civil celebrants to this point were re-appointed by the Registrar, in the same category as clergy of small churches, as \"Commonwealth Authorised Celebrants\".\n\nNew appointments were usually authorised by the Registrar after passing one Unit of Competency, of a since substantially discredited educational system of Nationally Authorised Training.\n\nWith a pass in this Unit certified by any Registered Training Organisation, on application to the Registrar, providing the applicant paid attention to the details of the written application, appointment as a Commonwealth Authorised Celebrant was more or less automatic, with the occasional exception.\n\nThis system led to a proliferation of celebrants and excessive competition. It also led to a lowering of standards. In 2010, Melbourne journalist Mark Russell noted:\n\nmany have inadequate training... The number of nuptial nightmares is soaring ... horror stories abound ... inexperienced celebrants have been accused of ruining wedding days because they don't know what they are doing.\n\nThe article goes on to list the disastrous experience of many wedding days, the inadequacy of celebrant training, unpredictable cancellations by celebrants, the lowering of planning and rehearsing standards, the indignity of some celebrant advertising material and the \"savage\" over-competition.\n\nOn 15 January 2012, in an open letter to Attorney-General Nicola Roxon, nine senior celebrants protested their grievances at the deterioration of the program in which they had formerly felt pride and achievement. They listed:-\n\nThey recommended a policy based on the following principles.\n\nUntil 2004 the Commonwealth Statistician (ABS-ref) customarily gave statistics for the\nAfter 2004 many of these statistics were discontinued. Statistics for the total number and proportion of religious and civil marriages are still published each year, but they do not distinguish between marriages conducted by registry office officials and those conducted by independent marriage celebrants. Similarly, statistics of religious marriages only give separate figures for the two largest denominations, Roman Catholics and Anglicans.\n\nUntil 1994, Celebrant Training was mainly achieved by informal but effective mentoring of new celebrants by the more experienced. This was augmented by seminars and conferences organised by the main celebrant organisations. Significant progress in understanding of the celebrant role was achieved at the annual \"Pallotti\" live-in conferences which took place at Warburton in Victoria from 1994 to 1999. International lecturers included Mary Hancock from New Zealand and David Oldfield from Washington DC in the US.\nAfter the changes of 2003, the Australian Government encouraged Registered Training Organisations to teach celebrancy, a system which was open to exploitation by unethical operators and which for civil celebrants, and for many other vocational training courses, proved disastrous.\n\nRegistration provides the legal authority to practice as a marriage celebrant and a four-digit or five-digit alpha-numeric registration number. Once registered (or authorised as it is also known), the marriage celebrant can marry couples in virtually any location (e.g. reception centre \"chapels\", other de-consecrated chapels and churches, historic buildings, galleries, private homes, parks and gardens, beaches, headlands, boats etc.) and at any time of the day or night. The celebrant is responsible for processing and lodging all legal paperwork to register the marriage in accordance with defined procedures. This gives the Australian Civil Marriage Celebrant more status than they enjoy in other western countries, but also additional legal responsibility.\n\nFrom 1975 a defined group of marriage and non-marriage celebrants declared themselves as Funeral Celebrants. Many celebrants who are currently awaiting appointment as marriage celebrants and who cannot yet perform marriage ceremonies are practising as general celebrants in the community. Authorised marriage celebrants also frequently offer general celebrant services; but since these services are extra-legal, they may also be conducted on an ad hoc basis by untrained people.\n\nGeneral celebrants perform a range of different extra-legal ceremonies including naming (namegiving) ceremonies; funerals; renewal of wedding vows; anniversaries; significant birthday celebrations; commitment ceremonies for same-sex couples who are currently forbidden to marry under Australian law, or for heterosexual couples who cannot marry for personal, financial, religious or legal reasons; memorials and or scattering of ashes ceremonies; boat-naming ceremonies; dedication of new home or office ceremonies; graduation ceremonies; naturalisation (citizenship) ceremonies; becoming a teenager (coming of age) and other ceremonies.\n\n"}
{"id": "53104969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53104969", "title": "Code of Personal Status (Kuwait)", "text": "Code of Personal Status (Kuwait)\n\nThe Code of Personal Status is a Kuwait legal code promulgated in 1984. It is similar to the Code of Personal Status in Tunisia.\n"}
{"id": "22038093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22038093", "title": "Controversial Ohio database searches of Joe Wurzelbacher", "text": "Controversial Ohio database searches of Joe Wurzelbacher\n\nControversial Ohio database searches of Joe Wurzelbacher occurred during the last few weeks of the 2008 US Presidential election campaign, when Ohio Department of Job and Family Services (ODJFS) employees, and Ohio officials, became embroiled in a controversy over searches of Joe Wurzelbacher's government records after he came to national attention as \"Joe the Plumber.\" The matter led to substantial news media attention during the presidential campaign, a new law being signed in Ohio, and a federal civil rights lawsuit which was dismissed on August 4, 2010, on grounds that the privacy violation did not amount to a constitutional violation of the right to privacy.\nOn October 14, 2009, the Columbus Dispatch reported that, \"A former contractor for the Ohio Association of Chiefs of Police has been charged with rummaging through state computers to retrieve information about 'Joe the Plumber.'\" The State Highway Patrol has stated that, \"this individual has also used a law-enforcement computer network on Oct. 16, 2008 to access personal information about Samuel Joseph Wurzelbacher.\"\n\nSince \"The Columbus Dispatch\" reported on October 25, 2008, that \"information on Wurzelbacher's driver's license or his sports utility vehicle was pulled [accessed] from the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles database three times,\" multiple state databases have been used to get information on Wurzelbacher.\n\nIn Ohio, state and local officials are investigating whether the accessing was illegal. Wurzelbacher responded on Fox News saying that, \"It upsets me greatly, to be honest with you.\" John McCain responded later that day calling the actions, \"remarkable.\" The Obama campaign responded that the access had nothing to do with the Obama campaign and that it should be fully investigated.\n\nDuring the last few weeks of the 2008 US Presidential election campaign, ODJFS employees became embroiled in a controversy over searches of Joe Wurzelbacher's government records. State and local officials conducted an investigation into whether ODJFS Director Helen Jones-Kelley's order to access Ohio government databases concerning Wurzelbacher was illegal; they concluded on November 20, 2008, that the searches breached protocol but found there was no evidence to prove they were part of a political agenda or linked with a political group or campaign. The Attorney General's office of Ohio conducted the investigation.\n\nAt the start of the investigation, Ohio State Rep. William Batchelder, R-Medina, called for Jones-Kelley to explain her agency's actions in reviewing individuals who have been the subject of news stories. In a written response to a letter from Ohio Senate President Bill Harris, Jones-Kelly defended her decision to approve of the search on Wurzelbacher after the third presidential debate:\n\nGiven our understanding that Mr. Wurzelbacher had publicly indicated that he had the means to purchase a substantial business enterprise, ODJFS, consistent with past departmental practice, checked confidential databases to make sure that if Mr. Wurzelbacher did owe child support, or unemployment compensation taxes, or was receiving public assistance, appropriate action was being taken. The result of those checks have never been publicly shared.\n\nThe \"Columbus Dispatch\" reported on November 14, 2008, that \"In response to a public-records request, the state agency said yesterday that it had no records involving previous checks of the type that Director Helen Jones-Kelley authorized on 'Joe the Plumber.'\" Tom Hayes and Barbara Riley, both previous directors of ODJFS, have responded to Jones-Kelley's searches and stated that they did not conduct searches due to an individual's status being raised to \"celebrity.\"\n\nOn November 20, 2008, Inspector General Charles reported that the reasons that Helen Jones-Kelley provided for the checks on Wurzelbacher \"were not credible and they included contradictions, ambiguity, and inconsistencies.\" Charles found that Jones-Kelley \"improperly authorized searches of state databases for information on Samuel Joseph — 'Joe the Plumber' — Wurzelbacher.\" Charles has provided the report to the prosecutor's office of Franklin County, Ohio for their review and consideration. After reviewing the report, Strickland suspended Jones-Kelley for a month without pay, but rejected requests for her to be terminated. On December 17, 2008, Jones-Kelley resigned from her position as director of ODJFS. Along with her resignation, Jones-Kelley issued a statement. \"This decision comes after a time of pause, in which I realize that I continue to be used as a political postscript, providing a distraction from urgent state priorities.\" Fred Williams and Doug Thompson, members of Jones-Kelley's staff, who had both been suspended after being implicated in the ODJFS computer records search, left their positions due to resignation and removal. Governor Ted Strickland's spokesperson stated that the governor \"values Helen Jones-Kelley's years of public service as a dedicated advocate for the most vulnerable among us.\" Upon Jones-Kelley's resignation, Douglas E. Lumpkin was chosen by Governor Strickland to replace her as director of ODJFS.\n\nIn response to the improper records search, Republican Ohio state representative Shannon Jones sponsored House Bill 648 that mandates \"the firing of any unclassified state employee who improperly accesses confidential personal information\". On December 10, 2008, the bill passed the Ohio House of Representatives by a vote of 69 to 26. On December 17, 2008, the bill passed the Ohio Senate by a vote of 30 to 2. On January 6, 2009, Governor Ted Strickland signed House Bill 648, creating civil and criminal penalties for violations of rules concerning access to personal information on state databases.\n\nOn March 5, 2009, in a U.S. District Court in Columbus, Judicial Watch filed a lawsuit charging that Jones-Kelley (along with employees Fred Williams and Doug Thompson) improperly searched \"confidential state databases\" in an attempt to retaliate against Joe Wurzelbacher's criticism of then-presidential candidate Barack Obama. The lawsuit states that the actions of these individuals \"are sufficient to chill or silence a person of ordinary firmness from future First Amendment activities.\" Judicial Watch filed the federal civil rights lawsuit on behalf of Wurzelbacher, alleging that \"officials of the State of Ohio violated Mr. Wurzelbacher's constitutional rights by illegally accessing confidential information from its official databases.\" The Associated Press reports that Jones-Kelley must respond to the lawsuit within 20 days. Jones-Kelley's attorney, H. Ritchey Hollenbaugh, has declined to comment on the lawsuit and has stated that he is \"studying it.\" On May 7, 2009, the Associated Press reported that Jones-Kelly, \"denies that she authorized state searches about the man known as \"Joe the Plumber\" after he questioned Barack Obama on the 2008 campaign trail.\" In addition, she \"acknowledged donating $2,500 to the Obama campaign but denied providing additional help.\"\n\nOn November 15, 2009, the Associated Press reported that \"Ohio taxpayers are paying the bill for the legal defense of three former state employees sued by \"Joe the Plumber,\" who claims they illegally accessed his personal information leading up to last fall's presidential election.\"\n\nOn August 4, 2010, the U.S District Court in Columbus dismissed the lawsuit on the grounds that the privacy violation didn't amount to a constitutional violation to the right to privacy.\n"}
{"id": "37186318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37186318", "title": "Copyright law of South Korea", "text": "Copyright law of South Korea\n\nCopyright law of South Korea is regulated by the Copyright Act of 1957. It has been amended several times, with a recent 2009 revision introducing a three strikes policy for online copyright infringement.\n\nThe concept of copyright first appeared in Korean writings in 1884. The history of the Korean copyright law dates to 1908, when during the occupation of Korea, the Japanese copyright law was extended to cover the Korean territories in the form of the international treaty between the United States and Japan on the Protection of Industrial Property in Korea. The Japanese law on copyright was used in Korea until 1957. The major Korean copyright legislation up to date, the Copyright Act of 1957, was enacted on January 28 of that year. This act protected the works for 30 years after the death of the author, and included fair use provisions. Later revisions also addressed issues such as moral rights.\n\nThe Act has had 14 amendments, including two consolidations (in 1986 and 2006). The 1986 law extended the length of copyright to 50 years after the author's death, and introduced other modifications, bringing Korean copyright law in line with the Universal Copyright Convention. However, the transitional provisions laid out in the addendum of the 1986 law noted that the new law (and thus its longer term) did not apply to works whose copyright term under the earlier law had already expired. As of 1999, acts of criminal copyright infringement were punishable with a prison term of up to three years and a fine of up to three million won. As of September 2012, the 2006 consolidated version was last amended by Law No. 9625 on April 22, 2009.\n\nThe 2009 revision gives the government (represented by the Korean Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Korean Copyright Commission) the power to delete illegal reproductions, notify the copyright infringers, and suspend their online access, and is an implementation of the three strikes policy. Article 133bis of the Korean Copyright Act allows the Korean Copyright Commission to request that the ISPs suspend the accounts of repeat file-sharing offenders, as determined by the Commission, for six months, and to upgrade this request to a demand if the Ministry becomes involved; the ISP has to follow the Ministry-backed demand or face a fine. However, user email accounts are not to be suspended.\n\nIn general, copyright legislation in Korea has grown increasingly restrictive. In the 1950s, the public opinion in Korea did not consider acts such as copying a book to be equivalent to stealing. The 1957 act was very rarely implemented, and it was only after the revisions of 1986 that this changed. Since then, the Korean law has been amended numerous times to protect the interests of various industries creating copyrighted works and bring Korean copyright law more in line with the international standards, such as those of the WIPO. The number of copyright cases and rulings has grown significantly since 1986. Kyu Ho Youm noted that since the 1980s, copyright law has been transformed \"from a largely ignored legal notion to a hotly debated concept in and out of court\".\n\nWhile the Korean copyright law has some unique characteristics, it has heavily drawn from foreign examples—particularly those of the United States.\n\nFreedom of panorama in Korea is limited with regard to works of art in public places which cannot be distributed for commercial purposes.\n\nThe 2009 law has generated a number of criticisms, including from organizations such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The critics argue that the current copyright law gives too much power to the copyright holders, which can hurt Korean competitiveness and culture, and \"de facto\" limits the freedom of expression and thus boosts Internet censorship in South Korea. Hundreds of Korean Internet users have been disconnected from the Internet after not three, but one strike; \"half of those suspended were involved in infringement of material that would cost less than 90 U.S. cents\". In March 2013 Korea's National Human Rights Commission recommended a reexamination of the 2009 law, noting that its benefits are poorly documented, while it poses serious concerns to the issues related to cultural expression and human rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "220477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220477", "title": "Cory Doctorow", "text": "Cory Doctorow\n\nCory Efram Doctorow (; born July 17, 1971) is a Canadian-British blogger, journalist, and science fiction author who serves as co-editor of the blog \"Boing Boing\". He is an activist in favour of liberalising copyright laws and a proponent of the Creative Commons organization, using some of their licenses for his books. Some common themes of his work include digital rights management, file sharing, and post-scarcity economics.\n\nDoctorow was born in Toronto, Ontario. His father was born in a refugee camp in Azerbaijan. Although he is an admirer of acclaimed novelist E. L. Doctorow, the two are of no known relation, contrary to popular belief; the surname \"Doctorow\" is somewhat common among Jewish people of Eastern European descent. In elementary school, Doctorow befriended Tim Wu. He received his high school diploma from the SEED School, and attended four universities without attaining a degree. He later served on the board of directors for the Grindstone Island Co-operative in Big Rideau Lake in Ontario.\n\nIn June 1999, he co-founded the free software P2P company Opencola with John Henson and Grad Conn. The company was sold to the Open Text Corporation of Waterloo, Ontario, during the summer of 2003.\nDoctorow later relocated to London and worked as European Affairs Coordinator for the Electronic Frontier Foundation for four years, helping to establish the Open Rights Group, before leaving the EFF to pursue writing full-time in January 2006. Upon his departure, Doctorow was named a Fellow of the Electronic Frontier Foundation. He was named the 2006–2007 Canadian Fulbright Chair for Public Diplomacy at the USC Center on Public Diplomacy, sponsored jointly by the Royal Fulbright Commission, the Integrated Media Systems Center, and the USC Center on Public Diplomacy. The professorship included a one-year writing and teaching residency at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, United States. He then returned to London, but remained a frequent public speaker on copyright issues.\n\nIn 2009, Doctorow became the first Independent Studies Scholar in Virtual Residence at the University of Waterloo in Ontario. He was a student in the program during 1993–94, but left without completing a thesis. Doctorow is also a Visiting Professor at the Open University in the United Kingdom. In 2012 he was awarded an honorary doctorate from The Open University.\n\nDoctorow married Alice Taylor in October 2008, and together they have one daughter named Poesy Emmeline Fibonacci Nautilus Taylor Doctorow, who was born in 2008. Doctorow became a British citizen by naturalisation on 12 August 2011.\n\nIn 2015, Doctorow decided to leave London and move to Los Angeles, feeling disappointed by London's \"death\" from Britain's choice of Conservative government. He claims on his blog, \"But London is a city whose two priorities are being a playground for corrupt global elites who turn neighbourhoods into soulless collections of empty safe-deposit boxes in the sky, and encouraging the feckless criminality of the finance industry. These two facts are not unrelated.\" He rejoined the EFF in January 2015 to campaign for the eradication of digital rights management (DRM).\n\nHe served as Canadian Regional Director of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America in 1999.\n\nTogether with Austrian art group monochrom, he initiated the \"Instant Blitz Copy Fight\" project, which asks people from all over the world to take flash pictures of copyright warnings in movie theaters.\n\nOn October 31, 2005, Doctorow was involved in a controversy concerning digital rights management with Sony-BMG, as told in \"Wikinomics\".\n\nAs a user of the Tor anonymity network for more than a decade during his global travels, Doctorow publicly supports the network; furthermore, Boing Boing operates a \"high speed, high-quality exit node.\"\n\nDoctorow was the keynote speaker at the July 2016 Hackers on Planet Earth conference.\n\nDoctorow began selling fiction when he was 17 years old and sold several stories followed by publication of his story \"Craphound\" in 1998.\n\n\"Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom,\" Doctorow's first novel, was published in January 2003, and was the first novel released under one of the Creative Commons licences, allowing readers to circulate the electronic edition as long as they neither made money from it nor used it to create derived works. The electronic edition was released simultaneously with the print edition. In March 2003, it was re-released with a different Creative Commons licence that allowed derivative works such as fan fiction, but still prohibited commercial usage. It was nominated for a Nebula Award, and won the Locus Award for Best First Novel in 2004. A semi-sequel short story named \"Truncat\" was published on Salon.com in August 2003.\n\nHis novel \"Someone Comes to Town, Someone Leaves Town,\" published in June 2005, was chosen to launch the Sci-Fi Channel's book club, Sci-Fi Essentials (now defunct).\n\nDoctorow's other novels have been released with Creative Commons licences that allow derived works and prohibit commercial usage, and he has used the model of making digital versions available, without charge, at the same time that print versions are published.\n\nHis Sunburst Award-winning short story collection\"A Place So Foreign and Eight More\" was also published in 2004: \"0wnz0red\" from this collection was nominated for the 2004 Nebula Award for Best Novelette.\n\nDoctorow released the bestselling novel \"Little Brother\" in 2008 with a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike licence. It was nominated for a Hugo Award for Best Novel in 2009. and won the 2009 Prometheus Award, Sunburst Award, and the 2009 John W. Campbell Memorial Award.\n\nHis novel \"Makers\" was released in October 2009, and was serialized for free on the Tor Books website.\n\nDoctorow released another young adult novel, \"For the Win\", in May 2010. The novel is available free on the author's website as a Creative Commons download, and is also published in traditional paper format by Tor Books. The book concerns massively multiplayer online role-playing games.\n\nDoctorow's short story collection \"With a Little Help\" was released in printed format on May 3, 2011. It is a project to demonstrate the profitability of Doctorow's method of releasing his books in print and subsequently for free under Creative Commons.\n\nIn September 2012, Doctorow released \"The Rapture of the Nerds\", a novel written in collaboration with Charles Stross.\n\nDoctorow's young adult novel \"Pirate Cinema\" was released in October 2012. It won the 2013 Prometheus Award.\n\nIn February 2013, Doctorow released \"Homeland\", the sequel to his novel \"Little Brother\". It won the 2014 Prometheus Award (Doctorow's third novel to win this award).\n\nHis novel \"Walkaway\" was released in 2017.\n\nDoctorow's nonfiction works include his first book, \"The Complete Idiot's Guide to Publishing Science Fiction\" (co-written with Karl Schroeder and published in 2000), and his contributions to Boing Boing, the blog he co-edits, as well as regular columns in the magazines \"Popular Science\" and \"Make\". He is a contributing writer to \"Wired\" magazine, and contributes occasionally to other magazines and newspapers such as the \"New York Times Sunday Magazine\", \"The Globe and Mail\", \"Asimov's Science Fiction\" magazine, and the \"Boston Globe\". In 2004, he wrote an essay on Wikipedia included in \"The Anthology at the End of the Universe\", comparing Internet attempts at Hitchhiker's Guide-type resources, including a discussion of the Wikipedia article about himself.\n\nDoctorow contributed the foreword to \"Sound Unbound: Sampling Digital Music and Culture\" (The MIT Press, 2008) edited by Paul D. Miller a.k.a. DJ Spooky. He also was a contributing writer for the book \"Worldchanging: A User's Guide for the 21st Century\".\n\nHe popularized the term \"metacrap\" by a 2001 essay titled \"Metacrap: Putting the torch to seven straw-men of the meta-utopia.\" Some of his non-fiction published between 2001 and 2007 has been collected by Tachyon Publications as \"Content: Selected Essays on Technology, Creativity, Copyright, and the Future of the Future\". In 2016 he wrote the article \"Mr. Robot Killed the Hollywood-Hacker\" (published on MIT Technology Review) as a review of the TV show Mr. Robot and argued for a better portrayal and understanding of technology, computers and their risks and consequences in our modern world.\n\nHis essay \"You Can't Own Knowledge\" is included in the Freesouls book project.\n\nHe is the originator of Doctorow's Law: \"Anytime someone puts a lock on something you own, against your wishes, and doesn't give you the key, they're not doing it for your benefit.\"\n\nDoctorow believes that copyright laws should be liberalized to allow for free sharing of all digital media. He has also advocated filesharing. He argues that copyright holders should have a monopoly on \"selling\" their own digital media and that copyright laws should not be operative unless someone attempts to sell a product that is under someone else's copyright.\n\nDoctorow is an opponent of digital rights management and claims that it limits the free sharing of digital media and frequently causes problems for legitimate users (including registration problems that lock users out of their own purchases and prevent them from being able to move their media to other devices).\n\nHe was a keynote speaker at the 2014 international conference CopyCamp in Warsaw with the presentation \"Information Doesn't Want to Be Free.\"\n\nThe webcomic 'xkcd' occasionally features a partially fictional version of Doctorow who lives in a hot air balloon up in the \"blogosphere\" (\"above the tag clouds\") and wears a red cape and goggles, such as in the comic \"Blagofaire\". When Doctorow won the 2007 EFF Pioneer Award, the presenters gave him a red cape, goggles and a balloon.\n\nThe novel \"Ready Player One\" features a mention of Doctorow as being the newly re-elected President of the OASIS User Council (with Wil Wheaton as his Vice-President) in the year 2044, saying that, \"...those two geezers had been doing a kick-ass job of protecting user rights for over a decade.\"\n\nThe comedic role-playing game Kingdom of Loathing features a boss-fight against a monster named Doctor Oh who is described as wearing a red cape and goggles. The commentary before the fight and assorted hit, miss and fumble messages during the battle make reference to Doctorow's advocacy for Open-Source sharing and freedom of media.\n\n\n\n\nIn chronological sequence, unless otherwise indicated\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3090734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3090734", "title": "Crumb rubber", "text": "Crumb rubber\n\nCrumb rubber is recycled rubber produced from automotive and truck scrap tires. During the recycling process, steel and tire cord (fluff) are removed, leaving tire rubber with a granular consistency. Continued processing with a granulator or cracker mill, possibly with the aid of cryogenics or by mechanical means, reduces the size of the particles further. The particles are sized and classified based on various criteria including color (black only or black and white). The granulate is sized by passing through a screen, the size based on a dimension (1/4 inch) or \"mesh\" (holes per inch : 10, 20, etc.). Crumb rubber is often used in artificial turf as cushioning.\n\nThe first synthetic grass was placed over concrete in 1964 and became known as “Chem Grass”. It was later named “Astro Turf” when it was installed in the Houston Astrodome in 1966. Athletes did not like playing on these fields because it was dangerous and not comfortable for their landings. Compared to only a thin layer of Astro Turf on top of concrete, a new artificial turf was developed in the early 2000s and was called styrene butadiene rubber, most commonly known as “crumb rubber.” This rubber was made of small black crumb pieces that came from old tires. The tire crumbs were poured in between the fake grass blades, giving the artificial fields more cushion and support. This was a better solution and satisfied athletes and aided in the prevention of major injuries.\n\nRubberized asphalt is the largest market for crumb rubber in the United States, consuming an estimated , or approximately 12 million tires annually. Crumb rubber is also used as ground cover under playground equipment, and as a surface material for running tracks and athletic fields.\n\n\nThe following are common classifications of crumb rubber:\n\nRetreaders tire buffings shall consist of clean, fresh, dry buffings from tire retread preparation operations.\n\nNo.1 - Tire Granule shall consist of granulated tire crumb, Black Only Guaranteed MetalFree, sized. Magnetically separated materials are not acceptable. Fluff from tire cord removed.\n\nNo.2 - Tire Granule shall consist of granulated tire crumb, Black & White Guaranteed MetalFree, sized to minus 40 Mesh. Magnetically separated materials are not acceptable. Fluff from tire cord removed.\n\nNo.3 - Tire Granule shall consist of granulated tire crumb, Black Only Magnetically Separated, sized. Fluff from tire cord removed.\n\nNo.4 - Tire Granule shall consist of granulated tire crumb, Black & White Magnetically Separated, sized. Fluff from tire cord removed.\n\nNo.5 - Tire Granule shall consist of unclassified granulated tire crumb, Sized, Unseparated, not magnetically separated, fluff from tire cord not removed.\n\n\nWhen dealing with asphalt overlays, reflection cracks can arise and cause an unwanted crack pattern beneath the pavement. Rubber-modified asphalt uses stress absorbing membranes that reduce the reflective cracking because of its elastic properties. With fewer cracks, there are fewer repairs, so crumb rubber assists in reducing maintenance costs. The pavement has an increased lifespan because after multiple uses and exposure to different elements, regular asphalt loses elasticity over time. The use of the artificial rubber resists the formation of cracks and has an anti-aging effect that keeps the asphalt in a better condition.\n\nCrumb rubber infill has been a widely studied topic. To date, there are nearly 100 studies and reports, from government bodies and independent researchers, that have assessed the potential for health risks based on various pathways of exposure. Connecticut’s Department of Public Health conducted an extensive study and published three peer-reviewed studies on the safety of crumb rubber and determined that there is “no scientific support for a finding of elevated cancer risk from inhalation or ingestion of chemicals derived from recycled tires used on artificial turf fields.” The Massachusetts’s Department of Health also studied crumb rubber and came to a similar conclusion. Three federal agencies are currently conducting a study as well.\nHowever and more up-to-date: The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are about to conclude a peer led study of all US studies in mid to late 2018, using peer and public evidence to fill in the information gaps between the avenues of study and real life anecdotal concerns, experiences with medical scientific perspectives included.\nIn the EU, the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) had also produced a report titled ANNEX XV which specifically looked at rubber crumb chemical make up and at concerns. It too overall concluded that the risks were extremely low compared to the benefits of health and exercise presumably. However, as recently as 2017 and again now in 2018, further chemicals have begun to be scrutinized further which were previously unregistered in that incarnation of the ANNEX report on rubber crumb. Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC's) are carcinogenic chemicals, endocrine disruptive chemicals and chemicals dangerous to aquatic life and are more and more being identified as in need of restriction in the ECHA REACH2018 program. Chemicals such as chrysene, benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(e)pyrene, benzene and others are now on the restricted chemicals Candidate List, ready to be included in the next incarnation of the ANNEX XIV report, presumably also in 2018. To see the ECHA restricted chemicals Candidate List, click here . With PAHs, phthalates, lead and all of the other substances already mentioned thus far in this overall topic, it is worth mentioning that none of the studies have looked at the cocktail effects of these various chemicals or substances of concerns and in 2018, the US professional female football goalie who in recent years coaches younger goalies, noticed an increase in the number of adolescent goalies with cancers. Ami Griffin's discoveries have been logged by her over a number of years. Her findings are perhaps anecdotal but nevertheless, do point at a link between younger players who have played on surfaces that have rubber crumb as the infill and with them developing cancers. To see that study, click here .\n\nArtificial turf fields are found all over the United States and are most commonly found at major high schools and athletic facilities. Crumb rubber is used in the “infill” in artificial turf systems to make the surface safe. Volumes of research and testing from academics, federal and state governments including New York, California, Massachusetts and Connecticut, and school systems have examined everything called into question about synthetic turf. Many of these studies concluded that no health risks exist. Contradicting studies have found that the raw source material (automotive tires) contains high levels of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and metals such as zinc which have proven dermal, acute, and long-term health affects. The EPA is (as of fall 2015) investigating the health affects of exposure to crumb rubber and the initial results of this study are expected at the beginning of 2016.\n\nState of Connecticut - Department of Public Health: \"Based upon these findings, the use of outdoor and indoor artificial turf fields is not associated with elevated health risks. However, it would be prudent for building operators to provide adequate ventilation to prevent a buildup of rubber-related volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and semi-volatile organic compounds (SVOCs) at indoor fields. The current study did not evaluate new fields under hot weather conditions and so the potential for acute risks under this circumstance is another uncertainty. The current results are generally consistent with the findings from studies conducted by New York City, New York State, the USEPA and Norway which tested different kinds of fields and under a variety of weather conditions. Thus, it appears that the current results are reasonably representative of conditions that can be encountered at indoor and outdoor crumb rubber fields, although this tentative conclusion could benefit from the testing of additional fields..\"\n\nBrian T. Pavilonis, Clifford P. Weisel, Brian Buckley, and Paul J. Lioy: “The study demonstrated that for the products and fields we tested, exposure to infill and artificial turf was generally considered , with the possible exception of lead for some fields and materials.”\n\nFIFA’s Chief Medical Officer Prof. Jiří Dvořák says that “The majority of the studies have been on higher surface area particles and have concluded they are currently acceptable. Therefore the larger granules used in artificial turf will have even less potential for emissions. For example a study undertaken by the Danish Ministry of the Environment concluded that the health risk on children’s playgrounds that contained both worn tires and granulate rubber was insignificant. The available body of research does not substantiate the assumption that cancer resulting from exposure to styrene-butadiene (SBR) granulate infills in artificial turf could potentially occur.”\n\nScientific Instrument Services, Volatile Organic Emissions from Automobile Tires, 1999, Santford V. Overton & John J. Manura : Tire \"Brand A were found to contain numerous straight and branched chain hydrocarbons, aldehydes, alcohols, ketones, furans and benzene derivatives.\" Tire brand B was...\"found to contain high concentrations of the compounds sulfur dioxide (DOT), 2-methyl-1-propene, 2-propanone, 2-methyl-2-pentene, 2,4-pentanedione, acetic acid and 2,4-(1H, 3H) pyrimidinedione.\" Chemicals extracted from raw tires in this study would be found in crumb rubber, which is made by grinding feedstock tires. The chemicals listed above include carcinogens, and other chemicals with dermal and endocrine disrupting impacts.\n\nCrumb rubber is used as a filling in artificial turf fields. In 2007, use in this capacity prevented about 300 million pounds of rubber from polluting landfills. Generally, it takes 20,000–40,000 scrap tires to produce enough filling to cover an average football field (City of Portland, 2008)\n\nThe Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection found in a 2010 study that stormwater passing through crumb rubber regularly exceeded aquatic acute toxicity for zinc. Additionally, copper, barium, manganese and aluminum were found at elevated levels after stormwater contacted the materials. Semi-volatile organic compounds and PAHs were found to be elevated as well. The levels of most of these compounds were higher than background but were below levels regulated in waterways for environmental protection.\n"}
{"id": "5924074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5924074", "title": "Employment Act 1982", "text": "Employment Act 1982\n\nThe Employment Act 1982 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (1982 c. 46), mainly relating to trade unions. It increased compensation for those dismissed because of the closed shop and restricted the immunities enjoyed by trade unions.\n\nThe Conservative government had already passed the Employment Act 1980 which restricted the definition of lawful picketing and introduced ballots on the existence of the closed shop where it operated, needing 80% support of the workers to be maintained. The 1982 Act was a direct response to the consultations held on the basis of the Green Paper, \"Trade Union Immunities\" (Cmnd. 8128), published in January 1981.\n\nThe Secretary of State for Employment, Norman Tebbit, introduced the Bill in the House of Commons, saying: \n\nWe have not sought to transform the whole framework of industrial relations law...we have tried to provide specific remedies for real abuses, to promote effective protection where it has been shown to be necessary, and to redress the imbalance of bargaining power to which the legislation of the last Government had contributed so significantly.\n\nThe Act's main provisions came into force on 1 December, 1982. The statute:\n\n\nA Trades Union Congress Special Conference was held on 5 April 1982, where trade union leaders voted to support an eight-point plan to oppose the Act. A campaign pack entitled \"Fight Tebbit's Law\" was issued, and a travelling exhibition toured trade union conferences. The TUC encouraged trade unions to refuse to vote in closed shop ballots; to refuse public money for ballots under the Employment Act 1980; to gain the support of other trade unions in disputes; to forbid their members to sit on industrial tribunals concerning cases on the closed shop; and to help the TUC co-ordinate industrial action in support of any trade union facing legal action by an employer. A levy of ten pence per trade union member was raised to finance this campaign, which raised over one million pounds to 'Kill the Bill'. Trade union leaders voted overwhelmingly at the TUC Conference on 7 September 1982 for militant resistance—including industrial action—to the Act.\n\nThe General Secretary of the TUC, Len Murray, said of the TUC campaign:\n\nThe President of the National Union of Mineworkers, Arthur Scargill, said of the Act: \"There is only one response that this movement can give, faced with this legislation. We should say \"We will defy the law\".\"\n\nChairman of the TUC Employment Committee, Bill Keys, said:\n\nThe TUC President for 1982, Frank Chapple, disagreed:\n\nJudging by opinion polls, the Act had the support of the general public and trade unionists. A MORI poll in November 1981 revealed that 79% of the public and 77% of trade unionists agreed that regular ballots should be held in existing closed shops; 70% of the public and 61% of trade unionists agreed that a company should be allowed to sue a trade union if it lost money in dispute which was unconnected to the company; and 76% of the public and 70% of trade unionists agreed that companies should be able to sue trade unions which broke agreements.\n\nA Marplan poll showed that half of the trade unionists questioned opposed unlawful action in defiance of the Act. Less than 50% of trade unionists in a MORI poll supported the TUC campaign, and a Gallup poll found that over 50% of the public and trade unionists believed that leaders of trade union who broke the law should be sent to prison. \n\nTebbit in his memoirs says of the Act: \"I have no doubt that Act was my greatest achievement in Government and I believe it has been one of the principal pillars on which the Thatcher economic reforms have been built.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3176168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3176168", "title": "Foreign worker visa", "text": "Foreign worker visa\n\nA foreign worker visa is an immigration document that allows a foreign national to temporarily live and work in a country. Ideally, such foreign nationals remedy a skill shortage in the host country, which gains support of business groups. \n\n"}
{"id": "326010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326010", "title": "Gabelle", "text": "Gabelle\n\nThe gabelle () was a very unpopular tax on salt in France that was established during the mid-14th century and lasted, with brief lapses and revisions, until 1946. The term gabelle is derived from the Italian \"gabella\" (a duty), itself originating from the Arabic word \"qabala\" قَبَلَ (\"he received\").\n\nIn France, the gabelle was originally an indirect tax that was applied to agricultural and industrial commodities, such as bed sheets, wheat, spices, and wine. However, from the 14th century onward, the gabelle was limited and solely referred to the French crown’s taxation of salt.\n\nBecause the gabelle affected all French citizens (for use in cooking, for preserving food, for making cheese and for raising livestock) and propagated extreme regional disparities in salt prices, the salt tax stood as one of the most hated and grossly unequal forms of revenue generation in the country’s history. Repealed in 1790 by the National Assembly in the midst of the French Revolution, the gabelle was later reinstated by Napoleon Bonaparte in 1806. It was briefly terminated and reinstated again during the French Second Republic and ultimately abolished in 1945 following France’s liberation from Nazi Germany.\n\nIn 1229, when the Albigensian Crusades were brought to a close by Louis IX and his mother (Blanche of Castile), France gained control of the Rhône Estuary and nearby Mediterranean coast. This led to the establishment of the first French Mediterranean port city of Aigues-Mortes in 1246, literally translated to Dead Waters, and the creation of a vast network of salt-evaporation ponds. These saltworks would fund St. Louis’ (as he was later called) ambitions of crusading in the Middle East. A profitable means of generating revenue for France’s wars, this royal control over salt and its production stands as the origin of the infamous French salt gabelle.\n\nA temporary tax under St. Louis, in 1259, his brother Charles I further established royal control over salt, in this case over the Berre saltworks near Marseilles. This salt administration would eventually encompass Peccais, Aigues-Mortes, and the region of Camargue and come to be known as the Pays de petites gabelles. On March 16, 1341, Philip VI of Valois established the first permanent royal tax on salt in France, known as the Pays de grandes gabelles.\n\nRepressive as a state monopoly, it was made doubly so by the government obliging every individual above the age of eight years to buy weekly a minimum amount of salt at a fixed price. Known as the \"Sel de devoir\", translated to \"salt duty\", citizens in the \"Pays de grandes gabelles\" region were forced to buy up to 7 kilograms of salt per year. Furthermore, they were unable to use this salt for making salted products, which was considered illegal and could lead to charges of \"faux saunage\", or salt fraud. Failing to adhere to this could lead to imprisonment and, if repeated, death.\n\nEach province had a \"Greniers à sel\"—a salt granary—where all salt produced from that region needed to be taken in order to be bought (at a fixed price) and sold (at an inflated price).\n\nWhen first instituted, the \"gabelle\" was levied uniformly on all the provinces in France at a rate of 1.66% on the sale price. However, for the greater part of its history, the prices varied and resulted in large disparities between the different provinces. There were six distinct groups of provinces, which were called \"pays\" (lit. \"countries\"; to be understood as an obsolete word for \"region\"), and classified as follows:\n\nBecause all of the \"Pays\" had extreme disparities in tax rates and salt consumption, opportunities for smuggling were ripe within France. In 1784, Jacques Necker, a French statesman of Swiss birth and finance minister of Louis XVI until the French Revolution, reported that a minot of salt, which was 49 kilograms (107.8 pounds) cost only 31 sous in Brittany, but 81 in Poitou, 591 in Anjou, and 611 in Berry.\n\nThe large differences in cost between various \"pays\" clearly show the reason behind the active smuggling of salt that took place in France until the gabelle was abolished. The obvious means of smuggling salt was to buy it in a region where it was cheap and to sell it illegally in regions where it was expensive, at a higher price, but still less than the legal price. Such smugglers were called \"faux-sauniers\", from \"faux\" (\"false\") and the root \"sau\"-, referring to salt. They were able to amass large fortunes and seen by French citizens as heroes against an arbitrary and oppressive tax of a common good necessary to life. In turn, the customs guards tasked with arresting the \"faux-sauniers\" were called \"gabelous\", a term obviously derived from the gabelle they sought to uphold. They were despised by common folk as they were, without cause, able to search people and their homes to find illegal salt. The \"gabelous\" carried weapons and were known to grope women for pleasure under the guise of looking for salt. However, women were often used to smuggle salt under their dresses and sometimes used false derrières known as \"faux culls\". By the end of the eighteenth century, female smuggling was so common in some areas, especially in the west, that more women were arrested than men. It has been estimated that between 1759 and 1788, out of the 4788 arrests in Laval, 2845 women and children were arrested, amounting to more than half.\n\nUnder the 1640 codification of gabelle law by Jean-Baptiste Colbert, participating in \"faux saunage\", warranted a range of harsh punishments. Merely housing a \"faux-saunier\" could lead to imprisonment, fines, and, if repeated, death. \"Faux-sauniers\" could be sentenced to up to ten years on a galley if they were caught without weapons, and to death if caught while armed. Other forms of \"faux-saunage\" included sheepherders letting their flock drink from salty ponds, traders overly salting cod during transportation, and fishing at night (so that fisherman with great knowledge of waterways could not smuggle salt). French nobles, if caught buying contraband salt, would immediately lose their status of nobility following their first offense. In 1773, along the Loire River, which separated the regions of Brittany and Anjou, with respective salt prices of 31 sous and 591 sous, over 3000 soldiers were stationed in response to the massive amounts of smuggling that took place.\n\nThere are many reasons for the French Revolution, but the unfair taxes and financial burden imposed upon the lower-classes and peasants was a main facet of the general population’s discontent. Each year, by the end of the 18th century, about 3000 citizens (men, women, and children) were being imprisoned, sent to the galleys, or put to death for crimes against the gabelle. All the while, religious persons, nobility, and high-ranking officials were often exempt from the gabelle or paid much lower taxes. In 1789, following the ascension of the National Assembly, the gabelle was voted down and abolished throughout France. Later, in 1790, the National Assembly decided that all persons imprisoned for breaking laws pertaining to the gabelle were to be freed from prison and that all charges and convictions were to be permanently dropped.\n\nThis freedom would be short lived, however, as Napoleon Bonaparte reinstated the gabelle in 1804, this time without major exemptions for regions such as Brittany. The gabelle stayed part of France’s legislation until abolished in 1946.\n\nThe gabelle, and other salt taxes, have existed outside France before and after the French Revolution in 1790. The most notable instances are the salt tax in China and the salt tax in India including that under the British.\n\nIn China, a state monopoly on salt, also known as the salt gabelle, has existed since 119 B.C and lasted until 2014, making it the world’s oldest (and possibly first) state monopoly in the world. By the mid-Tang dynasty, taxes on salt brought in more than half of the government's tax revenue, and continued to be a major factor even in the 20th century.\n\nIn India, there had been a tax on salt for hundreds of years but it was greatly increased following the rule of India’s provinces by the British East India Company. In salt producing regions such as Orissa, private sale of salt was prohibited, and salt found being transported had to be sold to the British authorities at a fixed price, and, in later years, the production of salt was banned completely. This was done to maintain the high price of British salt by destroying India’s long established tradition of salt-making. In 1858, when Britain took control of the Indian provinces, these taxes remained.\n\nSalt played a large role in India’s quest for independence. In 1930, Mahatma Gandhi’s famous Salt Satyagraha took place and led to nonviolent protests throughout the provinces of British India. A 24-day, 240-mile march from Sabarmati Ashram to the coastal village of Dandi, Gandhi was going to, at the journey’s end, illegally harvest salt without paying tax to the British Crown. Salt was chosen by Gandhi because its taxation was extremely detrimental to the poorest of Indians and, \"Next to air and water, salt is perhaps the greatest necessity of life.\" Despite the national influence and international recognition gained by the Salt Satyagraha, the salt tax remained until it was repealed by Jawaharlal Nehru, the Prime Minister of the Interim Government, in 1946.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9304980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9304980", "title": "Jus post bellum", "text": "Jus post bellum\n\nJus post bellum (Latin for \"Justice after war\") is a concept that deals with the morality of the termination phase of war. The idea has some historical pedigree as a concept in just war theory. In modern times, it has been developed by a number of just war theorists and international lawyers. However, the concept means different things to the contributors in each field. For lawyers, the concept is much less clearly defined and many have rejected the usefulness of the concept altogether. \n\nBrian Orend is usually considered the initiator of the debate. He argued that just war theory was incomplete in dealing only with the morality of using force (jus ad bellum) and the morality of conduct during war (jus in bello). He said that a third branch of just war theory had been overlooked. He cited Immanuel Kant as the first to consider a three-pronged approach to the morality of armed conflict. \n\nThose interested in the \"jus post bellum\" must also consider the \"lex pacificatoria\". \n\nThe purpose of the concept and its usefulness depends on whether it is considered as a moral or a legal concept. Its usefulness as a matter of law is very unclear. As a concept in just war theory, the \"jus post bellum\" debate considers a number of issues. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48476153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48476153", "title": "Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Local Government Act, 2013", "text": "Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Local Government Act, 2013\n\nThe Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Local Government Act 2013 was passed by the provincial Assembly of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa on 31 October 2013, and is published as an Act of the Provincial Legislature of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa as No.PA/Khyber Pakhtunkhwa/Bills/2013/10518 by the Authority of Local Government Elections & Rural Development Department on 7 November 2013.\n\nAn Act; \n\"\"to construct and regulate local government institutions in the Province of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and to consolidate laws relating to these institutions and to provide for matters connected therewith and ancillary thereto\".\"\n\n---In this Act, unless the context otherwise\nrequires,-\n\n“District” means a revenue district notified under\nthe West Pakistan Land Revenue Act, 1967 (W.P.\nAct No. XVII of 1967);(Clause s)\n\n\"Neighbourhood Council\" means a mohallah, a group of\nstreets, lanes or roads, in areas with urban\ncharacteristics, designated as Neighbourhood by\nGovernment;(Clause f)\n\nA Neighbourhood Council for a Neighbourhood is\nareas with urban characteristics\"(5-f)\".\n\n\"Village or Village Council\" means an integrated and contiguous\nhuman habitation commonly identified by a name and includes a Dhok, Chak, Kalay(Pashto: کلے), Goth, Gaown (Urdu: گاوں), Deh, Basti or any other comparable habitation;(Section ii)\n\nA Village Council for a village is the rural areas\"(5-e)\".\n\n\"Tehsil\" means a Tehsil notified under the \nWest Pakistan Land Revenue Act, 1967 (W.P. Act No.\nXVII of 1967);\"(gg)\".\n\n\"Town\" means an area notified by the Government\nunder section-9 to be a Town in a City District;\"(hh)\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54566264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54566264", "title": "Legislatures of British India", "text": "Legislatures of British India\n\nThe Legislatures of British India included legislative bodies in the presidencies and provinces of British India, the Imperial Legislative Council, the Chamber of Princes and the Central Legislative Assembly. The legislatures were created under Acts of Parliament of the United Kingdom. Initially serving as small advisory councils, the legislatures evolved into partially elected bodies, but were never elected through universal suffrage. Provincial legislatures saw boycotts during the period of dyarchy between 1919 and 1935. After reforms and elections in 1937, the largest parties in provincial legislatures formed governments headed by a Prime Minister. A few British Indian subjects were elected to the Parliament of the United Kingdom, which had superior powers than colonial legislatures. British Indian legislatures did not include Burma's legislative assembly after 1937, the State Council of Ceylon nor the legislative bodies of princely states.\n\nLegislative councils were first formed in each province under the Indian Councils Act 1861. Members would include nominees of the Lieutenant Governor who had to receive consent from the Governor General of India. Native Indian subjects were a minority in the early councils, which were dominated by Europeans and Anglo-Indians. The Lieutenant Governor could nominate a maximum of 12 members to these councils, which did not have fixed term limits. The councils were merely advisory bodies for the provincial governments.\n\nUnder the Indian Councils Act 1892, the legislative councils expanded to 20 members. The councils were empowered to address questions to the executive and discuss budgets without voting. The Lieutenant Governor would nominate 7 members from the recommendations of universities, city corporations, municipalities, district boards and chambers of commerce. The majority of councilors continued to be European and a minority were Indian. \n\nThe Morley-Minto Reforms were the brainchild of John Morley, the Secretary of State for India, and Earl Minto, the Viceroy of India. The reforms were enacted under the Indian Councils Act 1909, which brought amendments to the Acts of 1861 and 1892. However, they did not go as far as the demands for home rule put forward by the Indian National Congress. Colonial administrators were not keen to grant parliamentary powers to India, possibly for fear of subversion. Britain was also a unitary state and little power was given its regional or colonial units. Under the Act of 1909, the number of seats in legislative councils were expanded. Councils were established at the central level and for gubernatorial provinces. Under the reforms, the majority of councilors would be elected and a minority would be nominated from the government. Property owners, including the zamindars, became voters. Muslims were given the status of a \"separate electorate\". The Act increased the powers of legislative council to discuss budgets, suggest amendments and vote on limited matters. Representatives from plantations, commercial chambers, universities and landholders were given seats in the assembly. Education, local government, public health, public works, agriculture and cooperative societies were made \"transferred subjects\" to be administered by the elected representatives. The \"reserved subjects\" were to be administered by the Executive Council. Reserved subjects included finance, police, land revenue, law, justice and labour.\n\nA dyarchy is a system of shared government. In British India, the British government decided to share responsibilities with legislative councils in major provinces.\nAs a result of Montagu–Chelmsford Reforms, the British government decided to gradually grant self-governing institutions to India. The Government of India Act, 1919 established a bicameral central legislature and granted revenue shares to provincial legislative councils. The British government elaborated that the system would continue for at least 10 years until a review. The Swaraj Party and Congress Party, which enjoyed majorities in the councils, boycotted the dyarchy- arguing that the reforms once again did not go far enough. The Congress increased its non-cooperation movement. However, constitutionalists in parties like the All India Muslim League continued to advocate their constituents' interests within the councils.\n\nThe Rowlatt Act, Amritsar massacre and Khilafat movement worsened the political situation. In 1928, the Nehru Report called for a federal democracy. In 1929, the Fourteen Points of Jinnah demanded electoral, administrative and political reform. The Simon Commission was formed to explore constitutional reform.\n\nIn 1932, the \"Communal Award\" was announced by British Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald granting separate electorates to Forward Caste, Lower Caste, Muslims, Buddhists, Sikhs, Indian Christians, Anglo-Indians, Europeans and Untouchables (now known as the Dalits) instead of equal universal franchise. The principle of weightage was also applied. \n\nThe award was highly controversial and criticized as a divide and rule policy. The British government opined that it wanted to avoid civil war.\n\nThe Government of India Act, 1935 ended dyarchy in the provinces and increased autonomy. Six provinces were given bicameral legislatures. Elections based on separate electorates were held in 1937 and 1946, leading to the formation of provincial ministries (governments) led by a Prime Minister.\n\nMost of the provincial governments were unstable amid the outbreak of World War II, the Bengal famine of 1943 and the Quit India movement.\n\nA number of British Indians and Anglo-Indians were elected to the British parliament, particularly from the Parsi and Jewish communities. They included Dadabhai Naoroji, Mancherjee Bhownagree, Shapurji Saklatvala, Philip Sassoon and Ernest Soares.\n\nThe Chamber of Princes was established by a proclamation of King George V in 1920. It was a forum for the rulers of princely states to air their views and engage with the colonial government. It was housed in the Parliament House and its meetings were presided over by the Viceroy of India.\n\nPrior to the Partition of British India, the imperial legislature was succeeded by the Constituent Assembly of India, from which the Interim Government of India headed by the Viceroy of India chose ministers in 1946. In the Dominion of Pakistan, the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan succeeded the Indian assembly in 1947. In the provinces of both India and Pakistan, pre-partition assemblies continued to function. The assemblies of Bengal and the Punjab were divided between the newly formed sub-national units of East Bengal, West Bengal, East Punjab and West Punjab. The Parliament of India was established in 1952. The National Assembly of Pakistan was established in 1956. In 1971, secessionist Bengali legislators in East Pakistan formed a constituent assembly; and the Parliament of Bangladesh was established in 1972.\n\nThe legislatures of colonial British India were precursors to modern parliamentary democracy in the Indian subcontinent. The notion of parliamentary sovereignty took root in the subcontinent after independence, but has faced many challenges. President's rule is often imposed in Indian states to dismiss legislatures. India underwent a period of emergency rule between 1975 and 1977. Pakistan has seen martial law and military rule between 1958-1962, 1969-1973, 1977-1985 and 1999-2002. Bangladesh underwent presidential rule, martial law and semi-presidential government between 1975 and 1990; while emergency rule was imposed between 2007 and 2008.\n\nToday, the federal republic of India and its 29 states; the federal republic of Pakistan and its four provinces; and the unitary republic of Bangladesh; all have parliamentary governments, largely derived from the Westminster tradition.\n"}
{"id": "46735550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46735550", "title": "List of Chinese spy cases in the United States", "text": "List of Chinese spy cases in the United States\n\nCases of individuals spying on the United States of America on behalf of the intelligence services of the People's Republic of China.\n\nJerry Ji Guo is a Chinese-born immigrant that has been living in the US for more than two decades. He is a graduate of Yale University and has previously worked in various industries including journalism where he worked for the Newsweek, New York Times as well as The Washington Post in addition, he's also worked at Silicon Valley Startups such as Grouper, in all of these previously mentioned instances, he has been fired for making inappropriate monetary gains from his position. He is currently being held by the FBI on 8 counts of wire fraud and espionage in connection to alleged charges of stealing $3.5mm in Bitcoin from various parties, these charges carry a sentence of up to 20 years in Federal prison. \n\nLarry Wu-Tai Chin worked in the U.S. intelligence community for nearly 35 years while providing China with classified information. Chin was recruited as a spy by a Chinese Communist official in 1948; an interpreter at the U.S. consulate in Shanghai, he was later hired by the CIA’s Foreign Broadcast Information Service. After he became an American citizen in 1965 he was transferred to Arlington, Virginia, where he had access to reports from intelligence agents abroad and translations of documents acquired by CIA officers in China. Chin sold classified National Intelligence Estimates pertaining to China and Southeast Asia to China, enabling the country to discover weaknesses in its intelligence agencies and compromise U.S. intelligence activities in the region. He provided sensitive information about Richard Nixon’s plans for normalizing relations with China two years before the president visited the country. In February 1986, Chin was convicted of 17 counts of espionage, conspiracy and tax evasion, but committed suicide before he could be sentenced.\n\nIn 1982 FBI special agent James Smith recruited Katrina Leung, a 28-year-old Chinese immigrant, to work in Chinese counterintelligence. Leung, a prominent business consultant, was valued for her contacts with high-level Chinese officials. Smith and Leung became involved in a sexual relationship lasting nearly two decades. At this time, Smith made classified documents available to Leung; she copied them, providing China with information on nuclear, military and political issues. Another FBI agent, William Cleveland, also became sexually involved with Leung. On January 6, 2005, U.S. District Judge Florence Marie Cooper dismissed Leung's case on the grounds of prosecutorial misconduct.\n\nLee, a physicist born in China who worked at the Los Alamos National Laboratory and later for TRW Inc., pleaded guilty to lying on security-clearance forms and passing classified national-defense information to Chinese scientists on business trips to Beijing. He compromised classified weapons information, microwave submarine-detection technology and other national-defense data, and the Department of Energy later concluded that his disclosure of classified information \"was of significant material assistance to the PRC in their nuclear weapons development program ... This analysis indicated that Dr. Lee's activities have directly enhanced the PRC nuclear weapons program to the detriment of U.S. national security.\"\n\nChi Mak is a Chinese-born engineer who worked for L-3 Communications, a California-based defense contractor, as a support engineer on Navy quiet-drive propulsion technology. According to recovered documents, he was instructed by his Chinese contacts to join \"more professional associations and participate in more seminars with 'special subject matters' and to compile special conference materials on disk\". He was instructed to gather information on space-based electromagnetic intercept systems, space-launched magnetic-levitation platforms, electromagnetic gun or artillery systems, submarine torpedoes, electromagnetic launch systems, aircraft carrier electronic systems, water-jet propulsion, ship submarine propulsion, power-system configuration technology, weapons-system modularization, technologies to defend against nuclear attack, shipboard electromagnetic motor systems, shipboard internal and external communications systems and information on the next generation of U.S. destroyers. He copied and sent sensitive documents on U.S. Navy ships, submarines and weapons to China by courier. In 2008, he was sentenced to a -year prison term for espionage.\n\nIn May 2006, Ko-Suen (Bill) Moo pleaded guilty to being a covert agent of China. Moo attempted to purchase United States military equipment to send to China when he was arrested by undercover United States agents. Some of the equipment included an F-16 fighter jet engine, an AGM-129A cruise missile, UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter engines and AIM-120 air-to-air missiles.\n\nWen Ho Lee is a Taiwanese-American scientist who worked for the University of California at the Los Alamos National Laboratory. He created simulations of nuclear explosions for the purpose of scientific inquiry and to improve the safety and reliability of the U.S. nuclear arsenal. In December 1999, a federal grand jury indicted him of stealing secrets about the arsenal for China.\n\nAfter federal investigators could not prove the initial accusations, the government conducted a separate investigation. It could only charge Lee with improper handling of restricted data, part of the original 59-count indictment to which he pleaded guilty as part of a plea bargain. In June 2006, Lee received $1.6 million from the federal government and five media organizations as partial settlement of a civil suit he filed against them for leaking his name to the press before charges were filed against him. At the conclusion of the case, Presiding federal judge James A. Parker stated that he was misled \"by the executive branch of our government through its Department of Justice, by its Federal Bureau of Investigation and by its United States attorney\". The judge stated that while he couldn't speak on behalf of the executive branch \"I sincerely apologize to you, Dr. Lee, for the unfair manner you were held in custody by the executive branch.\" \n\nFei Ye, a U.S. citizen; and Ming Zhong, a permanent resident of the United States; were arrested at the San Francisco International Airport on November 23, 2001. They were accused of stealing trade secrets in designing a computer microprocessor to benefit China, although prosecutors did not allege that the Chinese government knew of their activities. In December 2002, they were charged with a total of ten counts, including conspiracy; economic espionage; possession of stolen trade secrets; and foreign transportation of stolen property. In 2006 (five years after their arrest), they pleaded guilty to two counts each of economic espionage. In 2008, they were sentenced to a year in prison. The maximum sentence is 30 years however prosecutors asked for less because of their cooperation. The case resulted in the first convictions under the Economic Espionage Act of 1996.\n\nIn 2007, two Silicon Valley engineers, Lan Lee and Yuefei Ge, were charged with economic espionage for stealing microchip design from NetLogic Microsystems, for the benefit of the Chinese military, the People's Liberation Army. Their indictment stated that the two formed a company named SICO Microsystems Inc. to facilitate the alleged theft with the possible involvement of the Chinese government. Their criminal trial started in October 2009. While prosecutors promised the jurors a \"treasure trove\" of evidence against the \"traitors\" and \"spies\", the defense stated the two just wanted to start their own company with their own ideas. \nAfter a month long trial, a federal jury acquitted the two defendants on two counts and were leaning towards acquitting the two by a vote of 9:3 on two most serious counts of economic espionage. Jurors said the U.S. government failed to prove the NetLogic data was even a trade secret and much less aimed to benefit China. \nOn October 27, 2010, after years of ordeal, the indictment against Lee and Ge were dismissed in its entirety by U.S. District Judge James Ware. During jury selection, the U.S. government attempted to remove the sole Chinese-American juror named Yuqiang, but defense successfully argued that he was targeted because of his racial background.\n\nIn February 2009, three former employees of Metaldyne Corporation were sentenced to prison terms in federal court in connection with a conspiracy to steal confidential information from the company, according to Acting United States Attorney Terrence Berg. Anne Lockwood, formerly a Vice President for Sales at Metaldyne, her husband Michael Haehnel, formerly a senior engineer at Metaldyne, and Fuping Liu, a former metallurgist for Metaldyne. Lockwood and Liu both pleaded guilty on September 15, 2008 to the main count of the Indictment, conspiracy to steal confidential and proprietary information belonging to Metaldyne, and using the stolen information in order to assist a Chinese competitor, the Chongqing Huafu Industry Company, (“Huafu”) of Chongqing, China to compete against Metaldyne in the field of powdered metal parts. Haehnel pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor offense charging him with unlawfully accessing stored electronic records. Beginning in May 2004, Lockwood and Liu developed a business plan to help Huafu compete against Metaldyne in the production of powdered metal products. Lockwood obtained both electronic and paper copies of confidential and proprietary information pertaining to Metaldyne’s internal costs and its manufacturing processes, and then provided some of that information to Huafu, in China, to assist it in competing against Metaldyne. Lockwood received 30 months in prison, Haehnel received 6 months in prison, and Liu received 9 months.\n\nBo Jiang, a researcher working on \"source code for high technology imaging\" at NASA's Langley Research Center, was arrested for lying to a federal officer on March 16, 2013 at Washington Dulles International Airport before returning to China. Jiang allegedly told the FBI that he was carrying fewer computer storage devices than he was. He was accused of espionage by Representative Frank Wolf, and was investigated for possible violations of the Arms Export Control Act. An affidavit said that Jiang had previously brought a NASA laptop with sensitive information to China.\n\nU.S. Magistrate Judge Lawrence Leonard ordered Jiang released after a federal prosecutor acknowledged that there was no evidence that he possessed sensitive, secret or classified material. According to Jiang's lawyer, Fernando Groene — a former federal prosecutor who practices out of Williamsburg, Wolf made a \"scapegoat\" of his client. On May 2, Jiang was cleared in federal court of the felony charge of lying to federal investigators. Jiang was nevertheless convicted for downloading copyrighted movies, television shows and sexually explicit images on the NASA-owned laptop.\n\nHua Jun Zhao, 42, was accused of stealing a cancer-research compound from a Medical College of Wisconsin office in Milwaukee in an attempt to deliver it to Zhejiang University, according to an FBI agent’s March 29, 2013 affidavit. Presiding judge Charles N. Clevert found no evidence that \"Zhao had intended to defraud or cause any loss to Medical College of Wisconsin, or even to make money for himself\". Zhao was convicted for \"accessing a computer without authorization and obtaining information worth more than $5,000\" for accessing his research on university-owned computers after school officials seized his own laptop, portable memory devices and papers. According to a sentencing memorandum from Zhao's attorney, the data he downloaded was his own research, though it did belong to the Medical College. Judge Charles N. Clevert adopted the time-served sentence after finding no evidence that Zhao had intended to defraud or cause any loss to Medical College of Wisconsin, or even to make money for himself. \n\nIn July 2014, Walter Lian-Heen Liew (aka Liu Yuanxuan) was sentenced to serve 15 years in prison for violations of the Economic Espionage Act, tax evasion, bankruptcy fraud, and obstruction of justice. Liew was convicted in March 2014 on each of the twenty counts charged. His company was found by the jury to steal trade secrets from E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company to state-owned companies of China, Pangang Group companies.\n\nTwo former Eli Lilly and Co. employees, Guoqing Cao and Shuyu Li, were arrested in Oct 2013 under the charges of theft and conspiracy to commit theft involving drugs that Lilly was developing. The indictment alleged Cao and Li emailed sensitive experimental drug information worth $55 Million to a competing Chinese drug company. U.S. Attorney Joe Hogsett and his deputy, Cynthia Ridgeway characterized the case as \"a crime against the nation\" and called the defendants as \"traitors\". In December, 2014, the U.S. attorney's office dropped charges \"in the interests of justice\".\n\nXiafen \"Sherry\" Chen, 59, was a hydrologist for the federal government in Ohio. She was falsely accused of spying and arrested in October 2014. She was originally charged with four felonies, including that she had illegally downloaded data about national infrastructure and made false statement of telling federal agents that she last seen a Chinese official in 2011, not 2012. Five months later (in March 2015), persuaded by a lawyer, Peter R. Zeidenberg, a partner at Arent Fox in Washington, prosecutors dropped all charges against Mrs. Chen without explanation. On April 23, 2018, Chief Administrative Judge Michele Szary Schroeder ordered the U.S. Department of Commerce to reinstate Chen's employment, citing \"gross injustice\" in her case. \n\nIn May 2015, the United States Department of Justice accused Temple University professor Xiaoxing Xi of sending restricted American technology to China, specifically, the design of a pocket heater used in superconductor research. Xi was arrested by about a dozen FBI agents at his home, and faced charges carrying a maximum penalty of 80 years in prison and a $1 million fine. In September 2015, however, the DOJ dropped all charges against him after leading scientists, including a co-inventor of the pocket heater, provided affidavits that the schematics that Xi shared with Chinese scientists were not restricted technology, and not for a pocket heater. According to Xi's lawyer Peter Zeidenberg, the government did not understand the complicated science and failed to consult with experts before arresting him. He said that the information Xi shared, as part of \"typical academic collaboration\", was about a different device, which Xi co-invented and is not restricted technology. Xi has since sued the FBI, accusing the latter of falsifying evidence against him. \n\nSzuhsiung Ho, aka Allen Ho, 66, a naturalized U.S. citizen, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to unlawfully engage or participate in the production or development of special nuclear material outside the U.S., without the required authorization from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) in violation of the Atomic Energy Act. In April 2016, a federal grand jury issued a two-count indictment against Ho; China General Nuclear Power Company (CGNPC), the largest nuclear power company in China, and Energy Technology International (ETI), a Delaware corporation. At the time of the indictment Ho was a nuclear engineer, employed as a consultant by CGNPC and was also the owner of ETI. CGNPC specialized in the development and manufacture of nuclear reactors and was controlled by China’s State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission. Born in China, Ho is a naturalized U.S. citizen with dual residency in Delaware and China. \n\nNaval officer Lt. Cmdr. Edward C. Lin will serve six years in prison for mishandling classified information in an attempt to impress women. Lin pleaded guilty in May 2017 to mishandling classified information and not reporting foreign contacts relating to his disclosure of secrets to a Taiwanese woman working for a political party and an undercover female FBI agent. He thought the agent, known as Katherine Wu, was a teacher in the middle of a turbulent marriage and decided to share classified info with her in August and September 2015 to impress her. After an investigation beginning in January 2014, authorities arrested him in September 2015 as he was on his way to meet a woman in China. The investigation found that Lin did not report ties to Taiwanese naval officers or his relationships with Chinese women. He met one of the women at a massage parlor in Honolulu. When Navy Lt. Cmdr. Edward Lin was first arrested at the Honolulu airport in 2015 on a flight to China, military investigators thought they had uncovered an espionage case of epic proportions – a Mandarin-speaking Asian-American military officer accused of leaking highly sensitive U.S. military secrets to Chinese and Taiwanese officials. \n\nIn January 2017, Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, Mary B. McCord, Acting Assistant Attorney General for National Security, and William F. Sweeney Jr., Assistant Director-in-Charge of the New York Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”), announced that Kun Shan Chun, a/k/a “Joey Chun,” was sentenced to serve 24 months in prison and pay a $10,000 fine based on his conviction for acting in the United States as an agent of the People’s Republic of China (“China”), without providing prior notice to the Attorney General. CHUN pled guilty on August 1, 2016. U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero imposed today’s sentence. Kun Chun, a native of China and naturalized U.S. citizen, worked as an FBI Technician since 1997 and had Top Secret clearance.\n\nOn March 28, 2017, The F.B.I. arrested a veteran State Department employee who concealed her extensive contacts with Chinese intelligence agents, who for years lavished her with thousands of dollars in gifts. Candace Marie Claiborne, 60, of Washington, was charged with felony obstruction and lying to the F.B.I. after her ties to the Chinese were uncovered, the authorities said. Prosecutors did not disclose where or when the Chinese first approached Ms. Claiborne, but did reveal she had once served in Beijing and Shanghai. “Candace Marie Claiborne is a U.S. State Department employee who possesses a Top Secret security clearance and allegedly failed to report her contacts with Chinese foreign intelligence agents who provided her with thousands of dollars of gifts and benefits,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General McCord. “Claiborne used her position and her access to sensitive diplomatic data for personal profit. Pursuing those who imperil our national security for personal gain will remain a key priority of the National Security Division.”\n\nIn June 2017, Kevin Patrick Mallory was arrested and charged under the Espionage Act on charges of performing espionage on behalf of the Chinese government. Mallory allegedly was given special communications devices for communicating documents to Chinese intelligence agents, including documents classified as Top Secret. The individuals alleged to be working for China's intelligence services represented themselves as working for the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences. Some of the material in his possession is alleged to contain sensitive information on human intelligence sources.\n\nMallory graduated from Brigham Young University in 1981, and resided in Leesburg, Virginia. Prior to his arrest, Mallory had served in the United States Army and worked as a Special Agent for the Diplomatic Security Service from 1987 to 1990. Mallory worked for the Defense Intelligence Agency at some point in his career. He was a self-employed consultant for GlobalEx, LLC. Mallory had previously worked for the Central Intelligence Agency (as a case officer between 1990 and 1996, and as a contractor between 2010 and 2012) and at the American Institute in Taiwan.\n\nOn July 7, 2017, during preliminary court proceedings, U.S. District Judge T. S. Ellis III ordered Mallory's bond revoked, judging him to be a flight risk and a potential threat to national security. The FBI cracked his cell phone and retrieved eight documents, some of which were top secret. In a call to his son, he had attempted to arrange to secrete case evidence in his home. Mallory was convicted on June 8, 2018, of 4 charges: conspiracy to deliver, attempted delivery, delivery of defense information to aid a foreign government, and making material false statements. Mallory faces a maximum penalty of life in prison when he is sentenced on September 21, 2018.\n\nIn January 2018, the F.B.I. arrested former C.I.A. officer Jerry Chun Shing Lee, charging him with unlawful possession of defense information. He may have compromised the identities of numerous CIA spies in China. Jerry Chun Shing Lee, a naturalized U.S. citizen, had worked for the CIA with a top-secret security clearance from 1994 until 2007. Several years after his departure from the CIA, China began capturing and killing U.S. informants. Officials in the U.S. began investigating whether a mole was responsible for outing the identities of sources working with the U.S. In May 2018, Lee was formally charged with conspiracy to commit espionage on behalf of China. According to the indictment, he met two intelligence officers from China’s Ministry of State Security in Shenzhen, a city bordering Hong Kong, in April 2010, and they gave him “a gift of $100,000 cash in exchange for his cooperation”, with the promise that “they would take care of him for life”. Lee received hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash that he deposited into his HSBC bank accounts in Hong Kong between 2010 and 2013, the same time the CIA lost 18 to 20 Chinese informants who were killed on imprisoned for providing sensitive information to the U.S. government. Lee started working for a cigarette company in Hong Kong in 2007, the same year he left the CIA. In 2009, Japan Tobacco International terminated his contract amid suspicions that he was leaking sensitive information about its operations to Chinese authorities. He then set up his own company, also related to the import of cigarettes, which did not succeed. According to court papers, Lee’s business partner in Hong Kong arranged meetings and passed messages from Chinese intelligence officers to him. From June 2013 to September 2015, the former CIA agent worked for the cosmetics company Estée Lauder. At the time of his arrest, he was the head of security at the international auction house Christie’s in Hong Kong.\n\nXu Jiaqiang plead guilty to charges of economic espionage, theft, and possession and distribution of trade secrets, after having been accused of stealing the source code to IBM software, with the intention of benefiting the National Health and Family Planning Commission. On January 18, 2018, Xu was sentenced to five years in prison by District Judge Kenneth M. Karas. Xu previously pled guilty to all six counts with which he was charged.\n\nIn June 2018, Qin was arrested on accusations that he shipped 78 hydrophones for use in anti-submarine warfare to the Northwestern Polytechnical University, which is affiliated with the People's Liberation Army.\n\nOn June 4, 2018, Ron Rockwell Hansen, a U.S. Army veteran and former Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) officer, was arrested on federal charges including the attempted transmission of national defense information to the People’s Republic of China. The FBI agents took Hansen into custody while he was on his way to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport in Seattle to board a connecting flight to China . Fluent in Mandarin and Russian, he was recruited in 2006 to work for the DIA as a case officer, someone who recruits and manages foreign agents. Hansen, who is from Syracuse, Utah, received at least $800,000 from China between 2013 and 2016 when he had serious financial trouble, and could not explain the excessive cash when he carried it into the U.S. Based in a commercial office in Beijing, Hansen made contact with Chinese intelligence and over several years tried to pitch himself to the DIA and FBI as a double agent who would act ultimately for the US, the indictment alleged . Hansen is charged with attempted espionage, acting as an unregistered foreign agent for China, bulk cash smuggling, structuring monetary transactions, and smuggling goods from the United States. If convicted, Mr. Hansen faces a maximum penalty of life in prison .\n\nJi Chaoqun, 27, a Chinese citizen residing in Chicago, was arrested in Chicago on September 25, 2018 for allegedly acting within the United States as an illegal agent of the People’s Republic of China. Ji worked at the direction of a high-level intelligence officer in the Jiangsu Province Ministry of State Security, a provincial department of the Ministry of State Security for the People’s Republic of China, according to a criminal complaint and affidavit filed in U.S. District Court in Chicago.  Ji was tasked with providing the intelligence officer with biographical information on eight individuals for possible recruitment by the JSSD, the complaint states.  The individuals included Chinese nationals who were working as engineers and scientists in the United States, some of whom were U.S. defense contractors, according to the complaint .\n\nYanjun Xu, also known as Qu Hui and Zhang Hui, was charged in October 2018 with conspiring and attempting to commit economic espionage and steal trade secrets from multiple U.S. aviation and aerospace companies. Xu was arrested in Belgium in April 2018 following the filing of a criminal complaint against him in Cincinnati. The United States has alleged that Xu is a deputy division director for the Ministry of State Security, and that Xu was engaged in espionage against GE Aviation. Xu, a senior officer with China’s Ministry of State Security (MSS), is accused of seeking to steal trade secrets from leading aviation firms, top Justice Department officials said. Xu recruited experts to travel to China, often under the guise of asking them to deliver a university presentation and passing himself off as an official with the Jiangsu Science and Technology Promotion Association. Xu often exchanged information with individuals at Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, one of the top engineering schools in China, which has significant influence over the country’s aerospace industry, according to court documents.\n\n"}
{"id": "4843627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4843627", "title": "List of fascist movements", "text": "List of fascist movements\n\nThis article discusses regimes and movements that have described themselves as fascist, or are alleged to have been fascist or sympathetic to fascism.\n\nIt is often a matter of dispute whether a certain government is to be characterized as fascist (radical authoritarian nationalism), authoritarian, totalitarian, or a police state. The term \"fascism\" itself is controversial, and has been defined in various ways by different authors. Many of the regimes and movements discussed in this article can be considered fascist according to some definitions but not according to others. See definitions of fascism for more information on that subject.\n\nThe first fascist country, Italy, was ruled by Benito Mussolini (\"Il Duce\") until he was dismissed and arrested on 25 July 1943. Mussolini was then rescued from prison by the Wehrmacht, and set up a short-lived puppet state named \"Repubblica di Salò\" in northern Italy under the protection of the Wehrmacht.\n\nThe National Socialist German Workers Party (Nazis) came to power in Germany as a minority party when its leader, Adolf Hitler, was named chancellor following the elections of 1933. Hitler moved swiftly to consolidate power, first through passage of the Enabling Act of 1933. After the death of President Paul von Hindenburg in 1934, the entire power of the German state was concentrated in Hitler's hands.\n\nThe German National socialists were known for their use of thuggery and intimidation of political opponents and dissenters, including outright persecution of the country's Jewish citizenry, resulting in the Holocaust. Nonetheless, they were widely popular among many segments of the German population, particularly the working class, for their perceived success in reversing the nation's economic decline. One of Hitler's cornerstone policies was known as Lebensraum, which served as the rationale for Germany's expansionist foreign policy and ultimately led to the Second World War.\n\nRight-wing elements in Japan, including industrialists, military officers, and the nobility, had long opposed democracy as an anathema to national unity. Military cliques began to dominate the national government starting in the 1930s. A major militarist nationalist movement in Japan from the 1920s to the 1930s was the Imperial Way Faction \"Kodoha\" of which future wartime Prime Minister Hideki Tōjō was a part. In 1936, Japan and Germany signed the Anti-Comintern Pact, aimed at countering the Soviet Union and the Communist International. In 1940, Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoye established the Imperial Rule Assistance Association, or Taisei Yokusankai, to consolidate all political parties under a single umbrella group. That same year, Japan joined Germany and Italy in the Tripartite Pact.\n\nEngelbert Dollfuß's idea of a \"Ständestaat\" was borrowed from Mussolini. Dollfuß dissolved parliament and established a clerical-fascist dictatorship which lasted until Austria was incorporated into Nazi Germany through the \"Anschluss\" of 1938.\n\nMany historians have argued that Brazil's Estado Novo under Getúlio Vargas was a Brazilian variant of the continental fascist regimes. Briefly, Vargas' regime was aligned with Plínio Salgado's Integralist Party, Brazil's fascist movement. Vargas launched a cult of personality that endures to this day, on top of the \"Worker's Rights\" (such as the rights to vacations and minimal wage) being extremely similar to Mussonili's own \"Worker's Rights\". Criticism on whether the government was fascist or not derives from the fact that Vargas followed the Castilhismo ideology, which is strongly Positivist, incompatible with Fascism's metaphysical, traditionalist, almost occultist ideas.\n\nIn Chile, during the 1930s, there was a fascist-nazi party named National Socialist Movement of Chile (MNS), ruled by Jorge González von Marées, an Adolf Hitler sympathizer. However, the MNS was dissolved in 1938.\n\nIn the 1930s, an elitist group around Chiang Kai-shek looked to fascism as a \"quick\" solution to the modernization of China. The Blue Shirts Society (藍衣社 in Chinese, hereinafter referred to as the BSS), was a secret clique in the Kuomintang (KMT, or the Chinese Nationalist Party). Under the direction of Chiang Kai-shek it sought to lead the KMT and China by following the ideology of Fascism and was a secret police or para-military force.\n\nChiang Kai-shek was confident in his goal to modernize China through an essentially Western method (fascism) and his ability to use it as an instrument while molding it into a Confucianist philosophy. His ideas were given shape by the Blueshirts – in effect an elitist organization within the Kuomintang government structure. This organization practiced the ancient Chinese theory of \"knowledge and action\" in order to inspire the Chinese people.\n\nLikewise, the more left-wing though politically syncretic faction of the Kuomintang led by Wang Jingwei, which split from the mainline right-wing faction of the Kuomintang led by Chiang Kai-shek, gradually embraced and espoused increasingly fascist oriented positions, including anti-communist doctrine. This eventually led to their recognition by members of the Axis Powers, including Germany and Italy, when Wang Jingwei's faction of the Kuomintang gained prominence and assumed control of a puppet regime based in Nanjing established in 1941 by forces of the invading Japanese military.\n\n\"Poglavnik\" Ante Pavelić, leader of the infamous Ustaše movement, came to power in 1941 as the Croatian puppet leader under the control of Nazi Germany. Under the indirect control of Germany, the Ustaše regime was based heavily upon both upon clerical fascism and the Italian model of fascism, with elements of racial integrity and organic nationalism drawn from Nazism.\n\nThe Lapua Movement, established in 1929, originally a nationalist movement that opposed Sweden and Russia, turned into a fascist movement in the early 1930s. However, the party's origins could date back to the early 1920s, in anti-communist forces during the Finnish Civil War. They attempted a coup d'état in 1932, after which the movement was banned. The Lapua Movement, however, affected the selection of Pehr Evind Svinhufvud as the president and the passing of extensive anti-communist laws. Finland stayed a democracy throughout World War II, despite co-operating with Nazi Germany.\n\nThe Vichy regime of Philippe Pétain, established following France's defeat by Germany, collaborated with the Nazis. However, the minimal importance of fascists in the government until its direct occupation by Germany makes it appear to seem more similar to the regime of Franco or Salazar than the model fascist powers. While it has been argued that anti-Semitic raids performed by the Vichy regime were more in the interests of pleasing Germany than in service of ideology, anti-semitism was a full component of the \"National Revolution\" ideology of Vichy.\n\nAs early as October 1940 the Vichy regime introduced the infamous \"statut des Juifs\", that produced a new legal definition of Jewishness and which barred Jews from certain public offices. They interned Liberals, Communists, Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals, in concentration camps as soon as 1940.\n\nAlso, in May 1941 the Parisian police force had collaborated in the internment of foreign Jews. As a means of identifying Jews, the German authorities required all Jews in the occupied zone to wear a yellow badge. On the 11 June, they demanded that 100,000 Jews be handed over for deportation.\n\nThe most infamous of these mass arrests was the so-called Vel' d'Hiv Roundup (\"Rafle du Vel' d'Hiv\") which took place in Paris on the 16 and 17 July 1942. The Vélodrome d'Hiver was a large cycle track situated on the rue Nélaton near the Quai de Grenelle in the 15th arrondissement of Paris. In a vast operation codenamed \"Spring Breeze\" (\"Vent printanier\"), the French police rounded up 13,152 Jews from Paris and its surrounding suburbs. These were mostly adult men and women however approximately 4,000 children were among them. Identifications for the arrests were made easier by the large number of files on Jews complied and held by Vichy authorities since 1940. The French police, headed by René Bousquet, were entirely responsible for this operation and no German soldiers assisted. Pierre Laval, head of Vichy, included the children in the deportations to Auschwitz against general German orders. Most of the deportees sealed in the transports died en route due to lack of food or water. The few survivors were sent to the gas chambers. A few months later, a police operation took place in Marseille, known as the Battle of Marseille, and led to massive raids in the so-called \"free zone\", administrated by Vichy.\n\nIoannis Metaxas' 1936 to 1941 dictatorship was partly fascist in its ideological nature, and might hence be characterized as quasi-fascist or authoritarian. It had a National Youth Organisation based on the Hitlerjugend, developed an armamentistic-centered economy, established a police-state akin to that of Nazi Germany (Greece received tactical and material support from Himmler, who exchanged correspondence with the Greek Minister of State Security Konstantinos Maniadakis) and brutality against communists in big cities such as Athens(communism was not known at small towns and villages of Greece yet). The Colonel George Papadopoulos' 1967 to 1974 military dictatorship, which was supported by the United States, however, was less ideological and lacked a clear fascist element other than militarism.\n\nBy 1932, support for right-wing ideology, embodied by Prime Minister Gyula Gömbös, had reached the point where Hungarian Regent Miklós Horthy could not postpone appointing a fascist prime minister. Horthy also showed signs of admiring the efficiency and conservative leanings of the Italian fascist state under Mussolini and was not too reluctant to appoint a fascist government (with terms for the extent of Horthy's power). Horthy would keep control over the mainstream fascist movement in Hungary until near the end of the Second World War. However, Gömbös never had a truly powerful fascist base of support. Instead, the radical Arrow Cross Party, which gained support in Budapest as well as the countryside, became a powerful political movement, gaining nearly 800,000 votes in the election of 1939. Horthy became paranoid due to his new rival, and imprisoned the Arrow Cross Party's leader, Ferenc Szálasi. However, this action only increased popular support for the fascist movement. In another attempt to challenge the Arrow Cross, Horthy's government began to imitate the Arrow Cross Party's ideology. Starting in 1938, several racial laws, mostly against Jews, were passed by the regime, but the extremist Arrow Cross Party, led by Ferenc Szálasi, was banned until German pressure lifted the law, and until Germany occupied Hungary during Operation Margarethe on March 19, 1944, no Jews were in direct danger of being annihilated. In July 1944, armor-colonel Ferenc Koszorús and the First Armour Division, under Horthy's orders, resisted the Arrow Cross militia and prevented the deportation of the Jews of Budapest, thus saved over 200,000 lives. This act impressed upon the German occupying forces, including Adolf Eichmann, that as long as Hungary continued to be governed by Horthy, no real \"Endlösung\" could begin. Following Horthy's attempt to have Hungary change sides on October 13, Szálasi, with German military support, launched Operation Panzerfaust and replaced Admiral Horthy as Head of State. The regime changed to a system more in line with Nazism and would remain this way until the capture of Budapest by Soviet troops. Over 400,000 Jews were sent by Hungary to German death camps from 1944 to 1945.\n\nVidkun Quisling had staged a \"coup d'état\" during the German invasion on April 9, 1940. This first government was replaced by a Nazi puppet government under his leadership from February 1, 1943. His party never had any substantial support in Norway, undermining his attempts to emulate the Italian fascist state.\n\nThe Estado Novo regime of António de Oliveira Salazar borrowed many of the ideas towards military and governance from Mussolini's Fascist regime and adapted to the Spanish example of paternal iconography for authoritarianism. Even though the regime was supportive of Mussolini and Hitler's efforts, it kept on the political sidelines throughout the war and instead offered only aid and business with both Italy and Germany during this period.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the rise of fascist-inspired organizations occurred in Poland. Fascist organizations like the Association of Polish Fascists (Związek Faszystów Polskich) were however marginal and ephemeral. Fascist-inspired organizations were however stronger than parties with clearly fascist programs. National Radical Camp Falanga was the most prominent of them. It was created by radical youth members with National Democratic origins. Falanga was nonetheless quickly banned by the authoritarian ruling Sanacja regime and continued to operate clandestinely. It was also involved in frequent street violence and anti-Semitic riots.\n\nThe Iron Guard turned more and more into a pro-Nazi and pro-German movement and took power in September 1940 when Ion Antonescu forced King Carol II to abdicate. However, the cohabitation between the Iron Guard and Ion Antonescu was short-lived.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the group combined a mix of Christian faith, antisemitism, and calls for land reform for farmers, who still lived in a quasi-feudal society. However, the extremely violent nature of the movement made it difficult for the Iron Guard to attract conservatives and middle class people, and as a result, the movement could never be as successful as the Nazi Party.\n\nThe Antonescu regime that followed had elements of fascism, but it lacked a clear political program or party. It was more a military dictatorship. The regime was characterized by nationalism, antisemitism, and anti-communism, but had no social program. Despite the Iaşi pogrom and a near-liquidation of the Jews of many parts of Moldavia, the regime ultimately refused to send the Romanian Jews to German death camps. The regime was overthrown on 23 August 1944 in a coup led by the king Mihai of Romania.\n\nThe Slovak People's Party was a quasi-fascist nationalist movement. It was associated with the Roman Catholic Church and founded by Father Andrej Hlinka. His successor Monsignor Jozef Tiso was a president of nominally independent Slovakia in 1939–1945. His government colleagues like Vojtech Tuka or Alexander Mach collaborate with fascism. The clerical element lends comparison with Austrofascism or the clerical fascism of Croatia, though not to the excesses of either model. The market system was run on principles agreeing with the standard Italian fascist model of industrial regulation.\n\nAfter the 1936 arrest and execution of its founder, José Antonio Primo de Rivera, during the Spanish Civil War, the fascist Falange Española Party was allied to and ultimately came to be dominated by Generalísimo Francisco Franco, who became known as \"El Caudillo\", the undisputed leader of the Nationalist side in the war and, after victory, head of state until his death over 35 years later. However, it was best described as an autocracy based on the Falangist fascist principles in its early years. By the mid-1950s, the Spanish Miracle and the rise of Opus Dei in the Franco regime led to Falangist fascism being discarded and fascists minimized in importance.\n\nThere have been three waves of fascism in South Africa. Beginning with D F Malan's support of Hitler's brown shirts and the activities of Robey Leibbrandt in the 1930s and 1940s, the second wave during the 1970s and 1980s which created fringe right-wing groups such as the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging.\n\nYugoslav Radical Union was a Yugoslav fascist group run by Milan Stojadinović. Party members wore green shirt uniforms, addressed Stojadinović as \"Vodja\" and used the Roman salute. The party was dissolved following the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia\n\nPrior to World War II, fascist or quasi-fascist movements also appeared in democratic nations, often taking their inspiration from the regimes established by Mussolini and Hitler.\n\nThe New Guard attempted to violently remove New South Wales Premier Jack Lang from office.\n\nIn the 1930s, Canada had fascist fringe groups within it. One stronger group was the \"Parti national social chrétien\" of Adrien Arcand which had significant support. Arcand believed in the anti-Semitic policies of Hitler and called himself the \"Canadian Führer\". In 1934, his Quebec-based party merged with the western-based fascist Nationalist Party of Canada. In 1938, the English Canadian and French Canadian fascist movements united into the National Unity Party. The only fascist politician ever to be elected in Canada was a man by the name of P. M. Campbell who ran and won under the fascist Unity Party of Alberta for Lethbridge in a 1937 Alberta Provincial By-Election. In 1940, all fascist parties were banned under Canada's War Measures Act.\n\nThe Rexist movement and the Vlaamsch Nationaal Verbond party achieved some electoral success in the 1930s. The party could be label as clerical fascist with its roots in Catholic Conservatism. The party gained rapid support for a brief period, focusing on the secularism, corruption, and ineffectiveness on parliamentary democracy in Belgium. Many of its members assisted the Nazi occupation during World War II. The Verdinaso movement, too, can be considered fascist. Its leader, Joris Van Severen, was killed before the Nazi occupation. Some of its adepts collaborated, but others joined the resistance. These collaborationist movements are generally classified as belonging to the National Socialist model or the German fascist model because of its brand of racial nationalism and the close relation with the occupational authorities.\n\nFascist sympathizers led by General Eoin O'Duffy established the Army Comrades Association, or \"Blueshirts\" in 1932 as a veterans organization. Renamed the National Guard, it eventually became the paramilitary wing of the United Ireland Party. The Blueshirts wanted to establish a corporate state in Ireland and frequently clashed with Republican supporters of the ruling Fianna Fáil, who were using force to disrupt that party's meetings. O’Duffy planned a parade in Dublin in 1933, and the government, fearing a coup, banned the organization. The organization began to decline soon after. Blueshirts under O’Duffy's leadership later fought for Franco during the Nationalist uprising in Spain.\n\nA reactionary nationalist movement called Acción Revolucionaria Mexicana (Mexican Revolutionary Action), founded by former Villista general Nicolas Rodriguez Carrasco, agitated for right-wing causes, such as the deportation of Jews and Chinese-Mexicans, throughout the 1930s. ARM maintained a paramilitary force called the Goldshirts, which clashed frequently with Communist activists, and supported the presidential faction of Plutarco Calles against the liberal reformist president Lázaro Cárdenas. The paramilitary group was banned in 1936 and the ARM officially disbanded in 1942, when Mexico declared war against the Axis.\n\nThe \"Verbond van Actualisten\" (Union of Actualists) was the oldest fascist movement in the Netherlands. It was established on 22 January 1923 and its ideology was based on Mussolini's Italian fascist movement. It ceased all activities in November 1928 after having had no success at all. It was succeeded by the \"Vereeniging De Bezem\" (Association 'The Broom') which was founded on 15 December 1928 by some men who previously were active in the \"Verbond van Actualisten\". Its aim was to clean Dutch politics – hence the name. Its downfall in 1932 was caused by continuous discord between its leaders. On 14 December 1931 Anton Mussert and Cornelis van Geelkerken founded the \"Nationaal-Socialistische Beweging in Nederland\" (NSB), the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands. It started as a fascist movement, Italian style, but at the same time its ideology was based on Hitlers NSDAP. In the years 1935–1936 the party embraced antisemitism. Its best pre-war election result was 7,9% of the voters (1935). The maximum number of member of the NSB was 100,000 (around 1,25% of the Dutch population). Soon after the German occupation in May 1940 the NSB became the only allowed political party. Never once during the years of WW II the NSB was giving any real power, instead, the Germans used the NSB for their own purposes. After the German defeat, the NSB disappeared. On 29 June 1932 Jan Baars (previously active in the \"Vereeniging 'De Bezem\"') founded the \"Algemeene Nederlandsche Fascisten Bond\" (General Dutch Fascist Federation). It was the first Dutch fascist political party to gain significant election results and it had a considerable number of members. Its political views were quite moderate and it disapproved German Nazi racism and antisemitism. It ended its existence in 1934. Its main successful successor was \"Zwart Front\" (Black Front), 1934–1941. Its leaders were of a Catholic origin and the party was strongly based on Italian fascism. During the pre-war period, it never established a prominent position like Mussert's NSB. After the German invasion in May 1940, the number of members rose from 4,000 to 12,000. The Germans prohibited \"Zwart Front\" in December 1941.\n\nOther, smaller, fascist and Nazi parties were: \"Verbond van Nationalisten\" (Union of Nationalists, 1928–1934), the \"Nationaal-Socialistische Nederlandsche Arbeiders Partij\" (National Socialist Dutch Workers Party, 1931–1941), \"Nationaal-Socialistische Partij\" (National Socialist Party, 1932–1941), \"Nederlandsche Fascisten Unie\" (Dutch Fascist Union, 1933), \"Unie van Nederlandsche Fascisten\" (Union of Dutch Fascists, 1933), \"Oranje-Fascisten\" (Orange Fascists, 1933), \"Frysk Fascisten Front\" (Frisian Fascist Front, 1933), \"Corporatieve Concentratie\" (Corporative Concentration, 1933–1934), \"Verbond voor Nationaal Herstel\" (Union for National Restoration, 1933–1941), \"Nederlandsche Nationaal-Socialistische Partij\" (Dutch National Socialist Party, 1935) and the \"Nederlandsche Volkspartij\" (Dutch People's Party, 1938–1940).\n\nDutch fascism and Nazism is known for its lack of coherence and it was dominated by the egos of its leaders. An important fact for its marginal position in pre-war Dutch politics was the absence of a 'lost generation' of combatants of WW I.\n\nIn Lebanon, the Kataeb Party (Phalange) was formed in 1936, with inspiration of the Spanish Falange and Italian Fascism. The founder of the party, Pierre Gemayel, founded the party after returning from a visit at the 1936 Summer Olympics. The party is still active today, although it has abandoned the Falangist and Fascist ideology in place of Phoenicianism, social Conservatism, Republicanism, and anti-Islam.\n\nThe \"Sveriges Fascistiska Folkparti\" (\"SFF\"; \"Fascist People's Party of Sweden\") was founded in 1926. Major figures of the party included its founding leader, Konrad Hallgren, a former German officer, and Swedish soldiers Sven Olov Lindholm and Sven Hedengren.\n\nIn 1929 a delegation of the party, led by Hallgren and Lindholm, attended a major rally of the German Nazi party, at Nuremberg. Afterwards, the \"SFF\" was more strongly influenced by Nazism and changed its name to \"Sveriges Nationalsocialistiska Folkparti\" (\"SNF\"; Swedish National Socialist People's Party). The \"SNF\" was one of several Swedish Nazi parties.\n\nSir Oswald Mosley, an admirer of Mussolini, established the British Union of Fascists in 1932 as a nationalist alternative to the three mainstream political parties in Britain. Though the BUF achieved only limited success in some local elections, their existence caused frequent riots, usually instigated by Communist movements. Alarmed at the violence caused by the BUF, the government passed the Public Order Act in 1936 to restrict its activity. During the latter years of the decade, the party experienced a revival in popularity on the back of its anti-war campaign. The BUF was banned in 1940 and Mosley was interned for the duration of the war. The relative stability of democratic institutions, the long-time assimilation of Jews, and the lack of a strong, threatening Communist movement, had made it difficult for fascism to succeed in Britain.\n\nThe Silver Legion of America (1933-1941), claiming around 15,000 members, managed to run a candidate for President on a third-party ticket, but was outlawed after Nazi Germany's declaration of war on the United States in late 1941.\n\nDespite the arousal of fascist movements across Europe and the world, many were different in their nature in ideology. Some like the Iron Guard and Arrow Cross Party had strong support among the proletariat, unlike Nazism and Italian Fascism, which relied more on the support of the middle class. Meanwhile, some regimes, especially those appointed by Hitler like Vichy France, was made up of the conservative and aristocratic elite. Others also had different degrees of Catholic elements. Some groups, like the ones in Croatia, Austria, Belgium, and Slovakia, had its roots in reactionary and populist Catholicism. The Iron Guard also had strong religious influences and was defined, by its leaders, as more of a religious order than a political party. Fascist leaders like Francisco Franco and Vidkun Quisling tried to stage direct military coups, while other fascist groups formed political parties and tried to take power through the existing democratic process, such as Oswald Mosley's British Union of Fascists.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7119282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7119282", "title": "Malaysian Wildlife Law", "text": "Malaysian Wildlife Law\n\nMalaysian Wildlife Law () consists of the regulation, protection, conservation and management of wildlife in Malaysia. The Constitution of Malaysia empowers those at the federal and the states level to make laws regarding wildlife resources. As such, eleven states in peninsular are managed under an act while Sabah enacted an enactment and Sarawak an ordinance.\n\nA Wildlife Commission of Malaya was established by the British colonists in 1932 to make full inquiry into existing regulations for protection of wildlife; ways to deal with wildlife damage to agriculture; and the organisation needed to administer the preservation of wildlife. Some of the major recommendations of the report were:\n\n\nThe report provided the framework for the consolidation of the state game offices and establishment of the Wildlife Ordinance 1955 in Malayan States. Later, the 1955 Ordinance was repealed with the enactment of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 by the Malaysia Parliament. The 1972 Act enable for the federalisation of all state wildlife departments and appointment of the Director-General of Department of Wildlife and National Parks (DWNP).\n\nThere are various other laws that mentioned on the wildlife or habitat conservation issues in Malaysia.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5285600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5285600", "title": "Maplin (retailer)", "text": "Maplin (retailer)\n\nMaplin Electronics, trading as Maplin, was a retailer of electronic goods in the United Kingdom and Ireland. In June 2017, there were 217 Maplin stores. The company also operated an extensive online, telephone and mail order service.\n\nOn 28 February 2018, Maplin went into administration, placing 2,500 jobs at risk, and on 25 June 2018 all Maplin stores ceased trading.\n\nIn August 2018, Peter Jones purchased the Maplin name and is making a Maplin themed website to open soon as an online only shop.\n\nMaplin Electronic Supplies was established in 1972 as a mail order business by Roger and Sandra Allen and Doug Simmons. The company started in a bedroom at the Allens' home in Rayleigh, Essex, after the two electronics enthusiasts were disappointed by the complexity and poor availability of existing electronic component suppliers.\n\nThe trio placed an advertisement in an electronics magazine, after printing the company's first 28-page catalogue, which would be offered free to callers. Despite a slow start and dwindling profit in the first year, the company began to gain a reputation for first grade electronic components delivered exactly as shown in the catalogue by first-class post.\n\nThe first store opened in Westcliff-on-Sea and the mail order department moved into the rooms above the shop. Sales received a boost when Maplin was invited to take prime advertising space in IPC Electronics magazines after the latter received complaints against some of their existing advertisers.\n\nA second store opened in Hammersmith by the end of the year. The mail order side of the business had outgrown the space available above the Westcliff-on-Sea store and an ex-dairy building in Hadleigh was purchased and established as Maplin's first warehouse.\n\nMaplin had already started designing electronic kits for hobbyists and musicians, with several synthesiser and organ projects being published in the first magazine, \"Electronics & Music Maker\", and subsequently made available as kits. After the second store opened \"Electronics – the Maplin Magazine\" was launched and initially published every quarter, then monthly as more projects were designed.\nThe concurrent boom in home computer ownership in the early 1980s spawned by manufacturers such as Sinclair, Commodore International and Atari created opportunities for Maplin. They produced home build project kits such as speech synthesisers, memory expansion cards, extension keyboards, cables, and connectors to plug into these computers.\n\nAt the height of production of the home build kits Maplin's range was vast, with in-house designed power amplifiers, radio kits, a weather station and a full weather satellite receiving and display system and many others, as well as the Heathkit and Velleman ranges of kits. The catalogue, with its distinctive science fiction cover art by Lionel Jeans, contained hundreds of application circuits and hundreds of thousands of copies were distributed each year.\n\nIn 1985, Maplin Professional Supplies was created to serve the expanding business market with a catalogue of products selected specifically for professionals and the business market. In 1989, a new National Distribution Centre was opened at Wombwell, South Yorkshire, and four years later a Far Eastern headquarters was established in Taiwan.\n\nBy 1994, Maplin had a turnover of more than £29 million a year, and it was clear more help was needed to organise the business. In December 1994, Maplin was acquired by Saltire PLC.\n\nIn 1999, Maplin launched its own website, and the following year sales from the site hit UK £1million. The Southend-on-Sea headquarters also closed in 2000, and all operations were moved to Wombwell. In June 2001, the company changed hands again, this time with a management buyout backed by Graphite Capital.\n\nMaplin Far East Operations was first established in 1992 when Maplin Electronics set up its first Far Eastern branch office in Taipei, Taiwan to strengthen buying power.\n\nThe office was in charge of product sourcing, purchasing, inspecting, shipping and payment arrangement from Taiwan and was known as the Far East Operations Centre. The Hong Kong Office followed in 1995 to handle the sourcing, purchasing and shipping from Hong Kong.\n\nAs most production in Taiwan and Hong Kong had moved to mainland China, the company registered a representative office in Shenzhen under the Hong Kong Office in 2004. The three offices in the Far East handled more than 500 suppliers and 5,000 buying items for the parent company.\n\nThe major product categories included cables, power supplies, electronics components, kits and tools, communication equipment, computers, toys, automotive electronics, and consumer electronics.\n\nIn December 1994, the private equity firm Saltire plc acquired Maplin Electronics from its founders, with the intention of merging its operations with another electronics distribution business in its portfolio, Altai.\n\nIn June 2001, Graphite Capital led the £41 million management buy-out of Maplin.\n\nIn September 2004, Montagu Private Equity purchased 67% of Maplin from Graphite Capital at a cost of £244 million. In 2007, the company began to relocate its headquarters and distribution centre to a new facility at Brookfields Park, on the former Manvers Main Colliery, Rotherham, just two miles from the old warehouse in Wombwell. Maplin discontinued the processing of orders outside of the United Kingdom and Ireland in January 2010.\n\nLater in 2010, Montagu said they were evaluating their options with Maplin, because the value of their investment has been realised. It was envisaged that when the market conditions were right, Maplin would float on the London Stock Exchange.\n\nAt the end of 2012, Maplin announced it was officially out of debt from their creditor Montague Equity.\n\nIn June 2013, Maplin introduced drop ship vending, allowing them to offer a far greater range of stock for sale online than available in-store.\n\nIn March 2014, Montagu Private Equity put Maplin up for sale with an expected return of between £100 million and £200 million. On 27 June 2014, Rutland Partners announced they were acquiring Maplin from Montagu for £85 million. Rutland typically focuses on restructuring opportunities, \"special situation\" investments. £5m of the capital was provided by Beringea from funds provided by Proven and Proven Growth and Income VCTs.\n\nIn September 2015, Oliver Meakin was appointed as CEO, setting new strategy for the business of leveraging the growth in home automation and App based technology. In January 2018, Graham Harris was appointed new CEO replacing Oliver Meakin. It was reported in February 2018 that the company was seeking a buyer, and attempted to enter into a \"pre pack\" administration deal as part of a sale.\n\nChief Executive Officer John Cleland took post of Maplin on 1 March 2013. Following this, he set out plans for the Horizon 2015 project, aiming to recover the historic decline in the business by 2015.\n\nThe Horizon 2015 project established some medium term goals, such as a complete overhaul of the existing stores, widening the product range, and establishing a clear message to the consumer. Its success in stopping the decline and stabilising profitability helps secure its acquisition by Rutland Partners in June 2014, investing in the next stage of the plan to 2020.\n\nMaplin introduced three service guarantees in an attempt to improve its customer service interface:-\n\nIn the company's effort to remain part of the retail industry, it had invested £40 million to overhaul its e-commerce platforms on its website and through smart phone apps, and to reach a medium term goal of 300 retail stores throughout the United Kingdom and Ireland before expanding abroad in 2015. The company was also looking to find vacant store outlets in key cities in which to expand.\n\nIn 2013, Maplin planned to open travel stores in airports and railway stations, where it would offer a tailored product selection, such as travel adaptors, batteries, and laptop chargers.\n\nMaplin sold a large selection of electrical and electronic equipment such as audio/visual devices, components, computer devices and peripherals, cables, television and satellite equipment, everyday electrical items such as batteries and light bulbs, power adaptors and solar energy panels. The company also sold MP3 players, portable televisions and satellite navigation equipment.\n\nThe target market ranged from the general consumer to the more technical electronics hobbyist.\n\nIn November 2012, former Maplin CEO John Cleland stated, \"We want to double the range of products we sell online from 15,000 to 30,000 stock keeping units (SKU) in the next three years, in some cases we will work on fulfilling orders by delivering straight from the manufacturer to the customer\".\n\nIn November 2017, under the leadership of the new CEO Oliver Meakin, (appointed in September 2016) Maplin partnered with high street tech repair company, iSmash, to add smartphone repair centres to three stores.\n\nMaplin announced on 28 February 2018 it had entered administration after failing to find a buyer for the business.\n\nPricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) were assigned to handle the affairs of Maplin Electronics effective from 28 February. On 10 March 2018 a video announcement was made to staff members via the internal social media platform \"Fuse\", informing them that PwC had failed to locate a buyer for some or all of the business and would begin the store closure programme, which was expected to take around 3 months to conclude.\n\nOn 10 March 2018, PwC brought in Insolvency and Closure Firm Hilco to manage the day to day affairs of the business, and to close the distribution centre, and both head offices at Brookfields, Rotherham and Churchill House, East London as well as making all staff redundant, some with as little as one day's notice.\n\nOn 30 April 2018, Maplin closed their website. On 12 May 2018 operations in the distribution centre at Brookfields were shut down after pushing all remaining stock reserves out to stores. By 25 June 2018, all official Maplin stores across the United Kingdom had closed their doors with the Maplin company ceasing to exist.\n\nIn September 2018, UK technology news site The Register reported that Peter Jones has brought the Maplin name and related IPs. The Maplin site has been since brought online and as of September 2018 is waiting for the official relaunch.\n"}
{"id": "22418058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22418058", "title": "Martial law in Taiwan", "text": "Martial law in Taiwan\n\nOn 19 May 1949, the Governor of Taiwan Province, Chen Cheng, and the Ministry of National Defense of the Republic of China (ROC) promulgated the \"Order of Martial Law\" to announce the imposition of Taiwan martial law (). Until the order was lifted by the President Chiang Ching-kuo on 15 July 1987, Taiwan had been under martial law for more than 38 years, which was qualified as \"the longest imposition of martial law by a regime anywhere in the world\" at that time.\n\nThe history of martial law of the ROC could be dated back to the final year of the Qing dynasty. The outline of a 1908 draft constitution—modeled on Japan's Meiji Constitution—included provisions for martial law. The ROC government promulgated the Provisional Constitution in March 1911, which authorized the president to declare martial law in times of emergency. Then, a series of regulations related to martial law were issued by ROC in mainland China later in 1920s to 1940s. However, the factual legal basis for the martial law in effect between 1948 and 1987 promulgated by ROC was the \"Temporary Provisions Effective During the Period of Communist Rebellion\" adopted by the ROC National assembly in April 1948. In December 1948, in the face of the mounting nationalists' defeats, Chiang Kai-shek announced the imposition of martial law throughout the country. However, remote areas such as Xinjiang, Tibet, Qinghai, as well as Taiwan Province are not within the scope of the influence. On 20 May 1949, Taiwan Province was officially included under the influence of the martial law.\n\nAfter the surrender of Japan in 1945, the ROC obtained control of Taiwan. In December 1949, the ROC government, led by President Chiang Kai-shek, retreated from Nanjing to Taipei, Taiwan's largest city. The ROC continued to claim sovereignty over all \"China\", which the ROC defines to include mainland China, Taiwan, Outer Mongolia and other areas while the Communist People's Republic of China claimed to be the only China and that the ROC no longer existed. Thus, the two regimes entered a new era of confrontation and the martial law became one of the most important laws to \"suppress Communist and Taiwan Independent activities in Taiwan\", issuing the emergency declaration.\n\nAlso in the year 1949, a series of relevant regulations were promulgated by ROC government, including the \"Regulations to prevent unlawful assembly, association, procession, petition, strike under martial law\", the \"Measures to regulate newspapers, magazines and book publication under the martial law\" and the \"Regulations for the punishment of rebellions\".\n\nUnder the martial law, the formation of new political parties was prohibited except the Kuomintang (KMT), the Chinese Youth Party and the China Democratic Socialist Party. In order to implement the strict political censorship, the \"lianzuo\" or collective responsibility system was adopted among the civil servants from 9 July 1949 and soon spread to all the enterprises and institutions, according to which no one would be employed without a guarantor.\n\nThe government was authorized by the martial law to deny the right of assembly, free speech and publication in Taiwanese Hokkien. Newspapers were asked to run propaganda articles or make last-minute editorial changes to suit the government's needs. At the beginning of the martial law era, \"newspapers could not exceed six pages. The number was increased to eight pages in 1958, 10 in 1967 and 12 in 1974. There were only 31 newspapers, 15 of which were owned by either the KMT, the government or the military.\"\n\nTaiwan Garrison Command had sweeping powers, including the right to arrest anyone voicing criticism of government policy and to screen publications prior to distribution. According to a recent report by the Executive Yuan of Taiwan, around 140,000 Taiwanese were arrested, tortured, imprisoned or executed for their real or perceived opposition to the KMT and 3000–4000 people were executed during the martial law period. Since these people were mainly from the intellectual and social elite an entire generation of political and social leaders was decimated. It was not until 2008 that a public apology was made for those actions. No form of restitution or compensation has ever been made (as of 2010).\n\nEnforcement was relaxed after Chiang Kai-shek's death in 1975. The lifting of martial law was proclaimed by President Chiang Ching-kuo on 14 July 1987 followed by the liberalization and democratization of Taiwan. Before that, the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) was illegally established in September 1986 and won 21.6 percent of the vote in December legislative elections that year.\n\nLifting of martial law permitted opposition political parties to be formed legally for the first time, giving Taiwan's fragmented but increasingly vocal opposition a new chance to organize. But even after the law was lifted, tight restrictions on freedom of assembly, speech and the press remained in place, having been written into a National Security Law, which had been passed a few days before the lifting of martial law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7872824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7872824", "title": "Military career of Ali", "text": "Military career of Ali\n\nAli bin Abi Talib took part in all the battles of Prophet Muhammad's time, except the Battle of Tabuk, as standard bearer. He also led parties of warriors on raids into enemy lands, and was an ambassador. Ali's fame grew with every battle that he was in, due to his courage, valour, and chivalry, as well as the fact that he single-handedly, destroyed many of Arabia's most famous and feared warriors. Muhammad acknowledged him as the greatest warrior of all time.\n\nMuhammad did not know that an army had left Mecca, was marching toward Medina to protect the caravan of the Quraysh, and to challenge the Muslims. When Muhammad arrived in the environs of Badr, he sent Ali to reconnoiter the surrounding country. At the wells of Badr, Ali surprised some water-carriers. In reply to his questions, they told him that they were carrying water for an army which came from Makkah, and which was encamped on the other side of the nearby hills.\n\nAli brought the water-carriers before Muhammad. From them he learned that the caravan of the Quraysh had already escaped, and that the Muslims, at that very moment, were confronted by the army of Mecca.\n\nOn reaching the neighbourhood of Badr, Muhammad sent forward Ali, with a few others, to reconnoiter the rising ground above the springs. There they surprised three water-carriers of the enemy, as they were about to fill their sheepskins. One escaped to the Quraysh; the other two were captured and taken to the Muslim army. From them Muhammad discovered the proximity of his enemy. There were 950 men; more than threefold the number of the Moslem army. They were mounted on 700 camels and 100 horses, the horsemen all clad in mail. (Sir William Muir, \"The Life of Mohammed, London, 1877\")\n\nAli, along with his uncle Hamza ibn Abd al-Muttalib and cousin Ubaydah ibn al-Harith, proceeded to single duels. Ali's duel was against Walid ibn Utba, one of Mecca's fiercest warriors.\n\nThe youngest pair engaged first, Ali stepping forward to meet Walid. After a few moments of fencing, Waleed fell by the sword of his Muslim opponent. Then Hamza engaged Shaybah ibn Rab'iah and cut him down. Ubayda ibn Harith, the third Muslim champion, received a fatal wound from Utbah ibn Rab'iah. Ali and Hamza hastily dispatched Ut'bah ibn Rab'iah, carrying Ubaida to die in the Muslim lines.\n\nBy noon the battle was over. The Quraysh fled. Forty-nine of the enemy had fallen and Ali had killed twenty-two, either alone or with the help of others. An equal number was captured. The believers had lost fourteen men on the field of battle.\n\nAli first distinguished himself as a warrior in 624, at the Battle of Badr. He defeated the Umayyad champion Walid ibn Utba as well as many other Meccan soldiers. His art of battle was so brilliant that in the battle, there were 70 Polytheist (Mushrikeen), 35 of them (almost half of them) were killed by Ali.\n\nHe also said that:\n\nHalf of them were killed by me, and the other half were killed by the other companions of Prophet Muhammad with the help of angels who descended on Earth.\n\nOne year after the battle of Badr, the new army of the idolaters of Mecca was ready to take the field against the Muslims. In March 625 AD, Abu Sufyan left Mecca at the head of three thousand seasoned warriors. Most of them were foot soldiers but they were supported by a strong contingent of cavalry. Also accompanying the army, was a band of warlike women. Their duty was to wage \"psychological warfare\" against the Muslims by reading poetry and by singing amatory songs to spur the courage and the will-to-fight of the soldiers. They knew that nothing held such terror for the Arabs as the jibes of women for cowardice, and they also knew that nothing was so efficacious to turn them into utterly reckless fighters as the promise of physical love. These amazons included the wives of Abu Sufyan and Amr bin Aas, and the sister of Khalid bin Walid.\n\nThe Meccans, generously assisted by the women who had brought their timbrels, flung insults at the Muslims. These were alternated by Hind, the wife of Abu Sufyan, who led triumphant choruses as she danced round the idol which perched on the camel.\n\nTalha, the hereditary standard-bearer of the Koreishites, was the first Meccan challenger. As he stepped out of Abu Sufyan's ranks, Ali stepped out of Muhammad's. The two men met in the middle of 'no man's land.' Without words or preliminary flourishes the duel began. Talha never stood a chance. Ali's scimitar flashed in the morning sun and the head of the standard-bearer leaped from his shoulder and rolled away on the sand.\n\n'Allahu Akbar!'(Allah is the greatest) echoed from the eagerly watching Muslims. (R. V. C. Bodley, \"The Messenger, the Life of Mohammed, New York, 1946\") \n\nAli alone had killed eight standard-bearers of the idolaters of Mecca.\n\nIbn Athir, the Arab historian, writes in his \"Tarikh Kamil\" \"\"The man who killed the standard-bearers (of the pagans) was Ali.\"\n\nAli ibn Abu Talib pressed on undismayed into the enemy ranks – it was Badr again; the Muslims were invincible. (\"Sir John Glubb, The Great Arab Conquests, 1963\")\n\nAli and Hamza had broken the ranks of the Quraysh, and he was already deep inside their lines. Unable to resist his attack, they began to yield ground. Between them, they were grinding back the army of Quraysh.\n\nThe death of the bearers of the banner heightened the morale of the Muslims, who pursued the enemy headlong. This however resulted in complacency, with some of the Muslim soldiers beginning to claim war spoils for themselves whilst the battle had not yet been fully won. This allowed the pagans to launch a counter-attack, which dismayed the Muslim army and sent it into headlong retreat. Muhammad remained stranded, with only a few soldiers left to defend him against the attacks of Khalid ibn Waleed. It is recorded that 'Ali alone remained, fending off the assaults of Khaleed's cavalrymen. According to Ibn Atheer, \"The Prophet became the object of the attack of various units of the army of Quraish from all sides. Ali attacked, in compliance with Muhammad's orders, every unit that made an attack upon him and dispersed them or killed some of them, and this thing took place a number of times in Uhud.\"\n\n...when somebody raised the cry that Muhammad was killed, chaos reigned supreme, Muslim morale plunged to the bottom and Muslimzsoldiers fought sporadically and purposelessly. This chaos was responsible for their killing of Husayl ibn Jabir Abu Hudhayfah by mistake, as everyone sought to save his own skin by taking flight except such men as Ali ibn Abu Talib whom God had guided and protected. (Muhammad Husayn Haykal, \"The Life of Muhammad, 1935, Cairo\")\n\nThe first of the Qurash to reach the Prophet's position was Ikrimah. As Ikrimah led a group of his men forward the Prophet turned to Ali and, pointing at the group, said, \"Attack those men.\" Ali attacked and drove them back, killing one of them. Now another group of horsemen approached the position. Again the Prophet said to Ali, \"Attack those men.\" 1 Ali drove them back and killed another infidel.\nA regiment arrived from Kinanah in which four of the children of Sufyan Ibn Oweif were present. Khalid, Abu AI-Sha-atha, Abu Al-Hamra, and Ghurab. The Messenger of God said to Ali: \"Take care of this regiment.\" Ali charged the regiment, and it was about fifty horsemen. He fought them while he was on foot until he scattered them. They gathered again and he charged them again. This was repeated several times until he killed the four children of Sufyan and added to them six more ... (Ibn Abu Al Hadeed, in his Commentary, vol 1 p 372)\n\nIt was said that during 'Ali's defence of the Prophet, a call was heard, as follows: \"There is no soldier but Ali, and there is no sword save Zhulfiqar.\"\n\nAfter the battle of Uhud, Abu Sufyan and the other pagan leaders realized that they had fought an indecisive action, and that their victory had not borne any fruits for them. Islam had, in fact, resiled from its reverse at Uhud, and within an astonishingly short time, had reestablished its authority in Medina and the surrounding areas. Again Ali proved to be an invincible warrior by killing Amr ibn wod al ameree who was one of the most feared warriors at the time. After Ali dropped Amr ibn wod al ameree off his horse, Amr spat at Ali. Ali got angry, and so he walked away for a moment and then got back after he calmed down, he told Amr ibn wod al ameree \"If i killed you then i would have satisfied myself and not God's will\" and then he killed Amr. The Muslim ranks roared and were happy. The Prophet said \"Ali's strike on the day of the trench, is worth the combined worship of all of mankind and Jinns\" \n\nThe campaign of Khaybar was one of the greatest. The masses of Jews living in Khaybar were the strongest, the richest, and the best equipped for war of all the peoples of Arabia. Even though they were rich and lived in castles Muhammed and Ali still had respect for them in Khaybar Imam Ali suffered from an eye illness and was not in battle-ready condition. Although he was ill, Prophet Muhammed called him and he came to his service. According to Islamic historians, Muhammed cured Ali's illness by rubbing his saliva on Ali's eyes. According to this tradition, Ali killed a Jewish chieftain with a sword-stroke, which split in two the helmet, the head and the body of the victim. Having lost his shield, Ali is said to have lifted both of the doors of the fortress from its hinges, climbed into the moat and held them up to make a bridge whereby the attackers gained access to the redoubt. This story is one basis for the Muslim view, especially in Shi'a Islam, of Ali as the prototype of heroes.\n\nAli also participated in the Expedition of Fidak. Muhammad sent Ali to attack the Bani Sa‘d bin Bakr tribe, because Muhammad received intelligence they were planning to help the Jews of Khaybar\n\nHe also led the Expedition of Ali ibn Abi Talib as a commander in July 630. Muhammad sent him to aestroy al-Qullus, an idol worshipped by pagans\n\nThe Battle of the Camel, sometimes called the Battle of Jamal or the Battle of Bassorah, took place at Basra, Iraq on . A'isha heard about the killing of Uthman (644-656), the third Caliph. At the time she was on a pilgrimage to Mecca. It was on this journey that she became so angered by his unavenged death, and the naming of Ali as the fourth caliph, that she took up arms against those supporting Ali. She gained support of the big city of Basra and, for the first time, Muslims took up arms against each other. This battle is now known as the First Fitna, or Muslim civil war.\n\nThe Battle of Siffin (; May–July 657 CE) occurred during the First Fitna, or first Muslim civil war, with the main engagement taking place from July 26 to July 28. It was fought between Ali ibn Abi Talib and Muawiyah I, on the banks of the Euphrates river, in what is now Raqqa, Syria.\n\nThe two armies encamped themselves at Siffin for more than one hundred days, most of the time being spent in negotiations. Neither side wanted to fight. Then on 11th Safar 37 AH, the Iraqis under Ashtar's command, the Qurra, in Ali's army, who had their own camp started the fighting in earnest which lasted three days. Historian Yaqubi wrote that Ali had 80,000 men, including 70 Companions who participated in the Battle of Badr, 70 Companions who took oath at Hudaibia, and 400 prominent Ansars and Muhajirun; while Muawiya had 120,000 Syrians. \nThe battle of siffin was one of the bloodiest battles in the Islamic history, all of the bravest warriors of Arabia participated in the battle both from Iraq and Syria. the fighting usually began in the morning and continued till evening. at first Ali didn't want a general war because he had all the hope of convincing Muawiya to put down his rebellion. The first 3 month's both camps where in full negotiations with each other, the fighting was very limited and each day a commander of Ali's army came out with a battalion and from the other side there was the same respond. After 3 months of negotiations Ali realised that its all in vain and prepared for a general war. the night before the battle the soldiers spent their night sharpening their swords, spears and arrows. By this announcement Muawiya became worried because he knew the bravery of Ali and his swordsmanship skills. Muawiya also did the same and prepared his troops for a bloody battle. Early in the morning Ali set his troops in formation, he gave the command of the left flank to his best general Malik al-ashtar who was renown for his bravery and fighting skills, over the right flank he gave the command to a courageous soldier named Abdullah ibn Abbas, Ali himself took position in the centre of the army. By the time both armies stood in front of each other, Ali gave the order for a full attack, the fight was so fierce that even the bravest warriors perished. by midday the right flank of Ali's army began to fall en the men began to flee, when Ali saw his right flank is falling he himself moved to the right flank and faced the onslaught of the enemy who were great in numbers, Ali drove the enemy back because of his great valor and fighting skills, he slaughtered every soldiers who came in his way, when the men saw their flank is reorganized by Ali himself they came back to the battlefield for a new attack. When Ali saw his right flank back in formation he returned to the centre and made an attack with the men from the centre and his personal bodyguard elite, The attack was so fierce that the whole Syrian army where pushed back. Ali himself fought with such a valor that even the great Syrian warriors got frightend of him when they heard that Ali is coming for an attack. the battle of that day was so fierce that it continued to the night. by the time Ali and his army had pushed the Syrians 500 meters back from the battleground and victory became in sight. it is said that every man Ali killed he called out \" god is great \" and when it was counted it came on 534 confirmed kills which is a record in history of war.\n\nWilliam Muir wrote that, \"Both armies drawn out in entire array, fought till the shades of evening fell, neither having got the better. The following morning, the combat was renewed with great vigour. Ali posed himself in the centre with the flower of his troops from Medina, and the wings were formed, one of the warriors from Basra, the other of those from Kufa. Muawiya had a pavilion pitched on the field; and there, surrounded by five lines of his sworn body-guards, watched the day. Amr with a great weight of horse, bore down upon the Kufa wing which gave away; and Ali was exposed to imminent peril, both from thick showers of arrows and from close encounter ... Ali's general Ashtar, at the head of 300 Hafiz-e-Qur'an(those who had memorized the Koran) led forward the other wing, which fell with fury on Muawiya's body-guards. Four of its five ranks were cut to pieces, and Muawiya, bethinking himself of flight, had already called for his horse, when a martial couplet flashed in his mind, and he held his ground.\"\n\nThe Battle of Nahrawan () was a battle between Ali ibn Abi Talib (the first Shi'ah Imam and the fourth Sunni Caliph) and the Kharijites, near Nahrawan, twelve miles from Baghdad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3989878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3989878", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Denmark)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Denmark)\n\nMinistry of Justice of Denmark () is the Danish government ministry responsible for the general judicial system, including the police and the prosecution service, the courts of law, and prisons and the probation service. In addition, the Ministry is responsible for legislation in the areas of criminal, private and family law, the law of trusts and foundations, nationality law and data protection law. The Ministry of Justice of Denmark might oversee the administration of justice in Greenland. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee List of Justice Ministers in Denmark \n\n\n"}
{"id": "50747327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50747327", "title": "Mortgage Credit Directive", "text": "Mortgage Credit Directive\n\nThe Mortgage Credit Directive (MCD) is a body of European legislation for the regulation of first- and second chargemortgages and consumer buy-to-let (CBTL) lending. It was originally adopted by the European Commission on 4 February 2014 and Member states had to transpose the regulations in their national law by March 2016.\n\nThe Directive introduces a European framework of conduct standards for firms selling residential mortgages.\n\nThe objective of the Directive is to create a Union-wide mortgage credit market, with a high level of consumer protection.\n\nThe Mortgage Credit Directive (MCD) lays down rules for creditors, credit intermediaries and appointed sales representatives relating to the residential immovable market. The MCD applies to credit agreements that are secured by a residential mortgage and to credit agreements that have the purpose to acquire or retain property rights in land or in an existing or projected building. The MCD was introduced by the European Union (EU) as implementation of the G20 commitment to establish principles on sound underwriting standards and to improve the conditions for the establishment of an internal market in the area of credit agreements relating to residential immovable property. Furthermore, The Mortgage Credit Directive was designed as a preventive measure to avoid irresponsible lending and borrowing behaviour by market participants in the EU and to avoid a situation similar to what happened in the United States in 2006–2008, where a real estate bubble affected over half of the United States and left many American citizens either homeless or in huge debts.\n\nThe Mortgage Credit Directive establishes common rules in the residential immovable market to better inform customers about the real costs of a mortgage, to enable customers to better compare between competitors and to reflect on the mortgage contract before contract closure. It introduces measures to better protect mortgage customers from unfair and misleading practices.\n\nThe Mortgage Credit Directive (MCD) is a body of legislation that encompasses all mortgage lending to consumers. Credit agreements relating to residential immovable property for business purposes fall outside the scope of the legislation.\n\nThe Regulation requires direct- and indirect mortgage sellers to provide the customer with a European Standardised Information Sheet (ESIS), in which the key features and risks of the mortgage contract are disclosed to the customer before contract closure. In many countries there already exists a paper which discloses information with regards to the mortgage contract, but the ESIS extends and clarifies this information. Included in the ESIS is a right of a seven-day reflection period, and information regarding the potential impact of interest rate changes. Furthermore, the ESIS sets out an Annual Percentage Rate of Charge (APRC) and provides example monthly payments in the case the interest rate rises to the highest level of the past 20 years. The ESIS must be issued in good time before the conclusion of the credit agreement, to enable the customer to compare and reflect on the mortgage contract and enable the customer to ask for third party advise.\n\nThe Directive includes a formula that should be used to present the customer the Annual Percentage Rate of Charge. The APRC allows customers to oversee the overall costs of the mortgage contract and to better compare between different offers.\n\nLenders are required to make a binding offer in relation to the mortgage contract. In the UK jurisdiction lenders were allowed to make conditional offers. This right remains preserved if a binding offer is made at a later stage of the process.\n\nThe Directive sets out a requirement for borrowers to have the right of a seven-day reflection. The Directive leaves it to the Member States to decide whether this right should be granted in the pre-sale period, in the post-sale period or as a combination of the two.\n\nThe Directive lays down specific rules for tying practises, which is the practise whereby a set of products or services has to be purchased together with the credit agreement. Combining credit agreements with other financial products or services is a mean for creditors to diversify and compete with other creditors. However, it may negatively affect customers’ mobility if the products can not be bought separately. Hence, the Directive helps to prevent tying practises that are not in the best interest of the customer, without constricting product bundling which can be beneficial to the mortgage customer.\n\nMember States should ensure that reliable valutation standards are in place to appropriately value immovable residential property before the conclusion of the credit agreement. These valuation standards should include internationally recognised valuation standards such as the standards developed by the International Valuation Standards Committee, the European Group of Valuers’ Associations or the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.\n\nThe Directive proposes certain protection measures for credit agreements in a foreign currency due to the significant risks attached for the consumer. Hence, Member States must ensure that the customer has the right to convert the credit agreement to an alternative currency or that there are other arrangements in place that limit the risk the customer is exposed to in foreign currency loans.\n\nThe Mortgage Credit Directive provides harmonised rules as regards the fields of knowledge and competence that creditors, credit intermediaries and appointed representatives’ staff should possess in order to achieve a high level of professionalism. Member States should provide adequate monitoring to ensure that these knowledge- and competence requirements are applied. In addition, the Directive states that Member States should promote measures to support the education of mortgage customers in order to increase his or her ability to make an informed decision.\n\nMember States should include or maintain disclosure requirements in their national law regarding the advertising of residential mortgages. These requirements ensure customer protection from unfair and misleading advertisements. Specific provisions regarding the advertisement of credit agreements should be given to enable customers to compare different offers and prevent them from a misleading impression of the product. Furthermore, the Directive states that advice given by mortgage providers should be in the best interest of the customer.\n\nMember States should issue additional guidance on criteria and methods to assess a clients’ creditworthiness and they are encouraged to implement the Financial Stability Board's Principles for Sound Residential Mortgage Underwriting practises in this respective. It is deemed to be essential that the customers’ ability to refinance the credit agreement is assessed and verified before the conclusion of the credit agreement. The assessment should take into consideration all relevant factors that could impact a customers’ ability to repay the loan. Reasonable allowance should be made for future events that could negatively impact this ability. Furthermore, the possibility of an increase in residential immovable property value should not be taken as a sufficient condition for granting the credit.\n\nMember States should ensure that customers have a right to early repayment. A customers’ ability, to repay to mortgage prior to the expiry of the mortgage credit agreement, may play an important role in order for customers to compare different credit offers and enhances competition in the internal credit market. Furthermore, the right to early repayment promotes financial stability within the Union.\n\nIn March 2003, the Commission initiated a process to identify and assess the impact of barriers to the internal market for credit agreements relating to residential property. In December 2007, the Commission adopted a White Paper on the Integration of EU Mortgage Credit Markets. They established an Expert Group on Credit History to prepare measures to improve credit data. In 2008, the financial crisis revealed a series of problems existent in the residential mortgage market. These problems related to irresponsible borrowing and lending and to the potential scope for misbehavior by market participants. In March 2009, the Commission has proposed measures in its Communication entitled ‘Driving European Recovery’ on 4 March, to deliver responsible markets for the future and restore consumer confidence in the residential immovable market. In March 2011, the European Commission adopted the proposal for a Directive on credit agreements relating to residential property. In February 2014, the Mortgage Credit Directive 2014/17/EU was adopted and the Directive was implemented in the Member States by March 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3529019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3529019", "title": "National Library of Colombia", "text": "National Library of Colombia\n\nThe National Library of Colombia () is the national library of Colombia. The library is a dependency of the Colombian Ministry of Culture.\n\nThe National Library of Colombia is generally considered to be the oldest national library in the Americas. It was founded at the end of the eighteenth century in 1777 by Viceroy Manuel De Guirior, who established the library in the city of Bogotá. The original collection of the library consisted of books expropriated from the Jesuit community, which had been expelled from all the dominions of the Spanish Empire, as a result of the 1767 order of King Charles III of Spain. In 1825, due to the work of Francisco de Paula Santander, the library was established at the campus of the Colegio de San Bartolomé and received its current name. On March 25, 1834, the first legal deposit law was decreed, which required that all copies of printed material in the country be sent to the library for storage. This law set the objective of the library, which then became the sole entity in charge of maintaining the bibliographic heritage of the nation.\n\nBibliographic wealth of Colombia (incunabular, prints, sound recordings and audio-visual work of great historical and artistic value), located in the southeast corner of Independence Park. Founded January 9, 1777, inaugurated in 1938 and remodeled in 1978 by architect Jacques Mosseri, except decorative elements and façade design remained the same.\n\nThe two statues on both sides of calle 25 access, high relief at the attic, sign materials mixture and windows ornamentation were abolished. Four story building. In the first floor general reading rooms, kardex, exhibitions, music, classification, among other. In the second floor hemerotheca and researchers, in the third and fourth floors book storage and administrative offices.\n\nProvides legal publications storage, official publications trade, guided visits, user card, photogram reproduction, works and photographs photocopying, and photograph or film works. As part of valuable donations received, Manuel del Socorro Rodríguez, Miguel Antonio Caro, Rufino José Cuervo, Eduardo Santos and Germán Arciniegas are the most important.\n\nThe library's mission is:\n\"Garantizar la recuperación, preservación y acceso a la memoria colectiva del país, representada por el patrimonio bibliográfico y hemerográfico en cualquier soporte físico; así como la promoción y fomento de las bibliotecas públicas, la planeación y diseño de políticas relacionadas con la lectura, y la satisfacción de necesidades de información indispensables para el desarrollo individual y colectivo de los colombianos...\"\n\nTo guarantee the recovery of, preservation of, and access to the collective memory of the country, represented by the bibliographic and periodical heritage and in any form; so as to promote and foment public libraries, the planning and design of policies related to reading, and the satisfaction of the indispensable need for information for the individual and collective development of Colombians...\n\nIn addition, according to a history of the library, the library also functions as a training center for librarians in Colombia as well as a source of books for other countries' libraries.\n\nAccording to a decree of the Senate of Colombia, the library's stated functions are:\n\nThe law of legal deposit is regulated by Law 44 of 1993, the statutory Decree No. 460 of March 16, 1999, and the Decree 2150 of 1995. These laws and decrees are specifically about the National Library of Colombia. The creators of printed works, as well as audiovisual, audio, and video productions, should supply the library with a specified number of copies of the works, whether they were produced within the Colombian territory or imported.\n\nDue to the legal deposit law and many charitable donations, the National Library has a large catalog of publications. The collection contains 47 \"incunabula\", 610 volumes of manuscripts and other publications of \"rare and curious\" books, particularly purchased from or donated by personalities from the political and social life of Colombia, including the collections of Eduardo Santos, German Arciniegas, Jorge Isaacs, Manuel Ancízar, Marco Fidel Suárez, Miguel Antonio Caro, and Rufino José Cuervo among others. The library also possesses publications of the United Nations Library, and pictorial works of historical value like the watercolors of the Chorography Commission. A large quantity of audio recordings comes from the legal deposit law, which has also allowed the library to possess a general collection of the majority of the publications made in the country since the year 1830 as well as a newspaper library with publications of priceless value, like the \"Aviso de Terremoto\", considered the premiere periodical publication in the Republic of Colombia.\n\nThe total collection of the Biblioteca Nacional de Colombia exceeds 2,000,000 volumes. Of this, approximately 25% was acquired through the beforementioned legal deposit laws. The other books have mostly come from donations.\n\n"}
{"id": "4402929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4402929", "title": "Occupational Health Services Convention, 1985", "text": "Occupational Health Services Convention, 1985\n\nOccupational Health Services Convention, 1985 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1985, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to occupational health services...\n\nAs of August 2015, the convention has been ratified by 32 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "9754764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9754764", "title": "Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture", "text": "Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture\n\nThe Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (commonly known as the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture (OPCAT)) is a treaty that supplements to the 1984 United Nations Convention Against Torture. It establishes an international inspection system for places of detention modeled on the system that has existed in Europe since 1987 (the Committee for the Prevention of Torture).\n\nThe OPCAT was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in New York on 18 December 2002, and it entered into force on 22 June 2006. As of January 2018, the Protocol has 75 signatories and 87 parties.\n\nThe idea for this scheme of torture prevention goes back to the Swiss Committee for the Prevention of Torture (today Association for the Prevention of Torture, APT), founded in 1977 by Jean-Jacques Gautier in Geneva. It envisaged the establishment of a worldwide system of inspection of places of detention, which later took the form of an Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (1984). For a long time, however, the necessary support for such an optional protocol was not forthcoming. As a consequence, the UN Committee Against Torture (CAT) had at its disposal only relatively weak instruments: it could analyse and discuss the self-reports of the respective governments and create the institution of a Special Rapporteur on Torture. But neither CAT nor its Special Rapporteur had the power to visit countries, let alone inspect prisons, without the respective government's permission. In 1987, the Council of Europe realized the original idea on a regional level with its European Convention for the Prevention of Torture. On this basis, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture has demonstrated that regular visits, reports and recommendations to the governments as well as the publication of these reports and the governments' reactions the viability of this model. This in turn led to a breakthrough within the United Nations: OPCAT was created and opened for signatures on 18 December 2002 by the UN General Assembly.\n\nAfter ratification by 20 states, the Optional Protocol came into force on 22 June 2006.\n\nAs of June 2018, 88 states have ratified the protocol: Afghanistan, Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Serbia, Slovenia, South Sudan, Spain, Sri Lanka, State of Palestine, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, and Uruguay.\n\nA further 15 states have signed but not ratified the protocol: Angola, Belgium, Cameroon, Chad, Republic of the Congo, East Timor, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Iceland, Ireland, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Venezuela, and Zambia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24133640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24133640", "title": "Period of financial distress", "text": "Period of financial distress\n\nA period of financial distress occurs when the price of a company or an asset or an index of a set of assets in a market is declining with the danger of a sudden crash of value occurring, either because the company is experiencing increasing problems of cash flow or a deteriorating credit balance or because the price had become too high as a result of a speculative bubble that has now peaked.\n\nIt is not known when this phrase was first used or by whom. However, it or phrases closely equivalent were almost certainly first used in connection with the theory of value investing as developed initially by Benjamin Graham in his famous book Security Analysis (Graham and Dodd, 1934). This theory advocated long-term investing in stocks or assets that are underpriced compared to their intrinsic value, that is they have suffered “distress sales” and the stock or asset of company is going through a “period of financial distress.” If such a period is temporary, and the company can be expected to return to an improved condition of normal solvency, then investing in such an asset can be expected to outperform the stock market in general in the longer run. In connection with this Graham developed the Benjamin Graham formula, also known as “net current asset value.” A similar analysis was done by John Burr Williams who developed his discounted cash flow theory (Williams, 1938). A prominent advocate of Graham and his approach has been Warren Buffett, who has claimed that he is an “85% Graham investor” (Buffett, 2003).\n\nThis approach has been criticized by advocates of modern portfolio theory (MPT) and the closely related doctrine of the efficient-market hypothesis (EMH) most closely associated with Eugene Fama (Fama, 1970). These theories argue that if a stock or asset is selling at what appears to be a “distress value” compared to some estimate of its true value based on its current income flows, then the market has information about the expected future of the company or asset that is not reflected in its current income flow. In this regard, investors such as Buffett who have successfully used the Graham approach should expect to spend extra resources to have better information about the companies or assets they purchase compared to most agents in the market. A study that shows that the Graham approach may well do better than various other alternatives (such as the “three-factor theory” that Fama and French, 1996, have argued performs better than the EMH), is Xiao and Arnold (2008).\n\nAnother use of this phrase has been in connection with efforts to predict corporate bankruptcies that may come out of such a period of financial distress. One who developed an approach to making such predictions has been Edward Altman, who developed the z-score financial analysis tool (Altman, 1968). Further study of this and related tools has been done by Altman and Hotchkiss (2005). This idea can be related to the earlier issue in that presumably why the Graham approach might not do as well as such alternatives as MPT or EMH is that it does not satisfactorily account for the risk of such bankruptcies. Again, it is clear that to outperform such models a Graham-style investor will have to have sufficiently good information about such possibilities to know whether or not such a threat can be discounted.\n\nDrawing on these uses from corporate finance, Hyman Minsky applied the phrase to analyzing speculative bubbles and crashes (Minsky, 1972), using it to characterize a period in a speculative bubble that follows a peak in price, in which the price gradually declines, and which is then followed by a crash in which the price falls precipitously. This analysis was adopted by Charles P. Kindleberger, who in Appendix B of the 4th edition of his book, \"Manias, Panics, and Crashes\" (2000) identified 37 out of 47 historical bubbles as exhibiting such a pattern, including most of the more famous ones. Although the phrase was not used, participants in periods of financial distress in early bubbles used a variety of colorful terms and phrases for them, such as \"apprehension\" or \"an ugly drop in the market\" during the South Sea bubble in Britain in 1720 (Carswell, 1960, p. 139). Arguably the recent global bubble in financial derivatives exhibited this pattern, with a peak in August 2007, followed by a crash in September 2008.\nThe first to develop a mathematical model of this period of financial distress was J. Barkley Rosser, Jr. (Chapter 5, 1991), drawing on catastrophe theory, while a more detailed such model using agent-based modeling and relying on the wealth constraint idea due to Minsky has been done by Gallegati, Palestrini, and Rosser (2011.)\n\n"}
{"id": "751410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=751410", "title": "Pieter Cort van der Linden", "text": "Pieter Cort van der Linden\n\nPieter Wilhelm Adrianus Cort van der Linden (14 May 1846 – 15 July 1935) was a Dutch statesman who served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from 29 August 1913 to 9 September 1918.\n\nHe was the last Prime Minister to lead a liberal cabinet and the last liberal to be Prime Minister until Mark Rutte in 2010 (92 years later). However, the First Rutte cabinet only held a minority in the House of Representatives. One of Cort van der Linden's major achievements was maintaining Dutch neutrality during World War I, although personally he was pro-German.\n\nHe also introduced universal suffrage in the Netherlands in what is nowadays known as the Pacification of 1917. Because of this, the Social Democratic Workers' Party and the General League of Roman Catholic Caucuses won the 1918 elections. The Catholic Charles Ruijs de Beerenbrouck took Cort van der Linden's place as Prime Minister.\n"}
{"id": "788091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=788091", "title": "Psychological trauma", "text": "Psychological trauma\n\nPsychological trauma is a type of damage to the mind that occurs as a result of a distressing event. Trauma is often the result of an overwhelming amount of stress that exceeds one's ability to cope, or integrate the emotions involved with that experience. Trauma may result from a single distressing experience or recurring events of being overwhelmed that can be precipitated in weeks, years, or even decades as the person struggles to cope with the immediate circumstances, eventually leading to serious, long-term negative consequences.\n\nBecause trauma differs between individuals, according to their subjective experiences, people will react to similar traumatic events differently. In other words, not all people who experience a potentially traumatic event will actually become psychologically traumatized. However, it is possible for some people to develop post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after being exposed to a major traumatic event.\nThis discrepancy in risk rate can be attributed to protective factors some individuals may have that enable them to cope with trauma; they are related to temperamental and environmental factors from among others. Some examples are mild exposure to stress early in life, resilience characteristics, and active seeking of help.\n\nThe Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV-TR) defines trauma as direct personal experience of an event that involves actual or threatened death or serious injury; threat to one's physical integrity, witnessing an event that involves the above experience, learning about unexpected or violent death, serious harm, or threat of death, or injury experienced by a family member or close associate. Memories associated with trauma are implicit, pre-verbal and cannot be recalled, but can be triggered by stimuli from the in vivo environment. The person's response to aversive details of traumatic event involve intense fear, helplessness or horror. In children it is manifested as disorganized or agitative behaviors.\n\nTrauma can be caused by a wide variety of events, but there are a few common aspects. There is frequently a violation of the person's core assumptions about the world and their human rights, putting the person in a state of extreme confusion and insecurity. This is seen when institutions depended upon for survival violate, humiliate, betray, or cause major losses or separations instead of evoking aspects like positive self worth, safe boundaries and personal freedom.\n\nPsychologically traumatic experiences often involve physical trauma that threatens one's survival and sense of security. Typical causes and dangers of psychological trauma include harassment, embarrassment, abandonment, abusive relationships, rejection, co-dependence, physical assault, sexual abuse, partner battery, employment discrimination, police brutality, judicial corruption and misconduct, bullying, paternalism, domestic violence, indoctrination, being the victim of an alcoholic parent, the threat or the witnessing of violence (particularly in childhood), life-threatening medical conditions, and medication-induced trauma. Catastrophic natural disasters such as earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, large scale transportation accidents, house or domestic fire, motor vehicle accident, mass interpersonal violence like war, terrorist attacks or other mass victimization like sex trafficking, being taken as a hostage or being kidnapped can also cause psychological trauma. Long-term exposure to situations such as extreme poverty or other forms of abuse, such as verbal abuse, exist independently of physical trauma but still generate psychological trauma.\n\nSome theories suggest childhood trauma can increase one's risk for mental disorders including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, and substance abuse. Childhood adversity is associated with neuroticism during adulthood. \nParts of the brain in a growing child are developing in a sequential and hierarchical order, from least complex to most complex. The brain's neurons are designed to change in response to the constant external signals and stimulation, receiving and storing new information. This allows the brain to continually respond to its surroundings and promote survival. Our five main sensory signals contribute to the developing brain structure and its function. \nInfants and children begin to create internal representations of their external environment, and in particular, key attachment relationships, shortly after birth. Violent and victimizing attachment figures impact infants' and young children's internal representations. The more frequent a specific pattern of brain neurons is activated, the more permanent the internal representation associated with the pattern becomes. This causes sensitization in the brain towards the specific neural network. Because of this sensitization, the neural pattern can be activated by decreasingly less external stimuli. \nChildhood abuse tends to have the most complications with long-term effects out of all forms of trauma because it occurs during the most sensitive and critical stages of psychological development. It could also lead to violent behavior, possibly as extreme as serial murder. For example, Hickey's Trauma-Control Model suggests that \"childhood trauma for serial murderers may serve as a triggering mechanism resulting in an individual's inability to cope with the stress of certain events.\"\n\nOften psychodynamic aspects of trauma are overlooked even by health professionals: \"If clinicians fail to look through a trauma lens and to conceptualize client problems as related possibly to current or past trauma, they may fail to see that trauma victims, young and old, organize much of their lives around repetitive patterns of reliving and warding off traumatic memories, reminders, and affects.\"\n\nPeople who go through these types of extremely traumatic experiences often have certain symptoms and problems afterward. The severity of these symptoms depends on the person, the type of trauma involved, and the emotional support they receive from others. The range of reactions to and symptoms of trauma can be wide and varied, and differ in severity from person to person. A traumatized individual may experience one or several of them.\n\nAfter a traumatic experience, a person may re-experience the trauma mentally and physically, hence trauma reminders, also called triggers, can be uncomfortable and even painful. Re-experiencing can damage people’s sense of safety, self, self-efficacy, as well as their ability to regulate emotions and navigate relationships. They may turn to psychoactive substances including alcohol to try to escape or dampen the feelings. These triggers cause flashbacks, which are dissociative experiences where the person feels as though the events are recurring. Flashbacks can range from distraction to complete dissociation or loss of awareness of the current context. Re-experiencing of symptoms is a sign that the body and mind are actively struggling to cope with the traumatic experience.\n\nTriggers and cues act as reminders of the trauma and can cause anxiety and other associated emotions. Often the person can be completely unaware of what these triggers are. In many cases this may lead a person suffering from traumatic disorders to engage in disruptive behaviors or self-destructive coping mechanisms, often without being fully aware of the nature or causes of their own actions. Panic attacks are an example of a psychosomatic response to such emotional triggers.\n\nConsequently, intense feelings of anger may frequently surface, sometimes in inappropriate or unexpected situations, as danger may always seem to be present due to re-experiencing past events. Upsetting memories such as images, thoughts, or flashbacks may haunt the person, and nightmares may be frequent. Insomnia may occur as lurking fears and insecurity keep the person vigilant and on the lookout for danger, both day and night. Trauma doesn't only cause changes in one's daily functions, but could also lead to morphological changes. Such epigenetic changes can be passed on to the next generation, thus making genetics one of the components of psychological trauma. However, some people are born with or later develop protective factors such as genetics and sex that help lower their risk of psychological trauma.\n\nThe person may not remember what actually happened, while emotions experienced during the trauma may be re-experienced without the person understanding why (see Repressed Memory). This can lead to the traumatic events being constantly experienced as if they were happening in the present, preventing the subject from gaining perspective on the experience. This can produce a pattern of prolonged periods of acute arousal punctuated by periods of physical and mental exhaustion. This can lead to mental health disorders like acute stress and anxiety disorder, traumatic grief, undifferentiated somatoform disorder, conversion disorders, brief psychotic disorder, borderline personality disorder, adjustment disorder, etc.\n\nIn time, emotional exhaustion may set in, leading to distraction, and clear thinking may be difficult or impossible. Emotional detachment, as well as dissociation or \"numbing out\" can frequently occur. Dissociating from the painful emotion includes numbing all emotion, and the person may seem emotionally flat, preoccupied, distant, or cold. Dissociation includes depersonalisation disorder, dissociative amnesia, dissociative fugue, dissociative identity disorder, etc. Exposure to and re-experiencing trauma can cause neurophysiological changes like slowed myelination, abnormalities in synaptic pruning, shrinking of the hippocampus, cognitive and affective impairment. This is significant in brain scan studies done regarding higher order function assessment with children and youth who were in vulnerable environments.\n\nSome traumatized people may feel permanently damaged when trauma symptoms do not go away and they do not believe their situation will improve. This can lead to feelings of despair, transient paranoid ideation, loss of self-esteem, profound emptiness, suicidality, and frequently depression. If important aspects of the person's self and world understanding have been violated, the person may call their own identity into question. Often despite their best efforts, traumatized parents may have difficulty assisting their child with emotion regulation, attribution of meaning, and containment of post-traumatic fear in the wake of the child's traumatization, leading to adverse consequences for the child. In such instances, seeking counselling in appropriate mental health services is in the best interests of both the child and the parent(s).\n\nTrauma can be caused by man-made, technological disasters and natural disasters, including war, abuse, violence, mechanized accidents (car, train, or plane crashes, etc.) or medical emergencies.\n\nResponses to psychological trauma:\nResponse to psychological trauma can be varied based on the type of trauma, as well as socio demographic and background factors.\nThere are several behavioral responses common towards stressors including the proactive, reactive, and passive responses. Proactive responses include attempts to address and correct a stressor before it has a noticeable effect on lifestyle. Reactive responses occur after the stress and possible trauma has occurred and are aimed more at correcting or minimizing the damage of a stressful event. A passive response is often characterized by an emotional numbness or ignorance of a stressor.\n\nThose who are able to be proactive can often overcome stressors and are more likely to be able to cope well with unexpected situations. On the other hand, those who are more reactive will often experience more noticeable effects from an unexpected stressor. In the case of those who are passive, victims of a stressful event are more likely to suffer from long-term traumatic effects and often enact no intentional coping actions. These observations may suggest that the level of trauma associated with a victim is related to such independent coping abilities.\n\nThere is also a distinction between trauma induced by recent situations and long-term trauma which may have been buried in the unconscious from past situations such as childhood abuse. Trauma is sometimes overcome through healing; in some cases this can be achieved by recreating or revisiting the origin of the trauma under more psychologically safe circumstances, such as with a therapist.\n\nFrench neurologist Jean-Martin Charcot argued in the 1890s that psychological trauma was the origin of all instances of the mental illness known as hysteria. Charcot's \"traumatic hysteria\" often manifested as a paralysis that followed a physical trauma, typically years later after what Charcot described as a period of \"incubation\".\nSigmund Freud, Charcot's student and the father of psychoanalysis, examined the concept of psychological trauma throughout his career. Jean Laplanche has given a general description of Freud's understanding of trauma, which varied significantly over the course of Freud's career: \"An event in the subject's life, defined by its intensity, by the subject's incapacity to respond adequately to it and by the upheaval and long-lasting effects that it brings about in the psychical organization\".\n\nThe French psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan claimed that what he called \"The Real\" had a traumatic quality external to symbolization. As an object of anxiety, Lacan maintained that The Real is \"the essential object which isn't an object any longer, but this something faced with which all words cease and all categories fail, the object of anxiety \"par excellence\"\".\n\nAll psychological traumas originate from stress, a physiological response to an unpleasant stimulus. Long term stress increases the risk of poor mental health and mental disorders, which can be attributed to secretion of glucocorticoids for a long period of time. Such prolonged exposure causes many physiological dysfunctions such as the suppression of the immune system and increase in blood pressure. Not only does it affect the body physiologically, but a morphological change in the hippocampus also takes place. Studies showed that extreme stress early in life can disrupt normal development of hippocampus and impact its functions in adulthood. Studies surely show a correlation between the size of hippocampus and one's susceptibility to stress disorders. In times of war, psychological trauma has been known as shell shock or combat stress reaction. Psychological trauma may cause an acute stress reaction which may lead to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). PTSD emerged as the label for this condition after the Vietnam War in which many veterans returned to their respective countries demoralized, and sometimes, addicted to psychoactive substances. The symptoms of PTSD must persist for at least a month for diagnosis. The main symptoms of PTSD consist of four main categories: trauma (i.e. intense fear), reliving (i.e. flashbacks), avoidance behavior (i.e. emotional numbing), and hypervigilance (i.e. continuous scanning of the environment for danger). Research shows that about 60% of the US population reported as having experienced at least one traumatic symptom in their lives, but only a small proportion actually develops PTSD. There is a correlation between the risk of PTSD and whether or not the act was inflicted deliberately by the offender. Psychological trauma is treated with therapy and, if indicated, psychotropic medications.\n\nThe term \"continuous post traumatic stress disorder\" (CTSD) was introduced into the trauma literature by Gill Straker (1987). It was originally used by South African clinicians to describe the effects of exposure to frequent, high levels of violence usually associated with civil conflict and political repression. The term is also applicable to the effects of exposure to contexts in which gang violence and crime are endemic as well as to the effects of ongoing exposure to life threats in high-risk occupations such as police, fire and emergency services.\n\nAs one of the processes of treatment, confrontation with their sources of trauma plays a crucial role. While debriefing people immediately after a critical incident has not been shown to reduce incidence of PTSD, coming alongside people experiencing trauma in a supportive way has become standard practice.\n\nVicarious trauma affects workers who witnesses their clients' trauma. It is more likely to occur in situations where trauma related work is the norm rather than the exception. Listening with empathy to the clients generates feeling, and seeing oneself in clients' trauma may compound the risk for developing trauma symptoms. Trauma may also result if workers witness situations that happen in the course of their work (e.g. violence in the workplace, reviewing violent video tapes.) Risk increases with exposure and with the absence of help seeking protective factors and pre-preparation of preventive strategies.\n\nAs \"trauma\" adopted a more widely defined scope, traumatology as a field developed a more interdisciplinary approach. This is in part due to the field's diverse professional representation including: psychologists, medical professionals, and lawyers. As a result, findings in this field are adapted for various applications, from individual psychiatric treatments to sociological large-scale trauma management. However, novel fields require novel methodologies. While the field has adopted a number of diverse methodological approaches, many pose their own limitations in practical application.\n\nThe experience and outcomes of psychological trauma can be assessed in a number of ways. Within the context of a clinical interview, the risk of imminent danger to the self or others is important to address but is not the focus of assessment. In most cases, it will not be necessary to involve contacting emergency services (e.g., medical, psychiatric, law enforcement) to ensure the individuals safety; members of the individual's social support network are much more critical.\n\nUnderstanding and accepting the psychological state an individual is in is paramount. There are many misconceptions of what it means for a traumatized individual to be in psychological crisis. These are times when an individual is in inordinate amounts of pain and incapable of self-comfort. If treated humanely and respectfully the individual is less likely to resort to self harm. In these situations it is best to provide a supportive, caring environment and to communicate to the individual that no matter the circumstance, the individual will be taken seriously rather than being treated as delusional. It is vital for the assessor to understand that what is going on in the traumatized person's head is valid and real. If deemed appropriate, the assessing clinician may proceed by inquiring about both the traumatic event and the outcomes experienced (e.g., post-traumatic symptoms, dissociation, substance abuse, somatic symptoms, psychotic reactions). Such inquiry occurs within the context of established rapport and is completed in an empathic, sensitive, and supportive manner. The clinician may also inquire about possible relational disturbance, such as alertness to interpersonal danger, abandonment issues, and the need for self-protection via interpersonal control. Through discussion of interpersonal relationships, the clinician is better able to assess the individual's ability to enter and sustain a clinical relationship.\n\nDuring assessment, individuals may exhibit activation responses in which reminders of the traumatic event trigger sudden feelings (e.g., distress, anxiety, anger), memories, or thoughts relating to the event. Because individuals may not yet be capable of managing this distress, it is necessary to determine how the event can be discussed in such a way that will not \"retraumatize\" the individual. It is also important to take note of such responses, as these responses may aid the clinician in determining the intensity and severity of possible post traumatic stress as well as the ease with which responses are triggered. Further, it is important to note the presence of possible avoidance responses. Avoidance responses may involve the absence of expected activation or emotional reactivity as well as the use of avoidance mechanisms (e.g., substance use, effortful avoidance of cues associated with the event, dissociation).\n\nIn addition to monitoring activation and avoidance responses, clinicians carefully observe the individual's strengths or difficulties with affect regulation (i.e., affect tolerance and affect modulation). Such difficulties may be evidenced by mood swings, brief yet intense depressive episodes, or self-mutilation. The information gathered through observation of affect regulation will guide the clinician's decisions regarding the individual's readiness to partake in various therapeutic activities.\n\nThough assessment of psychological trauma may be conducted in an unstructured manner, assessment may also involve the use of a structured interview. Such interviews might include the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS; Blake et al., 1995), Acute Stress Disorder Interview (ASDI; Bryant, Harvey, Dang, & Sackville, 1998), Structured Interview for Disorders of Extreme Stress (SIDES; Pelcovitz et al., 1997), Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Dissociative Disorders- Revised (SCID-D; Steinberg, 1994), and Brief Interview for post-traumatic Disorders (BIPD; Briere, 1998).\n\nLastly, assessment of psychological trauma might include the use of self-administered psychological tests. Individual scores on such tests are compared to normative data in order to determine how the individual's level of functioning compares to others in a sample representative of the general population. Psychological testing might include the use of generic tests (e.g., MMPI-2, MCMI-III, SCL-90-R) to assess non-trauma-specific symptoms as well as difficulties related to personality. In addition, psychological testing might include the use of trauma-specific tests to assess post-traumatic outcomes. Such tests might include the post-traumatic Stress Diagnostic Scale (PDS; Foa, 1995), Davidson Trauma Scale (DTS: Davidson et al., 1997), Detailed Assessment of post-traumatic Stress (DAPS; Briere, 2001), Trauma Symptom Inventory (TSI: Briere, 1995), Trauma Symptom Checklist for Children (TSCC; Briere, 1996), Traumatic Life Events Questionnaire (TLEQ: Kubany et al., 2000), and Trauma-related Guilt Inventory (TRGI: Kubany et al., 1996).\n\nChildren are assessed through activities and therapeutic relationship, some of the activities are play genogram, sand worlds, coloring feelings, Self and Kinetic family drawing, symbol work, dramatic-puppet play, story telling, Briere's TSCC, etc.\n\nA number of psychotherapy approaches have been designed with the treatment of trauma in mind—EMDR, progressive counting (PC), somatic experiencing, biofeedback, Internal Family Systems Therapy, and sensorimotor psychotherapy.\n\nThere is a large body of empirical support for the use of cognitive behavioral therapy for the treatment of trauma-related symptoms, including post-traumatic stress disorder. Institute of Medicine guidelines identify cognitive behavioral therapies as the most effective treatments for PTSD. Two of these cognitive behavioral therapies, prolonged exposure and cognitive processing therapy, are being disseminated nationally by the Department of Veterans Affairs for the treatment of PTSD. Seeking Safety is another type of cognitive behavioral therapy that focuses on learning safe coping skills for co-occurring PTSD and substance use problems. While some sources highlight Seeking Safety as effective with strong research support, others have suggested that it did not lead to improvements beyond usual treatment. Recent studies show that a combination of treatments involving dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), often used for borderline personality disorder, and exposure therapy is highly effective in treating psychological trauma. If, however, psychological trauma has caused dissociative disorders or complex PTSD, the trauma model approach (also known as phase-oriented treatment of structural dissociation) has been proven to work better than simple cognitive approach. Studies funded by pharmaceuticals have also shown that medications such as the new anti-depressants are effective when used in combination with other psychological approaches.\n\nTrauma therapy allows processing trauma-related memories and allows growth towards more adaptive psychological functioning. It helps to develop positive coping instead of negative coping and allows the individual to integrate upsetting-distressing material (thoughts, feelings and memories) and to resolve these internally. It also aids in growth of personal skills like resilience, ego regulation, empathy, etc.\n\nProcesses involved in trauma therapy are:\n\n\nA number of complementary approaches to trauma treatment have been implicated as well, including yoga and meditation. Trauma-sensitive yoga has been specifically developed for the purposes of use with traumatized individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19294798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19294798", "title": "Registered trademark symbol", "text": "Registered trademark symbol\n\nThe registered trademark symbol (®) is a symbol that provides notice that the preceding word or symbol is a trademark or service mark that has been registered with a national trademark office. A trademark is a symbol, word, or words legally registered or established by use as representing a company or product. In some countries it is against the law to use the registered trademark symbol for a mark that is not officially registered in any country.\n\nTrademarks not officially registered can instead be marked with the trademark symbol ™, while unregistered service marks are marked with the service mark symbol ℠. The proper manner to display these symbols is immediately following the mark, and is commonly in superscript style but is not legally required.\n\nThe registered trademark symbol was originally introduced in the Trademark Act of 1946.\n\nThe registered trademark character has a standardized representation in most computer systems. It is mapped in Unicode as . The registered trademark symbol ® is distinct, in computer representation, from the similar character \n\nBecause the ® symbol is not commonly available on typewriters and ASCII-based computer systems, it is common to approximate it with the characters (R) (or (r)); for example, the Python programming language Trademark Usage Policy advocates this usage. Example of legal equivalents are the phrase \"Registered, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office\", which may be abbreviated to \"Reg U.S. Pat & TM Off.\", in the U.S., and the letters \"RTM\" in the UK.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6615292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6615292", "title": "Regulatory law", "text": "Regulatory law\n\nRegulatory law refers to law promulgated by an executive branch agency under a delegation from a legislature. Discussed at Regulation (law) and Primary and secondary legislation. Regulatory law contrasts to statutory law promulgated by the legislative branch, and common law or case law promulgated by the judicial branch.\n\nThe law that governs conduct of administrative agencies (both promulgation of regulations, and adjudication of applications or disputes), and judicial review of agency decisions, is called Administrative law. Administrative law is promulgated by the legislature (and refined by judicial common law) for \"governing\" agencies.\n\nThe administrative agencies are to create procedures, applications, licences, appeals and one other important thing called decision making. Administrative Procedure Act is responsible for all the Federal agency policies. Some states have started following the policies through law or by regulation\n"}
{"id": "33357869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33357869", "title": "Residenzpflicht", "text": "Residenzpflicht\n\nResidenzpflicht (German for \"mandatory residence\") is a legal requirement affecting foreigners living in Germany, more specifically applicants for refugee status (\"Asylbewerber\") or those who have been given a temporary stay of deportation (\"Geduldete\"). Those affected are required to live within certain boundaries defined by the applicants' local foreigners' office (\"Ausländerbehörde\").\n\nApplications for refugee status are required at all times to reside in the district of their local foreigner's office (§56 and §85 of the German Refugee Processing Law - the \"Asylverfahrensgesetz\"). Foreigners with a stay of deportation are generally required to stay within the boundaries of their federal state (ranging from small city-states such as Bremen to larger states such as Bavaria) and are regulated by §61 and §95 of the German Residence Act (\"Aufenthaltsgesetz\")\n\nForeigner who contravene the relevant legislation mentioned above can be imprisoned or face fines.\n\nThe \"Residenzpflicht\" is unique to Germany. A 2007 complaint to the European Court of Human Rights was not accepted for judgment. Several immigrant and refugee advocacy organisations oppose the \"Residenzpflicht\" as a violation of fundamental human rights\n"}
{"id": "23641488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23641488", "title": "Resolution Funding Corporation", "text": "Resolution Funding Corporation\n\nThe Resolution Funding Corporation (REFCORP) is a government-sponsored enterprise that provides funds to the Resolution Trust Corporation, which was established to finance the bailout of savings and loan associations in the wake of the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s in the United States. It was established by the United States Congress in the summer of 1989, as part of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989. The Resolution Funding Corporation is a 501(c)(1) organization. As of July 1997, the Resolution Funding Corporation's debt stood at $30 billion.\n\nOn August 5, 2011, the Federal Housing Finance Agency announced that the Federal Home Loan Banks had repaid all of the interest on the Resolution Funding Corporation bonds. The Banks were required to pay 20 percent of their profits (after payments to the Affordable Housing Program) toward the RefCorp bond payments. These moneys will now be paid into a restricted retained earnings account until the Bank’s account equals one percent of that Bank’s outstanding consolidated obligations.\n\n"}
{"id": "567204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567204", "title": "Rules of engagement", "text": "Rules of engagement\n\nRules of engagement (ROE) are the internal rules or directives among military forces (including individuals) that define the circumstances, conditions, degree, and manner in which the use of force, or actions which might be construed as provocative, may be applied. They provide authorization for and/or limits on, among other things, the use of force and the employment of certain specific capabilities. In some nations, ROE has the status of guidance to military forces, while in other nations, ROE is lawful commands. Rules of engagement do not normally dictate how a result is to be achieved, but will indicate what measures may be unacceptable.\n\nWhile ROE is used in both domestic and international operations by some militaries, ROE is not used for domestic operations in the United States. Instead, the use of force by the U.S. military in such situations is governed by Rules for the Use of Force (RUF).\n\nAn abbreviated description of the rules of engagement may be issued to all personnel. Commonly referred to as a \"ROE card\", this document provides the soldier with a summary of the ROE regulating the use of force for a particular mission.\n\nWhile many countries have their own rules of engagement documents, many others do not. There are two primary international rules of engagement manuals that are internationally available: NATO \"ROE Manual MC 362-1\" (restricted to NATO and Partnership for Peace countries); and the \"San Remo Rules of Engagement Handbook\", which is freely available to all on the International Institute of Humanitarian Law (IIHL) website. Created for the IIHL by Commander Alan Cole, Major Phillip Drew, Captain Rob McLaughlin and Professor Dennis Mandsager, the \"San Remo ROE Handbook\" has been translated from its English original into French, Chinese, Arabic, Spanish, Hungarian, Russian, Bosnian, and Thai and several other languages. Several countries have used the San Remo handbook as a model for creating their own ROE systems.\n\nThe International Institute of Humanitarian Law in San Remo, Italy conducts rules of engagement training course at least once per year, usually in September. Taught by some of the world's foremost authorities on ROE, the course attracts students from around the globe. Similar training by the San Remo ROE drafting team is conducted for the United Nations, staff colleges and other organizations as requested.\n\nAll rules of engagement created for use in armed conflict and in the \"jus ad bellum\" must comply with international law, as well as the domestic law of the state(s) using them. Any ROE that purport to permit violations of applicable law are void \"ab initio\". Thus, for example, any ROE that would permit the torture of a person would be unlawful. Hence, compendia in ROE Handbooks, such as the San Remo Handbook, only provide ROE options that can comply with international law.\nOften, violations of the laws of armed conflict are confused with violations of rules of engagement. Insofar as ROE generally regulate the amount or type of force that can be used in a given circumstance, ROE violations are typically related to the use of excessive or unauthorized force or actions. Violations of the laws of armed conflict, on the other hand, consist of violations of the treaties and customary law that make up the laws of armed conflict. \n\nROE can not be used to negate an individual's right to defend oneself from an attack. If, in peacetime, an individual uses force in self defence, or in the defence of others, then attention must be turned to whether or not that force was reasonable and necessary in the circumstances.. \n\n\n\"San Remo Handbook on Rules of Engagement\" \n"}
{"id": "24230253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24230253", "title": "Sabra (company)", "text": "Sabra (company)\n\nSabra Dipping Company, LLC is a U.S.-based company which produces Middle Eastern-style and other food products, including hummus, tzatziki dip, guacamole, and Mediterranean salsa. All Sabra products are certified kosher and vegetarian, and are available throughout the U.S. and Canada. As of 2016, the company held a 60% market share for hummus sales in the United States, and was forecast to exceed $1 billion in sales in 2017.\n\nThe company was founded in 1986 as Sabra-Blue & White Foods. The company was bought in 2005 by Israeli food manufacturer Strauss. In March 2008, Strauss entered a joint-venture partnership with Frito-Lay, a division of the multinational PepsiCo corporation. Strauss owns 50% and PepsiCo 50% of the company. In November 2008, the company announced the construction of a new $61 million plant in Chesterfield County, Virginia, expected to employ 260 people and come on line in mid-2010. The company grew over 50% between August 2008 and August 2009.\n\nBy 2016, Sabra had gained a 60% market share of hummus in the United States, and, through its co-ownership and sales channels with PepsiCo, was close to $1 billion in annual sales. To parallel the rising consumer demand for hummus, American farmers have increased their production of chickpeas four-fold since 2009, harvesting more than in 2015, up from about in 2009.\n\nDuring the run-up to the 2008 U.S. presidential election, Sabra commissioned sculptor Kirk Rademaker to create busts of candidates John McCain, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton out of 100 pounds of hummus.\n\nSabra launched its first U.S. national advertising campaign in March 2009, with the StrawberryFrog ad agency. In May 2009, the company began a series of promotional events in which it recreated \"Mediterranean villages\" in 11 major U.S. cities. By 2015, Sabra had established greater presence among American and Canadian consumers by marketing a \"cultural movement\" based on a desire for people to experience hummus as an old world food with new tastes close to what they already knew.\n\nUntil 2010, the Strauss Group stated on their English-language website that the company donates food packages to the Golani Brigade of the Israel Defense Forces. Activists in the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign have called for boycotts of Sabra products over the donations. Student groups at DePaul University, Princeton University, and the University of Ottawa campaigned unsuccessfully to have their schools switch to alternate brands.\n\nOn 8 April 2015, Sabra recalled 30,000 cases of its classic hummus after a tub in Michigan tested positive for \"Listeria\". Inspectors with the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (MDARD) learned of the possible contamination by \"L. monocytogenes\" after routine inspections on March 30th at a Kroger in Port Huron, according to MDARD spokeswoman Jennifer Holton.\n\nOn 19 November 2016, Sabra voluntarily recalled multiple hummus varieties across the U.S. after \"Listeria\" was discovered at one of its manufacturing plants, though the company stated the bacteria had not been found in any of its actual products.\n\n"}
{"id": "8490658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8490658", "title": "Section 34 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms", "text": "Section 34 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\n\nSection 34 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" is the last section of Canada's Charter of Rights, which is entrenched in the \"Constitution Act, 1982\". Section 34 provides guidance for the legal citation of the \"Charter\".\n\nThe section has been interpreted by Canadian writers, who have analyzed both its intention and its meaning. Because the section affirms the name of the \"Charter\" and thus entrenches it in the \"Constitution Act\", it came into focus in 1994 when a Member of Parliament (MP) proposed to change the name of the \"Charter\".\n\nUnder the heading \"Citation,\" the section reads:\n\nSection 34, as part of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\", came into force on April 17, 1982. According to the government of Canada, section 34's function \"simply\" relates to citation. The section clarifies that the first 34 sections of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\" may be collectively called the \"\"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\",\" which is an \"official name.\" This would be the name of the English version. The French version of section 34 states \"Titre de la présente partie: \"Charte canadienne des droits et libertés\".\"\n\nIn 1982, constitutional scholar Peter Hogg suggested that the section also clarifies the size and scope of the \"Charter.\" Only section 34 and the sections that come before it compose the \"Charter\". The next sections of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\", including section 35 (which affirms Aboriginal rights) and section 36 (which affirms equalization payments), are thus not Charter rights. This is significant, since section 1 of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\" allows for limits on \"Charter\" rights, so it cannot apply to sections 35 or 36. However, this also means that a \"judicial remedy\" under section 24 of the Act is not available for sections 35 or 36, since section 24 refers only to the \"Charter\".\n\nCanadian poet George Elliott Clarke once analyzed section 34, calling it \"bland legalese.\" He wrote it was \"reassuring\" because it was dull, signalling neither fear nor excitement. Thus, it seemed to imply the \"Charter of Rights\" was not a radical constitutional change, despite the fact that it was potentially revolutionary for a constitutional monarchy. In considering the name \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms,\" Clarke felt the first word, \"Canadian,\" hinted at Canadian nationalism. He then compared this to the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen and the United States Bill of Rights, saying that those documents were written by men who had just emerged from conflict and still remembered it, and thus Canada could be duller. However, he noted there was some drama in the \"Charter\" in that it was written when there was a threat of Quebec separatism, and section 27 (multiculturalism), section 25 (Aboriginal rights), and section 15(2) (affirmative action) of the \"Charter\" could change the country.\n\nIn 1994, the House of Commons of Canada debated changing the name of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" to the \"Canadian Charter of Rights, Freedoms and Responsibilities\". As Parliamentary Secretary Russell MacLellan pointed out, this would have to be done through a constitutional amendment, particularly to section 34, since section 34 \"establishes the charter's title. The charter's title is thus part of the Constitution.\" MacLellan believed the amending formula needed would be the one requiring the support of seven provincial governments representing at least half of Canada's population. Edmonton Southwest MP Ian McClelland had suggested the change, believing it to be necessary because \"I felt we were becoming a nation of entitlement.\" MacLellan replied that \"The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms is and aspires to be a statement by Canadians about the rights and freedoms which we as Canadians deeply value in our democratic society.\" MacLellan added that section 1 implied a need for responsibilities, so \"It is not necessary to change the title of this charter to emphasize the integral relationship between the individual's rights and his or her responsibility to the rest of society.\"\n"}
{"id": "891802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=891802", "title": "Section 8 (military)", "text": "Section 8 (military)\n\nSection 8 is a category of discharge from the United States military, used for a service member judged mentally unfit for service. Section 8 was often given to homosexuals, bisexuals, cross-dressers and transgender people.\n\nThe term Section 8 eventually came to mean any service member given such a discharge or behaving as if deserving such a discharge, as in the expression, \"he's a Section 8\". The term comes from Section VIII of the World War II-era United States Army Regulation 615-360, which provided for the discharge of those deemed unfit for military service.\n\nSection 8 discharge was often given to homosexuals, bisexuals, cross-dressers and transgender people as they were deemed mentally unfit to serve in the military. A Section 8 discharge often made it dificult for people to find work in civilian life and did not allow veterans benefits.\n\nDischarge under Section 8 is no longer practiced, as medical discharges for psychological/psychiatric reasons are now covered by a number of regulations. In the Army, such discharges are handled under the provisions of AR 635-200, Active Duty Enlisted Administrative Separations. Chapter 5, paragraph 13 governs the separation of personnel medically diagnosed with a personality disorder.\n\nSection 8 became a household phrase when used in the 1970s TV series \"M*A*S*H\", in which the character Corporal Klinger was continually seeking one (until he eventually abandoned his efforts). His preferred method of doing so was cross-dressing. In the 2003 movie \"Basic\", a DEA agent Tom Hardy (played by John Travolta) investigates a group of apparently insane mercenary Rangers turned drug dealers calling themselves Section 8.\n\n"}
{"id": "10339965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10339965", "title": "Sword Verse", "text": "Sword Verse\n\nThe Sword Verse (\"ayat as-sayf\") is the fifth verse of the ninth sura (or \"Surat at-Tawbah\" ) of the Qur'an (also written as 9:5). It is a Qur'anic verse widely cited by critics of Islam to suggest the faith promotes violence against \"pagans\" (\"idolators\", \"mushrikun\"), by isolating the portion of the verse \"fight and slay the Pagans wherever ye find them\" ( ; trans. Abdullah Yusuf Ali). The next immediate verse (often excluded from quotes) appears to present a conditional reprieve within the statement: \"if any of the idolaters seeks of thee protection, grant him protection till he hears the words of God; then do thou convey him to his place of security -- that, because they are a people who do not know.\"\n\nQur’anic exegetes al-Baydawi and al-Alusi explain that it refers to those pagan Arabs who violated their peace treaties by waging war against the Muslims.\n\nGiving context to the verse are the first seven verses of \"Surat at-Tawbah\", with the number of the verse given after, not before, the verse (the \"Sword Verse\" being the fifth):\n\nAccording to several mainstream Islamic scholars, the verse relates to a specific event in Islamic history -- namely that Arabian pagans made and broke a covenant with Arabic Muslims. The verses immediately preceding and following 9:5, 9:4 and 9:6, make the context very clear: Only those pagans who broke the covenant were subject to violent repercussions, so that any pagans who honoured the covenant or repented their betrayal were to be spared. Commentating on the following verse, 9:6, Asma Afsaruddin brings the position of different early commentators, and the overall direction taken is that it concerns the Arab polytheists and doesn't translate into indiscriminate killing: Mujāhid said that this verse guarantees the safety of people in general (insān) who came to listen to the Prophet recite from the Qur’ān until they had returned to the place of refuge whence they came.\n\nThe Tanwīr al-miqbās says that the verse commands the Prophet to grant safe conduct to anyone from among the polytheists who asks for it, so that he may hear the recitation of the speech of God. If he does not believe (sc. embrace Islam), then he is to be granted safe passage back to his land (waṭanahu). This is so because they are a people ignorant of the commandments of God and His oneness.\n\nHūd b. Muḥakkam similarly comments that the polytheist who requests safe conduct from Muslims in order to listen to the word of God is to be so granted and returned unharmed to his place of origin, whether he embraces Islam or not. This was the view of Mujāhid, for example. Al-Kalbî quoted as saying that the verse referred instead to a group of polytheists who wished to renew their pact with Muḥammad after the sacred months had passed. When Muḥammad asked them to profess Islam, off er prayers, and pay the zakāt , they refused, and the Prophet let them return safely to their homes. Ibn Muḥakkam further notes that al-Ḥasan al-Basrī had remarked thus on the status of this verse: “It is valid and unabrogated (muḥkama) until the Day of Judgment.”\n\nAl-Qummî affirms briefly that this verse asks Muslims to recite the Qur’ān to the polytheist, explain it to him, and not show him any opposition until he returns safely. It is worth noting that Furāt regards Qur’ān 9:6 as abrogating Qur’ān 9:5 and thus overriding the seemingly blanket injunction concerning the polytheists contained in the latter verse. In this he agrees with many of his predecessors that the polytheist who wishes for safe conduct in order to listen to the word of God should be so granted and then peacefully escorted back to his home, regardless of whether he had embraced Islam or not. \n\nAl-Ṭabarî says that in this verse God counsels Muḥammad, “If someone from among the polytheists (al-mushrikīn)—those whom I have commanded that you fight and slay after the passage of the sacred months—were to ask you, O Muḥammad, for safe conduct in order to listen to the word of God, then grant this protection to him so that he may hear the word of God and you may recite it to him.” Such an individual, according to the verse, is to be subsequently escorted back to his place of safety even if he rejects Islam and fails to believe after the Prophet’s recitation of the Qur’ān before him. Scholars in the past who have agreed with this general interpretation include Ibn Isḥāq, al-Suddî, and Mujāhid (as above).\n\nIn the same breath, still on 9:6, bringing later scholars and Qur'anic commentators, she mentions that \"in his similarly brief commentary, al-Zamakhsharî explains this verse quite literally—that if one of the polytheists, with whom no pact (mīthāq) exists, were to request safe conduct from the Muslims in order to listen to the Qur’ān, then he should be granted it so that he may reflect upon God’s words. Afterward, he is to be escorted back to his home where he feels safe. This, al-Zamakhsharî says, is established practice for all time.\" Concerning the influential Fakhr al-Din al-Razi, \"unlike previous exegetes, al-Rāzī further comments that this verse indicates that imitation of precedent (al-taqlīd) is not sufficient in religion, and that critical inquiry (al-nazar) and the seeking of proofs (al-istidlāl) are indispensable requirements within religion. If emulation of precedent were enough, he argues, then this verse would not have granted a respite to this unbeliever, and he would have been merely given a choice between professing his belief [in Islam] or death. As this did not occur, it confi rms that Muslims are required to off er safe conduct to such a person and thereby assuage his fears and allow him the opportunity to deliberate upon the proofs of religion.\" While for al-Qurtubi, the famous Andalusian scholar, he \"dismisses as invalid the views of those who say that this verse’s injunction was valid only for the four months mentioned in the preceding verse. On the basis of the occasion of revelation cited by Sa‘īd b. Jubayr (as previously discussed) and on the authority of ‘Alī b. Abī Ṭālib, al-Qurṭubī concludes that this verse is muḥkam and valid for all time.\"\n\nAs per Muhammad Abdel-Haleem, translator of the Qur'an, while contextualizing 9:5 and bringing the wider sequential narrative: It was these hardened polytheists in Arabia, who would accept nothing other than the expulsion of the Muslims or their reversion to paganism, and who repeatedly broke their treaties, that the Muslims were ordered to treat in the same way – to fight them or expel them.\n\nEven with such an enemy Muslims were not simply ordered to pounce on them and reciprocate by breaking the treaty themselves; instead, an ultimatum was issued, giving the enemy notice, that after the four sacred months mentioned in 9:5 above, the Muslims would wage war on them. The main clause of the sentence ‘kill the polytheists’ is singled out by some Western scholars to represent the Islamic attitude to war; even some Muslims take this view and allege that this verse abrogated other verses on war. This is pure fantasy, isolating and decontextualising a small part of a sentence. The full picture is given in 9:1–15, which gives many reasons for the order to fight such polytheists. They continuously broke their agreements and aided others against the Muslims, they started hostilities against the Muslims, barred others from becoming Muslims, expelled Muslims from the Holy Mosque and even from their own homes. At least eight times the passage mentions their misdeeds against the Muslims. Consistent with restrictions on war elsewhere in the Qur’an, the immediate context of this ‘Sword Verse’ exempts such polytheists as do not break their agreements and who keep the peace with the Muslims (9:7). It orders that those enemies seeking safe conduct should be protected and delivered to the place of safety they seek (9:6). The whole of this context to v.5, with all its restrictions, is ignored by those who simply isolate one part of a sentence to build their theory of war in Islam on what is termed ‘The Sword Verse’ even when the word ‘sword’ does not occur anywhere in the Qur’an.\n\nAccording to Maher Hathout: This verse was revealed towards the end of the revelation period and relates to a limited context. Hostilities were frozen for a three-month period during which the Arabs pledged not to wage war. Prophet Muhammad was inspired to use this period to encourage the combatants to join the Muslim ranks or, if they chose, to leave the area that was under Muslims rule; however, if they were to resume hostilities, then the Muslims would fight back until victorious. One is inspired to note that even in this context of war, the verse concludes by emphasizing the divine attributes of mercy and forgiveness. To minimize hostilities, the Qur'an ordered Muslims to grant asylum to anyone, even an enemy, who sought refuge. Asylum would be granted according to the customs of chivalry; the person would be told the message of the Qur'an but not coerced into accepting that message. Thereafter, he or she would be escorted to safety regardless of his or her religion. (9:6).\n\nPatricia Crone states that the verse is directed against a particular group accused of oath-breaking and aggression and excepts those polytheists who remained faithful. Crone states that this verse seems to be based on the same above-mentioned rules. Here also it is stressed that one must cease fighting when the enemy does.\n\nRejecting the idea of abrogation (naskh), the influential Islamic reformist scholar Muhammad Abduh \"citing the views of al-Suyūṭī, ‘Abduh argues that in the specific historical situation with which the verse is concerned—with its references to the passage of the four sacred months and the pagan Meccans—other verses in the Qur’ān advocating forgiveness and nonviolence were not abrogated by it, but rather placed in temporary abeyance or suspension (laysa naskhan bal huwa min qism al-mansa’) in that specific historical circumstance.\" Another modern Qur'anic scholar, Muhammad Asad, also states that the permission to fight and kill was restricted to specific tribes already at war with the Muslims who had breached their peace agreements and attacked them first. \n\nThe founder of the Muslim Brotherhood, Hassan al-Banna, held the same views, that \"the sword verse was directed only at polytheists and not at the People of the Book\", as, in his words, it contradicted Qur'anic verses “which\ndecree inviting to Islam with wisdom and good counsel and attribute to God the final adjudication of differences on the Day of Judgment.” Generally attached to the MB, at least informally, Yusuf al-Qaradawi too believes that 9:5 is contextual.\n\nThe late authoritative Syrian scholar, Mohamed Said Ramadan Al-Bouti, followed the same thinking, as he \"comments that if Qur’ān 9:5 is understood to command the fighting of polytheists until their death or their acceptance of Islam, then such a command is countermanded by the very next verse that exhorts Muslims to offer refuge and safe conduct to polytheists while they are in their state of polytheism. He dismisses as irresponsibly arbitrary the view of those who suggest that Qur’ān 9:5 abrogates Qur’ān 9:6; this goes against the usual rule of abrogation that a later verse may supersede an earlier verse, and he stresses that their understanding of Qur’ān 9:5 contradicts other, more numerous verses of the Qur’ān that were later revelations and the praxis of the Companions.\"\n\nA similar interpretation of the verse as limited to defensive warfare is also found in Ahmadiyya literature, notably in Muhammad Ali's 1936 \"The Religion of Islam\". In The English Commentary of the Holy Quran, which is a collective commentary supervised by the fourth caliph of the Ahmadis, Mirza Tahir Ahmad, and reuniting views of their second caliph, Mirza Basheer-ud-Din Mahmood Ahmad, as well as well-known Ahmadi scholars like Mirza Bashir Ahmad, Maulvi Sher Ali and Malik Ghulam Farid, concerning 9:5 we can read:\n\nTo wage war after the expiry of the four forbidden months did not apply to all idolaters without exception but was directed only against such avowed enemies of Islam as had themselves started hostilities against Islam and had broker their plighted word and plotted to expel de Holy Prophet from the city. The reason for this ultimate is given in the following few verses, viz. 9:8-13. As for those idolaters who had not been guilty of faithlessness and treachery, they were to be protected (see 9:4, 7). It is highly regrettable, however, that, divorcing this commandment from its context, some critics have made this verse the basis for an attack against Islam, alleging that it inculcates the destruction of all non-Muslims. The Quran and history belie that baseless allegation.\n\n"}
{"id": "49785357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49785357", "title": "The Mercoid Cases", "text": "The Mercoid Cases\n\nThe Mercoid cases—\"Mercoid Corp. v. Mid-Continent Investment Co.\", 320 U.S. 661 (1944), and \"Mercoid Corp. v. Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Co.\", 320 U.S. 680 (1944)—are 1944 patent tie-in misuse and antitrust decisions of the United States Supreme Court. These companion cases are said to have reached the \"high-water mark of the patent misuse doctrine.\" The Court substantially limited the contributory infringement doctrine by holding unlawful tie-ins of \"non-staple\" unpatented articles that were specially adapted only for use in practicing a patent, and the Court observed: \"The result of this decision, together with those which have preceded it, is to limit substantially the doctrine of contributory infringement. What residuum may be left we need not stop to consider.\" The Court also suggested that an attempt to extend the reach of a patent beyond its claims could or would violate the antitrust laws: \"The legality of any attempt to bring unpatented goods within the protection of the patent is measured by the antitrust laws, not by the patent law.\"\n\nIn response to the \"Mercoid\" cases, the patent bar eventually persuaded Congress to limit the sweep of these rulings by enacting sections 271(c) and (d) of the patent code in 1952. Those provisions rolled back to some extent the law on contributory infringement and tie-ins. Subsection (c) defined unlawful contributory infringement as the knowing sale of a non-staple product that is a material part of the invention and is specially adapted for the infringement of the patent—essentially, products without any use except infringement. Subsection (d) made it not misuse or illegal extension of patent rights for a patentee to derive revenue from what would be contributory infringement. The Supreme Court in 1980 characterized this legislation limiting \"Mercoid\" as a compromise between the doctrines of misuse and contributory infringement.\n\nWalter M. Cross invented a hot-air furnace system with three main elements: (1) a motor driven stoker for feeding fuel to the combustion chamber of a furnace, (2) a room thermostatic switch for controlling the feeding of fuel, and (3) a combustion stoker switch to prevent the fire's going out in warm weather not requiring domestic heating. The room thermostat the supply of heat, or discontinues its supply, by closing or opening the circuit to the stoker motor at the required temperatures. The combustion stoker switch, or holdfire control, responds to a low temperature in the furnace by causing the stoker to feed fuel so as to prevent the furnace fire from going out. The control of the combustion stoker switch is effective in mild weather when the room thermostat may not call for heat for a considerable period.\n\nEdward E. Freeman invented a system to control a hot air furnace that uses three thermostatic switches for its operation. A room thermostat starts the stoker. Another thermostat (or limit switch) opens the stoker circuit when the air in the furnace reaches a predetermined temperature, irrespective of the fact that the room thermostat may still call for heat. This second thermostat operates to prevent unsafe conditions due to overheating. The third thermostat is also in the furnace. It controls a fan which forces hot air from the furnace to the rooms. It does not permit the fan to start until the air in the furnace reaches a specified degree of heat. But, at that point, it starts the fan, which continues to run, even though the limit switch has stopped the stoker, so long as the furnace is hot and the room thermostat calls for heat. The patent was on the combination patent of three thermostatic switches, not on any of the switches alone and not on the combination of the fan switch and the limit switch.\n\nThe Cross patent was assigned to Mid-Continent, subject to a prior exclusive license to Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Company (Honeywell) in the field of coal stokers. It was agreed that the patent royalty Honeywell would pay would be based on its sales of a combustion stoker control unit: an automatic electric switch responsive to temperatures of combustion gases or boiler water produced by an automatic coal fed stoker. Honeywell granted a sub-license to Detroit Lubricator Co. to make and sell combustion stoker switches and related apparatus for practicing the Cross invention. Mid-Continent, the patent owner, made no heating equipment but derived its revenue from royalties on the combustion stoker switch devices that Honeywell and Detroit Lubricator. Honeywell sent a letter to the trade advising it of the exclusive license, explaining that the patent rights cover a system involving the controls and the stoker in combination and not the controls alone, and offering a license on the entire system to purchasers of one of Honeywell's control units. Later, Mid-Continent sent a letter to the trade advising that it owned the patent rights and that the sale of equipment for practicing the patented invention was infringement unless licensed. Mid-Continent wrote a customer of Mercoid that it had learned that the customer was purchasing controls from a company (i.e., Mercoid) not licensed by Mid-Continent to sell controls; and that Mid-Continent wished to make this a formal notification that it considered the sale and use of controls for this purpose an infringement of its patent.\n\nThe Freeman patent was assigned to Honeywell, which licensed five of its manufacturing competitors. The licenses grant a nonexclusive right to make, use, and sell a \"combination furnace control\" which is defined as a thermostatic switch usable for a Freeman installation and designed in one unit to control the fan and limit circuits. Royalty payments to Honeywell are based on the sales of the combination furnace controls, which are not patented as such (the system that includes them is patented) but have no use except in practicing the patent. The court of appeals said that the combination furnace control provides \"the sequence of operations which is the precise essence of Freeman's advance in the art,\" in that it \"accomplish[es] the sequence of operations of the Freeman patent\" and \"distinguish[ed] the invention\" from the prior art.\nEach licensee was required to provide a notice to the effect that purchasing the control confers a license for one installation of the Freeman heating system. Minneapolis-Honeywell tried on several occasions to induce Mercoid to take a license but was unsuccessful.\n\nIn November 1932, Mid-Continent mailed Mercoid a formal notice of infringement of the Cross patent. In August 1935, Mid-Continent brought suit against E.O. Smith of Carthage, Missouri, for infringement of the Cross patent by installing in his home a heating system including controls manufactured by Mercoid. Mercoid provided the defense of Smith but was not made a party to the suit. Mid-Continent prevailed against Smith. In September 1940, Mid-Continent sued Mercoid in Chicago federal district court for contributory infringement of the Cross patent. Mercoid, Mid-Continent, and Honeywell did not make heating systems; they sold thermostatic switches and related products. On Mercoid's motion, the court made Honeywell an involuntary co-plaintiff.\n\nThe district court found that Honeywell and Mid-Continent \"have in collusion conspired with each other in an attempt to monopolize the sale of combustion stoker switches, stoker controls or low limit controls, not covered by the Cross [patent].\" It also held that the eight year delay between the 1932 notice and the 1940 suit constituted laches precluding the action. The court concluded that the method of doing business was \"the practical equivalent of granting a written license with the condition that the patented system may be practiced only with combustion stoker switches purchased from\" licensees, thus running afoul of \"Carbice\" and \"Leitch\". In addition to being patent misuse, the plaintiffs' conduct violated the antitrust law and made Mercoid entitled to an injunction against it.\n\nThe court ordered that the complaint should be dismissed, and enjoined each plaintiff from bringing suit for contributory infringement of the patent against Mercoid's customers, and from directly or indirectly threatening its customers with suit for such infringement of the patent, or in any manner interfering with Mercoid's business by use of the patent. On the antitrust claim, the court denied damages but ordered a perpetual injunction against both plaintiffs, their officers and agents, both individually and collectively, from doing the following things:\n\nIn June 1940 Mercoid sued Honeywell and Mid-Continent in Chicago federal district court for a declaratory judgment that its fan and limit controls did not infringe or contribute to the infringement of Honeywell's Freeman patent, that the patent was invalid, and that Honeywell was restraining trade in violation of the antitrust laws. Honeywell counterclaimed and sued for patent infringement. The district court held the patent not shown invalid but misused. The court explained the misuse:\n\n[I]t must be held that Minneapolis-Honeywell has been so using its patent as to tend to create a monopoly in an unpatented device. Minneapolis-Honeywell has been licensing others and has offered to license Mercoid to manufacture, use and sell a single device which embodies within itself two elements of the Freeman patent, namely, the two thermostats which are placed in the furnace hood, one being the fan switch and the other being the limit switch. This device, embodying these two elements, is . . . an unpatented device. The Freeman patent is not a patent on either the fan switch or the limit switch or both of them. It is a patent on a system of furnace control, which requires three thermostats for its operation. It happens that two of those thermostats are a fan switch and a limit switch. The court is of the opinion that it follows, from what has been said, that both complaints, that of Mercoid and that of Minneapolis-Honeywell, must be dismissed for want of equity.\n\nAppeals were taken to the Seventh Circuit, which overturned the district courts' judgments.\n\nIn one case, involving the Cross patent, the court of appeals reversed the rulings as to laches and contributory infringement. It held that Mercoid's conduct in making and selling a device that had no use except in practicing the Cross patent, and providing instructions on how to use the device to carry out the invention, was contributory infringement. By the same token, the court said, \"We see nothing here that would violate the antitrust laws or that would constitute unfair competition,\" and it reversed the district court's ruling.\n\nIn the other case, involving the Freeman patent, the court of appeals held that the principle of \"Morton Salt Co. v. G.S. Suppiger Co.\" did not apply and the district court erroneously based its ruling on that case. The \"Morton\" case involved a patented mechanism for depositing salt tablets:\n\nThe patent was on the mechanism, not on the salt nor on its configuration. Salt is an article of commerce, quite generally used from time immemorial. It is unpatented and is not an element of the patent upon which Morton relied. However, Morton sought to compel the purchasers of its patented mechanism to use only the salt purchased from it, which was in no sense a part of the patent.\n\nIn contrast, the Freeman patent covers a furnace control system having a combustion control apparatus as an element of the claimed system. The court said these facts were critical:\n\n[The accused device] provides for the sequence of operations which is the precise essence of Freeman's advance in the art. With each [device], Mercoid provides certain wiring diagrams for installation. The accused device has no other use than for accomplishing the sequence of operations of the Freeman patent.\n\nThe court concluded, \"The patent laws permit such conduct and the Anti-Trust laws do not forbid it.\"\n\nJustice William O. Douglas delivered the opinion of the majority of the Court. Justice Owen J. Roberts, joined by Justice Stanley Forman Reed, dissented. Justice Felix Frankfurter dissented separately, as did Justice Robert H. Jackson. Justice Hugo Black, joined by Justice Frank Murphy wrote a concurring opinion taking issue with the opinion that Justice Frankfurter filed.\n\nJustice Douglas began the majority opinion with the assumptions that the Cross patent was valid and that Mercoid knowingly sold combustion stoker switches for use in practicing the invention claimed in the Cross combination patent.\n\nBut ever since the Court in \"Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co.\" overruled \"Henry v. A.B. Dick Co.\", \"this Court has consistently held that the owner of a patent may not employ it to secure a limited monopoly of an unpatented material used in applying the invention.\" For example: \"Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Development Corp.\", \"Leitch Manufacturing Co. v. Barber Co.\", \"Morton Salt Co. v. G.S. Suppiger Co.\", and \"B.B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis\". The reason that the Court has repeatedly so held is that \"to allow such suits would be to extend the aid of a court of equity in expanding the patent beyond the legitimate scope of its monopoly.\"\n\nWhile those cases all involved tie-ins on supplies used in practicing the patented invention, the Court could \"see no difference in principle\" when the tied item was a component of the patented structure (a claimed element of a patented combination):\n\nThe grant of a patent is the grant of a special privilege \"to promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts.\" Const., Art. I, § 8. It carries, of course, a right to be free from competition in the practice of the invention. But the limits of the patent are narrowly and strictly confined to the precise terms of the grant. It is the public interest which is dominant in the patent system. It is the protection of the public in a system of free enterprise which , , , denies to the patentee after issuance [of the patent] the power to use it in such a way as to acquire a monopoly which is not plainly within the terms of the grant. The necessities or convenience of the patentee do not justify any use of the monopoly of the patent to create another monopoly. The fact that the patentee has the power to refuse a license does not enable him to enlarge the monopoly of the patent by the expedient of attaching conditions to its use. The method by which the monopoly is sought to be extended is immaterial. The patent is a privilege. But it is a privilege which is conditioned by a public purpose. It results from invention, and is limited to the invention which it defines. When the patentee ties something else to his invention, he acts only by virtue of his right as the owner of property to make contracts concerning it and not otherwise. He then is subject to all the limitations upon that right which the general law imposes upon such contracts. . . . [If patent ownership could justify tie-ins] the patent would be diverted from its statutory purpose and become a ready instrument for economic control in domains where the antitrust acts or other laws not the patent statutes define the public policy.\n\nReturning to the patentee's argument that the stoker switch was central to the invention, the Court insisted that it did not matter:\n\nThat result may not be obviated in the present case by calling the combustion stoker switch the \"heart of the invention\" or the \"advance in the art.\" The patent is for a combination only. Since none of the separate elements of the combination is claimed as the invention, none of them when dealt with separately is protected by the patent monopoly. Whether the parts are new or old, the combination is the invention and it is distinct from any of them. If a limited monopoly over the combustion stoker switch were allowed, it would not be a monopoly accorded inventive genius by the patent laws, but a monopoly born of a commercial desire to avoid the rigors of competition fostered by the antitrust laws. If such an expansion of the patent monopoly could be effected by contract, the integrity of the patent system would be seriously compromised.\nThe Court acknowledged that the 1909 decision in \"Leeds & Catlin v. Victor Talking Machine Co. (No. 2)\" was authority for the conclusion that \"he who sells an unpatented part of a combination patent for use in the assembled machine may be guilty of contributory infringement.\" In that case involving a phonograph record and record player, the Court extended patent protection to the unpatented phonograph record, which was an unpatented part of the patented combination. But that ruling \"is in substance inconsistent with the view which we have expressed in this case.\" Accordingly, the rule in that case \"must no longer prevail against the defense that a combination patent is being used to protect an unpatented part from competition.\" To be sure, Honeywell and Mid-Continent could have prevailed against Mercoid on a charge of contributory infringement and secured an injunction \"had they not misused the patent for the purpose of monopolizing unpatented material.\" But they did, and \"[w]here there is a collision between the principle of the \"Carbice\" case and the conventional rules governing either direct or contributory infringement, the former prevails.\"\n\nThe Court then announced the controversial summary of it holding that later raised a storm of opposition that led to an amendment (see below) of the patent laws limiting the \"Mercoid\" ruling:\n\nThe result of this decision, together with those which have preceded it, is to limit substantially the doctrine of contributory infringement. What residuum may be left we need not stop to consider. It is sufficient to say that, in whatever posture the issue may be tendered, courts of equity will withhold relief where the patentee and those claiming under him are using the patent privilege contrary to the public interest.\n\nFinally, the Court turned to the issues of\"res judicata\" and Mercoid's antitrust counterclaim, on which several justices dissented.\n\nMercoid knew of Mid-Continent's actions and the license agreement prior to 1935 when the earlier \"Smith\" suit involving the validity of the Cross patent occurred, and in which Mercoid defended its customer Smith. The contention therefore was that the doctrine of \"res judicata\" \"binds Mercoid as respects issues which were actually litigated and all issues which might have been raised in that earlier suit.\" As to \"res judicata\", the Court said that Honeywell and Mid-Continent:\n\nask the equity court for an injunction against infringement by petitioner of the patent in question, and for an accounting. Should such a decree be entered, the Court would be placing its imprimatur on a scheme which involves a misuse of the patent privilege and a violation of the antitrust laws. It would aid in the consummation of a conspiracy to expand a patent beyond its legitimate scope. But patentees and licensees cannot secure aid from the court to bring such an event to pass, \"unless it is in accordance with policy to grant that help.\" And the determination of that policy is not \"at the mercy\" of the parties nor dependent on the usual rules governing the settlement of private litigation. Courts of equity may, and frequently do, go much farther both to give and withhold relief in furtherance of the public interest than they are accustomed to go when only private interests are involved. . . . The parties cannot foreclose the courts from the exercise of that discretion by the failure to interpose the same defense in an earlier litigation.\n\nThe antitrust counterclaim was \"more than a defense; it is a separate statutory cause of action.\" Therefore, the antitrust case is governed by the principle that, \"where the second cause of action between the parties is upon a different claim, the prior judgment is \"res judicata\" not as to issues which might have been tendered, but \"only as to those matters in issue or points controverted upon the determination of which the finding or verdict was rendered.\" That relief should be considered on the remand.\n\nJustice Roberts, joined by Justice Reed, took the position that the \"Leeds & Catlin\" case should be considered good law, so that there was no misuse here. He also believed that the case did not call for an exception to the usual rukes of \"res judicata\": \"We are now told that a misconstruction of the patent law by a licensor is so violent and flagrant a flouting of the public interest that a court of equity must hold its hand for the benefit of a defendant whenever he chooses to invoke that interest for his private benefit, though he has failed to make the defense in an earlier litigation and stands of record an infringer.\" If a wrong against the public has been perpetrated, he said, let the Government sue.\n\nJustice Frankfurter agreed with the Court's extension of the \"Carbice\" rule to cases in which \"the unpatented appliance was not for common use, but was . . . adapted for the practice of the invention,\" but only so long as it was not shown that the item (such as the stoker switch) was not \"made for the purpose, and with the intent, of their being combined by a party having no right to combine them.\" The doctrine of contributory infringement, thus understood, is a proper \"expression both of law and morals.\" He then said that the majority opinion would by its unnecessary dicta embarrass litigants and lower courts \"by gratuitous innuendos against a principle of the law which, within its proper bounds, is accredited by legal history as well as ethics.\" He also agreed with Justice Roberts that \"res judicata\" calls for affirmance.\n\nJustice Jackson agreed with the other dissenters about \"res judicata\" but he agreed with the majority at to contributory infringement and misuse. This patent, he said, \"covers a combination—a system—a sequence—which is said to be new, although every element and factor in it is old and unpatentable. Thus, we have an abstract right in an abstruse relationship between things in which individually there is no right—a legal concept which either is very profound or almost unintelligible, I cannot be quite sure which.\" He recognized that \"[i]f the patentee may not exclude competitors from making and vending strategic unpatented elements, such as the thermostat, adapted to use in the combination, the patented system is so vulnerable to competition as to be almost worthless. On the other hand, if he may prohibit such competition, his system patent gathers up into its monopoly devices long known to the art, and hence not themselves subject to any patent.\" He then referred to Justice Frankfurter's proposals:\n\nIt is suggested that such a patent should protect the patentee at least against one who knowingly and intentionally builds a device for use in the combination and vends it for that purpose. That is what appears to have been done here. As to ethics, the parties seem to me as much on a parity as the pot and the kettle. But want of knowledge or innocent intent is not ordinarily available to diminish patent protection. I do not see how intent can make infringement of what otherwise is not. The less legal rights depend on someone's state of mind, the better.\n\nHe concluded:\n\nThe practical issue is whether we will leave such a combination patent with little value indeed, or whether we will give it value by projecting its economic effects to elements not by themselves a part of its legal monopoly. In these circumstances, I think we should protect the patent owner in the enjoyment of just what he has been granted—an abstract right in an abstruse combination—worth whatever such a totality may be worth. I see no constitutional or statutory authority for giving it additional value by bringing into its monopoly all or any of the unpatentable parts.\n\nJustice Black, joined by Justice Murphy, concurred specially \"to add a few remarks in order that silence may not be understood as acquiescence in the views expressed in the dissenting opinion\" of Justice Frankfurter. First, he said, the Court's ruling involved no dicta; what was said was necessary to resolve the case. More important, he condemned the dissent's \"error of interpreting legislative enactments on the basis of a court's preconceived views on 'morals' and 'ethics.' \" Nothing in the federal patent statute refers to contributory infringement. The basis of the dissent's arguments is \"the writer's personal views on 'morals' and 'ethics.' \":\n\n[None of that] throws enough light on the patent statutes to justify its use in construing these statutes as creating, in addition to a right of recovery for infringement, a more expansive right judicially characterized as a \"formula\" of \"contributory infringement.\" And for judges to rest their interpretation of statutes on nothing but their own conceptions of \"morals\" and \"ethics\" is, to say the least, dangerous business.\n\nIf the present case compelled consideration of the morals and ethics of contributory infringement, I should be most reluctant to conclude that the scales of moral value are weighted against the right of producers to sell their unpatented goods in a free market. At least since Adam Smith wrote, unhampered competition has not generally been considered immoral. While there have been objections to the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, few if any of the objectors have questioned its morality.\n\nIt has long been recognized that a socially undesirable practice may seek acceptance under the guise of conventional moral symbols. And repeated judicial assertion that a bad practice is hallowed by morals may, if unchallenged, help it to receive the acceptance which it seeks. With this in mind, I wish to make explicit my protest against talking about the judicial doctrine of \"contributory infringement\" as though it were entitled to the same respect as a universally recognized moral truth.\n\nAs in the preceding case, Justice Douglas delivered the opinion of the Court. Justices Roberts, Reed, Frankfurter, and Jackson concurred in the result on the authority of \"Morton Salt Co. v. G.S. Suppiger Co.\"\n\nThe Court took issue with the Seventh Circuit's basing its reversal of the district court because the combustion control switch as the heart of the invention. The Court stated:\n\nThe fact that an unpatented part of a combination patent may distinguish the invention does not draw to it the privileges of a patent. That may be done only in the manner provided by law. However worthy it may be, however essential to the patent, an unpatented part of a combination patent is no more entitled to monopolistic protection than any other unpatented device. For, as we pointed out in \"Mercoid Corp. v. Mid-Continent Investment Co.\", a patent on a combination is a patent on the assembled or functioning whole, not on the separate parts. The legality of any attempt to bring unpatented goods within the protection of the patent is measured by the antitrust laws, not by the patent law.\n\nAccordingly, the \"effort here made to control competition in this unpatented device plainly violates the antitrust laws,\" Mercoid is entitled to antitrust relief, and Honeywell \"may not obtain from a court of equity any decree which directly or indirectly helps it to subvert the public policy which underlies the grant of its patent.\"\n\nIt was said that the \"Mercoid\" cases \"effectively eliminated a patent holder's ability to prevent a competitor from making and selling a component that had no use other than as part of a patented invention,\" and that as a result, \"Congress stepped in to breathe new life into the doctrine of contributory infringement and to push back the borders of the patent misuse doctrine.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court, in \"Dawson Chemical Co. v. Rohm & Haas Co.\", analyzed the legislative history of the 1952 amendment that addressed this issue in the new sections 271(c) and (d) of the patent law. Referring to the \"Mercoid\" cases, the Court said that they \"definitely held that any attempt to control the market for unpatented goods would constitute patent misuse, even if those goods had no use outside a patented invention.\" The \"Dawson\" Court observed that the series of decisions leading up to the\n\"Mercoid\" cases \"involved undoing the damage thought to have been done by \"A.B. Dick\".\" Moreover, \"The desire to extend patent protection to control of staple articles of commerce died slowly, and the ghost of the expansive contributory infringement era continued to haunt the courts.\"\n\nThe result was:\n\nThe \"Mercoid\" decisions left in their wake some consternation among patent lawyers and a degree of confusion in the lower courts. Although some courts treated the \"Mercoid\" pronouncements as limited in effect to the specific kind of licensing arrangement at issue in those cases, others took a much more expansive view of the decision. Among the latter group, some courts held that even the filing of an action for contributory infringement, by threatening to deter competition in unpatented materials, could supply evidence of patent misuse.\n\nThis consternation led to lobbying efforts before Congress:\n\nCertain segments of the patent bar eventually decided to ask Congress for corrective legislation that would restore some scope to the contributory infringement doctrine. With great perseverance, they advanced their proposal in three successive Congresses before it eventually was enacted in 1952.\n\nThe \"Dawson\" Court said that the resulting amendment was a compromise. The \"codification of contributory infringement and patent misuse reveals a compromise between those two doctrines and their competing policies that permits patentees to exercise control over non-staple articles used in their inventions.\" This undid the specific holding in the \"Mercoid\" cases, for:\n\n§ 271(d) effectively confer[s] upon the patentee, as a lawful adjunct of his patent rights, a limited power to exclude others from competition in nonstaple goods. A patentee may sell a nonstaple article himself while enjoining others from marketing that same good without his authorization. By doing so, he is able to eliminate competitors, and thereby to control the market for that product. Moreover, his power to demand royalties from others for the privilege of selling the nonstaple item itself implies that the patentee may control the market for the nonstaple.\n"}
{"id": "19829834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19829834", "title": "Truth window", "text": "Truth window\n\nA truth window (or truth wall) is an opening in a wall surface, created to reveal the layers or components within the wall. In a strawbale house, a truth window is often used to show the walls are actually made from straw bales. A small section of a wall is left unplastered on the interior, and a frame is used to create a window which shows only straw, which makes up the inside of the wall. \n\nMany designs exist for truth windows. Glass may be placed over the window, or an openable wooden panel, or it may be a simple framed opening.\n\nThe possible vulnerability of a truth window to moisture intrusion is sometimes raised as a concern.\n\n"}
{"id": "29486330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29486330", "title": "Underfloor air distribution", "text": "Underfloor air distribution\n\nUnderfloor air distribution (UFAD) is an air distribution strategy for providing ventilation and space conditioning in buildings as part of the design of a HVAC system. UFAD systems use an underfloor supply plenum located between the structural concrete slab and a raised floor system to supply conditioned air through floor diffusers directly into the occupied zone of the building. UFAD systems are similar to conventional overhead systems (OH) in terms of the types of equipment used at the cooling and heating plants and primary air-handling units (AHU). Key differences include the use of an underfloor air supply plenum, warmer supply air temperatures, localized air distribution (with or without individual control) and thermal stratification.Thermal stratification is one of the featured characteristics of UFAD systems, which allows higher thermostat setpoints compared to the traditional overhead systems (OH). UFAD cooling load profile is different from a traditional OH system due to the impact of raised floor, particularly UFAD may have a higher peak cooling load than that of OH systems. This is because heat is gained from building penetrations and gaps within the structure itself. UFAD has several potential advantages over traditional overhead systems, including layout flexibility, improved thermal comfort and ventilation efficiency , reduced energy use in suitable climates and life-cycle costs. UFAD is often used in office buildings, particularly highly-reconfigurable and open plan offices where raised floors are desirable for cable management. UFAD is appropriate for a number of different building types including commercials, schools, churches, airports, museums, libraries etc. Notable buildings using UFAD system in North America include The New York Times Building, Bank of America Tower and San Francisco Federal Building. Careful considerations need to be made in the construction phase of UFAD systems to ensure a well-sealed plenum to avoid air leakage in UFAD supply plenums.\n\nUFAD systems rely on air handling units to filter and condition air to the appropriate supply conditions so it can be delivered to the occupied zone. While overhead systems typically use ducts to distribute the air, UFAD systems use the underfloor plenum formed by installation of a raised floor. The plenum generally sits above the structural concrete slab, although lower heights are possible. Specially designed floor diffusers are used as the supply outlets. The most common UFAD configuration consists of a central air handling unit delivering air through a pressurized plenum and into the space through floor diffusers. Other approaches may incorporate fan powered terminal units at the outlets, underfloor ducts, desktop vents or connections to Personal Environmental Control Systems.\n\nThermal stratification is the result of processes which layer the internal air in accordance with relative density. The resulting air stratum is a vertical gradient with high-density and cooler air below and low-density and warmer air above. Due to the naturally convective movement of air, stratification is used predominantly in cooling conditions.\nUFAD systems capitalize on the natural stratification that occurs when warm air rises due to thermal buoyancy. In a UFAD design, conditioned air stays in the lower, occupied part of the room, while heat sources such as occupants and equipment generate thermal plumes, which carry the warm air and heat source generated pollutants towards the ceiling where they are exhausted through the return air ducts. The temperature stratification created by the UFAD system has implication for space setpoints. Most of an occupant's body is in an area that is colder than the temperature at the thermostat height; therefore, current practice recommends raising thermostat setpoints compared to traditional overhead systems. The optimal ventilation strategy controls the supply outlets to limit the mixing of supply air with room air to just below the breathing height of the space. Above this height, stratified and more polluted air is allowed to occur. The air that the occupant breathes will have a lower concentration of contaminants compared to conventional uniformly mixed systems.\n\nThe theoretical behavior of UFAD systems is based on the plume theory for DV systems. In comparison to classic displacement ventilation (DV) systems that deliver air at low velocities, typical UFAD systems deliver air through floor diffusers with higher supply air velocities. In addition to increasing the amount of mixing (and therefore potentially diminishing the ventilation performance compared to DV systems), these more powerful supply air conditions can have significant impacts on room air stratification and thermal comfort in the occupied zone. Therefore, the control and optimization of this stratification is crucial to system design and sizing, energy-efficient operation, and comfort performance of UFAD systems.\n\nMany factors, including the ceiling height, diffuser characteristics, number of diffusers, supply air temperature, total flow rate, cooling load and conditioning mode affect the ventilation efficiency of UFAD systems. Swirl and perforated-floor-panel diffusers have been shown to create a low air velocity in the occupied zone, while linear diffusers created the highest velocity in the occupied zone, disturbing thermal stratification and posing a potential draft risk. Additionally, floor diffusers add an element of personal control within the reach of the occupant, as users can adjust the amount of air that is delivered by the diffuser though rotating the diffuser top.\n\nCooling load profiles for UFAD systems and overhead systems are different, mainly due to the thermal storage effect of the lighter-weight raised floor panels compared to the heavier mass of a structural floor slab. The mere presence of the raised floor reduces the ability of the slab to store heat, thereby producing for the system with a raised floor higher peak cooling loads compared to the system without a raised floor. In the OH system, particularly in perimeter zones, part of the incoming solar heat gain is stored in the floor slab during the day, thus reducing peak zone cooling loads, and released at night when the system is off. In a UFAD system, the presence of the raised flooring transforms the solar absorbing massive floor slab into a lighter weight material, leading to relatively higher peak zone cooling loads. A modeling study based on EnergyPlus simulations showed that, generally, UFAD has a peak cooling load 19% higher than an overhead cooling load and 22% and 37% of the total zone UFAD cooling load goes to the supply plenum in the perimeter and interior, respectively.\n\nCenter for the Built Environment developed a new index UFAD cooling load ratio (UCLR), which is defined by the ratio of the peak cooling load calculated for UFAD to the peak cooling load calculated for a well-mixed system, to calculate the UFAD cooling load for each zone with the traditional peak cooling load of an overhead (well-mixed) system. UCLR is determined by zone type, floor level and the zone orientation. The Supply Plenum Fraction (SPF), Zone Fraction (ZF) and Return Plenum Fraction (RPF) are developed similarly to calculate the supply plenum, zone and return plenum cooling load.\n\nThere are two available design tools for determining zone airflow rate requirements for UFAD system, one is developed at Purdue University as part of the ASHRAE Research Project (RP-1522). The other one is developed at Center for the Built Environment (CBE) at University of California Berkeley.\n\nASHRAE Research Project (RP-1522) developed a simplified tool that predicts the vertical temperature difference between the head and ankle of occupants, the supply air flow rate for one plenum zone, number of diffusers and the air distribution effectiveness. The tool requires users to specify the zone cooling load and the fraction of the cooling load assigned to the underfloor plenum. It also requires users to input the supply air temperature either at the diffuser or at the duct but with the ratio of plenum flowrate to zonal supply flowrate. The tool allows users to select from three type of diffusers and is applicable to seven type of buildings, including office, classroom, workshop, restaurant, retail shop, conference room and auditorium.\n\nThe CBE UFAD design tool based on extensive research is able to predict the cooling load for UFAD system with the input of the design cooling load calculated for the same building with an overhead system. It also predicts the airflow rate, room temperature stratification, and the plenum temperature gain for both interior and perimeter zones of a typical multi-story office buildings using UFAD system. The CBE tool allows the user to select from four different plenum configurations (series, reverse series, independent and common) and three floor-diffusers (swirl, square and linear bar grill). An online version of the design tool is publicly available at Center for the Built Environment.\n\nPlenum supply air temperature rise is the increase of the conditioned air due to convective heat gain as it travels through the underfloor supply plenum from the plenum inlet to the floor diffusers. This phenomenon is also named thermal decay. Plenum air temperature rise is caused by cool supply air coming into contact with warmer than air concrete slab and raised floor. According to a modeling study, air temperature rise can be quite significant (as much as 5 °C or 9 °F) and subsequently, compared to an idealized simulated UFAD case with no air temperature rise, elevated diffuser air temperatures can lead to higher supply airflow rate and increased fan and chiller energy consumption. The same study found that air temperature rise in summer is higher than in winter and it also depends on the climate. The ground floor with a slab on grade has less temperature rise compared to middle and top floors, and an increase of the supply air temperature causes a decrease in the temperature rise. The temperature rise is not significantly affected by the perimeter zone orientation, the internal heat gain and the window-to-wall ratio. Supply plenum air temperature rise, thus, has implications on the energy saving potential of UFAD systems and their ability to meet cooling requirements with supply temperatures above those of conventional overhead systems. Current research suggests that both energy and thermal performance can be improved in UFAD systems by ducting air to perimeter zones where loads tend to be the greatest. Critics suggest however that such underfloor ducting reduces the benefit of having a low-pressure plenum space, as well as adding design and installation complications when fitting ducts between floor tile pedestals.\n\nLeakage in UFAD supply plenums can be a major cause for inefficiency in a UFAD system. There are two types of leakage—leakage into the space and leakage into pathways that bypass the space. The first category of leakage does not result in an energy penalty because air is getting to the zone it is intended to cool. The second category of leakage increases fan energy in order to maintain a constant plenum pressure, resulting in increased energy use. Careful consideration needs to be paid in the construction phase of UFAD systems to ensure a well-sealed plenum.\n\nThe energy assessment of UFAD systems is a not fully solved issue, which has led to numerous research projects within the building science and mechanical engineering community. Proponents of UFAD point to the lower fan pressures required to deliver air in a building via the plenum as compared to through ducts. Typical plenum pressures are (0.1 inch of water column) or less. The improvements in cooling-system efficiency inherent in operation at higher temperatures save energy, and relatively higher supply air temperatures allow longer periods of economizer operation. However, an economizer strategy is highly climate-dependent and necessitates careful control of humidity to avoid condensation. Critics, on the other hand, cite the shortage of rigorous research and testing to account for variations in climate, system design, thermal comfort and air quality to question whether UFAD is able to deliver improved energy efficiency in practice. Limited simulation tools, the shortage of design standards and relatively scarcity of exemplar projects compound these problems.\n\nUnderfloor air distribution is frequently used in office buildings, particularly highly-reconfigurable and open plan offices where raised floors are desirable for cable management. UFAD is also common in command centers, IT data centers and Server rooms that have large cooling loads from electronic equipment and requirements for routing power and data cables. The ASHRAE Underfloor Air Distribution Design Guide suggests that any building considering a raised floor for cable distribution should consider UFAD.\n\nSpecific space considerations should be taken when using UFAD systems in laboratories because of its critical room pressurization requirements and potential migration of chemicals into the access floor plenum due to spillage. UFAD systems are not recommended in some specific facilities or spaces, such as small non-residential buildings, wet spaces like restrooms and pool areas, kitchens and dining areas and gymnasiums, because UFAD may result in especially difficult or costly in design. UFAD systems may also be used with other HVAC systems, like displacement ventilation, overhead air distribution systems, radiant ceiling or chilled beam systems to get better performance.\n\nConventional \"overhead mixing systems\" usually locate both the supply and return air ducts at the ceiling level. Supply air is supplied at velocities higher than typically acceptable for human comfort and the air temperature may be lower, higher, or the same as desired room temperature depending on the cooling/heating load. High-speed turbulent air jets incoming supply air mix with the room air.\n\nA well-engineered UFAD systems have several potential advantages over traditional overhead systems, such as layout flexibility, improved thermal comfort, improved ventilation efficiency and indoor air quality, improved energy efficiency in suitable climates and reduced life cycle costs.\n\n\"Displacement Ventilation\" systems (DV) work on similar principals as UFAD systems. DV systems deliver cool air into the conditioned space at or near the floor level and return air at the ceiling level. This works by utilizing the natural buoyancy of warm air and the thermal plumes generated by heat sources as cooler air is delivered from lower elevations. While similar, UFAD tends to encourage more mixing within the occupied zone and provide local air supply, which enables it to increase air motion in the space and prevent the sensation of stagnant air conditions, often associated with poor air quality. The major practical differences are that in UFAD, air is supplied at a higher velocity through smaller-size supply outlets than in DV, and the supply outlets are usually controlled by the occupants.\n\nProfessional and Trade groups that provide research funding and publish standards or guides regarding UFAD systems include:\n"}
{"id": "14261236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14261236", "title": "Undisclosed principal", "text": "Undisclosed principal\n\nIn agency law, an undisclosed principal is a person who uses an agent for negotiations with a third party who has no knowledge of the identity of the agent's principal. Often in such situations, the agent pretends to be acting for himself or herself. As a result, the third party does not know to look to the real principal in a dispute.\n\nUnder United States law according to the Restatement (Third) of Agency § 2.06, an undisclosed principal may still be held liable to a third party who justifiably is induced to make a detrimental change in position, even if the agent lacked actual authority to act on behalf of the principal, so long as the undisclosed principal had notice of agent's conduct and that it might induce the third party to change its position, and the principal did not take reasonable steps to notify the third party of the facts. Even where an undisclosed principal has previously forbidden the agent to take some action or incur some debt, the undisclosed principal may be liable for the action or debt so long as the third party would reasonably believe the agent would have had the authority to take the action or incur the debt under the same circumstances had the principal been disclosed, i.e. so long as the transaction is in the usual course of business engaged in by the agent.\n\nIn English law, the legal principle is that, where an agent acts for an undisclosed principal the position is “in much the same way as one who is disclosed”.\n\nThe undisclosed principal concept often arises in the context of real estate transactions, where a buyer risks a seller being less inclined to sell land, risks a seller demanding a higher price, or risks a seller becoming a holdout if the seller knows or can guess the identity of the buyer or the buyer's intended purpose for the land which would afford the land a higher value. The purchase of the land required to build the Walt Disney World resort in Orange County, Florida was accomplished with agents working for Walt Disney Productions as their undisclosed principal. Over eighteen months in 1964 and 1965, agents secretly working for Disney attorneys purchased 27,400 acres of Florida ranchland, swamp, scrub woods and road frontage for an average price of only R5.20 per acre ($5 million total). It is unlikely that Disney would have been able to acquire the land except at prohibitively high prices of hundreds of thousands of dollars per acre had the sellers known their buyer's identity, given the prices at which nearby land sold after Disney completed its acquisitions and publicly announced its plan. (The project could also have been delayed for years or decades as owners of crucial pieces of land held out for higher offers.)\n\n"}
{"id": "1625435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625435", "title": "War Revenue Act of 1917", "text": "War Revenue Act of 1917\n\nThe United States War Revenue Act of 1917 greatly increased federal income tax rates while simultaneously lowering exemptions.\n\nThe 2% bracket had previously applied to income below $20,000. That amount was lowered to $2,000. The top bracket (on income above $2 million) was raised from 15% to 67%.\n\nThe act was applicable to incomes for 1917.\n\nIn addition to the Normal Tax and an Additional Tax levied against the net income of individuals in the Revenue Act of 1916 a\n\"like normal\" tax and a \"like additional\" tax were levied against the net income of individuals as shown in the following table.\n\n\nCorrected for inflation by CPI:\n"}
