{"id": "52992443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52992443", "title": "2012 in Estonian television", "text": "2012 in Estonian television\n\nThis is a list of Estonian television related events from 2012.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22678997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22678997", "title": "Abu Hadriyah Highway", "text": "Abu Hadriyah Highway\n\nHighway 95, better known as Abu Haidriyah Highway, is a major highway in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia. Beginning from King Fahd Causeway, the highway links Bahrain to Saudi Arabia, and extends to the Kuwaiti border, serving major cities such as Dammam and Jubail.\n\nIt was initially built by several international companies, including Jean Lefebvre & Partners, a joint venture between Entreprise Jean Lefebvre (France) and Saudi partners, who appealed to hundreds of expatriates (men) to do the job. Most of these expatriates had the only right to live a single life in camps in the desert during their stays in Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe highway is over 300 kilometers long. It is a main path for the traffic of trucks and goods movement in the area. It runs parallel to the Dhahran-Jubail Highway as they substitute for each other when either of them is undergoing maintenance or reconstruction. The highway also serves as an eastern border for King Fahad International Airport in Dammam.\n\nProjects at the present time are being done to rebuild the highway including the construction of service roads and lighting.\n\nAbu Hadriyah Highway is estimated to have the highest rate of fatal car accidents of all of the Kingdom's major highways. The majority of accidents are attributed to individuals driving at high speeds. \n"}
{"id": "1481662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1481662", "title": "Afrinat International Airlines", "text": "Afrinat International Airlines\n\nAfrinat International Airlines was an airline headquartered in Bakau, the Gambia. It was founded in 2002, and provided scheduled services within West Africa out of Banjul International Airport. In 2004, the airline ceased to exist.\n\nAfrinat International Airlines was created in 2002 by West African businessmen looking to fill the gap left by the disparition of Air Afrique by directly connecting New York's JFK Airport to West African cities. Its first president was Samule Ofori. Afrinat was originally based in the USA.\n\nAfrinat started with 2 aircraft: 1 Boeing 747 (411 passengers, 32 in business) and 1 Boeing 767 (250 passengers, 32 in business).\n\nIn April 2003, Afrinat started daily flights connecting New York and Banjul, and serving as a regional hub to West African countries (Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Ivory Coast, Sierra Leone, and Cameroon).\n\nThe Afrinat International Airlines fleet consisted of a single McDonnell Douglas DC-9-30 jet aircraft.\n\nAs of 2004, Afrinat served the following destinations:\n\n"}
{"id": "37338114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37338114", "title": "Aghia Fotia Beach", "text": "Aghia Fotia Beach\n\nThe beach of Agia Fotia is located 13 kilometers east of Ierapetra, in Crete. It was awarded the Blue Flag in 2006. The village is named after the church of Agia Fotini located here.\n\nAgia Fotia Beach has small pebbles and calm, clear waters. It is an organized beach with umbrellas, as well as a beach bar, restaurant and tennis beach volley. Also, there are large trees for those who like to enjoy nature. Around the beach, there are some other restaurants and some hotels.\n\nAt the eastern end of the beach, there is a source rock that runs clean fresh water.\n\n"}
{"id": "26064840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26064840", "title": "Al Naser Wings Airlines", "text": "Al Naser Wings Airlines\n\nAl Naser Wings Airlines formerly known as Al-Naser Airlines, is an Iraqi airlines based in Karrada, Baghdad, Iraq.\n\nAl-Naser Airlines is registered with the Civil Aviation Authority of Iraq to hold an air operator's certificate. It started operating in 2005 for the US military in Iraq and in 2009 entered the civil sector operating its first flight to Kuwait in February 2009. In 2017 Al-Naser Airlines renamed Al Naser Wings Airlines.\n\nThe Al Naser Wings Airlines fleet consists of the following aircraft as of August 2017:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37859613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37859613", "title": "Apostolic Nunciature to Ukraine", "text": "Apostolic Nunciature to Ukraine\n\nThe Apostolic Nunciature to Ukraine is the diplomatic mission of the Holy See in Ukraine. It is located at Turhenivska Street 40 of Kiev.\n\nOn the first relations of the Holy See to the public entities that existed on the territory of Ukraine, it is known from the end of 10th century. Enhance relations between the See of Rome and Ukraine of the 13th century. Pope Innocent IV in 1253, presented the Prince Daniel of Galicia crown. Diplomatic relations with the Holy See supported the West Ukrainian People's Republic, in May 1919, its ambassador, Count Michael Tyszkiewicz received Pope Benedict XV, February 23, 1920 by Giovanni Genocci was appointed Apostolic visitator in Ukraine. After the onset of the Bolsheviks in 1921, he returned to Rome. Diplomatic relations between the independent Ukraine and the Holy See were established February 8, 1992. On this day, Pope John Paul II issued briefs «Ucrainam Nationem», where he founded the Apostolic Nunciature in Ukraine. On 28 March 1992, John Paul II appointed Archbishop Antonio Franco the first apostolic nuncio in independent Ukraine. Archbishop Nikola Eterovic was appointed the second apostolic nuncio in Ukraine in 1999. On 22 March 2004, Archbishop Eterovic left Ukraine. Archbishop Ivan Jurkovic was the third nuncio in Ukraine appointed in 2004.\nIn 2011 Pope Benedict XVI has appointed apostolic Archbishop Thomas Gullickson, titular Archbishop of Bomarzo, as nuncio in Ukraine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25423346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25423346", "title": "Ashgabat Flagpole", "text": "Ashgabat Flagpole\n\nThe Ashgabat Flagpole is the 5th tallest free-standing flagpole in the world, at tall. It is located in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan, and was erected on 26 June 2008. It has since been surpassed in height by the Panmunjeom flagpole (North Korea), the National Flagpole (Azerbaijan), the Dushanbe Flagpole (Tajikistan), and since October 2014 the Jeddah Flagpole.\n\n"}
{"id": "24010044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24010044", "title": "Astro Tower", "text": "Astro Tower\n\nThe Astro Tower (, ) is a skyscraper in Brussels, Belgium. It is located on the northeast corner of the small ring in the municipality of Saint-Josse-ten-Noode, just north of the Madou Plaza Tower. The Astro Tower is tall, making it one of the tallest buildings in Belgium.\n\nThe financial firm Fortis leased the entirety of the building from 2005 to 2011. From 2011 to 2013, the building underwent extensive renovations.\n\nThe owner, HPG Belgium NV, sold the Astro Tower to Spanish investor Luresa in April 2008.\n"}
{"id": "648618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=648618", "title": "Beovoz", "text": "Beovoz\n\nBeovoz (Serbian Cyrillic: Беовоз) was a commuter rail that provided mass-transit service within the Belgrade metropolitan area. The main usage of system was to connect the suburbs with downtown Belgrade. Beovoz was operated by Serbian Railways.\n\nBelgrade suburban railway system connected the suburbs and nearby cities to the west, north and south of the city.\n\nThe Beovoz public transit system first began operation in 1992.\n\nBeovoz handled 6,182,000 passengers in 2006.\n\nThere were four lines in the Belgrade underground railway network:\n\n\nMost stations were above ground. Vukov Spomenik and Karađorđev Park—the two underground stations of the Beovoz system—are located in downtown Belgrade.\n\nFollowing introduction of BG Voz back in 2010, many vehicles used in Beovoz were rerouted towards new system. After the beginning of reconstruction of Pančevo bridge in 2013, some of the main lines (Belgrade-Pančevo and Valjevo-Pančevo) were abolished, while others were included in Serbian railways regional system. After this, Beovoz became officially defunct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7447467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7447467", "title": "Camrail", "text": "Camrail\n\nCamrail is a company operating passenger and freight traffic between the two largest cities in Cameroon and several smaller cities. The company was formed in 1999 and granted a 20-year concession to operate the Cameroon National Railway. The company is a subsidiary of French investment group Bolloré and the railway has been operated by Comazar, a subsidiary of Bolloré, since 1999. According to the Comazar website, the government of Cameroon owns the track while the rolling stock is owned by Camrail.\n\nAccording to a report by the World Bank in 2011, Camrail ranked relatively high amongst African countries for productivity indicators and was considered a regional leader in terms of implementing a concession to a non-state operator. The 2016 Eséka train derailment took place on Camrail tracks and the company was under investigation by the government and was sued by relatives of the 79 passengers who died in the crash.\n\nAs of May 2014, Camrail operated regular daily services on three routes:\n\n1,104 km of gauge track (1995 est.).\n\n\nOn 21 October 2016 at approximately 1100 local time, a passenger train derailed close to the town of Eséka. The train, traveling from the capital Yaoundé to the country's main port and economic hub, (Douala), was crammed with people because of road traffic disruption between the two cities and came off the tracks just before reaching Eséka. Initial reports are over 60 killed with many hundreds injured. The cause of the accident is currently unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "4960816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4960816", "title": "Centre of West African Studies", "text": "Centre of West African Studies\n\nCentre of West African Studies (CWAS) is a division of the School of Historical Studies at the University of Birmingham, England. The centre provides teaching and research into issues of African development, culture, anthropology, sociology, politics, history, and the legacies of the African diaspora, particularly in the UK, the Caribbean, and North America. \n\nCWAS offers undergraduate and postgraduate study programs in a number of Africa-related fields.\n\nIt is home to the John Fage Library, which houses the CWAS Archives and Electronic Music Database, and the Danford Collection, a unique collection of priceless African artifacts and cultural products.\n\nThe Centre was founded in 1963 by John Fage, a scholar of African (particularly Ghanaian) history, who during his career wrote several seminal works on the history of the African continent, including \"History of Africa\" (now in its 4th edition), \"Africa Discovers Her Past\", and \"Ghana: A Historical Interpretation\", which developed out of a series of lectures sir john cabot read at the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1956. The Danford Collection evolved out of a collection of African cultural artifacts that were brought to the UK by a British civil servant after his posting in West Africa, and has been expanded over time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52521571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52521571", "title": "Council of Lillebonne", "text": "Council of Lillebonne\n\nThe Council of Lillebonne was a meeting of the nobles and clergy of Normandy where, among other things, the expedition of William the Conqueror, then Duke of Normandy, was approved. It was held at Lillebonne, in the northeast of Normandy. Wace, the 12th-century historian, wrote of the council, convened shortly before the actual invasion, likely in January 1066. William of Poitiers, a chronicler of the Norman invasion, claims that the duke also obtained the consent of Pope Alexander II for the invasion, along with a papal banner.\n\nThe council, also called the Norman Council and Assembly of Lillebonne, began with the refusal of Harold to relinquish the crown of England. Two such councils were held, a smaller council of trusted advisors and a larger council to discuss the planned conquest. Relatives and allies of William participated including many of the proven Companions of William:\n\nCajoled by William FitzOsbern, the council approved the invasion plans. William of Poitiers nevertheless describes the council and gives an account of a debate that took place between among the nobles and supporters over whether to risk an invasion of England. Although some formal meeting probably was held, it is unlikely that there was significant debate, as the duke had by then established control over his nobles, and those assembled would want to secure their share of the rewards from the conquest of England.\n\nDouglas, David C., \"William the Conqueror: The Norman Impact Upon England\", University of California Press, Berkeley, 1964\n\nFreeman, Edward A., The Norman Council and the Assembly of Lillebonne, from \"The History of the Norman Conquest of England\", Cambridge University Press, London, 2011 (archive)\n"}
{"id": "33440662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33440662", "title": "Dacian fortress of Sânzieni", "text": "Dacian fortress of Sânzieni\n\nThe Dacian fortress of Sânzieni was a Dacian fortified town. It was located in the town of Sânzieni, Romania.\n"}
{"id": "12185780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12185780", "title": "Dörmögő Dömötör", "text": "Dörmögő Dömötör\n\nDörmögő Dömötör is a fictional bear, created by Hungarian novelist Zsigmond Sebők and comparable to Winnie the Pooh. \"Dörmögő Dömötör\" is also a children's magazine established in 1957 by state-owned \"Ifjúsági Lapkiadó\". The magazine's mascot is the aforementioned bear, but it presents many different kind of stories, comics, puzzles, and others not related to the bear. The magazine is one of the best selling magazines of publisher Drize Publishing Ltd.\n\n"}
{"id": "29416579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29416579", "title": "El Bien del Obrero", "text": "El Bien del Obrero\n\nEl Bien del Obero was a socialist weekly newspaper in Ferrol, Spain. The paper began appearing around 1900.\n"}
{"id": "1526448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1526448", "title": "Enclosed cremation cemetery", "text": "Enclosed cremation cemetery\n\nEnclosed cremation cemetery is a term used by archaeologists to describe a type of cemetery found in north western Europe during the late Neolithic and early Bronze Age. They are similar to urnfield burial grounds in that they consist of a concentration of pits containing cremated remains which have usually also been placed into pottery vessels. However they are also surrounded by a circular or oval bank and outer ditch which gives them their name. The most famous example is Stonehenge which functioned as such a cemetery during its early use when it was a simple earthwork enclosure. They are interpreted as being variations on the ritual and funerary practice of enclosing significant sites of activity during the period, also exhibited by henges and stone circles.\n\n"}
{"id": "3710069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3710069", "title": "Encyclopedia of Slovenia", "text": "Encyclopedia of Slovenia\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Slovenia () is a Slovene-language encyclopedia that contains topics related to Slovenia. It was published from 1987 to 2002 in 16 volumes by Mladinska knjiga in cooperation with the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts.\n\nThe editors of the encyclopedia were Marjan Javornik, Dušan Voglar, and Alenka Dermastia, and the editors of special topics were Rajko Pavlovec, Blaž Resman, Janez Stergar, Zdravko Mlinar, Peter Weiss, Tone Wraber, Aleš Krbavčič, and Tone Ferenc.\n\nThe first volumes were published in a print run of 30,000, but the print run was reduced to 15,000 for later volumes.\n\nFor its overall work on the \"Encyclopedia of Slovenia\", the publisher Mladinska knjiga received the Golden Order of Freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, the highest-ranking order awarded in Slovenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "26848489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26848489", "title": "Estonian Security Police and SD", "text": "Estonian Security Police and SD\n\nThe Estonian Security Police and SD (, ), or Sipo, was a security police force created by the Germans in 1942 that integrated both Germans and Estonians within a unique structure mirroring the German Sicherheitspolizei.\n\nFollowing the German occupation in 1941, the German Army created police \"Prefekts\" based upon the old Estonian police model. In 1942 a new Sicherheitspolizei structure was installed. The new Sipo force was designed by Martin Sandberger, leader of Einsatzkommando 1a. It was a unique joint structure that consisted of a German component called \"Group A\" with departments A-I to A-V and an Estonian component called \"Group B\" with corresponding departments. The Estonian Sipo wore the same uniforms as their German counterparts, and attended Sipo schools in the Reich.\n\n"}
{"id": "12292237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12292237", "title": "Exchange of information", "text": "Exchange of information\n\nIn the area of tax policy, Exchange of Information is a critical tool in assuring compliance with tax codes. As the economy becomes increasingly globalized taxpayers gain greater freedom to move between countries and regions. Tax authorities, however, are restrained by national borders. In order for governments to ensure the proper application of their tax laws, the free and accurate exchange of information is critical. The OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration works to improve flow of information in this area and establish a legal framework to facilitate it.\n\n"}
{"id": "10707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10707", "title": "Fiji", "text": "Fiji\n\nFiji ( ; ; Fiji Hindi: फ़िजी), officially the Republic of Fiji (; Fiji Hindi: फ़िजी गणराज्य), is an island country in Melanesia, part of Oceania in the South Pacific Ocean about northeast of New Zealand's North Island. Its closest neighbours are Vanuatu to the west, New Caledonia to the southwest, New Zealand's Kermadec Islands to the southeast, Tonga to the east, the Samoas and France's Wallis and Futuna to the northeast, and Tuvalu to the north. It has an archipelago of more than 330 islands—of which 110 are permanently inhabited—and more than 500 islets, amounting to a total land area of about . The farthest island is Ono-i-Lau. The two major islands, Viti Levu and Vanua Levu, account for 87% of the total population of . The capital, Suva on Viti Levu, serves as Fiji's principal cruise port. About three-quarters of Fijians live on Viti Levu's coasts, either in Suva or in smaller urban centres like Nadi (with tourism being the major industry) or Lautoka (sugar cane industry). Viti Levu's interior is sparsely inhabited due to its terrain.\n\nThe majority of Fiji's islands were formed through volcanic activity starting around 150 million years ago. Today, some geothermal activity still occurs on the islands of Vanua Levu and Taveuni. The geothermal systems on Viti Levu are of non-volcanic origin with low temperature (35-60 degrees Celsius) surface discharges, Sabeto Hot Springs near Nadi being a good example. Fiji has been inhabited since the second millennium BC, and was settled first by Austronesians and later by Melanesians, with some Polynesian influences. Europeans visited Fiji from the 17th century, and, after a brief period as an independent kingdom, the British established the Colony of Fiji in 1874. Fiji was a Crown colony until 1970, when it gained independence as the Dominion of Fiji. A republic was declared in 1987, following a series of coups d'état. In a coup in 2006, Commodore Frank Bainimarama seized power. When the High Court ruled in 2009 that the military leadership was unlawful, President Ratu Josefa Iloilo, whom the military had retained as the nominal Head of State, formally abrogated the Constitution and reappointed Bainimarama. Later in 2009, Iloilo was replaced as President by Ratu Epeli Nailatikau. After years of delays, a democratic election was held on 17 September 2014. Bainimarama's FijiFirst party won with 59.2% of the vote, and the election was deemed credible by international observers.\n\nFiji has one of the most developed economies in the Pacific due to an abundance of forest, mineral, and fish resources. Today, the main sources of foreign exchange are its tourist industry and sugar exports. The country's currency is the Fijian dollar. Fiji's local government, in the form of city and town councils, is supervised by the Ministry of Local Government and Urban Development.\n\nFiji's main island is known as Viti Levu and it is from this that the name \"Fiji\" is derived, though the common English pronunciation is based on that of their island neighbours in Tonga. Its emergence can be described as follows:\nFijians first impressed themselves on European consciousness through the writings of the members of the expeditions of Cook who met them in Tonga. They were described as formidable warriors and ferocious cannibals, builders of the finest vessels in the Pacific, but not great sailors. They inspired awe amongst the Tongans, and all their Manufactures, especially bark cloth and clubs, were highly valued and much in demand. They called their home Viti, but the Tongans called it Fisi, and it was by this foreign pronunciation, Fiji, first promulgated by Captain James Cook, that these islands are now known.\n\"Feejee\", the Anglicised spelling of the Tongan pronunciation, was used in accounts and other writings until the late 19th century, by missionaries and other travellers visiting Fiji.\n\nLocated in the central Pacific Ocean, Fiji's geography has made it both a destination and a crossroads for migrations for many centuries.\nAccording to oral tradition, the indigenous Fijians of today are descendants of the chief Lutunasobasoba and those who arrived with him on the Kaunitoni canoe. Landing at what is now Vuda, the settlers moved inland to the Nakauvadra mountains. Though this oral tradition has not been independently substantiated, the Fijian government officially promotes it, and many tribes today claim to be descended from the children of Lutunasobasoba.\n\nPottery art from Fijian towns shows that Fiji was settled by Austronesian peoples before or around 3500 to 1000 BC, with Melanesians following around a thousand years later, although the question of Pacific migration still lingers. \nIt is believed that the Lapita people or the ancestors of the Polynesians settled the islands first but not much is known of what became of them after the Melanesians arrived; they may have had some influence on the new culture, and archaeological evidence shows that they would have then moved on to Samoa, Tonga and even Hawai'i.\nArcheological evidence shows signs of settlement on Moturiki Island from 600 BC and possibly as far back as 900 BC.\nAspects of Fijian culture are similar to the Melanesian culture of the western Pacific but have a stronger connection to the older Polynesian cultures. Trade between Fiji and neighbouring archipelagos long before European contact is testified by the canoes made from native Fijian trees found in Tonga and Tongan words being part of the language of the Lau group of islands. Pots made in Fiji have been found in Samoa and even the Marquesas Islands.\n\nIn the 10th century, the Tu'i Tonga Empire was established in Tonga, and Fiji came within its sphere of influence. The Tongan influence brought Polynesian customs and language into Fiji. The empire began to decline in the 13th century.\n\nAcross from east to west, Fiji has been a nation of many languages. Fiji's history was one of settlement but also of mobility and over the centuries, a unique Fijian culture developed. Large elegant watercraft with rigged sails called \"drua\" were constructed in Fiji, some being exported to Tonga. Distinctive village architecture evolved consisting of communal and individual \"bure\" and \"vale\" housing with an advanced system of rampants and moats usually being constructed around the more important settlements. Pigs were domesticated for food and a variety of agricultural plantations such as bananas existed from an early stage. Villages would also be supplied with water brought in by constructed wooden aqueducts. Fijians lived in societies that were led by chiefs, elders and notable warriors. Spiritual leaders, often called \"bete\", were also important cultural figures and the production and consumption of \"yaqona\" was part of their ceremonial and community rites. Fijians developed a monetary system where the polished teeth of the sperm whale, called \"tambua\", became an active currency. A type of writing also existed which can be seen today in various petroglyphs around the islands. They also produced a refined \"masi\" cloth textile industry with the material being used to make sails and clothes such as the \"malo\" and the \"liku\". As with most other human civilisations, warfare was an important part of everyday life in pre-colonial Fiji and the Fijians were noted for their use of weapons especially war-clubs and poisoned arrows.\n\nWith the arrival of Europeans and colonialism in the late 1700s, many elements of Fijian culture were either repressed or modified to ensure European, namely British, control. This was especially the case concerning traditional Fijian spiritual beliefs. Early colonists and missionaries utilised and conflated the concept of cannibalism in Fiji to give a moral imperative for colonial intrusion. By labelling native Fijian customs as \"debased and primitive\", they were able to promote a narrative that Fiji was a \"paradise wasted on savage cannibals\". Extravagant stories made during the 19th century, such as that regarding Ratu Udre Udre who is said to have consumed 872 people and to have made a pile of stones to record his achievement, permitted an enduring racial typecast of the \"uncivilised\" Fijian. Cannibalism, as an impression, was an effective racial tool deployed by the colonists that has endured through the 1900s and into the modern day. Authors such as Deryck Scarr, for example, have perpetuated 19th century claims of \"freshly killed corpses piled up for eating\" and ceremonial mass human sacrifice on the construction of new houses and boats. Although Fiji was known as the \"Cannibal Isles\", other more recent research doubts even the existence of cannibalism in Fiji. This view is not without criticism, and perhaps the most accurate account of cannibalism in 19th century Fiji may come from William MacGregor, the long term chief medical officer in British colonial Fiji. During the Little War of 1876, he stated that the rare occasion of tasting of the flesh of the enemy was done \"to indicate supreme hatred and not out of relish for a gastronomic treat\".\n\nRecent archaeological research conducted on Fijian sites has begun to shed light on the accuracy of some of these European accounts of cannibalism. Studies conducted by scholars including Degusta, Cochrane, and Jones provide evidence that cannibalism has been practiced in Fiji through skeletal modifications such as those due to burning or cutting. In the Jones 2015 study, isotopic analysis of bone collagen provided evidence that human flesh had been consumed by Fijians, although it was likely a small and not necessarily regular part of the diet. However, these archaeological accounts indicate that cannibalistic practices were likely more varied and less ubiquitous than European settlers originally described. Exocannibalism, or cannibalism of members of outsider tribes, and cannibalism practiced as a means of violence or revenge probably play a significantly smaller role than European accounts suggested, with nonviolent and ritualistic practices being more likely.\n\nDutch explorer Abel Tasman was the first known European visitor to Fiji, sighting the northern island of Vanua Levu and the North Taveuni archipelago in 1643 while looking for the Great Southern Continent.\n\nJames Cook, the British navigator, visited one of the southern Lau islands in 1774. It was not until 1789, however, that the islands were charted and plotted, when William Bligh, the castaway captain of , passed Ovalau and sailed between the main islands of Viti Levu and Vanua Levu en route to Batavia, in what is now Indonesia. Bligh Water, the strait between the two main islands, is named after him, and for a time, the Fiji Islands were known as the \"Bligh Islands.\"\n\nThe first Europeans to maintain substantial contact with the Fijians were sandalwood merchants, whalers and \"beche-de-mer\" (sea cucumber) traders. Some of the Europeans who came to Fiji in this period were accepted by the locals and were allowed to stay as residents. Probably the most famous of these was a Swede by the name of Kalle Svenson, better known as Charlie Savage. Charlie was permitted to take wives and establish himself in a high rank in Bau society in exchange for helping defeat local adversaries. In 1813, however, Charlie became a victim of this lifestyle and was killed in a botched raid.\n\nBy the 1820s, Levuka was established as the first European-style town in Fiji, on the island of Ovalau. The market for \"beche-de-mer\" in China was lucrative and British and American merchants set up processing stations on various islands. Local Fijians were utilised to collect, prepare and pack the product which would then be shipped to Asia. A good cargo would result in a half-yearly profit of around $25,000 for the dealer. The Fijian workers were often given firearms and ammunition as an exchange for their labour, and by the end of the 1820s most of the Fijian chiefs had muskets and many were skilled at using them. Some Fijian chiefs soon felt confident enough with their new weapons to forcibly obtain more destructive weaponry from the Europeans. In 1834, men from Viwa and Bau were able to take control of the French ship \"L'amiable Josephine\" and use its cannon against their enemies on the Rewa River, although they later ran it aground.\n\nChristian missionaries like David Cargill also arrived in the 1830s from recently converted regions such as Tonga and Tahiti, and by 1840 the European settlement at Levuka had grown to about 40 houses with former whaler, David Whippey, being a notable resident. The religious conversion of the Fijians was a gradual process which was observed first-hand by Captain Charles Wilkes of the United States Exploring Expedition. Wilkes wrote that \"all the chiefs seemed to look upon Christianity as a change in which they had much to lose and little to gain\". Christianised Fijians, in addition to forsaking their spiritual beliefs, were pressured into cutting their hair short, adopting the sulu form of dress from Tonga and fundamentally changing their marriage and funeral traditions. This process of enforced cultural change was called \"lotu\". Intensification of conflict between the cultures increased and Wilkes was also involved in organising a large punitive expedition against the people of Malolo. He ordered an attack with rockets which acted as makeshift incendiary devices. The village, with the occupants trapped inside, quickly became an inferno with Wilkes himself noting that the \"shouts of men were intermingled with the cries and shrieks of the women and children\" as they burnt to death. Wilkes demanded the survivors should \"sue for mercy\" and if not \"they must expect to be exterminated\". Around 57 to 87 Maloloan people were killed in this encounter.\n\nThe 1840s was a time of conflict where various Fiji clans attempted to assert dominance over each other. Eventually, a warlord by the name of Seru Epenisa Cakobau of Bau Island was able to become a powerful influence in the region. His father was Ratu Tanoa Visawaqa, the Vunivalu (a chiefly title meaning \"Warlord,\" often translated also as \"Paramount Chief\") who had previously defeated the much larger Burebasaga confederacy and succeeded in subduing much of western Fiji. Cakobau, following on from his father, became so dominant that he was able to expel the Europeans from Levuka for five years over a dispute about their giving of weapons to his local enemies. In the early 1850s, Cakobau went one step further and decided to declare war on all Christians. His plans were thwarted after the missionaries in Fiji received support from the already converted Tongans and the presence of a British warship. The Tongan Prince Enele Ma'afu, a Christian, had established himself on the Island of Lakeba in the Lau archipelago in 1848, forcibly converting the local people to the Methodist Church. Cakobau and other chiefs in the west of Fiji regarded Ma'afu as a threat to their power and resisted his attempts to expand Tonga's dominion. Cakobau's influence, however, began to wane and his heavy imposition of taxes on other Fijian chiefs, who saw him at best as first among equals, caused them to defect from him.\n\nAround this time the United States also became interested in asserting their power in the region and they threatened intervention following a number of incidents involving their consul in the Fiji islands, John Brown Williams. In 1849, Williams had his trading store looted following an accidental fire, caused by stray cannon fire during a Fourth of July celebration, and in 1853 the European settlement of Levuka was burnt to the ground. Williams blamed Cakobau for both these incidents and the US representative wanted Cakobau's capital at Bau destroyed in retaliation. A naval blockade was instead set up around the island which put further pressure on Cakobau to give up on his warfare against the foreigners and their Christian allies. Finally, on April 30, 1854, Cakobau offered his \"soro\" (supplication) and yielded to these forces. He underwent the \"lotu\" and converted to Christianity. The traditional Fijian temples in Bau were destroyed and the sacred \"nokonoko\" trees were cut down. Cakobau and his remaining men were then compelled to join with the Tongans, backed by the Americans and British, to subjugate the remaining chiefs in the region who still refused to convert. These chiefs were soon defeated with Qaraniqio of the Rewa being poisoned and Ratu Mara of Kaba being hanged in 1855. After these wars, most regions of Fiji, except for the interior highland areas, had been forced into giving up much of their traditional systems and were now vassals of Western interest. Cakobau was retained as a largely symbolic representative of the Fijian people and was allowed to take the ironic title of \"Tui Viti\" (\"King of Fiji\"), but the overarching control now lay with foreign powers.\n\nThe rising price of cotton in the wake of the American Civil War (1861–1865) saw a flood of hundreds of settlers come to Fiji in the 1860s from Australia and the United States in order to obtain land and grow cotton. Since there was still a lack of functioning government in Fiji, these planters were often able to get the land in violent or fraudulent ways such as exchanging weapons or alcohol with Fijians who may or may not have been the true owners. Although this made for cheap land acquisition, competing land claims between the planters became problematic with no unified government to resolve the disputes. In 1865, the settlers proposed a confederacy of the seven main native kingdoms in Fiji to establish some sort of government. This was initially successful and Cakobau was elected as the first president of the confederacy.\nWith the demand for land high, the white planters started to push into the hilly interior of Viti Levu, the largest island in the archipelago. This put them into direct confrontation with the Kai Colo, which was a general term to describe the various Fijian clans resident to these inland districts. The Kai Colo were still living a mostly traditional lifestyle, they were not Christianised and they were not under the rule of Cakobau or the confederacy. In 1867, a travelling missionary named Thomas Baker was killed by Kai Colo in the mountains at the headwaters of the Sigatoka River. The acting British consul, John Bates Thurston, demanded that Cakobau lead a force of Fijians from coastal areas to suppress the Kai Colo. Cakobau eventually led a campaign into the mountains but suffered a humiliating loss with 61 of his fighters being killed. Settlers also came into conflict with the local eastern Kai Colo people called the Wainimala. John Bates Thurston called in the Australia Station section of the Royal Navy for assistance. The Navy duly sent Commander Rowley Lambert and to conduct a punitive mission against the Wainimala. An armed force of 87 men shelled and burnt the village of Deoka and a skirmish ensued which resulted in the deaths of over forty Wainimala.\n\nAfter the collapse of the confederacy, Ma'afu established a stable administration in the Lau Islands and the Tongans, therefore, were again becoming influential. Other foreign powers such as the United States were also considering the possibility of annexing Fiji. This situation was not appealing to many settlers, almost all of whom were British subjects from Australia. Britain, however, still refused to annex the country and subsequently a compromise was needed.\n\nIn June 1871, George Austin Woods, an ex-lieutenant of the Royal Navy, managed to influence Cakobau and organise a group of like-minded settlers and chiefs into forming a governing administration. Cakobau was declared the monarch (\"Tui Viti\") and the Kingdom of Fiji was established. Most Fijian chiefs agreed to participate and even Ma'afu chose to recognise Cakobau and participate in the constitutional monarchy. However, many of the settlers had come from British colonies like Victoria and New South Wales where negotiation with the Indigenous people almost universally involved the barrel of a gun. As a result, several aggressive, racially motivated opposition groups, such as the British Subjects Mutual Protection Society, sprouted up. One group called themselves the Ku Klux Klan in a homage to the white supremacist group in America. However, when respected individuals such as Charles St Julian, Robert Sherson Swanston and John Bates Thurston were appointed by Cakobau, a degree of authority was established.\nWith the rapid increase in white settlers into the country, the desire for land acquisition also intensified. Once again, conflict with the Kai Colo in the interior of Viti Levu ensued. In 1871, the killing of two settlers named Spiers and Mackintosh near the Ba River (Fiji) in the north-west of the island prompted a large punitive expedition of white farmers, imported slave labourers and coastal Fijians to be organised. This group of around 400 armed vigilantes, including veterans of the US Civil War, had a battle with the Kai Colo near the village of Cubu in which both sides had to withdraw. The village was destroyed and the Kai Colo, despite being armed with muskets, received numerous casualties. The Kai Colo responded by making frequent raids on the settlements of the whites and Christian Fijians throughout the district of Ba. Likewise, in the east of the island on the upper reaches of the Rewa River, villages were burnt and a \"great many\" Kai Colo were shot by the vigilante settler squad called the Rewa Rifles.\n\nAlthough the Cakobau government did not approve of the settlers taking justice into their own hands, it did want the Kai Colo subjugated and their land sold off. The solution was to form an army. Robert S. Swanston, the minister for Native Affairs in the Kingdom, organised the training and arming of suitable Fijian volunteers and prisoners to become soldiers in what was invariably called the King's Troops or the Native Regiment. In a similar system to the Native Police that was present in the colonies of Australia, two white settlers, James Harding and W. Fitzgerald, were appointed as the head officers of this paramilitary brigade. The formation of this force did not sit well with many of the white plantation owners as they did not trust an army of Fijians to protect their interests.\n\nThe situation intensified further in early 1873 when the Burns family were killed by a Kai Colo raid in the Ba River area. The Cakobau government deployed 50 King's Troopers to the region under the command of Major Fitzgerald to restore order. The local whites, with their own large force under the leadership of Mr White and Mr de Courcy Ireland, refused their posting and a further deployment of another 50 troops under Captain Harding was sent to emphasise the government's authority. To prove the worth of the Native Regiment, this augmented force went into the interior and massacred about 170 Kai Colo people at Na Korowaiwai. Upon returning to the coast, the force were met by the white settlers who still saw the government troops as a threat. A skirmish between the government's troops and the white settlers' brigade was only prevented by the timely intervention of Captain William Cox Chapman of who promptly detained Mr White and Mr de Courcy Ireland, forcing the group to disband. The authority of the King's Troops and the Cakobau government to crush the Kai Colo was now total.\n\nFrom March to October 1873, a force of about 200 King's Troops under the general administration of R.S. Swanston with around 1000 coastal Fijian and white volunteer auxiliaries, led a campaign throughout the highlands of Viti Levu to annihilate the Kai Colo. Major Fitzgerald and Major H.C. Thurston (the brother of John Bates Thurston) led a two pronged attack throughout the region. The combined forces of the different clans of the Kai Colo made a stand at the village of Na Culi. The Kai Colo were defeated with dynamite and fire being used to flush them out from their defensive positions amongst the mountain caves. Many Kai Colo were killed and one of the main leaders of the hill clans, Ratu Dradra, was forced to surrender with around 2000 men, women and children being taken prisoner and sent to the coast. In the months after this defeat, the only main resistance was from the clans around the village of Nibutautau. Major H.C. Thurston crushed this resistance in the two months following the battle at Na Culi. Villages were burnt, Kai Colo were killed and a further large number of prisoners were taken. The operations were now over. About 1000 of the prisoners (men, women and children) were sent to Levuka where some were hanged, the rest being sold into slavery and forced to work on various plantations throughout the islands.\n\nThe blackbirding era began in Fiji in 1865 when the first New Hebridean and Solomon Island labourers were transported there to work on cotton plantations. The American Civil War had cut off the supply of cotton to the international market when the Union blockaded southern ports. Cotton cultivation was potentially an extremely profitable business. Thousands of European planters flocked to Fiji to establish plantations but found the natives unwilling to adapt to their plans. They sought labour from the Melanesian islands. On 5 July 1865 Ben Pease received the first licence to provide 40 labourers from the New Hebrides to Fiji.\n\nThe British and Queensland governments tried to regulate this recruiting and transport of labour. Melanesian labourers were to be recruited for a term of three years, paid three pounds per year, issued with basic clothing and given access to the company store for supplies. Most Melanesians were recruited by deceit, usually being enticed aboard ships with gifts, and then locked up. The living and working conditions for them in Fiji were worse than those suffered by the later Indian indentured labourers. In 1875, the chief medical officer in Fiji, Sir William MacGregor, listed a mortality rate of 540 out of every 1000 labourers. After the expiry of the three-year contract, the government required captains to transport the labourers back to their villages, but most ship captains dropped them off at the first island they sighted off the Fiji waters. The British sent warships to enforce the law (Pacific Islanders' Protection Act of 1872) but only a small proportion of the culprits were prosecuted.\nA notorious incident of the blackbirding trade was the 1871 voyage of the brig \"Carl\", organised by Dr James Patrick Murray, to recruit labourers to work in the plantations of Fiji. Murray had his men reverse their collars and carry black books, so to appear to be church missionaries. When islanders were enticed to a religious service, Murray and his men would produce guns and force the islanders onto boats. During the voyage Murray shot about 60 islanders. He was never brought to trial for his actions, as he was given immunity in return for giving evidence against his crew members. The captain of the \"Carl\", Joseph Armstrong, was later sentenced to death.\n\nIn addition to the blackbirded labour from other Pacific islands, thousands of people indigenous to the Fijian archipelago were also sold into slavery on the plantations. As the white settler backed Cakobau government, and later the British colonial government, subjugated areas in Fiji under its power, the resultant prisoners of war were regularly sold at auction to the planters. This not only provided a source of revenue for the government, but also dispersed the rebels to different, often isolated islands where the plantations were located. The land that was occupied by these people before they became slaves was then also sold off for additional revenue. An example of this is the Lovoni people of Ovalau island, who after being defeated in a war with the Cakobau government in 1871, were rounded up and sold off to the settlers at ₤6 per head. Two thousand Lovoni men, women and children were sold and their period of slavery lasted five years. Likewise, after the Kai Colo wars in 1873, thousands of people from the hill tribes of Viti Levu were sent to Levuka and sold into slavery. Warnings from the Royal Navy stationed in the area that buying these people was illegal were largely given without enforcement and the British consul in Fiji, Edward Bernard Marsh, regularly turned a blind eye to this type of labour trade.\n\nDespite achieving military victories over the Kai Colo, the Cakobau government was faced with problems of legitimacy and economic viability. Indigenous Fijians and white settlers refused to pay taxes and the cotton price had collapsed. With these major issues in mind, John Bates Thurston approached the British government, at Cakobau's request, with another offer to cede the islands. The newly elected Tory British government under Benjamin Disraeli encouraged expansion of the empire and was therefore much more sympathetic to annexing Fiji than it had been previously.\nThe murder of Bishop John Coleridge Patteson of the Melanesian Mission at Nukapu in the Reef Islands had provoked public outrage, which was compounded by the massacre by crew members of more than 150 Fijians on board the brig \"Carl.\" Two British commissioners were sent to Fiji to investigate the possibility of an annexation. The question was complicated by manoeuvrings for power between Cakobau and his old rival, Ma'afu, with both men vacillating for many months. On 21 March 1874, Cakobau made a final offer, which the British accepted. On 23 September, Sir Hercules Robinson, soon to be appointed the British Governor of Fiji, arrived on HMS \"Dido\" and received Cakobau with a royal 21-gun salute. After some vacillation, Cakobau agreed to renounce his \"Tui Viti\" title, retaining the title of \"Vunivalu\", or Protector. The formal cession took place on 10 October 1874, when Cakobau, Ma'afu, and some of the senior Chiefs of Fiji signed two copies of the Deed of Cession. Thus the Colony of Fiji was founded; 96 years of British rule followed.\n\nTo celebrate the annexation of Fiji, Hercules Robinson, who was Governor of New South Wales at the time, took Cakobau and his two sons to Sydney. There was a measles outbreak in that city and the three Fijians all came down with the disease. On returning to Fiji, the colonial administrators decided not to quarantine the ship that the convalescents travelled in. This was despite the British having a very extensive knowledge of the devastating effect of infectious disease on an unexposed population. In 1875–76, an epidemic of measles resultant of this decision killed over 40,000 Fijians, about one-third of the Fijian population. Some Fijians who survived were of the opinion that this failure of quarantine was a deliberate action to introduce the disease into the country. Whether this is the case or not, the decision, which was one of the first acts of British control in Fiji, was at the very least grossly negligent.\n\nSir Hercules Robinson was replaced as Governor of Fiji in June 1875 by Sir Arthur Hamilton Gordon. Gordon was immediately faced with an insurgency of the Qalimari and Kai Colo people. In early 1875, colonial administrator Edgar Leopold Layard, had met with thousands of highland clans at Navuso in Viti Levu to formalise their subjugation to British rule and the Christian religion. Layard and his delegation managed to spread the measles epidemic to the highlanders, causing mass deaths in this population. As a result, anger at the British colonists flared throughout the region and a widespread uprising quickly took hold. Villages along the Sigatoka River and in the highlands above this area refused British control and Gordon was tasked with quashing this rebellion.\n\nIn what Gordon himself termed the \"Little War\", the suppression of this uprising took the form of two co-ordinated military campaigns in the western half of Viti Levu. The first was conducted by Gordon's second cousin, Arthur John Lewis Gordon, against the Qalimari insurgents along the Sigatoka River. The second campaign was led by Louis Knollys against the Kai Colo in the mountains to the north of the river. Governor Gordon invoked a type of martial law in the area where A.J.L. Gordon and Knollys had absolute power to conduct their missions outside of any restrictions of legislation. The two groups of rebels were kept isolated from each other by a force led by Walter Carew and George Le Hunte who were stationed at Nasaucoko. Carew also ensured the rebellion did not spread east by securing the loyalty of the Wainimala people of the eastern highlands. The war involved the use of the soldiers of the old Native Regiment of Cakobau supported by around 1500 Christian Fijian volunteers from other areas of Viti Levu. The colonial Government of New Zealand provided most of the advanced weapons for the army including one hundred Snider rifles.\n\nThe campaign along the Sigatoka River was conducted under a scorched earth policy whereby numerous rebel villages were burnt and their fields ransacked. After the capture and destruction of the main fortified towns of Koroivatuma, Bukutia and Matanavatu, the Qalimari surrendered \"en masse\". Those who weren't killed in the fighting were taken prisoner and sent to the coastal town of Cuvu. This included 827 men, women and children as well as the leader of the insurgents, a man named Mudu. The women and children were distributed to places like Nadi and Nadroga. Of the men, 15 were sentenced to death at a hastily conducted trial at Sigatoka. Governor Gordon was present, but chose to leave the judicial responsibility to his relative, A.J.L. Gordon. Four were hanged and ten, including Mudu, were shot with one prisoner managing to escape. By the end of proceedings the Governor noted that \"my feet were literally stained with the blood that I had shed\".\n\nThe northern campaign against the Kai Colo in the highlands was similar but involved removing the rebels from large, well protected caves in the region. Knollys managed to clear the caves \"after some considerable time and large expenditure of ammunition\". The occupants of these caves included whole communities and as a result many men, women and children were either killed or wounded in these operations. The rest were taken prisoner and sent to the towns on the northern coast. The chief medical officer in British Fiji, William MacGregor, also took part both in killing Kai Colo and tending to their wounded. After the caves were taken, the Kai Colo surrendered and their leader, Bisiki, was captured. Various trials were held, mostly at Nasaucoko under Le Hunte, and 32 men were either hanged or shot including Bisiki, who was killed trying to escape.\n\nBy the end of October 1876, the \"Little War\" was over and Gordon had succeeded in vanquishing the rebels in the interior of Viti Levu. Those insurgents who weren't killed or executed were sent into exile with hard labour for up to 10 years. Some non-combatants were allowed to return to rebuild their villages, but many areas in the highlands were ordered by Gordon to remain depopulated and in ruins. Gordon also constructed a military fortress, Fort Canarvon, at the headwaters of the Sigatoka River where a large contingent of soldiers were based to maintain British control. He renamed the Native Regiment, the Armed Native Constabulary to lessen its appearance of being a military force.\nIn order to further consolidate social control throughout the colony, Governor Gordon introduced a system of appointed chiefs and village constables in the various districts to both enact his orders and report any disobedience from the populace. Gordon adopted the chiefly titles \"Roko\" and \"Buli\" to describe these deputies and established a Great Council of Chiefs which was directly subject to his authority as Supreme Chief. This body remained in existence until being suspended by the Military-backed interim government in 2007 and only abolished in 2012.\nGordon also extinguished the ability of Fijians to own, buy or sell land as individuals, the control being transferred to colonial authorities.\n\nGordon decided in 1878 to import indentured labourers from India to work on the sugarcane fields that had taken the place of the cotton plantations. The 463 Indians arrived on 14 May 1879 – the first of some 61,000 that were to come before the scheme ended in 1916. The plan involved bringing the Indian workers to Fiji on a five-year contract, after which they could return to India at their own expense; if they chose to renew their contract for a second five-year term, they would be given the option of returning to India at the government's expense, or remaining in Fiji. The great majority chose to stay. The Queensland Act, which regulated indentured labour in Queensland, was made law in Fiji also.\n\nBetween 1879 and 1916, tens of thousands of Indians moved to Fiji to work as indentured labourers, especially on sugarcane plantations. A total of 42 ships made 87 voyages, carrying Indian indentured labourers to Fiji. Initially the ships brought labourers from Calcutta, but from 1903 all ships except two also brought labourers from Madras and Bombay. A total of 60,965 passengers left India but only 60,553 (including births at sea) arrived in Fiji. A total of 45,439 boarded ships in Calcutta and 15,114 in Madras. Sailing ships took, on average, seventy-three days for the trip while steamers took 30 days. The shipping companies associated with the labour trade were Nourse Line and British-India Steam Navigation Company.\n\nRepatriation of indentured Indians from Fiji began on 3 May 1892, when the \"British Peer\" brought 464 repatriated Indians to Calcutta. Various ships made similar journeys to Calcutta and Madras, concluding with \"Sirsa\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s 1951 voyage. In 1955 and 1956, three ships brought Indian labourers from Fiji to Sydney, from where the labourers flew to Bombay.\nIndentured Indians wishing to return to India were given two options. One was travel at their own expense and the other free of charge but subject to certain conditions. To obtain free passage back to India, labourers had to have been above age twelve upon arrival, completed at least five years of service and lived in Fiji for a total of ten consecutive years. A child born to these labourers in Fiji could accompany his or her parents or guardian back to India if he or she was under twelve.\nDue to the high cost of returning at their own expense, most indentured immigrants returning to India left Fiji around ten to twelve years after arrival. Indeed, just over twelve years passed between the voyage of the first ship carrying indentured Indians to Fiji (the \"Leonidas\", in 1879) and the first ship to take Indians back (the \"British Peer\", in 1892).\nGiven the steady influx of ships carrying indentured Indians to Fiji up until 1916, repatriated Indians generally boarded these same ships on their return voyage. The total number of repatriates under the Fiji indenture system is recorded as 39,261, while the number of arrivals is said to have been 60,553. Because the return figure includes children born in Fiji, many of the indentured Indians never returned to India.\nDirect return voyages by ship ceased after 1951. Instead, arrangements were made for flights from Sydney to Bombay, the first of which departed in July 1955. Labourers still travelled to Sydney by ship.\n\nWith almost all aspects of indigenous Fijian social life being controlled by British authorities, a number of charismatic individuals preaching dissent and return to pre-colonial culture were able to forge a following amongst the disenfranchised. These movements were called Tuka, which roughly translates as \"those who stand up\". The first Tuka movement, was led by Ndoongumoy, better known as Navosavakandua which means \"he who speaks only once\". He told his followers that if they returned to traditional ways and worshipped traditional deities such as Degei and Rokola, their current condition would be transformed with the whites and their puppet Fijian chiefs being subservient to them. Navosavakandua was previously exiled from the Viti Levu highlands in 1878 for disturbing the peace and the British quickly arrested him and his followers after this open display of rebellion. He was again exiled, this time to Rotuma where he died soon after his 10-year sentence ended.\n\nOther Tuka organisations, however, soon appeared. The British were ruthless in their suppression of both the leaders and followers with figureheads such as Sailose being banished to an asylum for 12 years. In 1891, entire populations of villages who were sympathetic to the Tuka ideology were deported as punishment. Three years later in the highlands of Vanua Levu, where locals had re-engaged in traditional religion, the Governor of Fiji, John Bates Thurston, ordered in the Armed Native Constabulary to destroy the towns and the religious relics. Leaders were jailed and villagers exiled or forced to amalgamate into government-run communities. Later, in 1914, Apolosi Nawai came to the forefront of Fijian Tuka resistance by founding a co-operative company that would legally monopolise the agricultural sector and boycott European planters. The company was called the Viti Kabani and it was a hugely successful. The British and their proxy Council of Chiefs were not able to prevent the Viti Kabani's rise and again the colonists were forced to send in the Armed Native Constabulary. Apolosi and his followers were arrested in 1915 and the company collapsed in 1917. Over the next 30 years, Apolosi was re-arrested, jailed and exiled, with the British viewing him as a threat right up to his death in 1946.\n\nFiji was only peripherally involved in World War I. One memorable incident occurred in September 1917 when Count Felix von Luckner arrived at Wakaya Island, off the eastern coast of Viti Levu, after his raider, , had run aground in the Cook Islands following the shelling of Papeete in the French territory of Tahiti. On 21 September, the district police inspector took a number of Fijians to Wakaya, and von Luckner, not realizing that they were unarmed, unwittingly surrendered.\n\nCiting unwillingness to exploit the Fijian people, the colonial authorities did not permit Fijians to enlist. One Fijian of chiefly rank, a greatgrandson of Cakobau's, did join the French Foreign Legion, however, and received France's highest military decoration, the Croix de Guerre. After going on to complete a Law degree at Oxford University, this same chief returned to Fiji in 1921 as both a war hero and the country's first-ever university graduate. In the years that followed, Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna, as he was later known, established himself as the most powerful chief in Fiji and forged embryonic institutions for what would later become the modern Fijian nation.\nBy the time of World War II, the United Kingdom had reversed its policy of not enlisting natives, and many thousands of Fijians volunteered for the Fiji Infantry Regiment, which was under the command of Ratu Sir Edward Cakobau, another greatgrandson of Seru Epenisa Cakobau. The regiment was attached to New Zealand and Australian army units during the war.\n\nBecause of its central location, Fiji was selected as a training base for the Allies. An airstrip was built at Nadi (later to become an international airport), and gun emplacements studded the coast. Fijians gained a reputation for bravery in the Solomon Islands campaign, with one war correspondent describing their ambush tactics as \"death with velvet gloves\". Corporal Sefanaia Sukanaivalu, of Yucata, was posthumously awarded the Victoria Cross, as a result of his bravery in the Battle of Bougainville.\n\nA constitutional conference was held in London in July 1965, to discuss constitutional changes with a view to introducing responsible government. Indo-Fijians, led by A. D. Patel, demanded the immediate introduction of full self-government, with a fully elected legislature, to be elected by universal suffrage on a common voters' roll. These demands were vigorously rejected by the ethnic Fijian delegation, who still feared loss of control over natively owned land and resources should an Indo-Fijian dominated government come to power. The British made it clear, however, that they were determined to bring Fiji to self-government and eventual independence. Realizing that they had no choice, Fiji's chiefs decided to negotiate for the best deal they could get.\n\nA series of compromises led to the establishment of a cabinet system of government in 1967, with Ratu Kamisese Mara as the first Chief Minister. Ongoing negotiations between Mara and Sidiq Koya, who had taken over the leadership of the mainly Indo-Fijian National Federation Party on Patel's death in 1969, led to a second constitutional conference in London, in April 1970, at which Fiji's Legislative Council agreed on a compromise electoral formula and a timetable for independence as a fully sovereign and independent nation with the Commonwealth. The Legislative Council would be replaced with a bicameral Parliament, with a Senate dominated by Fijian chiefs and a popularly elected House of Representatives. In the 52-member House, Native Fijians and Indo-Fijians would each be allocated 22 seats, of which 12 would represent \"Communal constituencies\" comprising voters registered on strictly ethnic roles, and another 10 representing \"National constituencies\" to which members were allocated by ethnicity but elected by universal suffrage. A further 8 seats were reserved for \"General electors\" – Europeans, Chinese, Banaban Islanders, and other minorities; 3 of these were \"communal\" and 5 \"national\". With this compromise, Fiji became independent on 10 October 1970.\n\nThe British granted Fiji independence in 1970. Democratic rule was interrupted by two military coups in 1987 precipitated by a growing perception that the government was dominated by the Indo-Fijian (Indian) community. The second 1987 coup saw both the Fijian monarchy and the Governor General replaced by a non-executive president and the name of the country changed from \"Dominion of Fiji\" to \"Republic of Fiji\" and then in 1997 to \"Republic of the Fiji Islands\". The two coups and the accompanying civil unrest contributed to heavy Indo-Fijian emigration; the resulting population loss resulted in economic difficulties and ensured that Melanesians became the majority.\n\nIn 1990, the new constitution institutionalised ethnic Fijian domination of the political system. The Group Against Racial Discrimination (GARD) was formed to oppose the unilaterally imposed constitution and to restore the 1970 constitution. In 1992 Sitiveni Rabuka, the Lieutenant Colonel who had carried out the 1987 coup, became Prime Minister following elections held under the new constitution. Three years later, Rabuka established the Constitutional Review Commission, which in 1997 wrote a new constitution which was supported by most leaders of the indigenous Fijian and Indo-Fijian communities. Fiji was re-admitted to the Commonwealth of Nations.\n\nThe year 2000 brought along another coup, instigated by George Speight, which effectively toppled the government of Mahendra Chaudhry, who in 1997 had become the country's first Indo-Fijian Prime Minister following the adoption of the new constitution. Commodore Frank Bainimarama assumed executive power after the resignation, possibly forced, of President Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara. Later in 2000, Fiji was rocked by two mutinies when rebel soldiers went on a rampage at Suva's Queen Elizabeth Barracks. The High Court ordered the reinstatement of the constitution, and in September 2001, to restore democracy, a general election was held which was won by interim Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase's Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua party.\n\nIn 2005, the Qarase government amid much controversy proposed a Reconciliation and Unity Commission with power to recommend compensation for victims of the 2000 coup and amnesty for its perpetrators. However, the military, especially the nation's top military commander, Frank Bainimarama, strongly opposed this bill. Bainimarama agreed with detractors who said that to grant amnesty to supporters of the present government who had played a role in the violent coup was a sham. His attack on the legislation, which continued unremittingly throughout May and into June and July, further strained his already tense relationship with the government.\n\nIn late November and early December 2006, Bainimarama was instrumental in the 2006 Fijian coup d'état. Bainimarama handed down a list of demands to Qarase after a bill was put forward to parliament, part of which would have offered pardons to participants in the 2000 coup attempt. He gave Qarase an ultimatum date of 4 December to accede to these demands or to resign from his post. Qarase adamantly refused either to concede or resign, and on 5 December the president, Ratu Josefa Iloilo, was said to have signed a legal order dissolving the parliament after meeting with Bainimarama.\n\nIn April 2009, the Fiji Court of Appeal ruled that the 2006 coup had been illegal. This began the 2009 Fijian constitutional crisis. President Iloilo abrogated the constitution, removed all office holders under the constitution including all judges and the governor of the Central Bank. He then reappointed Bainimarama under his \"New Order\" as interim Prime Minister and imposed a \"Public Emergency Regulation\" limiting internal travel and allowing press censorship.\n\nFor a country of its size, Fiji has fairly large armed forces, and has been a major contributor to UN peacekeeping missions in various parts of the world. In addition, a significant number of former military personnel have served in the lucrative security sector in Iraq following the 2003 US-led invasion.\n\nFiji covers a total area of some of which around 10% is land.\n\nFiji is the hub of the South West Pacific, midway between Vanuatu and Tonga. The archipelago is located between 176° 53′ east and 178° 12′ west. The 180° meridian runs through Taveuni but the International Date Line is bent to give uniform time (UTC+12) to all of the Fiji group. With the exception of Rotuma, the Fiji group lies between 15° 42′ and 20° 02′ south. Rotuma is located north of the group, from Suva, 12° 30′ south of the equator.\n\nFiji consists of 332 islands (of which 106 are inhabited) and 522 smaller islets. The two most important islands are Viti Levu and Vanua Levu, which account for about three-quarters of the total land area of the country. The islands are mountainous, with peaks up to 1,324 metres (4,341 ft), and covered with thick tropical forests.\n\nThe highest point is Mount Tomanivi on Viti Levu. Viti Levu hosts the capital city of Suva, and is home to nearly three-quarters of the population. Other important towns include Nadi (the location of the international airport), and Lautoka, Fiji's second city with large sugar cane mills and a seaport.\n\nThe main towns on Vanua Levu are Labasa and Savusavu. Other islands and island groups include Taveuni and Kadavu (the third and fourth largest islands, respectively), the Mamanuca Group (just off Nadi) and Yasawa Group, which are popular tourist destinations, the Lomaiviti Group, off Suva, and the remote Lau Group. Rotuma, some north of the archipelago, has a special administrative status in Fiji. Ceva-i-Ra, an uninhabited reef, is located about southwest of the main archipelago.\n\nThe climate in Fiji is tropical marine and warm year round with minimal extremes. The warm season is from November to April and the cooler season lasts from May to October. Temperatures in the cool season still average . Rainfall is variable, with the warm season experiencing heavier rainfall, especially inland. For the larger islands, rainfall is heavier on the southeast portions of the islands than on the northwest portions, with consequences for agriculture in those areas. Winds are moderate, though cyclones occur about once a year (10–12 times per decade).\n\nOn 20 February 2016, Fiji was hit by the full force of Cyclone Winston, the only Category 5 tropical cyclone to make landfall in the nation. Winston destroyed tens of thousands of homes across the island, killing 44 people and causing an estimated FJ$2 billion ($1 billion USD) in damage.\n\nPolitics in Fiji normally take place in the framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic wherein the Prime Minister of Fiji is the head of government and the President the Head of State, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government, legislative power is vested in both the government and the Parliament of Fiji, and the judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.\n\nCiting corruption in the government, Commodore Josaia Voreqe (Frank) Bainimarama, Commander of the Republic of Fiji Military Forces, staged a military takeover on 5 December 2006 against the prime minister that he had installed after a 2000 coup. There had also been a military coup in 1987. The commodore took over the powers of the presidency and dissolved the parliament, paving the way for the military to continue the takeover. The coup was the culmination of weeks of speculation following conflict between the elected prime minister, Laisenia Qarase, and Commodore Bainimarama. Bainimarama had repeatedly issued demands and deadlines to the prime minister. A particular issue was previously pending legislation to pardon those involved in the 2000 coup. Bainimarama named Jona Senilagakali as caretaker prime minister. The next week Bainimarama said he would ask the Great Council of Chiefs to restore executive powers to the president, Ratu Josefa Iloilo.\n\nOn 4 January 2007, the military announced that it was restoring executive power to president Iloilo, who made a broadcast endorsing the actions of the military. The next day, Iloilo named Bainimarama as the interim prime minister, indicating that the military was still effectively in control. In the wake of the takeover, reports emerged of alleged intimidation of some of those critical of the interim regime.\n\nOn 9 April 2009, the Court of Appeal overturned the High Court decision that Cdre. Bainimarama's takeover of Qarase's government was lawful and declared the interim government to be illegal. Bainimarama agreed to step down as interim PM immediately, along with his government, and president Iloilo was to appoint \"a distinguished person independent of the parties to this litigation as caretaker Prime Minister, ...to direct the issuance of writs for an election\".\n\nOn 10 April 2009, President Iloilo suspended the Constitution of Fiji, dismissed the Court of Appeal and, in his own words, \"appoint[ed] [him]self as the Head of the State of Fiji under a new legal order\". As President, Iloilo had been Head of State prior to his abrogation of the Constitution, but that position had been determined by the Constitution itself. The \"new legal order\" did not depend on the Constitution, thus requiring a \"reappointment\" of the Head of State. \"You will agree with me that this is the best way forward for our beloved Fiji\", he said. Bainimarama was re-appointed as Interim Prime Minister; he, in turn, re-instated his previous cabinet.\n\nOn 2 May 2009, Fiji became the first nation ever to have been suspended from participation in the Pacific Islands Forum, for its failure to hold democratic elections by the date promised. Nevertheless, it remains a member of the Forum.\n\nOn 1 September 2009, Fiji was suspended from the Commonwealth of Nations. The action was taken because Cdre. Bainimarama failed to hold elections by 2010 as the Commonwealth of Nations had demanded after the 2006 coup. Cdre. Bainimarama stated a need for more time to end a voting system that heavily favoured ethnic Fijians at the expense of the multi-ethnic minorities. Critics, however, claimed that he had suspended the constitution and was responsible for human rights violations by arresting and detaining opponents.\n\nIn his 2010 New Year's address, Cdre. Bainimarama announced the lifting of the Public Emergency Regulations (PER). However, the PER was not rescinded until January 8, 2012 and the Suva Philosophy Club was the first organisation to reorganise and convene public meetings. The PER had been put in place in April 2009 when the former constitution was abrogated. The PER had allowed restrictions on speech, public gatherings, and censorship of news media and had given security forces added powers. He also announced a nationwide consultation process leading to a new Constitution under which the 2014 elections will be held.\n\nOn 14 March 2014, the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group voted to change Fiji's full suspension from the Commonwealth of Nations to a suspension from the councils of the Commonwealth, allowing them to participate in a number of Commonwealth activities, including the 2014 Commonwealth Games. The suspension was lifted in September 2014.\n\nA general election took place on 17 September 2014. Bainimarama's FijiFirst party won with 59.2% of the vote, and the election was deemed credible by a group of international observers from Australia, India and Indonesia.\n\nThe military consists of the Republic of Fiji Military Forces (RFMF) with a total manpower of 3,500 active soldiers and 6,000 reservists, and includes a Navy Unit of 300 personnel.\n\nThe Land Force comprises the Fiji Infantry Regiment (regular and territorial force organised into six light infantry battalions), Fiji Engineer Regiment, Logistic Support Unit and Force Training Group. The two regular battalions are traditionally stationed overseas on peacekeeping duties.\n\nThe Law Enforcement branch is composed of:\n\n\nFiji is divided into Four Major Divisions which are further divided into 14 provinces. They are:\n\n\nFiji was also divided into 3 Confederacies or Governments during the reign of Seru Epenisa Cakobau, though these are not considered political divisions, they are still considered important in the social divisions of the indigenous Fijians:\n\nEndowed with forest, mineral, and fish resources, Fiji is one of the most developed of the Pacific island economies, though still with a large subsistence sector. Some progress was experienced by this sector when Marion M. Ganey, S.J., introduced credit unions to the islands in the 1950s. Natural resources include timber, fish, gold, copper, offshore oil, and hydropower. Fiji experienced a period of rapid growth in the 1960s and 1970s but stagnated in the 1980s. The coup of 1987 caused further contraction.\n\nEconomic liberalisation in the years following the coup created a boom in the garment industry and a steady growth rate despite growing uncertainty regarding land tenure in the sugar industry. The expiration of leases for sugar cane farmers (along with reduced farm and factory efficiency) has led to a decline in sugar production despite subsidies for sugar provided by the EU; Fiji has been the second largest beneficiary of sugar subsidies after Mauritius. Fiji's vital gold mining industry based in Vatukoula, which shut down in 2006, was reactivated in 2008.\n\nUrbanisation and expansion in the service sector have contributed to recent GDP growth. Sugar exports and a rapidly growing tourist industry – with tourists numbering 430,800 in 2003 and increasing in the subsequent years – are the major sources of foreign exchange. Fiji is highly dependent on tourism for revenue. Sugar processing makes up one-third of industrial activity. Long-term problems include low investment and uncertain property rights. The political turmoil in Fiji in the 1980s, the 1990s, and 2000 had a severe impact on the economy, which shrank by 2.8% in 2000 and grew by only 1% in 2001.\n\nThe tourism sector recovered quickly, however, with visitor arrivals reaching pre-coup levels in 2002, resulting in a modest economic recovery which continued into 2003 and 2004 but grew by a mere 1.7% in 2005 and by 2.0% in 2006. Although inflation is low, the policy indicator rate of the Reserve Bank of Fiji was raised by 1% to 3.25% in February 2006 due to fears of excessive consumption financed by debt. Lower interest rates have so far not produced greater investment in exports.\n\nHowever, there has been a housing boom due to declining commercial mortgage rates. The tallest building in Fiji is the fourteen-storey Reserve Bank of Fiji Building in Suva, which was inaugurated in 1984. The Suva Central Commercial Centre, which opened in November 2005, was planned to outrank the Reserve Bank building at seventeen stories, but last-minute design changes ensured that the Reserve Bank building remained the tallest.\n\nTrade and investment with Fiji have been criticised due to the country's military dictatorship. In 2008, Fiji's interim Prime Minister and coup leader Frank Bainimarama announced election delays and said that Fiji would pull out of the Pacific Islands Forum in Niue, where Bainimarama was to have met with Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd and New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark.\n\nThe South Pacific Stock Exchange (SPSE) is the only licensed securities exchange in Fiji and is based in Suva. Its vision is to become a regional exchange.\n\nFiji has a significant amount of tourism with the popular regions being Nadi, the Coral Coast, Denarau Island, and Mamanuca Islands. The biggest sources of international visitors by country are Australia, New Zealand and the United States. Fiji has a significant number of soft coral reefs, and scuba diving is a common tourist activity.\n\nFiji's main attractions to tourists are primarily white sandy beaches and aesthetically pleasing islands with all-year-round tropical weather. In general, Fiji is a mid-range priced holiday/vacation destination with most of the accommodations in this range. It also has a variety of world class five-star resorts and hotels. More budget resorts are being opened in remote areas, which will provide more tourism opportunities. CNN named Fiji's Laucala Island Resort as one of the fifteen world's most beautiful island hotels.\n\nOfficial statistics show that in 2012, 75% of visitors stated that they came for a holiday/vacation. Honeymoons are very popular as are romantic getaways in general. There are also family friendly resorts with facilities for young children including kids' clubs and nanny options.\n\nFiji has several popular tourism destinations. The Botanical Gardens of Thursten in Suva, Sigatoka Sand Dunes, and Colo-I-Suva Forest Park are three options on the mainland (Viti Levu). A major attraction on the outer islands is scuba diving.\n\nAccording to the Fiji Bureau of Statistics, most visitors arriving to Fiji on a short term basis are from the following countries or regions of residence:\n\nThe Nadi International Airport is located north of central Nadi and is the largest Fijian hub. Nausori International Airport is about northeast of downtown Suva and serves mostly domestic traffic with flights from Australia and New Zealand. The main airport in the second largest island of Vanua Levu is Labasa Airport located at Waiqele, southwest of Labasa Town. The largest aircraft handled by Labasa Airport is the ATR 72. Airports Fiji Limited (AFL) is responsible for the operation of 15 public airports in the Fiji Islands. These include two international airports: Nadi international Airport, Fiji's main international gateway, and Nausori Airport, Fiji's domestic hub, and 13 outer island airports. Fiji's main airline was previously known as Air Pacific, but is now known as Fiji Airways. \n\nFiji's larger islands have extensive bus routes that are affordable and consistent in service. There are bus stops, and in rural areas buses are often simply hailed as they approach. Buses are the principal form of public transport and passenger movement between the towns on the main islands. Buses also serve on roll-on-roll-off inter-island ferries. Bus fares and routes are heavily regulated by the Land Transport Authority (LTA). Bus and taxi drivers hold Public Service Licenses (PSVs) issued by the LTA.\n\nTaxis are licensed by the LTA and operate widely all over the country. Apart from urban, town-based taxis, there are others that are licensed to serve rural or semi-rural areas. The flagfall for regular taxis is F$1.50 and tariff is F$0.10 for every 200 meters. For taxis that are allowed to charge Value Added Tax (VAT), the flagfall is F$1.50 and tariff is F$0.30 for the first 200 meters, and F$0.11 for every 200 meters thereafter. Taxis operating out of Fiji's international airport, Nadi charge a flagfall of F$5. The elderly and Government welfare recipients are given a 20% discount on their taxi fares.\n\nInter-island ferries provide services between Fiji's principal islands and large vessels operate roll-on-roll-off services, transporting vehicles and large amounts of cargo between the main island of Viti Levu and Vanua Levu, and other smaller islands.\n\nFiji is the only developing Pacific Island country with recent data for gross domestic expenditure on research and development (GERD). The national Bureau of Statistics cites a GERD/GDP ratio of 0.15% in 2012. Private-sector research and development (R&D) is negligible.\n\nGovernment investment in R&D tends to favour agriculture. In 2007, agriculture and primary production accounted for just under half of government expenditure on R&D, according to the Fijian National Bureau of Statistics. This share had risen to almost 60% by 2012. However, scientists publish much more in the field of geosciences and health than in agriculture.\n\nThe rise in government spending on agricultural research has come to the detriment of research in education, which dropped to 35% of total research spending between 2007 and 2012. Government expenditure on health research has remained fairly constant, at about 5% of total government research spending, according to the Fijian National Bureau of Statistics.\n\nThe Fijian Ministry of Health is seeking to develop endogenous research capacity through the \"Fiji Journal of Public Health\", which it launched in 2012. A new set of guidelines are now in place to help build endogenous capacity in health research through training and access to new technology.\n\nFiji is also planning to diversify its energy sector through the use of science and technology. In 2015, the Secretariat of the Pacific Community observed that, 'while Fiji, Papua New Guinea and Samoa are leading the way with large-scale hydropower projects, there is enormous potential to expand the deployment of other renewable energy options such as solar, wind, geothermal and ocean-based energy sources'.\n\nIn 2014, the Centre of Renewable Energy became operational at the University of Fiji, with the assistance of the Renewable Energy in Pacific Island Countries Developing Skills and Capacity programme (EPIC) funded by the European Union. Since the programme's inception in 2013, EPIC has also developed a master's programme in renewable energy management for the University of Fiji.\n\nThe 2017 census found that the population of Fiji was 884,887, compared to the population of 837,271 in the 2007 census. The population density at the time of the 2007 census was 45.8 inhabitants per square kilometre. The life expectancy in Fiji was 72.1 years. Since the 1930s the population of Fiji has increased at a rate of 1.1% per year. The population is dominated by the 15–64 age segment. The median age of the population was 27.9, and the gender ratio was 1.03 males per 1 female.\n\nThe population of Fiji is mostly made up of native Fijians, who are Melanesians (54.3%), although many also have Polynesian ancestry, and Indo-Fijians (38.1%), descendants of Indian contract labourers brought to the islands by the British colonial powers in the 19th century. The percentage of the population of Indo-Fijian descent has declined significantly over the last two decades due to migration for various reasons. Indo-Fijians suffered reprisals for a period after the Fiji coup of 2000. There is also a small but significant group of descendants of indentured labourers from the Solomon Islands.\n\nAbout 1.2% are Rotuman — natives of Rotuma Island, whose culture has more in common with countries such as Tonga or Samoa than with the rest of Fiji. There are also small but economically significant groups of Europeans, Chinese, and other Pacific island minorities.\nThe total membership of other ethnic groups of Pacific Islanders is about 7,300.\n\nRelationships between ethnic Fijians and Indo-Fijians in the political arena have often been strained, and the tension between the two communities has dominated politics in the islands for the past generation. The level of political tension varies among different regions of the country.\n\nThe concept of family and community is of great importance to Fijian culture. Within the indigenous (iTaukei) communities many members of the extended family will adopt particular titles and roles of direct guardians. Kinship is determined through a child's lineage to a particular spiritual leader, so that a clan is based on traditional customary ties as opposed to actual biological links. These clans, based on the spiritual leader, are known as a matangali. Within the matangali are a number of smaller collectives, known as the mbito. The descent is patrilineal, and all the status is derived from the father's side.\n\nWithin Fiji, many argue that the term \"Fijian\" refers solely to indigenous Fijians: it denotes an ancestral ethnicity, not a nationality. Constitutionally, citizens of Fiji were previously referred to as \"Fiji Islanders\" though the term \"Fiji Nationals\" was used for official purposes. However, the current constitution refers to all Fijian citizens as \"Fijians\". In August 2008, shortly before the proposed People's Charter for Change, Peace and Progress was due to be released to the public, it was announced that it recommended a change in the name of Fiji's citizens. If the proposal were adopted, all citizens of Fiji, whatever their ethnicity, would be called \"Fijians\". The proposal would change the English name of indigenous Fijians from \"Fijians\" to \"itaukei\", the Fijian language endonym for indigenous Fijians.\n\nDeposed Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase reacted by stating that the name \"Fijian\" belonged exclusively to indigenous Fijians, and that he would oppose any change in legislation enabling non-indigenous Fijians to use it. The Methodist Church, to which a large majority of indigenous Fijians belong, also reacted strongly to the proposal, stating that allowing any Fiji citizen to call themselves \"Fijian\" would be \"daylight robbery\" inflicted on the indigenous population.\n\nIn an address to the nation during the constitutional crisis of April 2009, military leader and interim Prime Minister Voreqe Bainimarama, who has been at the forefront of the attempt to change the definition of \"Fijian\", stated:\n\nIn May 2010, Attorney-General Aiyaz Sayed-Khaiyum reiterated that the term \"Fijian\" should apply to all Fiji nationals, but the statement was again met with protest. A spokesperson for the Viti Landowners and Resource Owners Association claimed that even fourth-generation descendants of migrants did not fully understand \"what it takes to be a Fijian\", and added that the term refers to a legal standing, since legislation affords specific rights to \"Fijians\" (meaning, in legislation, indigenous Fijians). Fiji academic Brij Lal, although a prominent critic of the Bainimarama government, said he \"would not be surprised\" if the new definition of the word \"Fijian\" were included in the government's projected new Constitution, and that he personally saw \"no reason the term Fijian should not apply to everyone from Fiji\".\n\nFijian is an Austronesian language of the Malayo-Polynesian family spoken in Fiji. It has 350,000 first-language speakers, which is less than half the population of Fiji, but another 200,000 speak it as a second language. The 1997 Constitution established Fijian as an official language of Fiji, along with English and Fiji Hindi. Fijian is a VOS language.\n\nThe Fiji Islands developed many dialects, which may be classified in two major branches — eastern and western. Missionaries in the 1840s chose an Eastern dialect, the speech of Bau Island off the southeast coast of the main island of Viti Levu, to be the written standard of the Fijian language. Bau Island was home to Seru Epenisa Cakobau, the chief who eventually became the self-proclaimed King of Fiji.\n\nAccording to the 2007 census, 64.4% of the population at the time was Christian, while 27.9% was Hindu, 6.3% Muslim, 0.8% non-religious, 0.3% Sikh, and the remaining 0.3% belonged to other religions.\nAmong Christians, 54% were counted as Methodist, followed by 14.2% Catholic, 8.9% Assemblies of God, 6.0% Seventh-day Adventist, 1.2% Anglican with the remaining 16.1% belonging to other denominations.\n\nThe largest Christian denomination is the Methodist Church of Fiji and Rotuma. With 34.6% of the population (including almost two-thirds of ethnic Fijians), the proportion of the population adhering to Methodism is higher in Fiji than in any other nation. In 2012, permission was granted by the government for Methodists to hold their annual conference, for the first time in four years, with the conditions that the conference not coincide with the national Hibiscus Festival and should only last for three days, and that no political matters were to be discussed, only church matters.\n\nRoman Catholics are headed by the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Suva, whose province also includes the dioceses of Rarotonga (on the Cook Islands, for those and Niue, both New Zealand-associated countries) and Tarawa and Nauru (with see at Tarawa on Kiribati, also for Nauru) and the Mission Sui Iuris of Tokelau (again with New Zealand). This reflects that much major Roman Catholic missionary activity was conducted through the former Apostolic Prefecture (created in 1863 from the Apostolic Vicariate of Central Oceania), then Apostolic Vicariate of Fiji, which has since been promoted to Archdiocese of Suva, which spans the whole of Fiji. \n\nFurthermore, the Assemblies of God, the Seventh-day Adventists and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) are significant. Fiji also is the base for the Anglican Diocese of Polynesia (part of the Anglican Church in Aotearoa, New Zealand and Polynesia). These and other denominations have small numbers of Indo-Fijian members; Christians of all kinds comprised 6.1% of the Indo-Fijian population in the 1996 census.\n\nHindus belong mostly to the Sanatan sect (74.3% of all Hindus) or else are unspecified (22%). The small Arya Samaj sect claims the membership of some 3.7% of Hindus in Fiji. Muslims are mostly Sunni (96.4%) following the Hanafi school of jurisprudence, with a small Ahmadiyya minority (3.6%). The Sikh religion comprises 0.9% of the Indo-Fijian population, or 0.4% of the national population in Fiji. Their ancestors originated from the Punjab region of India; they are a fairly recent wave of immigrants who did not live through the indenture system. The Bahá'í Faith has over 21 local Spiritual Assemblies throughout Fiji, and Baha'is live in more than 80 localities. The first Baha'i in the islands was a New Zealander who arrived in 1924. There is a small Congregational presence with the Samoan community in Suva. The Congregational Christian Church of Samoa built a church of Samoan architecture in Suva. A remnant of the LMS presence in Fiji. There is also a small Jewish population of about 60 people. Every year the Israeli Embassy organises a Passover celebration with about 50–60 people attending.\n\n, primary and secondary school education in Fiji is free; it is compulsory for eight years. As of 2001, attendance was decreasing due to security concerns and the burden of school fees, often due to the cost of transport. Following the government coup in May 2000, more than 5,000 students were reported to have left school.\n\nFiji's culture is a rich mosaic of indigenous Fijian, Indo-Fijian, Asian and European traditions, comprising social polity, language, food (coming mainly from the sea, plus casava, dalo (taro) and other vegetables), costume, belief systems, architecture, arts, craft, music, dance, and sports.\n\nWhile indigenous Fijian culture and traditions are very vibrant and are integral components of everyday life for the majority of Fiji's population, Fijian society has evolved over the past century with the introduction of traditions such as Indian and Chinese as well as significant influences from Europe and Fiji's Pacific neighbours, particularly Tonga and Samoa. Thus, the various cultures of Fiji have come together to create a unique multicultural national identity.\n\nFiji's culture was showcased at the World Exposition held in Vancouver, Canada, in 1986 and more recently at the Shanghai World Expo 2010, along with other Pacific countries in the Pacific Pavilion.\n\nThis is a list of holidays celebrated in Fiji:\nThe exact dates of public holidays vary from year to year, but the dates for the next year can be found at the Fiji Government Web Site\n\nThe following holidays are no longer celebrated in Fiji:\n\n\nSports are very popular in Fiji, particularly sports involving physical contact. Fiji's national sport is Rugby Sevens.\n\nRugby Union is the most-popular team sport played in Fiji.\n\nThe Fiji national sevens side is a popular and successful international rugby sevens team, and has won the Hong Kong Sevens a record eighteen times since its inception in 1976. Fiji has also won the Rugby World Cup Sevens twice — in 1997 and 2005. The Fiji national rugby union sevens team is the reigning Sevens World Series Champions in World Rugby. In 2016, they won Fiji's first ever Olympic medal in the Rugby sevens at the Summer Olympics, winning gold by defeating Great Britain 43-7 in the final.\n\nThe national rugby union team has competed at five Rugby World Cup competitions, the first being in 1987, where they reached the quarter-finals. The Fiji national side did not match that feat again until the 2007 Rugby World Cup when they upset Wales 38–34 to progress to the quarter-finals where they lost to the eventual Rugby World Cup winners, South Africa. Fiji also defeated the British and Irish Lions in 1977.\n\nFiji competes in the Pacific Tri-Nations and the IRB Pacific Nations Cup. The sport is governed by the Fiji Rugby Union which is a member of the Pacific Islands Rugby Alliance, and contributes to the Pacific Islanders rugby union team. At the club level there are the Skipper Cup and Farebrother Trophy Challenge.\n\nThe Fiji national rugby union team is a member of the Pacific Islands Rugby Alliance (PIRA) formerly along with Samoa and Tonga. In 2009, Samoa announced their departure from the Pacific Islands Rugby Alliance, leaving just Fiji and Tonga in the union. Fiji is currently ranked eleventh in the world by the IRB ().\n\nFiji is one of the few countries where rugby union is the main sport. There are about 80,000 registered players from a total population of around 900,000. One of the problems for Fiji is simply getting their players to play for their home country, as many have contracts in Europe with the French Top 14 and the English Aviva Premiership or with Super Rugby teams, where monetary compensation is far more rewarding. The repatriated salaries of its overseas stars have become an important part of some local economies. In addition, a significant number of players eligible to play for Fiji end up representing Australia or New Zealand; notable examples are Fiji-born cousins and former New Zealand All Blacks, Joe Rokocoko and Sitiveni Sivivatu, current All Blacks Waisake Naholo and Seta Tamanivalu as well as Australian Wallabies former winger, Lote Tuqiri and current Wallabies Tevita Kuridrani, Samu Kerevi and Henry Speight. Fiji has won the most Pacific Tri-Nations Championships of the three participating teams.\n\nThe Fiji national rugby league team, nicknamed the Bati (pronounced [mˈbatʃi]), represents Fiji in the sport of rugby league football and has been participating in international competition since 1992. It has competed in the Rugby League World Cup on three occasions, with their best results coming when they made consecutive semi-final appearances in the 2008 Rugby League World Cup and 2013 Rugby League World Cup. The team also competes in the Pacific Cup.\n\nMembers of the team are selected from a domestic Fijian competition, as well as from competitions held in New Zealand and Australia. For the 2000, 2008 and 2013 World Cups, the Bati were captained by Lote Tuqiri, Wes Naiqama and the legendary Petero Civoniceva respectively. Fiji have also produced stars like Akuila Uate, Jarryd Hayne, Kevin Naiqama, Semi Tadulala, Marika Koroibete, Apisai Koroisau, Sisa Waqa and the Sims brothers Ashton Sims, Tariq Sims and Korbin Sims.\n\nThe Cibi (pronounced \"Thimbi\") war dance was traditionally performed by the Fiji rugby team before each match. It was replaced in 2012 with the new \"Bole\" (pronounced \"mBolay\") war cry.\n\nTradition holds that the original Cibi was first performed on the rugby field back in 1939 during a tour of New Zealand, when then Fijian captain Ratu Sir George Cakobau felt that his team should have something to match the Haka of the All Blacks. The 'Cibi' had perhaps been used incorrectly though, as the word actually means \"a celebration of victory by warriors,\" whereas 'Bole' is the acceptance of a challenge.\n\nThe Fiji Bati rugby league team also gather in a huddle and perform the hymn 'Noqu Masu' before each match.\n\nAssociation football was traditionally a minor sport in Fiji, popular largely amongst the Indo-Fijian community, but with international funding from FIFA and sound local management over the past decade, the sport has grown in popularity in the wider Fijian community. It is now the second most-popular sport in Fiji, after rugby (union 15's and union 7's) for men, and after netball for women.\n\nThe Fiji Football Association is a member of the Oceania Football Confederation. The national football team defeated New Zealand 2–0 in the 2008 OFC Nations Cup, on their way to a joint-record third-place finish. However, they have never reached a FIFA World Cup to date. Fiji won the Pacific Games football tournament in 1991 and 2003. Fiji qualified for the 2016 Summer Olympics men's tournament for the first time in history.\n\nDue to the success of Fiji's national basketball teams, the popularity of basketball in Fiji has experienced rapid growth in recent years. In the past, the country only had few basketball courts, which severely limited Fijians who desired to practice the sport more frequently. Due to recent efforts by the national federation \"Basketball Fiji\" and with the support of the Australian government, many schools have been able to construct courts and provide their students with basketball equipment such as shoes, etc.\n\nNetball is the most popular women's participation sport in Fiji. The national team has been internationally competitive, at Netball World Cup competitions reaching 6th position in 1999, its highest level to date. The team won gold medals at the 2007 and 2015 Pacific Games.\n\nCricket is a minor sport in Fiji. Cricket Fiji is an Associate member of the International Cricket Council (\"ICC\"). The Fiji U19 team won the 2015 edition of the ICC East Asia-Pacific tournament, and consequently qualified for the 2016 Under-19 World Cup. Doing so made it the first U19 team other than Papua New Guinea's Under-19 team to qualify from the region.\n\n\nGovernment\n\nGeneral information\n"}
{"id": "5075578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075578", "title": "Golden Rule Airlines", "text": "Golden Rule Airlines\n\nGolden Rule Airlines was an airline based in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan.\n\nThe airline is on the List of air carriers banned in the European Union. One of their aircraft was damaged beyond repair after it crashed in 2009. The airline ceased operations in 2011.\n\nServices operated by Golden Rule Airlines include the following (as of 2006-12-12):\n\nCharter services (passenger or cargo) based in Bishkek. The company has a service department, and is the only licensed company in Kyrgyzstan for An-2's. This includes flight training as well. Crop dusting and aerial advertising/banner towing are also available.\n\nThe fleet includes 3 An-2s (as of 2006-12-12): one each of the passenger, cargo and agricultural versions.\n\n"}
{"id": "3507309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3507309", "title": "Heubad", "text": "Heubad\n\nHeubad () is an Austrian traditional hay bath with more than 200 years of history. Bathers immerse themselves in hay which releases heat from biodecomposition.\n\nHeubad was ostensibly discovered by a tired field worker who, after resting in the hay after several hours of manual labor, felt refreshed and rejuvenated. Heubad is commonly and most popularly done in the Hotel Heubad Spa in Völs am Schlern, Italy. There, people taking part in Heubad burrow in the moist fermented hay for about twenty minutes, followed by lying down on a couch and relaxing for another thirty minutes. This process is considered to open up pores, detoxify the body, soothe aches and pains, and to stimulate the metabolism. The hay is heated to the temperature of 104 degrees Fahrenheit before the people lie in it. The hay used for the Heubad treatment is cut during July and August in the Dolomite mountains, about 2,000 meters above sea level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54191708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54191708", "title": "IHF Congress", "text": "IHF Congress\n\nThe IHF Congress is the supreme legislative body of the International Handball Federation (French: Fédération Internationale de Handball), commonly known by the acronym IHF. IHF is the international governing body of handball, beach handball and wheelchair handball.\n\nThe congress may be ordinary or extraordinary. Ordinary congress shall place every two years (odd years) after the IHF World Men's Handball Championship. Each congress shall determine the date and place of the following ordinary congress. IHF bodies including the President, IHF Council and IHF Executive Committee shall be elected every four years at the congress taking place the year after the Summer Olympic Games. \n\nEach of the 204 members of IHF has one vote in the congress. The members of IHF can propose candidates for the presidency of IHF and for IHF Council. The IHF Presidential election takes place at the congress in the year following the Summer Olympic Games.\n\nThe extraordinary congress shall be convened by the IHF Council upon the written request of a simple majority of the member federations or Council members. Extraordinary congress must be convened within three months of the receipt of the request. \n\nThe IHF congress has been held since 1946. Before 31st Ordinary Congress 2007 in Madrid (Spain), the congresses were held in even years.\n\nIHF Presidential elections have taken place at the 1st, 3rd, 14th, 20th, 28th, 30th, 32nd and 34th ordinary congresses.\n\n"}
{"id": "10040071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10040071", "title": "Khujand clan", "text": "Khujand clan\n\nThe Khujand clan, also known as the Leninabad clan, is the name given to political alliance based in Khujand, Tajikistan. The clan largely controlled the Government of Tajikistan from World War II until the Tajik Civil War.\n\nRahmon Nabiyev, a member of the Khujand clan, became the President of Tajikistan in November 1991. He served until August 1992 when he was forced to resign at gunpoint.\n"}
{"id": "41910533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41910533", "title": "Kiaulės Nugara", "text": "Kiaulės Nugara\n\nKiaulės Nugara is an island in Curonian Lagoon, Port of Klaipėda, Lithuania. The name of island means \"the back of a pig\" in Lithuanian language.\n\nOne of the biggest islands of Lithuania, its length is around 800 meters, and width around 200–300 meters. The island is used for the electric power transmission station between Klaipėda and Curonian Spit. Sailing between the island and ferry terminal is not allowed, because of electric cables which hang at a height of only nine meters.\n\nAt the end of 2014, Klaipėda LNG FSRU planned to start working on the island.\n"}
{"id": "48062255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48062255", "title": "Kołobrzeg Pier", "text": "Kołobrzeg Pier\n\nThe Kołobrzeg Pier () is a reinforced concrete pier in Kołobrzeg, Poland. The structure has a length of 220 metres and the width of 9 metres and the pavilion is located about 4,5 metres above sea level. The pier was reopened after extensive renovation and modernisation works in November 27, 2014.\n\nThe first pier in Kołobrzeg was built in 1881. This was a wooden T-shaped construction, of about 100 metres in length. On the end of the pier there was located a jetty for sailing ships. The historic pier was destroyed during World War II.\n\nThe current pier was officially opened in June 19, 1971. On the end of the pier is located a jetty for small holiday barques, from which ships sail for sightseeing tours. The Kołobrzeg Pier is one of the main attractions of the town.\n"}
{"id": "11972374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11972374", "title": "Lists of cities in Africa", "text": "Lists of cities in Africa\n\nThe following are lists of cities in Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20012877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20012877", "title": "Love City Groove (song)", "text": "Love City Groove (song)\n\n\"Love City Groove\" is a song by British rap group Love City Groove that represented the United Kingdom at the Eurovision Song Contest 1995.\n\nOn the night of the contest the song was performed 15th in the running order, following Belgium's Frédéric Etherlinck with \"La voix est libre\" and preceding Portugal's Tó Cruz with \"Baunilha e chocolate\". It received 76 points, placing 10th in a field of 23.\n\nIt was succeeded as UK representative at the 1996 contest by Gina G with \"Ooh Aah... Just a Little Bit\".\n"}
{"id": "29368441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29368441", "title": "National Financial Credit Bank", "text": "National Financial Credit Bank\n\nNational Financial Credit Bank SA (NFCB) is a commercial bank in Cameroon. It is one of the fourteen licensed commercial banks in the country.\n\nNFCB was formed in 1989 as National Finance Credit Company' (NFCC). Since its inception, NFCC functioned as a savings and credit institution. In 2006, NFCC received a full banking license and rebranded to its current name. Upon the direction of the Central Bank of Central African States, Loita Capital Partners International, a Mauritius-based investment banking company, was invited to invest in NFCB and provide technical and expert guidance during the transition from a savings and credit institution to a fully fledged commercial bank.\nIt was founded by an Oshie man from West Cameroon by the name of Awanga\n\n, NFCC maintained seven networked branches across Cameroon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2882828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2882828", "title": "Net international investment position", "text": "Net international investment position\n\nThe difference between a country's external financial assets and liabilities is its net international investment position (NIIP). A country's external debt includes both its government debt and private debt, and similarly its public and privately held (by its legal residents) external assets are also taken into account when calculating its NIIP. Note that commodities, as well as currencies tend to follow cyclical patterns, whereby they undergo significant valuation changes, of which is reflected in NIIP. \nA country's international investment position (IIP) is a financial statement setting out the value and composition of that country's external financial assets and liabilities. A positive NIIP value indicates a nation is a creditor nation, while a negative value indicates it is a \"debtor nation\". The USA, as recently as 1960 the world's largest creditor, has now become the world's largest debtor, and since the 1980s, Japan has replaced USA as the world's largest creditor nation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8370528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8370528", "title": "O dia das calças roladas", "text": "O dia das calças roladas\n\nO dia das calças roladas is a Capeverdean novel published in 1982 by Germano Almeida.\n\nThe book was first published on Ilhéu Editora. The story is about an account of a strike that happened on the island of Santo Antão.\n\n"}
{"id": "33955503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33955503", "title": "Odprava zelenega zmaja", "text": "Odprava zelenega zmaja\n\nOdprava zelenega zmaja is a novel by Slovenian author Slavko Pregl. It was first published in 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "33811703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33811703", "title": "Oostershuis", "text": "Oostershuis\n\nThe Oostershuis (Dutch for \"Eastern House\") was a kontor in Antwerp and a headquarters of the Hanseatic League.\n\nDesigned by Cornelis Floris II, it was erected about 1560 and destroyed by fire in 1893.\n"}
{"id": "260843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=260843", "title": "Pacific Community", "text": "Pacific Community\n\nThe Pacific Community (SPC) is the principal scientific and technical organisation in the Pacific region. It is an international development organisation owned and governed by its 26 country and territory members. With more than 600 staff, the organisation's headquarters are in Nouméa, New Caledonia, and it has regional offices in Suva, Fiji, and Pohnpei, Federated States of Micronesia, as well as a country office in Honiara, Solomon Islands, and field staff in other Pacific locations. Its working languages are English and French.\n\nThe Pacific Community was founded in 1947 as the South Pacific Commission by six developed countries with an interest in the region:\n\nTwo founding members, The Netherlands and Great Britain have since withdrawn from SPC as the Pacific territories they controlled either gained independence or the right to represent themselves in the organization. \n\nSPC's founding charter is the Canberra Agreement. In the aftermath of World War II, the six colonial powers which created the SPC arguably intended it to secure Western political and military interests in the postwar Pacific.\n\nFrom the start, SPC's role was constrained, and the invitation from Australia and New Zealand to the US, France, Netherlands and the UK to participate in a South Seas Commission Conference in 1947 included the statement that \"the [South Pacific] Commission to be set up should not be empowered to deal in any way with political matters or questions of defense or security\" This constraint on discussion (particularly the constraint on discussing nuclear weapons testing in the region) led, eventually, to the creation of the South Pacific Forum (now \"Pacific Islands Forum\"), which not only excluded the more distant \"metropolitan\" powers of France, UK and USA, but also their Pacific Island territories.\n\nToday, SPC is the principal scientific and technical organisation in the Pacific region.\n\nSPC works closely with donor and technical assistance organisations such as AusAID, the European Union, FAO, the United Nations, New Zealand Aid Programme and CTA.\n\nThe SPC family includes all 22 Pacific island countries and territories, which since 1983 have been full members:\nThese were all territories (or, in the case of Tonga, a protected state) of the original founder members of SPC, but most are now independent. Dutch New Guinea, formerly represented in the SPC by the Netherlands, was transferred to the United Nations in 1962 and to Indonesia in 1969. Thus, the Netherlands is no longer represented in the SPC since the end of 1962. The United Kingdom also withdrew from the organisation on 1 January 1995.\n\nSPC today is the oldest and largest organization in the Council of Regional Organisations in the Pacific (CROP), a consultative process that is headed at the political level by the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat. Since the hand-over of co-ordination of regional political issues from the SPC Conference to the South Pacific Forum in the 1970s, SPC has concentrated on providing technical, advisory, statistical and information support to its member governments and administrations, particularly in areas where small island states lack the wherewithal to maintain purely national cadres of expertise, or in areas where regional co-operation or interaction is necessary.\n\nSPC was the first CROP organization to be headed by a woman, Lourdes Pangelinan of Guam who left the organization end of January 2006. Colin Tukuitonga is the organization's current Director-General.\n\nSPC works across more than 25 sectors. It is involved in such areas as fisheries science, public health surveillance, geoscience and conservation of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture. Much of SPC’s focus is on major cross-cutting issues, such as climate change, disaster risk management, food security, gender equality, human rights, non-communicable diseases and youth employment. Using a multi-sector approach in responding to its members’ development priorities, SPC draws on skills and capabilities from around the region and internationally, and supports the empowerment of Pacific communities and sharing of expertise and skills between countries and territories.\n\nIt has seven divisions: Economic Development, Fisheries, Aquaculture and Marine Ecosystems, Geoscience, Land Resources, Public Health, Social Development and Statistics for Development. SPC also has an Operations and Management Directorate, various programmes and other main work areas.\n\nThe Land Resources Division, based in Suva, comprises two programmes – sustainable management of forest and agriculture systems, and biosecurity and trade facilitation. It operates the Centre for Pacific Crops and Trees, which is a plant propagation vault in Fiji. The Secretariat of the Pacific Community's Land Resources Division provides advice, expertise, technical support and training to members on all aspects of agriculture and forestry, including:\n\n\nThis division has seven sections organised into two programmes which provide services to member countries and territories. In the case of the Oceanic Fisheries Programme these scientific and statistical services complement the highly-migratory fish stock management and MCS services provided by other western Pacific regional fisheries bodies, including the Forum Fisheries Agency, the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission, the Parties to the Nauru Agreement and Te Vaka Moana. The Coastal Fisheries Programme however is the only Pacific Islands regional fisheries body providing monitoring, science, management and development services in reef or nearshore fisheries and aquaculture.\n\nOceanic\n\nCoastal\n\nThis division covers a broad range of areas and includes the:\n\n\n\nThe following is a list of the Secretaries-General and Directors-General (the title of the chief executive was changed in 1997) of the Pacific Community (the name of the Organization was also changed in 1997, from South Pacific Commission to Secretariat of the Pacific Community, and changed again to Pacific Community in 2015):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSPC produces a television show, The Pacific Way. It began in 1995, supported by UNESCO, as a trial for exchanging news stories – with just one tape circulated between TV stations in several Pacific Island nations – and has evolved into a series distributed to 21 TV stations around the region. The half-hour weekly show shares development stories about the Pacific for the Pacific. It covers important topics and key issues, such as climate change adaptation, health, youth employment, innovation in agriculture, fisheries management and the protection of cultural heritage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21079773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21079773", "title": "Pala Airport", "text": "Pala Airport\n\nPala Airport () is a public use airport located near Pala, Mayo-Kebbi Ouest, Chad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48511998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48511998", "title": "Patrick Joseph Carew", "text": "Patrick Joseph Carew\n\nMost Rev. Patrick Joseph Carew (1800 – 2 November 1855) was the Vicar Apostolic of Western Bengal.\n\nPatrick Joseph Carew was born in Waterford, Ireland. On 6 March 1838, Pope Gregory XVI appointed him Vicar Apostolic of Madras and Titular Bishop of \"Philadelphia in Arabia.\" \n\nOn 24 June 1838, he was consecrated bishop by John Murphy, Bishop of Cork with Nicholas Foran, Bishop of Waterford and Lismore, and Francis Haly, Bishop of Kildare and Leighlin as Co-Consecrators. On 4 April 1840, he succeeded to the Vicar Apostolic of Madras replacing Bishop Daniel O'Connor. \n\nOn 30 November 1840, he was appointed Vicar Apostolic of Bengal and Titular Archbishop of \"Edessa in Osrhoëne\". In 1850, the name of the vicariate was changed to the Vicariate Apostolic of Western Bengal. After several months of illness, Carew died on 2 November 1855 at the Archbishop's residence in Calcutta, aged 55.\n"}
{"id": "33895897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33895897", "title": "Renitenztheater", "text": "Renitenztheater\n\nRenitenztheater is a theatre in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Most of the events consist in guest appearances by comedians and singers. In addition, each year it features a satirical play produced by the theater itself. One of the annual highlights of the theater is the \"German-Turkish cabaret week.\"\n"}
{"id": "7164238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7164238", "title": "Republic of Pontus", "text": "Republic of Pontus\n\nThe Republic of Pontus (, \"Dimokratía tou Póntou\") was a proposed Pontic Greek state on the southern coast of the Black Sea. Its territory would have encompassed much of historical Pontus and today forms part of Turkey's Black Sea Region. The proposed state was discussed at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, but the Greek government of Eleftherios Venizelos feared the precarious position of such a state and so it was included instead in the larger proposed state of Wilsonian Armenia. Ultimately, however, neither state came into existence and the Pontic Greek population was expelled from Turkey after 1922 and resettled in the Soviet Union or in Greek Macedonia. This state of affairs was later formally recognized as part of the population exchange between Greece and Turkey in 1923. In modern Greek right wing political circles, the exchange is seen as inextricable from the contemporaneous Greek genocide.\n\nGreek colonies were established on the Pontus coast in 800 BC, and by the time of the conquests of Alexander the Great the local inhabitants were already heavily Hellenized. By the 4th century AD Greek had become the sole spoken language in the region, and it would remain so for a thousand years, first under the Byzantine Empire and then the Empire of Trebizond, a Byzantine successor state. In 1461 the Ottoman Empire conquered Pontus, but the remote mountainous region remained predominately Greek speaking for centuries more.\n\nIn the early 1830s, the modern Greek state achieved independence, but with less territory than it holds today. Hellenic nationalists made further claims upon Greek-populated territory elsewhere. The Pontic Greeks were far from the new Greek state, and had few connections to it, so joining the new Greece was never strongly considered. At that time, many Pontic Greeks migrated to the much closer orthodox states of Russia and Georgia.\n\nIn 1904 a secret society, the Pontus Society, was founded in Merzifon whose main purpose was achieving an independent republic of Pontus. The movement gained significant support and during the 1910s and 1920s, the Metropolitan of Trabzon Chrysanthos Filippides, who would later become the Archbishop of Athens, became a major leader in pushing for an independent Republic of Pontus. International societies of Pontic Greeks became connected with the Pontus Society in Merzifon and began significant lobbying efforts to push for an independent Pontic Greek state: most prominently in Russia and the United States. During this period, Leonidas Iasonidis became a primary leader in the movement for the establishment of a Republic of Pontus.\nLike Armenians, Assyrians and other Ottoman Greeks, the Greeks of Trebizond province suffered a genocide at the beginning of the 20th century, first by the Young Turks and later by Kemalist forces. In both cases, motivation was the fear of the Turks on losing the territory sooner or later to the local indigenous populations of Greeks, Assyrians and Armenians and the policy of turkification. Death marches through Turkey's mountainous terrain, forced labour in the infamous \"Amele Taburu\" in Anatolia and slaughter by the irregular bands of Topal Osman resulted in hundred of thousands of Pontic Greeks perishing during the period from 1915 to 1922. The Greek population of the city itself was however not targeted directly, as the local authorities refused to supply mass murderer Topal with weapons, and local Turks forced his band out of the city. The local Muslims of the city protested the arrest of prominent Christians.\n\nPontic Greeks that escaped the death marches went on to the mountains with women and children, and formed self-defense groups that were protecting the Greek and Armenian population, until the population agreement exchange in 1923. The self-defense groups are believed to have saved the lives of more than 60 thousand Pontic Greeks and Armenians.\n\nOn January 8, 1918, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson enunciated his \"Fourteen Points\" towards a post-war order. Point Twelve specified that the non-Turkish nationalities \"which are now under Turkish rule should be assured an undoubted security of life and an absolutely unmolested opportunity of autonomous development.\" This declaration led to significant activity to organize on the part of non-Turkish populations throughout Anatolia, including the Pontus region. In 1918–1919, Greek Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos began a process of financial payment for repatriation of Pontic Greeks who had resettled in Russia during the violence before and during World War I.\n\nFollowing the Armistice of Mudros which ended World War I hostilities between the Allied powers and the Ottoman Empire, British troops landed in Samsun and occupied much of the region.\n\nAt about the same time, with the beginning of the negotiations at the Paris Peace Conference, 1919 to decide territorial issues in the Ottoman Empire, Chrysanthos arrived at negotiations to push for an independent Pontus on April 29, 1919. While there he presented an 18-page memorandum of support for the establishment of a Republic of Pontus. The proposed Republic of Pontus was to include the districts of Trabzon, Samsun, Sinop and Amasya and cover much of the northeast Black Sea region of modern Turkey.\n\nAt the Conference, Venizelos believed that an independent Republic of Pontus would be too remote for military assistance from Greece and too weak to defend itself against any Turkish attack. For this reason he opposed the creation of a Republic of Pontus and the discussion was largely ended. Later, it was suggested that the district of Trabzon become part of the newly created Armenian state by Venizelos, but this idea did not gain traction with the Allied Powers and violence in the area as a result of the Turkish–Armenian War, the Turkish War of Independence, and the Bolshevik takeover of Armenia soon muted the discussion. In May 1919, the head of the Greek Red Cross for the Pontus region wrote a report indicating that security for the population was very precarious and assistance was necessary.\n\nIn 1921 large part of the Orthodox Christian males of Pontus were deported and sent to labour battalions at Erzerum. During this time an \"Ad hoc Court of Turkish Independence\" in Amasya, which was controlled by the Turkish nationalists of Mustafa Kemal (later Atatürk), sentenced several notable figures to death by hanging. Among them was the former member of the Ottoman parliament, Matthaios Kofidis. They were charged of supporting the independence movement of Pontus.\n\nA large part of the Pontic Greek community resettled during the fighting and after the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923 and as part of the Greek and Turkish population exchange. Records find that 182,169 Pontic Greeks were displaced as part of population exchange. Many of the Pontic Greeks left for the Soviet Union, which had been the site of earlier Pontic migrations and thus had family connections. Much of the rest migrated to Greece where they were given full citizenship rights (Pontic Greeks who migrate from Russia today receive similar privileges). In Greece the Pontic migrants were called \"Póndioi\".\n\n"}
{"id": "15610923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15610923", "title": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Osaka", "text": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Osaka\n\nThe Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Osaka (, ) is an archdiocese located in the city of Osaka in Japan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12191590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12191590", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Moroto", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Moroto\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Moroto () is a diocese in the Ecclesiastical province of Tororo in Uganda.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2865724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2865724", "title": "Salli", "text": "Salli\n\nSALLI - United Sex Professionals of Finland (, \"Union of Sex Business, SALLI\") is a union of sex workers in Finland, founded on November 17, 2002. Its main aim is to solve the problems of the sex industry and to give out information about sexually transferred diseases.\n\nThe organization states that SALLI works for the human rights of sex workers; on its web site, the organization is described as more of a human rights organization than a workers' union.\n"}
{"id": "15287689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15287689", "title": "San Marino passport", "text": "San Marino passport\n\nThe San Marino passport is a passport issued to citizens of San Marino for international travel.\n\nApplications for a San Marino passport are lodged at the Passport Office in San Marino (or, in the case of citizens living overseas, at San Marino diplomatic missions) with the following documents:\n\nIn general, the processing time for a passport application is 15 days.\n\nThe application fee is €60 for applicants aged over 14, €20 for applicants aged 3–14 and €10 for applicants aged under 3.\n\nIn 2014, San Marino citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 151 countries and territories, ranking the Sammarinese passport 16th. It is currently (2018), along with Serbian passport and Bosnian passport, among the only European \"ordinary\" passports to provide visa-free access to China, and of all nationals who can travel visa-free to China, the citizens of San Marino and Bosnia are granted the longest period to stay (90 days).\n\n"}
{"id": "20808914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20808914", "title": "Shock Orchestra", "text": "Shock Orchestra\n\nShock Orchestra is a Serbian band formed as a supporting act for a Serbian rapper Marčelo's live concerts in 2006. They had their debut performance on April 15, 2006, in Dom Omladine in Belgrade, following a tour promoting Marčelo's second album \"Puzzle Shock!\".\nIn September 2008. they finished recording Marčelo's third album \"Treća Strana Medalje\" (The Third Side Of The Medal), which was released in December 2008. Some of the musicians who played on the album include Wikluh Sky, Dragoljub Marković alias Dr. Dra (ex-member of rock-bands such as Ništa ali logopedi, Block Out, X-Centar), Ministar Lingvista (Real Skllz), Aleksandar Andrić (ex Kal) and Marko Milivojević (Ekatarina Velika, Morbidi, U Škripcu, Partibrejkers, Električni Orgazam, Old Stars Band etc.).\n"}
{"id": "23107602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23107602", "title": "Task Force on Financial Integrity and Economic Development", "text": "Task Force on Financial Integrity and Economic Development\n\nThe Task Force on Financial Integrity and Economic Development was a unique global coalition of civil society organizations and governments launched in 2009 to address inequalities in the financial system that penalize billions of people. The Task Force was renamed the Financial Transparency Coalition in May 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49650283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49650283", "title": "The Crest of the Peacock", "text": "The Crest of the Peacock\n\nThe book was brought out as a response to view of the history of mathematics epitomized by Morris Kline's statement that, comparing to what the Greeks achieved, \n\"the mathematics of Egyptians and Babylonians is the scrawling of children just learning to write, as opposed to great literature\", criticised by Joseph as Eurocentric.\n\nThe book is divided into 11 chapters. Chapter 1 provides a lengthy justification for the book. \nChapter 2 is devoted to a discussion of the mathematics of Native Americans and Chapter 3 to the mathematics of ancient Egyptians. In the next two chapters the mathematics of Mesopotamia is considered. There are two chapters dealing with Chinese mathematics, three chapters with Indian mathematics. The book concludes with a chapter on the Islamic contribution to mathematics.\n\n"}
{"id": "32223197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32223197", "title": "The Pit (memorial)", "text": "The Pit (memorial)\n\nThe Pit () is a monument on the corner of Melnikayte and Zaslavskaya streets dedicated to the victims of the Holocaust in Minsk, Belarus. It is on the site where, on March 2, 1942, the Nazi forces shot about 5,000 inhabitants of the nearby Minsk Ghetto.\n\nThe obelisk was created in 1947, and in 2000 a bronze sculpture titled \"The Last Way\" was added. It represents a group of doomed victims descending the steps of the pit. The sculpture was created by the Belarusian artist and Chairman of the Jewish communities of Belarus, Leonid Levin, and the sculptor Elsa Pollak from Israel. On the obelisk is written in Russian and Yiddish, \"To the shining memory of the bright days of five thousand Jews who perished at the hands of sworn enemies of humanity, German-fascist butchers, March 2, 1942.\"\n\nWhen the reconstruction of the memorial was undertaken, no machinery was used and all work done by hand, a process which took eight years to complete. According to the original plan, the sculptural group was to be more detailed, but it was ultimately left with an expressive aesthetic, devoid of national colors, and includes figures of a violinist, children, and a pregnant woman, representing more collective characters. The memorial has been a target of vandalism. Funeral assemblies are held at the memorial every year on March 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "9593045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9593045", "title": "Trends in Food Science and Technology", "text": "Trends in Food Science and Technology\n\nTrends in Food Science and Technology is a peer-reviewed review journal covering product development issues in the science and the technology related to food production. It is an official publication of the European Federation of Food Science and Technology and of the International Union of Food Science and Technology. It is edited by Paul Finglas (Institute of Food Research).\n\nThe journal is indexed and abstracted in the following bibliographic databases:\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2009 impact factor of 4.051, ranking it second out of 118 journals in the category \"Food Science & Technology\".\n"}
{"id": "5854796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5854796", "title": "Verint Systems", "text": "Verint Systems\n\nVerint Systems is a Melville, New York-based analytics company which was founded in 2002. The company sells software and hardware products for customer engagement management, security, surveillance, and business intelligence. Their products are designed to assist clients in data analysis, specifically large data sets. \n\nVerint has more than 10,000 clients in 150 countries, and has approximately 2,800 employees in various locations internationally. The company was previously a majority-owned subsidiary of Comverse Technology and it was formerly known as Comverse Infosys. As with Comverse, approximately half of Verint's employees have been located in Israel. In February 2013, Verint Systems became independent of Comverse, having bought out the latter's stake in it.\n\nVerint started as Comverse Technology's Comverse Infosys business unit, which was created in 1999 although it was also incorporated in Delaware in February 1994 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Comverse Technology. Verint's initial focus was on the commercial call recording market, which at the time was transitioning from analog tape to digital recorders. On June 7, 1999, the company released an Internet Call Waiting service.\n\nIn 1999, Comverse Infosys was combined with another division of Comverse focused on security and the communications interception market. In 2001, Verint expanded into video security by combining with Loronix Information Systems, Inc., which had been previously acquired by Comverse. In 2002, Comverse Infosys changed its name to Verint Systems Inc.\n\nIn May 2002, Verint completed an IPO and became a public company, although it was still majority owned by Comverse Technology. Since 2006 Verint has acquired several other companies such as MultiVision Intelligent Surveillance Limited, a networked video security business; CM Insight Limited, a UK-based, customer management company; Mercom Systems Inc., a interaction recording and performance evaluation company; ViewLinks Euclipse Ltd., a provider of data mining and link analysis software; and Witness Systems, Inc. a workforce optimization company.\n\nIn July 2008 Amit Bohensky founded Focal-Info, a software company focused on web data extraction and analytics. The following month Focal-Info had been bought by Verint for an undisclosed amount, with Bohensky hired back on to lead Focal-Info's \"extendend activity\" within Verint. A subsequent acquisition was of Iontas, in early 2010, a provider of desktop analytics solutions.\n\nBeginning with a stock options backdating scandal in 2006, parent company Comverse Technology suffered a series of financial reporting problems, losses and layoffs, with one consequence that both Comverse and Verint were delisted from the NASDAQ stock market in 2007 and ended up on the Pink Sheets. In July 2010, Verint was relisted on the NASDAQ stock market under the symbol VRNT. By that year, there was considerable talk that Comverse Technology would sell its remaining interest in Verint, with some private equity firms mentioned as possible buyers. In September 2011, Verint acquired Global Management Technologies Corporation, paying around $25 million for it.\n\nIn August 2012, Verint announced that it would buy out Comverse Technology's stake in it, in a transaction valued at around $800 million. An FBR Capital Markets analyst said the move \"finally eliminates a major overhang on the name by removing Comverse's majority ownership stake.\" The deal was finalized in February 2013.\n\nOn February 3, 2014, Verint Systems completed acquisition of KANA Software Inc. from Accel-KKR for $514.2 million.\n\nOn November 16, 2016, Verint Systems completed acquisition of the customer experience software company OpinionLab for an undisclosed amount.\n\nOn December 19, 2017, Verint Systems completed acquisition of the Intelligent Virtual Assistant company Next IT for $30 million cash plus up to $21 million in future payments.\n\nVerint's products include speech analysis software (used to analyze call center recordings) and\nIP surveillance cameras and \"smart\" video surveillance analysis software.\n\nVerint's RELIANT software provides law enforcement agencies with the ability to monitor and analyze voice, video, and data for a \"vast number of targets\" on all types of large, complex computer networks, in order to collect evidence for CALEA wiretaps. Multiple national governments including the U.S., U.K., and various European, Asian, and Pacific nations have purchased millions of dollars in Verint surveillance software and equipment.\n\nOn January 27, 1997, Comverse Technology Inc. announced the formation of a new private equity fund in partnership with Quantum Industrial Holdings Ltd.\n\nVerint has also received millions of dollars in government contracts to outfit airports, shipping ports, and government facilities with intelligent video surveillance systems with tracking, biometrics, and video analysis features. For example, Unisys chose Verint as a subcontractor on its contract with the Transportation Security Administration, to install video surveillance devices in secure areas of airports across the U.S.\n\nIn July 2009, AMR Research ranked Verint 20th in its list of the top 50 global enterprise application vendors. During the latter portion of the decade of the 2000s, the company has won several awards from \"CRM Magazine\".\n\n"}
{"id": "557085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=557085", "title": "Zero population growth", "text": "Zero population growth\n\nZero population growth, sometimes abbreviated ZPG (also called the replacement level of fertility), is a condition of demographic balance where the number of people in a specified population neither grows nor declines, considered as a social aim by some.\nAccording to some, zero population growth, perhaps after stabilizing at some optimum population, is the ideal towards which countries and the whole world should aspire in the interests of accomplishing long-term environmental sustainability. What it means by ‘the number of people neither grows nor declines’ is that births plus in-migrants equal deaths plus out-migrants.\n\nA loosely defined goal of ZPG is to match the replacement fertility rate, which is the average number of children per woman which would hold the population constant. This replacement fertility will depend on mortality rates and the sex ratio at birth, and varies from around 2.1 in developed countries to over 3.0 in some developing countries.\n\nThe American sociologist and demographer Kingsley Davis is credited with coining the term but it was used earlier by George Stolnitz, who stated that the concept of a stationary population dated back to 1693. A mathematical description was given by James Mirrlees.\n\nIn the late 1960s ZPG became a prominent political movement in the U.S. and parts of Europe, with strong links to environmentalism and feminism. Yale University was a stronghold of the ZPG activists who believed “that a constantly increasing population is responsible for many of our problems: pollution, violence, loss of values and of individual privacy.” Founding fathers of the movement were Paul Ehrlich, author of \"The Population Bomb\", Richard Bowers, a Connecticut lawyer, and Professor Charles Lee Remington. Ehrlich stated: “The mother of the year should be a sterilized woman with two adopted children.”\n\nIn the long term, zero population growth can be achieved when the birth rate of a population equals the death rate, i.e. fertility is at replacement level and birth and death rates are stable, a condition also called demographic equilibrium. Unstable rates can lead to drastic changes in population levels. This analysis is valid for the planet as a whole (assuming that interplanetary travel remains at zero or negligible levels), but not necessarily for a region or country as it ignores migration. A population that has been growing in the past will have a higher proportion of young people. As it is younger people who have children, there is large time lag between the point at which the fertility rate (mean total number of children each woman has during her childbearing years) falls to the replacement level (the fertility rate which would result in equal birth and death rates for a population at equilibrium) and the point at which the population stops rising. The reason for this is that even though the fertility rate has dropped to replacement level, people already within a population continue to live for some time. Therefore, equilibrium, with a static population, will not be reached until the first \"replacement level\" birth cohorts reach old age and die. The related calculations are complex because the population's overall death rate can vary over time, and mortality also varies with age (being highest among the old).\n\nConversely, with fertility below replacement, a large elderly generation eventually results (as in an aging “baby boom”); but since that generation failed to replace itself during its fertile years, a subsequent “population bust”, or decrease in population, will occur when the older generation dies off. This effect has been termed birth dearth. In addition, if a country's fertility is at replacement level, and has been that way for at least several decades (to stabilize its age distribution), then that country's population could still experience coincident growth due to continuously increasing life expectancy, even though the population growth is likely to be smaller than it would be from natural population increase.\n\nZero population growth is often a goal of demographic planners and environmentalists who believe that reducing population growth is essential for the health of the ecosystem. Preserving cultural traditions and ethnic diversity is a factor for not allowing human populations levels or rates to fall too low. Achieving ZPG is difficult because a country's population growth is often determined by economic factors, incidence of poverty, natural disasters, disease, etc.\n\nHowever, even if there is zero population growth, there may be changes in demographics of great importance to economic factors, such as changes in age distribution.\n\nNumber of demographic experts have suggested a few ways to reach zero population growth.\n\nBiologist Alan D. Thornhill and Author Daniel Quinn argue that human population growth is a function of the human food supply and that human population growth can only be achieved by an expanded food supply to support the growing population. In 1998, they produced a video entitled \"Food Production and Human Population Growth\" where they explain the theory and answer audience questions.\n\nAlbert Bartlett, an emeritus professor of physics at University of Colorado at Boulder in his lifetime, suggested that the population have following choices to be at ZPG:\n\n\nSimilarly, Jason Brent, another demographic expert, argues that there are three ways to achieve zero population growth. His argument is as follows:\n\n\nChina is the largest country by population in the world, being home to some 1.4 billion people. China is expected to witness a zero population growth rate by 2030. China's population growth has slowed since the beginning of this century. This was mostly the result of China's economic growth and increasing living standards which led to the decline. However, many demographers also credit China's family planning policy, which was formulated in the early 1970s, encourages late marriages, late childbearing, and the use of contraceptives, and since 1980 has limited most urban couples to one child and most rural couples to two children. According to government projections, the work-age population will then drop to 870 million. It was said, in 2009, that the Chinese government was hoping to see zero population growth in the future but, in November 2013, a relaxation of the one-child policy was announced amid unpopularity, reduced labour pool and support for an ageing population.\n\n\n"}
