{"id": "43884199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43884199", "title": "Abstinence (psychoanalysis)", "text": "Abstinence (psychoanalysis)\n\nAbstinence or the rule of abstinence is the principle of analytic reticence and/or frustration within a clinical situation. It is a central feature of psychoanalytic theory – relating especially to the handling of the transference in analysis.\n\nAs Freud wrote in 1914,The cure must be carried through in abstinence. I mean by that not physical self-denial alone, nor the denial of every desire...But I want to state the principle that one must permit neediness and yearning to remain as forces favoring work and change.\n\nThe validity of the abstinence principle has been rediscovered and re-affirmed in a variety of subsequent analytic traditions. \n\nThe rule of abstinence has come under increasing challenge by Interpersonal and Intersubjective psychoanalysis, concerned about the inflexibility of the rule, and the way its relentless application may provoke unnecessary hostility, even an iatrogenic transference neurosis.\n\nDefenders of the rule, against the practice of the warm supportive analyst, argue against the easy seductiveness of being overly 'helpful' in a self-defeating way already sketched out by Freud himself. The concept of optimal responsiveness – balancing frustration and gratification from moment to moment – offers some mediation in the dispute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46198586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46198586", "title": "Ana Janer", "text": "Ana Janer\n\nAna Janer was one of the first two women from Puerto Rico to earn a medical degree. Janer and María Elisa Rivera Díaz graduated in the same medical school class in 1909, and thus can both be considered the first female Puerto Rican physician. They both started their practice that same year.\n"}
{"id": "55139978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55139978", "title": "Annaram Barrage", "text": "Annaram Barrage\n\nAnnaram Barrage is an under construction irrigation project on Godavari River located at Annaram Village, Mahadevpur Mandal, Jayashankar Bhupalpally district in Telangana State, India.\n\nThis is the second point and one of the barrages proposed in Kaleshwaram Project which envisages construction of three barrages between Yellampally & Medigadda.\n\nProposed Annaram Barrage details:\nAnnaram Barrage foundation was laid by First Chief Minister of Telangana, K.Chandrashekar Rao on 2 May 2016.\n\nThe project started by Telangana government as part of the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Schema to irrigate the 18.5 lakh acres of new land and stabilize the 11.8 lakh acres of existing irrigated land.\n\n"}
{"id": "48531915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48531915", "title": "Burn Advocates Network", "text": "Burn Advocates Network\n\nBurn Advocates Network (BAN) is a non-profit organization that supports burn survivors as they face the challenges of recovery, rehabilitation, and reintegration. The organization operates 3 pediatric burn camps and a burn care network. BAN was founded in 2008 and expanded its international activity following the Haiti earthquake, which left an estimated 1,000 burn survivors without proper care.\n\nBased in Teaneck New Jersey, Burn Advocates Network operates 3 pediatric burn camps:\n\n\nToday there are approximately 60 burn camps worldwide, 31 of them based in the USA and registered at the International Association of Burn Camps. Burn camps typically include accommodation, offer various activities such as arts and crafts, cooking sessions and drumming circles, and are tuition-free for campers. The age of participants varies from 6-18 and the number of participants from 15-100. Several academic studies have demonstrated that burn survivors who participated in burn camps experienced decreased isolation, improved self-esteem and improved social skills.\n\nBAN also initiated the DR & Haiti Burn Care Network, which seeks to improve burn care and treatment in the region. Since 2010, BAN has treated over 200 burn survivors through 6 medical missions, distributed over 50,000 tons of medical supplies and equipment, and sponsored several surgeons on medical exchange programs. In order to improve communication between aid workers and local victims, BAN launched the iOS app \"French Creole for Aid Workers\" in 2011.\n\nFounder Samuel Davis, trial lawyer and lecturer, has worked with burn survivors with serious injuries for over 30 years. After witnessing the positive effects of burn camps on his clients, he began sponsoring individual burn survivors from around the world. The local operation quickly expanded into an international organization, following the Haiti earthquake. In 2012, Samuel Davis received the Clarence Darrow Award for his ongoing philanthropic work.\n\nThe organization is funded through private donations and fundraising events. By relying on volunteers and interns, BAN is able to keep its camps free for all participants. \n\n"}
{"id": "13914621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13914621", "title": "Capital punishment in Estonia", "text": "Capital punishment in Estonia\n\nIn Estonia the last execution took place on 11 September 1991 when Rein Oruste was shot with a bullet to the back of the head for the crime of murder. The death penalty was completely abolished in Estonia on 18 March 1998 when Protocol No. 6 to the ECHR was signed.\n\nFrom 1 February 1920 to the incorporation into the Soviet Union in 1940, inmates condemned by civilian courts were given the right to choose how they died: either suicide by drinking poison or hanged in the following terms (as stated in the Criminal Procedure Code which entered in force on 1 February 1935): \"One hour before the scheduled time of the execution, the condemned shall be taken to a death cell, where the state prosecutor will read the death sentence and ask the prisoner whether he is willing to commit suicide. If the answer is in the affirmative, the prosecutor will hand the condemned a glass of poison—the kind of poison to be determined by the National Health Board. If the doomed man fails to take the poison within five minutes he will be hanged'\" Military executions were carried out by an eight men firing squad.\n\n"}
{"id": "57895013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57895013", "title": "Chapin Hall (institute)", "text": "Chapin Hall (institute)\n\nChapin Hall at the University of Chicago is a policy research institution at the University of Chicago that focuses on child welfare and family well-being. Chapin Hall is funded through social service systems, foundations, and non-profit organizations. The organization's focus areas include child welfare and foster care systems, youth homelessness, and community capacity to support children, youth, and families (including early childhood initiatives, home visitation and maltreatment prevention, juvenile justice, and school systems). Chapin Hall is an affiliated research center of the University of Chicago.\n\nChapin Hall at the University of Chicago was founded in 1860 as the Chicago Nursery and Half-Orphan Asylum. In addition to housing orphans and other dependent children, the Asylum provided day care services for working mothers.\n\nIn 1931, the Chicago Nursery and Half-Orphan Asylum moved into a building at 2800 West Foster Avenue. After the move, the organization became known by the name of that building, Chapin Hall Center for Children.\n\nBy the 1960s and 70s, Chapin Hall Center for Children was financially dependent on state money. During the 70s and 80s, national public policy shifted to fund institutional care for only \"severely disturbed children.\" As a result of dwindling support, in 1984, Chapin Hall Center for Children decided to close its residential care program.\n\nThe following year, Chapin Hall Center for Children was re-opened as a policy research center affiliated with the University of Chicago. The goal of the newly formed organization was to conduct research about child welfare and well-being, in alignment with its history as a residential care facility. Harold A. Richman was the first executive director of the research center and held that role through 2008.\n\nChapin Hall's three major areas of focus are child welfare, community capacity building, and youth homelessness. [9] Chapin Hall houses a number of ongoing initiatives related to child, youth, and family well-being.\n\nThe Center for State Child Welfare Data is a platform that enables public sector agencies to store and analyze administrative data related to children placed in out-of-home care. , 22 states used the platform, covering about 70% of children in the U.S. in the child welfare system.\n\nOne component of Center is the Foster Care Data Archive. The archive provides access to information about children in the foster care system over time.\n\nIn addition to providing a platform for the data, Chapin Hall staff help members analyze data for both policymaking and in practice.\n\nChapin Hall receives financial support from the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation to run a fellowship program for current and recent graduate students interested in child well-being and maltreatment prevention.\n\nResearchers in the program are from multiple disciplines including social work, child development, public health, medicine, public policy, education, economics, psychology, and epidemiology. Fellows receive thirty thousand dollars to complete their dissertation and related research.\n\nTransformational Collaborative Outcomes Management (TCOM) is a framework for decision-making in complex systems. TCOM provides tools and guidance on an individual, program, and system level to help support decisions, monitor outcomes, and improve quality in child welfare systems.\n\nTCOM is the foundation of Child and Adolescent Needs and Strengths (CANS), an assessment strategy for monitoring the well-being of children and youth. CANS is broadly used in child welfare. As of 2018, the CANS was being used by nearly 5,000 agencies across 10 countries, including all 50 U.S. states. The assessment is used in the fields of child welfare, mental health, juvenile justice, autism and developmental health, and early intervention.\n\nThe CANS-MH is a variant of the CANS for children and adolescents with mental health challenges. The tool has been shown to be a \"reliable measure of psychosocial needs and strengths\".\n\nThe Collaboration for Early Childhood is a nonprofit organization in Oak Park, Illinois that works to connect parents of young children to local resources. Their website also houses resource directories for health care professionals, educators, and service providers.\n\nStarting in 2013, the Collaboration for Early Childhood entered a five-year contract with Chapin Hall to build a comprehensive early childhood database. The database will unify administrative data sources, providing users with a view of school enrollment and poverty at a local level in Oak Park. Information on subsidized child care and SNAP benefits will be available at a state level. Once the database is live, providers will be able to access and analyze these data to help inform program and practice decision-making.\n\nVoices of Youth Count is a research initiative on youth experiences of unaccompanied homelessness in the U.S. Chapin Hall partnered with twenty-two counties across the U.S. to conduct \"youth-led counts and surveys of young people and providers\". The research also included qualitative interviews in five of those twenty-two counties, a national phone survey, a survey of service providers, a review of policy related to youth homelessness, and a systematic review of published evidence on the effectiveness of programs targeting youth homelessness.\n\nBased on these data sources, Voices of Youth Count has produced a series of policy briefs. The first provided an estimate of the scale and character of youth homelessness in the U.S. The second report focused on lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, and queer youth, and the third looked at youth homelessness among pregnant or parenting young people.\n\nReports on youth counts, youth homelessness in the rural U.S., youth trajectories into and through homelessness, child welfare, and education are forthcoming.\n\nChapin Hall employs research and policy staff with experience in child welfare, epidemiology, psychology, social work, statistics, and youth development. The organization began with 15 employees in 1986, and has had more than one hundred employees as of 2013. Annual revenue in 1986 was about five hundred thousand. In 2016, that number stood at over five million dollars.\n\nBryan Samuels is the current Executive Director of Chapin Hall. He joined the organization in 2013 after serving as the commissioner of the Administration on Children, Youth and Families in Washington D.C. In 2018, Samuels was the recipient of the Bernice Weissbourd Award for Family Support, awarded by Family Focus.\n"}
{"id": "23161657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23161657", "title": "Chief physician", "text": "Chief physician\n\nA chief physician, also called a head physician, physician in chief, senior consultant, or chief of medicine, is a physician in a senior management position at a hospital or other institution. In many institutions, it is the title of the most senior physician, but it may also be used as the title of the most senior physician of a particular department within a larger institution. A chief physician generally is in charge of medical matters and often is the superior of other physicians (including consultants and attending physicians), but may also be in charge of other professional groups and areas of responsibility.\n"}
{"id": "3881345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3881345", "title": "Commotio cordis", "text": "Commotio cordis\n\nCommotio cordis (Latin, \"agitation of the heart\") is an often lethal disruption of heart rhythm that occurs as a result of a blow to the area directly over the heart (the precordial region), at a critical time during the cycle of a heart beat causing cardiac arrest. It is a form of ventricular fibrillation (V-Fib), not mechanical damage to the heart muscle or surrounding organs, and not the result of heart disease. The fatality rate is about 65% even with prompt CPR and defibrillation, and more than 80% without.\n\nCommotio cordis occurs mostly in boys and young men (average age 15), usually during sports, most frequently baseball, often despite a chest protector. It is usually caused by a projectile, but can also be caused by the blow of an elbow or other body part. Being less developed, the thorax of an adolescent is likely more prone to this injury given the circumstances.\n\nThe phenomenon was confirmed experimentally in the 1930s, with research in anaesthetized rabbits, cats and dogs.\n\nCommotio cordis is a very rare event, but nonetheless is often considered when an athlete presents with sudden cardiac death. Some of the sports which have a risk for this cause of trauma are baseball, American football, association football, ice hockey, polo, rugby football, cricket, softball, pelota, fencing, lacrosse, boxing, karate, kung fu, and other martial arts. Children are especially vulnerable, possibly due to the mechanical properties of their thoracic skeleton. From 1996 to spring 2007, the USA National Commotio Cordis Registry had 188 cases recorded, with about half occurring during organized sports. Almost all (96%) of the victims were male, the mean age of the victims during that period was 14.7 years, and fewer than one in five survived the incident.\n\nCommotio cordis may also occur in other situations, such as in children who are punished with blows over the precordium, cases of torture, and frontal collisions of motor vehicles (the impact of the steering wheel against the thorax, although this has decreased substantially with the use of safety belts and air bags). In one fatality, the impact to the chest was the result of an exploding whipped cream canister.\n\nIn contrast, the precordial thump (hard blows given over the precordium with a closed fist to revert cardiac arrest) is a sanctioned procedure for emergency resuscitation by trained health professionals witnessing a monitored arrest when no equipment is at hand, endorsed by the latest guidelines of the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation. It has been discussed controversially, as—in particular in severe hypoxia—it may cause the opposite effect (i.e., a worsening of rhythm—commotio cordis). In a normal adult, the energy range involved in the precordial thump is five to 10 times below that associated with commotio cordis.\n\nThese factors influence the chance of commotio cordis:\n\n\nThe small window of vulnerability explains why it is a rare event. Considering that the total cardiac cycle has a duration of 1 second (for a base cardiac frequency of 60 beats per minute), the probability of a mechanical trauma within the window of vulnerability is 1 to 3% only. That also explains why the heart becomes more vulnerable when it is physically strained by sports activities:\n\nThe cellular mechanisms of commotio cordis are still poorly understood, but probably related to the activation of mechanosensitive proteins, ion channels. These trigger extra electrical excitation waves which, if occurring right at the trailing edge of a previous electrical cycle, can give rise to ventricular fibrillation. Since the trailing edge of the preceding electrical cycle travels over the ventricular surface, the critical window for mechanical induction of ventricular fibrillation varies locally - i.e. the commotio cordis risk window exists in time and in space. This helps to explain why precordial impacts tend to have benign consequences.\n\nImpact energies of at least 50 joules are estimated to be required to cause cardiac arrest, when applied in the right time and spot of the precordium of an adult. Impacts up to 130 joules have already been measured with hockey pucks and lacrosse balls, 450 joules in karate punches, and 1028 joules in boxer Rocky Marciano's punch. The 50-joule threshold, however, can be considerably lowered when the victim's heart is under ischemic conditions, such as in coronary artery insufficiency.\n\nAlso an upper limit of impact energy is applied to the heart; too much energy will create structural damage to the heart muscle, as well as causing electrical upset. This condition is referred to as contusio cordis (from Latin for bruising of the heart). On isolated guinea pig hearts, as little as 5 mJ were needed to induce release of creatine kinase, a marker for muscle cell damage. Obviously, this figure does not include the dissipation of energy through the chest wall, and is not scaled up for humans, but it is indicative that relatively small amounts of energy are required to reach the heart before physical damage is done.\n\nThe risk would probably be reduced by improved coaching techniques, such as teaching young batters to turn away from the ball to avoid errant pitches, according to doctors. Defensive players in lacrosse and hockey are now taught to avoid using their chest to block the ball or puck. Starting in 2017, high school lacrosse players are penalized, and play stopped immediately, if they enter their own goal crease with the apparent intent of blocking shots or acting as goalkeeper. \n\nChest protectors and vests are designed to reduce trauma from blunt bodily injury, but this does not offer protection from commotio cordis and may offer a false sense of security. Almost 20% of the victims in competitive football, baseball, lacrosse and hockey were wearing protectors. This ineffectiveness has been confirmed by animal studies. Development of adequate chest protectors may prove difficult.\n\nMost cases are fatal. Automated external defibrillators have helped increase the survival rate to 35%. Defibrillation must be started as soon as possible (within 3 minutes) for maximal benefit. Commotio cordis is the leading cause of fatalities in youth baseball in the US, with two to three deaths per year. It has been recommended that \"communities and school districts reexamine the need for accessible automatic defibrillators and cardiopulmonary resuscitation-trained coaches at organized sporting events for children.\"\n\nSeveral people have been convicted of involuntary manslaughter in cases involving insufficient and slow medical help to athletes who experienced commotio cordis during sports events, as well as in cases of intentional delivery of contusive blows. In 1992, Italian hockey player Miran Schrott died after a blow to his chest from the stick of Canadian-Italian player Jimmy Boni. Boni was charged with culpable homicide, and eventually pleaded guilty to manslaughter, paying a $1,300 fine and $175,000 restitution to Schrott's family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5590760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5590760", "title": "Complex of Sultan Bayezid II Health Museum", "text": "Complex of Sultan Bayezid II Health Museum\n\nThe Complex of Sultan Bayezid II Health Museum () is a hospital museum of Trakya University within the Complex of Sultan Bayezid II located in Edirne, Turkey.\n\nA \"külliye\" is an Ottoman architectural term for a complex of buildings centered on a mosque. Complex of Bayezid II Külliye was built in 1488 by the Ottoman sultan Bayezid II (reigned 1481–1512).\n\nThe complex contains a Dar al-Shifa (Turkish \"darüşşifa\", \"hospital, medical center\"), and it remained in operation for four centuries from 1488 until the Russo-Turkish War (1877–78). The hospital was especially notable for its treatment methods for mental disorders, which included the use of music, water sound and scents.\n\nThe historic darüşşifa was incorporated into the structure of Edirne-based Trakya University in 1993, and converted into a \"Health Museum\" () in 1997, a museum dedicated to the history of medicine and health matters in general. It has been developing constantly ever since. It remains Turkey's only museum in its field and provides varied and valuable information to visitors on the development of medicine and of medical services throughout history, especially Ottoman history. The museum is the second most visited historical site in Edirne after the Selimiye Mosque. The museum was awarded the European Council's \"European Council Museum Award\" in 2004 and in 2016 the complex was inscribed in the Tentative list of World Heritage Sites in Turkey.\n\nThe health institution was a medical school (). It ranked among the best 60 schools (madrasa) in the Ottoman Empire due to its high-paid scholar.\n\nThe medical school consisted of 18 student rooms and a classroom surrounding three sides of a courtyard with a shadirvan (fountain) in the middle. Famous Ottoman travel writer Evliya Çelebi (1611–after 1682) mentions in his book that the students of the medical school were mature physicians, who studied and discussed works of Ancient Greek philosophers, scientists and physicians such as Plato (428/427 or 424/423–348/347 BC), Socrates (470/469–399 BC), Philip of Opus, Aristotle (384–322 BC), Galen (AD 129– c. 200/c. 216) and Pythagoras (c. 570 – c. 495 BC). The physicians, each being a specialist in a different field, tried to find out the best treatment by studying valuable scientific literature on medicine. The books of the medical school are archived in the hand-written books library of Selimiye Mosque today.\n\nAccording to Evliya Çelebi, following daily wages were paid to the staff and students:\n\n"}
{"id": "18331777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18331777", "title": "Diane Stanley", "text": "Diane Stanley\n\nDiane Stanley (born December 27, 1943) is an American children's author and illustrator.\n\nStanley was born in Abilene, Texas. She earned her bachelor's degree from Trinity University and her M. A. in medical illustration from Johns Hopkins University College of Medicine. She has worked as a medical illustrator, a graphic designer for Dell Publishing, and an art director for G. P. Putnam's Sons, winning three design awards from the New York Book Show.\n\nStanley is the author and/or illustrator of fifty books for children, noted especially for her series of picture book biographies. \"Shaka, King of the Zulus\" was named a New York Times Best Illustrated Book and \"Leonardo da Vinci\" received the Orbis Pictus Award for Outstanding Nonfiction from the National Council for Teachers of English. Many of her books have been honored as American Library Association Notable Books and she has twice received both the Boston Globe/Hornbook Award and the Society of Children's Book Writers' Golden Kite Award. She was the recipient of the Washington Post/Children's Book Guild Award for the body of her work.\n\nShe has three grown children and lives in Santa Fe, New Mexico with her husband, Peter Vennema.\n\n\nPicture Books (as illustrator only):\nPicture Books (as author only):\nPicture Books (as author and illustrator):\nNovels:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48976725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48976725", "title": "East Gordon Street Sewerage Works", "text": "East Gordon Street Sewerage Works\n\nEast Gordon Street Sewerage Works is a heritage-listed pumping station at Sewerage Works Buildings, 38 East Gordon Street, Mackay, Mackay Region, Queensland, Australia. It was designed by A E Harding Frew and built in 1936. It is also known as Pump Stations. It was added to the Queensland Heritage Register on 10 July 2009.\n\nThe sewerage works in East Gordon Street, one of the first in Queensland, was opened by George Moody, Mayor of Mackay, on 25 January 1936. The consulting engineer was AE Harding Frew.\n\nMackay began as a settlement on the south bank of the Pioneer River serving pastoral holdings. By 1863 it had been surveyed and the first lots of land sold. It was gazetted as a port of entry and a customs house was opened. Sugar cane was introduced in 1865 and by the mid-1880s this was the major industry in the area. Mackay prospered as a port and as a commercial and administrative centre.\n\nFrom the end of the nineteenth century until well after World War II, basic services in regional Queensland were progressively upgraded. Reticulated water supplies, sewerage systems and electricity were introduced into regional towns beginning with the major centres. Planning for Brisbane's sewerage system was underway by 1909. A sewerage scheme was introduced at Toowoomba in 1925, and development of a sewerage scheme at Rockhampton commenced in 1936. Most other regional centres did not have sewerage systems provided until after World War Two, with some local government areas waiting until the 1960s-1980s. Mackay's sewerage system, opened in January 1936, was among the first in regional Queensland.\n\nThe system was introduced at a time when Mackay was undergoing a major public works program to improve the infrastructure of the town and upgrade the harbour. A number of factors prompted this program. Through the 1920s and 1930s, Mackay enjoyed a period of substantial growth, even during the period of financial hardship and unemployment caused by the Depression. It was the fastest-growing town in Queensland, with its population almost doubling between 1923 and 1940. This was largely due to the linking of Mackay by the North Coast railway line to Rockhampton in 1921 and to Townsville in 1923. This improved access to markets and reduced transport costs, boosting not only the sugar industry, but also the developing dairy and tourist industries.\n\nAnother contributing factor was that the local Member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly, William Forgan Smith, was Premier of Queensland between 1932 and 1940 and he supported the growth of the region. It was hoped that the public works program, including the Outer Harbour scheme, would make Mackay one of Queensland's most frequented beauty spots and that, as an attractive modern city, it would become a base for those visiting Eungella and the islands.\n\nThe city council commissioned a town plan from Ronald McInnes in 1934. It was based on Britain's Town Planning Act of 1932 and was the first town plan designed for an existing city in Queensland, serving as a model for other cities for many years. The Mackay City Council undertook an ambitious plan for the beautification and modernisation of the city. The scheme included the provision of new parks, kerbing and channelling, new water mains, a new powerhouse and the establishment of the sewerage system.\n\nAt the opening of the East Gordon Street Sewerage Works on 25 January 1936 the chairman of the Mackay Harbour Board, Charles Frederick Bagley, paid tribute to the city council for its initiative in carrying out the scheme and to the consulting engineer AE Harding Frew who designed it.\n\nAlison Eavis Harding Frew (1883-1952) was a prominent Queensland civil engineer. Harding Frew's designed about 80 bridges throughout Queensland during his career. He was a consulting engineer in Melbourne during the 1920s and on the Pyrmont Power House at Sydney in the early 1940s. He was a consultant on the 1926 Brisbane Cross River Commission and was the designing engineer for the William Jolly Bridge in Brisbane, from November 1926 to 1932. From 1932 to 1935 he was the engineer for bridge construction on the Hornibrook Highway project, the bridge linking Sandgate and Redcliffe. Frew's design for the fully automated pump houses at Mackay, featuring castellated parapets, encompasses one of the basic principles of civil engineering, which is to design creative solutions that are both functional and aesthetically pleasing.\n\nAt the opening of the works Bagley reiterated the view of the day that, with the completion of the sewerage works and the Outer Harbour Scheme, Mackay would become even more important, and the Government Medical Officer, Dr Ernest Wesley Chenoweth, emphasised the public health advantages of the new sewerage scheme.\n\nSewage was pumped to the site via concrete or glazed pipes, where it was held in a well and treated with chlorine before being pumped out to sea at high tide. The main elements of sewage treatment included the separation of solids from fluids by screening and allowing the solids to settle in a tank. The solids were drawn off and disposed of, and the fluids were often treated before being discharged into a waterway or the ocean. Chlorine was used as a disinfectant.\n\nBy December 1933 a total of of sewer main, including a main crossing at Sandfly Creek near the East Gordon Street site, had been pegged out. Tenders had also been let for the construction of the pump well and pump house, the supply and installation of pump machinery, and the construction of the chlorinator.\n\nThe smaller building (the chlorinator) toward the front of the site is now used for storage. The larger building is still in use as a pump station with a submersible pump external to the structure and a switchboard inside the building. A modern deodoriser has been installed next to this building. Sewage is pumped from the station at East Gordon Street to a pump station in Sydney Street.\n\nThe East Gordon Street works forms part of a major network of 135 pump stations throughout Mackay and they are associated with a sewer main of more than , which ultimately connects to one of three waste water treatment plants in the city. Mackay Water, a business unit of Mackay City Council (now of the Mackay Regional Council), is responsible for the management of Mackay's sewerage scheme.\n\nThe 1936 Sewerage Works is located on a level allotment in East Gordon Street, Mackay. The two principal early structures on the site are the pump house and chlorinator building. These are small, white, concrete buildings with castellated parapets. The larger is to the rear and the smaller to the front of the block.\n\nThe buildings are constructed from off-form concrete with a horizontal, wide-board pattern showing. Vent stacks are built as miniature towers at some corners of the structures; other corners have matching engaged buttresses. They sit on concrete tanks, their floors about above the ground.\n\nThe smaller building (chlorinator) is rectangular in plan with the longer elevations facing south-west and north-east. Two square, metal-framed windows, covered with metal shutters open into both of these elevations. A square window into the north-west elevation is also covered with sheeting. The entrance to the building, in the south-east elevation, is via a concrete stair which ascends parallel to the wall finishing at a concrete landing. A wooden door opens from the landing. This is secured with a knob and a more recent lock. The top of the tank under the smaller building forms a raised semicircular concrete plinth which extends to the south-west. The tank contains a chamber with a tapered floor.\n\nInternally, the building comprises a single room with unpainted concrete walls. It contains two large items of early machinery. One of these has a small brass name plate bearing the words \"Filtration and water softening system\".\n\nThe larger building (pump house) is also rectangular in plan with the long elevations facing south-west and north-east. Access to the building is via a concrete stair to the narrow, south-east elevation. The stair ascends at right angles to the wall finishing at a long landing. At the top of the landing, a double metal door opens into the interior. It has a curved handle and is secured by a barrel bolt. A plaque above the door commemorates the commissioning of the works on 25 January 1936. The opposite elevation has a single small, metal- framed glass window with nine panes.\n\nThe south-west elevation has three square, steel-framed windows. These pivot around a horizontal axis at mid-height. The top of the tank attached to the side of the building projects to form a rectangular plinth. A steel stairway ascends at right angles to the south-eastern side of the tank finishing close to the wall of the building. Four metal shafts project from the top of the tank. Three of these have metal wheels fitted to the top; threaded lengths of rod extend above these wheels. Hinged, steel panels provide access into the tanks.\n\nThe opposite (north-east) elevation has two square windows and a narrow hatchway around in height. The windows are covered with sheeting which is boxed out from the wall a short distance. Two metal plates are bolted over the hatchway; a large square plate above a smaller rectangular one. Both plates have curved handles at each end.\n\nThe top of the tank forms a rectangular plinth extending from this elevation. There are small rectangular and arched openings into the base of the north-eastern end of the plinth.\n\nInternally, the larger building is painted light grey on the lower part of the wall and pale green above, separated by a black band. The floor comprises a series of steel plates with a metal ladder descending to a sub-floor area that is now disused. The building contains a grey cabinet housing electrical equipment. This is not considered to be of cultural heritage significance.\n\nThe building also contains a manually operated overhead crane. Transverse movement of the crane is achieved by means of a simple chain and wheel mechanism. A similar chain and wheel raises and lowers a hook. This mechanism comprises a pulley and two back-to-back hooks. One of the hooks secures the mechanism to the overhead cross beam of the crane; the other dangles downwards for holding the load.\n\nEast Gordon Street Sewerage Works was listed on the Queensland Heritage Register on 10 July 2009 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the evolution or pattern of Queensland's history.\n\nThe East Gordon Street Sewerage Works in Mackay, opened in 1936, was one of the first in regional Queensland. As such, it is important in demonstrating the progressive upgrading of basic infrastructure in regional Queensland, in particular the provision of sewerage schemes, which took place in regional towns and cities from the interwar period. Most other regional centres did not develop such schemes until after World War II, with some local government areas not constructing sewerage infrastructure until after 1960.\n\nAs one of the first sewerage works in regional Queensland, it is tangible evidence of the importance of Mackay as a regional centre in the 1930s and the influence the city enjoyed through their local Member of Parliament, William Forgan Smith, who was Premier at the time. During the 1920s and 1930s, Mackay was the fastest growing town in Queensland.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a particular class of cultural places.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a sewage treatment works of the interwar period. Characteristics include pump house, chlorination plant building, and the deliberate attempt to visually disguise the true purpose of these structures through the stylistic treatment of the exterior walls with their castellated parapets, which is unusual for such utilitarian structures.\n\nThe place also is important in demonstrating the work of prominent civil engineer AE Harding Frew, who designed the scheme. Frew made a substantial contribution to civil engineering infrastructure in Queensland including designing the William Jolly Bridge in Brisbane.\n"}
{"id": "48483838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48483838", "title": "Encapsulin nanocompartment", "text": "Encapsulin nanocompartment\n\nEncapsulin nanocompartments, or encapsulin protein cages, are spherical bacterial organelle-like compartments roughly 25-30 nm in diameter that are involved in various aspects of metabolism, in particular protecting bacteria from oxidative stress. Encapsulin nanocompartments are structurally similar to the HK97 bacteriophage and their function depends on the proteins loaded into the nanocompartment. The sphere is formed from 60 (for a 25 nm sphere) or 180 (for a 30 nm sphere) copies of a single protomer, termed encapsulin. Their structure has been studied in great detail using X-ray crystallography and cryo-electron microscopy.\n\nA number of different types of proteins have been identified as being loaded into encapsulin nanocompartments. Peroxidases or proteins similar to ferritins are the two most common types of cargo proteins. While most encapsulin nanocompartments contain only one type of cargo protein, in some species two or three types of cargo proteins are loaded.\n\nEncapsulins purified from \"Rhodococcus jostii\" can be assembled and disassembled with changes in pH. In the assembled state, the compartment enhances the activity of its cargo, a peroxidase enzyme.\n\nRecently, encapsulin nanocompartments have begun to receive considerable interest from bioengineers because of their potential to allow the targeted delivery of drugs, proteins, and mRNAs to specific cells of interest.\n"}
{"id": "21834646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21834646", "title": "European Organisation for Rare Diseases", "text": "European Organisation for Rare Diseases\n\nThe European Organisation for Rare Diseases (EURORDIS) is a non-governmental patient-driven alliance of patient organizations and individuals active in the field of rare diseases, that promotes research on rare diseases and commercial development of orphan drugs. EURORDIS is a dedicated to improving the quality of life of all people living with rare diseases in Europe. It was founded in 1997; it is supported by its members and by the French Muscular Dystrophy Association (AFM), the European Commission, corporate foundations and the health industry.\n\nThere are an estimated 20–30 million people living with rare diseases in Europe alone, and an estimated 6,000 rare diseases.\nEURORDIS represents more than 700 rare disease organizations in 63 different countries (of which 26 are EU Member States), covering more than 2,000 rare diseases.\n\nEURORDIS is a development of the patient self-advocacy movement, itself widely attributed to AIDS activism.\n\nEURORDIS was the founding partner of Rare Disease Day in 2008 and remains its lead coordinator.\n\nNational organizations with a similar focus include National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) in the United States, Canadian Organization for Rare Disorders (CORD) in Canada, Allianz Chronischer Seltener Erkrankungen (ACHSE) in Germany, and Federación Española de Enfermedades Raras (FEDER) in Spain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "995080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=995080", "title": "Galactorrhea", "text": "Galactorrhea\n\nGalactorrhea (also spelled galactorrhoea) (galacto- + -rrhea) or lactorrhea (lacto- + -rrhea) is the spontaneous flow of milk from the breast, unassociated with childbirth or nursing.\n\nGalactorrhea is reported to occur in 5–32% of women. Much of the difference in reported incidence can be attributed to different definitions of galactorrhea. Although frequently benign, it may be caused by serious underlying conditions and should be properly investigated. Galactorrhea also occurs in males, newborn infants and adolescents of both sexes.\n\nGalactorrhea can take place as a result of dysregulation of certain hormones. Hormonal causes most frequently associated with galactorrhea are hyperprolactinemia and thyroid conditions with elevated levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) or thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). No obvious cause is found in about 50% of cases.\n\nLactation requires the presence of prolactin, and the evaluation of galactorrhea includes eliciting a history for various medications or foods (methyldopa, opioids, antipsychotics, serotonin reuptake inhibitors, as well as licorice) and for behavioral causes (stress, and breast and chest wall stimulation), as well as evaluation for pregnancy, pituitary adenomas (with overproduction of prolactin or compression of the pituitary stalk), and hypothyroidism. Adenomas of the anterior pituitary are most often prolactinomas. Overproduction of prolactin leads to cessation of menstrual periods and infertility, which may be a diagnostic clue. Galactorrhea may also be caused by hormonal imbalances owing to birth control pills.\n\nGalactorrhea is also a side effect associated with the use of the second-generation H receptor antagonist cimetidine (Tagamet). Galactorrhea can also be caused by antipsychotics that cause hyperprolactinemia by blocking dopamine receptors responsible for control of prolactin release. Of these, risperidone is the most notorious for causing this complication. Case reports suggest proton-pump inhibitors have been shown to cause galactorrhea.\n\nNeonatal milk or witch's milk is milk secreted from the breasts of approximately 5% of newborn infants. It is considered a normal variation and no treatment or testing is necessary. In folklore, witch's milk was believed to be a source of nourishment for witches' familiar spirits.\n\n"}
{"id": "37791601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37791601", "title": "Gender, Work and Organization", "text": "Gender, Work and Organization\n\nGender, Work & Organization is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal. The journal was established in 1994 and is published by John Wiley & Sons. It covers research on the role of gender on the workfloor. The editors-in-chief are Deborah Kerfoot (Keele University), Ida Sabelis (Vrije Universiteit) and Alison Pullen (Macquarie University). In addition to the regular issues, the journal publishes several special issues per year.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.325, ranking it 10th out of 40 journals in the category \"Women's Studies\" and 93rd out of 192 in the category \"Management\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24468817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24468817", "title": "Hamlin's Wizard Oil", "text": "Hamlin's Wizard Oil\n\nHamlin's Wizard Oil was an American patent medicine sold as a cure-all under the slogan \"There is no Sore it will Not Heal, No Pain it will not Subdue.\"\n\nFirst produced in 1861 in Chicago by former magician John Austen Hamlin and his brother Lysander Butler Hamlin, it was primarily sold and used as a liniment for rheumatic pain and sore muscles, but was advertised as a treatment for pneumonia, cancer, diphtheria, earache, toothache, headache and hydrophobia. It was made of 50%-70% alcohol containing camphor, ammonia, chloroform, sassafras, cloves, and turpentine, and was said to be usable both internally and topically.\n\nTraveling performance troupes advertised the product in medicine shows across the Midwest, with runs as long as six weeks in a town. They used horse-drawn wagons and dressed in silk top hats, frock coats, pinstriped trousers, and patent leather shoes—with spats. They distributed song books at the shows and in druggists. Performers included James Whitcomb Riley, singer and composer Paul Dresser from Indiana, and southern gospel music progenitor Charles Davis Tillman.\n\nAt these gatherings John Austen Hamlin delivered lectures replete with humor borrowed from the writings of Robert Jones Burdette.\n\nGrinnell College research points out that the Hamlins claimed efficacy for Wizard Oil on not only human beings but also horses and cattle, one poster displaying an elephant drinking the stuff by lifting the bottle with the trunk. Bottles came in 35¢ and 75¢ sizes. Carl Sandburg inserted two versions of lyrics titled \"Wizard Oil\" together with a tune into his \"American Songbag\" (1927).\n\nIn 1916, Lysander's son Lawrence B. Hamlin of Elgin, by then manager of the firm, was fined $200 under the 1906 Pure Food and Drug Act for advertising that Hamlin's Wizard Oil could \"check the growth and permanently kill cancer.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35324576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35324576", "title": "Health in Liberia", "text": "Health in Liberia\n\nLiberia is one of the poorest countries in the world. Civil wars have killed around 250,000 people and displaced many more. The wars ended in 2003 but destroyed most of the country's healthcare facilities. Recovery proceeds but the majority of the population still live below the international poverty line. Life expectancy in Liberia is much lower than the world average. Communicable diseases are widespread, including tuberculosis, diarrhea, malaria, HIV, and Dengue. Female genital mutilation is widely practiced. Nearly a quarter of children under the age of five are malnourished and few people have access to adequate sanitation facilities. In 2009, government expenditure on health care per-capita was US$22, accounting for 10.6% of total GDP. In 2008, Liberia had only one doctor and 27 nurses per 100,000 people. It was ill-equipped to handle the outbreak of Ebola in 2014 and 2015.\nLiberia has 5,000 full-time or part-time health workers and 51 Liberian doctors to cater to a population of 3.8 million, according to the 2006 health survey. That is equivalent to about 76,000 civilians being attended to by 1 doctor. Most of the hospitals, clinics and equipment were destroyed due to its 14 years of civil conflict from 1989 all the way until 2003. The strengthening of the health sector faced financial problems. The government used only 16.8% of the total health expenditure in the country.\n\nLiberia has heavily relied on the international community for health infrastructure and aid. International relief organizations assisted the government to rebuild health facilities and provide essential health care for its citizens. The World Health Organization (WHO) donated equipment and helped provide and assist in vaccinating the population to prevent the spreading of many communicable disease.\n\nThe Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) funded 160 million US dollars to improve the health care system and increase the quality of immunization services in Liberia. Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), an international medical humanitarian organization, helped Liberia by operating free hospitals right after the civil war (2003) and treated more than 20,000 women and children per year.\n\nEbola virus is an extremely contagious and severely fatal illness among humans. The disease is transmitted from animals to humans and then spread throughout populations due to human interaction.\n\nAs part of a wider regional Ebola outbreak in 2014, Ebola was first reported in Liberia in Lofa and Nimba counties in late March. Not even a month later there were already six recorded deaths related to Ebola. Liberia had suffered 1,779 deaths from Ebola as of September 22, 2014. The Ebola crisis in Liberia continued in 2015 only this time the disease had been narrowed down to only two of its counties Grand Cape Mount County and Montserrado County. The ELWA-3 treatment centre for Ebola in Liberia opened in August was so swamped with patients affected by the disease that some were even having to be turned away. There were several deaths and positive tests in Liberia until in September the WHO declared Liberia free of the virus. However, in April 2016 it was reported that there was a fatality that tested positively to the Ebola virus and by 4 April, 84 people were under observation after two confirmed cases in their region (Monrovia).\n\nA considerable amount of the population suffers from mental illnesses or were mentally or physically traumatized, due to 14 years of intense civil conflict. A study by the American Medical Association (AMA) in 2008 had showed that a staggering 40% of adults had shown symptoms of major depressive disorders. 44% of adults also had symptoms of PTSD, or post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nThere was only one psychiatrist in the country at the time. It is impossible for 1 psychiatrist to be able to tend to over 1 million victims. In addition, E. S. Grant Mental Health Hospital was the only hospital for patients with mental illness. The hospital only had 80 beds, which left almost all those with traumatization unattended for.\n\nHIV/AIDS is one of the biggest diseases that has affected and is affecting Liberia to date. At any given time 33,000 people are living with HIV in Liberia of whom nearly 60% are female. Due to Liberia's incapability to treat this disease only about 1.2% of those affected survives the disease. The youth in Liberia is one of the biggest contributors to the extensive post-conflict HIV/AIDS problem. This is due to risky unprotected sex among adolescents without any form of contraception. A new social marketing condom program is being introduced to adolescents in vulnerable areas of the country in order to stop the spread of the disease and to minimize many preventable deaths throughout the country. In a 2012 study conducted by the African Health Sciences organisation over 20,400 condoms were provided to males and 316 to females in over 87 sites throughout Liberia. Communities were informed how to provide awareness of the dangers of HIV AIDS and how easily it can be prevented through the method of safe sex. Through the help of Population Services International in 2012 alone, the provision of contraception is estimated to have prevented 4.7 million unintended pregnancies and 13,600 maternal deaths, and to have provided 19 million couples with protection.\n\nLiberia is one of the most poverty-stricken countries in the world. The national human development organisation has stated that 75% of Liberia's people live of less than a dollar a day. Malnutrition is widespread: 40% of children have unnatural stunted growth and 7% of Liberia's population have highly acute malnutrition. This high level of starvation and malnutrition is linked to a major lack of food and the high level of early teenager mothers who have little knowledge of how to look after or treat their babies. The teenage mothers are usually single, sometimes due to rape. These unprivileged teenage mothers are too embarrassed to even breastfeed their babies to supply the nutrients they need to survive. They feel completely robbed of their freedom. One of the most major contributors to a dire lack of food in Liberia is Ebola. Ebola is heavily attacking Liberia's food supply leaving 4.1 million people to try and survive the epidemic on their own accord, with many families or even kids on their own having to travel long distances to try access clean water or bags of wheat or flour for their families in order to even try survive. 85% of families in Liberia have been forced to eat fewer meals, even as low as just one meal a day.\n\nUNICEF and non-governmental organizations, or NGOs, are working with the Ministry of Health to increase the awareness malnutrition, and make it a top priority of the country. Providing nutrition services is a major priority for the government, and it forms an important part of the National Health Policy. In 2008, the health ministry developed a nutrition policy, which became a good start from the service’s promise. With this new policy, the health ministry aims to reduce the 39% chronic malnutrition rate by one-third by 2011, and fix one of the greatest issues of Liberia.\n\nAfter the thirteen year long civil war, populations in the slums of Liberia skyrocketed. At this point around 60% of the population, or 2.5 million people, do not meet the poverty line. The people were left with little choice of where to obtain water or sanitation. To date Liberia still lives with bad sanitation conditions, with up to 10 people sharing the same toilet without disinfectant and an extreme lack of clean consumable water. For every four people living in Liberia, there is one living without access to any clean drinking water or substantial sanitation. Every five deaths that occur in Liberia is due to people drinking contaminated drinking water. Due to extreme public defecation, the World Health Organisation discovered that 58% of Liberia's water was contaminated with E coli. The E coli present in the water cause many illnesses such as diarrhea and vomiting throughout the population. The water crisis in Liberia has reached catastrophic levels. Action has been taken by many non-profit organizations, one of which is called Waves for Water who are providing water filters for clean drinking water to over 60,000 Liberian people.\n\nAfrica accounts for 16% of all dengue fever infections in the world. Dengue fever has very limited attention in Liberia. There is a lack of laboratory research and the disease frequently goes undiagnosed, which is critical as without early detection dengue fever can be fatal. It is the \"Aedes\" type of mosquito that transmits four different types of fatal dengue fevers in Liberia.\n\nIt is estimated that around half of all girls in Liberia have been subject to female genital mutilation, which is culturally ingrained in their society. It is seen as an important precursor to marriage, to ensure a girl’s purity. It causes numerous health problems and can sometimes be fatal. Reuters reported on July 28, 2016, that Liberia’s parliament removed a ban on female genital mutilation from a new domestic violence law. The law listed it as a criminal offense, when it was first submitted to lawmakers in September 2015. Opposition from several politicians in April led to the FGM provision being removed from the bill.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6748115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6748115", "title": "Health information management", "text": "Health information management\n\nHealth information management (HIM) is information management applied to health and health care. It is the practice of acquiring, analyzing and protecting digital and traditional medical information vital to providing quality patient care. With the widespread computerization of health records, traditional (paper-based) records are being replaced with electronic health records (EHRs). The tools of health informatics and health information technology are continually improving to bring greater efficiency to information management in the health care sector. Both hospital information systems and Human Resource for Health Information System (HRHIS) are common implementations of HIM.\n\nHealth information management professionals plan information systems, develop health policy, and identify current and future information needs. In addition, they may apply the science of informatics to the collection, storage, analysis, use, and transmission of information to meet legal, professional, ethical and administrative records-keeping requirements of health care delivery. They work with clinical, epidemiological, demographic, financial, reference, and coded healthcare data. Health information administrators have been described to \"play a critical role in the delivery of healthcare in the United States through their focus on the collection, maintenance and use of quality data to support the information-intensive and information-reliant healthcare system\".\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) stated that the proper collection, management and use of information within healthcare systems \"will determine the system's effectiveness in detecting health problems, defining priorities, identifying innovative solutions and allocating resources to improve health outcomes\".\n\nHealth information management's standards history is dated back to the introduction of the American Health Information Management Association, founded in 1928 \"when the American College of Surgeons established the Association of Record Librarians of North America (ARLNA) to 'elevate the standards of clinical records in hospitals and other medical institutions.'\"\n\nIn 1938, AHIMA was known as American Association of Medical Record Librarians (AAMRL) and its members were known as medical record experts or librarians who studied medical record science. The goal was to raise the standards of records keeping in hospitals and other healthcare facilities. The individuals involved in this profession were promoters for the successful management of clinical records to guarantee accuracy and precision. Over time, the organization's name changed to reflect the evolving field of health information management practices, eventually becoming the American Health Information Management Association. The association's current name is meant to cover the wide variety of areas which health professionals work in today.\n\nAHIMA members affect the quality of patient information and patient care at every touch point in the healthcare delivery cycle. They often serve in bridge roles, connecting clinical, operational, and administrative functions.\n\nThe Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) was organized in 1961 as the Hospital Management Systems Society (HMSS), an independent, unincorporated, nonprofit, voluntary association of individuals. It was preceded by increasing amounts of management engineering activity in healthcare during the 1950s, when teachings of Frederick Winslow Taylor and Frank Bunker Gilbreth, Sr. began to attract the attention of health leaders.\n\nThe HIMSS grew to include chapters, membership categories, publications, conventions, and continues to grow in different parts of the world via its Europe, Asia Pacific, and Middle Eastern branches.\n\nThe Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM) defines standards which higher education health information management and technology programs must meet to qualify for accreditation. Students who graduate from an accredited associate's, bachelor's or certificate program are qualified to sit for their respective exams for certification as a Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) – via graduation from an accredited associate or certification program or Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA), which requires education through an accredited bachelor or certification program. Competency requirements are maintained by CAHIIM in their associate degree Entry-Level Competencies and Baccalaureate Degree Entry-Level Competencies definitions.\n\nThe electronic health record has been continually expressed as an evolvement of health record-keeping. Because it is electronic, this means of record keeping has been both supported and debated in the health professional community and within the public realm.\n\nIn the United States, 89% of those who responded to a recent Wall Street Journal poll described themselves as \"Very/Somewhat Confident\" in their health care provider who used electronic health records compared to 71% of respondents who responded positively about their providers who didn't or don't use electronic health records. As of 2008, more than fifty-percent of Chief Information Officers polled listed that they wanted ambulatory electronic health records in order to have the health information record available to move across each stage of health care.\n\nHealth information managers are charged with the protection of patient privacy and are responsible for training their employees in the proper handling and usage of the confidential information entrusted to them. With the rise of technology's importance in healthcare, health information managers must remain competent with the use of information databases that generate crucial reports for administrators and physicians.\n\nThe requisites and accreditation processes for health information management education and professional activity vary across jurisdictions.\n\nIn the United States, the CAHIIM requires continued accreditation for accredited programs in health information management. The current standard is that accreditation may be maintained with periodic site visits, submission of an annual report, informing CAHIIM of adverse changes within the program and paying CAHIIM administrative fees. HIM students may opt to participate in a full-time bridge program called the Joint Bachelor of Science/Masters Program. With this program, students can achieve both the Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management and the Master of Health Services Administration Program (BSHIM/MHSA). The full-time bridge program allows students to achieve both degrees in five years. Students pursuing the BSHIM/MHSA will be prepared to assume management and executive positions in health-related organizations such as: hospitals, managed care organizations, health information system developers and vendors, and pharmaceutical companies, and bring their knowledge in HIM to these positions.\n\nIn Canada, graduates of Canadian Health Information Management Association (CHIMA) programs are eligible to write a national certification examination to pursue a profession in HIM.\n\nThere are many programs that are also available online. Online students collaborate with in-class students using internet technology. With online learning, students are allowed to go through the programs at their own pace. Online students are included in class through group lectures that are recorded and put online, discussion boards and are members of group projects with in-class students. Some online students are even allowed to attend some classes on campus and take some classes online.\n\nThe CAHIIM lists accredited online programs on its website.\n\nEducation is an important aspect in being successful in the world of health information management. Aside from initial credentials, health information professionals may wish to pursue a Masters of Health Information Management, Masters of Business Administration, Masters of Health Administration, or other Masters programs in health data management, information technology and systems, and organization and management. Gaining further education advances the health professional's career and qualifies the individual for upper-management positions.\n\nIn Canada, current HIM employees are mostly called the \"Health Information Management Professionals\", with the designation of \"Certified Health Information Manager\" (CHIM). The accrediting association here is the Canadian Health Information Management Association (CHIMA). The following list below consists of Canadian post-secondary schools that have given full accreditation for their HIM programs from CHIMA:\n\n\n\n\nHealthcare quality and safety require that the right information be available at the right time to support patient care and health system management decisions. Gaining consensus on essential data content and documentation standards is a necessary prerequisite for high-quality data in the interconnected healthcare system of the future. Continuous quality management of data standards and content is key to ensuring that information is usable and actionable.\n\n\nThe accuracy of data depends on the manual or computer information system design for collecting, recording, storing, processing, accessing and displaying data as well as the ability and follow- through of the people involved in each phase of these activities. Everyone involved with documenting or using health information is responsible for its quality. According to AHIMA’s Data Quality Management Model, there are four key processes for data:\n\n\nEach aspect is analyzed with 10 different data characteristics:\n\n\nHIM is a very broad and successful field for health care professionals. There are several career opportunities in Health Information Management and many different traditional and non-traditional settings for an HIM professional to work within.\n\n\nProfessional health information managers manage and construct health information programs to guarantee they accommodate medical, legal, and ethical standards. They play a crucial role in the maintenance, collection, and analyzing of data that is received by doctors, nurses, and other healthcare players. In return these healthcare data contributors rely on the information to deliver quality healthcare. Managers must work with a group of information technicians to guarantee that the patient's medical records are accurate and are available when needed.\n\nIn the United States, health information managers are typically certified as a Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA) after achieving a bachelor's degree in health informatics or health information management from a school accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM) and after passing their respective certification exam. The Certified Health Informatics Systems Professional (CHISP) certification offered by American Society of Health Informatics Managers (ASHIM) is to credit a working level IT or clinical professional who is able to support physician adoption of Health IT. A CHISP professional needs to process knowledge of the health care environment, Health IT, IT, and soft skills including communication skills.\n\nRHIAs usually assume a managerial position that interacts with all levels of an organization that use patient data in decision making and everyday operations. They may work in a broad range of settings that span the continuum of healthcare including office based physician practices, nursing homes, home health agencies, mental health facilities, and public health agencies.\n\nHealth information managers may specialize in registry management, data management, and data quality among other areas.\n\nMedical records (MR) and Health information technicians (HIT) are described as having the following duties according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' Occupational Outlook Handbook: \nassemble patients' health information including medical history, symptoms, examination results, diagnostic tests, treatment methods, and all other healthcare provider services. Technicians organize and manage health information data by ensuring its quality, accuracy, accessibility, and security. They regularly communicate with physicians and other healthcare professionals to clarify diagnoses or to obtain additional information.\n\nThe International Labour Organization's International Standard Classification of Occupations further notes: \"Occupations included in this category require knowledge of medical terminology, legal aspects of health information, health data standards, and computer- or paper-based data management as obtained through formal education and/or prolonged on-the-job training.\n\nMRHITs usually work in hospitals. However they also work in a variety of other healthcare settings, including office based physician practices, nursing homes, home health agencies, mental health facilities, and public health agencies. Technicians who specialize in coding are called medical coders or coding specialists.\n\nIn the United States, health information technicians are certified as a Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) after completing an associate degree in health information technology from a school accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM) before they may take their certification exam.\n"}
{"id": "30943915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30943915", "title": "Herman Wedel Major", "text": "Herman Wedel Major\n\nHerman Wedel Major (23 February 1814 – 26 September 1854) was a Norwegian psychiatrist. He is regarded as the father of the first Norwegian psychiatric hospital, Gaustad Hospital (\"Gaustad sykehus\") and of the Norwegian Mental Health Act of 1848 regarding mental illness.\nMajor was born at the Kristiansand borough of Oddernes in Vest-Agder, Norway. He was one of nine children born to Irish immigrant Robert Gonsalvo Major (1766–1839) and Benedicte Sophie Weidemann (1783–1859). His father had left Ireland in the aftermath of the Irish Rebellion of 1798.\n\nMajor became a medical student in 1832 and was licensed as a physician in November 1842.\nHe received a grant from the Norwegian Parliament and traveled to institutions in Schleswig, Great Britain, France and Belgium to study the conditions for the mentally ill (1843-1845). Major was for several years a doctor at the Oslo Hospital and was authorized as manager there from 1851.\nDuring 1845, the Norwegian Parliament allocated funds to purchase land for an intended state asylum. In 1847, Gaustad outside Christiania (now Oslo) submitted a plan and in 1850 it was formally decided that the institution should be built there. Gaustad Hospital was not completed until 1855, after the death of Herman Wedel Major.\n\nIn 1850, Major married Ida Cathrine Grüning (1821-1854). They had two daughters. He and his family all died in the ship collision between the American Paddle steamer \"SS Arctic\" and the French steamship \"SS Vesta\" on 26 September 1854 off the coast of Newfoundland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2186920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2186920", "title": "Human Tissue Authority", "text": "Human Tissue Authority\n\nThe Human Tissue Authority (HTA) is an executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health of the United Kingdom. It regulates the removal, storage, use and disposal of human bodies, organs and tissue for a number of scheduled purposes such as research, transplantation, and education and training.\n\nIt was created by the Human Tissue Act 2004 and came into being on 1 April 2005 and its statutory functions began on 1 April 2006. The authority was originally chaired by Baroness Hayman followed, in 2006, by Shirley Harrison, from January 2010-2018 by Baroness Diana Warwick and since March 2018 by Nicola Blackwood.\n\nIts objectives are to:\n\nIt also acts as the UK competent authority under the EU Tissue and Cells Directives.\n\nThe Human Tissue Act 2004 repeals and replaces the Human Tissue Act 1961, the Anatomy Act 1984 and the Human Organ Transplants Act 1989 as they relate to England and Wales, and the corresponding Orders in Northern Ireland. The ULTRA (UK agency) and the post of HM Inspector of Anatomy were abolished and their functions transferred to the Authority.\n\nThe Act makes \"consent\" the fundamental principle underpinning the lawful storage and use of body parts, organs and tissue from the living or the deceased for specified health-related purposes and public display. It also covers the removal of such material from the deceased. It lists the purposes for which consent is required (the \"scheduled purposes\").\n\nThe Act notably prohibited private individuals from covertly collecting biological samples, such as hair and fingernails, for DNA analysis, but excluded medical and criminal investigations from the offence.\n\nAccording to the Human Tissue Act, the HTA and its authority are governed by a code of conduct for the handling of human tissue, and the bodies of the deceased, but does not give the HTA authority over exhumed remains from archaeological sites.\n\nThe Act governs England, Wales and Northern Ireland. There is separate legislation in Scotland, the Human Tissue (Scotland) Act 2006 and the Authority performs certain tasks on behalf of the Scottish Government (approval of living donation and licensing of establishments storing tissue for human application).\n\nThe Authority consists of a Chair and eleven Members. Nine members have been appointed by the Secretary of State for Health, one appointed by the Welsh Government, and one member is appointed by the Department of Health, Social Services and Public Safety in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe professional members of the board come from medical and scientific backgrounds, and the lay members bring a wide range of business, commercial and public sector experience.\n\nThe members of the authority are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "5522905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5522905", "title": "Hypobetalipoproteinemia", "text": "Hypobetalipoproteinemia\n\nHypobetalipoproteinemia is a disorder consisting of low levels of LDL cholesterol or apolipoprotein B, below the 5th percentile. The patient can have hypobetalipoproteinemia and simultaneously have high levels of HDL cholesterol.\n\nNotably, in people who do not have the genetic disorder hypobetalipoproteinemia, a low cholesterol level may be a marker for poor nutrition, wasting disease, cancer, hyperthyroidism, and liver disease.\n\nOne form is thought to be caused by mutated apolipoprotein B.\n\nAnother form is associated with microsomal triglyceride transfer protein which causes abetalipoproteinemia.\n\nA third form, chylomicron retention disease (CRD), is associated with SARA2.\n\nTypically in hypobetalipoproteinemia, plasma cholesterol levels will be around 80–120 mg/dL, LDL cholesterol will be around 50–80 mg/dL.\nEarly high doses of vitamin E in infants and children has shown to be effective.\n"}
{"id": "15754659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15754659", "title": "List of Aedes species", "text": "List of Aedes species\n\nThe mosquito genus \"Aedes\" includes the following species. Where known, the listings indicate whether the species bites humans, and any pathogens that the species is known to carry.\n\nnames\n"}
{"id": "48100399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48100399", "title": "List of disability studies journals", "text": "List of disability studies journals\n\nThis is a list of academic journals in the field of disability studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "32312308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32312308", "title": "Louis Bonduelle Foundation", "text": "Louis Bonduelle Foundation\n\nThe Louis Bonduelle Foundation, set up in 2004, is the Bonduelle group's corporate foundation. It acts internationally with the aim of changing eating habits in a sustainable manner, by providing everyone with the means of bringing vegetables into their daily life.\n\nIt undertakes to inform, raise awareness, support research and act on the ground.\n\nThe Louis Bonduelle Foundation was set up in 2004 for two reasons. Public health problems linked to poor diet, especially obesity, continue to grow worryingly whereas products guaranteeing good nutritional balance are available throughout the year at affordable prices. It was in this context of misinformation and lack of motivation in terms of vegetable consumption that Bonduelle decided to set up its corporate foundation.\n\nTwo Bonduelle group subsidiaries are the founders of the corporate foundation: Bonduelle SAS and Bonduelle Conserve International.\n\nThe Foundation bears the name of Louis Bonduelle, who started the first Bonduelle company. In 1853, Louis Bonduelle-Dalle and his friend Louis Lesaffre-Roussel decided to form a partnership to start a grain and juniper distillery under the name of \"Lesaffre et Bonduelle, Alcools de l’Abbaye\"\n\n\nThe Louis Bonduelle Foundation is managed by a Board of Directors with seven members appointed and reappointed by the founder; their positions are unpaid. There are three independent members chosen by the founder for their experience in the corporate foundation's area of work and four members are representatives of the Bonduelle group.\n\nThe Louis Bonduelle Foundation encourages scientific research (medical, nutritional, sociological and agronomic) to better understand the interactions between eating habits, vegetables and health. Two Research Awards are granted: the Louis Bonduelle Prize for young researchers and the ECOG/Louis Bonduelle Foundation Prize for the fight against child obesity. The Louis Bonduelle Foundation is also joint-founder of the Fondation Coeur et Artères (Heart and Arteries Foundation) which is involved in the fight against cardiovascular diseases.\n\nEach year, the Louis Bonduelle Foundation organises a day conference based on a scientific subject related to vegetables and nutrition. This event, known as the Louis Bonduelle Foundation Conference, involves those concerned with changes in eating habits such as experts, research directors and project developers.\n\nMany actions are launched by schools and associations to facilitate people's access to fruit and vegetables. The Louis Bonduelle Foundation has supported these initiatives since 2008 with two calls for proposals per year.\nIn addition, the Foundation also carries out its own projects aimed at improving eating habits. Eleven initiatives have been launched in Europe since 2005 for different categories of people such as children, the elderly or people lacking job security.\n\nThrough its website, and its exhibitions and conferences, the Louis Bonduelle Foundation provides information to the general public, health professionals, teachers, etc. \nThis relates to recent news on nutrition, the benefits of vegetables, and simple acts to improve consumption of fruit and vegetables. The Foundation also gives information on the different projects it supports and its various calls for proposals.\n\n"}
{"id": "24595709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24595709", "title": "Mania errabunda", "text": "Mania errabunda\n\nMania errabunda or \"Restless madness\" is a name for the tendency of senile people (usually elderly) to wander aimlessly away from home. The name is not much used now. The term is also used in conjunction with drug abuse and alcoholism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50934776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50934776", "title": "MedAccred", "text": "MedAccred\n\nMedAccred is an accreditation program for critical process manufacturing operations in the production of medical devices MedAccred is an industry managed program with the medical device industry having responsibility for all decisions regarding program operations, development, and the decision to award accreditations. The MedAccred program is administered on behalf of the medical device industry by the Performance Review Institute (PRI), a not-for-profit affiliate of SAE International. Participants in the MedAccred program consist of medical device OEMs, contract manufacturers and suppliers who work together to develop industry-wide audit criteria and provide accreditation of critical manufacturing process suppliers to improve product quality.\n\nMedAccred was created following a medical device industry roundtable in held in Chicago, IL in December 2012. Companies present at the roundtable included Abbot Laboratories, Baxter International, Beckman Coulter, Boston Scientific, Brunk Industries, DePuy Synthes, GE Healthcare, Medtronic, Paragon Medical, Philips, Stryker, Symmetry Medical, Terumo Cardiovascular Systems and Zimmer Biomet. Proof of concept audits based on the Nadcap program audit criteria were conducted in 2013. Briefings on the MedAccred program were held with the FDA Center for Devices and Radiological Health’s (CDRH) Office of Compliance and the FDA’s Office of Global Operations within the Office of the Commissioner.The initial subscribing companies were Johnson & Johnson, Philips and Stryker. By 2018, the list of subscribing companies had grown to include Baxter, Boston Scientific and Medtronic, in addition to the initial subscribing companies. \n\nIn 2014, the initial technical Task Groups were created in the critical process areas of Electronics – PCBAs, Electronics – Cable and Wire Harness, Heat Treating, Sterilization and Welding. The Plastics Task Group and Process Validation sub-team were created in 2015. By 2018, the list of critical process areas had grown to include Plastics - Extrusion, Plastics - Injection Molding, Plastics - Mechanical Assembly, Electronics - Printed Boards (Bare Boards), and Sterile Device Packaging as well. \n\nThe first MedAccred accreditation was issued to Solar Atmospheres of Souderton, PA (USA) for Heat Treating in 2015. The US FDA subsequently recognized the Aerospace Heat Treating Standard AMS 2750, which is published by SAE International and used by MedAccred. \n\nAccreditations have since been granted to companies in Mexico, Costa Rica, China, United Kingdom, France, Romania, Austria and Malaysia as well.\n\nMedAccred was added to the AdvaMed Resource Center, Case for Quality Library in August 2015 and has since been noted in a number of industry publications as being a significant activity for the medical devices industry. The US Federal Government has been supportive of the MedAccred program, investing in the preparedness of the supply chain for the MedAccred audit and accreditation process and setting up the MedMMAP (Medical Manufacturers MedAccred Accreditation Pathway) to support this effort.\n"}
{"id": "22168869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22168869", "title": "Melafix", "text": "Melafix\n\nMelafix (a proprietary name) is an all-natural aquarium antibiotic consisting of an essential oil of the Melaleuca genus. Contrary to popular opinion it is not made from the common Tea tree, \"Melaleuca alternifolia\", but from \"Melaleuca leucadendra\", also known as the Cajeput Tree. This is confirmed by the manufacturer's Safety Data Sheet.\n\nIt is a wide-range antibiotic product, and thus is effective for a wide variety of mild gram positive bacterial infections, such as fin rot. However, it is generally ineffective against aquatic parasites and is typically used for treating the wounds caused by them in order to prevent secondary infection by other microorganisms.\n\nSome consider there to be real dangers with the use of Melafix in fish aquariums. Being that Melafix is an oil based product, it is said that the oil can make it difficult for fish that breathe air. There are theories for why this happens, but what has been shown is if proper water parameters are maintained, there's generally not an issue. \n\nMelafix needs to be used as directed. Many issues that come from the use of Melafix is the fact that it is being used incorrectly. The medication is a mild antibiotic. It can be used to treat mild infections, but used in other ways than intended, could result in the real problem not being treated correctly and Melafix appearing to be the cause of the issue. Knowing the infection and properly treating is a must.\n"}
{"id": "51984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51984", "title": "Models of deafness", "text": "Models of deafness\n\nVarious models of deafness are rooted in either the social or biological sciences. These are the \"medical\" (or \"infirmity\") \"model\", the \"social model\", and the \"cultural model\". The model used can affect how deaf persons are treated and their identity. In the medical model, deafness is viewed as an undesirable condition, to be so treated. Within the social model, the design of the deaf person's environment is viewed as the major disabling factor. In the cultural model, the Deaf belong to a culture in which they are neither infirm nor disabled.\n\nPhysicians and scientists are often labeled as adherents of the medical model by Deaf individuals, who contrast it with their own cultural model. However, many of those who are so labeled dispute its validity. The social model seeks to illuminate the difficulties that deaf individuals face in their social environment.\n\nThe medical model of deafness is viewed by advocates for the deaf as originating from medical, social welfare and majority cultural notions of the absence of the ability to hear as being an illness or a physical disability. It stems from a more comprehensive and far-reaching medical model of disability. People who experience hearing loss after acquiring a mastery of spoken language usually identify with this model. Also, people who describe themselves as \"hard-of-hearing\" or \"hearing impaired\" are likely to identify with it.\n\nThe medical model encompasses the idea that an individual affected by hearing impairment may be admired for their accommodation of the \"infirmity\" (i.e., illness), or their courage in struggling with a condition seen as undesirable. Deafness is therefore conceptualized from a \"personal tragedy\" stance, with implicit questions naturally arising such as: \"By what criteria and by whom is the impairment construed as an infirmity; how did the infirmity arise; what are the risks and benefits of the available treatment, if any; what can be done to minimize the disabling effects of the infirmity?\"\n\nMedical ethics and law dictate that it is up to the patient (or the patient's legal representative) to decide the treatments he or she wishes. For this very reason, the question as to whether deafness is physical impairment or personal tragedy to be overcome is secondary to medical doctors and health professions. Similarly, doctors and scientists who engage in research are doing so simply because there is demand for information and for techniques which can restore hearing.\n\nThe view that deafness is a \"disability\" has economic consequences in political environments concerned with social welfare. It is the basis on which the governments in many developed countries provide financial support for the cost of cochlear implants and other therapies. It is also the basis on which governments provide deaf people with financial support and educational services which are not available for members of other cultural minority groups.\n\nThe social model of deafness is a part of a more comprehensive and far-reaching social model of disability whose advocates seek to distinguish and distance from the medical model. The concept of social disability arose in large part from deaf and disabled people themselves, their families, friends, and associated social and political networks. Invoked here are professionals in the human services fields and the social sciences instead of physicians and the physical sciences. In defining disability, proponents of this model make two assertions concerning the view of disability as oppression:\n\n\nDisabled people affirm that the design of the environment often disables them. In better-designed environments, they are disabled less, or not at all. This affirmation arises in part from the understanding that while medical intervention can improve the health issues inherent in certain forms of disability, it does not address societal issues that prevail regardless of the extent or success of medical intervention. In conjunction with this view of changing the environment from a disabling to an enabling atmosphere, advocates of the social model persevere in the de-institutionalization of disabled persons by encouraging maximum integration with non-disabled peers, especially, but not exclusively, in the school environment.\n\nThe cultural model of deafness arises from, but is not limited to, deaf people themselves, especially congenitally deaf people whose primary language is the sign language of their nation or community, as well as their children, families, friends and other members of their social networks. Invoked also are people within the social science professions which seek to identify, define and conceptualize the very essence of what constitutes a culture or cultural model of human experience. Also included are professionals in mediating roles between cultures, notably persons engaged in activities of simultaneous interpretation, and schools. This cultural model of deafness represents the natural evolution of the social networks of a minority language group. In this view the conceptualization of deafness is seen from a \"community asset\" stance. From the conceptual framework of the cultural model come implicit questions, such as: How is deafness influenced by the physical and social environment in which it is embedded; What are the interdependent values, mores, art forms, traditions, organizations, and language that characterize this culture?\n\nBoth the medical model and the social model are seen, at the least, to be in conflict with, and at the most, inapplicable to deafness when viewed from the cultural model of deafness.\n\nIn contrast to the medical model of Deafness, the deaf community, rather than embrace the view that deafness is a \"personal tragedy\", sees all aspects of the deaf experience as positive. The birth of a deaf child is seen as a cause for celebration.\n\nDeaf people point to the perspective on child rearing they share with hearing people. Both hearing and deaf parents understand that it is easier for a hearing parent to raise a hearing child because of their intimate understanding of the hearing state of being. It follows that a deaf parent will have an easier experiences raising a deaf child since deaf parents have an intimate understanding of the deaf state of being. Evidence of deaf parental success is revealed in scholastic achievement. Deaf children who have deaf parents that communicate in sign language perform better than all other deaf children in academic achievement and acquisition of the majority language regardless of the manner in which the children adapted to deafness. This includes children who adapted using speech and lipreading, prosthetic devices such as the cochlear implant, artificial language systems such as Signing Exact English and Cued Speech, and hearing aid technology.\n\nAccording to research in the social sciences, membership in the deaf community is a matter of culturally determined behaviors and not of medical diagnosis. Thus membership is not seen as the act of admittance by an insider group or even by anyone at all, but by examining individual behavior to determine how closely it resembles the known culturally determined behaviors found in the community of deaf people. Since sign language stands as the single most valued aspect of deaf culture, it reveals whether an individual belongs to this language minority in the same manner as embracing the Spanish language reveals identity with Hispanic-American culture, another example of a language minority. Groups disadvantaged by majority culture and practices, such as the deaf community, have commonalities with other groups. For example, people with disabilities, gay people, and women are not linguistic minorities, as are members of the deaf community, since their culturally determined behaviors do not center on a unifying language as in the communities of Hispanic-Americans and Native-Americans. Gay culture and American deaf culture, both of which experience the disadvantages of being minority cultures, bear resemblance to one another in that most members of these two minority groups do not share their minority identity with their parents and cannot develop it at home. However, gay culture does not rally around a unifying language as is seen with a minority language group like the community of deaf people.\n\nMembers of the deaf communities most certainly do find a parallel with peoples with disabilities. However, a line is drawn in deaf culture in the case of disabilities when \"respecting that unique organization of life while regretting the conditions that create it\" represents a conception of the highest quality of life. It is a conception that is considered inappropriate in deaf culture.\n\nThe residential schools for deaf children provide an example for illustration. The residential schools serve as a vital link in the transmission of deaf culture and language and typically provide a rich quality of life. Deaf cultural values find abhorrent occasional proposals to dismantle the residential schools since they are considered the best possible environment, the highest quality of life, in which to acquire and enrich sign language fluency and pass on Deaf cultural values that serve as tools and solutions to challenges in a predominantly hearing world. This view sharply contrasts with the Social Model of Disability, which finds abhorrent segregated schooling of disabled children in special residential schools and prefers the \"all-inclusive\" environment of neighborhood schools.\n\nThe deaf cultural model points out that these acts also demonstrate an example of respecting and embracing the totality of the deaf experience rather than regretting it. The conflict or inappropriateness of the Social Model rests on this and many other examples in which efforts to promote inclusion at every level produces negative impact on deaf people. Proponents of the social model, understandably, are generally aware of this dilemma and have a great respect for deaf cultural views.\n\nAs there is a deaf community with its own language and culture, so there is a cultural frame in which to be deaf is not to be infirm or disabled. To the contrary, it is an asset of and for the deaf community to be deaf in behavior, values, knowledge and fluency in sign language. It is within this community bonded by shared culture and language that lives defined by diagnosis, disadvantages imposed by majority beliefs and practices, and disabilities tied to inappropriate models of language and social enrichment, that, according to the cultural model of deafness, deaf people find themselves both enabled and socially advantaged. The experience of a language minority such as the deaf thus seen, amounts to a social disadvantage no more or less troubling than it would be for any language minority. In terms of its effect on mental health, deaf cultural attitudes conclude that a minority language group's disadvantages are preferred to a lifetime of viewing one's self or one's group as infirm or disabled.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3598125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3598125", "title": "National Survey of Health &amp; Development", "text": "National Survey of Health &amp; Development\n\nThe National Survey of Health & Development is a Medical Research Council (MRC) longitudinal survey of people born in Britain in March 1946. It is \"the longest continually running major birth cohort study in the world and is one of the longest-running studies of human development. \"\n\nThe 1946 birth cohort study (which became known later as National Survey of Health & Development) was set up by J. W. B. Douglas less than a year after the end of the second world war. The original promoters of this survey had been the Population Investigation Committee with help from the Royal College of Obstetricians and some funding from the Nuffield Foundation and the National Birthday Trust Fund. The survey began with interviews of 13 687 mothers who had given birth in the England, Wales and Scotland during the week of 3–9 March 1946 (91% of births that week). Originally this survey was intended as a one-off project and was designed to answer questions such as;why had the national fertility rate in Britain been consistently dropping?; were the costs of giving birth a deterrent to having children?; and how well were the existing midwifery and obstetric medical services in Britain working?\n\nUnknown to the project initiators, this project coincided with the start of the post-World War II baby boom so the question of low fertility rates was not explored. The initial results showed enormous differences in birth outcomes between different classes in Britain - for example, the babies from mothers in the lowest social class were 70% more likely to be born dead than in the highest social class. The results from this survey influenced the decisions made when setting up the British National Health Service in 1948. The survey continued with a sample (which excluded illegitimate children and twins) of 5 362 of the children using regular follow-ups to explore the impact of a National Health Service on health and to explore differences in child development by factors like social class, health and education. As of 2016 it has continued and has itself developed into a study of ageing. The regularly updated information about this cohort also enables comparison with data from other longitudinal studies in Britain and elsewhere.\n\nThe mission of the Unit is to realise the scientific potential of the NSHD as a world class, interdisciplinary life course study by:\n\nThe NSHD was formerly based at the London School of Economics (under the direction of Dr. James Douglas and at the University of Bristol), and then the Department of Epidemiology and Public Health at University College London (under the direction of Professor Michael Wadsworth). In 2016, the survey was operating under the MRC Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing (which was established in 2008) and based in Bloomsbury, London, England, directed by Professor Diana Kuh.\n\nMembers of the 1946 birth cohort held 65th and 70th birthday party celebrations in 2011 and 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58667546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58667546", "title": "Outdoor fitness", "text": "Outdoor fitness\n\nOutdoor fitness consists of exercise undertaken outside a building for the purpose of improving physical fitness. It contrasts with exercise undertaken inside a gym or health club for the same purpose. The activity may be undertaken in a park, in the wilderness, or other outdoor location. The popularity of outdoor fitness grew rapidly in the second-half of the twentieth century and grew as a commercial consumer market in the twenty-first century\n\nIn nineteenth-century Germany, \"Turnplatz\", an outdoor space for gymnastics, were promoted by German educator Friedrich Jahn and the Turners, a political and gymnastic movement. After the Second World War, as people did less exercise in their daily and work lives, individualistic, health-oriented physical and recreational activities such as jogging began to prevail. The Royal Canadian Air Force Exercise Plans, written by developed by Bill Orban and published in 1961, and Kenneth Cooper's book \"\"Aerobics\" (1968) and mass-market version \"The New Aerobics\"\" (1979) helped to launch modern fitness culture. There was a running boom in the 1970s and outdoor fitness trails were developed in the USA and Europe. However, most of the growth in the fitness industry was through indoor gyms and health clubs.\n\nOutdoor fitness boot camps developed in Australia, the United States and the United Kingdom in the 1990s and Canada in 2001. In the twenty-first century, outdoor fitness grew as a commercial consumer market. Outdoor group fitness classes led by a personal trainer or a fitness professional became a popular form of outdoor exercise. A variety of training courses for fitness professionals and certifications for companies specialising in outdoor fitness developed. Outdoor fitness can be studied as a specialism of exercise physiology. The trend towards outdoor fitness led to a proliferation of outdoor gyms. \n\nStreet workouts have also become a popular outdoor fitness activity is some countries, with a world championship taking place since 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2835132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2835132", "title": "Parasitic worm", "text": "Parasitic worm\n\nParasitic worms, also known as helminths, are large macroparasites, which as adults can generally be seen with the naked eye. Many are intestinal worms that are soil-transmitted and infect the gastrointestinal tract. Other parasitic worms such as schistosomes reside in blood vessels. \n\nThere is no taxonomy of parasitic worms since it is an umbrella term that includes many species of worm from different genera, having parasitism as a commonality. These include two classes of the flatworm (Platyhelminthes) phylum, namely cestodes (tapeworms) and trematodes (flukes and blood flukes), many species of nematodes (roundworms), and the acanthocephalins known as thorny-headed worms. Some other parasitic worm species from the annelids (ringed worms), including the leeches are ectoparasites and so are not classified as helminths which are endoparasites.\n\nParasitic worms live in and feed in living hosts. They receive nourishment and protection while disrupting their hosts' nutrient absorption. This can cause weakness and disease of the host. In their adult form, parasitic worms cannot multiply in humans. Helminths are able to survive in their mammalian hosts for many years due to their ability to manipulate the immune response by secreting immunomodulatory products. All parasitic worms produce eggs for reproduction. These eggs have a strong shell that protects them against a range of environmental conditions. The eggs can therefore survive outside their hosts, in the environment for many months or years.\n\nMany, of the worms referred to as helminths belong to the group of intestinal parasites. An infection by a helminth is known as helminthiasis, helminth infection or intestinal worm infection. There is a naming convention which applies to all helminths: the ending \"-asis\" (or in veterinary science: \"-osis\") is added at the end of the name of the worm to denote the infection with that particular worm. For example, \"Ascaris\" is the name of a type of helminth, and ascariasis is the name of the infection caused by that helminth.\n\nThere is no real consensus on the taxonomy (or groupings) of the helminths, particularly with the nematodes. The term \"helminth\" contains a number of phyla, many of which are completely unrelated. However, for practical considerations the term is still used nowadays to describe four groups with superficial similarities, the phyla Annelida, Platyhelminths, Nematoda and Acanthocephala.\n\nThere is in fact no helminth classification; it is an \"artificial\" term.\n\nThe most important helminths in the sanitation field are the human parasites, which is why most people relate the term helminth to them, where they are classified as nemathelminthes (nematodes) and platyhelminthes, depending on whether they possess a round or flat-shaped body respectively. The latter are further divided into cestodes and trematodes depending on whether or not they have a segmented body.\n\nRingworm (dermatophytosis) is actually caused by various fungi and not by a parasitic worm.\n\nHelminths are a group of organisms which share a similar form but are not necessarily related as part of evolution. Helminths include members of the following taxa: monogeneans, cestodes (tapeworms), nematodes (roundworms), trematodes (flukes), and acanthocephalins (thorny-headed worms).\n\nThe number of different helminth species is vast: it is estimated to be around one million species. The nematodes are the most diverse of all the helminths with the highest number of species. There may be as many as 300,000 species of parasites affecting vertebrates, and as many as 300 affecting humans alone.\n\nCharacteristics that are common for all helminths include:\n\nLifetime:\nEggs:\nLarvae:\nThe following table shows the principal morphological and reproductive distinctions for three helminth groups:\n\nDraft genomes for all categories of helminth have been sequenced in recent years and are available through the ParaSite sub-portal of WormBase.\n\nParasitic worms have been used as a medical treatment for various diseases, particularly those involving an overactive immune response. As humans have evolved with parasitic worms, proponents argue they are needed for a healthy immune system. Scientists are looking for a connection between the prevention and control of parasitic worms and the increase in allergies such as hay-fever in developed countries. Parasitic worms may be able to damp down the immune system of their host, making it easier for them to live in the intestine without coming under attack. This may be one mechanism for their proposed medicinal effect.\n\nOne study suggests a link between the rising rates of metabolic syndrome in the developed worlds and the largely successful efforts of Westerners to eliminate intestinal parasites. The work suggests eosinophils (a type of white blood cell) in fat tissue play an important role in preventing insulin resistance by secreting interleukin 4, which in turn switches macrophages into \"alternative activation\". Alternatively-activated macrophages are important to maintaining glucose homeostasis (i.e., blood sugar regulation). Helminth infection causes an increase in eosinophils. In the study, the authors fed rodents a high-fat diet to induce metabolic syndrome, and then injected them with helminths. Helminth infestation improved the rodents' metabolism. The authors concluded:\n\nAlthough sparse in blood of persons in developed countries, eosinophils are often elevated in individuals in rural developing countries where intestinal parasitism is prevalent and metabolic syndrome rare. We speculate that eosinophils may have evolved to optimize metabolic homeostasis during chronic infections by ubiquitous intestinal parasites….\n\nEggs can reach the soil when polluted wastewater, sewage sludge or human waste are used as fertilizer. Such soil is often characterized by moist and warm conditions. Therefore, the risk of using contaminated wastewater and sludge in agricultural fields is a real problem, especially in poor countries, where this practice is prevalent. Helminth eggs are regarded as the main biological health risk when applying sewage sludge, fecal sludge or fecal matter on agricultural soils. The eggs are the infective stage of the helminths’ life cycle for causing the disease helminthiasis.\n\nHelminth eggs are resistant to various environmental conditions due to the composition of the egg shell. Each helminth egg species has 3 to 4 layers with different physical and chemical characteristics: a) the 1 to 2 outer layers are formed of mucopolysaccharides and proteins, b) the middle layers consist of chitinous material and serve to give structure and mechanical resistance to the eggs, and c) the inner layer is composed of lipids and proteins and is useful to protect eggs from desiccation, strong acid and bases, oxidants and reductive agents as well as detergent and proteolytic compounds.\n\nDue to this strong shell, helminth eggs or ova remain viable in soil, fresh water and sewage for many months. In feces, fecal sludge and sewage sludge they can even remain viable for several years. Helminth eggs of concern in wastewater used for irrigation have a size between 20 and 90 μm and a relative density of 1.06–1.23. It is very difficult to inactivate helminth eggs, unless temperature is increased above 40 °C or moisture is reduced to less than 5%.\n\nHelminth eggs contained in wastewater, sewage sludge or human excreta are not always infectious, i.e. able to cause the disease helminthiasis. Fertilized eggs and unfertilized eggs can exist side by side. Unfertilized eggs are identifiable under the microscope by their elongated shape. No larvae can hatch from these kinds of eggs. Therefore, unfertilized eggs do not pose a danger to human health.\n\nIn the case of \"Ascaris lumbricoides\" (giant roundworm), which has been considered the most resistant and common helminth type, fertilized eggs deposited in soil are resistant to desiccation but are, at this stage of development, very sensitive to environmental temperatures: The reproduction of a fertilized egg within the eggshell develops at an environmental soil temperature about 25 °C which is lower than the body temperature of the host (i.e., 37 °C for humans).\n\nHowever, development of the larvae in the egg stops at temperatures below 15.5 °C, and eggs cannot survive temperatures much above 38 °C. If the temperature is around 25 °C, the infectiousness occurs after nearly 10 days of incubation. Finally, after 2 to 4 weeks in moist soil at optimal temperature and oxygen levels, the embryo develops into an infective larva, named \"second-stage larva\". This larva has the ability to get out of the egg, hatch in the small intestine and migrate to different organs. These infective larvae (or \"infective eggs\") may remain viable in soil for two years or longer.\n\nIn order to physically remove (but not inactivate) helminth eggs from wastewater, processes that remove particles, such as sedimentation, filtration or coagulation-flocculation are employed. Therefore, waste stabilization ponds (lagoons), storage bassins, constructed wetlands, rapid filtration or upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactors can be used. These conventional wastewater treatment processes do not inactivate the helminth ova but only removes them from the wastewater and moves them to the sewage sludge.\n\nHelminth ova cannot be inactivated with chlorine, UV light or ozone (in the latter case at least not with economical doses because >36 mg/L ozone are needed with 1 hour contact time).\n\nInactivation of helminth ova can be achieved in sewage sludge treatment where the temperature is increased over 40 °C or moisture is reduced to less than 5%. Best results can be obtained when both of these conditions are combined for an extended period of time. Details about the contact time under these conditions and other related environmental factors are generally not well-defined for every type of helminth egg species. Helminth eggs are considered highly resistant biological structures.\n\nHelminth eggs (or ova) are a good indicator organism to assess the safety of sanitation and reuse systems because they are the most environmentally resistant pathogens of all pathogens (viruses, bacteria, protozoa and helminths) and can in extreme cases survive for several years in soil. Therefore, the presence or absence of viable helminth eggs (\"viable helminth egg\" means that a larva would be able to hatch from the egg) in a sample of dried fecal matter, compost or fecal sludge is often used as an indicator to assess the efficiency of diverse wastewater and sludge treatment processes in terms of pathogen removal. In particular, the number of viable Ascaris eggs is often taken as an indicator organism for all helminth eggs in treatment processes as they are very common in many parts of the world and relatively easy to identify under the microscope. However, the exact inactivation characteristics may vary for different types of helminth eggs.\n\nFor the purpose of setting treatment standards and reuse legislation, it is important to be able to determine the amount of helminth eggs in an environmental sample with some accuracy. The detection of viable helminth eggs in samples of wastewater, sludge or fresh feces (as a diagnostic tool for the infection helminthiasis) is not straight forward. In fact, many laboratories in developing countries lack the right equipment or skilled staff required to do so. An important step in the analytical methods is usually the concentration of the eggs in the sample, especially in the case of wastewater samples. A concentration step may not be required in samples of dried feces, e.g. samples collected from urine-diverting dry toilets.\n\nFor medical purposes, the exact number of helminth eggs is less important and therefore most diagnoses are made simply by identifying the appearance of the worm or eggs in feces. Due to the large quantity of eggs laid, physicians can diagnose using only one or two fecal smears. The Kato technique (also called the Kato-Katz technique) is a laboratory method for preparing human stool samples prior to searching for parasite eggs. Eggs per gram is a laboratory test that determines the number of eggs per gram of feces in patients suspected of having a parasitological infection, such as schistosomiasis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23068136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23068136", "title": "Paul Auerbach", "text": "Paul Auerbach\n\nPaul Stuart Auerbach (born January 4, 1951) is an American physician and author in the discipline, wilderness medicine. He is a founder and past president of the Wilderness Medical Society. Auerbach was the editor for the \"Journal of Wilderness Medicine\" (currently \"Wilderness and Environmental Medicine\") published by the Wilderness Medical Society from 1990 to 1995. Auerbach is the author of a number of articles and books on topics such as emergency medicine, hazardous marine animals, and scuba diving, including two books of underwater photography.\n\nAuerbach was born in Plainfield, New Jersey. He graduated from North Plainfield High School in 1969. Auerbach then went to Duke University located in Durham, North Carolina where he completed a Bachelor of Arts in religion, graduating magna cum laude in 1973.\n\nAuerbach received his Doctorate of Medicine from the Duke University School of Medicine in 1977. Auerbach then went on to Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center and completed his clinical internship in 1978 before starting a residency in emergency medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles Medical Center. Upon completion of his residency in 1980, Auerbach became board certified in emergency medicine by the American Board of Emergency Medicine in 1981.\n\nAuerbach later went on to complete a Master of Science in Management as a Sloan Fellow at the Stanford Graduate School of Business.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1981, Auerbach was an Assistant Professor of Medicine at the Temple University School of Medicine in Philadelphia, PA. He then went on to become Assistant Clinical Professor of Medicine at the University of California, San Francisco until 1985 when he moved to the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine in Nashville, TN. Vanderbilt promoted Auerbach to Professor in 1991 and later that year he moved to the Stanford University School of Medicine. Auerbach served as the Chief, Division of Emergency Medicine, Department of Surgery at the Stanford University School of Medicine from 1991 to 1995. Auerbach currently serves as the Redlich Family Professor of Surgery in the Division of Emergency Medicine at Stanford School of Medicine, Stanford University.\n\nAward received by Auerbach include:\n\nAuerbach was the editor for the \"Journal of Wilderness Medicine\" (currently \"Wilderness and Environmental Medicine\") published by the Wilderness Medical Society from 1990 to 1995 when he became the \"Editor Emeritus\". Editorial boards that he has served on have included \"Topics in Emergency Medicine\" (1981–2006), \"The Journal of Emergency Medicine\" (1985–1986), \"Current Concepts in Wound Care.\" (1986–1988), \"Emergindex\" (1992–2002), \"Annals of Emergency Medicine\" (1988–1991), and \"European Journal of Emergency Medicine\" (1993–2006). He currently serves on the editorial board for \"Emergency Medicine Reports\" (1986–present). Auerbach was on the consulting editorial board for the \"Journal of Emergency Nursing\" from 1981 to 1985. He has also served as the contributing medical editor for several diving publications including \"Dive Data\" (1987), \"Scuba Times\" (1988), \"The Undersea Journal\" (1988), and \"Dive Training\" (1991).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36534184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36534184", "title": "Pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome", "text": "Pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome\n\nPediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome (PANS) is a clinically defined disorder characterized by the sudden onset of obsessive-compulsive symptoms or eating restrictions, concomitant with acute behavioral deterioration and/or motor/sensory changes in at least two of seven domains. Those domains are anxiety, emotional lability and/or depression, irritability, aggressive or oppositional behavior, academic decline, cognitive decline, and sleep disruption. The definitive diagnosis also necessitates a course that follows a relapsing–remitting pattern. In the case of post-puberty chronicity residual symptoms and their severity increases.\n\nPANS is an exclusively clinical diagnosis based on the exclusion of other disorders (\"exclusion diagnostics\") and is characterized by symptoms typical of basal ganglia dysfunction and the results of altered functions of the inert part of the immune system. PANDAS (pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections) is basically PANS caused by streptococcal infection and has symptoms similar (but not equal) to PANS. However, the pathological mechanisms of PANDAS are still under research. Possible laboratory markers for PANDAS have been discussed and tested, with no promising results. PANS and PANDAS are, despite their similarity, not interchangeable concepts and terms.\n\nA consortium of academic clinicians and scientists was convened in 2013 to develop more defined diagnostic guidelines for this disorder in anticipation of furthering research, clinical trials, and clinical care for this patient subgroup.\n\n"}
{"id": "19231961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19231961", "title": "Pension Belhomme", "text": "Pension Belhomme\n\nThe Pension Belhomme was a prison and private clinic during the French Revolution.\n\nAround 1765, the joiner Jacques Belhomme took on the construction of a building for the son of a neighbour, an aristocrat who had been mad since birth. Seeing that running an asylum was more lucrative than joinery, he opened an asylum for lunatics, old people and whoever else rich families wanted to entrust to him. A famous precursor of psychiatry, Philippe Pinel, carried out his first treatments of the insane here.\n\nOnce the French Revolution had begun, Jacques Belhomme thought that his fortune was assured. Remote from the violent centre of Paris, he had noticeable advantages. In September 1793 the députés encouraged the sans-culottes to imprison all suspect individuals: nobles, their wives and children, foreigners, priests, lawyers, the actors of the Comédie Française, rich people in general, in short, all those who had not made clear their allegiance to the Republic. With the prisons of Paris already overflowing, the state requisitioned Belhomme's asylum and then all other private clinics. Belhomme entreated the 12 police chiefs in charge of Paris to send him rich prisoners who would pay high fees to live in his asylum as comfortably as possible. From then on marquises, bankers, journalists, famous actors, old nobles and army officers, along with other disgraced persons who bribed the doctors and police chiefs to be transferred on the pretext of illness, lived cheek by jowl with the mad.\n\nBelhomme rented the neighbouring building, the hôtel de Chabanais, to which he linked his own building by a charming garden after the young marquis de Chabanais, a descendant of Colbert, had emigrated with his mother and had his possessions confiscated by the state. Belhomme ended up buying the house to invest the money he had made. It was in this setting that there occurred the romance between Jacques-Marie Rouzet, a deputy to the National Convention, and Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon, widow of the Duc d’Orléans and mother of the future King Louis-Philippe. They married in secret after leaving prison.\n\nThe scandal of the Pension Belhomme finally erupted in January 1794. Belhomme was arrested for supplying wine to the inmates and was imprisoned in another \"pension\", at Coignard, where the Marquis de Sade was also held. He was found guilty twice and, like the majority of the former inmates of his \"clinic\", escaped the guillotine only because the Terror ended on 9 Thermidor. Some of the former inmates did not escape, however, proving too well-known to pass unnoticed. They included Béatrice de Choiseul-Stainville, duchesse de Gramont, sister of Louis XV's famous minister; the duchess of Le Châtelet, daughter-in-law of a famous mistress of Voltaire, the fermier général Magon de La Balue, guillotined with his children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, brothers and cousins; and the lawyer Simon-Nicholas Henri Linguet, despite his denunciation of the monarchy, for which he had spent a year in the Bastille under the ancien regime.\n\nThe hôtel de Chabanais was razed in 1953, as was the maison Belhomme in 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "12155777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12155777", "title": "Protandim", "text": "Protandim\n\nProtandim is a herbal dietary supplement marketed with unsupported claims that it can treat a number of medical conditions. The product is a patented mix of five herbal ingredients and sold by LifeVantage Corporation (formerly LifeLine Therapeutics, Lifeline Nutraceuticals, and Yaak River Resources, Inc), a Utah-based multi-level marketing company. The manufacturers of Protandim claim it can prevent or cure a wide variety of medical conditions, including diabetes and cancer. In 2017, LifeVantage was issued a warning letter by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regarding illegal advertising claims on the company’s websites suggesting that Protandim can help to cure various ailments, including cancer and diabetes.\n\nIn 2003, Lifeline Therapeutics, a privately held Denver-based nutraceutical licensing and marketing company, entered into an agreement with Massachusetts biotechnology company CereMedix for the rights to market CMX-1152, an experimental peptide-based compound, under the brand name \"Protandim\" (also sometimes referred to at that time as \"Rholen,\" \"Rejuven8r\" and \"ependymin\"). CereMedix was a ten percent owner of Lifeline and members of the CereMedix management board served on Lifeline’s board of directors. CMX-1152 was claimed to upregulate the production of the endogenous antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase, and to offset the ageing process.\n\nCMX-1152 was due to be marketed as an over the counter anti-aging pill in June 2004 after completing human clinical trials. However, plans to market the CMX-1152 version of Protandim fell through and in April 2004 Lifeline Therapeutics announced that it would instead be marketing a different (non-peptide) dietary supplement under the name “Protandim CF” (to distinguish it from the peptide version initially developed by Cermedix). The new version of Protandim, a combination of 5 common herbal ingredients including turmeric and green tea was invented following “months of extensive research and development” by Lifeline employees Paul Myhill and William Driscoll (a former oil company executive), who together hold the patent on the product, and it was launched in February 2005. Myhill and Driscoll resigned from the company later that year.\n\nLike CMX-1152, the herbal mixture known as Protandim that supplanted it was marketed by Lifeline as an \"anti-aging\" supplement that increases the body’s antioxidant defenses by upregulating superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase. According to the company, the product was initially sold through retail channels such as GNC; however, in 2009, after several consecutive years of multimillion-dollar losses, the company, which by then was doing business under the name LifeVantage, stopped marketing it through retailers and switched to multi-level marketing, selling it instead through a network of commissioned independent distributors. According to LifeVantage, the move from retail to multi-level marketing was prompted by the January 2008 hiring of David W. Brown, (formerly CEO and president of Metabolife) as the company's CEO and president.\n\nBeginning in 2005, Protandim was produced under a manufacturing agreement with The Chemins Company of Colorado Springs, Colorado.<ref name=\"LIFEVANTAGE-CORP-Jan-2006-10KSB/A\"></ref> In July 2008, LifeVantage entered into a new manufacturing agreement with Cornerstone Research & Development to produce Protandim, and with Wasatch Product Development to produce a Protandim-based skin cream (\"TrueScience\").\n\nIn 2006, biochemist Joe M. McCord joined the LifeVantage board of directors as the company’s Director of Science. McCord, who is listed by the SEC as a LifeVantage insider shareholder, served as a spokesperson for Protandim and was responsible for distributor training and product research. Under the terms of his 2011 employment agreement, McCord received $529,994 in direct compensation as well as a 50-cent commission on every bottle of Protandim sold. McCord served as LifeVantage’s Chief Scientific Officer from June 2011 until September 2012, and then became a member of its science advisory board. LifeVantage announced McCord’s retirement in June 2013. Under the terms of the separation agreement, McCord was to receive a payment of $1.7 million from the company.\n\nIn January 2014, McCord was replaced by Shawn Talbott (developer of CortiSlim), who served as the company's Chief Science Officer until being relieved of his duties in June 2015 and replaced in August 2015 by Natalie Chevreau, who was hired as the company's Senior VP of Research and Development and is credited with the invention of the company's TruScience skin care product.\n\nAs recently as July 21, 2011, LifeVantage credited McCord as the creator of Protandim on its website. At a 2011 conference for LifeVantage distributors, McCord stated, \"I was presented with a list of 41 potential ingredients for a product they wanted to call Protandim, and I went through the list and penciled out, rapidly, about 36 of those ingredients,\" leaving the 5 ingredients in the current formulation of Protandim. In March 2009, former LifeLine Therapeutics executive, Paul Myhill stated, \"We initially decided to hide that fact [that Myhill derived the core composition for Protandim] for marketing purposes and instead rely on the impeccable background of Dr. McCord.\" In April, 2005, Myhill produced a signed letter from McCord in which McCord stated, \"I do not honestly feel that I have made contributions to the intellectual property, up to this point, that would qualify me as an inventor...I must congratulate you and Paul for having framed the concept of Protandim so close to its final embodiment, prior to the beginnings of our association.\"\n\nProtandim consists mainly of a blend of 5 herbal ingredients (amounts per caplet listed in parentheses):\n\n\nMarketing claims that Protadim can prevent or treat cancer are unproven and have been deemed fraudulent by the FDA. Research into use as a treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is of poor quality, casting doubt on its usefulness for drawing any conclusions about efficacy.\n\nIn 2011, Harriet A. Hall wrote for \"Science-Based Medicine\" that, \"We simply don’t know enough at this point to recommend Protandim for treatment or prevention of any disease, for anti-aging, for making people feel healthier or more energetic, or for anything else.\"\n\nAccording to the manufacturer, Protandim can cause allergic responses, gastrointestinal disturbances (stomach ache, diarrhea, vomiting), headache, and rash of the hands and feet.\n\nIn December 2012, LifeVantage issued a voluntary recall of select lots (10 lots in total comprising 247,896 bottles) of Protandim due to potential health risks arising from the possible inclusion of small metal fragments in the final product. In February 2013, the company announced that it was extending the recall to include additional lots of the product, estimating the total cost of the recall at $5.9 million.\n\nOn April 17, 2017, LifeVantage was issued a warning letter by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regarding illegal advertising claims on the company’s websites suggesting that Protandim can play a role in helping to cure various ailments, including cancer and diabetes. The claims were deemed to be in violation of Section 201(g)(1)(B) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) [21 U.S.C. § 321(g)(1)(B)].\n\nIn 2009, LifeVantage was sued by Utah-based Zrii LLC, a marketer of nutritional fruit drinks endorsed by Deepak Chopra, based on allegations that LifeVantage had conspired with former Zrii executives to “ruin the company” and take it over “on the cheap” following a “mass exodus”. The case was closed in December 2009 following LifeVantage’s settlement payment of $400,000 to Zrii.\n\nOn October 14, 2011, Burke Hedges, a former LifeVantage distributor (hired for his background as a speaker and trainer) filed a lawsuit with the Utah District Court against LifeVantage and its executives, seeking $3 million in punitive damages over allegations of wrongful termination and tortious interference.\n\nIn September 2016, a class action lawsuit was filed against LifeVantage in Utah alleging that the company and its executive Darren Jensen and Mark Jaggi made false and/or misleading statements, as well as failed to disclose material adverse facts about the Company's business, operations, and prospects. Specifically, the case alleged that the defendants made false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (i) LifeVantage lacked effective internal financial controls; (ii) as a result, the Company had improperly accounted for sales in certain international markets, along with associated revenue and income tax accruals; and (iii) as a result of the foregoing, LifeVantage's public statements were materially false and misleading at all relevant times. The case was dismissed in June 2017.\n\nIn January 2018, a class action lawsuit was filed against LifeVantage in Connecticut alleging that the company and its Chief Executive Officer Darren Jensen, Chief Sales Officer Justin Rose, and Chief Marketing Officer Ryan Goodwin were operating an illegal pyramid scheme in violation of the RICO Act, federal securities laws, and the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act.\n\nMajor League Soccer team Real Salt Lake announced on October 29, 2013 that it had partnered with LifeVantage for a long-term, multimillion-dollar jersey-front sponsorship. The partnership was set to formally go into effect on January 1, 2014, with the LifeVantage logo appearing on the Real Salt Lake jersey starting in the next season. In July 2015, Real Salt Lake owner Dell Loy Hansen was reported by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to have bought a 5.1 percent ownership stake in LifeVantage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56097400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56097400", "title": "RIDDLE syndrome", "text": "RIDDLE syndrome\n\nRIDDLE syndrome is a rare genetic syndrome. The name is an acronym for Radiosensitivity, ImmunoDeficiency Dysmorphic features and LEarning difficulties.\n\nThe features of this condition include\n\n\nThis condition is due to mutations in the RNF168 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.\n\nThe gene encodes a ubiquitin ligase and is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 (3q29) on the Crick (minus strand).\n\n\nThis condition is rare. Only four cases have been described up to 2017.\n\nThis syndrome was first described by in Stewart et al. 2007.\n"}
{"id": "610191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610191", "title": "Ragdoll", "text": "Ragdoll\n\nThe Ragdoll is a cat breed with blue eyes and varying colours and patterns. It is a large and muscular semi-longhair cat with a soft and silky coat. Developed by American breeder Ann Baker in the 1960s, it is best known for its docile and placid temperament and affectionate nature. The name \"Ragdoll\" is derived from the tendency of individuals from the original breeding stock to go limp and relaxed when picked up. Particularly popular in both the United Kingdom and the breed's native United States, ragdoll cats often are known as \"dog-like cats\" or \"puppy-like cats\" due to behaviors such as their tendency to follow people around, their ease at being physically handled, and their relative lack of aggression toward other pets.\n\nIn the 1960s, a regular, non-pedigreed, light-grey, domestic longhaired cat named Josephine produced several litters of typical cats. Josephine was of a Persian/Angora type and had litters sired by several unknown male Birman or Burmese-like cats, one of which had the Siamese point coloration. Josephine later produced kittens with a docile, placid temperament, affectionate nature, and a tendency to go limp and relaxed when picked up. When a subsequent litter produced more of the same, Ann Baker purchased several kittens from the owner who lived behind her and, believing that she had something special, set out to create what is now known as the ragdoll. The breed was selectively bred over many years for desirable traits, such as large size, gentle demeanor, pointed coloration, and a tendency to go limp when picked up.\n\nOut of those early litters came Blackie, an all black Burmese-like male, and Daddy Warbucks, a seal point with white feet. Daddy Warbucks sired the founding bi-color female Fugianna, and Blackie sired Buckwheat, a dark brown/black Burmese-like female. Both Fugianna and Buckwheat were daughters of Josephine. All Ragdolls are descended from Baker's cats through matings of Daddy Warbucks to Fugianna and Buckwheat.\n\nBaker, in an unusual move, spurned traditional cat-breeding associations. She trademarked the name \"Ragdoll\", set up her own registry (the International Ragdoll Cat Association (IRCA)) ca. 1971, and enforced stringent standards on anyone who wanted to breed or sell cats under that name. The Ragdolls were also not allowed to be registered in other breed associations. The IRCA is still in existence today but is quite small, particularly since Baker's death in 1997. IRCA cats are not recognized in any major cat breed organization or cat show.\n\nIn 1975, a group led by a husband-and-wife team, Denny and Laura Dayton, broke ranks with the IRCA with the aim of gaining mainstream recognition for the Ragdoll. Beginning with a breeding pair of IRCA cats, this group eventually developed the Ragdoll standard currently accepted by major cat registries such as the CFA and the FIFe.\n\nSince the spread of the Ragdoll breed in America during the early 1960s, a breeding pair of Ragdolls was exported to the UK. This pair was followed by eight more cats to fully establish the breed in the UK, where it is recognised by the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy\n\nIn 1994, a second group decided to leave the IRCA and form its own group owing to increasingly strict breeding restrictions. This group later established the Ragamuffin breed. Because Baker owned the rights to the name \"Ragdoll\", no offshoot groups were legally able to call their cats Ragdolls until 2005, when the trademark on \"Ragdoll\" was not renewed.\n\nThe largest international Ragdoll breed club is the Ragdoll Fanciers' Club International (RFCI).\n\nThe Ragdoll is marketed by breeders as having a docile, calm and floppy nature with claims that these characteristics have been passed down from the Persian and Birman breeds. Opinions vary as to whether this trait might be the result of genetic mutation. The extreme docility of some individuals has led to the myth that Ragdolls are pain resistant. Some breeders in Britain have tried to breed away from the limpness owing to concerns that extreme docility \"might not be in the best interests of the cat\".\n\nBreed standard marketing and publicity material describe the Ragdoll as affectionate, intelligent, relaxed in temperament, gentle, and an easy-to-handle lap cat. The animals are often known as \"puppy cats\", \"dog-like cats\", \"cat-dogs\", etc., because of their placid nature and affectionate behavior, with the cats often following owners from room to room as well as seeking physical affection akin to certain dog breeds. Ragdolls can be trained to retrieve toys and enjoy doing so.\n\nThe Ragdoll is one of the largest domesticated cat breeds, with a sturdy body, large frame, and proportionate legs. A fully-grown female weighs from . Males are substantially larger, ranging from or more. The genes for point coloration are responsible for the distinctive blue eyes of the Ragdoll. More intense shades of blue are favored in cat shows. Although the breed has a plush coat, it consists mainly of long guard hairs, while the lack of a dense undercoat results, according to the Cat Fanciers' Association, in \"reduced shedding and matting\".\n\nRagdolls come in six different colors: red, seal, chocolate and the corresponding \"dilutes\", including blue, lilac, and cream. This also includes the lynx and tortoiseshell variations in all colors and the three patterns. Ragdoll kittens are born white; they have good color at 8–10 weeks and full color and coat at 3–4 years. The three different patterns are:\nVariations:\n\nOne study utilizing Swedish insurance data showed that of the common cat breeds, the Ragdoll and Siamese have the lowest survival rate. They live 15 to 25 years. This study indicates the Ragdoll may have a significantly higher number of cats that die of urinary problems, mainly from kidney/ureter issues, but also partly from lower urinary issues. Whether this is an issue outside Finland, Sweden, or Denmark is unclear. Ragdoll cats require regular grooming to ensure that their fur does not mat, as with most long-haired cat breeds; some breeders recommend bathing once a month.\n\nBackground inbreeding is severe, around 40%, owing to the very limited number of foundation cats.\n\nHypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a common heart disease in all cats and is most commonly genetic in cause. The disease causes thickening of the heart wall, which makes the heart pump less efficiently. It can, in some instances, lead to sudden death. In Ragdolls homozygous positive for the disease (having two copies of the HCM gene), the condition can present early (as young as six months) and tends to be severe, with most cats dying by age 3. Heterozygous (one copy of HCM gene) cats tend to have later onset and slower progression of the disease with less severe impact. A DNA test was developed in 2007 to identify the gene that causes HCM in Ragdolls. Breeding only from Ragdolls that are free from this gene (homozygous negative) will ensure that they will not develop the form of HCM associated with it.\nThe allelic frequencies of the Ragdoll HCM mutation R820W were 0.17 in cats from Italy and 0.23 in cats from the USA in 2013.\nThis reference states that the R820W prevalence is 30% in UK.\nThe HCM prevalence was found to be 2.9% (95% CI 2.7 -8.6% ) in this study.\n\nThe cat in the Swedish movie \"A Man Called Ove\" is a ragdoll.\n\nMatilda III, the current mascot of The Algonquin Hotel in New York City, is a ragdoll.\n\n"}
{"id": "15712194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15712194", "title": "Renee Williams", "text": "Renee Williams\n\nRenee Williams (June 4, 1977 – March 4, 2007) was an American woman believed to be the largest woman in the world at the time of her death in 2007 from complications following her surgery for morbid obesity. Williams was also one of the heaviest people to ever live.\n\nBy the age of 12, Williams was already in the category of super-morbid obesity, which refers to a body mass index over 50. After a car crash in 2003 she became unable to walk, and added another 420 lb to her then 460 lb frame inside 4 years. She was bedridden and ate large amounts of food. Williams' daughter attests that both before and after her accident, it was a common occurrence for Williams to keep eating until her stomach hurt, with reports of her eating up to eight burgers at a time. Williams had a gastric bypass at age 29, when her weight was 880 lb, after a reported twelve-year wait because she did not meet the demands of any surgeon to lose a percentage of her body fat by dieting before they would consider her for surgery. Instead, she continued to gain at least 80 lb each year. She was eventually given the surgery after doctors determined she had less than a year to live at her weight; her operation was performed on a specially widened operating table. However, she died 12 days later.\n\nWilliams was featured in the American television program \"Amazing Medical Stories\":\nAt 406kg, 29-year-old Renee Williams is the world's biggest woman. Confined to her bed, Renee begged doctors to perform an operation when she became so large that she couldn't hug her own children. She's waited 12 years for the gastric bypass surgery to help her get back on her feet... but it may just be too late.\n\nShe was also the subject of a British television program called \"Half Ton Mum\" broadcast on Channel 4 after her death as part of the \"BodyShock\" series. The program stated that she also held the world record for being the heaviest person ever to have gastric bypass surgery on her stomach at 63 stone, or around 880 lb. When Williams went to the hospital for her gastric bypass, her Body Mass Index was calculated by the doctors to be 113 kg/m², where a BMI of 50+ is considered \"super-morbidly obese\". She was treated by the same medical team as Kenneth Brumley, subject of the counterpart documentary \"Half Ton Dad\".\n\nShe was buried at Santa Maria Cemetery in Travis County Texas, US.\n"}
{"id": "144178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144178", "title": "Sathya Sai Baba", "text": "Sathya Sai Baba\n\nSathya Sai Baba (born Sathyanarayana Raju; 23 November 192624 April 2011) was an Indian guru, a spiritual leader, and philanthropist. He claimed to be the reincarnation of Sai Baba of Shirdi.\n\nSai Baba's purported materialisations of \"vibhuti\" (holy ash) and other small objects such as rings, necklaces, and watches, were a source of both fame and controversy. Some have analyzed them as being mere sleight of hand; while his devotees considered them signs of his divinity. Innumerable reports of miraculous healings, resurrection, clairvoyance, bilocation, and alleged omnipotence and omniscience have been attributed to Sai Baba by both devotees and non-devotees.\n\nThe Sathya Sai Organisation, founded by Sai Baba \"to enable its members to undertake service activities as a means to spiritual advancement\", has over 1,200 Sathya Sai Centres (branches) in 126 countries. Through this organisation, Sai Baba established a network of free hospitals, clinics, drinking water projects, auditoriums, ashrams and schools.\n\nAlmost everything known about Sai Baba's early life stems from the hagiography that grew around him, narratives that hold special meaning to his devotees and are considered by them to be evidence of his divine nature. According to these sources, Sathya Narayana Raju was born to Meesaraganda Eashwaramma and Peddavenkama Raju Ratnakaram in the village of Puttaparthi, to a Raju family, in what was the Madras Presidency of British India. His birth, which his mother Eashwaramma asserted was by miraculous conception, was also said to be heralded by miracles.\n\nSai Baba's siblings included elder brother Ratnakaram Seshama Raju (1911–1985), sisters Venkamma (1918–1993) and Parvathamma (1920–1998), and younger brother Janakiramaiah (1931–2003).\n\nAs a child, he was described as \"unusually intelligent\" and charitable, though not necessarily academically inclined, as his interests were of a more spiritual nature. He was uncommonly talented in devotional music, dance and drama. From a young age, he was alleged to have been capable of materialising objects such as food and sweets out of thin air.\n\nOn 8 March 1940, while living with his elder brother Seshama Raju in Uravakonda, a small town near Puttaparthi, 14 year old Sathya was apparently stung by a scorpion. He lost consciousness for several hours and in the next few days underwent a noticeable change in behaviour. There were \"symptoms of laughing and weeping, eloquence and silence.\" It is claimed that then \"he began to sing Sanskrit verses, a language of which it is alleged he had no prior knowledge.\" Doctors concluded his behaviour to be hysteria. Concerned, his parents brought Sathya back home to Puttaparthi and took him to many priests, doctors and exorcists. One of the exorcists at Kadiri, a town near Puttaparthi, went to the extent of torturing him with the aim of curing him; Sathya seemingly kept calm throughout the torture.\n\nOn 23 May 1940, Sathya called household members and reportedly materialised sugar candy (\"prasad)\" and flowers for them. His father became furious at seeing this, thinking his son was bewitched. He took a stick and threatened to beat him if Sathya did not reveal who he really was, the young Sathya responded calmly and firmly \"I am Sai Baba\", a reference to Sai Baba of Shirdi. This was the first time he proclaimed himself to be the reincarnation of Sai Baba of Shirdi—a saint who became famous in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in Maharashtra and had died eight years before Sathya was born.\n\nIn 1944, a mandir for Sai Baba's devotees was built near the village of Puttaparthi. It is now referred to as the \"old mandir\". The construction of Prashanthi Nilayam, the current ashram, began in 1948 and was completed in 1950. In 1954, Sai Baba established a small free general hospital in the village of Puttaparthi. He won fame for mystical powers and the ability to heal. In 1957 Sai Baba went on a North Indian temple tour.\n\nIn 1963, it was asserted that Sai Baba suffered a stroke and four severe heart attacks, which left him paralysed on one side. These events culminated in an event where he apparently healed himself in front of the thousands of people gathered in Prashanthi Nilayam who were then praying for his recovery.\n\nOn recovering, Sai Baba announced that he would one day next be reborn as an incarnation named \"Prema Sai Baba\" in the neighbouring state of Karnataka. He stated, \"I am Shiva-Sakthi, born in the gotra (lineage) of Bharadwaja, according to a boon won by that sage from Siva and Sakthi. Siva was born in the gotra of that sage as Sai Baba of Shirdi; Shiva and Sakthi have incarnated as Myself in his gotra now; Sakthi alone will incarnate as the third Sai (Prema Sai Baba) in the same gotra in Mandya district of Karnataka State.\" He stated he would be born again eight years after his death at the age of 96, but died at the age of 84.\n\nOn 29 June 1968, Sai Baba made his only overseas trip, to Kenya and Uganda. In Nairobi, he spoke of his personal mission: \n\nIn 1968, he established Dharmakshetra or the Sathyam Mandir in Mumbai. In 1973, he established the Shivam Mandir in Hyderabad. On 19 January 1981, in Chennai, he inaugurated the Sundaram Mandir.\n\nIn a 1993 incident, four intruders armed with knives entered his bedroom, either as an assassination attempt or as part of a power struggle between his followers. Sai Baba was unharmed. During the scuffle and the police response, the intruders and two of Sai Baba's attendants were killed. The official investigation left questions unanswered.\n\nIn March 1995, Sai Baba started a project to provide drinking water to 1.2 million people in the drought-prone Rayalaseema region in the Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. In April 1999 he inaugurated the Ananda Nilayam Mandir in Madurai, Tamil Nadu.\n\nIn 2001 he established another free super-speciality hospital in Bangalore to benefit the poor. The \"Vancouver Sun\" in 2001 reported that Sai Baba told his adherents not to browse the Internet after Sai Baba said, \"These teachings (the Vedas) are highly sacred. Today people are ready to believe all that they see on television and internet but do not repose their faith in the Vedic declarations. Internet is like a waste paper basket. Follow the 'innernet,' not the internet.\"\n\nIn 2003, Sai Baba suffered a fractured hip when a student standing on an iron stool slipped and the boy and stool both fell on him. After that he gave darshana from a car or his porte chair. After 2004, Sai Baba used a wheelchair and began to make fewer public appearances.\n\nOn 28 March 2011, Sai Baba was admitted to the Sri Sathya Sai Super Speciality Hospital at Prashantigram at Puttaparthi, following respiration-related problems. After nearly a month of hospitalisation, during which his condition progressively deteriorated, Sai Baba died on Sunday, 24 April at 7:40 IST, aged 84.\n\nSai Baba had predicted that he would die at age 96 and would remain healthy until then. After he died, some devotees suggested that he was referring to that many lunar years, as counted by Telugu-speaking Hindus, rather than solar years, and using the Indian way of accounting for age, which counts the year to come as part of the person's life. Other devotees have spoken of his anticipated resurrection, reincarnation or awakening.\n\nHis body lay in state for two days and was buried with full state honours on 27 April 2011. An estimated 500,000 people attended the burial, among them the Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi (India's Present Prime Minister), Cricketer Sachin Tendulkar and Union Ministers S. M. Krishna and Ambika Soni, as well as other political leaders and prominent figures.\n\nSai Baba's death triggered an outpouring of grief from followers who included Indian politicians, movie stars, athletes and industrialists. Most remembered him as a pious, selfless person who worked to help others with the billions of dollars donated to his charitable trust.\n\nPolitical leaders who offered their condolences included the then Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa and the Dalai Lama. Cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, whose birthday was that day, cancelled his birthday celebrations. \"The Hindu\" newspaper reported that \"Sri Sathya Sai Baba's propagation of spiritualism and preaching of Hindu philosophy never came in the way of his commitment to secular beliefs.\"\n\nThe Government of Karnataka declared 25 and 26 April as days of mourning and Andhra Pradesh declared 25, 26, and 27 April as days of mourning.\n\nOn 17 June 2011, officials from the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust (founded as a charitable Trust in India, and legally separate from religious activities), opened his private residence in the presence of government, bank and tax department officials, including retired Supreme Court Judge A P Mishra and retired judge of Karnataka High Court Vaidyanatha, an assessor approved by the Income Tax Department, and former Chief Justice of India P N Bhagavati. In the private residence, which had been sealed since his death, they inventoried 98 kg of gold ornaments, approximate value Rs 21 crores (US$4.7m), 307 kg of silver ornaments, approximate value Rs 16 million (US$0.36m), and Rs 116 million (US$2.6m) in cash. The cash was deposited into the Sai Trust's account at the State Bank of India with payment of government taxes (thus transferring them from religious gifts to Trust assets.) The gold and other items were inventoried, assessed, and placed in secure storage. In July, district authorities inventoried an additional Rs 7.7 million (US$0.17m) in valuables in another 4 rooms. The total value of these items is believed to exceed 7.8 million US dollars.\n\nAlso inventoried at Yajurmandir were many articles stored and routinely given away as gifts in various ceremonies to devotees and those who performed selfless service, including thousands of pure silk sarees, dhotis, shirts, 500 pairs of shoes, dozens of bottles of perfume and hairspray, watches, a large number of silver and gold \"mangala sutrams\", and precious stones such as diamonds. There were also 750 saffron and white robes of the type Sai Baba wore.\n\nIn July 2011, a similar opening of his Bangalore-area ashram tallied 6 kg of gold coins and jewellery, 245 kg of silver articles and Rs 8 million in cash.\n\nThese items and goods are believed to have been donated over the years by Sai Baba's devotees from all over the world as religious gifts.\n\nOn 2 September 2012, Satyajit Salian, a close aide of Sri Sathya Sai Baba, released to the media a declaration made by Sai Baba, and registered on 23 March 1967, in Bombay saying his relatives had no authority over the Sathya Sai Trust assets. The exact text of the declaration was:\n\nSatyajit Sailan also attached the attestation of Indulal Sha, who is the sole surviving witness to the original document. Satyajit Sailan said he has been in possession of the document since 1998, per the directions of Sai Baba. Officials from the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust stated to the media that they would respect this will.\n\nThe Vahinis are a series of books by Sai Baba.\n\nThe Sathya Sai Organisation (or Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organization) was founded in the 1960s by Sai Baba. The first Sai Centres were started in India under the name of the \"Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi\". The Sathya Sai Organisation originated \"to enable its members to undertake service activities as a means to spiritual advancement.\" The official mission of the Sathya Sai Organization is \"to help its members realize the innate divinity within\".\n\nThe Sathya Sai Organisation publishes an official monthly magazine named \"Sanathana Sarathi\", published by the Sri Sathya Sai Books and Publications Trust. The English translation of the word Sanathana Sarathi means 'Eternal Charioteer'.\n\nSai Baba stated that the main objective of the Sathya Sai Organisation \"is to help man recognize the divinity that is inherent in him. So, your duty is to emphasize the One, to experience the One in all you do or speak. Do not give any importance to differences of religion or sect or status or colour. Have the feeling of one-ness permeate every act of yours. Only those who do so have a place in this Organization; the rest can withdraw.\"\n\nThe Sathya Sai Organisation reports that there are an estimated 1,200 Sathya Sai Baba Centres in 114 countries.\nHowever, the number of active Sai Baba followers is hard to determine. Estimates vary from 6 million up to nearly 100 million. In India itself, Sai Baba drew followers predominantly from the upper-middle-class, the urban sections of society who have the \"most wealth, education and exposure to Western ideas.\" In 2002, he claimed to have followers in 178 countries.\n\nSai Baba founded a large number of schools and colleges, hospitals, and other charitable institutions in India and abroad, the total cost of which is usually estimated at Rs. 400 billion (US$9 billion). However, estimates as high as 1.4 trillion rupees (about US$31.5bn) have also been made. After his death, questions about the manner in which the finances of the organisation were going to be managed led to speculations of impropriety, with some reports suggesting that suitcases containing cash and/or gold had been removed from his personal lodgings.\n\nSai Baba's educational institutions aim to impart character education along with excellence in academics with emphasis on human values and ethics.\n\nSri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning (Deemed to be University), established in 1981, called Sri Sathya Sai University for some years, of which Sai Baba was the Chancellor, has four campuses, one at Puttaparthi for men, one at Whitefield, Bangalore for men, one at Anantapur for women, and one at Muddenahalli for men.\n\nThe Sri Sathya Sai Higher Secondary School was founded by Bhagawan Sri Sathya Sai Baba on 15 June 1981 in 'Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Giri' complex of Prasanthi Nilayam, Puttaparthi. This is a boarding school with separate hostel for boys and girls. The school caters to classes I to XII of the Central Board of Secondary Education, New Delhi [CBSE]. For 2014, it was ranked in the top 10 CBSE schools of India.\n\nSathya Sai Baba chaired the Sri Sathya Sai loka Seva institutions, Alike and Muddenahalli Karnataka from Madiyal Narayana Bhat, Currently it is headed by U Gangadhar Bhat. In addition, a Sathya Sai Baba University and Medical School also a hospital and research institute are being constructed on over . Baba said that the campus will be modelled after Puttaparthi and will infuse spirituality with academics.\nThe Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust runs several general hospitals, two speciality hospitals, eye hospitals and mobile dispensaries and conducts medical camps in rural and slum areas in India.\n\nThe Sri Sathya Sai General Hospital, Whitefield was opened in Whitefield, Bangalore, in 1977 and provides complex surgery, food and medicines free of cost. The hospital has treated over 2 million patients.\n\nThe Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, Puttaparthi is a 300-bed facility which provides free surgical and medical care and which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narasimha Rao on 22 November 1991. The hospital was financed and its construction supervised by Isaac Tigrett, founder of the Hard Rock Cafe and House of Blues.\n\nThe hospital is equipped 11 surgical theatres, five intensive care units, two cardiac catheterisation laboratories, medical and surgical wards, and a 24-hour emergency unit. \"Leading doctors specialising in the fields of Cardiology, Cardio Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Urology, Ophthalmology etc. come from different parts of the World on their own and render their services free of cost.\"\n\nThe hospital has a unique history of its own. On 23 November 1990, during his birthday discourse, Sri Sathya Sai Baba while talking about the inability of healthcare access to the poor declared within one year a tertiary care hospital will come up in the village of Puttaparthi, which will provide high-end care completely free to all the patients. The hospital was constructed in a record time of exactly one year and the first cardiothoracic operations were carried out successfully.\n\nAfter the success of the first super speciality hospital, the Karnataka government offered Sai Baba 53 acres of land to establish another super speciality hospital in Whitefield.\n\nThe Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, Whitefield is a 333-bed hospital, which was inaugurated on 19 January 2001 by Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. The estimated cost of this second hospital was Rs 2000 million. The hospital has provided free medical care to over 250,000 patients.\n\nIn November 1995, Sai Baba expressed his concern about the lack of drinking water in Rayalseema. In March 1995, the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust commenced work on a project to supply pure drinking water to villages in the district of Anantapur. The project was completed in 1996 supplies water to 1.2 million people in about 750 villages in the drought-prone Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe Chennai drinking water project, completed in 2004, supplies water to Chennai through a rebuilt waterway named \"Sathya Sai Ganga Canal\". Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi praised the Chennai water project and Sai Baba's involvement. Other completed water projects include the Medak District Project benefiting 450,000 people in 179 villages and the Mahbubnagar District Project benefiting 350,000 people in 141 villages. In January 2007, the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust said it would start a drinking water project in Latur, Maharashtra.\n\nTelugu-Ganga Project\n\nThe Telugu-Ganga project is a water supply scheme implemented by Andhra Pradesh, India to provide drinking water to Chennai city in Tamil Nadu. The source of water is the river Krishna in Andhra Pradesh and the Poondi reservoir near Chennai is the destination with water planned to be routed through a series of interlinked canals.\n\nThe water initially supplied by the canal was disappointing, delivering less than 500 million cubic feet (14×10 m). In 2002, Sri Sathya Sai Baba announced a scheme of restoration and lining of the canal; as his own undertaking. With an extensive rebuilding of the canal and several reservoirs, the project was completed in 2004, when Poondi reservoir received Krishna water for the first time. The supply of water to Chennai city in 2006 was 3.7 billion cubic feet (100×10 m). After the re-lining and reconstruction, the Kandaleru-Poondi part of the canal was renamed Sai Ganga.\n\nIn 2008, two million people in the state of Odisha were affected by floods. As a relief measure, the Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organization built 699 houses as part of their first phase in 16 villages by March 2009.\n\nSai Baba's \"Educare\" programme seeks to found schools throughout the world with the goal of educating children in the five human values. According to the Sai Educare site, schools have been founded in 33 countries, including Australia, Mexico, the United Kingdom and Peru. The Times of Zambia states, \"The positive influence of Sathya Sai is unprecedented in the annals of education in Zambia. Sai Baba's education ideals as embodied in his human values-based approach in education are an eye-opener to educationists in Zambia.\"\n\nIn Canada, the Fraser Institute, an independent Canadian research and educational organisation, ranked the Sathya Sai School of Canada as one of the top 37 elementary schools in Ontario.\n\nOn 23 November 2001, the digital radio network Radio Sai Global Harmony was launched through the World Space Organization, United States. Michael Oleinikof Nobel (distant relative to Alfred Nobel and one of the patrons for the radio network) said that the radio network would spread Sai Baba's message of global harmony and peace.\n\nOn 23 November 1999, the Department of Posts, Government of India, released a postage stamp and a postal cover in recognition of the service rendered by Sai Baba in addressing the problem of providing safe drinking water to the rural masses.\n\nIn January 2007, an event was held in Chennai Nehru Stadium organised by the Chennai Citizens' Conclave to thank Sai Baba for the 2 billion water project which brought water from the River Krishna in Andhra Pradesh to Chennai city. Four chief ministers attended the function.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, a Sikh, said the country would remember Sai Baba as someone who \"inspired millions to lead a moral and meaningful life.\"\n\nThe Indian Department of Post released a commemorative stamp on the spiritual guru on the occasion of what would have been his 88th birthday during November 2013.\n\nPuttaparthi, where Sai Baba was born and lived, was originally a small, remote South Indian village in Andhra Pradesh. Now there is an extensive university complex, a speciality hospital, and two museums: the \"Sanathana Samskruti\" or Eternal Heritage Museum, sometimes called the Museum of All Religions, and the \"Chaitanya Jyoti\", devoted exclusively to the life and teachings of Sai Baba; the latter has won several international awards for its architectural design. There is also a planetarium, a railway station, a hill-view stadium, an administrative building, an airport, an indoor sports stadium and more. High-ranking Indian politicians such as the former president A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Andhra Pradesh former chief minister Konijeti Rosaiah and Karnataka chief minister B. S. Yeddyurappa have been official guests at the ashram in Puttaparthi. It was reported that well over a million people attended Sai Baba's 80th birthday celebration, including 13,000 delegates from India and 180 other countries.\n\nSai Baba resided much of the time in his main ashram, \"Prashanthi Nilayam\" (Abode of Highest Peace), at Puttaparthi. In the summer he often left for his other ashram, \"Brindavan\", in Kadugodi, Whitefield, a town on the outskirts of Bangalore. Occasionally he visited his Sai Shruti ashram in Kodaikanal.\n\nSai Baba established three primary mandirs (spiritual centres) in India. The first mandir, founded in Mumbai in 1968, is referred to as either the \"Dharmakshetra\" or \"Sathyam\". The second centre, established in Hyderabad in 1973, is referred to as \"Shivam\". The third, inaugurated on 19 January 1981 in Chennai, is called \"Sundaram\".\nThe Dharmakshetra was established on the occasion of the first world conference (of SSSO).\nMany people from various of parts of the world attended the conference which was held at Bharatiya vidya Bhavan campus at versova, Bombay. It consists of various service centers for devotees like a hospital and eye care center. The educational center consists of various training centers. As a part of Bal Vikas the technical training is provided freely to the children from poor backgrounds by the youth wing of the organization.\n\nReliable sources often describe Sai Baba’s following as a \"movement\". A CIA study states “A worldwide mass religious movement is growing around the Indian holy man and miracle worker, Sathya Sai Baba.” Later noting, “The Sai Baba movement is likely to eventually become another worldwide religion.” Among scholars, we find it referred to often as either a “New Religious Movement” (NRM) or as a cult, it appears it is not immune to what Robbins and Zablocki, two social science researchers, call “the divisive polarization, which, at least until recently, has plagued the academic study of religious movements.” referencing a wide divide of two camps within academia, each preferring one term over the other (i.e. NRM or cult) for such groups'; It's been noted by Eugene Gallagher, that in more modern times \"'New Religious movement', on the other hand, is a classification preferred by most academics, who see 'cult' as a pejorative term and intend to replace it with a more neutral label.” It is regarded by most scholars to be of Hindu persuasion.\n\nSai Baba claimed to be the reincarnation of Sai Baba of Shirdi, and his followers considered him to be the Avatar of Shiva. Sai Baba of Shirdi was known to combine Islamic and Hindu teachings; still Charles S. J. White, of The American University at Washington D.C., noted of Sathya Sai Baba in 1972, that \"there is no discernible Muslim influence.\" Stephanie Tallings, in The Harvard international Review, noted Sai Baba’s following is drawn from people of all religions, ethnicities, and social classes. Lawrence A. Babb, of the Amherst College in Massachusetts, labelled Sai Baba movement as a cult in the 1980s, calling it \"deeply and authentically Hindu...\" and noted, \" The most striking feature of this cult, however, is the extremely strong emphasis given to the miraculous.\" However, a scholarly review claims Babb misapplies the word “cult”, responding, \"the so-called 'cult' of Satya Sai Baba seems to possess all such characteristics which are, according to the author, central to a religious movement.\" Deborah A. Swallow, of the University of Cambridge, referred to it as a cult and said that the \"ritual and theology, then, unlike Sai Baba [of Shirdi]'s, is distinctly Hindu in form and content.\" But John D. Kelly, a professor of anthropology at the University of Chicago, wrote about Hindu missions in Fiji that the Sathya Sai Organization (which is part of the movement) rejected the label Hindu. According to Kelly, they see their founder as the \"living synthesis of the world's religious traditions\" and prefer to be classified as an interfaith movement. But he observed that Sai Baba mission is a Hindu mission as active as Christian or Muslim missions. In a 2001 scholarly book Tulasi Srinivas, notes, “The Sathya Sai global civil religious movement incorporates Hindu and Muslim practices, Buddhist, Christian, and Zoroastrian influences, and \"New Age\"-style rituals and beliefs.’ And in the appendix of the book (p. 349) lists 10 scholarly authors/researchers in both Europe and America who all refer to it as a New Religious Movement (NRM).\n\nSai Baba was known for his quote \"Love All, Serve All. Help Ever, Hurt Never.\" Internationally, his devotees gather daily, or weekly on Sundays or Thursdays or both, for devotional songs, prayer, spiritual meditation, service to the community (Seva), and to participate in \"Education in Human Values\" (SSEHV) known as \"Bal Vikas\" (Blossoming of the Child).\n\nFollowers believed in seeking the spiritual benefit of Sai Baba's \"darshan\", scheduled for morning and afternoon each day. Sai Baba would interact with people, accept letters, materialise and distribute vibhuti (sacred ash) or call groups or individuals for interviews. Devotees considered it a great privilege to have an interview and sometimes a single person, group or family was invited for a private interview for answers to spiritual questions and general guidance.\n\nAccusations against Sai Baba by his critics over the years have included sleight of hand, sexual abuse, money laundering, fraud in the performance of service projects, and murder.\n\nIn 1972 Abraham Kovoor made the first public criticism of Sai Baba when he looked into a claim publicly narrated by one devotee that Sai Baba had created a new model of a Seiko watch, and found the claim to be untrue.\n\nIn April 1976, Hossur Narasimhaiah, a physicist, rationalist and then vice-chancellor of Bangalore University, founded and chaired a committee \"to rationally and scientifically investigate miracles and other verifiable superstitions\". Narasimhaiah wrote Sai Baba three widely publicised letters challenging him to perform his miracles under controlled conditions. The letters were ignored. Sai Baba said that he ignored Narasimhaiah's challenge because he felt his approach was improper, adding that \"Science must confine its inquiry only to things belonging to the human senses, while spiritualism transcends the senses. If you want to understand the nature of spiritual power you can do so only through the path of spirituality and not science. What science has been able to unravel is merely a fraction of the cosmic phenomena ...\" Narasimhaiah's committee was dissolved in August 1977. According to Erlendur Haraldsson, the committee's formal challenge came to a dead end because of its negative attitude and perhaps because of the fanfare surrounding it. Narasimhaiah held the fact that Sai Baba ignored his letters to be one of several indications that his miracles were fraudulent. As a result of this episode, a public debate raged for several months in Indian newspapers.\n\nIndian rationalist Basava Premanand, who began campaigning against Sai Baba in 1976, unsuccessfully attempted to sue him in 1986 for violations of the Gold Control Act, citing Sai Baba's purported materialisations of gold objects. When the case was dismissed, Premanand unsuccessfully appealed on the grounds that claimed spiritual power is not a defence recognised in law.\n\nA 1995 TV documentary \"Guru Busters\", produced by filmmaker Robert Eagle for the UK's Channel 4, accused Sai Baba of faking his materialisations. The clip from the film was mentioned in the \"Deccan Chronicle\", on 23 November 1992, in a front-page headline \"DD Tape Unveils Baba Magic\". But Haraldsson stated that, on investigating the DD video, researchers did not find evidence of fake materialisation. According to Haraldsson, the video was taken to a company that investigates corporate fraud, which found that it did not provide firm evidence of sleight of hand.\n\nIn 1998, British journalist Mick Brown stated in his book \"The Spiritual Tourist\" that in his opinion claims of Sai Baba resurrecting American devotee Walter Cowan in 1971 were probably untrue. His opinion was based on letters from the attending doctors presented in the magazine \"Indian Skeptic\", published by Basava Premanand. Brown also related, in the same book, his experiences with manifestations of \"vibuthi\" from Sai Baba's pictures in houses in London, which he felt were not fraudulent or the result of trickery. Brown wrote with regards to Sai Baba's claims of omniscience, that \"sceptics have produced documentation clearly showing discrepancies between Baba's reading of historical events and biblical prophecies, and the established accounts.\"\n\nIn January 2002, a documentary produced by Denmark's national television and radio broadcast company, Danmarks Radio (DR), named \"Seduced By Sai Baba\", analysed videos of public manifestations of Sai Baba, and suggested that they could be explained as sleight of hand. The documentary also presented interviews with Alaya Rahm, former devotee of the cult, where he alleged sexual abuse by Sai Baba. As a result, in 2002 the Parliament of the United Kingdom discussed the possible danger to male children of British families intending to visit the ashram of Sathya Sai Baba in case of individual audiences with the guru.\n\nIn 2004, the BBC produced a documentary titled \"The Secret Swami\", as part of its series \"The World Uncovered\". One central theme of the BBC documentary was again Alaya Rahm's sexual abuse allegations against Sai Baba. This documentary interviewed him together with Mark Roche, who had spent 25 years of his life since 1969 in the movement and alleged abuse by Sai Baba. The show also featured allegations from Sai Baba critic Basava Premanand. Premanand stated in the documentary that, in his opinion, Sai Baba faked his materialisations. Here, he claimed that Sai Baba was \"not just a fraud, but a dangerous sexual abuser\". According to his interview, he had stories which spanned 30 years, and he stated that his stories were similar, a common practice being the rubbing of genitals with oil by the spiritual leader. Among his claims were that one ex-devotee claimed Sai Baba \"put the oil on his hands, told me to drop my pants and rubbed my genitals with the oil\". Premanand theorised that many Indian boys were abused but were never heard from because they were too afraid to speak out, alleging Sai Baba was well-connected with the elite and powerful of India.\n\nSai Baba and his followers reject any allegations of misconduct. Devotee Bill Aitken was quoted by \"The Week\" as saying that Sai Baba's reputation had not been harmed by the negative stories published about him. He said that the more detractors railed against Sai Baba, the more new devotees went to see him.\n\nIn the article \"Divine Downfall\", published in the \"Daily Telegraph\", Anil Kumar, the ex-principal of the Sathya Sai Educational Institute, said that he believed that the controversy was part of Baba's divine plan and that all great religious teachers had to face criticism during their lives. Anil Kumar also said that allegations had been levelled at Sai Baba since childhood, but with every criticism he had become more and more triumphant.\n\nIn the book \"Redemptive Encounters: Three Modern Styles in the Hindu Tradition\", Lawrence A. Babb wrote of Sai Baba, \"Whoever he is, he is certainly more than the mere parlour magician many of his critics claim that he is.\"\n\nSai Baba publicly responded to the allegations on 25 December 2000:\n\"The Times of India\" on 26 December 2000 quoted Sai Baba as saying: \n\nIn an official letter made public in December 2001, Atal Bihari Vajpayee (then Prime Minister of India and a devotee of Sai Baba), P.N. Bhagwati (Former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India), Ranganath Misra (Chair Person, National Human Rights Commissioner of India and Former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India), Najma Heptulla (President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union; UNDP Distinguished Human Development Ambassador) and Shivraj Patil (Member of Parliament, India; Formerly of the Lok Sabha & Union Minister) all signed the following statement:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38078517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38078517", "title": "Serkal syndrome", "text": "Serkal syndrome\n\nSERKAL syndrome (SEx Reversion, Kidneys, Adrenal and Lung dysgenesis) is an autosomal recessive disorder in XX humans. It is caused by loss of function in WNT4, a protein involved in sex development. The main outcome is female to male sex reversal.\n\nThe disorder is linked a mutation in the \"Wnt4\" gene. There is an intraexonic homozygous C to T transition at cDNA position 341. This leads to an alanine to valine residue substitution at amino acid position 114, a location highly conserved in all organisms, including zebrafish and Drosophila. A subsequent influence on mRNA stability leads to protein loss of function. WNT4 usually represses male sex development.\n\nThe effect of the disorder is female to male sex reversal. Patients also exhibit renal, adrenal, and lung dysgenesis. One indicator is low levels of unconjugated estriol in maternal serum, because this denotes adrenal hypoplasia.\n"}
{"id": "17454635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17454635", "title": "Sleep onset latency", "text": "Sleep onset latency\n\nIn sleep science, sleep onset latency (SOL) is the length of time that it takes to accomplish the transition from full wakefulness to sleep, normally to the lightest of the non-REM sleep stages.\n\nPioneering Stanford University sleep researcher William C. Dement reports early development of the concept, and of the first test for it, the Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT), in his book \"The Promise of Sleep\". Dement and colleagues including Mary Carskadon had been seeking an objective measure of daytime sleepiness to help assess the effects of sleep disorders. In the course of evaluating experimental results, they realized that the amount of time it took to fall asleep in bed was closely linked to the subjects' own self-evaluated level of sleepiness. \"This may not seem like an earthshaking epiphany, but conceiving and developing an objective measure of sleepiness was perhaps one of the most important advances in sleep science,\" Dement and coauthor Christopher Vaughn write of the discovery.\n\nWhen they initially developed the MSLT, Dement and others put subjects in a quiet, dark room with a bed and asked them to lie down, close their eyes and relax. They noted the number of minutes, ranging from 0 to 20, that it took a subject to fall asleep. If a volunteer was still awake after 20 minutes, the experiment was ended and the subject given a maximal alertness/minimal sleepiness rating. When scientists deprived subjects of sleep, they found sleep latency levels could drop below 1, i.e., subjects could fall asleep in less than a minute. The amount of sleep loss was directly linked to changes in sleep latency scores.\n\nThe studies eventually led Dement and Carskadon to conclude that \"the brain keeps an exact accounting of how much sleep it is owed\". Not getting enough sleep during any given period of time leads to a phenomenon called sleep debt, which lowers sleep latency scores and makes sleep-deprived individuals fall asleep more quickly.\n\nFor home-testing for an unusually low sleep latency and potential sleep deprivation, the authors point to a technique developed by Nathaniel Kleitman, the \"father of sleep research.\" The subject reclines in a quiet, darkened room and drapes a hand holding a spoon over the edge of the bed or chair, placing a plate on the floor beneath the spoon. After checking the time, the subject tries to relax and fall asleep. When sleep is attained, the spoon will fall and strike the plate, awakening the subject, who then checks to see how much time has passed. The number of minutes passed is the sleep onset latency at that particular hour on that particular day.\n\nDement advises against doing these evaluations at night when sleep onset latency can naturally be lower, particularly in older people. Instead, he suggests testing sleep onset latency during the day, ideally at 10:00 a.m., 12:30 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. A sleep onset latency of 0 to 5 minutes indicates severe sleep deprivation, 5 to 10 minutes is \"troublesome,\" 10 to 15 minutes indicates a mild but \"manageable\" degree of sleep debt, and 15 to 20 minutes is indicative of \"little or no\" sleep debt.\n\nContemporary sleep researchers, including Paul Shaw of Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, have been pursuing development of biological indicators, or biomarkers, of sleepiness. In December 2006, Shaw reported online in \"The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" that his lab had shown that levels of amylase increased in fruit fly saliva when the flies were sleep-deprived. He then showed that human amylase also increased as human subjects were deprived of sleep.\n"}
{"id": "36884596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36884596", "title": "Steven K. Baum", "text": "Steven K. Baum\n\nSteven K. Baum is a genocide scholar, gerontologist with an MA in psychopharmacology from New Mexico State University (2010). He has written several books including \"The Psychology of Genocide\" (Cambridge University Press 2008), \"Antisemitism Explained\" (UPA 2012), and with co-editors Florette Cohen and Steven L. Jacobs, \"Antisemitism in North America: New World, Old Hate\" (Brill). He founded with N. E. Rosenberg and is chief editor of the \"Journal for the Study of Antisemitism\" (JSA). Baum practices psychology in Albuquerque, New Mexico.\n\nAs chief editor of the Journal for the Study of Antisemitism, Baum became entangled in politics when the inaugural issue of the journal led to the temporary dismissal of board member with several board members resigning for an article critical of ZfA—the . Heni was reinstated and several who resigned returned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14247208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14247208", "title": "Ten Days in a Mad-House", "text": "Ten Days in a Mad-House\n\nTen Days in a Mad-House is a book by American journalist Nellie Bly. It was initially published as a series of articles for the \"New York World\"; Bly later compiled the articles into a book, being published by Ian L. Munro in New York City in 1887.\n\nThe book was based on articles written while Bly was on an undercover assignment for the \"New York World\", feigning insanity at a women's boarding house, so as to be involuntarily committed to an insane asylum. She then investigated the reports of brutality and neglect at the Women's Lunatic Asylum on Blackwell's Island.\n\nThe book received acclaim from critics at the time. Accumulation of her reportage and the release of her content brought her fame and led to a grand jury investigation and financial increase in the Department of Public Charities and Corrections.\n\nBly left the \"Pittsburgh Dispatch\" in 1887 for New York City. Penniless after four months, she talked her way into the offices of Joseph Pulitzer's newspaper the \"New York World\", and took an undercover assignment for which she agreed to feign insanity to investigate reports of brutality and neglect at the Women's Lunatic Asylum on Blackwell's Island.\n\nAfter a night spent practicing expressions in front of a mirror, she checked into a boardinghouse. She refused to go to bed, telling the boarders that she was afraid of them and that they looked \"crazy.\" They soon decided that \"she\" was \"crazy,\" and the next morning summoned the police. Taken to a courtroom, she claimed to have amnesia. The judge concluded she had been drugged.\n\nSeveral doctors then examined her; all declared her insane. \"Positively demented,\" said one, \"I consider it a hopeless case. She needs to be put where someone will take care of her.\" The head of the insane pavilion at Bellevue Hospital pronounced her \"undoubtedly insane\". The case of the \"pretty crazy girl\" attracted media attention: \"Who Is This Insane Girl?\" asked the \"New York Sun\". \"The New York Times\" wrote of the \"mysterious waif\" with the \"wild, haunted look in her eyes\" and her desperate cry: \"I can't remember I can't remember.\"\n\nCommitted to the asylum, Bly experienced the deplorable conditions firsthand. The food consisted of gruel broth, spoiled beef, bread that was little more than dried dough, and dirty undrinkable water. The dangerous patients were tied together with ropes. The patients were made to sit for much of each day on hard benches with scant protection from the cold. Waste was all around the eating places. Rats crawled all around the hospital. The bathwater was frigid and buckets of it were poured over their heads. The nurses behaved obnoxiously and abusively, telling the patients to shut up, and beating them if they did not. Speaking with her fellow patients, Bly was convinced that some were as \"sane\" as she was. On the effect of her experiences, she wrote:\n\nWhat, excepting torture, would produce insanity quicker than this treatment? Here is a class of women sent to be cured. I would like the expert physicians who are condemning me for my action, which has proven their ability, to take a perfectly sane and healthy woman, shut her up and make her sit from 6 a.m. until 8 p.m. on straight-back benches, do not allow her to talk or move during these hours, give her no reading and let her know nothing of the world or its doings, give her bad food and harsh treatment, and see how long it will take to make her insane. Two months would make her a mental and physical wreck.\n\nA particularly memorable experience for Nellie were the baths that the patients received. The patients were washed and roughly scrubbed with the same bath water as many of the other women. The bath water was rarely changed, and even when it was filthy and eventually changed, the asylum staff did not scrub or clean out the bath. The water was merely replaced and the next patient thrown in. The patients also shared bath towels, some healthy patients even drying off with a towel just used by another patient with a skin inflammation or boils and cuts. Nellie recalled the bathing ritual with trepidation, stating: \n\n\"My teeth chattered and my limbs were goose-fleshed and blue with cold. Suddenly I got, one after the other, three buckets of water over my head—ice-cold water, too—into my eyes, my ears, my nose and my mouth.\"\nAfter ten days, the asylum released Bly at \"The World\"s behest. Her report, published in \"The World\" and later released as a book, caused a sensation and brought her lasting fame.\n\nThe question in hand was how Nellie managed to convince professionals of her insanity in the first place. As revealed in her first hand account, \"Ten Days in a Madhouse\", Nellie spoke on how the main physician that performed her examination was more focused on the attractive nurse that was assisting the examination than with Nellie herself. While physicians and staff worked to explain how she had deceived so many professionals, Bly's report prompted a grand jury to launch its own investigation with Bly assisting. The jury's report resulted in an $850,000 increase in the budget of the Department of Public Charities and Corrections. The grand jury also ensured that future examinations were more thorough such that only the seriously ill were committed to the asylum.\n\nAn independent film version of \"10 Days in a Madhouse\", written and directed by Timothy Hines, starring Caroline Barry, Christopher Lambert, Kelly Le Brock and Julia Chantrey, was released in 2015 from Pendragon Pictures.\n\nIn March, 2018 a stage version of Ten Days in a Madhouse, written and directed by Tony Vezner was produced at Concordia University in Irvine, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27076", "title": "The Doctor (Star Trek: Voyager)", "text": "The Doctor (Star Trek: Voyager)\n\nThe Doctor, an Emergency Medical Hologram Mark I (or EMH for short), is a fictional character from the television series \"\", played by actor Robert Picardo. The character also appeared in \"\", as well as the now-closed amusement exhibition at the Las Vegas Hilton. He is the \"Chief Medical Officer\".\n\nThe Doctor began his service on the USS \"Voyager\" as the standard Emergency Medical Hologram built into almost every newer Starfleet ship's sickbay. The EMH is for use should the ship's doctor be incapacitated. In the series' first episode, \"Voyager\"s chief medical officer, along with his nurse, was killed, necessitating extended use of the EMH. The EMH eventually developed his own personality, although he generally maintained his acerbic wit, and irritating \"version one\" bedside manner. As he was originally intended as a temporary medical backup system, not as a digital life form, \"Voyager\"s journey strains his programming to some limits. His cohorts were Kes and Tom Paris, both of whom functioned as nurses.\n\nAttempting to develop a realistic personality, The Doctor not only manufactured a holographic family, he had an increasing number of other \"human\" experiences. This resulted in The Doctor's program evolving to become more lifelike, with emotions and ambitions. He developed meaningful and complex relationships with many members of the ship's crew. The Doctor also developed talents as a playwright, artist, and photographer, and even became a connoisseur of opera. He has had multiple other experiences with \"family\", including having had a son with a \"roommate\" while trapped on a planet for 3 years. During the episode, \"Blink Of An Eye\", he asked an associate to inquire further on his progeny.\n\nA recurring theme was the ethical aspects of an artificial, yet apparently sentient, being. In \"\" treating two patients with an equal chance of survival, with only enough time to treat one, The Doctor chose Harry Kim, a friend. The other patient, Ensign Jetal, died. The Doctor was overwhelmed with guilt, believing that his friendship influenced his choice. When the stress nearly led to his program breaking down, Captain Janeway had his memories of these events deleted. When The Doctor later discovered clues as to what had happened, Captain Janeway was convinced by him and others that he had a right to learn to come to grips with the guilt in the manner of any other sentient being rather than be treated merely as a defective piece of equipment.\n\nThe Doctor submitted a holonovel titled \"Photons Be Free\" to a publisher on Earth, detailing the manner in which holograms were sometimes treated by Starfleet. His characters were closely based on \"Voyager\"s crew, but exaggerated to appear more intense and vicious, creating fears among the crew their reputations would be ruined. Tom Paris convinced The Doctor to make adjustments without sacrificing his theme. The Doctor lacked legal rights as Federation law did not classify him as a \"sentient being\". Thus he was forbidden to make any subsequent changes to the holonovel. Captain Janeway's efforts resulted in The Doctor being accorded the status of \"artist\", (though not a \"person\"). This permitted him to rewrite the novel. Four months later, it was known throughout the Alpha Quadrant as a very thought-provoking piece of work. Several other EMHs, now relegated to mining duty, experienced the novel.\nThe Doctor's standard greeting was \"Please state the nature of the medical emergency\" when activated, though later modified to say whatever he chose. He was later given the ability to activate and deactivate himself.\n\nThe Doctor later acquired a mobile holographic emitter from the 29th century. Although he had previously been confined to Sickbay or the Holodeck, the mobile emitter allowed The Doctor to move about freely, making him ideal for missions where the environment would be harmful or otherwise fatal to the crew. In one notable incident, when an away team was trapped on a radioactive planet, The Doctor was able to infiltrate the people and almost single-handedly rescue the team because, as he pointed out, being a hologram renders him immune to the radiation, stating that \"being a hologram does have its advantages.\"\n\nThe Doctor's programming evolved from his first romance, Dr. Denara Pel, to the point where he fell in love with Seven of Nine, though she did not reciprocate. In an alternate future episode, \"\", The Doctor finally adopts a name (see below) and marries a human female named Lana.\n\nIn the final episode of \"Star Trek: Voyager\", a future version of Janeway also informs him of his later invention of a device known as a 'synaptic transceiver', something that fascinates The Doctor; he's cut off by the 'present' Janeway, who is abiding by the Temporal Prime Directive, before he can learn more.\n\nThe \"Emergency Command Hologram\", aka \"ECH\", is first coined by The Doctor in the episode \"Tinker, Tenor, Doctor, Spy\", in which he creates a program which allows him to daydream.\n\nIn these grandiose daydreams, The Doctor adds routines which allow him to take command of \"Voyager\" in the event of the command crew being disabled.\n\nA dramatic morph transformation occurs changing his uniform from medical blue to command red, his rank pips subsequently appearing. The daydreams are picked up by a Hierarchy vessel in a nearby nebula and believed to be real events.\n\nOnce the crew discover that The Doctor is daydreaming they use the holodeck to view his dreams, including the one expressing his desire to be an Emergency Command Hologram. Captain Janeway promises to consider his proposal.\n\nThe Doctor soon gets the opportunity to live out his daydreams as, with the assistance of the crew, he pretends to be in charge to neutralize a war fleet.\n\nThe ECH made its debut the following season in \"\", in which after an incident with a subspace mine that releases a great amount of tetryon radiation, the crew is forced to abandon ship. To keep the ship moving The Doctor takes over the command functions.\n\nIn the episode \"\", against the wishes of the crew, The Doctor uses his ECH program to eject the warp core.\n\nThe Doctor's program required a custom-built photonic processor, and Starfleet outfitted \"Voyager\" with only two. This hardware itself also could not be replicated, hence the Doctor could not be easily backed up, restored, or copied.\n\n\"Voyager\"'s computers could not help run his photonic program, and could not contain a usable backup of its image. The Doctor's entire program used 50 million gigaquads - episodes \"\" and \"\" mention these limitations. The episode \"Living Witness\" depicts a future Delta Quadrant civilization building a museum around \"Voyager\" artifacts, including its redundant EMH photonic processor.\n\nA recurring theme in the Doctor's life was his lack of a proper name. Starfleet did not assign a name to him, and initially the Doctor claimed that he did not want one until the episode “Eye of the Needle,” when he asks Kes to be given a name. He later adopted such names as 'Schweitzer' (after Albert Schweitzer), ‘Shmullus’ (by Vidiian patient Dr. Denara Pel), ‘Van Gogh,’ ‘Kenneth,‘ ‘Jones’ and several others. His friends suggest the famous historical Earth doctors \"Galen\" and \"Spock\". The captioned dialog of early episodes, and early promotional material for the series premiere, referred to him as ‘Dr. Zimmerman,’ after his creator Lewis Zimmerman. The Doctor is ultimately referred to as simply \"The Doctor\" and addressed as \"Doctor\", which he answers to without concern, and the issue of the Doctor's name virtually disappears over the course of the series. However, in the , in an alternate future timeline, the Doctor has finally chosen the name \"Joe\", after his new wife's grandfather (Tom Paris remarks that \"it took you \"33 years\" to come up with \"Joe\"?\").\n\nBefore the arrival of the mobile emitter, The Doctor's holo-program was confined to Sickbay, holodecks, and other areas equipped with holographic systems.\n\nDepending on the availability of suitable holographic patterns and the capacity of his pattern buffers, The Doctor can alter his appearance.\n\nThe Doctor is also able to download his program and personality subroutines into a humanoid with Borg implants, indirectly 'possessing' that individual and gaining control over its 'host' body. Such is the case when he was forced to hide within the body of Seven of Nine.\n\nThe EMH is a holographic computer program designed to treat patients during emergency situations, or when the regular medical staff is unavailable or incapacitated. EMHs are a standard feature onboard all Starfleet ships, but they are there only to supplement the living medical crew, not replace it. Programmed with all current Starfleet medical knowledge, The Doctor and all Mark I programs are equipped with the knowledge and mannerisms of historic Federation doctors, as well as the physical appearance of their programmer Dr. Lewis Zimmerman. Zimmerman, along with the EMH, appeared in the \"\" episode \"Doctor Bashir, I Presume?\", in which the former was in the process of trying to upgrade Starfleet's EMH programs to LMH, i.e. Long-term Medical Hologram, status.\n\nThere has been only one update to the Mark I seen on screen, the Mark II played by Andy Dick in the episode \"\", which supposedly had a \"better\" bedside manner than the Mark I, as well as possibly some updated medical information. However, later episodes mention that further versions of the EMH exist.\n\nPicardo had a minor role in the movie \"\", where he played the emergency medical hologram of the USS \"Enterprise\"-E. Doctor Beverly Crusher activates him, albeit reluctantly, as a means of distracting the Borg while she and other crew members escape from the besieged sickbay. He replies, \"I'm a doctor, not a doorstop\", an homage to Doctor McCoy's catchphrase line \"I'm a doctor, not a ...\" (The Doctor also made this reference several other times, on \"Voyager\".) Nevertheless, when the Borg do break in, he does attempt to distract them by noting that Borg implants can cause skin irritation and offering to prescribe an analgesic cream. Although the Borg would be unable to harm or assimilate him, he still appears intimidated as they advance upon him. Another EMH appeared in the \"\" episode \"Doctor Bashir I Presume\".\n\nHis reference to an analgesic cream in this scene was reprised in the PC video game \"\".\n\nPicardo initially auditioned for Neelix. Despite Ethan Phillips getting the part, Picardo was asked by the producers to come back and audition for The Doctor — something that shocked him, because usually actors would be passed over completely. During his audition for the role of The Doctor, Picardo was asked only to say, \"Somebody forgot to terminate my program.\" However, he then ad libbed, \"I'm a doctor, not a nightlight!\" (Picardo was initially afraid that he may have ruined his chances—ad libbing, he explained, was something that one just \"did not do\" in an audition.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24666107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24666107", "title": "The European Journal of Contraception &amp; Reproductive Health Care", "text": "The European Journal of Contraception &amp; Reproductive Health Care\n\nThe European Journal of Contraception and Reproductive Health Care is a peer-reviewed medical journal that covers all areas of contraception and reproductive health. It is the official journal of the European Society of Contraception and Reproductive Health.\n\n"}
{"id": "31681409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31681409", "title": "The New York NRT Distribution Program", "text": "The New York NRT Distribution Program\n\nThe New York NRT Distribution Program is a program that provides smokers with a way to help them quit their smoking habits. This article focuses on the aid of helping smokers fight their battle. Nicotine patch and Nicotine gum are distributed for free in the streets of NYC or on the internet. The program offers a \"'quit coach'\" as a person to converse with to help increase chances of quitting. NRT works as a program of an array of Smoking cessations and support material helping to beat the addiction. The slogan used is \"'Don't be a heart attack waiting to happen'\".\n\nNicotine patches or gum may double the chances of quitting. It works by helping take away the nicotine withdrawal sensations. This program offers these Smoking cessations at no price to encourage people to quit smoking. To see if a person is eligible for a free starters kit, he/she must submit an application to kick off starting the end of smoking. \"'The New York State Smokers' Quitline'\" offers its program for everyone as a confidential counseling service along with counseling and cessation-related services to patients who use tobacco products. Once applied, the patient will receive a follow-up call. Patients will receive a Stop-Smoking or Stop-Smokeless-Tobacco packet in the mail with information fit for the specific person and a list of local programs. A form of information will be sent back to the health care provider or the patients tobacco-use status. The patient can be referred to the New York State Smokers' Quitline as often as they need to be referred. There is a 24/7 online quit coach chat room called \"'Breathe'\" for those who need aid at that very moment.\n\nThe quitline features employer champions who provide employee cessation benefits and support to others. The featured champion is Dr. James L. Schuppert of Corning. According to the Public Health Service, the \"'Clinical Practice Guideline'\" (CPG) is required for this program. 1. Cover at least four counseling sessions. 2. Cover \"'nicotine replacement therapies'\" (NRT). Clients are supposed to be eligible for this for up to 4–8 weeks to maintain their tobacco abstinence. 3. Provide counseling and NRT coverage for at least two smoking attempts per year.\nTelephone offerings are in English or Spanish. There is a listing of local stop smoking programs and referrals to local stop smoking programs. Dr. James L. Schuppert is the Director of the Health Services at Corning Corporate Medical Department. Is a work certified internist and has worked at Corning for over 16 years. Patricia Bax is the Marketing Coordinator for the New York State Smokers' Quitline. The company has great values and obviously a lot of care for the health and safety of the members and employees. He plays a role in making sure to keep this image. I's based on great leadership and strategic growth in getting the successful outcome they are looking for. Poor health was contributing to Corning's cost so it was not unusual that the company going into difficult economic times. The company has been able to add some components to the company. It is always better to repair something than to change it so the company found this program best to fit for people who are struggling to quit. Their hotline number is 1-866-NY-QUITS (1-866-697-8487). Their hours of operation for their hot-line is Monday-Thursday 9am-9pm and Friday, Saturday, Sunday 9am-5pm. If someone is a smokers and is identified by the assessment test they will be offered the proper help, this helps the people more than just a free patch or free nicotine gum, it offers ongoing help throughout the process.\n\nThis program offers a good support system to the people in this world that can't just say they have a smoking addiction. People understand the harms of a nicotine addiction but are not willing to take the steps to getting better on their own. They live in denial that an addiction lives within them and this program allows people the mental and tangible support to make the addiction a reality. It offers a hotline to talk about how the smoking has become out of hand and an assessment test to see how far the addiction has come. It helps review what did and did not work on previous attempts of quitting. It helps people get ready and do anything BUT smoke. Negative thinking can get in a persons way and block their sense of reality so they enforce you to stay positive. Although the phone call session is over and the nicotine patch or nicotine gum was sent, the program send an assessment to the persons primary physician to continue helping the patient overcome the battle. The program is a reliable way to help people get out of their addiction and slowly move on. The provide tools to help you quit because it is never too late.\n\nWhen people with a history of depression stop smoking, there are depressive symptoms or actual depression that may result from this. This can end up being harmful for the patient. The patient may have been better or by slowly coming off the addiction and may not have been seen in the assessment. Another concern relates to the fact that people may become addicted to the NRT product and turn back to tobacco products to save money. The NRT program is a luxury. It has become a luxury to quit. And although this program allows a free starters kit, the whole point of quitting is the long term struggle and being able to face it. Typically, the cost of NRT lasting seven days is up to expensive over the counter, whether gum or patch, as against cigarettes.\n\nNicotine itself has not been shown to be cancerous, but it has been suggested that it may cause more harmful conditions for cancer to grow. There is also always a chance that when using NRT products it is easy to become addicted to those products in the place of the tobacco. Generally it is said and argued that NRT products are safer than smoking tobacco but, there are also a lot of important concerns for the safety of the children and infants when the mother uses any sort of NRT.\n"}
{"id": "17054157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17054157", "title": "Tobacco Products Control Act, 1993", "text": "Tobacco Products Control Act, 1993\n\nThe Tobacco Products Control Act was introduced in South Africa in 1993, where smoking has been rated the second highest health concern, after HIV/AIDS. \n\nThis act has been amended several time during the past decade and today South Africa has some of the strictest tobacco control measures ever adopted by the government of a developing country. It is estimated that cigarette consumption has fallen dramatically since the early 1990s while the percentage of adult smokers in the country has dropped from 32 to 26.5 percent.\n\nThe South African Government passed the first Tobacco Products Control Act in 1993 and started implementing the act in 1995. The act regulated smoking in public areas and prohibited tobacco sales to people under the age of 16. Some aspects of tobacco advertising were also regulated for example labelling.\n\nThe 1993 act was not considered to be comprehensive enough and the Tobacco Products Control Amendment Act was passed in 1999. This act bans all advertising and promotion of tobacco products, including sponsorship and free distribution of tobacco products. The act also restricts smoking in public places which includes the workplace, restaurants and bars and public transport. The act also stipulates penalties for transgressors of the law, and specifies the maximum permissible levels of tar and nicotine. The regulations were implemented in 2001.\n\nThe government proposed further amendments to the bill in 2007 which will seek to deal with new practices designed to circumvent the provisions of the Act. These amendments will also aim to bring the current law into compliance with the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC). This framework has been ratified by the South African government.\n\nThe former minister Madlala-Routledge was quoted:\n\nThe Bill further proposes a number of amendments to the Act, which are designed to promote health and prevent diseases. The main provisions of the Bill are to:\nThe act was amended by Act 36 of 2008 with these changes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23751861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23751861", "title": "Tribhuvandas Foundation", "text": "Tribhuvandas Foundation\n\nTribhuvandas Foundation is a public Charitable trust working with the AMUL milk cooperatives in and around Kheda district of Gujarat. Its mission is to work for betterment of health in rural communities of Central Gujarat\n\nThe Tribhuvandas Foundation was set up by Tribhuvandas Kishibhai Patel- the founding Chairman of the Kheda District Milk Producers Cooperative Union, today better known as AMUL. TF as it is commonly known was registered as a public charitable trust in 1975, under the Bombay Public Trust act, 1950.\n\nTribhuvandas Foundation started activities in 1980, with grants from National Dairy Development Board, AMUL and UNICEF. It later received grants from the Overseas Development Administration, the predecessor to DFID. The initial project plan conceived TF as an Integrated rural development program. It is now a Community health organisation, working mainly on reproductive and child health.\n\nTF covers around 682 villages, working through the village milk cooperatives of AMUL, in 18 talukas in the districts of Anand and Kheda in Gujarat state of India. The population covered would be around 1,600,000 (around sixteen lakhs or one million six hundred thousand). Since 2001 it has launched a rural health insurance scheme, covering around one hundred thousand households.\n\nDuring the financial year, April 1, 2008 to 31 March 2009, the outreach was as under -\n\nUrine Pregnancy Tests done – 11,895\nNew pregnancies registered – 39,934 - 55% registered in first trimester\nNo. of visits to regd. pregnant women – 89,403\nReferrals for High-risk pregnancies - 3,992\nTotal deliveries registered – 36,294 – 80% deliveries in hospital\nLactating mothers provided counseling – 27,094\nFamily planning services provided in field – 23,094\n\nAt birth Male:Female ratio noted in this area – 54:46\nLow Birth Weight less than 2.5 kg babies noted – 11%\nColostrum Feeding in 3 hours of birth – 74%\nNewborn put on KMC - 524\nBath to newborn after 7 days – 15%\nNeo natal Mortality Rate (NMR) – 25\nGr III–IV undernourished children < 1 yr – 4%\nParticipation of TF in Mamta Divas (MCH-vaccination sessions in RCH) – 10,001 events\nAverage ANC/session - 7, Children/session - 13\n\nHouseholds visited for survey – 1,59,511\nPersons contacted – 7,32,365\nPopulation found addicted – 40%\nPersons motivated for de-addiction – 3,379\n“High risk for cancer” persons referred to hospital – 4,622\nConfirmed new cancer patients - 468\nCancer patients followed in field – 2,938\nPatients completed treatment - 77\nCancer Awareness Meetings held – 16,176\nCancer diagnosis camps held 5 - 738 patients attended\n\nViewers of health exhibition in 65 villages– 8,804\n\n416 Annual General Body Meetings of village milk cooperatives attended\n\nDDKs manufactured – 23,892\nDDKs distributed – 22,160\n\nFrom March 2009, TF has tied up with Sankara Eyecare Institute's Anand Hospital for eyecare in 7 blocks - to eradicate preventable blindness . From March 9 to mid-Sept 09, the Sankara-TF joint efforts have reached around 1100 people - who have been provided COMPLETELY FREE eye surgeries, mostly for senile cataract. Training inputs have been provided to all village health workers of TF.\n\nTF has also been enlisted to provide training to members of Village Health and Sanitation Committees of Village Gram Panchayats of all the villages of Umreth, Anklav and Anand talukas of Anand District and Balasinor and Virpur talukas of Kheda District during the financial year 08-09. The Gujarat state government has provided grants for this project of around Rs.1100,000 (eleven lakhs or one million one hundred thousand rupees).\n\nApart from community health, TF also has programs for children, (Balwadi program) and for livelihood enhancement of women (handicrafts). TF also has organised anti tobacco campaigns in its program villages.\n\nThe Chairperson of the National Dairy Development Board, Dr.(Ms) Amrita Patel assessed the organisation thus in an international workshop \" Tribhuvandas Foundation, which is Asia’s largest NGO, works in over 600 villages in the State in the field of maternal and infant care. What is unique about the programme of the Foundation is that it rides on the back of milk. It is the village milk co-operative that appoints a village health worker and pays an honorarium to the village health worker to undertake the work. So it is milk paying for health.\" \n\nAuthor: Halse M. Source: In: National Council for International Health [NCIH], Cooperative League of the U.S.A., Group Health Association of America. Alternative health delivery systems: can they serve the public interest in Third World settings? Occasional papers. Washington, D.C. NCIH, 1984 Aug. :7-11. Document number 026323.*\n\n"}
{"id": "58030213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58030213", "title": "Vince Calhoun", "text": "Vince Calhoun\n\nVince D. Calhoun is a brain imaging acquisition and analysis expert who has created numerous algorithms for making sense of complex brain imaging data. He is the creator of the group independent component analysis algorithm, which has become widely used for extracting 'networks' of coherent activity from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. He was also an early innovator in approaches to characterizes the dynamics of brain connectivity. He has also developed techniques to link many different types of data, called 'data fusion' including various types of brain imaging (structural, functional, connectivity) with genomic and epigenomic data. A key focus of Calhoun's work is the development of tool to identify brain imaging markers to help identify and potentially treat various brain disorders including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, autism, Alzheimer's disease, and many more\n\nCalhoun is currently the President of the Mind Research Network and a Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of New Mexico.\n"}
{"id": "32717086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32717086", "title": "Yale Journal of Medicine and Law", "text": "Yale Journal of Medicine and Law\n\nThe Yale Journal of Medicine & Law is a magazine based at Yale University that explores the intersection of law and medicine, covering topics like healthcare policy, bioethics, healthcare economics, biomedical research, and global health care. The magazine was established in 2003 and is written, edited, and published by Yale University students. Each issue of the \"Yale Journal of Medicine & Law\" focuses on a central theme. Examples of themes included international health care, disease control, alternative medicine, healthcare economics, and military health care. \n\nThe \"Yale Journal of Medicine & Law\" is affiliated with peer publications at other research universities, such as the \"Cambridge Journal of Medicine & Law\", established in 2008 by the Cambridge University Medical Law Society.\n\n"}
