{"id": "19827211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19827211", "title": "2010 Arctic Winter Games", "text": "2010 Arctic Winter Games\n\nThe 2010 Arctic Winter Games were held in Grande Prairie, Alberta, Canada from March 6 to 13th.\n\nThe Arctic Winter Games is an international biannual celebration of circumpolar sports and culture, held in Canada or Alaska.\n\nOver 2,000 athletes from nine teams (Alaska, Alberta North, Yukon, Yamal-Nenets, Northwest Territories, Greenland, Nunavik Québec, Nunavut and Saami) participated in the games.\n\nSports included alpine skiing, arctic sports, badminton, basketball, biathlon, curling, dene games, dog mushing, figure skating, freestyle skiing, gymnastics, hockey, indoor soccer, snowboarding, snowshoeing, speed skating, table tennis, volleyball and wrestling.\n\nThe next Arctic Winter Games were held in 2012 in Whitehorse, Yukon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6645381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6645381", "title": "AS de Bamako", "text": "AS de Bamako\n\nAS Bamako is a Malian football club based in Bamako. They play in the top division in Malian football. Their home stadium is Stade Municipal de Bamako.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55594688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55594688", "title": "Al-Yaqdhah SC", "text": "Al-Yaqdhah SC\n\nAl-Yaqdhah Sports Club () is a Syrian football club based in Deir ez-Zor. It was founded in 1937. They play their home games at the Deir ez-Zor Municipal Stadium.\n"}
{"id": "54770745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54770745", "title": "Amadu Turé", "text": "Amadu Turé\n\nAmadu Turé (born 3 June 1993) is a Guinea-Bissauan footballer who plays for C.D.C. Montalegre, as a forward.\n\nOn 23 July 2017, Turé made his professional debut with Sporting Covilhã in a 2017–18 Taça da Liga match against União Madeira.\n\n"}
{"id": "41459343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41459343", "title": "Basketball uniform", "text": "Basketball uniform\n\nA basketball uniform is a type of uniform worn by basketball players. Basketball uniforms consist of a jersey that features the number and last name of the player on the back, as well as shorts and athletic shoes. Within teams, players wear uniforms representing the team colors; the home team typically wears a lighter-colored uniform, while the visiting team wears a darker-colored uniform.\n\nDifferent basketball leagues have different specifications for the type of uniform that is allowed on the court. Early in the history of the sport, basketball was played in any type of athletic attire, but by the 1900s, special uniforms were developed and marketed to basketball players. The style, cut, and fit of basketball uniforms evolved throughout subsequent decades, often modeled after the general fashion trends of the day.\n\nOriginally, basketball was played in any type of athletic attire, ranging from track suits to football uniforms. The first official basketball uniforms, as displayed in the Spalding catalog of 1901, featured three types of pants: knee-length padded pants, similar to those worn for playing football, as well as shorter pants and knee-length tights. There were two types of suggested jersey, a quarter-length sleeve and a sleeveless version. \n\nThe long pants later evolved into medium-length shorts in the 1920s, and by the 1930s, the material used for jerseys changed from heavy wool to the lighter polyester and nylon. In the 1970s and 80s, uniforms became tighter-fitting and shorts were shorter, consistent with the overall fashion trends of these two decades. At this time, women's basketball uniforms transitioned from longer-sleeved uniforms to tank-top style jerseys similar to men's basketball uniforms, which more explicitly showed off players' muscle tone.\n\nIn 1984, Michael Jordan asked for longer shorts and helped popularize the move away from tight, short shorts toward the longer, baggier shorts worn by basketball players today. Throughout the 1990s, basketball uniforms fell under the influence of hip hop culture, with shorts becoming longer and looser-fitting, team colors brighter, and designs more flashy and suggestive of rappers' bling. At the turn of the 21st century, basketball uniforms became even more oversized and loose-fitting; the arm holes in women's basketball jerseys remained smaller than men's, but were wide enough to reveal the players' sports bras.\nFor the Christmas Day games of 2013, the NBA and its apparel partner Adidas introduced a newly designed sleeved jersey with large team and NBA logos on the front. Marketers for the new uniforms realized that fans were unwilling to wear sleeveless jerseys in their day-to-day life and hoped the new sleeved jerseys would be more popular for everyday wear. However, it was also a \"not-so-well-kept secret that the NBA wanted to implement jersey ads in the years following the introduction of sleeved jerseys\" as the \"sleeves allow more space for potential partners to add their corporate logos to jerseys\" like association football (soccer). After the league deal with Adidas expired and Nike signed on as the new apparel partner, the sleeved jersey did not continue.\n\nThe sleeved jersey was controversial among players. LeBron James famously ripped the sleeves off during a prime time game against the New York Knicks in 2015, but in the 2016 NBA Finals James convinced his teammates to wear the sleeved jerseys in Game 5 and again in the title-clinching Game 7.\n\nIn 1903, a special basketball shoe with suction cups to prevent slippage was added to the official basketball uniform demonstrated in the Spalding catalog. \nOver the decades, different shoe brands and styles were popular as basketball shoes: Chuck Taylor All-Stars and Keds in the 1960s and 70s; Adidas and Nike leather high-tops in the late 1970s and 80s; and Air Jordans in the 1990s.\n\nIn the 1970s, Slick Watts and Bill Walton began to wear headbands, which soon became popular with other players. Rick Barry popularized wrist-bands, and other players soon created variations, such as bands that covered their forearms or biceps. These were used to wipe off sweat, or simply worn as fashion statements.\n\nIn professional basketball leagues today, teams playing at home typically wear lighter-colored uniforms than the visiting team. As of the , the NBA has eliminated the distinction between designated \"home\" and \"away\" uniforms. The home team is now allowed to wear any uniform color it chooses, while its opponent may wear any color that sufficiently contrasts with the home team's choice.\n\nIn the NBA, basketball shorts must fall at least 1 inch above the knee, and T-shirts cannot be worn under the jersey – however, they are permitted in American college basketball. Some NBA and WNBA teams have allowed sponsors' logos to appear on their uniforms.\n\nUniforms are made of wicking material designed to absorb sweat and ensure that it evaporates faster. They are the product of a four-year study researching professional basketball players, who identified the need for fewer seams, lighter weight, and faster drying and cooling in their jerseys.\n\nThe main difference between U.S. basketball uniforms and those of other countries is the appearance of sponsorship iconography; European basketball uniforms are often covered in the logos of their sponsors (similar to association football), while the U.S. uniforms (like other major pro sports) feature the team wordmark/logo front and center. \n\nFor the 2017-18 season, some U.S. teams have started putting sponsorship logos on their jerseys on the upper left of the jersey which is a maximum of 2.5 inches by 2.5 inches.\n\n"}
{"id": "23779302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23779302", "title": "Calgary Rugby Union", "text": "Calgary Rugby Union\n\nThe Calgary Rugby Union is the administrative body for rugby union in Calgary. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "548711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548711", "title": "City of Manchester Stadium", "text": "City of Manchester Stadium\n\nThe City of Manchester Stadium in Manchester, England, currently known as the Etihad Stadium for sponsorship reasons, is the home ground of Manchester City Football Club and with a domestic football capacity of 55,097, the fourth-largest in the Premier League and eighth-largest in the United Kingdom.\n\nBuilt to host the 2002 Commonwealth Games, the stadium has since staged the 2008 UEFA Cup Final, England football internationals, rugby league matches, a boxing world title fight, the England rugby union team's last match of the 2015 Rugby World Cup and summer music concerts during the football off-season.\n\nThe stadium, originally proposed as an athletics arena in Manchester's bid for the 2000 Summer Olympics, was converted after the 2002 Commonwealth Games from a 38,000 capacity arena to a 48,000 seat football stadium at a cost to the city council of £22 million and to Manchester City of £20 million. Manchester City F.C. agreed to lease the stadium from Manchester City Council and moved there from Maine Road in the summer of 2003.\n\nThe stadium was built by Laing Construction at a cost of £112 million and was designed and engineered by ArupSport, whose design incorporated a cable-stayed roof structure which is separated from the main stadium bowl and suspended entirely by twelve exterior masts and attached cables. The stadium design has received much praise and many accolades, including an award from the Royal Institute of British Architects in 2004 for its innovative inclusive building design and a special award in 2003 from the Institution of Structural Engineers for its unique structural design.\n\nIn August 2015, a 7,000 seat third tier on the South Stand was completed, in time for the start of the 2015–16 football season. The expansion was designed to be in keeping with the existing roof design.\n\nPlans to build a new stadium in Manchester were formulated before 1989 as part of the city's bid to host the 1996 Summer Olympics. Manchester City Council submitted a bid that included a design for an 80,000-capacity stadium on a greenfield site west of Manchester city centre. The bid failed and Atlanta hosted the Games. Four years later the city council bid to host the 2000 Summer Olympics, but this time focusing on a brownfield site east of the city centre on derelict land that was the site of Bradford Colliery, known colloquially as Eastlands. The council's shift in focus was driven by emerging government legislation on urban renewal, promising vital support funding for such projects; the government became involved in funding the purchase and clearance of the Eastlands site in 1992.\n\nFor the February 1993 bid the city council submitted another 80,000-capacity stadium design produced by design consultants Arup Associates, the firm that helped select the Eastlands site. On 23 September 1993, the games were awarded to Sydney, but the following year Manchester submitted the same scheme design to the Millennium Commission as a \"Millennium Stadium\", only to have this proposal rejected. Undeterred, Manchester City Council subsequently bid to host the 2002 Commonwealth Games, once again proposing the same site along with downsized stadium plans derived from the 2000 Olympics bid, and this time were successful. In 1996, this same planned stadium competed with Wembley Stadium to gain funding to become the new national stadium, but the money was used to redevelop Wembley.\n\nAfter successful athletics events at the Commonwealth Games, conversion into a football venue was criticised by athletics figures such as Jonathan Edwards and Sebastian Coe as, at the time, the United Kingdom still lacked plans for a large athletics venue due to the capability of installing an athletics track having been dropped from the designs for a rebuilt Wembley Stadium. Had either of the two larger stadium proposals developed by Arup been agreed for funding, then Manchester would have had a venue capable of being adapted to hosting large-scale athletics events through the use of movable seating.\n\nSport England wished to avoid creating a white elephant, so they insisted that the City Council agree to undertake and fund extensive work to convert \"CoMS\" from a track and field arena to a football stadium, thereby ensuring its long-term financial viability. Sport England hoped either Manchester City Council or Manchester City F.C. would provide the extra £50 million required to convert the stadium to a 65,000 seater athletics and footballing venue with movable seating. However, Manchester City Council did not have the money to facilitate movable seating and Manchester City were lukewarm about the idea. Stadium architects Arup Sport believed history demonstrated that maintaining a rarely used athletics track often does not work with football – and cited examples such as the Stadio delle Alpi and the Olympic Stadium with both Juventus and Bayern Munich moving to new stadiums less than 40 years after inheriting them.\n\nThe stadium's foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister Tony Blair in December 1999, and construction began in January 2000. The stadium was designed by Arup Associates and constructed by Laing Construction at a cost of approximately £112 million, £77 million of which was provided by Sport England, with the remainder funded by Manchester City Council. For the Commonwealth Games, the stadium featured a single lower tier of seating running around three sides of the athletics track, and second tiers to the two sides, with an open-air temporary stand at the northern end; initially providing a seating capacity for the Games of 38,000, subsequently extended to 41,000 through the installation of additional temporary trackside seating along the east and south stands.\n\nThe first public event at the stadium was the opening ceremony of the 2002 Commonwealth Games on 25 July 2002. Among the dignitaries present was Queen Elizabeth II who made a speech, delivered to her in an electronic baton, and 'declared the Commonwealth Games open'. During the following ten days of competition, the stadium hosted the track and field events and all the rugby sevens matches. Sixteen new Commonwealth Games track and field records (six men's and ten women's) were set in the stadium, eight of which (three men's and five women's records) are still extant after three subsequent series of Games in 2006, 2010 and 2014. Prior to the 2012 Summer Olympics held in London, the 2002 Games was the largest multi-sport event ever to be staged in the United Kingdom, eclipsing the earlier London 1948 Summer Olympics in numbers of teams and competing athletes (3,679), and it was the world's first multi-sport tournament to include a limited number of full medal events for elite athletes with a disability (EAD). In terms of number of participating nations, it is still the largest Commonwealth Games in history, featuring 72 nations competing in 281 events across seventeen (fourteen individual and three team) sports.\n\nSections of the track were removed and relaid at other athletics venues, and the internal ground level was lowered to make way for an additional tier of seating, on terracing already constructed then buried for the original configuration. The three temporary stands with a total capacity of 16,000 were dismantled, and replaced with a permanent structure of similar design to the existing one at the southern end. This work took nearly a year to complete and added 23,000 permanent seats, increasing the capacity of the converted stadium by 7,000 to approximately 48,000. Manchester City F.C. moved to the ground in time for the start of the 2003–04 season. The total cost of this conversion was in excess of £40 million, with the track, pitch and seating conversion being funded by the city council at a cost of £22 million; and the installation of bars, restaurants and corporate entertainment areas throughout the stadium being funded by the football club at a cost of £20 million. The Games had made a small operating surplus, and Sport England agreed that this could be reinvested in converting the athletics warm-up track adjacent to the main stadium into the 6,000 seat Manchester Regional Arena at a cost of £3.5 million.\n\nThe stadium is owned by Manchester City Council and leased by the football club. The 2008 takeover made the football club one of the wealthiest in the world, prompting suggestions that it could consider buying the stadium outright. Manchester City signed an agreement with Manchester City Council in March 2010 to allow a £1 billion redevelopment led by architect Rafael Viñoly.\n\nDuring the 2010 closed season the football pitch and hospitality areas were renovated, with a £1 million investment being made in the playing surface so that it is better able to tolerate concerts and other events without damage. In October 2010, Manchester City renegotiated the stadium lease, obtaining the naming rights to the stadium in return for agreeing to now pay the City Council an annual fixed sum of £3 million where previously it had only paid half of the ticket sales revenue from match attendances exceeding 35,000. This new agreement occurred as part of a standard five-year review of the original lease and it amounts to an approximate £1 million annual increase in council revenues from the stadium.\nDuring 2011–14, the club sold all 36,000 of its allocated season tickets each season and experienced an average match attendance that is very close to its maximum seating capacity (see table in previous section). Consequently, during the 2014–15 season, an expansion of the stadium was undertaken. The South Stand was extended with the addition of a third tier which, in conjunction with an additional three rows of pitch side seating, increased stadium capacity to approximately 55,000. Construction commenced on the South Stand in April 2014 and was completed for the start of the 2015–16 season.\n\nA final phase of expansion, that received planning approval at the same time as the others but which remains unscheduled, will add a matching third tier of seats to the North Stand. Once this last phase is completed it will bring the stadium's total seating capacity up to approximately 61,000, making the Etihad Stadium the nation's third largest capacity club ground.\n\nWhen planning the development, Manchester City Council required a sustainable landmark structure that would be an icon for the regeneration of the once heavily industrialised site surrounding Bradford Colliery, as well as providing spectators with good sightlines in an atmospheric arena. Arup Associates designed the stadium to be \"an intimate, even intimidating, gladiatorial arena embodying the atmosphere of a football club\" with the pitch six metres below ground level, a feature of Roman gladiatorial arenas and amphitheatres. The attention to detail, often absent in stadium design, has been remarked upon, including the cigar-shaped roof supports with blue lighting beacons, sculpted rainwater gutters, poly-carbonate perimeter roof edging and openable louvres to aid pitch grass growth with similarities also made to high-tech architecture.\n\nThe toroidal-shaped stadium roof is held together by a tensioned system, which has been described as \"ground-breaking\" by \"New Steel Construction\" magazine. The stadium's architectural focal point is the sweeping roof and support masts which are separate from the concrete bowl. A catenary cable is situated around the inner perimeter of the roof structure which is tied to the masts via forestay cables. Backstay cables and corner ties from the masts are connected to the ground to support the structure. With the expansion of the South Stand in 2015 to accommodate a third tier of seating, the original south end roof was dismantled; but with the southern masts and corner ties remaining, so as to continue to tie the catenary cable which now runs below the new roof. The new higher South Stand roof is a separate structure, with its own set of braced masts and cables; and it is expected that a counterpart arrangement will be adopted for the proposed North Stand expansion.\n\nCables are attached to the twelve masts circling the stadium with rafters and purlins for additional rigid support. The cigar-shaped masts double as visual features, with the highest at . Access to the upper tiers of seats is provided by eight circular ramps with conical roofs resembling turrets above which eight of the twelve masts rise up providing the support structure for the roof.\n\nThe roof of the south, east and west stands built for the athletics stadium configuration was supported by the cable net system. The temporary open stand at the north end was built around the masts and tie down cables that would ultimately support the roof of the North Stand. After the games the track and field were excavated. The temporary bleachers at the north end were removed and the North Stand and lower tier of seats constructed on the prepared excavation. The North Stand roof was completed by adding rafters, purlins and cladding.\n\nThe stadium has facilities for players and match officials in a basement area below the west stand, which also contains a kitchen providing meals for up to 6,000 people on match days, press rooms, ground staff storage, and a prison cell. The stadium also has conference facilities and is licensed for marriage ceremonies. Fitting out of the hospitality suites, kitchens, offices, and concourse concessions was accomplished by KSS Architects, and included the installation of the communications cabling and automatic access control system.\n\nThe stadium's interior comprises a continuous oval bowl, with three tiers of seating at the sides, and two tiers at each end. Entry by patrons is gained by contactless smart card rather than traditional manned turnstiles. The system can admit up to 1,200 people per minute through all entrances. A service tunnel under the stadium provides access for emergency vehicles and the visiting team's coach to enter the stadium directly. Once inside the stadium patrons have access to six themed restaurants, two of which have views of the pitch, and there are 70 executive boxes above the second tier of seating in the north, west and east stands. The stadium is equipped with stand-by generators should there be a electrical mains failure. These are capable of keeping the stadium electrics running as well as the floodlights at 800 lux, the minimum level stipulated by FIFA to continue to broadcast live football.\n\nTo create the optimum grass playing surface in the stadium bowl, the roof was designed to maximise sunlight by using a ten-metre band of translucent polycarbonate at its periphery. Additionally, each of the corners of the stadium without seating have perforated walls with moveable louvres that can be adjusted to provide ventilation of the grass and general airflow through the stadium. Drainage and under-pitch heating were installed to provide optimum growing conditions for the grass. The pitch has a UEFA standard dimension of . and is covered with natural grass reinforced by artificial fibres made by Desso. The field of play is lit by 218 2000-watt floodlights, consuming a total of 436,000 watts. The grass playing surface is recognised as being one of the best in English football, and has been nominated five times in the last nine seasons for best Premier League pitch, an accolade it won in 2010–11 among other awards.\nThe stadium was named the City of Manchester Stadium by Manchester City Council before construction began in December 1999, but has a number of commonly used alternatives. City of Manchester Stadium is abbreviated to CoMS when written and spoken. Eastlands refers to the site and the stadium before they were named SportCity and CoMS respectively, and remains in common usage for both the stadium and the whole complex, as does SportCity but with less frequency. The stadium was also officially referred to as Manchester City Stadium for the 2015 Rugby World Cup. The football club, under its new ownership, renegotiated its 250-year lease with the city council in October 2010, gaining the naming rights in return for a substantial increase in rent. The stadium was renamed the Etihad Stadium by the club in July 2011 as part of a ten-year agreement with the team kit sponsors Etihad Airways. The agreement encompasses sponsorship of the stadium's name, extends the team kit sponsorship for ten years, and includes plans to relocate the club's youth academy and training facilities to the City Football Academy on a new campus development adjacent to the stadium.\n\nDespite being a continuous oval bowl, each side of the stadium is named in the manner of a traditional football ground. All sides were initially named by compass direction (North Stand and South Stand for the ends, East Stand and West Stand for the sides). In February 2004, after a vote by fans, the West Stand was renamed the Colin Bell Stand in honour of the former player. The vote was almost cancelled (and the stand instead named after Joe Mercer) due to suspicions it had been hijacked by rival fans who wished to dub the renamed stand The Bell End. However, core supporters of the club made it clear they still wished the stand named after their hero. The East Stand is unofficially known by fans as the Kippax as a tribute to the very vocal east stand at the club's Maine Road ground.\n\nThe North Stand is the only part of the stadium built after the Commonwealth Games, during the stadium's conversion. The temporary unroofed north stand it replaced had been dubbed the New Gene Kelly Stand by supporters, a reference to the unroofed corner between the Kippax and the North Stand at the club's former Maine Road home, because, being exposed to the elements, they frequently found themselves \"singing in the rain\". Commencing season 2010–11, seating in the North Stand has been restricted to only supporters accompanied by children, resulting in this end of the ground now being commonly referred to as the Family Stand. Although the North Stand has never been officially renamed and is still frequently referenced that way, most external ticketing offices and stadium guides, in addition to the club itself, now preferentially label and refer to this section of the ground as the Family Stand when discussing seating and ticket sales. Supporters initially dubbed the South Stand the Scoreboard End (the former name of the North Stand at Maine Road), and it houses the majority of City's more vocal fans. Supporters of visiting teams are also normally allocated seats in this stand. From 2003 to 2006, it was renamed the Key 103 Stand for sponsorship reasons, though this was largely ignored by regular patrons.\n\nThe stadium is the centrepiece of SportCity, which includes several other nationally important sporting venues. Adjacent to the stadium is the Manchester Regional Arena, which served as a warm-up track during the Commonwealth Games and is now a 6,178-capacity venue that hosts national athletics trials, but has previously also hosted the home games of both the Manchester City women's team and the club's under-21 reserve team. The Regional Arena has regularly hosted the AAA Championships and Paralympic World Cup, and is currently the home ground of amateur rugby league side Manchester Rangers.\n\nThe National Squash Centre and the National Cycling Centre, which includes both the Manchester Velodrome and the National Indoor BMX Arena, are all a short distance from the stadium. The Squash Centre, which has hosted the British National Squash Championships since 2003 was added to the SportCity complex for the Commonwealth Games along with CoMS. The Velodrome, another showpiece venue used to stage all the track cycling events for the Games, was already in place and had been home to British Cycling, the governing body for cycling in Britain, since it was built in 1994, as part of Manchester’s unsuccessful 2000 Olympics bid. Prior to the completion of the Lee Valley VeloPark for the 2012 Summer Olympics, the Velodrome had been the only indoor Olympic-standard track in the United Kingdom. The collocated BMX Arena houses the United Kingdom’s only permanent indoor BMX track and provides seating for up two thousand spectators. It was added to the National Cycling Centre at SportCity in 2011.\n\nOther major sporting and sport-related venues located in SportCity in the immediate vicinity of the Etihad Stadium, all legacies of the 2002 Commonwealth Games are the English Institute of Sport, west of the stadium, adjacent to the southwest corner of the Regional Arena; the Manchester Regional Tennis Centre, adjacent to the north end of the stadium; and the Manchester Tennis & Football Centre, also adjacent to the stadium, which is operated and administered by the Manchester Sport and Leisure Trust.\n\nBetween 11 March (Commonwealth Day) and 10 August 2002, as part of the preparations for the upcoming Commonwealth Games and to celebrate Her Majesty the Queen's Golden Jubilee, a national Spirit of Friendship Festival was organised. On 9 July, a few weeks before the Games began, a sculpture outside the new national headquarters of the English Institute of Sport at SportCity was unveiled by the middle-distance runner Steve Cram. This sculpture, commissioned in late 2001, was created in a little over eight weeks by Altrincham-based artist, Colin Spofforth, who had submitted to Manchester City Council his idea for a heroic-sized sculpture of a sprinter as a means of celebrating the beauty, power and determination of the competing athletes. Reaching thirty feet high, weighing seven tonnes, and titled \"The Runner\", this unique larger-than-life bronze statue of a male sprinter surmounting a bronze globe was, at the time, the United Kingdom's largest sporting sculpture. It depicts the very moment the runner leaves the blocks once the starter's gun has fired.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2009 a Thomas Heatherwick sculpture, \"B of the Bang\", was situated to the southeast of the stadium at the junction of Ashton New Road and Alan Turing Way. Built after the Commonwealth Games to commemorate them, it was the tallest sculpture in the United Kingdom. However, numerous structural problems led to the 184 ft. sculpture being dismantled in 2009 for safety reasons. In 2014, money recovered by the Manchester City Council as a result of lengthy legal battles consequent to this debacle was used to fund a new £341,000 public sculpture a few hundred yards further south.\nThe first public football match at the stadium was a friendly between Manchester City and Barcelona on 10 August 2003. Manchester City won the game 2–1, with Nicolas Anelka scoring the first ever goal in the stadium.\n\nThe first competitive match followed four days later, a UEFA Cup match between Manchester City and Welsh Premier League side The New Saints, which City won 5–0 with Trevor Sinclair scoring the first competitive goal in the stadium. Having started the Premier League season with an away match, Manchester City's first home league fixture in the new stadium was on 23 August, a game drawn 1–1 with Portsmouth, with Pompey's Yakubu scoring the first league goal in the stadium.\n\n2011–12 saw the Etihad Stadium play host to the setting of a number of new club and Premier League footballing records, such as the club becoming the first ever team to win eleven of its opening twelve games in a Premier League season, and going on to remain unbeaten at the Etihad Stadium in all nineteen of the Premier League games played there. The club's record of 55 home points out of a possible 57 at the stadium is a joint best Premier League record, and the club's record of twenty consecutive home wins at the stadium (going back to the end of the previous season) also set a new Premier League record in March 2012.\n\nThe record football attendance at the stadium not involving its host team Manchester City is 43,878, which was set at the 2008 UEFA Cup Final game between Zenit Saint Petersburg and Rangers on 14 May 2008. As is customary for such games, the then 47,715 maximum physical capacity of the stadium had been reduced by UEFA to around 44,000 for this final. However, neither limit would have been able to accommodate the vast number of supporters of the Scottish club, estimated to be in excess of 130,000, that travelled down from Glasgow to Manchester on the day of the game, despite the club's official ticket allocation being just 13,000 and police requests for fans without tickets to stay home. This order of magnitude mismatch between the numbers of traveling fans and those holding tickets ultimately led to a serious public disorder incident in the centre of the city now inextricably associated with this final, despite the fact that the 44,000 or so crowd who watched the game inside the stadium were perfectly well-behaved.\nThe 2002 Commonwealth Games were deemed a success and the stadium gained critical acclaim for its atmosphere and architectural design. It has won a number of design awards, including the 2004 Royal Institute of British Architects Inclusive Design Award for inclusive building design, the 2003 Institution of Structural Engineers Structural Special Award, and in 2002 a BCI Major Project high commendation was awarded by the British Construction Industry. In July 2014, the stadium was declared one of the United Kingdom's five most iconic structures by the Construction Industry Training Board.\n\nIn 2003, initial reception by Manchester City supporters was polarised, with some lukewarm about moving from Maine Road which had a reputation for being one of English football's most atmospheric grounds, whilst others were enthusiastic about the bigger stadium and move back to East Manchester where the club was formed. Since 2010, the club has boasted more than 36,000 season ticket holders each season, which is more than the 35,150 maximum capacity of Maine Road just before the club moved homes.\n\nA 2007 Premier League survey found that fans thought sight lines at the stadium were the second best in the Premier League after the Emirates Stadium.\nOpposition fans have generally given positive feedback, with CoMS coming second to Old Trafford in a 2005 poll to find the United Kingdom's favourite football ground.\nIn 2010, the City of Manchester Stadium was the third most visited stadium after Old Trafford and Anfield by overseas visitors.\n\nIn the early years of Manchester City's tenure, the stadium suffered from a poor atmosphere, a common problem with modern stadia when compared with traditional football grounds such as Maine Road. In the 2007 Premier League survey, Manchester City supporters rated the atmosphere as second worst in the league, but the atmosphere has since significantly improved and continues to do so.\n\nIn October 2014, the club received two national VisitFootball awards for the quality of its customer care of Premier League fans visiting the Etihad Stadium during the previous season. VisitFootball, a joint venture between the Premier League and the national tourism board's VisitEngland, has been assessing the care that patrons receive at football grounds since August 2010, and presents annual awards for those clubs who deliver outstanding customer service. Manchester City had been one of the first four clubs to receive an inaugural VisitFootball award in 2011, but in 2014 it was the recipient of both the Club of the Year and Warmest Welcome awards. According to the panel of experts from the football and customer service industries that assess the services and facilities provided at each of the twenty Premier League club stadia, \"Manchester City are the gold standard in providing fans with the best matchday experience.\"\n\nIn July 2011, CoMS was renamed the Etihad Stadium, sponsored by Etihad Airways who fought off competition from Ferrostaal and Aabar to gain the stadium naming rights. The lucrative ten-year sponsorship deal included not just the naming rights to the stadium itself but to the whole £200 million complex of football-related facilities into which it was soon to be incorporated. In mid-September 2011, development plans were duly announced for a new state-of-the-art youth academy and training facility, now known as the City Football Academy (CFA) to be built on derelict land adjacent to the stadium and which would include a 7,000 capacity mini-stadium plus fifteen additional outdoor football pitches, six swimming pools and three gyms. The planned CFA facility was not only to become the new home base of the Manchester City first team squad, reserve (under-21 youth) team squad, and all of the Academy younger age group squads, but also the new home of the prior loosely affiliated Manchester City Ladies team (which was re-branded in 2012 as Manchester City Women's F.C. and more formally merged into the Manchester City family of affiliated football teams). Also fully integrated into the new CFA facility would be the parent club's world headquarters.\n\nAt the beginning of March 2014, the structural framework for a new pedestrian walkway/footbridge over the junction of Alan Turing Way and Ashton New Road connecting the CFA with the Etihad Stadium was lowered into place. With sponsor Suisse Power & Gas SA having subsequently secured the naming rights, the completed SuisseGas Bridge was officially opened and turned over to Manchester City Council for general public access on 26 November 2014. Twelve days later, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, presided over the official opening of the CFA.\n\nAs part of Manchester City's commitment to community outreach in their redevelopment plans for the areas of East Manchester adjacent to the Etihad Stadium, other urban regeneration plans incorporated into the overall Etihad Campus development project include the new £43 million Beswick Community Hub, that includes Connell Sixth Form College; a community leisure centre (with swimming pool, dance studio, health and fitness gym, rugby pitch, and grass sports pitches); and a planned Manchester Institute of Health and Performance. On 26 November 2014, the same day the SuisseGas Bridge was officially opened, a \"globally admired\" grouping of stainless steel sculptures, consisting of three towering metallic chess pieces called \"Dad's Halo Effect\" by its internationally acclaimed creator, Ryan Gander – was likewise unveiled to the public. Commissioned by the Manchester City Council to represent both the past industrial and current sporting heritage of this area of east Manchester, the public artwork is located in front of the Connell Sixth Form College, close to the central circus of the Beswick Community Hub and only a few hundred yards south from where the area's last public sculpture, \"B of the Bang\", had been situated.\n\nThe stadium is 2.5 km east of Manchester city centre. Manchester Piccadilly railway station, which serves mainline trains. It is a twenty-minute walk away along a well-lit signposted route that is supervised by stewards close to the ground. Piccadilly station also has a Metrolink tram stop (in the undercroft); from which regular trams along the East Manchester Line to Ashton-under-Lyne serve the stadium and Etihad Campus, with enhanced service frequencies and doubled tram units on matchdays. The Etihad Campus tram stop close to Joe Mercer Way to the immediate north of the stadium opened in February 2013, and handles several thousand travellers each matchday; spectators travelling by tram from Manchester city centre being able to board services at Piccadilly Gardens, the journey taking approximately 10 minutes. The Velopark tram stop also opened in February 2013 and provides access to the southeastern approach to the stadium, as well as closer access to other areas of SportCity such as the Manchester Velodrome and the City Football Academy.\n\nThere are many bus routes from the city centre and all other directions which stop at, or close to, SportCity. On match and event days special bus services from the city centre serve the stadium.\nThe site has 2,000 parking spaces, with another 8,000 spaces in the surrounding area provided by local businesses and schools.\n\nUnder the terms of its lease, the stadium is able to host non-football events such as concerts, boxing and rugby fixtures at Manchester City's prerogative. Manchester City applied for a permanent entertainment licence in 2012 in a bid to expand the number of non-footballing events at the stadium.\n\nOutside the football season the stadium hosts annual summer concerts, and is one of the United Kingdom's largest music venues, having a maximum capacity of 60,000 for performances. It was the largest stadium concert venue in England before the new Wembley Stadium was built.\n\nThe first concert was a performance by the Red Hot Chili Peppers supported by James Brown in 2004. An Oasis concert at the ground was featured on the DVD, \"Lord Don't Slow Me Down\" and the band's concert in 2005 set the attendance record of 60,000. Take That released a DVD of their 2006 performance at the stadium, \"\". Other artists who have played the stadium are U2, Beyoncé, Jay-Z, George Michael, Rod Stewart, Foo Fighters, Pet Shop Boys, Manic Street Preachers, Bastille, Dizzee Rascal, The Futureheads, the Sugababes, Taylor Swift, Sophie Ellis-Bextor, Coldplay, Bruce Springsteen, Muse, Bon Jovi (three times), Robbie Williams, One Direction, and The Stone Roses.\n\nConcerts and boxing matches eventually took their toll on the pitch. In 2008, late post-concert pitch renovation, combined with an early start to the football season, led to the pitch not being ready for the first home fixture, causing the club to play its UEFA Cup first round qualifying match at Barnsley's Oakwell Stadium and a moratorium to be imposed on the staging of non-football events at Eastlands. In May 2010, the club invested in a new pitch and summer concerts resumed in 2011 when Take That played eight nights, with ticket sales totalling approximately 400,000.\n\nCoMS is rated a category 4 stadium by UEFA and has hosted several major football matches in addition to Manchester City's home fixtures. It became the fiftieth stadium to host an England international football match when the English and Japanese national teams played on 1 June 2004. In June 2005, the stadium hosted England's opening game in the UEFA Women's Championship, setting an attendance record of 29,092 for the competition. The stadium also hosted the 2008 UEFA Cup Final, in which Zenit Saint Petersburg defeated Rangers 2–0.\n\nIn May 2011, the stadium hosted the Conference National play-off final between AFC Wimbledon and Luton Town; Wimbledon gained promotion to the Football League after beating Luton in a penalty shoot-out. The stadium was used for the play-offs because the 2011 UEFA Champions League Final was due to take place at Wembley on 28 May 2011 and UEFA regulations stipulate the stadium hosting the Champions League final must not be used for other matches during the previous two weeks.\n\nIn October 2004, the stadium played host to a rugby league international match between Great Britain and Australia in the Tri-Nations series in front of nearly 40,000 spectators.\nThe stadium more recently hosted the Magic Weekend for three consecutive seasons (2012–2014). This is a rugby league competition in which all 14 members of the Super League competition play each other over a full weekend. After a record attendance in 2012 – both for a single day (32,953) and the aggregate for the whole weekend (63,716) – the Etihad Stadium became the venue of choice for this annual rugby league event, setting another attendance record (36,339 / 64,552) for it in May 2014. However, the current construction work involved with the expansion of the South Stand caused this competition to be relocated to St. James' Park for the summer of 2015, but it is expected to return to the Etihad again once the expansion work is complete.\n\nOn 24 May 2008, Stockport born and twice IBF and IBO light welterweight champion boxer Ricky Hatton defeated Juan Lazcano in a contest billed as \"Hatton's Homecoming\". The fight was held in front of 56,337 fans, setting a record attendance for a British boxing event post World War II.\n\nOn 10 October 2015 it hosted a 2015 Rugby World Cup Pool A match between hosts nation England and Uruguay. England won 60–3 with 50,778 in attendance.\n\n\nSpecific\nBibliography\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "20279399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20279399", "title": "Ciudad del Motor de Aragón", "text": "Ciudad del Motor de Aragón\n\nThe Ciudad del Motor de Aragón, also known as Motorland Aragón, is a motorsport race track located in Alcañiz, Spain.\n\nThe circuit has been designed by well-known German architect Hermann Tilke in conjunction with the British architectural firm Foster + Partners. Formula One driver and Ferrari test driver Pedro de la Rosa was a technical and sporting consultant on the project.\n\nThe facility has been designed to incorporate three main zones – a technology park, a sports area and a leisure and culture area. The technology park will feature research and educational institutes related to the motor industry, the sports area will include the racing circuit (with multiple layouts), a karting track and various gravel circuits, whilst the leisure and culture section will feature a hotel, business centre and shopping facilities.\nIt was announced on 26 May 2008 that the circuit will host a round of the World Series by Renault in 2009, the first international championship to race at the venue. The event has returned to Aragón every year since, until the end of the championship in 2015. Renault Sport Technologies had access to the circuit for thirty days per year for testing and promotional events. When the World Series by Renault championship was discontinued at the end of 2015 and was relaunched in 2016 as Formula V8 3.5, the circuit continued to be part of the schedule. The race remained on the championship for the 2017 season, at the end of which the championship was discontinued.\n\nOn 18 March 2010, Motorland Aragón was announced as a replacement for the Balatonring on the 2010 MotoGP calendar. Aragón was already in place as a reserve event and replaces the Hungarian race which was postponed because of overrunning construction work. This made the Aragon motorcycle Grand Prix the fourth Spanish race on the calendar. In March 2011 Dorna Sports signed a contract with the circuit to make it a permanent entry on the main calendar until at least 2016. On 19 May 2010, it was announced that the circuit will hold a round of the Superbike World Championship from 2011, with a three-year deal being agreed.\n\nThe circuit was used as part of stage seven of the 2012 Vuelta a España.\n\n"}
{"id": "25157716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25157716", "title": "Cuba at the Pan American Games", "text": "Cuba at the Pan American Games\n\nCuba at the Pan American Games.\n"}
{"id": "6160702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6160702", "title": "Estadio Carlos Iturralde", "text": "Estadio Carlos Iturralde\n\nThe Estadio Carlos Iturralde is a multi-use stadium in the Mexican city of Mérida, Yucatán. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Venados F.C. The stadium holds 15,087 people.\n\nThe stadium received the name in honor of the only Yucatecan football player to have played in the Mexico national football team. The first goal scored in the history of the stadium was from the Yucatecan \"Alonso Diego Molina\", a former player of the school Modelo.\n\nThere are plans to construct a new stadium in Ucú, a suburb of Mérida. The new stadium, which is scheduled to begin construction in January 2009 and planned for completion in 2011, will hold 28,500 people.\n"}
{"id": "679306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679306", "title": "Estádio da Luz", "text": "Estádio da Luz\n\nThe Estádio da Luz (), officially named Estádio do Sport Lisboa e Benfica, is a multi-purpose stadium located in Lisbon, Portugal. It is used mostly for association football matches, hosting the home games of Portuguese club S.L. Benfica. It is owned by the club's SAD.\n\nOpened on 25 October 2003 with an exhibition match between Benfica and Uruguayan club Nacional, it replaced the original Estádio da Luz, which had 120,000 seats. The seating capacity was decreased to 65,647 and is currently set at 64,642. The stadium was designed by HOK Sport Venue Event and had a construction cost of €162 million.\n\nA UEFA category four stadium and one of the biggest stadiums by capacity in Europe (the biggest of Portugal), the Estádio da Luz hosted several matches of the UEFA Euro 2004, including its final, and the 2014 UEFA Champions League Final. Moreover, it was the venue for the New7Wonders of the World announcement ceremony in 2007. In 2014, it was elected as the most beautiful stadium of Europe in an online poll by \"L'Équipe\".\n\nThe previous stadium, which was also officially named \"Estádio do Sport Lisboa e Benfica\", was named in honour of Igreja de Nossa Senhora da Luz (Church of Our Lady of the Light), and the people of Lisbon used to call it \"a Luz\" (\"the Light\"). Therefore, the stadium's common name became \"Estádio da Luz\", which is usually anglicised to \"Stadium of Light\". This translation, however, is inaccurate because \"Luz\" refers not to \"light\" but to the original address of the stadium: \"Estrada da Luz\". Moreover, like its predecessor, the current stadium is also referred to as (the Cathedral) or as .\n\nArchitect Damon Lavelle, from HOK Sport Venue Event (now Populous), designed the stadium to focus on light and transparency. Its polycarbonate roof allows the sunlight to penetrate the stadium in order to illuminate it. The roof, which is supported by tie-beams of four steel arches, seems to float on the underlying tribunes. The arches are 43 metres high and help define the look of the stadium, after having been shaped to be similar to the wavy profile of its three tiers.\n\nIn the opening match, Benfica beat Uruguayan side Nacional 2–1 with goals from Nuno Gomes, who became the first scorer in the history of Estádio da Luz.\n\nUEFA Euro 2004 - Quarter-finals\n\nIn the first quarter-final ever between England and Portugal, the English side opened the scoring after only two minutes through Michael Owen. Portugal's constant attacking pressure from then on resulted in Hélder Postiga's 83rd-minute equaliser. A controversial incident came in the dying minutes when Michael Owen hit the Portuguese crossbar, resulting in a Sol Campbell header, which appeared to have given England the lead again, but the header was ruled out for what referee Urs Meier deemed a foul on the Portuguese goalkeeper Ricardo. The sides exchanged goals in extra-time, sending the match to penalty kicks, which Portugal eventually won 6–5. Ricardo saved the penalty from Darius Vassell and then scored the winning goal.\n\nUEFA Euro 2004 - Final\n\nThe following national team matches were held in the stadium.\n\n\nAs of its 15th birthday, the Estádio da Luz has welcomed more than 17 million spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "1848769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848769", "title": "Flatland BMX", "text": "Flatland BMX\n\nFlatland is a freestyle BMX riding style performed on smooth flat surfaces that do not include any ramps, jumps, or grindrails. It is sometimes described as a form of artistic cycling with a blend of breakdancing. \n\nFlatland occupies a position somewhat removed from the rest of freestyle BMX. They are often very dedicated, and will spend several hours a day perfecting their techniques.\nFlatland also differs from the others in that the terrain used is nothing but a smooth, flat surface. Tricks are performed by spinning and balancing on the bike in a variety of unexpected positions. Riders almost always use either knurled/grip taped aluminum or plastic pegs to stand on to manipulate the bike into even more imaginative positions.\n\nFlatland bikes typically have a shorter wheelbase than other freestyle bikes. This shorter wheelbase requires less effort to make the bike spin or to position the bike on one wheel. One of the primary reasons flatlanders often ride only flatland is the decreased stability of using their shorter bikes on ramps, dirt and street.\nA variety of options is commonly found on flatland bikes. The most unifying feature of flatland bikes is the use of four pegs, one on the end of each wheel axle. Flatlanders will choose to run a front brake (or a dual front brake; one front brake with two brake levers using one brake cable), front and rear brakes, or no brakes at all, depending on stylistic preference.\n\nAlthough the flatland bicycle is similar to most other BMX bicycles, flatland is often performed with specially designed frames with geometry (head tube angle, top tube length, etc.) suited to the needs of flatlanders. Front and rear bolt-on pegs, a hollow compression bolt on the forks for the front brake cable, and a rear brake cable detangler or \"Gyro\" to allow the bars to rotate endlessly without tangling the brake cables. Also invented specifically for flatland riding is the rear hub mechanism known as a freecoaster, which allows the rear wheel to roll backwards without engaging the hub and making the cranks rotate backwards as they would on a normal freewheel or cassette style hub. Other technical bicycle setup specifics can include zero offset forks, narrow handlebars, very high pressure tires (100psi and higher), and a very small front sprocket (18-28 teeth).\nIn competition, talent and skill are judged by the ability to maintain coordination, and balance while performing a variety of difficult and elegant moves. There are usually several categories for judging purposes which can include: \n\nFlatland is an involving, time-consuming discipline in which the rider learns different balance/counterbalance points and center-of-gravity in motion techniques through repetition and trial-and-error. Some tricks can be learned in hours, while others may take years to master.\n\nVarious riders emphasize different aspects of the discipline: the artistic nature of flatland and the originality of tricks, the number and difficulty of tricks, or the simple enjoyment of the activity. Only contest riders need to be concerned with the competitive side of the discipline, as there are many riders who prefer doing shows, taking parts in videos, or simply riding with their friends and enjoying themselves.\n\nRiders usually pedal a few times for speed, and then perform various stunts often involving difficult and/or awkward stances on pegs, mounted to the axles of their front or back wheels. Pegs are aluminum or plastic tubes, which are bolted onto both sides of the front and back axles. When flatland riding first began, most riders would do one trick and then return to the pedals. However, by combining different body and bicycle positions into \"combos\" and \"linking\" them together, riders began to do several tricks in a row without stopping between each move. Flatland riding is now usually a combination of many different kinds of moves, often linked together non-stop as the rider goes through as many as 10-12 consecutive moves, and position/direction changes, before returning to the pedals.\n\nFlatland originated from three pioneers; R. L. Osborn, Bob Haro, and Bob Morales. R. L. Osborn was a fan favorite in the mid 80s, being the highest paid BMX flatland professional ever after signing a contract with General Bicycles for around US$100,000. Bob Haro went on to become founder of Haro Bicycles. Bob Morales was the founder of the once elite American Freestyle Association. The AFA was the dominating league for both professional and amateur flatland and quarter pipe events. While there were several amateur AFA events the Masters series contest, held throughout the US was the biggest pro/am flatland/quarter pipe event of the time.\nFlatland's roots can be dated back to the 1950s. Flatland has gone through many stylistic changes since its beginnings in the late 1970s. Riders once wore full protective gear and full face helmets, starred in feature-length films such as Rad (film), and performed in large-scale events such as NBA halftimes. Following the decline in popularity and subsequent recession in most action sports at the end of the 80s, flatland went \"underground\". It resurfaced in the late 90s with the return of media attention in the form of events such as the X Games. Flatland was dropped from the X Games and other large-scale events in the early 2000s, forcing the sport/artform to become more independently run and owned. Most flatland companies and events now exist outside of other BMX circles, although there is still, somewhat limited, coverage in mainstream BMX magazines and videos. \nWith the removal of flatland from events such as the XGames, many independent event organizers have stepped up and taken flatland to the masses through creative, independently organized events such as the Red Bull Circle Balance, Circle Cow, and BMX Masters events in Europe, the Elevation Flatland series and Voodoo Jams in the US, and smaller \"jams\" such as the Athens Jam and Hollywood Jams which take place in the US. These independent events and jams are what has helped keep flatland \"alive\" and thriving over the years.\n\nFlatland tricks are given names, usually by the first person to invent it. For example, the first flatland \"bunnyhop tailwhip\" was first landed in a Burger King parking lot by Bill Nitschke, and there named a \"whopper\". Terry Adams invented a trick following Hurricane Katrina (since Terry lives in Louisiana), and named his new trick \"The Katrina\".\n\nThe name may be modified (referencing whether it is rolled, scuffed, g-turned, stationary, etc.) or included in a list of other tricks, with \"links\" such as \"bar-flip into\" or \"jump to\", to indicate a combination, often shortened to \"combo.\"\n\nThese names generally apply to popular positions, or combinations of tricks:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27210440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27210440", "title": "Guoxin Gymnasium", "text": "Guoxin Gymnasium\n\nQingdao Guoxin Sports Centre Gymnasium (official name) is an indoor sporting arena located in Qingdao, China, used mostly for basketball and arena football games. The capacity of the arena is 12,500 spectators. It hosts indoor sporting events such as like badminton, basketball, concerts, gymnastics, table tennis and volleyball.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6357865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6357865", "title": "HC Litvínov", "text": "HC Litvínov\n\nHC Litvinov, called HC VERVA Litvínov for sponsorship reasons is an ice hockey team in the Czech Extraliga. Their home arena is Ivan Hlinka Stadion in Litvínov.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24881771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24881771", "title": "Halmstad Arena", "text": "Halmstad Arena\n\nHalmstad Arena is a sports area in Halmstad, Sweden. Halmstad Arena is mainly used for sport activities but can also be used for concerts and fairs.\n\nConstruction began on 15 November 2007 and the arena was officially opened on 20 February 2010.\n\nHalmstad Arena includes four full size sport halls, five smaller special halls, two full size ice rinks and one smaller rink, waterpark/indoor swimming pool, twelve full size soccer fields, two full size soccer fields with artificial playing surface, five smaller soccer fields and an outdoor facility for track & field and soccer practice. \n"}
{"id": "22146558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22146558", "title": "Harris Cup", "text": "Harris Cup\n\nThe Harris Cup is an ice hockey championship trophy, awarded annually to the NCAA Division III Northern Collegiate Hockey Association (NCHA) league playoff champion.\n\nThe trophy originated with the Midwest Collegiate Hockey Association. The MCHA first awarded a championship trophy in 1998. The trophy was renamed the Harris Cup in 2002 and first awarded under that name in 2003. All previous winners of the MCHA trophy are inscribed on the trophy and recognized as Harris Cup awardees. The trophy is named after Dan Harris, who served as MCHA league president through 2002 and is the long-serving athletics director for Milwaukee School of Engineering. Following the MCHA and NCHA's merger in 2013, the trophy will be awarded to the NCHA's playoff champion beginning in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "3660252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3660252", "title": "Homer Stryker Field", "text": "Homer Stryker Field\n\nHomer Stryker Field is a stadium in Kalamazoo, Michigan. The baseball field is located in Kalamazoo's Mayors Riverfront Park. It is primarily used for baseball, and is the home field for the Kalamazoo Growlers of the collegiate summer baseball Northwoods League. It used to be the home field of the Kalamazoo Kings minor league baseball team in the Frontier League. It opened in 1963, and holds 4,000 people.\n\nHomer Stryker Field became the home of the Kalamazoo Kings in 2001. It had hosted the Kodiaks, another Frontier League team; each team has made some renovations to a facility that has been in use in some form since 1925, although the oldest part of the current structure, a concrete grandstand now with aluminum benches, appears to date to 1963.\n\nThe 1995 renovation added new aluminum seating and a press box above the old grandstand, along with some additional bleacher sections flanking the central stand. Some new outbuildings have been constructed in the last few years.\nThe field is somewhat unorthodox in that home plate is at the northeast corner of the grounds; traditionally and commonly, baseball fields have home plate at the westernmost end of the grounds so batters do not have to face the sun while hitting.\n\nHomer Stryker was the patriarch of the Stryker Corporation. The Stryker family bought the naming rights in 2002 and placed Homer’s name on the field.\n\nLeft Field Foul Line: 290 feet\n\nCenter Field: 400 feet\n\nRight Field Foul Line: 330 feet\n"}
{"id": "5188830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5188830", "title": "Inner tube water polo", "text": "Inner tube water polo\n\nInner tube water polo (ITWP) is a variation of the sport water polo with the important difference that players, excluding the goalkeeper, are required to float in inflatable inner tubes. By floating in an inner tube, players experience less contact and expend less energy than traditional water polo players, not having to tread water. This allows casual players to enjoy water polo without undertaking the intense conditioning required for conventional water polo.\n\nThis sport is predominantly played at universities by intramural coed teams, but can also be found in recreational adult leagues. The sport's rules resemble those of water polo, however, with no governing body the rules vary across different leagues. For example, while the winner is determined by the team which scores the most goals, some leagues award one point for a male goal, and two points for a female goal, while others award one for either.\n\nThe game was invented in 1969 by now retired UC Davis associate athletic director of intramural sports and sport clubs, Gary Colberg. Noticing how much fun the water polo team was having, Mr. Colberg thought up the idea of using tubes so that people with no experience in water polo could still enjoy the game.\n\nThere is no governing body or official rules, but the following details have been derived from a combination of innertubewaterpolo.com and the NYC Social Sports Club’s rules and instructions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMost leagues have their own rules governing misconduct, flagrant fouls, and other more egregious penalties.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53756285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53756285", "title": "JetLev", "text": "JetLev\n\nThe JetLev Flyer is a water-propelled jet pack powered through a floater derived from jetski technology attached through an umbilical to the backpack which contains two nozzles and two control arms, in a configuration like traditional rocket belts and gas turbine jet belts. The JetLev also functions underwater, allowing users to dive into the water and jet back out. The jetpack can allow users to fly up to above the water. It was created by Canadian engineer Raymond Li. JetLev became the first practical amateur-usable jet pack, and first with practical usable duration. The JetLev technology jetpack became the first commercially released jetpack in 2009. It was initially offered for sale for $100,000 USD, however with much cheaper competitors coming on the market afterwards, inspired by the original JetLev, such as the Flyboard, prices rapidly dropped, with cheaper models.\n\nRaymond Li started working on the concept in 2000. By 2003, he was seeking funding to keep developing the concept. He received a grant from the National Research Council of Canada. The prototype jetpack attached to a jetski, first flew manned in 2004. In 2005, Li moved part-time to Fort Lauderdale on a temporary work visa to continue development with assistance from jetski experts. Hydroflight patents were issued to Raymond Li in 2008, and passed to the holding company JetLev Intellectual Property. Investors started calling Li in 2008. JetLev the sued the makers of Flyboard, Jetovator, and manufacturers of other hydrojetpacks for patent infringement, starting in 2012. The intellectual property was bought by Zapata Industries, the maker of Flyboard, in 2016, consolidating the leading market hydroflight jetpacks in one company.\nHydrojetpacks have raised concerns over safety and the need for regulations, since they started coming onto the market and into resorts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8741545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8741545", "title": "KF Besa Pejë", "text": "KF Besa Pejë\n\nKF Besa Pejë (Klubi Futbollistik Besa Pejë) commonly known as Besa is a football club based in Peć, Kosovo. Their home ground is Shahin Haxhiislami and they compete in the Football Superleague of Kosovo.\n\nThe current club is considered to be the successor of a number of different football and sports clubs that had been active in the city of Peć since 1923, with the first being Behari i Ri who were the original club that today's KF Besa Pejë is based on. In 1924 another club named Gajret Pejë was formed, but ended disbanded soon after. Other clubs that were also formed in Peć at the time were Zeleni Venac in 1925, Tarabosh in 1927, Dukagjini Pejë in 1928, Radnički Peć in 1930, Budućnost Peć in 1935 and Ardhmëria Pejë who were active between 1941 and 1945. Between 1923 and World War II, the different clubs representing the city of Peć competed only in friendly tournaments as none of the clubs were members of the Belgrade Football Subassociation. A club representing the city competed in the 1942 Albanian Superliga, but the war period championships that were held in Albania are not recognised by the Albanian Football Association.\n\nFollowing the end of World War II, football in Peć and the rest of the Kosovo region became more prominent and this was in no part due to the rise in tournaments and championships that were held regularly. The most dominant club of the post war era was Yugoslav backed FK Budućnost Peć, but other clubs were also active including Përparimi Pejë, who only functioned between 1949 and 1951. Other clubs active after World War II included Kombinati i Drurit, Klubi Kristal, who were active between 1973 and 1990. Another club that was formed in the 1970s was Klubi Kombinatit Bujqësor Industrial, a club heavily involved in the agricultural business at the time. In 1974 the first club to be called Besa was formed, which is where the current name of the club comes from, which is an Albanian cultural precept meaning \"faith\" and \"to keep a promise\". Other clubs were formed to represent the different professions in the city at the time, including Klubi Fabrikës së Autopjesëve of the automobile parts factory, Klubi Kombinatit të Lëkur-Këpucëve of the leather and footwear factory and Kosovatransi Klubi Ndërrmarjes Transportuese Të Udhëtarëve of the shipyard passenger transport profession.\n\nThere was widespread ethnic tension in Yugoslavia in the 1990s. The three main clubs that were left in Peć at the time, Besa, Budućnost and Kristal, held a joint assembly early in 1991 and decided to merge the clubs in order to create what is now known as KF Besa Pejë that was to compete in the independent League of Kosovo that was organised by the Football Federation of Kosovo, which was out of the Yugoslav football league system. This parallel competitions were of poor standard and were limited to matches played in remote villages on fields rather since the stadiums were still property of the clubs which were competing in the Yugoslav leagues. Until 1996 the Kosovo Superleague was held in four different groups, who's winners would then face each other in a playoff to determine the champions, but in 1996 the original league format was restored. The 1997–98 Kosovo Superleague was interrupted due to the start of the Kosovo War while KF Besa was top of the league.\n\nThe Kosovo War devastated the country, including Peć, and sports activities were put on hold in 1999. Football, much like most things in Kosovo, had to restart once again and the development of KF Besa Pejë was slow as the club began to rebuild from 1999. The club relied on donors from the city, and the main donor of the post war period was Birra Peja and the brewery, who became the club's main financier in July 2003.\n\nKosovo Superleague\n\nKosovar Cup\n\nKosovar Supercup\n\nKosovo province league\n\n"}
{"id": "48775475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48775475", "title": "KML Most Valuable Player Award", "text": "KML Most Valuable Player Award\n\nThe KML Most Valuable Player Award () is an award for the top-tier professional basketball league in Estonia, the Korvpalli Meistriliiga (KML).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32346388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32346388", "title": "Kastles Stadium at The Wharf", "text": "Kastles Stadium at The Wharf\n\nThe Kastles Stadium at The Wharf was a tennis stadium on the Southwest Waterfront in Washington, D.C. Built in 2011, the stadium was the home venue for the Washington Kastles tennis team. The stadium was opened on June 14, 2011, with a ribbon-cutting ceremony attended by Billie Jean King, Ilana Kloss, District of Columbia mayor Vincent Gray, and others. The Kastles opened their 2011 season on July 5 at the stadium playing against the Kansas City Explorers.\n\nFollowing the Kastles' 2013 season, the stadium was closed to make way for the redevelopment of Washington's waterfront area. The Kastles moved to the Charles E. Smith Center for the 2014 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "28389300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28389300", "title": "Katsina Township Stadium", "text": "Katsina Township Stadium\n\nKatsina Township Stadium is a multi-use stadium in Katsina, Katsina State, Nigeria. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Spotlight F.C. of the Nigeria National League. The stadium has a capacity of 5,000 people.\n"}
{"id": "13007265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13007265", "title": "Kiribati national basketball team", "text": "Kiribati national basketball team\n\nThe Kiribati national basketball team are the basketball side that represent Kiribati in international competitions. They competed at the 2015 Pacific Games, where they finished with an 0-4 record.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29408279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29408279", "title": "Legends Road Course World Finals", "text": "Legends Road Course World Finals\n\nINEX Legends Road Course World Finals is an annual automobile race for Legends cars. It usually takes place in November at Sonoma Raceway, California. During 2008–09 the race was held at Las Vegas Motor Speedway road course. The World Finals will return to Sonoma for its 14th edition in 2010. In 2014 Virginia International Raceway hosted the event for the first time.\n\nDrivers are divided into three divisions; Pro, Semi-Pro and Masters. In 2009 INEX introduced a new Young Lions category for young drivers between the ages of 12 and 16.\n"}
{"id": "43944021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43944021", "title": "List of handball clubs in Austria", "text": "List of handball clubs in Austria\n\nThis is a list of association handball clubs located in Austria.\n\nPichler \nTrofaiach\nBruck\n\n"}
{"id": "17833508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17833508", "title": "Memorial Hall (Kansas City, Kansas)", "text": "Memorial Hall (Kansas City, Kansas)\n\nMemorial Hall is a multi-purpose auditorium located in Kansas City, Kansas. The 3,500-seat auditorium, which has a permanent stage, is used for public assemblies, concerts and sporting events.\n\nThe venue opened in 1925.\n\nMemorial hall is home to the 15 year WFTDA sanctioned Kansas City Roller Warriors various roller derby teams. KCRW often hosts out of town and international roller derby teams from around the country and globe. The league is made up of 100+ volunteers consisting of KC metro and surrounding residents that volunteer their time, effort and passion to making KCRW a successful organization. \n\nIt was the location of American country-music singer Patsy Cline's, Cowboy Copas' and Hawkshaw Hawkins' last public performance, during a benefit concert on March 3, 1963 two days before their death in an airplane crash in Camden, Tennessee, while en route to Nashville, Tennessee, from Kansas City.\n\nDuring the late 1960s and early 1970s, the venue hosted a number of iconic rock acts of the era, including Jefferson Airplane, Canned Heat, John Mayall and the Bluesbreakers, Iron Butterfly, Strawberry Alarm Clock, Creedence Clearwater Revival, and Janis Joplin. Led Zeppelin performed at Memorial Hall on November 5, 1969. The Grateful Dead played eight (I included 11/12/72) shows there on the following dates: 2/5/69, 11/13/72, 10/28/77, 2/9/79, 2/10/79, 12/10/79 and 12/11/79. \n\nOn September 11, 1972, Pink Floyd performed their new concept album, \"The Dark Side of the Moon\", five months before the record setting album's release. This was also Pink Floyd's first concert in the Kansas City Area. Kiss made its Kansas City metropolitan area concert debut at the venue on April 13, 1975, opening for the Dutch rock band Golden Earring. REO Speedwagon recorded parts of its first live album, \"\" (1977) at the venue on October 31, 1976, including the album's closing track \"Golden Country\". Def Leppard performed at the venue (during their second U.S. tour) in October 1981, opening for Blackfoot. In December 1983, Peter Gabriel recorded part of his live album 'Plays Live' at Memorial Hall.\n\nProfessional wrestling was a Thursday-night tradition at the venue in the 1970s, with cards often taped for the \"All-Star Wrestling\" telecast days later.\n\nKansas City native Harley Race won his first National Wrestling Alliance World Heavyweight Championship at the venue in 1973, defeating Dory Funk Jr. in a two out of three falls match.\nRic Flair won his first NWA World Heavyweight Championship at the venue in September 1981 defeating Dusty Rhodes. \nOn November 20, 2009, the venue hosted the mixed martial arts event .\n\nOn April 28, 2012, the venue hosted .\n\nOn July 28, 2012, the venue hosted .\n\nOn October 6, 2012, the venue hosted \n\nOn January 5, 2013, the venue hosted \n\nThe Kansas City, Kansas Public Schools district holds an annual convocation for staff at the venue each August. All district staff is present for this event.\n\n"}
{"id": "7697818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7697818", "title": "Mexico at the 1936 Summer Olympics", "text": "Mexico at the 1936 Summer Olympics\n\nMexico competed at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, Germany. 32 competitors, all men, took part in 15 events in 8 sports.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTwo fencers, both men, represented Mexico in 1936.\n\n\nTwo male pentathlete represented Mexico in 1936.\n\n\nFive shooters represented Mexico in 1936.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3273210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3273210", "title": "Old Stagers", "text": "Old Stagers\n\nThe Old Stagers (OS) is an amateur theatre group, founded in 1842 by Hon. Frederick Ponsonby (later Earl of Bessborough) to perform during Kent's annual Canterbury Cricket Week. Originally the Canterbury Old Stagers, it took its current name in 1851. It claims to be the oldest surviving amateur dramatic company in the world, having staged its first shows in Canterbury in 1842. It has continued to give annual performances since (with intermissions for the two World Wars). It now stages its plays at the Gulbenkian Theatre in Canterbury.\n\nThe Old Stagers has close links to Kent County Cricket Club and the I Zingari nomadic amateur cricket club. Ponsonby was also a founder of I Zingari, and later became president of Surrey County Cricket Club. One of the earliest Old Stagers was the Kent and England cricketer Alfred Mynn who first appeared in 1847 and then regularly until his death in 1861.\n\nOld Stagers Amateur Dramatic Society records, including programmes, newspaper reviews and photographs of productions from 1842-2003, are archived at Canterbury Cathedral Library as item U449.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3893587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3893587", "title": "PalaLottomatica", "text": "PalaLottomatica\n\nPalaLottomatica, formerly known as Palazzo dello Sport or PalaEUR, is a multi-purpose sports and entertainment arena in Rome, Italy. It is located in the heart of the well known modern EUR complex. The arena hosted the 1960 Olympic basketball tournaments.\n\nThe stadium features 8 meetings points, a restaurant for 300 people and a 2,700 square metre (3,229 sq. yard) outdoor terrace. It has a seating capacity of 11,200 spectators for basketball games.\n\nPalazzo dello Sport was designed by architect Marcello Piacentini in 1957 and its reinforced concrete dome was engineered by Pier Luigi Nervi and it was constructed in two years from 1958–1960 in time for the 1960 Summer Olympics. The facility was designed and built along with a smaller facility, the Palazzetto dello Sport, its dome also engineered by Nervi.\n\nFormerly known as PalaSport and informally as PalaEUR, by the name of the neighbourhood that hosts it, the 'EUR' precisely, it was renamed \"PalaLottomatica\" with the name of Lottomatica, the main sponsor that financed the modernization work from 1999 to 2003.\n\nThe stadium has been made more functional, especially in terms of acoustics, to also accommodate important musical events. Other changes were made to the original aesthetics of the stadium, particularly the night lighting of exterior glazing that now occurs at \"tabellone della tombola\", with numbers dramatically illuminated behind the glass.\n\nAfter the remodeling, it is able to accommodate up to 11,200 seated spectators. The structure is versatile and hosts sporting events (including internal competitions of, for example, Pallacanestro Virtus Roma), concerts, conferences, and theatrical events.\n\nThe PalaLottomatica Rome, together with Mediolanum Forum of Milan, is a member of the European Arenas Association (EAA).\n\nThe arena hosted the 1960 Olympic basketball tournaments, the 1991 European basketball championships and the Euroleague 1997 Final Four.\nIt is currently the home arena of the Italian professional basketball team Lottomatica Roma.\n\nIn 1997, the PalaLottomatica hosted the Euroleague Final Four (at the final Olympiakos defeat Barcelona by 73-58)\nand the final stage of the 2005 Men's European Volleyball Championship, oversubscribed in the final between Italy and Russia, Hosting one of its terraces an audience of over 14,000 spectators were disappointed that thanks to a 3–2 comeback victory in Italy, after a thrilling game that lasted over two hours.\nThe WWE ran a show on November 7, 2008 at the PalaLottomatica.\n\nThe PalaEUR was also a venue of the 1978 and 2010 FIVB Volleyball Men's World Championship as well as the 2014 FIVB Volleyball Women's World Championship. The venue was also named the host of the 2016–17 CEV Champions League Final 4 in volleyball on April 29 and 30, 2017 - which follows prior hosting rights to the 2011 event.\n\nMany artists have performed at the Palazzo dello Sport / PalaLottomatica since late 1960s and early 1970s: amongst them the Rolling Stones in 1970, the Depeche Mode several times since 1987, the Cure, Paul McCartney, Iron Maiden, Dire Straits and many others.\nIn 1975 a Lou Reed concert was cancelled because of turmoils between police and groups of people who protested against the high prices of concert tickets; because of those turmoils the Palazzo dello Sport was seriously damaged and foreigner artists refused to perform in Italy for the following 5 years until Bob Marley performed in Milan in 1980. The Spice Girls performed a show in March 1998 during their Spiceworld Tour. This arena also hosted the concert of Avril Lavigne with her The Black Star Tour on September 10, 2011.\n\nThe first artist to perform after the modernization and the renaming as PalaLottomatica was Carlos Santana in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28277596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28277596", "title": "Panama Masters", "text": "Panama Masters\n\nThe Panama Masters was a golf tournament on the Challenge Tour that was played in 2004 and 2005 at Summit Golf & Resort in Panama City, Panama.\n\n"}
{"id": "6524718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6524718", "title": "Podmoskovie Stadium", "text": "Podmoskovie Stadium\n\nPodmoskovie Stadium, situated in the suburb of Shchelkovo some 15 km from the centre of Moscow, is one of the oldest stadia in Russia. The Russian word \"Podmoskovye\" means \"Moscow Region\".\n\nBuilt in 1928, it underwent a major refurbishment in 2003 to modernise its facilities. The ground was expanded to the capacity of 5,000 and features two playing pitches, one natural and one artificial, as well as indoor arenas dedicated to futsal, athletics and fitness. As part of the preparations for the 2006 FIFA U-20 Women’s World Championship, the stadium received new seating areas, improved floodlighting and brought its VIP and press areas in line with international standards.\n"}
{"id": "49350317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49350317", "title": "R.K.V.V. Olympia", "text": "R.K.V.V. Olympia\n\nRooms Katholieke Voetbal Vereniging Olympia, known as Olympia, was a Surinamese football club based in Centrum, Paramaribo that played in the Hoofdklasse, the highest level of football in Suriname. In 1923 the club became the first official national champion of Suriname.\n\nOlympia was founded as a Roman Catholic club on 27 January 1919, two days after the inauguration of their sporting grounds, the Katholieke Sport Centrale. Situated on the Patronaatterrein, the Katholieke Sport Centrale had been established as a replacement for the Gouvernementsplein as the primary playing field for organized football matches in Paramaribo at the time.\n\nThe club were able to secure the first two official National championships of the SVB Hoofdklasse in 1923 and 1924. Many of the competing clubs at the time were under the impression that there was a religious bias at the Katholieke Sport Centrale towards the club, and that religious dogma tainted the competition. Olympia played at the top flight of the competition for the most part of the first half of the 20th Century, having seen their best period in the formative years of the sport, relegating to the lower divisions in the sixties, before folding shortly thereafter.\n\n"}
{"id": "39189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39189", "title": "Racquetball", "text": "Racquetball\n\nRacquetball is a racquet sport played with a hollow rubber ball in an indoor or outdoor court. Joseph Sobek is credited with inventing the modern sport of racquetball in 1950, adding a stringed racquet to paddleball in order to increase velocity and control. Unlike most racquet sports, such as tennis and badminton, there is no net to hit the ball over, and, unlike squash, no tin (out of bounds area at the bottom of front wall) to hit the ball above. Also, the court's walls, floor, and ceiling are legal playing surfaces, with the exception of court-specific designated hinders being out-of-bounds. \n\nRacquetball is very similar to 40×20 American handball, which is played in many countries. It is also very similar to the British sport Squash 57, which was called racketball before 2016 (see below for a comparison).\n\nJoe Sobek is credited with inventing the sport of racquetball in the Greenwich, Connecticut, YMCA, though not with naming it. A professional tennis and American handball player, Sobek sought a fast-paced sport that was easy to learn and play. He designed the first strung paddle, devised a set of rules, based on those of squash, handball, and paddleball, and named his game \"paddle rackets\".\n\nIn February 1952 Sobek founded the National Paddle Rackets Association (NPRA), codified the rules, and had them printed as a booklet. The new sport was rapidly adopted and became popular through Sobek's continual promotion of it; he was aided by the existence of some 40,000 handball courts in the country's YMCAs and Jewish Community Centers, wherein racquetball could be played.\n\nIn 1969, aided by Robert W. Kendler, the president-founder of the U.S. Handball Association (USHA), the International Racquetball Association (IRA) was founded using the name coined by Bob McInerney, a professional tennis player. That same year, the IRA assumed the national championship from the NPRA. In 1973, after a dispute with the IRA board of directors, Kendler formed two other racquetball organizations, yet the IRA remains the sport's dominant organization, recognized by the United States Olympic Committee as the American national racquetball governing body.\n\nIn 1974, the IRA organized the first professional tournament, and is a founding member of the International Racquetball Federation (IRF). Eventually, the IRA became the American Amateur Racquetball Association (AARA); in late 1995, it renamed itself as the United States Racquetball Association (USRA). In 2003, the USRA again renamed itself to USA Racquetball (USAR), to mirror other Olympic sports associations, even if Racquetball is not an Olympic sport.\n\nKendler used his publication \"ACE\" to promote both handball and racquetball. Starting in the 1970s, and aided by the fitness boom of that decade, the sport's popularity increased to an estimated 3.1 million players by 1974. Consequent to increased demand, racquetball clubs and courts were founded and built, and sporting goods manufacturers began producing racquetball-specific equipment. This growth continued until the early 1980s, and declining in the decade's latter part when racquet clubs converted to physical fitness clubs, in service to a wider clientele, adding aerobics exercise classes and physical fitness and bodybuilding machines. Since then, the number of has remained steady, an estimated 5.6 million players.\n\nIn 1976, Ian D.W. Wright created the sport of racketball based on U.S. racquetball. British racketball is played in a long by wide squash court ( shorter and wider than the U.S. racquetball court), using a smaller, less dynamic ball than the American racquetball. In racketball, the ceiling is out-of-bounds. The racketball is served after a bounce on the floor then struck into play with the racket. Scoring is like squash with point-a-rally scoring of up to 11 points. The British Racketball Association was formed on 13 February 1984, and confirmed by the English Sports Council as the sport's governing body on 30 October 1984. The first National Racketball Championship was held in London on 1 December 1984. The sport is now played in countries where squash is played, Australia, Bermuda, France, Germany, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, South Africa, Argentina, Ireland and Sweden. Currently, racketball also is played in parts of North America.\n\nIn 1988, the British Racketball Association merged with the Squash Rackets Association. England Squash & Racketball is now recognised by Sport England as the English national governing body for the sports of squash and racketball. There is now an established UK Racketball Tournament Series consisting of 8 events around the UK, which forms the basis of the national rankings along with the National Racketball championships held annually at The Edgbaston Priory Club.\n\nIn 2016, World Squash Federation announced an international 're-branding' of racketball as Squash 57, the 57 referring to the diameter of the ball, in order to emphasise both its membership of the 'squash rackets' family, and its distinctiveness from the U.S. racquetball\n\nThe International Racquetball Federation (IRF) governs the World Racquetball Championships, which were first held in 1981 in conjunction with the first World Games. The second World Championships were played in 1984, and since then have been held biennially in August. Players from the United States have won the most World Championship titles.\n\nThe IRF also runs the World Junior Racquetball Championships that occur annually in either late October, or early to mid November, as well as the annual World Senior Racquetball Championships for players who are 35 years of age or older.\n\nRacquetball has been included in the World Games on five occasions: 1981, 1989, 1993, 2009 and 2013. The sport has a high appeal in the Americas, and because of this racquetball has been included in the Pan American Games in 1995, 1999, 2003, 2011 and 2015. And will be part of the games again in Lima 2019.\nThere are three professional racquetball organizations. The International Racquetball Tour (IRT) is the men's professional organization that began in the 1980s, with the World Racquetball Tour (WRT) starting more recently. The Ladies Professional Racquetball Tour (LPRT) is the women's professional organization.\n\nThis court and equipment are required for playing racquetball:\n\nThe \"service box\" is formed by the \"short line\" (a solid red line running the court's width parallel to the front and back walls at a distance of 20 feet) and the \"service line\" (which runs parallel to the short line and is 15 feet from the front wall). Within the service box there are two sets of lines perpendicular to the short and service lines.\n\nOne set of lines is 18 inches from, and parallel to, the side walls. Along with the short line, service line, and side wall these lines define the doubles box, where the non-serving doubles partner stands during the serve; 36 inches from the side wall is another set of lines which, along with the short line and the service line, define an area that the server must not enter if he wishes to hit a drive serve between himself and the nearest side wall. The \"receiving line\" is a parallel dashed line 5 feet behind the short line.\n\nOther equipment needed:\n\n\nRacquetball differs from other racquet sports as most competitive players wear a glove on their racquet hand for the purpose of getting a better grip on the racquet (similar to golfers using a glove when driving), but gloves are optional equipment. Also, players usually wear a comfortable short sleeved shirt and shorts, as well as racquetball court shoes designed for enabling quick lateral as well as forward and backward movement.\n\nRacquetballs are manufactured in a variety of colors such as blue, green, purple, black, red, and pink, and some are for specific purposes (e.g., outdoor play and indoor play), but the differences are unlikely to matter for recreational play. Beginners are recommended to use a blue ball by Penn, Ektelon, or Wilson. The blue ball is the most commonly used and it is the most neutral ball for average speed and accuracy of contact. Green balls are similar to blue balls. In the United States the main choices of ball are blue and green for tournament play. In some cases the International Pro Racquetball Tour (IRT) will use a purple Penn HD ball as the official ball. A black ball is often used in tournaments for senior players because the ball is designed to be slower moving and allows for longer rallies. The red ball is the fastest in production, and they are known as Red Ektelon Fireballs. This ball is heavier and allows for a quicker pace. \n\nBalls do break occasionally, and will lose their bounce over time even without breaking. To keep balls around for a long time it is best to keep them in a room temperature setting and keep them out of extreme cold or heat because this will cause the balls to become less effective and lose their bounce.\n\nPlay begins with the serve. The serving player must bounce the ball on the floor once and hit it directly to the front wall, making the ball hit the floor beyond the short line; otherwise the serve counts as a fault. The ball may touch one side wall, but not two, prior to hitting the floor; hitting both side walls after the front wall (but before the floor) is a \"three wall serve,\" and a fault. Also, serving the ball into the front wall so that it rebounds to the back wall without hitting the floor first is a long serve, and a fault.\n\nOther fault serves include a ceiling serve, in which the ball touches the ceiling after the front wall, and serving before the receiving player is ready. Also, the server must wait until the ball passes the short line before stepping out of the service box, otherwise it is a fault serve.\n\nIf the server hits the ball directly to any surface other than the front wall the server immediately loses serve regardless of whether it was first or second serve.\n\nAfter the ball bounces behind the short line, or passes the receiving line, the ball is in play and the opposing player(s) may play it.\n\nUsually, the server is allowed two opportunities (called first serve and second serve) to put the ball into play (two serve rule), although elite level competitions often allow the server only one opportunity (one serve rule).\n\nAfter a successful serve, players alternate hitting the ball against the front wall. The player returning the hit may allow the ball to bounce once on the floor or hit the ball on the fly. However, once the player returning the shot has hit the ball, it must strike the front wall before striking the floor. Unlike during the serve, a ball in play may touch as many walls, including the ceiling, as necessary so long as it reaches the front wall without striking the floor.\n\nIf the server wins the rally, then the server scores one point and continues to serve. If the opposing player wins the rally, then no point is scored, but that player then takes over serving.\n\nUnder USA Racquetball rules, matches are best of three games with the first two games to 15 points and a third game to 11 points, if necessary. USA Racquetball rules do not require players to win by two, so a match score line could read 15–14, 14–15, 11–10. Racquetball Canada matches are also the best of three format, but require a winning margin of at least two points.\n\nInternational competitions run by the International Racquetball Federation are like the USA Racquetball scoring system: two games to 15 with a tie-breaker to 11, if necessary, and win by one. However, the men's and women's pro tours play matches that are the best-of-five games to 11 points, requiring a two-point margin for victory.\n\nDue to the nature of the game, players often occupy the space their opponent(s) want(s) to occupy. This may result in a player blocking his opponent's ability to play the ball. Such occurrences are termed either hinders or penalty hinders. A hinder is a replay of the current rally (the server resumes play at the first serve), while a penalty hinder results in the player who caused the avoidable obstruction to lose the rally. A type of hinder is a screen in which the player is unable to see the ball prior to it passing the opponent.\n\nThe difference between a hinder and a penalty hinder (or formerly an avoidable hinder) is that in the latter case a player has missed out on a clear opportunity to make a rally-winning shot due to the obstruction by the player's opponent, while in the former case the opportunity missed would not clearly have led to a winning shot. This difference is almost always a judgment call by the referee (if available).\n\nThere is also a \"court\" hinder in which some part of the playing field caused the ball to bounce untrue. Often this is the door frame or (recessed) handle or a flaw in the floor or walls. In this case, the rally is a re-serve.\n\nRacquetball games can be played with two, three or four players, with doubles or singles matches being most common. Two player games are called singles or \"one-up\" (one vs. one for the entire game), while four player games are doubles with two pairs playing against each other (two vs. two for the entire game). Tournament competitions have divisions for singles or doubles or both.\n\nThree-player games are most commonly called \"Cut-throat\" and sometimes \"Ironman\" (two-on-one for the entire game) where each player takes turns serving to the other two, who play as a team against the serving player. Another three-player game is \"California\", \"In-and-Out\", or \"King of the Court\" where play is 1 vs. 1 with the third player remaining in the back court out of play while the other two play a rally; the rally winner then serves to the player who was sitting out, and the rally loser stays out of play. Another three-player variation is \"Sevens\" in which one player plays against two players as a team, with the game being played to seven points; if the two player team gets to seven first, the game is over, but if the solo player gets to seven first then the game continues to 14; if the solo player again reaches 14 first, then the game continues to 21, where the game ends regardless of whether the solo player or the two player team reach 21 first.\n\nServe style varies drastically from player to player. Generally, they are divided into two types: offensive and defensive. Most players use an offensive serve for the first serve, and a defensive serve if they need to hit a second serve. Of the offensive serves, the most common is the drive. The intention with this serve is for the ball to travel low and fast towards either back corner, and to bounce twice before striking either side wall or the back wall. If the opponent is adjusting to the drive serve, the server will throw in any variety of jam serves.\n\nA \"jam serve\" is an offensive serve which attempts to catch the opponent off balance by making use of difficult angles and unfrequented play space. The most common jam serve is the Z-serve, which strikes the front wall close to a side wall. The ball bounces quickly off the side wall, then strikes the floor and then the opposite side wall about 30–35 feet back. Depending upon the spin the server gives the Z-serve, the resulting carom may prove unpredictable and difficult to return. Side spin may cause the ball to bounce parallel to the back wall.\n\nA \"pinch serve\" is similar to a drive serve; however, the ball strikes a side wall very low and close to the serving box. With the appropriate spin, the ball has little bounce, and is difficult to return. It is possible that a successful serve would strike the sidewall before the short line, and land on the floor after the short line.\n\nIf the player faults on the first serve, they will usually hit a defensive serve. Defensive serves do not usually garner aces, but they are designed to generate a weak return by the opponent, thereby setting up the server to win the point. Most defensive serves are any variety of lob serves. A plain lob serve is a ball hit with a long, high arch into either back corner. The goal is to hit the ball so that it lands as close as possible to the back wall, giving the opponent very little room to hit a solid return. A junk lob takes a shallower arch, and lands close to the side wall somewhere between the dotted line and the back wall. This lob is intended to deceive the opponent into thinking he has an easy kill. However, since the ball is in the deep zone, it will more likely set up the server for an offensive shot.\n\nStraight-in shots are usually meant to hit the front wall as low as possible. If the ball contacts the front wall so low as to bounce twice before it reaches the service line it is called a \"kill\" shot. Straight-in shots are normally attempted with the idea of hitting toward the area of the court the opponent cannot cover. Straight-in shots hit where the opponent can't return them are called down-the-line and cross court passing shots. Often kill shots are returned very close to the back wall as the ball is moving towards the front wall.\n\nPinches and splats are shots that strike the side wall before the front wall. This often makes the ball bounce twice quickly to end the rally. Pinches normally strike the side wall towards the front part of the court, often within a few inches from the front wall.\n\nThe \"splat\" shot is an elongated pinch that strikes the side wall towards the back part of the court. It often makes a distinctive splatting sound. A very disorienting shot named the \"rayjay splat\" after Ray Johnson, a Wyoming state champion, who consistently used this shot by smashing the ball into the sidewall at such an angle that it would \"Z\" into the opposite front wall, arriving with such minimum momentum that it would \"die\" at the front wall and not rebound as expected. The best defense is to listen for the splat and anticipate the ball action. The advantage to a splat shot, beyond an unpredictable angle, is that it creates a longer distance to travel forward for the opponent who is held between a tension of going forward and staying back because of velocity of passing shots.\n\nPinches are classified as frontside or reverse. A right-handed player shooting a forehand shot to the right front corner is shooting a frontside pinch. A right-handed player shooting to the left front corner is a reverse pinch. A right-handed player shoots a backhand frontside pinch to the left corner and a reverse double pinch to the right corner. Everything for a left-handed player would be the opposite.\n\nThe dink is another very effective offensive shot designed to end the point. It is a shot very low to the front wall hit very softly so as to bounce twice before the opponent can get to it. Dinks are most effective when the opponent is positioned deep in the court.\n\nAnother important shot type is the \"Z\" shot. This shot is effective at confusing and tiring out your opponent. To hit a \"Z\" shot one hits the side wall hard and up high causing the ball to hit the front then the other side wall then back to the original side wall. If done correctly, the path of the ball will be Z shaped. This shot can have confusing bounces which can frustrate opponents. If done correctly, a \"Z\" shot will apply spin to the ball as well on the final bounce, causing it to rebound perpendicular to the second wall and fall parallel to the back wall, the closer the better. This makes the \"Z\" shot very difficult to return.\n\nAn interesting and surprise attack shot is the \"CB Pinch\", named after Charlie Beram, a Colorado state champion who is credited with this unique style. The CB Pinch occurs where the player responds to a ceiling shot quickly, in front of the service line and right after the floor bounce. The shot is basically a redirected floor bounce (knee to waist high), where the ball is directed very softly but quickly to either corner from a position in front of the service line. The fact that the shot is taken right after a ceiling shot-floor bounce usually leaves the opponent in the rear of the court defenseless against the CB Pinch, when the player has suddenly rushed forward to take the shot.\n\nDefensive shots are defined as shots which are not returned low to the front wall.\n\nThe ceiling ball shot is the primary defensive shot. This is a shot that strikes the ceiling at or near the front wall. The ball will bounce once in the forecourt and should then travel in a high arc to arrive as close to, and as vertical to, the back wall as possible. Often this is aimed at the corner which would require a backhand return by the opponent. This makes it difficult for the opponent to return the ball as he cannot make a full arc of the racquet. However, if the ball comes down too long or too short of the back wall, this can allow the opponent a kill shot.\n\nAnother defensive shot is the high Z. Used when the defensive player is near the front wall, the high Z is hit ten feet high or higher into the front wall near a corner. The ball then bounces from the side wall all the way to the opposite side wall, usually traveling over the top of the opponent, hitting the opposite side wall with spin. The spin will cause the ball to leave the opposite wall almost perpendicular to it. This may confuse inexperienced opponents but importantly, if very close to and parallel to the rear wall, makes for a difficult return shot.\n\nThe \"around the world\" or \"3 wall\" defensive shot is hit like a pinch shot but high on the wall toward the ceiling. It travels around the court in a high trajectory and is an alternative to hitting a ceiling ball.\n\nTwo other defensive shots are used but are less effective. If the defensive player is in the backcourt but unable to position himself for a non-defensive shot, he may need to hit the ball off of the back wall. The ball often returns without much force and is easily returned. The round-the-world shot is hit high into the side wall first so the ball then hits the front wall and then the other side wall, effectively circling the court. It can be easily cut off and is rarely used anymore.\n\nThe primary strategy of racquetball is to command the center of the court just at or behind the dashed receiving line. This allows the player to move as quickly as possible to all areas of the court and limit open court areas which are difficult to defend. After a shot, players should return quickly to center court. The antithesis of this is to be against a wall which severely limits the player's movement and allows the opponent an open court.\n\nImportant tactics include keeping an eye on the opponent by glancing sideways to anticipate their return shot, learning the typical return shots of the opponent, and attempting to not be predictable with return shots.\n\nOther more obvious strategies are to keep the returned ball as low on the front wall as possible, keeping the ball moving fast (limiting reaction time) and to keep your opponent moving away from center court by the use of lobs, cross court shots, and dinks.\n\nOrganized competitive racquetball began in the 1970s. The best male players of that era were Charlie Brumfield and Marty Hogan, as well as Bud Muehleisen, Jerry Hilecher, Steve Keeley, Davey Bledsoe, Steve Serot, and Steve Strandemo. Hogan continued to be a dominant player into the 1980s, and was rivaled on the scene by Brett Harnett, Dave Peck, and Mike Yellen.\n\nIn the 1990s, Ruben Gonzalez, Cliff Swain and Sudsy Monchik dominated pro tournaments, and other great players like Andy Roberts, John Ellis, and Drew Kachtik were often left out of the winner's circle. In the 2000s, Kane Waselenchuk, Jack Huczek, Jason Mannino, Ben Croft, and Rocky Carson have all excelled, but Waselenchuk has been dominant the last two seasons losing only once since September 2008.\n\nThe first great woman player was Peggy Steding in the 1970s. She was succeeded by Shannon Wright, who was then rivaled by Heather McKay, a great Australian squash player who made the transition to racquetball when living in Canada. McKay then developed a great rivalry with Lynn Adams, and after McKay moved back to Australia, Adams dominated women's racquetball for the better part of the 1980s.\n\nThe 1990s belonged to Michelle Gould (née Gilman) whose drive serve was a huge weapon against her opponents. In the late 1990s and into the 2000s, Jackie Paraiso and then Cheryl Gudinas were the dominant players. Then in the mid-2000s, Christie Van Hees and Rhonda Rajsich were the dominant players, but Paola Longoria finished #1 at the end of the 2008–2009 and 2009–2010 seasons.\n\nHeld annually in October, the US Open is the most prestigious professional racquetball event. First held in 1996, the US Open was in Memphis, Tennessee until 2010, when it moved to Minneapolis, Minnesota. In men's play, Kane Waselenchuk (Canada) has won the most US Open titles with thirteen ahead of Sudsy Monchik (US) with four, while Jason Mannino (US) and Cliff Swain (US) have both won the title twice, and Rocky Carson (US) once.\n\nIn women's play, Paola Longoria (Mexico) has the most US Open titles with five, Rhonda Rajsich (US) has four, one more than Christie Van Hees (Canada) with three. Michelle Gould (US), Cheryl Gudinas (US), and Jackie Paraiso (US) have each won two US Open titles. Kerri Wachtel (US) won the title once.\n\nRacquetball is included in the Pan American Games, World Games and Central American and Caribbean Games. Also, the regional associations of the International Racquetball Federation organize their own continental championships: Asian Championships, European Championships and Pan American Championships.\n\nRacquetball is very similar to the British sport of 'racketball', which was patterned on racquetball in 1976. The main differences are that the British ball is smaller, denser, and less bouncy; the British sport's court is a squash court, which is substantially shorter and somewhat wider; and the ceiling in the British game is out of bounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7547506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7547506", "title": "S.V. Cosmos", "text": "S.V. Cosmos\n\nSport Vereniging Cosmos, known as SV Cosmos, is a Surinamese football club. They play their home games in Paramaribo at the Frank Essed Stadium.\n\nThey were relegated from the Hoofdklasse in 2006–07 and again relegated, from the Eerste Klasse, the following season. The club were formerly known as S.V. Road, before changing their name to Cosmos.\n"}
{"id": "43781436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43781436", "title": "Slovenian Women's Basketball Cup", "text": "Slovenian Women's Basketball Cup\n\nThe Slovenian Women's Basketball Cup is the national women's basketball cup of Slovenia. It was first contested in the 1991–92 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3651543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3651543", "title": "Stade Félix Houphouët-Boigny", "text": "Stade Félix Houphouët-Boigny\n\nStade Félix Houphouët-Boigny, nicknamed Le Félicia, is a multi-purpose stadium, which can host football, rugby union and athletics, in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. It is the national stadium of the Côte d'Ivoire national football team. It is named after the first president of the country, Félix Houphouët-Boigny, and is located in the commune of Le Plateau. The stadium has a capacity of 45,000. It also hosts matches of the ASEC Abidjan. It has been the site of several deadly stampedes.\n\nBuilt in 1964 to organize the \"Games of Abidjan\", the stadium was formerly known as Stade Andre Geo, and it took the name of the President Felix Houphouet-Boigny after undergoing restoration.\n\nGradually it emerged as the National Stadium, hosting the ASEC Mimosas and Ivorian Soccer Team.\n\nAlong the Stadium of Peace of Bouake, Stade Felix Houphouet-Boigny hosted Africa Cup of Nations soccer. In 2009 after a complete renovation, which included lawn seating and the treatment room, the stadium hosted the 2009 African Championship of Nations.\n\nThe stadium was renovated for the 2017 Jeux de la Francophonie.\n\nThe stadium played host to Amnesty International's Human Rights Now! Benefit Concert on October 9, 1988. The show was headlined by Sting and Peter Gabriel and also featured Bruce Springsteen & The E Street Band, Tracy Chapman and Youssou N'Dour.\n\nThe American singer Chris Brown finished his Carpe Diem Tour at this stadium on December 30, 2012.\n\nThe stadium is expected to host many matches of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. It will also be renovated for this competition by Mota-Engil.\n\nOn March 29, 2009, during the match between Ivory Coast and Malawi, the gateway to an open corner of the stadium gave way before the kick-off of the match. A stampede ensued when 19 people were killed by trampling. Over 130 were injured as well.\n\nOn January 1, 2013, following a New Year's Eve fireworks display, another stampede took place, in which sixty-one lives were claimed, with upwards of 200 injuries sustained.\n\nThe bleachers painted in national colors consist of curves, the gallery lagoon side of the podium, a gallery and a presidential box, VIP, and BVIP .\n\nThe stage contains a media room, a room control used for anti-doping, a VIP room, a treatment room, offices of arbitrators, a massage room, and four dressing rooms.\n\nThe stadium has a video board 220 volts for 35 kwh, 16.50 meters by 5.70 meters.\n\nThe lawn is of international standard and is maintained daily green and glowing.\n\n"}
{"id": "32767723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32767723", "title": "Stade Municipal de Vieux-Habitants", "text": "Stade Municipal de Vieux-Habitants\n\nStade Municipal de Vieux-Habitants is a football stadium in Vieux-Habitants, Guadeloupe. It has a capacity of 1,000 and is currently used by the Guadeloupe Division d'Honneur's reigning champions, JS Vieux-Habitants.\n"}
{"id": "373272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373272", "title": "Superior Dome", "text": "Superior Dome\n\nThe Superior Dome, which opened as the \"world’s largest wooden dome\" on September 14, 1991, is a domed stadium on the campus of Northern Michigan University in Marquette, Michigan, in the United States. It is home to the Northern Michigan Wildcat football team as well as their Marching Band, and a variety of other campus and community events.\n\nThe dome is tall, has a diameter of , covers an area of , and has a volume of 16,135,907 cubic feet. It is a geodesic dome constructed with 781 Douglas Fir beams and of fir decking. The dome is designed to support snow up to and withstand winds. It has a permanent seating capacity of 8,000, though the building can hold as many as 16,000 people. The 2010 edition of \"Guinness World Records\" listed it as the fifth-largest dome and largest wooden dome in the world.\n\nThe construction was finished in two phases. Phase I was finished in August 1991 and included the construction of the domed complex. Phase II, completed in May 1995, added locker rooms, department offices, meeting rooms, concession areas, a retail store and other building amenities. Phase I of the project cost $21.8 million and was funded entirely by the State of Michigan. Phase II was completed for $2.1 million, with $800,000 in private donations and $1.3 million in loans. Total cost for the Superior Dome stands at $23.9 million.\n\nThe Wildcat football team was the first to christen the Dome, hosting the first-ever event in the facility on September 14, 1991. Northern defeated Indianapolis, 31–20, in front of a crowd of 7,942. Later that season, a Superior Dome attendance record was set at 8,432, when Northern defeated Ferris State, 27–17, on October 5. On September 18, 2008, a new attendance record was set as 8,672 watched Northern Michigan University lose to the Michigan Tech Huskies in a televised game.\n\nThe dome features a retractable artificial turf carpet, the largest of its kind in the world. When extended, the turf can accommodate football, soccer, and field hockey. Underneath the carpet is a synthetic playing surface that features three basketball/volleyball courts, two tennis courts and a track. The carpet is winched in and out of place on a cushion of air. Retracting the turf carpet takes 30 minutes, with full setup taking approximately two hours.\n\nThe Superior Dome is also host to a number of campus and community events, including Michigan High School Athletic Association football regular season and playoff games, trade shows (approximately of space), conventions, conferences, banquets, high school track meets, the Upper Peninsula \"Band Day\" competition/exhibition, Special Olympics, and NMU’s commencement exercises, to name a few.\n\nPresident George W. Bush held a campaign rally in the stadium during the 2004 Presidential campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "1480078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1480078", "title": "Surf Stadium", "text": "Surf Stadium\n\nSurf Stadium is a 5,500-seat baseball stadium in Atlantic City, New Jersey that opened in 1998 and has been mostly closed since 2009, although some renovation was performed in 2011 and 2012. The stadium was officially renamed as Surf Stadium in April 2012, and hosted a few events in 2012. The stadium was called The Sandcastle until 2006, and has continued to be referred to by that name in some sources. It was built as the home of the Atlantic City Surf baseball team, which discontinued operations prior to the 2009 season. College and youth teams have also used the stadium, and a music concert was held there in 2011.\n\nThe stadium is located on Albany Avenue, near the eastern terminus of U.S. Routes 40 and 322 and several blocks inland from the Boardwalk and casino strip. The casinos are visible from the seating areas.\n\nSeating is in two primary sections, split by a \"cross aisle\". Luxury boxes are located above the main seating bowl. \n\nIt is now the home stadium of the Atlantic Cape Community College Buccaneers baseball team.\n\nThe stadium, originally known as The Sandcastle, opened in 1998 on a parcel located on the sprawling Bader Field, a closed municipal airport. When the park first opened, the seating sections were named for the various properties on the U.S. version of the Monopoly board, which took its names from the streets of Atlantic City and surrounding towns. However, saying \"I'm sitting in Pacific Avenue\" was not sufficiently descriptive, and so the seating sections were assigned numbers, as at most other stadiums. In 2006, the Bernie Robbins jewelry chain purchased the naming rights and the stadium was renamed as \"Bernie Robbins Stadium\".\n\nSand Stadium (then known as Bernie Robbins Stadium) played host to the Atlantic League All-Star Game in 1998 and 2005 as well as to various amateur baseball events and concerts. In October 2006, it was the venue for Atlantic regional qualifying for the 2008 Rugby League World Cup. In May 2008, WCAU-TV sports director and former NFL player Vai Sikahema accepted an open challenge from former MLB player Jose Canseco to fight him in a celebrity boxing match for $5,000. Canseco claims to have earned black belts in Kung Fu, Taekwondo, and Muay Thai, while Sikahema, who grew up wanting to be a professional boxer, had once fought in a National Golden Gloves Championship that was eventually won by Sugar Ray Leonard. The fight, dubbed the \"War At The Shore\", took place on July 12, 2008, and was hosted by Philadelphia-native adult film personality Steven Sheaffer. Sikahema won by knockout in the first round.\n\nAfter the stadium closed, its condition seriously deteriorated due to lack of maintenance and vandalism. However, the abandoned stadium received considerable restoration in 2011 to prepare it to be used as a VIP area for a three-day musical festival headlined by the Dave Matthews Band that was held at the former Bader Field airport. Most of the improvements focused on repairing the facility's fire-suppression system and plumbing, as well as rejuvenating the field itself. The stadium was used for VIP seating for special ticket holders for the festival, and for a \"Summer Fest\" concert featuring rapper Rick Ross.\n\nIn April 2012, the stadium was officially renamed as \"Surf Stadium\", and after additional renovation work, a youth baseball league tournament was held there in August 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "7433444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7433444", "title": "Switzerland at the 1928 Summer Olympics", "text": "Switzerland at the 1928 Summer Olympics\n\nSwitzerland competed at the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam, Netherlands. 133 competitors, 132 men and 1 woman, took part in 70 events in 15 sports.\n\nNine cyclists, all men, represented Switzerland in 1928.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNine fencers, eight men and 1 woman, represented Switzerland in 1928.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12868474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12868474", "title": "Södertörns SS", "text": "Södertörns SS\n\nSödertörns Simsällskap is a Swedish swim team founded in 1967. The club's activities take place in Eriksdalsbadet, Torvalla simhall and Vårbyhallen. The most famous swimmer is Sarah Sjöström.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47278822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47278822", "title": "Two-Fisted Gentleman", "text": "Two-Fisted Gentleman\n\nTwo-Fisted Gentleman is a 1936 American drama film directed by Gordon Wiles and starring James Dunn, June Clayworth and George McKay.\n\nMickey rises from obscurity to become a top prizefighter, but in the process alienates girlfriend Ginger and takes up with a scheming blonde, June.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2789163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2789163", "title": "Verdun Auditorium", "text": "Verdun Auditorium\n\nVerdun Auditorium is an arena located in the Montreal borough of Verdun, Quebec, Canada. The building was constructed in 1938 and holds 4,114. The largest arena in the west end of Montreal, the complex is also home to Arena Denis Savard, a small minor-hockey rink, attached to its side. The Auditorium has hosted various Quebec Major Junior Hockey League teams, including the Verdun Juniors, Verdun Éperviers and Verdun Collège Français. In 1993 it also hosted the Montreal Dragons for its lone season in the short lived National Basketball League. It is slated to become the home arena of Les Canadiennes de Montreal in 2019.\n\nOn January 25, 2008, the QMJHL approved the sale of the St. John's Fog Devils to Montreal businessman Farrel Miller, who relocated the team to Montreal, where it was known as the Montreal Junior Hockey Club. In the summer of 2011, the team moved to Boisbriand to become the Blainville-Boisbriand Armada.\n\nThe auditorium also received the American punk band Nirvana on November 2, 1993. This was the band's last show in Montreal before frontman Kurt Cobain died five months later.\n\n"}
{"id": "3940849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3940849", "title": "Veterans Memorial Stadium (Long Beach)", "text": "Veterans Memorial Stadium (Long Beach)\n\nVeterans Memorial Stadium (also known as Veterans Stadium, Vets Stadium or simply The Vet) is an 11,600-seat stadium located south of the Liberal Arts Campus of Long Beach City College in Long Beach, California. It is the home stadium to a number of local area high school football teams, as well as Long Beach City College's football team. It was also home to Long Beach State's football team until the program disbanded in 1991.\n\nThe stadium is also popular as a movie set for a number of Hollywood motion pictures. It also hosted the 1985 and 1988 Motorcycle Speedway World Team Cup Finals.\n\nVeterans Stadium opened in 1948, and was owned by the City of Long Beach for a number of decades. The City of Long Beach used the stadium as a temporary location for Fire Station 19 (now located on Clark Avenue, a few blocks away). The fire station was housed at the south end of the stadium under the bleacher area; the large door that was installed for the fire engine to exit can still be seen. The actual \"station\", or living quarters area, is now used as an office for stadium personnel.\n\nSoon after the stadium opened, the Los Angeles Bulldogs of the Pacific Coast Professional Football League became the Long Beach Bulldogs for the 1948 season. But the minor-league PCPFL was on its last legs by this time, and so were the Bulldogs—a legendary West Coast team that had fallen on hard times since the NFL Los Angeles Rams and the AAFC's Los Angeles Dons moved to town. After drawing just 850 fans for a Bulldogs game in Long Beach, the team promptly cancelled the rest of their schedule, and the PCPFL folded soon after.\n\nTwo decades later, in 1967, the Vet hosted professional football again. The Long Beach Admirals were admitted to the Continental Football League as part of the league's expansion to the west coast. But the Admirals wouldn't last long: they drew only 2,475 fans for an exhibition game, then just 950 customers for their regular season opener, a 37-13 loss to the Seattle Rangers. After the disastrous gates, the Admirals applied for an immediate transfer to Portland, Oregon; this was denied, and the Admirals sank beneath the waves.\n\nIn 1987, Long Beach City College acquired Veterans Stadium from the City of Long Beach, and in the 1990s, the college upgraded the stadium for use by local high school football teams. One of the most memorable football contests held at the stadium involved Long Beach Polytechnic High School and Lakewood High School, drawing over 11,500 spectators and regional television coverage. Veterans Stadium is currently the home stadium to the Long Beach Poly Jackrabbits and the Los Alamitos High School Griffins.\n\nDuring the 1980s the stadium also doubled as a Motorcycle speedway venue. The speedway track was laid out over the stadiums existing athletics track with additional banking in the corners to allow for faster racing. As well as hosting the World Team Cup Final in 1985 and 1988 (both won by Denmark with the USA finishing second), the stadium played host to numerous American Finals which were then qualifying rounds for the Speedway World Championship during the decade. Some of the riders to have raced at the stadium include Individual World Champions Bruce Penhall and Sam Ermolenko (USA), Erik Gundersen and Hans Nielsen (Denmark), Per Jonsson (Sweden) and Gary Havelock (England), as well as a host of top class riders such as Americans Shawn and Kelly Moran, Bobby Schwartz and Scott Autrey. Veterans is also the site where Dennis Sigalos ended his career with a badly broken leg following a crash in the 1984 American Final.\n\nProbably the most historically notable football contest at this stadium involved a completely different code—rugby league. In 1987, after the three regular matches in the Australian State of Origin series between the states of Queensland and New South Wales, the two teams went to Long Beach for a fourth match, drawing an announced crowd of 12,439 to see New South Wales win 30–18. The canonicity of the match ever since. While all Australian authorities count the match for purposes of individual player statistics, not all of them include it in official team records. Sources in New South Wales, including the Australian Rugby League and its successor, the Australian Rugby League Commission, officially count the match result; those within the Queensland Rugby League do not.\n\nIn 2004, Veterans Stadium received another upgrade. A new SprinTurf playing surface replaced the old playing surface in time for the 2004 football season.\n\nVeterans Memorial Stadium hosted a match in the 1958 FIFA World Cup qualification.\n\nVeterans Stadium seats 11,600, and are on one side of the stadium, a grandstand facing east. 7,000 of the seats are aluminum bench bleachers, with the other 4,600 seats having fixed chairbacks. The field is surrounded by a nine-lane, 400-meter track.\n\nThe stadium is located on Lew Davis Street between Clark Avenue and Faculty Avenue. It is three miles west of Interstate 605 (use the Carson Street exit) and two miles north of Interstate 405 (use the Lakewood Boulevard exit or the Bellflower Boulevard exit).\n\nThe field is open at both ends and there is a practice field on the north side and a large parking lot on the south side. There are large locker rooms for both home and visiting teams in the stadium and a smaller room for game officials. There are lights for night play using metal-halide lamps on eight towers. Veterans Stadium also features a two-level press box (capacity 100) atop the west grandstand.\n\nSpectator amenities include 4,000 surface parking spaces, two ticket booths with two windows each, three permanent concessions, and a combined message board and scoreboard.\n\n"}
{"id": "20311051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20311051", "title": "Vidarbha Cricket Association Stadium", "text": "Vidarbha Cricket Association Stadium\n\nThe Vidarbha Cricket Association Stadium () also known as New VCA stadium is a cricket ground in Nagpur, Maharashtra, India. It is the largest cricket stadium in India in terms of field area.\n\nThe ground, located at Jamtha on the southern outskirts of Nagpur, was inaugurated in 2008, replacing the old Vidarbha Cricket Association Ground as the city's main stadium. The qualities of the stadium have been praised by the International Cricket Council.\n\nVCA Stadium is the home ground for the Vidarbha and Central Zone teams for the domestic Ranji Trophy and Duleep Trophy tournaments, respectively. As of 19 August 2017 it has hosted five Tests, seven ODIs and 11 T20Is.\n\nSachin Tendulkar said \"the facilities exceeded all expectations\" and Ricky Ponting commented on the comfort in the changing rooms.\nRajasthan Royals skipper Shane Warne was extremely pleased with the \"largeness of the ground\" after his team’s two-run win over Deccan Chargers. \"Michael Lumb's slog to deep mid-wicket found a fielder. Now, if this was M. A. Chidambaram Stadium or M. Chinnaswamy Stadium, then that ball would have landed in a taxi going to the team hotel. We need big grounds like these,\" Warne said. It has 80-yard straight boundaries and 85-yard square boundaries, which makes it one of the largest grounds (in terms of playing area) in the world.\n\nLalit Modi said the VCA was \"by far the best stadium in India\". The stadium has been praised not only by the players but also by commentators and journalists because of the facilities. Alan Wilkins said, \"It is a fabulous stadium, a Colosseum here in Nagpur. It has the most impressive Press box for the travelling media. It really is a wonderful venue.\"\n\nThe first international match at this venue was the Fourth Test between India and Australia in November 2008, which India won by 172 runs. The Australian spinner Jason Krejza finished with 12 wickets, while Harbhajan Singh claimed seven for India.\n\nFour matches were played at the stadium during the 2011 Cricket World Cup. The highest Test scores are by India: 566/8, 558/6 and 441. The leading run scorers in Tests are Virendar Sehwag (357), Sachin Tendulkar (289) and Hashim Amla(253). The leading wicket takers in a Test are Harbhajan Singh (13 wickets), Jason Krejza (12) and Ishant Sharma (11). The highest ODI scores are by India 354/6, India 351/4, Australia 350/6, New Zealand 302/7 and India 301/7. The leading scorers in ODIs are Mahendra Singh Dhoni (243), Sachin Tendulkar(158) and Gautam Gambhir (147). The leading wicket takers in ODIs are Mitchell Johnson (7 wickets), Dale Steyn (5) and Harbhajan Singh (5).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1530050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1530050", "title": "Woodcar Independent Racing League", "text": "Woodcar Independent Racing League\n\nWoodcar Independent Racing League (WIRL) is an independent racing league for pinewood car builders.\n\nPinewood car racing was popularized by the well known Boy Scout sanctioned Pinewood Derby. Unlike the Scout races, WIRL races are open to people of all ages and participants are not required to be a member of any particular organization. To compete in WIRL racing events, cars are sent to a central location where they are raced together on the same track. Cars can race for one year under one of four sets of rules: Rookie, Pure Stock, Pro Stock and Modified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829913", "title": "World Rugby Museum", "text": "World Rugby Museum\n\nThe World Rugby Museum re-opened in early February 2018 in the South Stand of Twickenham Stadium formerly opened as ‘The Museum of Rugby’ in 1996. It became the World Rugby Museum in 2007. \nIts collection comprises over 37,000 pieces of rugby memorabilia, boots, balls, jerseys, programmes, match-tickets, books and assorted paraphernalia.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum has several fluid exhibition spaces in which it rotates objects from its collection and curates a regular programme of special exhibitions.\n\nPast exhibitions have included: HQ at 100, One Century Hundreds of Moments. More Than A Tour, the 1905 All-Blacks. Gone But Not Forgotten, Rugby Players at War. England 2010, the Women's Rugby World Cup. From War to Tour, 1906 and the First Springboks.\n\nPermanent exhibitions include: The Twickenham Wall of Fame, The Birth of Rugby and The World of Rugby.\n\nThe Wall of Fame was opened by Martin Johnson (rugby union) on 3 June 2005. It is a celebration of the best players from all over the world to have played at Twickenham Stadium.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum’s education facilities predominantly comprise its ‘Workshops and Seminars’ programme.\n\nWorkshops involve a series of hands-on, curriculum-focused active-learning sessions, such as: ‘Rugby Strips & Textiles’, ‘What Kind of Rugby Player Are You?’ and ‘How to be a Rugby Fitness Coach’.\n\nSeminars are delivered by professionals from within the Rugby Football Union and include: ‘Twickenham Control’, ‘Commercial Twickenham’ and ‘Pro Sports Coaching’.\n\n‘Workshops and Seminars’ received the Sandford Award for Heritage Education in 2010.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum has the most extensive collection of rugby football memorabilia in the world and includes over 25,000 recorded objects, 7,000 pieces of archival material and 7-8,000 photographs.\n\nIt includes the RFU collection, the Harry Langton Collection and the RFU Rugby Archive.\n\nStar items include: the Calcutta Cup, the 2003 Rugby World Cup, an 1871 England Jersey and Cap and an 1888 Anglo-Australian Tour Jersey and Cap.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum is a museum of international rugby history and includes objects from all over the globe.\n\nThe Rugby Archive consists of over 7,000 pieces of archival material including books, match-programmes, minutes and club histories.\n\nStar items include: Rugby Football Union minutes 1871-1949, the 1907 Twickenham Stadium deeds, a photograph album relating to the first British and Irish lions Tour of South Africa in 1891, the original 'Football Rules' as produced at Rugby School in 1845 and the Rugby Football Union's 1871 'Proposed Laws of the Game'.\n\nThe archive does not operate a lending facility but students and private researchers can use the resource upon appointment.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum comes under the umbrella of the Rugby Football Foundation, a charitable trust established by the Rugby Football Union. \n\n"}
{"id": "18527200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18527200", "title": "Yunist Stadium (Horishni Plavni)", "text": "Yunist Stadium (Horishni Plavni)\n\nYunist Stadium () is a football stadium in Horishni Plavni. For Ukrainian Second League 2008-09 season the stadium is a home arena for FC Hirnyk-Sport Komsomolsk and FC Kremin Kremenchuk.\n\n"}
{"id": "55121451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55121451", "title": "Zhejiang International Circuit", "text": "Zhejiang International Circuit\n\nThe Zhejiang Circuit is a motorsport race track in Shaoxing, China. The circuit was opened in 2016.\n\n"}
