{"id": "2927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2927", "title": "Albanians", "text": "Albanians\n\nThe Albanians (, ) are an ethnic group native to the Balkan Peninsula sharing a common Albanian ancestry, culture, history and language. They primarily live in Albania and Kosovo with communities in Croatia, Greece, Italy, Montenegro, Macedonia and Turkey. They constitute a diaspora in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Germany, Egypt, Romania, Serbia, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nThe Albanian diaspora was formed during the course of the late Middle Ages and early modern period. Between the 11th and 18th centuries, sizeable numbers of Albanians emigrated to escape various sociopolitical difficulties. One population which became the Arvanites settled down in southern Greece between the 13th and 16th centuries, assimilating into and now self-identifying as Greeks. Another population, who became the Arbëreshë, settled in southern Italy and form the oldest continuous Albanian diaspora, producing many prominent figures. Smaller populations dating to migrations during the 18th century include the Arbanasi, located on Croatia's Dalmatian coast, and scattered communities across southern Ukraine.\n\nAlbanians are primarily composed of two sub-ethnic groups known as the Ghegs and Tosks. In the 13th century, the Ghegs converted to Roman Catholicism from Eastern Orthodoxy as a means to resist the Slavic Serbs. In the 15th century, Skanderbeg led the medieval Albanian resistance to the Ottoman conquest. During the 17th and 18th centuries, Albanians in large numbers converted to Islam, in part due to the privileged legal and social position of Muslims in the empire and coercion by Ottoman authorities in times of war. Albanians attained important political and military positions within the empire and culturally contributed to the wider Muslim world. Following the Albanian National Awakening, during the Balkan Wars, in 1912, Albanians were partitioned between the newly-formed Independent Albania and Serbia, Greece and Montenegro. From 1945 to 1992, Albania was ruled by a communist government. Albanians in neighbouring Yugoslavia underwent periods of discrimination that concluded with the breakup of that state in the early 1990s and eventually the independence of Kosovo in 2008.\n\nThe Albanians () and their country Albania () have been identified by many ethnonyms. The most common native ethnonym is \"Shqiptar\", plural \"Shqiptarë\"; the name \"Albanians\" (Byzantine Greek: \"Albanoi/Arbanitai/Arbanites\"; Latin: \"Albanenses/Arbanenses\") was used in medieval documents, that gradually entered European languages from which other similar derivative names emerged.\n\nFrom these ethnonyms, names for Albanians were also derived in other languages, that were or still are in use. In English \"Albanians\"; Italian \"Albanesi\"; German \"Albaner\"; Greek \"Arvanites\", \"Alvanitis\" (Αλβανίτης) plural: \"Alvanites\" (Αλβανίτες), \"Alvanos\" (Αλβανός) plural: \"Alvanoi\" (Αλβανοί); Turkish \"Arnaut\", \"Arnavut\"; South Slavic languages \"Arbanasi\" (Арбанаси), \"Albanci\" (Албанци); Aromanian \"Arbineş\" and so on.\n\nThe term \"Albanoi\" (Αλβανοί) is first encountered twice in the works of Byzantine historian Michael Attaliates, and the term \"Arvanitai\" (Αρβανίται) is used once by the same author. He referred to the \"Albanoi\" as having taken part in a revolt against the Byzantine Empire in 1043, and to the \"Arbanitai\" as subjects of the Duke of Dyrrachium (modern Durrës). These references have been disputed as to whether they refer to the people of Albania. Historian E. Vranoussi believes that these \"Albanoi\" were Normans from Sicily. She also notes that the same term (as \"Albani\") in medieval Latin meant \"foreigners\".\n\nThe reference to \"Arvanitai\" from Attaliates regarding the participation of Albanians in a rebellion around 1078 is undisputed. In later Byzantine usage, the terms \"Arbanitai\" and \"Albanoi\" with a range of variants were used interchangeably, while sometimes the same groups were also called by the classicising name Illyrians. The first reference to the Albanian language dates to the latter 13th century (around 1285).\n\nThe ethnonym \"Albanian\" has been hypothesized to be connected to and stem from the \"Albanoi\", an Illyrian tribe mentioned by Ptolemy with their centre at the city of Albanopolis. Linguists believe that the \"alb\" part in the root word originates from an Indo-European term for a type of mountainous topography, from which other words such as \"alps\" are derived. Through the root word \"alban\" and its rhotacized equivalents \"arban\", \"albar\", and \"arbar\", the term in Albanian became rendered as \"Arbëneshë/Arbëreshë\" for the people and \"Arbënia/Arbëria\" for the country. The Albanian language was referred to as \"Arbnisht\" and \"Arbërisht\". While the exonym Albania for the general region inhabited by the Albanians does have connotations to Classical Antiquity, the Albanian language employs a different ethnonym, with modern Albanians referring to themselves as \"Shqip(ë)tarë\" and to their country as \"Shqipëria\". Two etymologies have been proposed for this ethnonym: one, derived from the etymology from the Albanian word for eagle (shqipe, var., shqiponjë). In Albanian folk etymology, this word denotes a bird totem, dating from the times of Skanderbeg as displayed on the Albanian flag. The other is within scholarship that connects it to the verb 'to speak' (\"me shqiptue\") from the Latin \"excipere\". In this instance the Albanian endonym like \"Slav\" and others would originally have been a term connoting \"those who speak [intelligibly, the same language]\". The new ethnonyms \"Shqip(ë)tarë\" and \"Shqipëria\" emerged and replaced the older ethnonyms \"Arbëneshë/Arbëreshë\" and \"Arbënia/Arbëria\" between the late 17th and early 18th centuries. That era brought about religious and other sociopolitical changes. As such a new and generalised response by Albanians based on ethnic and linguistic consciousness to this new and different Ottoman world emerging around them was a change in ethnonym.\n\nApproximately 7 million Albanians are to be found within the Balkan Peninsula with about half this number residing in Albania and the other divided between Kosovo, Montenegro, Serbia, the Republic of Macedonia, Greece and to a much smaller extent Bosnia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania and Slovenia. An estimated 2.2 million Albanians live in the territory of Former Yugoslavia, the greater part, which is close to two million, in Kosovo. Rights to use the Albanian language in education and government were given and guaranteed by the 1974 Constitution of SFRY and were widely utilized in Macedonia and in Montenegro before the Dissolution of Yugoslavia.\n\nThe presence of Albanians in Kosovo as well as in the adjacent regions of Toplica and Morava is recorded since the Middle Ages. As the Serbs expelled many Albanians from the wider Toplica and Morava regions in Southern Serbia, which the 1878 Congress of Berlin had given to the Principality of Serbia, many of them settled in Kosovo. In Kosovo, they and their descendants are known as \"Muhaxher\" (meaning \"the exiled\", from the Arabic muhajir).\n\nDuring the First Balkan War, Serbia and Montenegro, after expelling the Ottoman forces in present-day Albania and Kosovo, committed numerous war crimes against the Albanians, which were reported by the European, American and Serbian opposition press. Further during the Kosovo War, Serbian paramilitary forces committed war crimes in Kosovo, although the Serbian government claims that the army was only going after suspected Albanian terrorists. This triggered a 78-day NATO campaign in 1999. Nowadays, Albanians in Kosovo constitute the majority with 1,616,869 million.\n\nCulturally, Albanians in Kosovo are very closely related to Albanians in Albania. Traditions and customs differ even from town to town in Kosovo itself. The spoken dialect is Gheg, typical of northern Albanians. The language of state institutions, education, books, media and newspapers is the standard dialect of Albanian, which is closer to the Tosk dialect. The most widespread religion among Albanians in Kosovo is Islam, mostly Sunni, and Roman Catholicism.\n\nThere are small Albanian populations dating to migrations from the 18th century. One group known as the \"Arbanas\" are located on Croatia's Dalmatian coast and fled Ottoman repression. The second known as the \"Албанці\" (Albantsi) are located in scattered communities across southern Ukraine and descend from Albanian warriors who fought against the Ottoman Empire during the Russo-Turkish wars and allowed to settle in the Russian Empire. The actual number of the Albanian population in Romania is unofficially estimated at around 10,000 persons. Most members of the community live in Bucharest, while the rest mainly live in larger urban centers such as Timișoara, Iași, Constanța and Cluj-Napoca. Most families in Romania are Orthodox and trace their origins to the area around Korçë.\n\n \nThe Albanian migration to Italy can be broadly categorised into several migration cycles that occurred throughout history which in turn can be attributed to factors such as political or religious difficulties that emerged in the Balkan Peninsula. It dates back to the 15th-17th centuries as once numerous Albanian and other Balkan soldiers, known as the Stratioti, were recruited to the Italian Peninsula as prominent mercenaries by the Neapolitans, Sicilians and Venetians. The Stratiotis, composed of Christians and Muslims, served initially for the Republic of Venice in their campaigns, among others, against the Ottoman Empire.\nThe Arbëreshës are the traditional Albanian population of Italy and started to settle Southern Italy following the Ottoman conquest of the Balkans and Constantinople between the 14th and 16th centuries. Today, the Albanian community constitute one of the largest ethnolinguistic minority in Italy which is protected by law. \n\nThe total number of Arbëreshës is approximately 260,000 scattered across Sicily, Calabria and Apulia. There are as well numbers outside of Italy such as in North and South America, especially in such countries as Argentina, Canada, Chile, Uruguay and the United States.\n\nCenturies later in the end of the 20th century occurred another and simultaneously the largest migration cycle of Albanians to Italy surpassing the earlier migration of the Arbëreshë. Their migration stems from severe political and social oppression during decades of isolation from the outside world under the communist regime leaded by Enver Hoxha. \n\nBetween 2015 and 2016, the number of Albanians regularly residing in Italy was numbered to be around 480,000 and 500,000. Tuscany, Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna represent the regions with the strongest presence of the modern Albanian population in Italy. In 2012, 41.5% of the Albanian population were counted as Muslim, 38.9% as Christian including 27.7% as Roman Catholic and 11% as Eastern Orthodox and 17.8% as Irreligious.\n\nIn Croatia, the Albanian language is one of the officially recognized minority languages of the country and is primarily spoken by the Albanians and Arbanasis. As defined in the 2011 census, the number of Albanians in the country was estimated to be 17,513. They are mostly concentrated in the coastal cities of Croatia and the capital city of Zagreb.\n\nThe history of Albanian presence in Croatia can be traced back to the Middle Ages. In this period, there was a significant Albanian community in Ragusa with numerous families of Albanian origin inclusively the Sorgo family who came from the Cape of Rodon in central Albania, across Kotor in eastern Montenegro, to Dalmatia.\n\nBy the 13th century, Albanian merchants were trading directly with the peoples of the Republic of Ragusa which increased familiarity between Albanians and Ragusans. The capture of Albania by the Ottoman Empire and the death of Skanderbeg caused many Christian Albanians to flee to Dalmatia and other countries including Italy and Greece.\n\nIn the 18th century, the suppression of Catholicism increased rapidly and dramatically which led the Arbanasis to flee to Dalmatia. They found initially refuge in Kotor and moved further north to Zadar where they established the village Borgo Erizzo which is at the present day a neighbourhood of Zadar.\n\nAn estimated 275,000–600,000 (Includes dual citizens, temporary migrants, and undocumented) Albanians live in Greece, forming the largest immigrant community in the country. They are economic migrants whose migration began in 1991, following the collapse of the Socialist People's Republic of Albania.\n\nThe Arvanites and Albanian-speakers of Western Thrace are a group descended from Tosks who migrated to southern and central Greece between the 13th and 16th centuries. They are Greek Orthodox Christians, and though they traditionally speak a dialect of Tosk Albanian known as Arvanitika, they have fully assimilated into the Greek nation and do not identify as Albanians. Arvanitika is in a state of attrition due to language shift towards Greek and large-scale internal migration to the cities and subsequent intermingling of the population during the 20th century.\n\nThe Cham Albanians were a group that formerly inhabited a region of Epirus known as Chameria, nowadays Thesprotia in northwestern Greece. Many Cham Albanians converted to Islam during the Ottoman era. Muslim Chams were expelled from Greece during World War II, by an anti-communist resistance group, as a result of their participation in a communist resistance group and the collaboration with the Axis occupation, while Orthodox Chams have largely assimilated into the Greek nation..\n\nBy the 20th and 21st centuries, there have been increasingly large numbers of Albanian people settling in other parts of Western and Northern Europe. Following the end of communism and decades of isolationism, several thousands of Albanians, predominantly young people, fled their country due to the disastrous social, economic and political circumstances in Albania.\n\nDue to the close proximity, the largest Albanian immigration wave of the 20th century started to occur from Albania largely within Southern Europe to Greece and Italy. The estimated number of Albanian immigrants abroad in the 1990s was approximately 500,000 of whom 90% was settling in Greece.\n\nThere are approximately 200.000 Albanians in Switzerland with the main concentration in the cantons of Zürich, Basel, Lucerne, Bern and St. Gallen. The neighbouring Germany is home to around 250.000 to 300.000 Albanians while in Austria there are around 40.000 and 80.000 Albanians concentrated in the states of Vienna, Styria, Salzburg, Lower and Upper Austria. A large proportion of these people are from Kosovo and Macedonia with a lesser extent from Albania and other territories however, the number of Albanians in all three countries has sharply increased following the conflicts in the Balkans and the human tragedy in Kosovo.\nThe largest number of Albanians in Scandinavia is to be found in Sweden where 100,000 people of Albanian descent are thought to live. However, according to official data, only around 50,000 people have declared Albanian as their first language. A smaller number of Albanians have also settled in Norway and Denmark with more than 11,000 and 8,000 Albanians respecitvely.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the number of Albanian nationals living in the UK increased from around 2,000 in 2004 to around 14,600 in 2015. As of other estimations, the population of Albanians in the UK lies between 70,000 and 100,000. Albanian migrants live in all parts of the UK especially in England.\n\nThe Albanian diaspora in Turkey was formed during the Ottoman era through economic migration and early years of the Turkish republic through migration due to sociopolitical discrimination and violence experienced by Albanians in Balkan countries. According to a 2008 report prepared for the National Security Council of Turkey by academics of three Turkish universities in eastern Anatolia, there were approximately 1,300,000 people of Albanian descent living in Turkey. According to that study, more than 500,000 Albanian descendants still recognize their ancestry and or their language, culture and traditions. There are also other estimates regarding the Albanian population in Turkey that range from being 3–4 million people up to a total of 5 million in number, although most of these are Turkish citizens of either full or partial Albanian ancestry being no longer fluent in Albanian (cf. German Americans). This was due to various degrees of either linguistic and or cultural assimilation occurring amongst the Albanian diaspora in Turkey. Nonetheless, a sizable proportion of the Albanian community in Turkey, such as that of Istanbul, has maintained its distinct Albanian identity. Albanians are active in the civic life of Turkey.\nIn Egypt there are 18,000 Albanians, mostly Tosk speakers. Many are descendants of the Janissaries of Muhammad Ali Pasha, an Albanian who became Wāli, and self-declared Khedive of Egypt and Sudan. In addition to the dynasty that he established, a large part of the former Egyptian and Sudanese aristocracy was of Albanian origin. Albanian Sunnis, Bektashis and Orthodox Christians were all represented in this diaspora, whose members at some point included major Renaissance figures (\"Rilindasit\"), including Thimi Mitko, Spiro Dine, Andon Zako Çajupi, Milo Duçi, Fan Noli and others who lived in Egypt for a time. With the ascension of Gamal Abdel Nasser in Egypt and rise of Arab nationalism, the last remnants of Albanian community there were forced to leave. Albanians have been present in Arab countries such as Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan, and for about five centuries as a legacy of Ottoman Turkish rule.\n\nThe first immigration of Albanians to Canada began already in the 19th and 20th centuries though the largest wave of migration from the Balkan Peninsula to Canada was in 1999, when 7,000 people mostly Albanians from Kosovo, arrived in that country. They primarily settled in Canada's industrial cities, mostly Toronto, Montreal and Edmonton, which was besides the United States a major centre of Albanian migration to North America. \nAlbanian Canadians have their roots in Albania, although the country of their birth could be Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, Italy or Greece. In 2016, Canada was home to approximately 36,185 Albanians from Albania and 2,870 Albanians from Kosovo predominantly distributed in Toronto, Montreal, Ottawa and Vancouver.\n\nThe largest population of Albanians in the Americas is predominantly to be found in the United States. According to the 2013 American Community Survey, there are 194,028 Albanian Americans (American citizens of full or partial Albanian descent).\n\nThe descendants of the Arbëreshës from Italy were the first ethnic Albanians to arrive in the United States. The immigration of the Arbëreshës to the country occurred at the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century. Having a strong sense of identity, the Arbëreshë Americans are often distinguishable from other Albanian Americans with regard to their italianized names and a common religion. They are often indistinguishable from Italian Americans because of being assimilated into the Italian American community.\n\nAlbanian immigration to Australia took place in the late 19th century and much of the 20th century. Following the introduction of migration quotas by the United States, people who had planned to immigrate to the States were forced to choose Australia instead. The majority of them had Muslim and Orthodox backgrounds and tended to live in Victoria and Queensland but also in Western and Northern Australia.\n\nItaly's annexation of Albania and its alliance with Nazi Germany against the allies marked a difficult time for Albanian and Italian Australians as they were thought by Australian authorities to pose a fascist threat. However, the number of Albanian immigrants slowed consequently during that time but also due to immigration restrictions placed by the communist regime in Albania.\n\nThe most recent Albanian immigrants came mostly from Kosovo and the former Yugoslavian countries inclusively Macedonia and Serbia and Montenegro. The immigrants were mostly Muslims but also Orthodox and Catholics among them the relatives of the renowned Albanian nun and missionary Mother Teresa. \nIn 2016, approximately 4,041 persons resident in Australia identified themselves as having been born in Albania, while 15,901 persons identified themselves as having Albanian ancestry, either alone or in combination with another ancestry. There are many Albanian Australians that were born in Italy, Macedonia as well as Kosovo, due to this they are recorded under those statistics.\n\nAn old Bulgarian text compiled around the beginning of the 11th century contains a possible reference to Albanians. It is preserved in a Serbian manuscript dated 1628 and was first published in 1934 by Radoslav Grujic. It is a fragment of a once longer text that endeavours to explain the origins of peoples and languages in a question-and-answer form similar to a catechism. It divides the world into seventy-two languages and three religious categories: Orthodox Christians, half-believers (i.e. non-Orthodox Christians) and non-believers. Grujic dated it to the early 11th century and if this and the identification of the \"Arbanasi\" as Albanians are correct it would be the earliest written document referring to the Albanians as a people or language group.\n\nIt can be seen that there are various languages on earth. Of them, there are five Orthodox languages: Bulgarian, Greek, Syrian, Iberian (Georgian) and Russian. Three of these have Orthodox alphabets: Greek, Bulgarian and Iberian. There are twelve languages of half-believers: Alamanians, Franks, Magyars (Hungarians), Indians, Jacobites, Armenians, Saxons, Lechs (Poles), Arbanasi (Albanians), Croatians, Hizi, Germans.\n\nThe first undisputed mention of Albanians in the historical record is attested in Byzantine source for the first time in 1079–1080, in a work titled \"History\" by Byzantine historian Michael Attaliates, who referred to the \"Albanoi\" as having taken part in a revolt against Constantinople in 1043 and to the \"Arbanitai\" as subjects of the duke of Dyrrachium. It is disputed, however, whether the \"Albanoi\" of the events of 1043 refers to Albanians in an ethnic sense or whether \"Albanoi\" is a reference to Normans from Sicily under an archaic name (there was also a tribe in Italy by the name of \"Albanoi\"). However a later reference to Albanians from the same Attaleiates, regarding the participation of Albanians in a rebellion around 1078, is undisputed. At this point, they are already fully Christianized, although Albanian mythology and folklore are part of the Paleo-Balkan pagan mythology, in particular showing Greek influence.\n\nFrom the late 11th century the Albanians were called Arbën/Arbër and their country as Arbanon, a mountainous area to the west of Lake Ochrida and the upper valley of the river Shkumbin. It was in 1190, when the rulers of Arbanon (local Albanian noble called Progon and his sons Dhimitër and Gjin) created their principality with its capital at Krujë. After the fall of Progon Dynasty in 1216, the principality came under Grigor Kamona and Gulam of Albania. Finally the Principality was dissolved in 1255. Around 1230 the two main centers of Albanian settlements, one around Devoll river in what is now central Albania, and the other around the region which was known with the name Arbanon.\n\nIn 1271 Charles of Anjou created the Kingdom of Albania, after he captured a part of the Despotate of Epirus. A major attempt to advance further in direction of Constantinople failed at the Siege of Berat (1280–1281). A Byzantine counteroffensive soon ensued, which drove the Angevins out of the interior by 1281. The Sicilian Vespers further weakened the position of Charles, and the Kingdom was soon reduced by the Epirotes to a small area around Durrës. The kingdom however held out until 1368, when the city was captured by Karl Thopia. The presence of the kingdom reinforced the influence of Catholicism and the conversion to its rite, not only in the region of Durrës but in other parts of the country. A new wave of Catholic dioceses, churches and monasteries were founded, a number of different religious orders began spreading into the country, and papal missionaries also reached the territories of the Kingdom of Albania. Those who were not Catholic in Central and North Albania converted and a great number of Albanian clerics and monks were present in the Dalmatian Catholic institutions.\n\nIn the 14th century a number of Albanian principalities were created. These included Principality of Kastrioti, Principality of Dukagjini, Princedom of Albania, and Principality of Gjirokastër. At the beginning of the 15th century these principalities became stronger, especially because of the fall of the Serbian Empire. Some of these principalities were united in 1444 under the military alliance called League of Lezha.\n\nAt the dawn of the establishment of the Ottoman Empire in Southeast Europe, the geopolitical landscape was marked by scattered kingdoms of small principalities. The Ottomans erected their garrisons throughout southern Albania by 1415 and established formal jurisdiction over most of Albania by 1431. However, in 1443 a great and longstanding revolt broke under the lead of the Albanian national hero Gjergj Kastrioti Skanderbeg, which lasted until 1479, many times defeating major Ottoman armies led by sultans Murad II and Mehmed II. Skanderbeg united initially the Albanian princes and later established a centralized authority over most of the non-conquered territories, becoming Lord of Albania. He also tried relentlessly but rather unsuccessfully to create a European coalition against the Ottomans. He frustrated every attempt by the Turks to regain Albania, which they envisioned as a springboard for the invasion of Italy and western Europe. His unequal fight against the mightiest power of the time won the esteem of Europe as well as some support in the form of money and military aid from Naples, the papacy, Venice, and Ragusa. Finally after decades of resistance, Ottomans captured Shkodër in 1479 and Durrës in 1501. Skanderbeg's long struggle to keep Albania free became highly significant to the Albanian people, as it strengthened their solidarity, made them more conscious of their national identity, and served later as a great source of inspiration in their struggle for national unity, freedom, and independence. The invasion triggered a several waves of migration of Albanians from Albania, Epirus and Peloponnese to the south of Italy, constituting an Arbereshe community. Albanians were recruited all over Europe as a light cavalry known as stratioti. The stratioti were pioneers of light cavalry tactics during this era. In the early 16th century heavy cavalry in the European armies was principally remodeled after Albanian stradioti of the Venetian army, Hungarian hussars and German mercenary cavalry units (Schwarzreitern).\nBy the 16th century, Ottoman rule over Southeast Europe was largely secure. The Ottomans proceeded in stages, first appointing a qadi along with governors and then military retainers in the cities. Timar holders, not necessarily converts to Islam, would occasionally rebel, the most famous case of which is Skanderbeg. His figure would be used later in the 19th century as a central component of Albanian national identity. Ottoman control over the Albanian territories was secured in 1571 when Ulcinj, presently in Montenegro, was captured.\n\nThe most significant impact on the Albanians was the gradual Islamization process of a large majority of the population, although such a process only became widespread in the 17th century. Mainly Catholics converted in the 17th century, while the Orthodox Albanians became Muslim mainly in the following century. Initially confined to the main city centres of Elbasan and Shkodër, by this time the countryside was also embracing the new religion. In Elbasan Muslims made up just over half the population in 1569–70 whereas in Shkodër this was almost 90% and in Berat closer to 60%. In the 17th century, however, Catholic conversion to Islam increased, even in the countryside. The motives for conversion according to scholars were diverse, depending on the context. The lack of source-material does not help when investigating such issues. Reasons in various different contexts included the incentive to escape high taxes levied on Christian subjects, ecclesiastical decay, coercion by Ottoman authorities in times of war, and the privileged legal and social position Muslims had over that of Christians within the empire.\n\nAreas such as Albania, Western Macedonia, Southern Serbia, Kosovo, parts of northern Greece and southern Montenegro in Ottoman sources were referred to as \"Arnavudluk\" or Albania. The Ottoman period that followed in Albania after the end of Skanderbeg's resistance was characterized by other changes. Many Albanians gained prominent positions in the Ottoman government such as: Iljaz Hoxha, Hamza Kastrioti, Koca Davud Pasha, Zağanos Pasha, Köprülü Mehmed Pasha (head of the Köprülü family of Grand Viziers), the Bushati family, Sulejman Pasha, Edhem Pasha, Nezim Frakulla, Haxhi Shekreti, Hasan Zyko Kamberi, Ali Pasha of Gucia, Muhammad Ali of Egypt and Ali Pasha of Tepelena who rose to become one of the most powerful Muslim Albanian rulers in western Rumelia. During the Ottoman era Albanians involved in imperial service could also be found across the empire in Egypt, Algeria and across the Maghreb as vital military and administrative retainers.\n\nIn the 1870s, the Sublime Porte's reforms aimed at checking the Ottoman Empire's disintegration had clearly failed. The image of the \"Turkish yoke\" had become fixed in the nationalist mythologies and psyches of the people in the Balkan peninsula, and their march toward independence quickened. Because of the higher degree of Islamic influence, the Albanians internal social divisions, and the fear that they would lose their Albanian-inhabited territories to the emerging Balkan states, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, and Greece, were the last of the peoples in the Balkans to desire division from the Ottomans.\n\nThe national awakening as a coherent political movement began after the Treaty of San Stefano, according to which Albanian-inhabited territories were to be ceded to other states of the Balkans, and focused on preventing that partition. The Treaty of San Stefano was the impetus for the nation-building movement, which was based more on fear of partition than national identity. Even after, Albania declared independence on 28 November 1912, national identity was fragmented and possibly non-existent in much of the newly proposed country. The state of disunity and fragmentation would remain until the communist period following second World War, when the communist nation-building project would achieve greater success in nation-building and reach more people than any previous regime, thus creating Albanian national communist identity.\n\nThe Albanian language is an Indo-European language and occupies an independent branch within the family tree. Although it is an isolate language within the Indo-European tree, while no other language has been conclusively linked to its branch.\n\nThe language is the official language of Albania and Kosovo and is spoken fluently by the majority of the countries populations. Albanian is as well a recognised minority language in Croatia, Greece, Italy, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania and Serbia. It is the second most spoken language in Greece (Arvanitika and Çam), Macedonia and the third most spoken language in Italy (Arbëreshë). In consideration to the large Albanian diaspora, the total number of Albanian speakers is much higher than the native speakers in Southern Europe.\n\nA traditional view, based mainly on the territory, where the languages were spoken, links the origin of Albanian with Illyrian. Not enough Illyrian archaeological evidence is left behind to come to a definite conclusion. Another theory links the Albanian as originating from the Thracian language. This theory takes exception to the territory, since the language was spoken in an area distinct from Albania, and no significant population movements have been recorded in the period when the shift from one language to the other is supposed to have occurred.\n\nAlbanian can be divided into two cultural and linguistic groups including the northern Ghegs and the southern Tosks. The geographic border between both based on dialect is the Shkumbin River. Gheg is mostly spoken, along with the Albanians in Croatia (Arbanasi), Kosovo, Montenegro and Northwestern Macedonia. Tosk speaker include the Albanians of Greece (Arvanites, Çam), Southwestern Macedonia and Southern Italy (Arbëreshë). The diversity between Ghegs and Tosks can be substantial, both sides identify strongly with the common national and ethnic culture.\n\nMost Albanians in Albania speak foreign languages as revealed by a new study carried out by Eurostat, the statistical agency of the European Union, which analyzed the demography of the adult population 25-64 of several European countries as of 2016. The results of the Adult Education Survey, released in May 2018, showed that the 39.9% of the 25–64 years old albanians is able to use at least one foreign language. The main foreign language known is English with 40.0%, followed by Italian with 27.8% and Greek with 22.9%. The English speakers were mostly young people, the knowledge of Italian is stable in every age group, while there is a decrease of the speakers of Greek in the youngest group.\n\nThe Albanians in Italy are either Albanian immigrants from the 1990s, who came in Italy following the breakdown of the communist regime in Albania in 1990 and speak standard Albanian and the Italian language, or the Arbëreshë people, Albanian refugees who fled from Albania for Southern Italy between the fourteenth and eighteenth centuries in consequence of the Ottoman invasion of the Balkans, who nowadays speak the Arbëresh language, a variety of Albanian that derives from Tosk spoken in southern Albania and follows a similar divergence pattern to Arvanitika.\n\nNowadays most Albanians are non observant with many who are irreligious. A majority among Albanian Muslims are Sunni, while a large minority are Bektashi (an esoteric Shia-derived sect known for liberal attitudes) and there are also smaller Sufi groups, while Christians are split between Orthodox and Catholics with a smaller presence of Protestant sects.\n\nThe Albanians first appear in the historical record in Byzantine sources of the late 11th century. At this point, they were already fully Christianized. All Albanians were Orthodox Christians until the middle of the 13th century when the Ghegs were converted to Catholicism as a mean to resist the Slavs. Christianity was later overtaken by Islam, which kept the scepter of the major religion during the period of Ottoman Turkish rule from the 15th century until 1912. Eastern Orthodox Christianity and Roman Catholicism continued to be practiced with less frequency.\n\nDuring the 20th century the monarchy and later the totalitarian state followed a systematic secularization of the nation and the national culture. This policy was chiefly applied within the borders of the current Albanian state. It produced a secular majority in the population. All forms of Christianity, Islam and other religious practices were prohibited except for old non-institutional pagan practices in the rural areas, which were seen as identifying with the national culture. The current Albanian state has revived some pagan festivals, such as the Spring festival () held yearly on 14 March in the city of Elbasan. It is a national holiday.\nThe communist regime which ruled Albania after World War II persecuted and suppressed religious observance and institutions, and entirely banned religion to the point where Albania was officially declared to be the world's first atheist state. Religious freedom returned to Albania following the regime's change in 1992. Albanian Sunni Muslims are found throughout the country, Albanian Orthodox Christians as well as Bektashis are concentrated in the south, while Roman Catholics are found primarily in the north of the country.\n\nAccording to 2011 census, 58.79% of Albania adheres to Islam, making it the largest religion in the country. The majority of Albanian Muslims are Sunni with a Bektashi minority. Christianity is practiced by 16.99% of the population, making it the second largest religion in the country. The remaining population is either irreligious or belongs to other religious groups. Before World War II, there was given a distribution of 70% Muslims, 20% Eastern Orthodox, and 10% Roman Catholics. Today, Gallup Global Reports 2010 shows that religion plays a role in the lives of only 39% of Albanians, and ranks Albania the thirteenth least religious country in the world.\nThe results of the 2011 census, however, have been criticized as questionable on a number of grounds, and have been said to drastically underrepresent the number of Orthodox, Bektashi and irreligious Albanians, with problems including whole communities reporting that they had not been contacted, workers filling out questions without even asking the respondents and a drastic difference between the final results and the preliminary results with regard to religion (which showed over 70% declining to answer the question about religion).\n\nFor part of its history, Albania has also had a Jewish community. Members of the Jewish community were saved by a group of Albanians during the Nazi occupation. Many left for Israel c. 1990–1992 when the borders were opened after the fall of the communist regime, but about 200 Jews still live in Albania.\n\nA modest amount of literature written by early Albanians was about religious themes. The earliest known use of written Albanian is a baptismal formula (1462) written by the Archbishop of Durrës Paulus Angelus. In 1555, a Catholic clergyman Gjon Buzuku from the Shestan region published the earliest known book written in Albanian titled \"Meshari\" (The Missal) regarding Catholic prayers and rites containing archaic medieval language, lexemes and expressions obsolete in contemporary Albanian. Other Christian clergy such as Luca Matranga in the Arbëresh diaspora published (1592) in the Tosk dialect while other notable authors were from northern Albanian lands and included Pjetër Budi, Frang Bardhi, and Pjetër Bogdani. With the conversion to Islam of many Albanians, Muslim poetic and other literary traditions were adopted giving rise to authors such as the \"Bejtexhinj\" (Albanian poets) and included individuals like Nezim Frakulla, Hasan Zyko Kamberi, Muhamet Kyçyku, and brothers Shahin and Dalip Frashëri. They compiled Albanian literature infused with expressions, language and themes stemming from the Middle East and their local socio-cultural environment. Albanian literature was composed in the Arbëresh diaspora by individuals such as Giulio Variboba, Nicola Chetta, Giuseppe Schirò, Giuseppe Serembe, Girolamo de Rada and others relating to religious, secular, poetic and eventually patriotic themes like Skanderbeg. From the 19th century \"Rilindja\" (Albanian national awakening), a corpus of Albanian literature with patriotic and other themes emerged calling for Albanian unity, self-determination and celebrating Albanian culture, language, legends and other figures of sociopoltical, cultural and historic importance. Figures who left their mark during this period were the poet brothers Naim and Sami Frashëri, Pashko Vasa, Luigj Gurakuqi and others.\n\nAlbanian independence (1912) until the advent of the Second World War marked a transition from patriotic and political Rilindja related literature to more distinctive, expressive and matured forms of Albanian literature, prose and poetry focusing upon additional themes of contemporary life. Andon Zako Çajupi, Ndre Mjeda, Faik Konitza, Fan Noli who translated many foreign works into Albanian, Gjergj Fishta who composed the epic the \"Highland Lute\", Ernest Koliqi, modernist poets Migjeni and Lasgush Poradeci and others. Albania, post World War Two emerged as a communist state and Socialist realism became part of the literary scene. Authors and poets emerged such as Sejfulla Malëshova, Dritero Agolli and Ismail Kadare who has become an internationally acclaimed novelist and others who challenged the regime through various sociopolitical and historic themes in their works. Martin Camaj wrote in the diaspora while in neighbouring Yugoslavia, the emergence of Albanian cultural expression resulted in sociopolitical and poetic literature by notable authors like Adem Demaçi, Rexhep Qosja, Jusuf Buxhovi. The Albanian literary scene at the beginning of the 21st century remains vibrant producing new novelists, authors, poets and other writers.\n\nAlbanian folk music displays a variety of influences. Albanian folk music traditions differ by region, with major stylistic differences between the traditional music of the Ghegs in the north and Tosks in the south. Modern popular music has developed around the centers of Korca, Shkodër and Tirana. Since the 1920s, some composers such as Fan S. Noli have also produced works of Albanian classical music.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45188036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45188036", "title": "Angel Goodrich", "text": "Angel Goodrich\n\nAngel Goodrich (born February 24, 1990) is an American former professional basketball player, who played for the Tulsa Shock and Seattle Storm in the WNBA.\n\nGoodrich was born in Glendale, Arizona to Jonathan and Fayth (Goodrich) Lewis. Jonathan is African-American; Fayth is Native American (Cherokee). Goodrich herself is an enrolled member of the Cherokee Nation.\nGoodrich has two siblings, an older brother Zach Goodrich, and a younger sister Nikki Lewis. Lewis played college basketball for the Tabor Bluejays.\n\nGoodrich attended Sequoyah High School in Tahlequah, Oklahoma, where she was the first Division I athletic scholarship recipient in the school's history. During her 4 years at the Cherokee-operated school, she lettered in basketball, softball and track and field, and earned All-State honors as a sprinter. She also led the school's basketball team, the Sequoyah Lady Indians, to three consecutive Class AAA state titles.\n\nGoodrich played her college basketball for the Kansas Jayhawks at the University of Kansas. In her freshman year, she tore the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in her left knee, causing her to miss the entire season. The following year she tore the ACL in her right knee after only 15 games. Despite these setbacks, she still scored over 1,000 career points for KU, and became the Jayhawks' all-time career assists leader. Her assists total of 771 ranks as the third-highest in Big 12 Conference history.\n\nIn her senior year, Goodrich was a finalist for the Naismith Award, Wade Trophy, Wooden Award, Nancy Lieberman Award, and the USBWA Ann Meyers Drysdale Award. She also earned First Team All-Big 12 honors, and was a member of the WBCA All-Region 5 Team.\n\nSource\n\nIn 2013, Goodrich was selected in the third round of the WNBA draft (29th pick overall) by the Tulsa Shock. At the time she was the highest-drafted Native American player in the history of the WNBA. During the 2013-14 off-season, she played for Chevakata Vologda in the Russian Premier League. In 2014, she completed her second and final season for the Shock. In 2015, she was picked up on waivers by the Seattle Storm. In September 2015 Goodrich registered the first double-double (12 points, 10 rebounds) in her three-year WNBA career.\n\n"}
{"id": "55374798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55374798", "title": "Anna Šabatová", "text": "Anna Šabatová\n\nAnna Šabatová (born 23 June 1951) is a Czech politician, who is the current ombudsman of the Czech Republic. She was a signatory to Charter 77 and its spokesperson in 1986. Šabatová was awarded the United Nations Prize in the Field of Human Rights in 1998. She received the Czech Medal of Merit (First Grade) in 2002. In 2014, Šabatová was elected as the ombudsman of the Czech Republic, replacing Pavel Varvařovský.\n"}
{"id": "21586320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21586320", "title": "Anthony J. Motley", "text": "Anthony J. Motley\n\nReverend Anthony J. Motley is an American religious and community leader from Southeast Washington, D.C.\n\nHe received his formal education in the District of Columbia Public Schools, graduating from the Anacostia High School. He served two tours of duty with US military. Motley earned a Master of Divinity from the Howard University School of Divinity, and a Bachelor of Arts in Communications from the University of Detroit.\n\nIn 2001 Reverend Motley worked to form what is now the J.O.B.S. Coalition of Greater Washington.\n\n"}
{"id": "156432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156432", "title": "Arthur Brown (musician)", "text": "Arthur Brown (musician)\n\nArthur Wilton Brown (born 24 June 1942) is an English rock singer and songwriter best known for his flamboyant theatrical performances, and his powerful, wide-ranging operatic voice. He has been a significant influence on a wide range of musicians due to his operatic vocal style, wild stage persona and concepts, and is considered a pioneer of shock rock and progressive rock and influential on heavy metal music.\n\nBrown has been lead singer of various groups, most notably the Crazy World of Arthur Brown and Kingdom Come, followed by a varied solo career as well as associations with Hawkwind, the Who, Jimi Hendrix, Klaus Schulze and Frank Zappa. He is best known for his 1968 single \"Fire\", reaching number one in the UK Singles Chart and Canada, and number two on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nFollowing the success of the single \"Fire\", the press would often refer to Brown as \"The God of Hellfire\", in reference to the opening shouted line of the song, a moniker that exists to this day.\n\nBrown was born in Whitby where his parents ran a guest house. After attending Roundhay Grammar School in Leeds, Yorkshire, he attended the University of London and the University of Reading and studied philosophy and law, but he gravitated to music instead, forming his first band, Blues and Brown, while at Reading. After a spell fronting a number of bands in London, Brown then moved to Paris in 1966, where he worked on his theatrical skills. During this period he recorded two songs for the Roger Vadim film of the Émile Zola novel \"La Curée\". Returning to London around the turn of 1966 to 1967, he was a temporary member of a London-based R&B/soul/ska group the Ramong Sound that would soon become the hit-making soul group the Foundations.\n\nBy the time the Foundations had been signed to Pye Records, Brown had left the group to form his own band, the Crazy World of Arthur Brown. The band included Vincent Crane (Hammond organ and piano), Drachen Theaker (drums), and Nick Greenwood (bass). Brown quickly earned a reputation for outlandish performances, which included the use of a burning metal helmet, that led to occasional mishaps, such as during an early appearance at the Windsor Festival in 1967, where he wore a colander on his head soaked in methanol. The fuel poured over his head by accident caught fire; a bystander doused the flames by pouring beer on Brown's head, preventing any serious injury. The flaming head then became an Arthur Brown signature. On occasion he also stripped naked while performing, most notably at the Palermo Pop 70 Festival in Sicily, Italy, July 1970, where he was arrested and deported. He was also notable for the extreme make-up he wore onstage, which would later be reflected in the stage acts of Alice Cooper and Kiss. He was also famed for his powerful operatic baritone voice and his high pitched screams.\n\nBy 1968, the debut album, \"The Crazy World of Arthur Brown\" became a hit on both sides of the Atlantic. Produced by the Who's manager Kit Lambert, and executive-produced by Pete Townshend on Track Records, the label begun by Lambert and Chris Stamp, it spun off an equally surprising hit single, \"Fire\", and contained a version of \"I Put a Spell on You\" by Screamin' Jay Hawkins, a similarly bizarre showman. \"Fire\" sold over one million copies, and was awarded a gold disc. The song has since seen its opening line \"I am the God of Hellfire\" sampled in numerous other places, most notably in the Prodigy's 1992 rave anthem \"Fire\".\n\nIn the late 1960s, the Crazy World of Arthur Brown's popularity was such that the group shared bills with the Who, Jimi Hendrix, the Mothers of Invention, the Doors, the Small Faces, and Joe Cocker, among others. Theaker was replaced because of his aviophobia in 1968 by drummer Carl Palmer, later of Atomic Rooster and Emerson, Lake & Palmer, for the band's second American tour in 1969, on which keyboardist Vincent Crane also left – although he soon returned. However, Crane and Palmer eventually left in June 1969 to form Atomic Rooster, spelling the end for the Crazy World of Arthur Brown.\n\nThough Brown never released another recording as commercially successful as \"Fire\", he worked with a varied group of musicians on projects called Strangelands, Puddletown Express, and (briefly) the Captain Beefheart-influenced Rustic Hinge, before releasing three albums with his new band Kingdom Come in the early 1970s. \nThe three Kingdom Come albums each have a distinctive character. The first was a highly complex concept album apparently on the theme of humanity living in a zoo and being controlled by cosmic, religious and commercial forces. The second was loosely on the theme of water, which Brown had declared four years earlier would be the subject of the second album by the Crazy World. It was musically more conventional than the first, much less heavy, though stranger in places. The third album, \"Journey\" (1973), recorded in Rockfield Studios in Wales, was a space rock album, with Brown playing an early drum machine and thereby replacing a series of drummers. The band also recorded three of its songs in a live Peel Session for the John Peel BBC Radio 1 show on 25 September 1972. Richie Unterberger of Allmusic said that the album has been \"most noted in retrospect as one of the first rock records to use a drum machine, which was still quite a novelty back in 1973.\" Brown recalled \"the whole album is based around the drum machine, and we had a lot of ideas that we wanted to explore using this technology. The drum machine they used was the Bentley Rhythm Ace, the British version of the FR-1.\n\nThe stage acts for all three albums featured a wild mix of special effects, dramatic costumes and colourful theatrics, which were sometimes controversial. Brown had declared when Kingdom Come was formed that the intention was to create a multi-media experience and the band always followed that policy. The concepts, the music and the theatrics proved very popular on the university circuit but proved too way-out for a mainstream audience. The band appeared at the 1971 Glastonbury Festival in Somerset, England and featured in the Glastonbury Fayre film which was shown in cinemas.\n\nIn later years, Brown released several solo albums. In 1975, he appeared in the Who's rock opera movie \"Tommy\" as \"The Priest\". Later that year he contributed vocals to the song \"The Tell-Tale Heart\" on the Poe-based concept album \"Tales of Mystery and Imagination\" by the Alan Parsons Project. In 1979 and 1980, he collaborated with German electronic musician Klaus Schulze, and can be heard on the albums \"Dune\", \"...Live...\" and \"Time Actor\".\n\nIn the 1980s, Brown moved to Austin, Texas, where his wife came from, and obtained a master's degree in counselling. On 17 January 1987, Brown performed \"Fire\" on the \"Flashback\" segment of the television programme \"Solid Gold\". Together with former Mothers of Invention drummer Jimmy Carl Black, he also became a painter and carpenter for some years, and released an album with him, \"Brown, Black & Blue\" (1988). In 1992, Brown and fellow counsellor Jim Maxwell founded Healing Songs Therapy, a service that culminated in Brown creating a song for each client about their emotional issues.\n\nBrown returned to England in 1996. In 1997, he re-recorded \"Fire\" with German band Die Krupps, while in 1998, he provided a spoken-word performance on Bruce Dickinson's \"The Chemical Wedding\" album, reading a portion of three poems by William Blake, and appeared as Satan in Dickinson's music video for \"Killing Floor\". He was narrator for the Pretty Things' live performance of their album \"S. F. Sorrow\" (1998) at Abbey Road Studios. He also appeared on television, guesting on Kula Shaker track \"Mystical Machine Gun\" several times during 1999.\n\nA further change of musical direction occurred, when he formed an acoustic band and went on tour with Tim Rose in 1999. This band then added Stan Adler (cello and bass) and Malcolm Mortimore (percussion) and produced the album \"Tantric Lover\" (2000). However, the lineup did not last, and Brown put a new band together with guitarist Rikki Patten and multi-instrumentalist Nick Pynn. In 2002, Brown was asked to support Robert Plant on his Dreamland Tour. By now Patten had been replaced by guitarist Chris Bryant. Brown was getting some more media exposure now. His band was briefly called the Giant Pocket Orchestra, and also Instant Flight. In the middle of this, in 2003, Brown released \"Vampire Suite\" (2003), an album with Josh Philips and Mark Brzezicki of the band Big Country, released on Ian Grant's Track Records. Also around this time, Brown's back catalogue was re-released by Sanctuary Records.\n\nBrown reunited the surviving members of Kingdom Come (except Des Fisher) in 2005, for a one-off concert at The Astoria in London, performing material from Kingdom Come's album \"Galactic Zoo Dossier\", with an encore of \"Spirit of Joy\". This show won Brown the 'Showman of the Year' award from \"Classic Rock\" magazine, with Brown receiving the award at the Classic Rock Roll of Honour Awards ceremony held in London's Café de Paris. In 2007, Brown and Pynn released \"Voice of Love\" on the Côte Basque record label, featuring a number of original recordings.\n\nIn August 2007, during a concert in Lewes, East Sussex, England, Brown once again set fire to his own hair. While trying to extinguish the flames, Phil Rhodes, a member of the band also caught fire. Brown carried on after the fire was put out; he had however lost a few chunks of hair. He appeared as a priest in the video for the Darkness song, \"Is It Just Me?\". In 2009, a roll-out re-release of Brown's back catalogue was commenced by Cherry Red Records' subsidiary Lemon Recordings and continued from 2010 onwards on their sister label Esoteric Recordings.\n\nIn 2010, Brown played a set at the Glastonbury Festival in the Glade. On 10 June 2011, days before his 69th birthday, he played at the Ray Davies Meltdown Festival at the Queen Elizabeth Hall, London where he invited Z-Star to duet with him. Six weeks later, again in London, he played the High Voltage Festival; the gig was recorded and released (on vinyl only) as \"The Crazy World of Arthur Brown Live at High Voltage\". In 2012, Brown and Rick Patten released \"The Magic Hat\" alongside a comic of the same title by Matt Howarth – a curious, cross-dimensional adventure facilitated by a flaming helmet. In 2013, as the result of a successful pledge campaign on PledgeMusic, Brown released the album \"Zim Zam Zim\" based on the cosmos having recorded it in his yurt in Lewes. On 2 July 2017, the Crazy World of Arthur Brown performed at the Royal Albert Hall's Elgar Room.\n\nThough Brown has had limited commercial success and has never released another recording as commercially successful as \"Fire\", he has been a significant influence on Alice Cooper, David Bowie, Peter Gabriel, Marilyn Manson, George Clinton, Kiss, King Diamond, Rob Halford of Judas Priest and Bruce Dickinson of Iron Maiden, among others, and his songs have been covered or sampled by a range of artists including Ozzy Osbourne, the Prodigy, Marilyn Manson and the Who.\n\nBrown's voice, and in particular his high banshee screams, are a precursor to the banshee screaming of many later heavy metal singers, and his theatrical concepts and stage presence such as the face makeup, especially his black and white face paint (corpse paint), voodoo dancing, and flaming helmet pioneered a lot of what was to become shock rock and progressive rock. The third and final Kingdom Come album, \"Journey\" (1973), is noteworthy for being one of the first rock albums to feature a drum machine, especially on the track \"Time Captives\".\n\nBrown has had a number of associations with Hawkwind. In 1973, he was one of the performers on Robert Calvert's album \"Captain Lockheed and the Starfighters\", together with a number of other Hawkwind members.\n\nIn 2001 and 2002, Brown made several guest appearances at live Hawkwind concerts, subsequently touring with them as a guest vocalist. On their December 2002 tour, Hawkwind played several songs by Brown from the Kingdom Come era, along with \"Song of the Gremlin\", which Brown had sung on \"Captain Lockheed and the Starfighters\"; this was documented on the Hawkwind DVD \"Out of the Shadows\".\n\nBrown also provided vocals on two of the tracks on Hawkwind's studio album \"Take Me to Your Leader\", released in 2005. One is the spoken-word \"A Letter to Robert\", where Brown recalls a conversation with Robert Calvert. Brown continued his association with Hawkwind, touring with a support set for them on their 40th anniversary tour in the United Kingdom in 2009. In 2018, Brown was a guest vocalist on the first five dates of Hawkwind’s UK tour.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMarshall, Polly. \"The God of Hellfire, the Crazy Life and Times of Arthur Brown.\" SAF Publishing, 2005. .\n"}
{"id": "41894212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41894212", "title": "Atima Srivastava", "text": "Atima Srivastava\n\nAtima Srivastava (born 1961 in Mumbai, India) is an author and director who lives in London. She has written short stories, authored two books, and has done multiple film directing and editing projects. Srivastava has won several awards for her work in film and literature. She also teaches and designs creative writing programs in universities throughout Europe.\n\nAtima Srivastava was born in Mumbai, India in 1961. When she was eight years old, she moved to London with her family, where she still lives today.\n\nSrivastava attended the Moat Mount School, now the Mill Hill County High School, in the 1970s. In 1980 she entered the University of Essex where she earned her bachelor's degree in 1983.\n\nSrivastava wrote her first novel, \"Transmission\", in 1992. The story follows a young semi-autobiographibcal Anglo-Indian woman named Angie, who, much like Srivastava, works as a film producer. The book focuses on the relationships that Angie has with her parents, an old-fashioned and authoritarian Indian couple, and with Lol and Kathi, an HIV-positive couple about whom she wants to make a documentary and with whom she has a romantic affair. The title comes from the book's examination of several forms of transmission, the transmission of Indian culture and lifestyle into modern London and of sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nIn 2000 Srivastava published her second book, \"Looking for Maya\". The plot tells of another young Anglo-Indian woman, Mira, who works as an author in London. Mira is forced to overcome issues of identity, love, tradition, and modernity as she attempts to find meaning while switching from one romantic entanglement to another. Both novels have protagonists who, instead of spiralling into an existential identity crisis over nationality and culture choose to focus on minor events in the characters' lives and their relation to a greater pursuit for love, success, and happiness.\n\nSrivastava also written several short stories which have been published in anthologies such as \"New Writing 2001\", \"Well-Sorted\", and \"Tran-Lit\".\n\nShe is working on a third novel titled \"The Non-Resident Indian\".\n\nSince 1985, Srivastava has worked as a film editor and director. In 1993 she helped produce a TV documentary \"Moving Pictures\" which is a journalism series reporting on global cinema. She also has written three TV-movie screenplays, \"Dancing in the Dark\" and \"The Legendary Vindaloo\" for Channel 4, and \"Camden Story\" for the BBC. In addition, the National Theatre Company commissioned her to write a play titled \"Why Not Love?\" which premiered in 2001.\n\nSrivastava has done a significant amount of work as a lecturer and curriculum designer for both British and European universities. In 2000 she worked as a lecturer at the New York University-London program where she taught creative writing and at CAPA International Education where she taught a course called Writing the City in addition to creative writing. She also taught various writing and film technique and development courses at IES Abroad between 2002 and 2007 and taught creative writing at the University of Greenwich from 2007 to 2009. \nHer books have been studied at universities in Poland, Spain, and Russia.\n\nShe was also the British author-in-residence at the Universities of Singapore, Sophia in Bulgaria, Mumbai, Berne, Cologne, Mainz, Ewha in Seoul, Connecticut College (USA) and Warwick University.\n\nSrivastava has won several awards for film and literature. She won the Bridgeport Short Story Prize in 1994 for her short story \"Dragons in E8\". She has won two Arts Council Writers' Awards, one in 1998 for her book \"Looking for Maya\", and one in 2000 for her unreleased third book. Also in 2000 she received the Hawthornden Fellowship and was a finalist at the London Writers' Competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "39078535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39078535", "title": "Bo Jiang (NASA researcher)", "text": "Bo Jiang (NASA researcher)\n\nBo Jiang, a contract researcher working on \"source code for high technology imaging\" at NASA's Langley Research Center, was arrested under a charge of lying to federal officer on March 16, 2013 at Dulles International Airport on his planned one-way journey to return to China. He was accused of espionage by Representative Frank Wolf, and was investigated for possible violations of the Arms Export Control Act. An affidavit claimed that on a prior occasion, Jiang had taken a NASA laptop containing sensitive information to China.\n\nJiang was released on May 2, 2013, after a plea agreement in which he admitted guilt to a single charge of misuse of Federal office equipment to download copyrighted movies, television shows and pornography.\n\nOn March 28, 2013, a U.S. Judge ordered Jiang released after a federal prosecutor acknowledged there was no evidence that he possessed any sensitive, secret or classified material.\nJiang's lawyer said congressman Wolf was making his client a \"scapegoat\" and the subject of witch hunt.\n\nOn May 2, 2013, prosecutors dropped a felony charge of lying to federal investigators. Jiang pleaded guilty to a single misdemeanor count of misusing government office equipment and was sentenced to time served - about seven weeks. In his plea agreement, Jiang acknowledged violating a NASA regulation governing use of government office equipment by downloading copyrighted movies, television shows and sexually explicit images on the NASA-owned laptop.\n\nOn October 26, 2015 Congressman John Culberson announced the indictment of two Langley Research Center supervisors, accusing them of complicity in \"espionage\" in the affair. However no evidence of espionage was ever presented.\n"}
{"id": "1193824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1193824", "title": "Bob Hope Humanitarian Award", "text": "Bob Hope Humanitarian Award\n\nThe Bob Hope Humanitarian Award was established in 2002 by the Board of Governors of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences in recognition of Bob Hope's trailblazing career. The award, one of the highest honors presented by the Board, recognizes the contributions accomplished by Hope, for more than half a century, to the growth and development of broadcasting in radio and television as a family medium, and as a platform for political and social commentary.\n\n"}
{"id": "10496231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10496231", "title": "Carole Ferrier", "text": "Carole Ferrier\n\nCarole Ferrier is an Australian feminist academic. She is Professor in English at the School of English, Media Studies and Art History at the University of Queensland. She has many published works about feminism, socialism, literature and culture. She has been the editor of the radical feminist academic journal \"Hecate\" since its inception in 1975.\n\nFerrier was awarded a Bachelor of Arts Degree with Honours in London, and a PhD in New Zealand, at the University of Auckland. Ferrier helped establish the International Socialist Tendency in Australia in the 1970s, and was a prominent activist in various democratic rights struggles in Queensland from the 1970s.\n\nFerrier has lectured in English at the University of Queensland since 1973. She is currently Professor of Literature and Women's Studies at the School of Communication and Arts at the University of Queensland. Ferrier is also the Director of the Women, Gender, Culture and Social Change Research Group at the University of Queensland, a former president of the Australian Women's Studies Association and editor of \"Hecate\" and the \"Australian Women's Book Review\".\n\nAmongst her many other published works, Ferrier has authored \"Jean Devanny: Romantic Revolutionary\" (Melbourne University Press, 1999).\n\nShe has also edited\n\nFerrier's 1992 book Gender, Politics and Fiction was criticised as using orthodox Marxist doctrine, the phenomenology of Feyerabend and Thomas Kuhn, the post-structuralist work of Jacques Derrida and Gilles Deleuze into an \"epistemic certainty\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1429506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1429506", "title": "Carroll A. Campbell Jr.", "text": "Carroll A. Campbell Jr.\n\nCarroll Ashmore Campbell Jr. (July 24, 1940December 7, 2005), was an American Republican Party politician who served as the 112th Governor of South Carolina from 1987 to 1995. Prior to this, he served as a member of the South Carolina Senate representing the 2nd district from 1977 to 1978 and as a congressman representing South Carolina's 4th congressional district from 1979 to 1987.\n\nHe was born in Greenville, South Carolina, the oldest of six children. His father, Carroll Campbell Sr., worked in the textile mills and the furniture business, and later owned a motel in Garden City, South Carolina.\n\nCampbell grew up in Greenville and the nearby small towns of Liberty and Simpsonville. He attended Greenville Senior High School, dropping out during a period that \"The Greenville News\" characterized as an \"unsettled adolescence amid a disintegrating family\"; his uncle then enrolled him at the private McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tennessee. He attended the University of South Carolina at Columbia but withdrew because of financial concerns and later graduated with a Master of Arts degree from American University. While a student at South Carolina, he became a member of the Sigma chapter of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity.\n\nCampbell served in the South Carolina House of Representatives from 1970 to 1974 during the administration of Governor John C. West, who defeated Republican nominee Albert Watson, the choice of U.S. Senator Strom Thurmond, in the 1970 general election. With Lee Atwater as a key political strategist, he made an unsuccessful bid for lieutenant governor in 1974 on the ticket headed by Republican James B. Edwards of Charleston. While Edwards was elected, Campbell lost to the Democrat Brantley Harvey; despite the loss Campbell would continue to seek Atwater's counsel throughout his career.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1978, during the Edwards administration, he served in the South Carolina Senate. In between his two stints in the General Assembly, he served as executive assistant to Governor Edwards. In 1978, Campbell won election to the United States House of Representatives from the Greenville-based South Carolina's 4th congressional district; he defeated Max Heller, the Democratic mayor of Greenville and an emigrant from Austria, to fill the seat vacated by the retiring James Mann. Campbell hence became the first Republican to hold the 4th district seat since Reconstruction.\nCampbell served as state campaign chairman for Ronald Reagan's presidential campaign in 1980 and 1984, and as southern regional chairman for George Herbert Walker Bush's presidential campaign in 1988.\n\nAs governor, Campbell coordinated the state's response to Hurricane Hugo in 1989. Campbell was also known for his role in luring BMW to build its first U.S. manufacturing facility in Greer, South Carolina. In recognition of his role, in 2002 it was announced that BMW had donated $10 million for a facility at the site of Clemson University’s International Center for Automotive Research. Like nearly all such large donations, it came with naming rights: the company chose to call the new facility the Carroll A. Campbell Jr. Graduate Engineering Center.\n\nWhen Campbell was governor, the state was confronted with two major controversies shaking taxpayers' confidence in the trustworthiness of public officials. Allegations of financial mismanagement at the University of South Carolina led to university president James B. Holderman's resignation. Operation Lost Trust, a federal investigation of bribery and drug use allegations against members of the South Carolina legislature, led to convictions of twenty-seven legislators, lobbyists and others in a vote-buying scandal.\n\nDuring 1993–1994, Campbell was the chairman of the National Governors Association.\n\nTerm limits prevented him from seeking a third term in the 1994 election. He left office with an unprecedented job approval rating of 72 percent.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2001, Campbell was a Washington, D.C. lobbyist, serving as president and CEO of the American Council of Life Insurers. Campbell briefly considered running for U.S. President in 1996, but concluded that the fundraising hurdles were too high.\n\nFollowing his decision not to run for president that year, Campbell was mentioned as a possible vice presidential running mate for Bob Dole but was ultimately passed over in favor of Jack Kemp, the former U.S. Representative from New York's 31st congressional district and later the United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under the first President Bush.\n\nIn 1998, Campbell and former South Carolina First Lady Lois Rhame West became the co-chairs of Winthrop University's first capital campaign. Under Campbell and West, the campaign raised more than $30 million.\n\nCampbell eloped with Iris Faye Rhodes in 1959. They had two sons, Carroll Campbell III, and Mike Campbell, the former of whom unsuccessfully sought the 2010 Republican nomination for SC's 1st congressional district to succeed Representative Henry Brown; and the latter of whom was an unsuccessful candidate for Lieutenant Governor of South Carolina in 2006. The family owns franchises for Wendy's restaurants in South Carolina.\n\nIn October 2001, aged 61, Campbell was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. The revelation forced him to abandon plans to run for governor again in 2002. He was admitted to a long-term residential treatment facility for Alzheimer's patients in August 2005. He died of a heart attack on December 7, 2005 at Lexington Medical Center in West Columbia. After lying in state at the State House, he was eulogized at memorial services at Trinity Episcopal Cathedral in Columbia and at All Saints Episcopal Church in Pawleys Island. He was buried in the church cemetery of All Saints Episcopal Church.\n\nUpon Campbell's death, David Wilkins, U.S. Ambassador to Canada and former Speaker of the South Carolina House of Representatives, described him as \"the master architect\" of the South Carolina Republican Party's speedy rise to dominance.\n\nSouth Carolina Governor, 1986\n\nSouth Carolina Governor, 1990\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "18868170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18868170", "title": "Cosimo Commisso (mobster)", "text": "Cosimo Commisso (mobster)\n\nCosimo Commisso (born 6 February 1950 in Siderno), also known as \"the quail\" (\"'u quagghia\"), is an Italian criminal and a member of the 'Ndrangheta, a mafia-type organization in Calabria. He belongs to and was the boss of the Commisso 'ndrina based in Siderno with his cousin Antonio Commisso and his brother Rocco Commisso.\n\nHe took over the reins of the clan from his father Francesco Commisso, who had been the right-hand man of the historical 'Ndrangheta boss of Siderno, Antonio Macrì.\n\nThe Commisso 'ndrina has a branch in Canada, in the Greater Toronto Area, which is part of the wider Siderno Group.\n\nIn the 1980s the Buffalo crime family also operated in Toronto and Hamilton, and hired Satan's Choice MC hitman Cecil Kirby to kill Pietro Scarcella and Paul Volpe in an arrangement with Rocco Remo and Cosimo Commisso to gain more control of the market. However, the plot was foiled when Kirby turned Royal Canadian Mounted Police informant.\n\nHe is described as the most notorious member of the group and its former leader, and is currently serving a life sentence in Italy for his involvement with the 'Ndrangheta. The cousin of \"The Quail\", Antonio Commisso, was on the list of most wanted fugitives in Italy until his capture on June 28, 2005, in Woodbridge.\n\nOn June 28, 2018, Cosimo Ernesto Commisso, of Woodbridge, Ontario and an unrelated female were shot and killed. According to sources contacted by the Toronto Star, \"Commisso was related to \"The Quail\" of Siderno, Italy, who has had relations in Ontario, is considered by police to be a \"'Ndrangheta organized crime boss\". The National Post reported that Cosimo Ernesto Commisso, while not a known criminal, \"shares a name and family ties with a man who has for decades been reputed to be a Mafia leader in the Toronto area\".\n"}
{"id": "2276568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276568", "title": "Curtis Howe Springer", "text": "Curtis Howe Springer\n\nCurtis Howe Springer (December 2, 1896 – August 19, 1985) was an American radio evangelist, self-proclaimed medical doctor and Methodist minister best known for founding the Zzyzx Mineral Springs resort located within Southern California's Mojave Desert. He was also the host of well-known evangelical syndicated radio programs that were broadcast throughout the United States for several decades.\n\nSpringer was in actuality neither a doctor nor a minister, and he described himself as the \"last of the old-time medicine men.\" In 1969, the American Medical Association labeled him the \"King of Quacks\". In the early 1970s, the federal government discovered that Springer held no legal rights to the land where Zzyzx stood; consequently, he was evicted from the space and briefly imprisoned.\n\nCurtis Howe Springer was born December 2, 1896, and hailed from Wheeling, West Virgina. He was married to Mary Louise Berkebile. They separated at some point, and he married a woman named Helen. Springer had several children, including a daughter, Marilou, and a son, Curtis Jr., who later became a judge in Montgomery, Alabama.\n\nHe claimed to have been a private in the United States Army, where he taught boxing. In Springer's early life, he \"drummed up crowds for William Jennings Bryan's tirades against demon rum\" and was a sheet music vendor at Billy Sunday's evangelical services. Following World War I, Springer worked at a school in Florida. In the late 1920s, Springer moved to Chicago, where he became involved with an automotive technical school called Greer College. Springer was fired by 1930, and the school was forced into bankruptcy shortly afterward.\n\nThroughout the 1930s, Curtis Springer gave lectures throughout the midwestern United States, claiming to either to be the \"Dean of Greer College\", or that he represented/attended the fictional institutions of the National Academy, The Springer School of Humanism, the American College of Doctors and Surgeons, the Westlake West Virginia College, and two non-existent osteopathy schools in Meyersdale, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Although all his lectures were \"free\", Springer would ask for donations part-way through his speech, and often attempt to sell audience members private courses in psychoanalysis for $25 per session. In advertisements for his appearances, he would often follow his name with M.D., N.D., D.O. or Ph.D.\n\nChicago was largely Springer's home base until the summer of 1934. After he applied for airtime on WGN radio, the station contacted American Medical Association's Bureau of Investigations for information regarding Springer. The AMA and Better Business Bureau quickly began to take note of his completely falsified education record. Before long, Springer had been labeled as a notorious fraud and doctor-impersonator by the medical community. An extensive article in the September 14, 1936 edition of \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" titled \"Curtis Howe Springer: A Quack and His Nostrums\" detailed his exploits and lack of education. The book concluded that \"a most thorough search fails to show that Springer was ever graduated by any reputable college or university, medical or otherwise.\"\n\nAlthough denied airtime on WGN, he was successful in obtaining a twice-daily slot as a radio evangelist on Chicago's WCFL. He began broadcasting on the station in 1934. His programs were often an outlet for his support of Franklin Roosevelt and The New Deal. In addition, he would often use the radio show to sell his \"medicines\", including the antacid Re-Hib (confirmed by the American Medical Association to be mostly baking soda) and Antediluvian Tea (\"a crude mixture of laxative herbs\").\n\nAround 1935, Springer left Chicago and began preaching on KDKA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nSpringer's wife Mary encouraged him to try to launch a health spa and in 1931, he launched a resort called Haven of Rest in Fort Hill, Pennsylvania. Only six years after it first opened, he lost Haven of Rest due to non-payment of taxes. He attempted to set up other resorts and gatherings in Wilkes-Barre, Johnstown, and Mount Davis in Pennsylvania; Cumberland, Maryland; and Davenport, Iowa.\nIn 1944, Springer and his new fiancée Helen filed a mining claim on federal land to 12,800 acres (51.8 km²) in California's Mojave Desert, claiming a tract about 8 miles (13 km) long and 3 miles (4.8 km) wide. The land contained the remains of an 1860 Army post and a railroad station on the defunct Tonopah and Tidewater Railroad. He named the settlement Zzyzx as a gimmick to ensure that it would be \"the last word\" in health. Zzyzx's original encampment consisted of 20 tents, and he recruited homeless men from Los Angeles' Skid Row to build simple concrete buildings. Springer created an imitation hot springs – which he attempted to pass off as genuine – by using a boiler to heat several pools. In time, Springer erected a sixty-room hotel, a church, a cross-shaped health spa with mineral baths, a radio broadcast studio, a private airstrip dubbed \"Zyport\" and several other buildings which included a castle. The \"Boulevard of Dreams\" was a divided parkway leading to an oasis on Lake Tuendae, later identified as the habitat of the endangered Mohave chub. While building his retreat, he spent half the week in Los Angeles, still recording his radio program, and rounding up workers to build his new resort by offering room and board at Zzyzx in exchange for labor.\n\nFrom Zzyzx, Springer continued his syndicated radio program, at one point carried by 221 stations in the United States and 102 more abroad, mixing religious music and his own radio evangelism. Along with this came his requests that listeners send him \"donations\" to get his special cures for everything from hair loss to cancer. The potions were actually little more than a blend of celery, carrot and parsley juices. The Zzyzx Springs experience itself included goat milk; allegedly life-prolonging \"Antedeluvian Tea\"; a $25, self-administered hemorrhoid cure; more solicitations for \"donations\"; and a twice-daily sermon over the loudspeakers.\n\nBy the late 1960s, Springer had begun marking off lots on the land and allowing \"donors\" of large sums of money to his ministry to build homes on the lots. This caught the attention of federal officials. While Springer had posted mining claims in the area, under the General Mining Law of 1872, it was still public land until such time that he validated the claims for patent by proving to federal government geologists that the claim contained minerals that could be extracted at a profit.\n\nThe federal government took Springer to court claiming he was squatting on federal land. In 1974, he was found guilty of the charge. He offered to pay $34,187 in back rent on the land to the Bureau of Land Management, but the government refused the payment and evicted him and his few hundred local followers. Springer was also convicted for making false claims that the health foods he sold would cure everything \"from sore toes to cancer.\" He was represented in court by criminal attorney Gladys Towles Root. In the trial, Springer was convicted of false advertising. He filed several appeals on this conviction, and two years later ended up serving 49 days of a 60-day sentence.\n\nFollowing the eviction, in 1976, the Bureau of Land Management allowed the California State University to manage the facilities and land in and around Zzyzx. A consortium of colleges combined funds and resources to convert the former resort into a research station called the Desert Studies Center; schools contributing to the center included California State Universities at Dominguez Hills, Fullerton, Los Angeles, Long Beach, Pomona and Northridge. After his release from prison, Springer and his wife relocated to Las Vegas, Nevada, where he spent the remainder of his life.\n\nCurtis Springer died in Las Vegas on August 19, 1985, at the age of 88. He was buried in the Riverside National Cemetery in Riverside, California. Two publications, the journal \"\" and the book \"Weird California\", have incorrectly reported Springer's year of death as 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "20865961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20865961", "title": "Daniel Mandl", "text": "Daniel Mandl\n\nDaniel Mandl (April 20, 1891 – March 23, 1945) was a civil engineer, inventor, and a student of anthroposophy.\n\nDaniel Mandl was born in Prostějov, Moravia. He studied engineering at the University of Vienna, Austria. During World War I, he commanded an artillery unit of the Austro-Hungarian Army, and fought in Albania. A decorated officer, he resumed his studies after World War I. Upon graduation, he was employed by the General Electrical Company in Berlin. He was involved in the electrification of Slovakia, and he introduced the then-new technology of arc welding to Czechoslovakia, making improvements to arc welding electrodes. He was a student of anthroposophy.\n\nAfter the annexation of rump Czechoslovakia by Nazi Germany on March 15, 1939, Mandl held a teaching position in the Technical School founded by the Brno Jewish community. He was deported from Brno to the Terezin (Theresienstadt ghetto on March 31, 1942, together with his wife Hajnalka and his son Tommy (Herbert Thomas Mandl). In Terezin, Mandl worked in the Jewish self-administration. He participated in the Jewish cultural life in the ghetto, delivering at least one lecture, titled \"A Chapter from Some Thoughts On the History of Humanity,\" on June 23, 1944.\n\nMandl and his son were deported from Theresienstadt concentration camp to Auschwitz-Birkenau on September 28, 1944. Unbeknownst to his son Tommy at the time, Tommy was the only one selected for the transport but his father volunteered to go with him. From Auschwitz, the Mandls were transported, in turn, to several Dachau-Kaufering subcamps, where Mandl died March 23, 1945, a mere six weeks before the end of World War II (cf. testimonies of his son, Herbert Thomas Mandl).\n\n"}
{"id": "49610717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49610717", "title": "Diana Noel, 2nd Baroness Barham", "text": "Diana Noel, 2nd Baroness Barham\n\nDiana Noel, 2nd Baroness Barham (18 September 1762-12 April 1823) was a peer, philanthropist and an abolitionist who established schools and churches on the Gower Peninsula.\n\nBorn on 18 September 1762 at Barham Court, Teston in Kent, her parents were Margaret (née Gambier) and Charles Middleton, an admiral who was created Baron Barham, of Barham Court and Teston in the County of Kent in May 1805. They were Calvinist Methodists, whose friends included religious writer and philanthropist Hannah More, cleric George Whitefield, and politician and abolitionist William Wilberforce.\n\nShe was married on 21 December 1780 to Gerard Edwardes, who was a Cambridge-educated banker and member of Parliament. In 1798, he inherited the estates of his uncle, Henry Noel, 6th Earl of Gainsborough, and changed his surname to Noel. They had eighteen children, one of whom, Baptist Wriothesley Noel, stated that his parents' home \"combined whig politics, evangelical devotion, aristocratic unconventionality, and strong-mindedness in a potent blend\".\n\nGerard's estates, worth £20,800 a year and consisting of 15,000 acres, were put into trust due to the poor state of financial management by 1816.\n\nWhen her father died in 1813, as the only child, she became 2nd Baroness Barham by a special remainder. That year, having found her husband to be a \"profligate and eccentric husband\", she moved to Fairy Hill, Gower and began funding the construction of free schools as well as four Independent and two Calvinist Methodist churches. She was also an abolitionist and was friends with Samuel Johnson.\n\nShe died at Fairy Hill on 12 April 1823 and was buried at Teston. Her son Charles became Lord Barham. He had the chapels transferred to trustees. Her correspondence is archived with that of the Noel family at the Record Office of Leicestershire, Leicester and Rutland\nand photographs related to her life are held at the Chipping Campden History Society.\n"}
{"id": "224173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224173", "title": "Emanuel Swedenborg", "text": "Emanuel Swedenborg\n\nEmanuel Swedenborg (; ; (born Emanuel Swedberg; 29 January 1688 – 29 March 1772) was a Swedish Lutheran theologian, scientist, philosopher, revelator and mystic who inspired Swedenborgianism. He is best known for his book on the afterlife, \"Heaven and Hell\" (1758).\n\nSwedenborg had a prolific career as an inventor and scientist. In 1741, at 53, he entered into a spiritual phase in which he began to experience dreams and visions, beginning on Easter Weekend, on 6 April 1744. It culminated in a 'spiritual awakening'\nin which he received a revelation that he was appointed by the Lord Jesus Christ to write \"The Heavenly Doctrine\" to reform Christianity. According to \"The Heavenly Doctrine\", the Lord had opened Swedenborg's spiritual eyes so that from then on, he could freely visit heaven and hell to converse with angels, demons and other spirits and the Last Judgment had already occurred the year before, in 1757.\n\nFor the last 28 years of his life, Swedenborg wrote 18 published theological works—and several more that were unpublished. He termed himself a \"Servant of the Lord Jesus Christ\" in \"True Christian Religion\", which he published himself. Some followers of \"The Heavenly Doctrine\" believe that of his theological works, only those that were published by Swedenborg himself are fully divinely inspired. Others have regarded all Swedenborg's theological works as equally inspired, saying for example that the fact that some works were \"not written out in a final edited form for publication does not make a single statement less trustworthy than the statements in any of the other works.\" The General Church of the New Jerusalem is a branch of Christianity that reveres Swedenborg's writings as Divinely inspired.\n\nSwedenborg's father, Jesper Swedberg (1653–1735), descended from a wealthy mining family. The first known paternal ancestor was Otte Persson from Sundborn parish, mentioned 1571.\n\nHe travelled abroad and studied theology, and on returning home, he was eloquent enough to impress the Swedish king, Charles XI, with his sermons in Stockholm. Through the king's influence, he would later become professor of theology at Uppsala University and Bishop of Skara.\n\nJesper took an interest in the beliefs of the dissenting Lutheran Pietist movement, which emphasised the virtues of communion with God rather than relying on sheer faith (\"sola fide\"). \"Sola fide\" is a tenet of the Lutheran Church, and Jesper was charged with being a pietist heretic. While controversial, the beliefs were to have a major impact on his son Emanuel's spirituality. Jesper furthermore held the unconventional belief that angels and spirits were present in everyday life. This also came to have a strong impact on Emanuel.\n\nIn 1703–1709, Swedenborg lived in Erik Benzelius the Younger's house. Swedenborg completed his university course at Uppsala in 1709, and in 1710, he made his grand tour through the Netherlands, France and Germany before reaching London, where he would spend the next four years. It was also a flourishing center of scientific ideas and discoveries. Swedenborg studied physics, mechanics and philosophy and read and wrote poetry. According to the preface of a book by the Swedish critic Olof Lagercrantz, Swedenborg wrote to his benefactor and brother-in-law Benzelius that he believed that Swedenborg might be destined to be a great scientist.\n\nIn 1715 Swedenborg returned to Sweden, where he devoted himself to natural science and engineering projects for the next two decades. A first step was his meeting with King Charles XII of Sweden in the city of Lund, in 1716. The Swedish inventor Christopher Polhem, who became a close friend of Swedenborg, was also present. Swedenborg's purpose was to persuade the king to fund an observatory in northern Sweden. However, the warlike king did not consider this project important enough, but did appoint Swedenborg to be assessor-extraordinary on the Swedish Board of Mines (\"Bergskollegium\") in Stockholm.\n\nFrom 1716 to 1718, Swedenborg published a scientific periodical entitled \"Daedalus Hyperboreus\" (\"The Northern Daedalus\"), a record of mechanical and mathematical inventions and discoveries. One notable description was that of a flying machine, the same he had been sketching a few years earlier (see Flying Machine (Swedenborg)).\n\nIn 1718, Swedenborg published an article that attempted to explain spiritual and mental events in terms of minute vibrations, or \"tremulations\".\n\nUpon the death of Charles XII, Queen Ulrika Eleonora ennobled Swedenborg and his siblings. It was common in Sweden during the 17th and 18th centuries for the children of bishops to receive that honour, as a recognition of the services of their father. The family name was changed from Swedberg to Swedenborg.\n\nIn 1724, he was offered the chair of mathematics at Uppsala University, but he declined and said that he had dealt mainly with geometry, chemistry and metallurgy during his career. He also said that he did not have the gift of eloquent speech because of a stutter, as recognized by many of his acquaintances; it forced him to speak slowly and carefully, and there are no known occurrences of his speaking in public. The Swedish critic Olof Lagerkrantz proposed that Swedenborg compensated for his impediment by extensive argumentation in writing.\n\nDuring the 1730s, Swedenborg undertook many studies of anatomy and physiology. He had the first known anticipation of the neuron concept. It was not until a century later that science recognized the full significance of the nerve cell. He also had prescient ideas about the cerebral cortex, the hierarchical organization of the nervous system, the localization of the cerebrospinal fluid, the functions of the pituitary gland, the perivascular spaces, the foramen of Magendie, the idea of somatotopic organization, and the association of frontal brain regions with the intellect. In some cases, his conclusions have been experimentally verified in modern times.\n\nIn the 1730s, Swedenborg became increasingly interested in spiritual matters and was determined to find a theory to explain how matter relates to spirit. Swedenborg's desire to understand the order and the purpose of creation first led him to investigate the structure of matter and the process of creation itself. In the \"Principia\", he outlined his philosophical method, which incorporated experience, geometry (the means by which the inner order of the world can be known) and the power of reason. He also outlined his cosmology, which included the first presentation of his nebular hypothesis. (There is evidence that Swedenborg may have preceded Kant by as much as 20 years in the development of that hypothesis.)\n\nIn 1735, in Leipzig, he published a three-volume work, \"Opera philosophica et mineralis\" (\"Philosophical and mineralogical works\") in which he tried to conjoin philosophy and metallurgy. The work was mainly appreciated for its chapters on the analysis of the smelting of iron and copper, and it was the work that gave Swedenborg his international reputation. The same year, he also published the small manuscript \"de Infinito\" (\"On the Infinite\") in which he attempted to explain how the finite is related to the infinite and how the soul is connected to the body. It was the first manuscript in which he touched upon such matters. He knew that it might clash with established theologies since he presented the view that the soul is based on material substances. He also conducted dedicated studies of the fashionable philosophers of the time such as John Locke, Christian von Wolff, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, and Descartes and earlier thinkers such as Plato, Aristotle, Plotinus and Augustine of Hippo.\n\nIn 1743, at the age of 55, Swedenborg requested a leave of absence to go abroad. His purpose was to gather source material for \"Regnum animale\" (\"The Animal Kingdom\", or \"Kingdom of Life\"), a subject on which books were not readily available in Sweden. The aim of the book was to explain the soul from an anatomical point of view. He had planned to produce a total of 17 volumes.\n\nBy 1744, Swedenborg had travelled to the Netherlands. Around the time, he began having strange dreams. Swedenborg carried a travel journal with him on most of his travels and did so on this journey. The whereabouts of the diary were long unknown, but it was discovered in the Royal Library in the 1850s and was published in 1859 as \"Drömboken\", or \"Journal of Dreams\".\n\nSwedenborg experienced many different dreams and visions, some greatly pleasurable, others highly disturbing. The experiences continued as he traveled to London to progress the publication of \"Regnum animale\". This process, which one biographer has proposed as cathartic and comparable to the Catholic concept of Purgatory, continued for six months. He also proposed that what Swedenborg was recording in his \"Journal of Dreams\" was a battle between the love of himself and the love of God.\n\nIn the last entry of the journal from 26–27 October 1744, Swedenborg appears to be clear as to which path to follow. He felt that he should drop his current project and write a new book about the worship of God. He soon began working on \"De cultu et amore Dei\", or \"The Worship and Love of God\". It was never fully completed, but Swedenborg still had it published in London in June 1745.\n\nIn 1745, Swedenborg was dining in a private room at a tavern in London. By the end of the meal, a darkness fell upon his eyes, and the room shifted character. Suddenly, he saw a person sitting at a corner of the room, telling him: \"Do not eat too much!\". Swedenborg, scared, hurried home. Later that night, the same man appeared in his dreams. The man told Swedenborg that he was the Lord, that he had appointed Swedenborg to reveal the spiritual meaning of the Bible and that he would guide Swedenborg in what to write. The same night, the spiritual world was opened to Swedenborg.\n\nIn June 1747, Swedenborg resigned his post as assessor of the board of mines. He explained that he was obliged to complete a work that he had begun and requested to receive half his salary as a pension. He took up afresh his study of Hebrew and began to work on the spiritual interpretation of the Bible with the goal of interpreting the spiritual meaning of every verse. From sometime between 1746 and 1747 and for ten years henceforth, he devoted his energy to the task. Usually abbreviated as \"Arcana Cœlestia\" or under the Latin variant \"Arcana Caelestia\" (translated as \"Heavenly Arcana\", \"Heavenly Mysteries\", or \"Secrets of Heaven\" depending on modern English-language editions), the book became his \"magnum opus\" and the basis of his further theological works.\n\nThe work was anonymous, and Swedenborg was not identified as the author until the late 1750s. It had eight volumes, published between 1749 and 1756. It attracted little attention, as few people could penetrate its meaning.\n\nHis life from 1747 to his death was spent in Stockholm, the Netherlands and London. During the 25 years, he wrote another 14 works of a spiritual nature; most were published during his lifetime.\n\nOne of Swedenborg's lesser-known works presents a startling claim: that the Last Judgment had begun in the previous year (1757) and was completed by the end of that year and that he had witnessed it. According to \"The Heavenly Doctrine\", the Last Judgment took place not in the physical world but in the World of Spirits, halfway between heaven and hell, through which all pass on their way to heaven or hell. The Judgment took place because the Christian church had lost its charity and faith, resulting in a loss of spiritual free will that threatened the equilibrium between heaven and hell in everyone's life.\n\n\"The Heavenly Doctrine\" also teaches that the Last Judgement was followed by the Second Coming of Jesus Christ, which occurred not by Christ in person but by a revelation from him through the inner, spiritual sense of the Word through Swedenborg.\n\nIn another of his theological works, Swedenborg wrote that eating meat, regarded in itself, \"is something profane\" and was not practiced in the early days of the human race. However, he said, it now is a matter of conscience, and no one is condemned for doing it. Nonetheless, the early-days ideal appears to have given rise to the idea that Swedenborg was a vegetarian. That conclusion may have been reinforced by the fact that a number of Swedenborg's early followers were part of the vegetarian movement that arose in Britain in the 19th century. However, the only reports on Swedenborg himself are contradictory. His landlord in London, Shearsmith, said he ate no meat, but his maid, who served Swedenborg, said that he ate eels and pigeon pie.\n\nIn \"Earths in the Universe\", it is stated that he conversed with spirits from Jupiter, Mars, Mercury, Saturn, Venus and the Moon as well as spirits from planets beyond the solar system. From the 'encounters', he concluded that the planets of our solar system are inhabited and that such an enormous undertaking as the universe could not have been created for just one race on a planet or one 'Heaven' derived from its properties per planet. Many Heavenly societies were also needed to increase the perfection of the angelic Heavens and Heaven to fill in deficiencies and gaps in other societies. He argued: \"What would this be to God, Who is infinite, and to whom a thousand or tens of thousands of planets, and all of them full of inhabitants, would be scarcely anything!\" Swedenborg and the question of life on other planets has been extensively reviewed elsewhere.\n\nSwedenborg published his work in London or the Netherlands because of their freedom of the press.\n\nIn July 1770, at the age of 82, he traveled to Amsterdam to complete the publication of his last work. The book, \"Vera Christiana Religio\" (\"The True Christian Religion\"), was published there in 1771 and was one of the most appreciated of his works. Designed to explain his teachings to Lutherans, it is the most concrete of his works.\n\nIn the summer of 1771, he traveled to London. Shortly before Christmas, he suffered a stroke and was partially paralyzed and confined to bed. His health improved somewhat, but he died in 1772. There are several accounts of his last months, made by those with whom he stayed and by Arvid Ferelius, a pastor of the Swedish Church in London, who visited him several times.\n\nThere is evidence that Swedenborg wrote a letter to John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, in February. Swedenborg said that he had been told in the world of spirits that Wesley wanted to speak with him. Wesley, startled since he had not told anyone of his interest in Swedenborg, replied that he was going on a journey for six months and would contact Swedenborg on his return. Swedenborg replied that that would be too late since Swedenborg would be going to the spiritual world for the last time on March 29. (Wesley later read and commented extensively on Swedenborg's work.) Swedenborg's landlord's servant girl, Elizabeth Reynolds, also said that Swedenborg had predicted the date and that he was as happy about it as if he was \"going on holiday or to some merrymaking\":\n\nHe was buried in the Swedish Church in Princes Square in Shadwell, London. On the 140th anniversary of his death, in 1912/1913, his remains were transferred to Uppsala Cathedral in Sweden, where they now rest close to the grave of the botanist Carl Linnaeus. In 1917, the Swedish Church in Shadwell was demolished, and the Swedish community that had grown around the parish moved to Marylebone. In 1938, Princes Square was redeveloped, and in his honour the local road was renamed Swedenborg Gardens. In 1997, a garden, play area and memorial, near the road, were created in his memory.\n\nSwedenborg's transition from scientist to revelator or mystic has fascinated many people ever since it had occurred.\n\nSwedenborg has had a variety of both supporting and critical biographers.\n\nSome propose that he did not have a revelation at all but developed his theological ideas from sources that ranged from his father to earlier figures in the history of thought, notably Plotinus. That position was first and most notably taken by the Swedish writer Martin Lamm, who wrote a biography of Swedenborg in 1915 that is still in print. Olof Lagercrantz, the Swedish critic and publicist, had a similar point of view, calling Swedenborg's theological writing \"a poem about a foreign country with peculiar laws and customs\".\n\nSwedenborg's approach to demonstrating the veracity of his theological teachings was to find and use voluminous quotations from the Old Testament and the New Testament to demonstrate agreement between the Bible and his theological teachings. His demonstration of the agreement is found throughout his theological writings since he rejected blind faith and declared true faith to be an internal acknowledgement of the truth.\n\nThe vast and consistent use of Biblical confirmations in Swedenborg's theological writings led a Swedish Royal Council in 1771 to examine the heresy charges of 1770 against two Swedish supporters of his theological writings: \"there is much that is true and useful in Swedenborg's writings\".\n\nVictor Hugo, in Chapter 14 of \"Les misérables\", felt that Swedenborg had \"lapsed into madness\".\n\nSwedenborg proposed many scientific ideas during his lifetime. In his youth, he wanted to present a new idea every day, as he wrote to his brother-in-law Erik Benzelius in 1718. Around 1730, he had changed his mind, and instead believed that higher knowledge is not something that can be acquired, but that it is based on intuition. After 1745, he instead considered himself receiving scientific knowledge in a spontaneous manner from angels.\n\nFrom 1745, when he considered himself to have entered a spiritual state, he tended to phrase his \"experiences\" in empirical terms, to report accurately things he had experienced on his spiritual journeys.\n\nOne of his ideas that is considered most crucial for the understanding of his theology is his notion of correspondences. But, in fact, he first presented the theory of correspondences only in 1744, in the first volume of \"Regnum Animale\" dealing with the human soul.\n\nThe basis of the correspondence theory is that there is a relationship among the natural (\"physical\"), the spiritual, and the divine worlds. The foundations of this theory can be traced to Neoplatonism and the philosopher Plotinus in particular. With the aid of this scenario, Swedenborg now interpreted the Bible in a different light, claiming that even the most apparently trivial sentences could hold a profound spiritual meaning. Swedenborg argued that it is the presence of that spiritual sense which makes the Word divine.\n\nFour incidents of purported psychic ability of Swedenborg exist in the literature. There are several versions of each story.\n\nOn Thursday, 19 July 1759 a great and well-documented fire broke out in Stockholm, Sweden. In the high and increasing wind it spread very fast, consuming about 300 houses and making 2000 people homeless.\n\nWhen the fire broke out Swedenborg was at a dinner with friends in Gothenburg, about 400 km from Stockholm. He became agitated and told the party at six o'clock that there was a fire in Stockholm, that it had consumed his neighbor's home and was threatening his own. Two hours later, he exclaimed with relief that the fire had stopped three doors from his home. In the excitement following his report, word even reached the ears of the provincial governor, who summoned Swedenborg that same evening and asked for a detailed recounting.\n\nAt that time, it took two to three days for news from Stockholm to reach Gothenburg by courier, so that is the shortest duration in which the news of the fire could reach Gothenburg. The first messenger from Stockholm with news of the fire was from the Board of Trade, who arrived Monday evening. The second messenger was a royal courier, who arrived on Tuesday. Both of these reports confirmed every statement to the precise hour that Swedenborg first expressed the information. The accounts are fully described in Bergquist, pp. 312–313 and in Chapter 31 of \"The Swedenborg Epic\". According to Swedenborg's biographer Lars Bergquist, however, this event took place on Sunday, July 29 – 10 days after the fire.\n\nIt seems unlikely that the many witnesses to Swedenborg's distress during the fire, and his immediate report of it to the provincial governor, would have left room for doubt in the public eye of Swedenborg's report. If Swedenborg had only received news of the fire by the normal methods there would have been no issue of psychic perception recorded for history. Instead, \"when the news of Swedenborg's extraordinary vision of the fire reached the capital, public curiosity about him was very much aroused.\"\n\nA second fire anecdote, similar to the first one, but less cited, is the incident of the mill owner Bolander. Swedenborg warned him, again abruptly, of an incipient fire in one of his mills.\n\nThe third event was in 1758 when Swedenborg visited Queen Louisa Ulrika of Sweden, who asked him to tell her something about her deceased brother Prince Augustus William of Prussia. The next day, Swedenborg whispered something in her ear that turned the Queen pale and she explained that this was something only she and her brother could know about.\n\nThe fourth incident involved a woman who had lost an important document, and came to Swedenborg asking if a recently deceased person could tell him where it was, which he (in some sources) was said to have done the following night.\n\nAlthough not typically cited along with these three episodes, there was one further piece of evidence: Swedenborg was noted by the seamen of the ships that he sailed between Stockholm and London to always have excellent sailing conditions. When asked about this by a friend, Swedenborg played down the matter, saying he was surprised by this experience himself and that he was certainly not able to do miracles.\n\nIn 1763, Immanuel Kant, then at the beginning of his career, was impressed by these accounts and made inquiries to find out if they were true. He also ordered all eight volumes of the expensive \"Arcana Cœlestia\" (\"Heavenly Arcana\" or \"Heavenly Mysteries\"). One Charlotte von Knobloch wrote Kant asking his opinion of Swedenborg's psychic experiences. Kant wrote a very affirmative reply, referring to Swedenborg's \"miraculous\" gift, and characterizing him as \"reasonable, agreeable, remarkable and sincere\" and \"a scholar,\" in one of his letters to Mendelssohn, and expressing regret that he (Kant) had never met Swedenborg. Joseph Green, his English friend, who investigated the matter for Kant, including by visiting Swedenborg's home, found Swedenborg to be a \"sensible, pleasant and openhearted\" man and here again, a scholar.\n\nHowever, three years later, in 1766, Kant wrote and published anonymously a small book entitled \"Träume eines Geistersehers\" (\"Dreams of a Spirit-Seer\") that was a scathing critique of Swedenborg and his writings. He termed Swedenborg a \"spook hunter\" \"without official office or occupation.\" As rationale for his critique, Kant said he wanted to stop \"ceaseless questioning\". and inquiries about \"Dreams\" from \"inquisitive\" persons, both known and unknown\", Kant's friend Moses Mendelssohn thought there was a \"joking pensiveness\" in \"Dreams\" that sometimes left the reader in doubt as to whether \"Dreams\" was meant to make \"metaphysics laughable or spirit-seeking credible\". In one of his letters to Mendelssohn, Kant refers to \"Dreams\" less-than-enthusiastically as a \"desultory little essay\".\n\nKant never closed off the possibility of mysticism or spirits in \"Dreams of a Spirit-Seer\" and the exact relationship of his thought to Swedenborg's remains unclear, according to contemporary scholars.\n\nSwedenborg claimed in \"The Heavenly Doctrine\" that the teachings of the Second Coming of Jesus Christ were revealed to him.\n\nSwedenborg considered his theology a revelation of the true Christian religion that had become obfuscated through centuries of theology. However, he did not refer to his writings as theology since he considered it based on actual experiences, unlike theology, except in the title of his last work. Neither did he wish to compare it to philosophy, a discipline he discarded in 1748 because, he claimed, it \"darkens the mind, blinds us, and wholly rejects the faith\".\n\nThe foundation of Swedenborg's theology was laid down in \"Arcana Cœlestia\" (\"Heavenly Mysteries\"), published in eight Latin volumes from 1749 to 1756. In a significant portion of that work, he interprets the Biblical passages of Genesis and Exodus. He reviews what he says is the inner spiritual sense of these two works of the Word of God. (He later made a similar review of the inner sense of the book of Revelation in \"Apocalypse Revealed\".) Most of all, he was convinced that the Bible describes a human's transformation from a materialistic to a spiritual being, which he calls rebirth or regeneration. He begins this work by outlining how the creation myth was not an account of the creation of Earth, but an account of man's rebirth or regeneration in six steps represented by the six days of creation. Everything related to mankind in the Bible could also be related to Jesus Christ, and how Christ freed himself from materialistic boundaries through the glorification of his human presence by making it Divine. Swedenborg examines this idea in his exposition of Genesis and Exodus.\n\nOne often discussed aspect of Swedenborg's writing is his ideas on marriage. Swedenborg himself remained a bachelor all his life, but that did not hinder him from writing voluminously on the subject. His work on \"Marriage Love\" (\"Conjugial Love\" in older translations) (1768) was dedicated to this purpose.\n\nA central question with regard to marriage is whether it stops at death or continues into heaven. The question arises due to a statement of Jesus' that there is no marriage in heaven (Luke 20:27–38, Matthew 22:23–32, and Mark 12:18–27). Swedenborg wrote \"The Lord God Jesus Christ on Marriage In Heaven\" as a detailed analysis of what he meant.\n\nThe quality of the relationship between husband and wife resumes in the spiritual world in whatever state it was at their death in this world. Thus, a couple in true marriage love remain together in that state in heaven into eternity. A couple lacking in that love by one or both partners, however, will separate after death and each will be given a compatible new partner if they wish. A partner is also given to a person who loved the ideal of marriage but never found a true partner in this world. The exception in both cases is a person who hates chaste marriage and thus cannot receive such a partner.\n\nSwedenborg saw creation as a series of pairings, descending from the Divine love and wisdom that define God and are the basis of creation. This duality can be seen in the pairing of good and truth, charity and faith, God and the church, and husband and wife. In each case, the goal for these pairs is to achieve conjunction between the two component parts. In the case of marriage, the object is to bring about the joining together of the two partners at the spiritual and physical levels, and the happiness that comes as a consequence.\n\nSwedenborg rejected the common explanation of the Trinity as a Trinity of Persons, which he said was not taught in the early Christian church. There was, for instance, no mention in the Apostolic writings of any \"Son from eternity\". Instead he explained in his theological writings how the Divine Trinity exists in One Person, in One God, the Lord Jesus Christ, which he said is taught in Colossians 2:9. According to \"The Heavenly Doctrine\", Jesus, the Son of God, came into the world due to the spread of evil here.\n\nSwedenborg spoke in virtually all his works against what he regarded as the incomprehensible Trinity of Persons concept. He said that people of other religions opposed Christianity because of its doctrine of a Trinity of Persons. He considered the separation of the Trinity into three separate Persons to have originated with the First Council of Nicaea and the Athanasian Creed. According to \"The Heavenly Doctrine\" the Athanasian Creed is true, however, if the Trinity is understood to mean a Trinity in one person and that person being the Lord God Jesus Christ.\n\n\"The Heavenly Doctrine\" rejects the concept of salvation through faith-alone (\"sola-fide\" in Latin), since he considered both faith and charity necessary for salvation, not one without the other, whereas the Reformers taught that faith-alone procured justification, although it must be a faith which resulted in obedience. The purpose of faith, according to \"The Heavenly Doctrine\", is to lead a person to a life according to the truths of faith, which is charity, as is taught in 1 Corinthians 13:13 and James 2:20.\n\nIn other words, Swedenborg spoke sharply against the faith-alone doctrine of Luther and others. He held that justification before God was not based solely upon some imputed righteousness before God, and was not achievable merely by a gift of God's grace (\"sola gratia\"), granted without any basis in a person's actual behavior in life. \"Sola-fide\" was a doctrine averred by Martin Luther, John Calvin, Ulrich Zwingli and others during the Protestant Reformation, and was a core belief especially in the theology of the Lutheran reformers Martin Luther and Philip Melanchthon.\n\nAlthough the \"sola-fide\" doctrine of the Reformers also emphasized that saving faith was one that effected works (by faith-alone, but not by a faith which is alone), Swedenborg protested against faith-alone being the instrument of justification, and held that salvation is only possible through the conjunction of faith and charity in a person, and that the purpose of faith is to lead a person to live according to the truths of faith, which is charity. He further states that faith and charity must be exercised by doing good out of willing good whenever possible, which are good works or good uses or the conjunction perishes. In one section he wrote:\n\nSwedenborg made no attempt to found a church. A few years after his death – 15 by one estimate – for the most part in England, small reading groups formed to study his teachings. As one scholar states, \"The Heavenly Doctrine\" particularly appealed to the various dissenting groups that sprang up in the first half of the 18th century who were \"surfeited with revivalism and narrow-mindedness\" and found his optimism and comprehensive explanations appealing.\n\nA variety of important cultural figures, both writers and artists, were influenced by Swedenborg's writings, including Robert Frost,Johnny Appleseed, William Blake, Jorge Luis Borges, Daniel Burnham, Arthur Conan Doyle,\nRalph Waldo Emerson, John Flaxman, George Inness, Henry James Sr., Carl Jung, Immanuel Kant, Honoré de Balzac, Helen Keller, Czesław Miłosz, August Strindberg, D. T. Suzuki, and W. B. Yeats. His philosophy had a great impact on the Duke of Södermanland, later King Carl XIII, who as the Grand Master of Swedish Freemasonry (\"Svenska Frimurare Orden\") built its unique system of degrees and wrote its rituals. In contrast, one of the most prominent Swedish authors of Swedenborg's day, Johan Henric Kellgren, called Swedenborg \"nothing but a fool\". A heresy trial was initiated in Sweden in 1768 against Swedenborg writings and two men who promoted them.\n\nIn the two and a half centuries since Swedenborg's death, various interpretations of his theology have been made, and he has also been scrutinized in biographies and psychological studies. Swedenborg, with his claimed new dispensation, has been considered by some to suffer from mental illness.\nWhile the insanity explanation was not uncommon during Swedenborg's own time, it is mitigated by his activity in the Swedish Riddarhuset (The House of the Nobility), the Riksdag (the Swedish parliament), and the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. Additionally, the system of thought in his theological writings is considered by some to be remarkably coherent. Furthermore, he was characterized by his contemporaries as a \"kind and warm-hearted man\", \"amiable in his meeting with the public\", speaking \"easily and naturally of his spiritual experiences\", with pleasant and interesting conversation... An English friend of Kant's who visited Swedenborg at Kant's behest described Swedenborg as a \"reasonable, pleasant and candid man and scholar\". Of note here is Swedenborg's statement that he was commanded by the Lord to publish his writings and \"Do not believe that without this express command I would have thought of publishing things which I knew in advance would make me look ridiculous and many people would think lies...\"\n\nCopies of the original Latin version in which Swedenborg wrote his revelation are available from the following sources.\n\nList of referenced works by Swedenborg and the year they were first published.\n\nWithin parenthesis is the common name used in a New Church listing Then follows the title in its original publication. All the titles listed were published by Swedenborg, except one, \"The Spiritual Diary,\" which was not. Various minor reports and tracts have been omitted from the list.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24099557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24099557", "title": "Georges Cipriani", "text": "Georges Cipriani\n\nGeorges Cipriani (born 12 April 1950) is a former militant of the group Action directe.\n\nHe was born in Tunis to a working-class family, and later immigrated to France. In the late 1960s, he worked as a milling machine operator in the machine tool workshop of the Renault-Billancourt factory. He was a member of the factory committee at the time of the assassination of Gauche prolétarienne militant Pierre Overney on 25 February 1972. For the next 10 years he lived in Germany, returning to France in the early 1980s and becoming a member of Action directe.\n\nArrested with his accomplices Jean-Marc Rouillan, Joëlle Aubron and Nathalie Ménigon on 21 February 1987 on a farm in Vitry-aux-Loges (Loiret), Cipriani was sentenced to life in prison for his role in the assassinations of Engineer General René Audran and Georges Besse.\n\nAfter several years of solitary confinement and partial confinement, Georges Cipriani was committed to the psychiatric hospital of Villejuif during the summer of 1993.\n\nHis request for the status of semi-liberty, which would enable him to leave prison for extended periods, was denied on 20 August 2009, before being approved on 14 April 2010.\n"}
{"id": "35836854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35836854", "title": "Georges Nicolas Djone", "text": "Georges Nicolas Djone\n\nGeorges Nicolas Djone (born January 30, 1982) is a Cameroonian footballer that currently plays for Persis Solo in the Liga Indonesia Premier Division (LI).\n"}
{"id": "1890959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1890959", "title": "Gianna Jessen", "text": "Gianna Jessen\n\nGianna Jessen (born April 6, 1977) is an American pro-life and disability rights activist. She is a survivor of a failed saline abortion attempt.\n\nJessen was born April 6, 1977 in Los Angeles, California. Her medical records indicate that she was born in the 30th week of pregnancy to a 17-year-old girl during a failed saline abortion. Jessen's death certificate is signed by the doctor who was performing the abortion.\n\nJessen weighed at birth, and, because of the abortion attempt, she was born with cerebral palsy, a motor condition that affects various areas of body movement. She describes it as a \"tremendous gift\". Jessen spent three months in the hospital before being placed in foster care. She was adopted at the age of four.\n\nJessen's career as an activist began in 1991, when she was 14, after her adoptive mother, Dianna DePaul, told Jessen she was born to a 17-year-old girl, during a failed abortion attempt. Jessen has since campaigned against abortion, saying \"It's more comfortable for people to think of abortion as a political decision, or a right. But I am not a right. I am a human being\". Jessen said she's forgiven her birth mother, but is not interested in a relationship with her, citing a strong relationship with her adoptive mother. Jessen has also campaigned against exceptions to late-term abortion laws, on the grounds of fetal disability, citing her own disability. Jessen appeared on the Maury Povich Show with her adoptive mother in 1991. In reporting her story and publicizing Jessen's early life to the nation, the \"New York Times\" observed that Jessen and Becky Bell, a teenage girl who reportedly died as a result of an unsafe abortion in 1988, had become the symbols of America's debate over abortion and characterized them as \"poster girls whose stories are being shrewdly marketed by their supporters to keep passions high.\" Jessen is a stage name that was adopted when she began her activism.\n\nIn 1995, four years after Jessen was placed in the national spotlight, author Jessica Shaver published a biography on Jessen. In early 1996, Festival of Light Australia sponsored an Australian tour, during which Jessen spoke at venues in all states and territories. About two years later, on May 20, 1998, Muriel Patterson, a member of the Western Australian Legislative Council, read excerpts of Jessen's 1995 biography to the Western Australian Legislative Council during the then-pending Acts Amendment (Abortion) Bill.\n\nIn his speech at the 2002 signing of the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act President George W. Bush mentioned Jessen, acknowledging her presence and extending his appreciation.\n\nIn December 2005 Jessen travelled to London to support a campaign to reduce the number of abortions under the UK Abortion Act and to speak at a parliamentary meeting at the House of Commons. Both the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Archbishop of Westminster indicated that they hoped her story would encourage Parliament to look again at abortion.\n\nOn May 8, 2006, the Colorado State House of Representatives considered a resolution honoring the 90th anniversary of a local branch of Planned Parenthood. Republican representative Ted Harvey invited Jessen to sing the national anthem to the House that day and then told her story \"because, 'I just wanted to put a face to this celebration'.\" \n\nIn September 2008, Jessen was in Canberra, Australia, sponsored by the Australian Christian Lobby, to lobby federal politicians on late term abortions. The same month, Jessen appeared in a political advertisement during the 2008 US presidential campaign stating, \"if Barack Obama had his way, I wouldn't be here\", referring to Obama's opposition to \"born alive\" legislation.\n\nIn September 2015, Jessen testified at a Congressional hearing investigating Planned Parenthood's practices regarding fetal tissue donation, following the Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy. During her testimony, Jessen said she would ask Planned Parenthood the following question: \"If abortion is about women’s rights, then where were mine?\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16130648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16130648", "title": "Grace Griffith", "text": "Grace Griffith\n\nGrace Griffith is a folk and celtic singer based in Washington, DC. She has been honored with multiple Wammie awards by the Washington Area Music Association. In 1998, she was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease.\n\nGrace Griffith was raised in a family of ten children on a small farm in Southern Maryland. At a young age she began singing and accompanying herself on guitar playing in small coffeehouse stages, mentored by her sister Maura. Grace’s parents encouraged her to follow a practical career. Putting her musical hobby to one side she graduated from the University of Maryland in 1978 with a degree in physical therapy and embarked on a career as a physical therapist. Several years after her college studies she was invited to sing for a local Irish band in Washington DC called “The Hags” and toured the college circuit for two years. Her successor in that band was to become the famed singer-songwriter Mary Chapin Carpenter.\nIn 1987 Griffith formed a duo called “Hazlewood” with songwriter Susan Graham White. They produced some independent releases and ultimately appeared at the 1991 Philadelphia Folk Festival.\n\nReturning to her celtic roots Grace formed an East Coast Celtic group called Connemara which she formed with fiddler/arranger Cathy Palmer along with harpist Tracie Brown. They were also joined on the albums by guitarist and multi-instrumentalist Zan McLeod. They released 2 albums, firstly Beyond Horizon in 1993 and Siren Song in 1995. \nOther musicians to participate on the projects were harpists Sue Richards, Julia Lane, Carol Thompson and Mary Fitzgerald along with box player Billy McComiskey and Jody Marshall on hammered dulcimer.\nIn 1993 as a solo artist Griffith released her debut album \"Every Hue and Shade\" which came out on her own independent label.\n\nWhen Blix Street Records based in California were looking for an artist to succeed Ireland's Mary Black as their main project in the U.S., they signed Griffith on a long term recording contract. They revamped her album \"Every Hue and Shade\" which became her label debut called Grace. In 1996 Blix Street also licensed the two Connemara recordings for distribution.\nGrace completed 2 further albums with \"Minstrel Song\", released in 2000, and followed by \"Sands of Time\" in 2003. Her album My Life in 2006 drew critical acclaim extending beyond her home base of Washington D.C.\n\nGriffith has been called a singer's singer. One of her keen fans of her singing was the late Eva Cassidy. When Griffith came to know Eva's work, she encouraged Blix Street to sign her as well, which they did just after the release of her album Grace.\nEva Cassidy was first and foremost a music lover sitting in the front row watching her musical heroes perform in Washington. She was also an avid fan of Grace Griffith who spotted Eva’s face at several of her concerts during the late 1980s and early 1990s. Griffith got to hear about Cassidy’s talents and in 1996 made a drive to Potomac to see the then mystery girl at a small club in Alexandria, VA. By this time the Washington Area Association had awarded Grace more than a dozen “Wammies” including “Best Female Vocalist” and “Best Album”. In September 1996 hearing of Eva Cassidy’s illness she went to visit her. Grace made a telephone call to Bill Straw the President of Blix Street Records explaining the situation and two days later Grace sent a tape of Eva’s Live At Blues Alley album to him. On that tape was a recording of \"Fields of Gold\"; the song became Cassidy’s big hit in what has become a phenomenal posthumous career. \"All the colors of the rainbow, all life's palette of beauty and sadness and sweet passion and eternity — it was all there in that voice that came from that heart and those hands\" said Griffith in interview when talking about Eva.\n\nAt the memorial service for Eva at Greenbelt Park, Griffith performed a haunting Celtic-tinged version of \"Golden Thread\".\n\nDuring the next seven years the Eva Cassidy story unfolded whilst Grace Griffith continued to toil in relative obscurity. In one of life’s ironies in 1998 Griffith was diagnosed with the degenerative neurological condition Parkinson's disease.\nIt affected her life profoundly but although her voice was affected she could still sing but she had to give up playing whistle, guitar, and dulcimer and relied on musical friends to support her.\nAt the World Parkinson’s Congress in February 2006 she performed \"If I Can’t Dance\" from her album My Life dedicating it to other fellow Parkinson's Disease sufferers.\n\nIn 2006 Grace underwent pioneering surgery at Johns Hopkins University Hospital for the implantation of electrodes for Deep Brain Stimulation. She benefited from the then experimental procedure and has since become an effective speaker and educator on Parkinson’s. Over a period of time as the batteries ran down, her voice diminished. In March 2010, her doctors, though unable to assure her of a positive result, changed and upgraded the batteries, and it proved successful. Griffith had more energy and more voice.\nGrace Griffith sang at the opening of the second World Parkinson Congress (September 28-October 1, 2010) held in Glasgow, Scotland. Accompanied by Mark Cowan on guitar she performed a traditional tune “The Seasons” (Scots Pastoral song) along with “Sailing” which was a hit for Rod Stewart. Grace also spoke at a Music & Parkinson’s Disease Workshop on the last day of the event.\n\nOn September 28, 2010 Blix Street Records released the compilation album Sailing with the intentions that it would elevate this relatively unknown artist to her rightful place among her peers.\n\nFor the week commencing September 3, 2011 Grace’s song \"My Life\" was added to the BBC Radio 2 B Playlist.\n\nGrace Griffith’s debut album with Blix Street Records released on August 6, 1996. It was a re-package of her 13 track independent record called Every Hue and Shade. On this 10 track recording it includes a take of the show tune “Summertime” from the George Gershwin opera Porgy and Bess and a cover of \"Turning Away\" written by Scottish singer-songwriter Dougie MacLean which appeared on his album Indigenous in 1999. It also contains a musical version of the W.B.Yeats poem \"The Lake Isle of Innisfree\"\n\nOn April 24, 2000 Griffith released this 10 track recording on the Blix Street Record label. It was produced by Grammy Award nominee Marcy Marxer. On this album which was a mixture of traditional and contemporary material Griffith interprets songs with arrangements ranging from sparse guitar and cello accompaniment to lush productions. She covers songs by Iris Dement (\"My Life\"), Jane Siberry (\"Bound By The Beauty\"), John Martyn (\"May You Never\") and Richard Farina (\"Swallow Song\").\n\nHer third album with Blix Street Records Grace Griffith collaborates with former Eva Cassidy producer/band members, Chris Biondo and Lenny Williams along with Grace’s long-time friend producer/instrumentalist Marcy Marxer. It is essential a collection of ballads which includes a cover of “Moment of Forever” written by Kris Kristofferson. The album was dedicated to Eva Cassidy.\n\nOn March 14, 2006 Griffith released My Life her fourth studio release for Blix Street Records and was again produced by Chris Biondo, Marcy Marxer and Lenny Williams. It consisted of twelve tracks which are all cover interpretations. The title track \"My Life\" was written by Iris Dement and appeared on her 1994 album My Life.\n\nOn September 28, 2010 Blix Street Records released Sailing which is an 11 track compilation package. The opening track \"Wondering Where the Lions Are” was written by Bruce Cockburn and first appeared in 1979. The tenth track “Sailing/Ships Are Sailing” is a combination of a cover of the 1975 number one hit \"Sailing\" for Rod Stewart and \"Ships are Sailing\" the popular traditional Irish Reel.\n\nAfter battling Parkinson's disease for more than 15 years, Grace was determined to record one more album. On July 22, 2014 she did just that again with Blix Street. The tracks were mostly recorded a cappella, with generally sparse instruments added later. Grace's former Hazlewood partner, Susan Graham White, added her voice to Grace's new recording of Susan's \"Brigid's Shield\" and, for one more song, Hazlewood rides again! In addition to eight new recordings, the album includes 4 previously recorded but unreleased tracks that did not quite fit on their intended albums plus the bonus track, \"Water Fire and Smoke.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48090511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48090511", "title": "Gray C. Boyce", "text": "Gray C. Boyce\n\nGray Cowan Boyce (19 February 1899 - 14 May 1981) was an American medieval historian and historical bibliographer whose masterwork was his five volume \"Literature of Medieval History, 1930–1975: A Supplement to Louis John Paetow's \"A Guide to the Study of Medieval History\"\" (1981).\n\nGray Cowan Boyce was born in San Francisco on 19 February 1899 and brought up in Alameda. He received his advanced education at the University of California at Berkeley, received a B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. in 1920, 1921, and 1925 respectively. He went on to further study at Harvard University (1922–23), the University of Grenoble (1925), and the University of Ghent (1925–26).\n\nIn 1926, Boyce joined the faculty at Princeton University. He remained there until 1946, apart from three years in the United States Naval Reserve during the Second World War. In 1946 he joined Northwestern University where he remained until his retirement in 1967.\n\nBoyce's interests increasingly tended towards bibliography and scholarly standards. He was on the editorial board of \"The American Historical Review\" and one correspondent with that journal quoted approvingly a Boyce review elsewhere where Boyce had said of the reviewed work: \"For 364 pages of text there are almost 200 pages of notes. In the opinion of the writer these notes contain material that is not only essential for such a work, but include matter which is frequently as informing and exciting as the narrative itself. A remarkably rich and well-ordered bibliography of forty pages and indexes ... complete the book.\"\n\nAfter his retirement, Boyce moved back to Alameda where he lived with his sister Merle and was able to complete his masterwork, a five volume \"Literature of Medieval History, 1930–1975: A Supplement to Louis John Paetow's \"A Guide to the Study of Medieval History\"\" (1981). In later life he suffered from Parkinson's disease and glaucoma.\n\nBoyce died on 14 May 1981. His papers are part of the Northwestern University Library Archival and Manuscript Collections.\n\n"}
{"id": "1965137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1965137", "title": "H.R.", "text": "H.R.\n\nPaul D. Hudson (born 11 February 1956), better known by his stage name H.R. (Human Rights), is the British-American lead singer of the American hardcore punk band Bad Brains. His vocal delivery is very diverse, ranging from a rapid-fire nasal whine, to feral growling and screeches, to smooth near-crooning or staccato reggae rhymes. He has departed the band periodically to pursue solo efforts that are more mellow reggae than Bad Brains' usual punk/metal offerings. He is the older brother of Earl Hudson, Bad Brains' drummer.\n\nH.R. and his bandmates became Rastafari around 1979. This spiritual direction influenced the music of Bad Brains via his vocals, and inspired the creation of his reggae band, Human Rights (or H.R.).\n\nAlthough reggae is the main focus on his solo material, he explores rock and other musical genres. He has had numerous albums released on SST Records. A \"Village Voice\" review of a Bad Brains concert described H.R. on stage \"like James Brown gone berserk, with a hyperkinetic repertoire of spins, dives, back-flips, splits, and skanks.\", although in recent years his stage presence has become more subdued, primarily due to his spiritual development from the O.G. Punk/Rasta to more of a Rasta Elder (at least on stage), as well as his occasional playing of rhythm guitar.\n\nH.R. has collaborated with the Long Beach Dub Allstars on their song \"New Sun\" on the \"Right Back\" album, and with P.O.D. on their song \"Without Jah, Nothin'\", on the album \"Satellite\". \n\nIn recent years, H.R.'s Human Rights performances have become markedly more mellow and restrained, focusing primarily on reggae and rasta. This is a stark contrast to his wildly animated, aggressive stage performances of the late 1970s and 1980s.\n\nInterviews with H.R. feature prominently in the 2006 documentary \"American Hardcore\", in which he discusses the early days of hardcore in New York City and Washington D.C., and his association with fellow travelers like Minor Threat and the Cro-Mags. In particular, he recalls encouraging Ian MacKaye to fully articulate Minor Threat's emerging straight edge philosophy, to give young people a positive direction. As depicted in the 2012 documentary \"Bad Brains: A Band in D.C.\", H.R.'s bizarre behavior, such as wearing a motorcycle helmet during a performance and refusing to sing, causes friction with other members of the band.\n\nIn late 2016, the film \"Finding Joseph I: The HR From Bad Brains Documentary\" premiered in Europe and the United States. This film features interviews with HR, as well as other musicians, peers, and family members; it chronicles his life, struggles, and philosophies. The film's companion book was released by Lesser Gods in January 2017.\n\nH.R. has adult children from previous relationships and has been married since 2012.\n\nIn 2016, H.R.'s wife, Lori, revealed that H.R. suffers from SUNCT syndrome, a rare neurological disorder which causes sporadic, excruciating headaches. He underwent brain surgery in early 2017 to relieve the headaches. He also suffers from schizophrenia.\n\n\"For H.R.'s discography with Bad Brains, see Bad Brains discography.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53800381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53800381", "title": "Jean-Bertrand Féraud", "text": "Jean-Bertrand Féraud\n\nJean Bertrand Féraud, (Arreau 4 August 1759 or 1764 - Paris 20 May 1795) was a French politician of the French revolutionary era.\n\nJean Bertrand was the son of Jean-Baptiste Féraud, notary royal, and his wife Jeanne-Marie Casteret. His uncle Félix Féraud, also a notary, was secretary to the last meeting of the Estates of Quatre-Vallées in Arreau in 1789. He studied law, read the Encyclopédistes, and became a freemason. When the National Guard was formed in Arreau, he joined it at once and became a captain. In this capacity, he was sent to Paris to take part in the Fête de la Fédération on 14 July 1790.\n\nA member of the Jacobins, close to Robespierre and Danton, Jean Bertrand Féraud was elected to the National Convention in 1792 from Hautes-Pyrénées. He was elected 5th of 6 deputies, with 145 votes out of 22 cast.\n\nHe protested against the expulsion of the Girondins. He delivered a public speech on 9 Germinal Year I (29 March 1793) to the People's Society of Tarbes, at the church of Saint Jean, where the pope was burned in effigy. In May 1793 the Convention appointed him representant en mission to the Army of the Pyrenees where he was injured charging at the head of a column. He carried with him a decree forbidding on pain of death the use or storing of gold or silver money and requiring all exchanges to use the assignat. On 6 September 1793 he was named representant en mission to the Army of the Rhine and the Army of the Moselle which was striking into Germany. He received his orders from Lazare Carnot as well as directly from the Committee of Public Safety.\n\nIn the Convention, he demanded the death penalty for hoarders, and at the end of the trial of Louis XVI he voted for the death penalty without appeal or reprieve, but he also attacked Jean-Paul Marat, accusing him of arson, pillage, murder and anarchy. He managed to escape the proscription which fell on most of his Girondin allies because he was on mission in the countryside. Attacked on his return to Paris for having voted against Marat and his Girondin associations, he defended himself based on his record with the armies.\n\nDuring the Thermidorean reaction, he joined the opponents of Robespierre and, together with Paul Barras and his troops, he broke into the Hôtel de Ville to search out the Montagnards in hiding there. After this he occupied himself with the reorganisation of the Committee of Public Safety and the Committee of General Security. He was then sent as a representant en mission to the Army of the North.Antoine Merlin de Thionville described him as 'the maddest colleague you could dream of.'\n\nIn the winter and spring of Year III (1795), agriculture and trade were in chaos and the currency was rapidly devaluing. Townspeople were starving as the prices of staple foods rose. The Convention, which had mobilised its armies against external threats and deployed them to repress rebellions in the provinces, could hardly contain the unrest in Paris. During the Revolt of 1 Prairial Year III the crowds forced their way into the Convention's sessions to demand bread.\n\nNewly placed in charge of supplies for Paris, Féraud tried to harangue the crowd while waiting for reinforcements from the National Guard, but a woman in the crowd, incensed, shot him dead with a pistol. The crowd cut off his head, hoisted it on a pike, and then carried it aloft into the chamber of the Convention in front of its President - who was not Boissy d'Anglas as shown in a famous painting by Fragonard, but Theodore Vernier. This was the first and only time that a legislator was killed by the Paris mob.\n\nIn the tumult, a 50-year-old locksmith's assistant named Jean Tinelle was arrested and condemned to death on 5 Prairial Year III for having carried the head on the pike. He was the 2,807th and final person to be condemned to death by the Revolutionary Tribunal before it was suppressed.\n\nThere are various extant representations of Féraud's death, including engravings, paintings and sketches, as well as numerous accounts in newspapers and letters.\n"}
{"id": "7879129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7879129", "title": "Jean-Louis Vignes", "text": "Jean-Louis Vignes\n\nJean-Louis Vignes (April 9, 1780 - January 17, 1862), or as he was known to his Mexican neighbors, \"Don Luis del Aliso\", was a French settler to the Los Angeles area during the Mexican era. He was the first commercial wine maker in California and one of the first men to import and plant European \"Vitis vinifera\" grapes in the state. A skilled cooper by trade and an adventurer and entrepreneur by choice, he arrived in the Sandwich Islands on July 6, 1827. After losing his business in Honolulu due to Queen Ka'ahumanu's edict banning alcohol production, he sailed to California and landed at Pueblo de Los Angeles in 1831. In 1850, Vignes was the largest wine producer in California.\n\nJean-Louis Vignes was born to Jean Vignes and Elizabeth Cato on April 9, 1780, in Béguey, a village downriver from Cadillac, Gironde near Bordeaux, France. He grew up with two brothers, Pierre and Pierre Esliens, and two sisters, both named Marie. The Vignes were artisans. They made barrels for the local wine industry, they raised their own wine, and they processed lees to manufacture wine lees ash, which was used to make fertilizer.\n\nOn 21 Pluviôse Year X, or February 10, 1802, Jean-Louis Vignes married Jeanne Simon, who was the daughter of Etienne Simon and Marie Laillou. They moved into the family house in Béguey which they acquired on December 30, 1816, along with its cellars and workshop, the vines, of ploughable lands, and \"the copper brandy still that contains three barrels.\" Jean-Louis Vignes paid 2,100 Francs \"in good metallic currency\". His signature on the contract was adorned with the three dots of the Freemasons.\n\nJean-Louis Vignes became a local public figure. He was often a witness to marriages and contracts. In 1820, he managed the census in Cadillac, and his name stood prominently at the top of the list. At the end of 1820, his mortgages exceeded 20,000 francs and he ran into financial difficulties. On April 25, 1826, he stopped paying his father the pension he owed, and all his properties were mortgaged. He may also have had political troubles. Indeed, in 1824 the new king was the ultra-royalist Charles X, who, in an attempt to erase the effects of the Revolution, gave all the public jobs to nobles, and all the citizens who had held public positions under the Republic were considered suspect. Father Alexis Bachelot, who would hear Vignes in confession much later, wrote in a private letter: \"Vignes was driven to leave his country after troubles caused by his loyalty, misunderstood considerateness, and too much facility to be of help.\"\n\nJean-Louis Vignes obtained a passport in Bordeaux. He was described on the application as 45 years old, 5’8\" tall, with brown hair and brown eyes, and an oval face with a big nose and a round chin. On November 17, 1826, he boarded the commerce vessel \"Comète\", which was under the command of Captain Antoine Plassiard. On November 20, 1826, the \"Comète\" left the Gironde estuary and entered the Atlantic Ocean with her approximately 30 passengers and her large crew. After stops at \"Isla de los Estados\" (Argentina), Valparaíso (Chile), Quilca and Callao (Peru) and Mazatlán (Mexico), the \"Comète\" landed in Honolulu on July 6, 1827. Jean-Louis Vignes settled to start a new life on a small property about three miles (5 km) from Honolulu and started raising sugar cane, vines, turkeys, and a few cattle. In October 1828, he was hired as manager of Oahu's rum distillery and sent 60 piasters to his family that had remained in France. However, the manufacture and sale of liquor did not sit well with the Reverend Hiram Bingham and his puritan flock. Reverend Bingham successfully pressured Queen Kaahumanu to outlaw the sale of rum. In December 1829, the distillery was closed and the sugar cane plantations were destroyed.\n\nIn 1830, Jean-Louis Vignes sailed from Oahu on the trading bark \"Louisa\", under the command of Captain George Wood. The vessel was owned by John Coffin Jones and was a permanent link between the islands and the west coast of North America. She had come from Boston with a cargo of assorted merchandise to trade in the Islands. Vignes landed in Monterey, Alta California, on June 26, 1831. On July 15, 1831, Vignes applied for a Mexican \"carta de seguridad\", stating his occupation as cooper and distiller. Thereafter, he is often called Juan-Luis Vignes in period documents.\n\nUpon arriving in Los Angeles in 1831, Jean-Louis Vignes bought of land located between the original Pueblo and the banks of the Los Angeles River. He planted a vineyard and started preparing to make wine. He named his property \"El Aliso\" after the centuries-old white alder tree found near the entrance.\n\nThe grapes available at the time, of the Mission variety, were brought to Alta California by the Franciscan Brothers at the end of the 18th century. They grew well and yielded large quantities of wine, but Jean-Louis Vignes was not satisfied with the results. Therefore, he decided to import better vines from Bordeaux, Cabernet Franc and Sauvignon blanc. The vines transited around Cape Horn. To preserve their roots during the long trip, they were inserted in moss and potato slices. Vignes became the first Californio who grew quality vines, and the first who aged his wines. The common practice at the time was to drink the wine as soon as it was fermented. The exact date of his first vintage is unknown. However, it was probably before 1837, because in 1857 he ran an advertisement claiming that some of his wines were 20 years old. The wood for the barrels came from land Vignes owned in the San Bernardino Mountains.\n\nIn 1840, Jean-Louis Vignes made the first recorded shipment of California wine. The Los Angeles market was too small for his production, and he loaded a shipment on the Monsoon, bound for Northern California. By 1842, he made regular shipments to Santa Barbara, Monterey and San Francisco. By 1849, \"El Aliso\", was the most extensive vineyard in California. Vignes owned over 40,000 vines and produced 150,000 bottles, or 1000 barrels, per year.\n\nAs a prominent citizen of Los Angeles, Jean-Louis Vignes met and entertained such well known men as General William Tecumseh Sherman, Thomas Larkin, William Heath Davis and Thomas ap Catesby Jones. His wine was drunk all over California and samples were sent to President Tyler in Washington, D.C. and to France.\n\nHe was quite successful in agriculture. In 1834, he brought a few orange trees from Mission San Gabriel, and planted the first orange grove in Los Angeles. In 1851, he wrote that his two orange groves produced between 5000 and 6000 oranges per season. He also grew 400 peach trees, as well as apricots, pears, apples, figs, and walnuts.\n\nVignes was the patentee of both Rancho Temecula and the adjacent Rancho Pauba in the Temecula Valley.\n\nIn 1855, Jean-Louis Vignes sold \"El Aliso\" to his nephews Pierre Sainsevain and Jean-Louis Sainsevain for $40,000, the largest sum of money ever paid for real estate in California at the time. After his retirement, Vignes continued to be involved in the community. In 1856, he made a large gift to the Catholic Sisters of Charity to participate in the financing of the first hospital, which opened on May 31, 1858. He also contributed to the founding of the first Los Angeles public school.\n\nJean-Louis Vignes died in Los Angeles on January 17, 1862, at the age of 82.\n\nProud of his achievements, Jean-Louis Vignes wrote to his family members back in Cadillac and urged them to join him in California. Almost twenty of them followed him: three of his five children (Marie, Jeanne, Jean) and their respective families; his youngest brother (Pierre Esliens); four nephews (Pierre Sainsevain, Jean-Louis Sainsevain, Jean-Marie Vignes, Vital Vignes) as well as numerous friends of the family. Jean-Louis's wife Jeanne never left France and died in Béguey in 1842.\n\nThe area around Vignes' estate had, by the 1850s, become the center of French settlers in Los Angeles, which fully numbered around one tenth of the European and Yankee population at the time, and was known as \"French Town\".\n\nVignes and Aliso Streets, in modern-day Los Angeles, commemorate Jean-Louis Vignes contribution to California's history and wine industry.\n\nAlternative names are often found in the literature and in official documents to refer to Jean-Louis Vignes. The most common are: Don Luis del Aliso.\n"}
{"id": "939763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=939763", "title": "Jean Smart", "text": "Jean Smart\n\nJean Elizabeth Smart (born September 13, 1951) is an American actress. After beginning her career in regional theater in the Pacific Northwest, she appeared on Broadway as Marlene Dietrich in \"Piaf\" in 1981. Smart was later cast in a lead role as Charlene Frazier Stillfield on the CBS sitcom \"Designing Women\", which she played from 1986 to 1991.\n\nShe was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play for the 2000 Broadway revival of \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\", and would go on to win two Emmy Awards for her role as Lana Gardener on the NBC sitcom \"Frasier\" (2000–01), and a third Emmy in 2008 for her role as Regina Newley on the ABC sitcom \"Samantha Who?\" (2007–09).\n\nHer film credits include \"The Brady Bunch Movie\" (1995), \"Guinevere\" (1999), \"Sweet Home Alabama\" (2002), \"I Heart Huckabees\" (2004), and \"The Accountant\" (2016). Between 2006 and 2007, she portrayed Martha Logan on the series \"24\", and later starred as Floyd Gerhardt on Noah Hawley's FX series \"Fargo\" (2015), which earned her a Critics' Choice Television Award as well as an Emmy Award nomination. Since 2017, she stars in the FX series \"Legion\", also by Hawley.\n\nSmart was born and raised in Seattle, Washington, the daughter of Kay and Douglas Smart, a teacher. She is the second of four children. Smart was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes when she was 13 years old. On the finale of Season 10 of the television show \"Who Do You Think You Are?\", Smart discovered she was a direct descendant of Dorcas Hoar, one of the last women convicted of witchcraft during the Salem witch trials.\n\nShe is a 1969 graduate of Ballard High School in Seattle; it was there that she gained an interest in acting in the drama program. She graduated from the University of Washington Professional Actors Training Program with a BFA. Smart is a member of the University of Washington chapter of the Alpha Delta Pi sorority.\n\nAfter graduating from college, Smart began her career appearing in regional theater throughout the Pacific Northwest, including in Washington, Alaska, and Oregon. She performed with the Seattle Repertory Theater as well as the Oregon Shakespeare Festival in Ashland, Oregon. In the mid-1970s, she moved to New York City with college friend and fellow actress, Elizabeth Wingate (Lavery), and began working in Off-Broadway and professional regional productions.\n\nIn 1980 she appeared as Lady Macbeth at the Pittsburgh Public Theater opposite Tom Atkins as Macbeth and Keith Fowler as Macduff. In 1981, Smart was nominated for a Drama Desk Award for her performance in the Off-Broadway play \"Last Summer at Bluefish Cove\". In February 1981, Smart appeared in a Broadway production of \"Piaf\" playing Marlene Dietrich, a role which she would later reprise for the 1984 television version.\n\nIn addition to theater, Smart began working in television in several smaller to mid-size guest parts in the late 1970s and early 1980s, appearing on \"The Facts of Life\", \"Alice\", and \"Remington Steele\" among several others. According to Smart, after roles on the short-lived series \"Teachers Only\" and \"Reggie\" in 1983, \"casting directors just decided I was funny. When that happens, you usually get pigeonholed, but I was fortunate. I got to move back and forth.\" The following year, she had a supporting part in the thriller \"Flashpoint\" (1984).\n\nIn 1985, Smart was cast in the starring role of Charlene Frazier Stillfield on the comedy series \"Designing Women\", a role she played from the show's beginning in 1986 through its fifth season. After leaving \"Designing Women\", her work mostly concentrated within made-for-television movies and supporting roles in films. Notably she portrayed serial killer, Aileen Wuornos, in the TV movie, \"Overkill: The Aileen Wuornos Story\" (1992), followed by a supporting part in the black comedy \"Mistress\" (1992), opposite Robert De Niro and Eli Wallach. Critic Roger Ebert praised the film and called Smart's character portrayal \"calculating.\"\n\nThe following year, she appeared in the family drama \"\" (1993), and as Ory Baxter in a television version of \"The Yearling\" (1994). She was then cast as Sally Brewton in the television miniseries \"Scarlett\" (1995), and appeared in a supporting role in \"The Brady Bunch Movie\" (1995). She would also appear in the television thriller film \"A Stranger In Town\" (1995), opposite Gregory Hines.\n\nIn 1995 Smart was cast as the lead in the comedy series \"High Society\", which co-starred Mary McDonnell and ran for 13 episodes, followed by a role opposite Nancy McKeon in another short-lived CBS sitcom, \"Style & Substance\". Other roles included a part in Neil Simon's \"The Odd Couple II\" (1998), and as Deborah Sloane in the drama \"Guinevere\" (1999). She had a lead role in the comedy \"Forever Fabulous\" (1999) as an aging beauty queen.\n\nIn 2000, Smart was cast as Lana Gardner on the hit show \"Frasier\", set in her hometown of Seattle. She went on to win two Emmy Awards for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series. Reflecting on the role, Smart said: \"I had loved that role on \"Frasier\" so much, particularly that first episode. It’s nice to get nominated and win for something you were particularly proud of. At the time I was a little bit snobby about doing guest parts. Based on what I don’t know. It wasn’t something I was seeking. But my agent said, “You have to read this.” I thought it was hilarious and the show was brilliant so I didn’t even hesitate. I remember when we did the table read with the rest of the cast we could hardly get through it we were laughing so hard.\"\n\nThe same year, she played in a Broadway production of \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\", which earned her a Tony Award nomination. Soon after, she landed roles in several high-profile films including \"Sweet Home Alabama\" (2002), playing the mother in law of Reese Witherspoon, and in the comedy \"Bringing Down The House\" (2002), opposite Queen Latifah. She also had a supporting role in the independent drama \"Garden State\" (2004). Between 2000 and 2004, Smart played the role of Supervisor of Detectives and ex-wife to Chief Jack Mannion of the Metropolitan Police Department on \"The District\".\n\nFrom 2002 to 2007 she voiced Dr. Ann Possible in \"Kim Possible\", and also provided the voice of the alcoholic chain-smoking, Pickles Oblong, on \"The Oblongs\". In 2004, she reprised her voice role as Reba Heyerdahl in an episode of the Nickelodeon series \"Hey Arnold!\". The same year, she was cast in a lead role in the short-lived \"Center of the Universe\". She also had a supporting role in David O. Russell's \"I Heart Huckabees\" (2004).\n\nIn January 2006, Smart joined the cast of the Fox series \"24\", playing the mentally unstable First Lady of the United States, Martha Logan, to actor Gregory Itzin's President Charles Logan. She received back-to-back Emmy nominations for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series and Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama for the role in 2006 and 2007. She also appeared in several films between 2006 and 2010, including the Curtis Hanson-directed drama \"Lucky You\" (2007), opposite Drew Barrymore; \"Youth in Revolt\" (2009); and the independent comedy \"Barry Munday\" (2010).\n\nSmart won her third Emmy Award for Best Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series for portraying Samantha's overbearing mother in the sitcom \"Samantha Who?\", opposite Christina Applegate, which she played from 2007 to 2009. She later was cast as Hawaii Governor Pat Jameson during the first season of the CBS-TV remake of \"Hawaii Five-0\".\n\nIn 2012, Smart was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series for her role in \"Harry's Law\". She then had a supporting role in the Lifetime film \"\" (2013).\n\nIn 2015, Smart starred in the second season of the FX television series, \"Fargo\", portraying Floyd Gerhardt, whose husband is Fargo's most prominent organized crime syndicate, and who is forced to take over after her husband suffers a debilitating stroke. She later finds herself having to lead the Gerhardt dynasty and deal with her sons who are vying to replace their father. For her performance, Smart won the Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Supporting Actress in a Movie/Miniseries, and was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or Movie.\n\nIn 2016, Smart had a role in the thriller \"The Accountant\", opposite Ben Affleck, Anna Kendrick, and John Lithgow.\n\nIn 2018, Smart played a guardian angel, to co-star Candace Cameron, in Hallmark's \"A Shoe Addict's Christmas, which aired Sunday November 25th, 2018.\n\nSmart is married to actor Richard Gilliland, whom she met while working on the set of \"Designing Women\" (he played J.D. Shackelford, the boyfriend of Annie Potts's character, Mary Jo Shively). They have a son, Connor Douglas (born 1989), and a daughter, Bonnie Kathleen (adopted as a baby from China in May 2009). Gilliland played Captain Stan Cotter on \"24\" while Smart later played First Lady Martha Logan on the same series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "599391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599391", "title": "Jim DeMint", "text": "Jim DeMint\n\nJames Warren DeMint (born September 2, 1951) is an American businessman, writer and retired politician who served as a United States Senator from South Carolina from 2005 to 2013. He is a member of the Republican Party and a leading figure in the Tea Party movement. He previously served as the United States Representative for from 1999 to 2005. DeMint resigned from the Senate on January 1, 2013 to become president of The Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank. On May 2, 2017, the board of trustees at Heritage removed DeMint as president of the organization.\n\nIn June 2017, DeMint became a senior advisor to Citizens for Self-Governance, an organization that supports a convention to propose amendments to the United States Constitution for the purpose of reducing federal government spending and power. Also in 2017, DeMint became the founding chairman of the Conservative Partnership Institute, which focuses on the professional development of conservative staffers and elected officials.\n\nDeMint was born in Greenville, South Carolina, one of four children. His parents, Betty W. (née Rawlings) and Thomas Eugene DeMint, divorced when he was five years old. Following the divorce, Betty DeMint operated a dance studio out of the family's home.\n\nDeMint was educated at Christ Church Episcopal School and Wade Hampton High School in Greenville. DeMint played drums for a cover band called Salt & Pepper. He received a bachelor's degree in 1973 from the University of Tennessee, where he was a part of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity, and received an MBA in 1981 from Clemson University. DeMint's wife, Debbie, is one of three children of the late Greenville advertising entrepreneur and South Carolina Republican figure James Marvin Henderson, Sr.\n\nDeMint joined his father-in-law's advertising firm in Greenville in 1981, working in the field of market research. In 1983, he founded The DeMint Group, a research firm with businesses, schools, colleges, and hospitals as clients. DeMint's first involvement in politics began in 1992, when he was hired by Republican Representative Bob Inglis in his campaign for South Carolina's Fourth Congressional District. Inglis defeated three-term incumbent Democrat Liz J. Patterson, and DeMint performed message-testing and marketing for Inglis through two more successful elections. In 1998, Inglis ran for the U.S. Senate, and DeMint left his firm to run for Inglis' old seat.\n\nDeMint was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1999 and served South Carolina's Fourth Congressional District until 2005, when he was elected to the U.S. Senate. His peers elected him to be president of his GOP freshman class. DeMint pledged to serve only three terms in the House, and in 2003 he announced his run for the Senate seat of outgoing Democrat Ernest Hollings in the 2004 election cycle.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" and \"The Christian Post\" have described DeMint as a \"staunch conservative\", based on his actions during his time in the House. He broke rank with his party and powerful state interests several times: DeMint was one of 34 Republicans to oppose President Bush's No Child Left Behind program and one of 25 to oppose Medicare Part D. He sought to replace No Child Left Behind with a state-based block-grant program for schools. DeMint also worked to privatize Social Security by allowing the creation of individual investment accounts in the federal program. In 2003, DeMint sponsored legislation to allow people under the age of 55 to set aside 3 percent to 8 percent of their Social Security withholding income in personal investment accounts. DeMint was also the only South Carolina House member to vote for normalizing trade relations with China, arguing in favor of free trade between the countries. He also provided a crucial swing vote on a free trade bill regarding Caribbean countries. His votes led South Carolina's influential textile industry to heavily oppose him in his subsequent House and Senate races.\n\nIn November 2004, DeMint defeated Inez Tenenbaum, South Carolina's education superintendent, to fill Ernest Hollings' vacated seat in the 109th United States Congress. For his first term, he was appointed to the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, the Environment and Public Works Committee, the Joint Economic Committee, and the Special Committee on Aging. In 2006, DeMint began leading the Senate Steering Committee. DeMint also served as a member of the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. In 2008, DeMint formed the Senate Conservatives Fund, a political action committee with the intention of supporting conservative candidates that may have otherwise been overlooked by the national party.\n\nAs a member of the 111th United States Congress, DeMint joined the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. In 2009, DeMint was one of two Senators who voted against Hillary Clinton's appointment to Secretary of State, and the next year he introduced legislation to completely repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, commonly referred to as Obamacare. Later in 2010, he introduced another piece of legislation titled the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny, which aimed to require congressional approval of any major regulation change made by a federal agency. At the end of his first term, DeMint was appointed to the Senate Impeachment Trial Committee regarding the impeachment of federal judge Thomas Porteous.\n\nDeMint was reelected in 2010, at which time he became the highest-ranking elected official associated with the Tea Party. During the first year of his second term, DeMint released a letter signed by over 30 other Senate Republicans asking the supercommittee tasked with balancing the federal budget to do so within the next ten years, and without creating any net tax increases. In 2012, DeMint resigned his seat in order to become president of the Heritage Foundation.\n\nJim DeMint is a member of the Republican Party and is aligned with the Tea Party movement. In 2011, DeMint was identified by \"Salon\" as one of the most conservative members of the Senate. He founded the Senate Conservatives Fund, a political action committee (PAC), which supports conservative, small government, Tea Party–allied Republican politicians in primary challenges and general elections. In 2013, the PAC endorsed a strategy to defund the Affordable Care Act that culminated in the 2013 shutdown of the federal government.\nThroughout his political career, DeMint has favored a type of tax reform that would replace the federal income tax with a national sales tax and, in addition, abolish the Internal Revenue Service. He has supported many changes to federal spending, such as prioritizing a balanced budget amendment instead of increasing the national debt limit. As a senator, DeMint proposed a two-year earmark ban to prevent members of Congress from spending federal money on projects in their home states. In 2008, presidential candidates John McCain, Hillary Clinton, and Barack Obama co-sponsored DeMint's earmark reform proposal, although it ultimately failed to pass in the Senate. In March 2010, DeMint's earmark reform plans were again defeated. In November of the same year, DeMint, along with nine other senators including Rand Paul and Marco Rubio, proposed another moratorium on earmarks which was adopted by Senate Republicans.\n\nDeMint has also been a proponent of free trade agreements, advocated for the privatization of Social Security benefits, and in 2009 authored the \"Health Care Freedom Plan\", which proposed giving tax credits to those who are unable to afford health insurance. DeMint opposed President Barack Obama's health care reform efforts, saying of the Affordable Care Act, \"If we're able to stop Obama on this it will be his Waterloo. It will break him.\"\n\nDeMint was opposed to the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the bailouts during the automotive industry crisis of 2008–2010. He also led a group of Senators in opposing government loans to corporations. He supports a high level of government accountability through the auditing federal agencies.\n\nIn October 2009, after the Honduran Army, on orders from the Honduran Supreme Court, removed Manuel Zelaya as President, DeMint visited the country to gather information. The trip was approved by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell but opposed by Foreign Relations Committee Chairman John Kerry. DeMint supported the new government, while the Obama administration favored Zelaya's return to the presidency.\n\nIn late 2009, DeMint criticized Barack Obama for waiting eight months into his first term as president before nominating a new head of the Transportation Security Administration. After the attempted bombing of Northwest Flight 253 in December 2009, DeMint stated that President Obama had not put enough focus on terrorism while in office.\n\nIn 1999, DeMint voted against the NATO intervention during the Kosovo war. DeMint voted to authorize military force in Iraq in 2002. In 2011, DeMint voted in favor of Rand Paul's resolution opposing military involvement in Libya. He favored preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons over a policy of containment after their development.\n\nDeMint has also expressed concern about various United Nations treaties, such as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Law of the Sea Treaty. DeMint favors legal immigration and opposes granting amnesty to illegal immigrants. He has expressed opposition to the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act of 2013 on the basis that granting amnesty to illegal immigrants may cost American taxpayers trillions of dollars.\n\nDeMint identifies as pro-life, opposing abortion except when the mother's life is in danger and opposing research from stem cells derived from human embryos. He supports school prayer and introduced legislation to allow schools to display banners including references to God.\n\nDeMint is firmly opposed to same-sex marriage. In his book \"Now or Never: Saving America from Economic Collapse\", DeMint states:\n\nDeMint also argues that same-sex marriage infringes upon religious liberty:\n\nDeMint has repeatedly voted for a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage. He has also voted to ban same-sex adoption in Washington, D.C. DeMint drew considerable criticism by saying that openly gay teachers should be banned from teaching in public schools.\n\nThe Human Rights Campaign gives DeMint a score of 0% on gay rights.\n\nDeMint voted against the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, in December 2009, and he voted against the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010.\n\nHe voted in favor of declaring English the official language of the US government. \n\nDeMint served as an informal advisor to Fourth District congressman Bob Inglis from 1993 to 1999. When Inglis kept his promise to serve only three terms and gave up his seat to run for the Senate against Fritz Hollings, DeMint entered the Republican primary for the district, which includes Greenville and Spartanburg. The district is considered the most Republican in the state, and it was understood that whoever won the primary would be heavily favored to be the district's next congressman.\n\nDeMint finished second in the primary behind State Senator and fellow Greenville resident Michael Fair, even though he didn't carry a single county in the district. In the runoff, DeMint defeated Fair by only 2,030 votes. He then defeated Democratic State Senator Glenn Reese with 57 percent of the vote to Reese's 40 percent—to date, the only time since 1992 that a Democrat has crossed the 40 percent mark in this district since Inglis recaptured it for the Republicans in 1992. DeMint faced no major-party opposition in 2000, and defeated an underfunded Democrat in 2002.\n\nDeMint declared his candidacy for the Senate on December 12, 2002, after Hollings announced that he would retire after the 2004 elections. DeMint was supposedly the White House's preferred candidate in the Republican primary.\n\nIn the Republican primary on June 8, 2004, DeMint placed a distant second, 18 percentage points behind former governor David Beasley and just barely ahead of Thomas Ravenel. Ravenel endorsed DeMint in the following runoff. DeMint won the runoff handily, however.\n\nDeMint then faced Democratic state education superintendent Inez Tenenbaum in the November general election. DeMint led Tenenbaum through much of the campaign and ultimately defeated her by 9.6 percentage points. DeMint's win meant that South Carolina was represented by two Republican Senators for the first time since Reconstruction, when Thomas J. Robertson and John J. Patterson served together as Senators.\n\nDeMint stirred controversy during debates with Tenenbaum when he stated his belief that openly gay people should not be allowed to teach in public schools. When questioned by reporters, DeMint also stated that single mothers who live with their boyfriends should similarly be excluded from being educators. He later apologized for making the remarks, saying they were \"distracting from the main issues of the debate.\" He also noted that these were opinions based on his personal values, not issues he would or could deal with as a member of Congress. In a 2008 interview, he said that while government does not have the right to restrict homosexuality, it also should not encourage it through legalizing same-sex marriage, due to the \"costly secondhand consequences\" to society from the prevalence of certain diseases among homosexuals.\n\nDeMint won re-nomination in the Republican Party primary. Democratic Party opponent Alvin Greene won an upset primary victory over Vic Rawl, who was heavily favored. Due to various electoral discrepancies, Greene received scrutiny from Democratic Party officials, with some calling for Greene to withdraw or be replaced. DeMint consistently led Greene by more than 30 points throughout the campaign and won reelection by a landslide.\n\nPrior to the 2010 elections, DeMint founded the Senate Conservatives Fund (SCF), a political action committee that is \"dedicated to electing strong conservatives to the United States Senate\" and that is associated with the Tea Party movement. As of February 2011, DeMint continued to serve as Chair of SCF, which states that it raised $9.1 million toward the 2010 U.S. Senate elections and which endorsed successful first-time Senate candidates Pat Toomey, Rand Paul, Mike Lee, Ron Johnson, Marco Rubio . DeMint also supported Joe Miller of Alaska through the SCF. Miller was an attorney and former federal magistrate and the Tea Party's candidate opposing Lisa Murkowski the incumbent senator in the Alaska primary. Miller won in a close election, however Murkowski ran as a write in candidate and won the election by 39.1% to Miller's 35.1% and by a popular vote of 101,091 to 90,839 respectively.\n\nOn October 1, 2010, DeMint, in comments that echoed what he had said in 2004, told a rally of his supporters that openly homosexual and unmarried sexually active people should not be teachers. In response, the National Organization for Women, the National Education Association, the gay rights group Human Rights Campaign, GOProud (a GOP group), and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force asked for Demint's apology.\n\nOn December 6, 2012, DeMint announced he would resign from the Senate before the 113th Congress convened in January 2013 to become president of The Heritage Foundation.\n\nOn December 17, 2012, South Carolina governor Nikki Haley announced that she would name Congressman Tim Scott to fill the vacated seat. A special election was held on November 4, 2014, to fill the remainder of the term. On April 4, 2013, DeMint started his first full day as president of the Heritage Foundation. \"The Washington Post\" reported that DeMint's predecessor at the Heritage Foundation, Ed Feulner, was paid a base salary of $477,097 in 2010 (compared to a senator's salary of $174,000) and that year DeMint was one of the poorest members of the Senate, with an estimated wealth of $40,501.\n\nOn May 2, 2017, DeMint submitted his resignation after a unanimous vote by the Foundation's board of trustees.\n\nIn June 2017, DeMint became a senior advisor to Citizens for Self-Governance, a group which is seeking to call a convention to propose amendments to the United States Constitution in order to reduce federal government spending and power. According to DeMint, \"The Tea Party needs a new mission. They realize that all the work they did in 2010 has not resulted in all the things they hoped for. Many of them are turning to Article V.\" The proposed constitutional convention would impose fiscal restraint on Washington D.C., reduce the federal government's authority over states, and impose term limits on federal officials.\n\nIn 2017, DeMint founded the Conservative Partnership Institute, of which he serves as chairman. The stated purpose of the CPI is the professional development of conservative staffers and elected officials.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23955642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23955642", "title": "Joel Walker (sculptor)", "text": "Joel Walker (sculptor)\n\nJoel (Jo) Walker, also known as JOEL or Sculptress JOEL is an English sculptor, animalier, known for depicting animals. \n\nShe was commissioned to make a statue of a dog for Garsdale railway station (Settle-Carlisle Railway). She was chosen for her detailed work, and portraits of animals. This project attracted the attention of the media including the national press.\n\nShe has won prizes for her work including the Gift of the Year award 1994 (Collectibles and Figurines). \nHer work is generally figurative in style, capturing the detailed expressions and attributes of her subjects. Most sculptures are cast by the lost wax process into Bronze.\n\nHer sculptures have also been used by different Societies as awards and trophies, and in the past she has specialized in the portraits of famous breeds of horses, such as the Shire horse and Shetland ponies. This led to the commission of the centenary sculptures for the Welsh Pony and Cob Society.\n\nAnother sculpture by the Sculptress JOEL of a famous equestrian subject is that of Lady Godiva. This brave lady is shown to be riding out on her quest for justice, her head lifted up, one hand holding the mane of the fine Spanish stallion and her other hand gripping the folds of her fallen cloak.\n"}
{"id": "49595117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49595117", "title": "John Heskett", "text": "John Heskett\n\nJohn Heskett, (1937- February, 2014) was a British writer and lecturer on the economic, political, cultural and human value of industrial design. Heskett was a professor at the Institute of Design, Illinois Institute of Technology (1989–2004) and school of design at Hong Kong Polytechnic University (2004–11) teaching in Design history, Design Thinking, he became the acting dean of the latter (2011–12). He was also a visiting professor at universities in Turkey, Japan, Chile, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Finland.\nBetween the late 1970s and 2010, he has published \"Industrial Design, Toothpicks and logos: design in everyday life, Design: a very short introduction\" and other books. These were considered as significant contributions to the history of design, to the study of design policy and latterly to the theoretical and applied articulation of the economic value created by design, first in the United Kingdom, then in the United States and, in the last decade of his life, in Hong Kong.\n\nBorn in Coventry in 1937, Heskett went to the Humphrey Perkins School in Barrow upon Soar, Leicestershire (1947–54), did national service and gained a degree in economics, politics and history at the London School of Economics.\n\nWith his background, Heskett began to write history considering social, economic and political as components of design. In the early 1970s he became part of the emerging first generation of historians of design. \nA variety of jobs followed before he obtained a design history post at Lanchester Polytechnic (1967–77). Then he taught design history and theory in Sheffield,\nand at Ravensbourne College, Bromley, in south-east London (1984–89).\nIn the late 1970s, John became a prominent member of a group of academics based in several of Britain's art schools (then part of the polytechnics – he was at Sheffield City) who developed the discipline of design history and theory, later to become subsumed under the broader. His first book, Industrial Design, appeared in 1980 and was instantly successful since it provided one of the first accounts of industrial design as responses to changes in production methods and the organization of capitalism.\n\nHeskett left the United Kingdom for the United States in 1988, first to work on a project with the Design Management Institute in Boston, and then after 1989, to teach in the graduate programmes in the Institute of Design at Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT) in Chicago. By 1990 he was working for a Japanese consultancy and throughout the next decades he was invited to speak and advise at institutional and government level in Mexico, Chile, Finland, Japan, Taiwan and South Africa.\n\nSince 2004, in Hong Kong, Heskett undertook teaching and research on the roles of design in production and more widely in the economy as a whole, examining design policy at national levels in the United States, Europe and, increasingly, Asia.\n\nHeskett was a member of the Award Jury since 2004 and a board member of CIID since 2007.\n\nHeskett is survived by his second wife, Pamela Smith, whom he married in 1992; his daughter, Ingrid, and son, Peter, both from his first marriage, to Irene Alksnis, which ended in divorce.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>John Heskett Official Website\n"}
{"id": "59166040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59166040", "title": "Joseph Hansen (historian)", "text": "Joseph Hansen (historian)\n\nJoseph Hansen (April 26, 1863 – June 29, 1943) was a German historian of witchcraft and an archivist in the city of Cologne where he was killed by a bombing during World War II.\n\nJoseph Leonhard Hansen was born in 1863 in Aachen and studied at the Universities of Bonn, Berlin, and Münster, earning a doctorate in 1883. From 1891 until his retirement in 1927, he was director of the Historical Archive of the City of Cologne. From 1893 to 1927 he was also chairman of the Society for Rhenish History.\n\nHansen has been referred to as liberal and \"freethinking.\" Hansen was raised Catholic in Aachen and resided in historically Catholic Cologne, with its famous Cologne Cathedral, nonetheless some have referred to him as \"anti-clerical.\"\n\nIn 1900, Hansen published \"Zauberwahn, Inquisition und Hexenprozess im Mittelalter und die Entstehung der grossen Hexenverfolgung\" (Magical Illusion, Inquisition, and Witch Trials in the Middle Ages, and the Formation of the Larger Persecution of Witches) and the following year (1901) a companion volume of background materials (\"Quellen\" = Sources) was published titled, \"Quellen und Untersuchungen zur Geschichte des Hexenwahns und der Hexenverfolgung im Mittelalter: Mit einer Untersuchung der Geschichte des Wortes Hexe.\" \n\nHansen also published a German translation of Henry Charles Lea's three-volume \"History of the Inquisition in the Middle Ages\". \n\nIn 1921, Hansen was elected a corresponding member of the Göttingen Academy of Sciences. In 1925, he was accepted as a corresponding member of the Prussian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1943, age 80 Hansen and his wife Johanna (1872-1943) were killed in a bombing raid on Cologne.\n\nWolfgang Behringer writes that Hansen \"unquestionably delivered the consummate synthesis of previous witchcraft studies.\"\n\nTwo historians of witchcraft who were contemporaries of Hansen -- GL Burr and GL Kittredge-- both acknowledged the importance of Hansen. GL Burr writing in 1911 refers to Hansen as \"the most eminent German scholar who has... given the world the most careful book on the rise of conception...\" English professor GL Kittredge writing in 1907 was arguably forwarding an anti-thetical view to that of Hansen, yet quoted him at length in untranslated German.\n\nWriting in 1965, Carlo Ginzburg refers to the \"fundamental investigations of J. Hansen, more precisely, have demonstrated how the image of diabolical witchcraft, with all its appendages... was developed between the mid-thirteenth and mid-fifteenth centuries largely through the efforts of theologians and inquisitors... All this... has been documented exhaustively... Thus the goal of the present research is to document and build upon the approach to the question originally developed by Hansen.\"\n\nIn a lengthy 1967 essay on the European witch trials, Hugh Trevor-Roper frequently cites Hansen's \"important\" work. Historian HC Erik Midelfort refers to Hansen as \"the great scholar\" in his first work on witchcraft in Germany. Keith Thomas does not cite or refer to J. Hansen in his work on the subject of witchcraft \"Religion and the Decline of Magic\" though the title seems similar, albeit inverted, to Hansen's work from 1900. Writing a few years after K. Thomas, Richard Kieckhefer acknowledges \"no small influence\" from K. Thomas while relying heavily on the work of J. Hansen including over a hundred citations in the \"Calendar of Witch Trials.\" Kieckhefer also joins Norman Cohn (1975) in expressing strong reservations toward one of Hansen's sources (Baron Lamothe-Langon see below). \n\nHistorians Alan Charles Kors and Edward Peters refer to Hansen as \"the great archivist of Cologne\" and consider his two works the most important scholarship from the turn of the century. \n\nDespite their influence, Hansen's works were not translated into English during the 20th century. \n\nIn 2011, a work that tracked and translated into English a selection of the sources used by Hansen in \"Quellen\" was published by P. G. Maxwell-Stuart.\n\nIn his work on witchcraft, Hansen relied on a vast number of sources and typically included lengthy quotations. These quotes are most often in the original ecclesiastical Latin, the lingua franca of Europe since the time of Jerome. In \"Zauberwahn\" these quotes are often placed within the footnotes, and they are featured prominently in the companion work \"Quellen\" (\"sources\"). With regard to one source, Baron Lamothe-Langon, Hansen writes that he consulted with Professor Ch. Molinier \"the best expert on the inquisition in the south of France\" who confirmed that archives used by Lamothe-Langon can no longer be found (\"nicht mehr aufzufinden sind\"). Under these circumstances (\"Unter diesen Umständen mussen\") Hansen laments that he can therefore only provide the full extracts in French, as Hansen seems to believe that, before they were lost, the original Latin documents written by the inquisitors were roughly translated into French by Lamothe-Langon as he compiled a three volume work on the inquisition.\nWriting in 1972, JB Russell follows Hansen in lamenting the missing Latin originals, and that \"we must rely upon a summary translation, and though Lamothe-Langon was a careful scholar, we have no way of knowing what was the word he translated as 'sabbat'.\" The Latin word \"sabbatum\" occurs frequently in Jerome's Latin vulgate and would have been familiar to all within the medieval Church. Twelfth century inquisitors who were operating in Toulouse France sometimes referred to Waldensiens as \"Inzabbbatos\". Use of the word \"sabbatum\" as a shorthand to represent a gathering of more than one witch seems most traceable to Francophone writers such as Pierre de Lancre (1612). Lamothe-Langon, also writing in French, may have helped spread the use of the word as shorthand, and Hansen uses it frequently writing in German. But most fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth century writers who joined in the witchcraft debate seem to rarely, if ever, use the Latin \"sabbatum\" or vernacular derivatives thereof. \nWriting in 1976, R Kieckhefer cites Russell's work and seems to have become intrigued by his comment regarding the word 'sabbat' but he departs from Russell's view of Lamothe-Langon as a reliable source: \"What historians have failed to recognize, however, is that there is serious reason to believe that Lamothe-Langon's texts are forgeries.\" Kieckhefer bases this on \"certain inaccuracies and anachronisms... In particular, Lamothe-Langon uses the word 'Sabbath' in rendering documents for fourteenth-century diabolical assemblies, though this word did not begin to displace the term 'synagogue' of 'synagogue of Satan' until well into the fifteenth century.\" Kieckhefer cites Russell (as quoted above) but does not provide other sources to support his claims regarding \"Sabbath\" or \"synagogue\" or \"synagogue of Satan\" or whether he means in Latin or a vernacular language. In a 2002 reprint of an excerpt from the same 1976 work by Kieckhefer, the citation of Russell is removed and replaced with a broad statement: \"The Lamothe-Langon texts are now generally regarded as fakes.\" Kieckhefer points out that Norman Cohn shares his opinion (see below), and is careful to note their conclusions were reached independently. A citation that helps explain the serendipity is not included in the 2002 reprint but appeared in 1976: \"Cohn and I both based our discoveries in large part on the biographical data in [Richard] Switzer's book of 1962.\" \n\nWriting in 1975, Norman Cohn seems to go further than Kieckhefer. For Cohn, questions about the unreliability of Lamothe-Langon, originally based on a biography, seem to have moved from an intriquing and speculative theory into established fact, and Cohn broadens the issue from pertaining to a handful of documents into what he deems a \"spectacular historical hoax.\" Under the heading \"How the Great Witch-Hunt Did Not Start,\" Cohn lists a number of trials from 1275 to 1360, many of which are included in the work of Hansen (and Soldan), and Cohn claims they are all \"false from start to finish. None of these things happened.\" However, a couple pages later, Cohn concedes that there was a \"sole contemporary mention\" of a witch trial around 1275\" but this trial was for \"simple sorcery.\" (Cohn doesn't provide the Latin term for \"simple sorcery.\") \n\nFurther on, Cohn again qualifies his initial statement and concedes yet another trial from the list did happen, \"In 1329, the inquisitor of Carcassonne did sentence a monk to life imprisonment for practicing love magic...\" Cohn doesn't provide his source for this \"love magic\" trial but it can be found in \"Quellen\" where Hansen cites the work of HC Lea and Lea includes the entire 1329 sentence reprinted in the original Latin. The 1329 sentence refers to...\"multas et diversas daemonum conjurationes et invocationes\"... and frequently uses the same Latin synonym for witch -- \"sortilegia\" -- found on the title page of Nicolas Rémy's work from 1595 where it is claimed that 900 persons were executed for \"sortilegii crimen\". Hansen seems to have further taken the time to verify Lea's transcription of the 1329 sentence in the archives at Paris: \"befinden sich in der Pariser Nationatalbibliothek Msc. Doat col. 27 p. 177, vol. 28 p. 161.\" \n\nIn this same Paris archive, Hansen verified, via a separate trial, that the inquisitor named by Lamothe-Langon was operating in Carcassonne in 1276 via a separate trial. Operating within Cohn's theory, such corroboration is unhelpful because Lamothe-Langon could have lifted the name from \"a standard list of the inquisitors for Toulouse.\" Whereas Kieckhefer claims his skepticism is based in \"anachronisms in the reports,\" Cohn seems to suggest the opposite: appearances of authenticity in Lamothe-Langon's accounts could be indicators of copying details from proper sources.\nIt is not clear that withdrawing the Lamothe-Langon records in question would have a significant impact on Hansen's lengthy works from 1900-1901 or his broader thesis. Institutional partisans or those historians of witchcraft who share an affinity with the bottom-up view of Jakob Grimm, and oppose the top-down view of W.G.Soldan might have reason to highlight any potential embarrassment to Hansen due to his dogged focus on the culpability at the top-- the \"kirche und staat\" (church and state)-- and his selection and compilation of the surviving written record on the subject which almost exclusively comes from those sources.\n\nZauberwahn, Inquisition und Hexenprozess im Mittelalter, und die Entstehung der grossen Hexenverfolgung (1900)\n\nQuellen und Untersuchungen zur Geschichte des Hexenwahns und der Hexenverfolgung im Mittelalter (1901) \n"}
{"id": "47142042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47142042", "title": "Joy Haizelden", "text": "Joy Haizelden\n\nJoy Haizelden (born 1 December 1998) is a 2.5 point British wheelchair basketball player who was the youngest player to represent Great Britain at the 2014 Women's World Wheelchair Basketball Championship in Toronto.\n\nJoy Haizelden was born on 1 December 1998. Joy and her older sister Miriam, both of whom have spina bifida, were abandoned outside an orphanage in their native China. They were adopted by an English couple, Jim and Margaret Haizelden, who took them to live in Southampton, in Hampshire, in 2005. She was a student at The Kings School. They could not participate in physical education, so Jim went looking for ways to keep them fit and active. A friend invited him to bring them to his wheelchair basketball club.\n\nHaizelden is classified as a 2.5 point player. She made her international debut in the Standard Life Head to Head series against the Netherlands in 2013. This was followed by the U25 European Wheelchair Basketball Championships, where Team Great Britain won the silver medal. She was named the Peter Jackson Young Female Player of the Year at The Lord’s Taverners National Junior Championships in July 2013, and was part of England South’s team at the Sainsbury 2013 School Games, winning bronze.\n\nAt the age of 15, she was the youngest player chosen to represent Great Britain at the 2014 Women's World Wheelchair Basketball Championship in Toronto. Team Great Britain came fifth, its best ever result at the World Championship. The following year, she was part of Team Great Britain at the Osaka Cup in Japan in February, winning silver, and at the 2015 Women's U25 Wheelchair Basketball World Championship in Beijing in July, winning gold. The senior team then defeated France to take bronze in the 2015 European Championship in Worcester. In May 2016, she was named as part of the team for the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro. The British team produced its best ever performance at the Paralympics, making it all the way to the semi-finals, but lost to the semi-final to the United States, and then the bronze medal match to the Netherlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "321908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321908", "title": "King in the mountain", "text": "King in the mountain\n\nThe King asleep in mountain (D 1960.2 in Stith Thompson's motif index system) is a prominent folklore motif found in many folktales and legends. Thompson also termed it as the Kyffhäuser type. Some other designations are: king in the mountain, king under the mountain, or sleeping hero.\n\nExamples include the legends of Frederic Barbarossa at Kyffhäuser, Kraljević Marko, Ogier the Dane, King Arthur, Charlemagne, and King Matjaž.\n\nThe motifs A 571 \"Culture hero asleep in mountain\", and E 502, \"The Sleeping Army\" are similar and can occur in the same tale. A related motif is the \"Seven Sleepers\" (D 1960.1, also known as the \"Rip Van Winkle\" motif), whose type tale is the Seven Sleepers of Ephesus (AT tale type 766).\n\nKing in the mountain stories involve legendary heroes, often accompanied by armed retainers, sleeping in remote dwellings, including caves on high mountaintops, remote islands, or supernatural worlds. The hero is frequently a historical figure of some military consequence in the history of the nation where the mountain is located.\n\nThe stories gathered by the Brothers Grimm concerning Frederick Barbarossa and Charlemagne are typical of the stories told, and have been influential on many variants and subsequent adaptations. The presence of the hero is unsuspected, until some herdsman wanders into the cave, typically looking for a lost animal, and sees the hero. The stories almost always mention the detail that the hero has grown a long beard, indicative of the long time he has slept beneath the mountain.\n\nIn the Brothers Grimm version, the hero speaks with the herdsman. Their conversation typically involves the hero asking, \"Do the eagles (or ravens) still circle the mountaintop?\" The herdsman, or a mysterious voice, replies, \"Yes, they still circle the mountaintop.\" \"Then begone! My time has not yet come.\"\n\nThe herdsman in this story was then supernaturally harmed by the experience: he ages rapidly, he emerges with his hair turned white, and often he dies after repeating the tale. The story goes on to say that the king sleeps in the mountain, awaiting a summons to arise with his knights and defend the nation in a time of deadly peril. The omen that presages his rising will be the extinction of the birds that trigger his awakening.\n\nA number of kings, rulers, fictional characters and religious figures have become attached to this story. They include the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSometimes this type of story or archetype is also attached to not-so-heroic figures, who are either simple anti-heroes or fully villains, whose return would mean the end of the world, or whose sleep represents something positive. This kind of archetype is known as the \"Chained Satan\" archetype. Among examples of this are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10609605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10609605", "title": "Kunal Kapoor (actor)", "text": "Kunal Kapoor (actor)\n\nKunal Kapoor (born 26 June 1959), son of the late actors Shashi Kapoor and Jennifer Kendal, is an Indian film actor who made his debut with the 1972 English-language film \"Siddhartha\", later acted in Shyam Benegal's \"Junoon\" and in his first mainstream Bollywood film, \"Ahista\", opposite Padmini Kolhapure as well as \"Vijeta\". He also acted in the art films \"Utsav\" (1984) and \"Trikal\" (1985).\n\nIn 1987, he stopped acting after \"Trikal\" to set up his own company, Adfilm-Valas, to producing and direct television commercials. Adfilm Valas has also line-produced for many international feature films and ad films shot in India. Notably, the credit sequence of the film \"City of Joy\", and the French films \"Le Cactus\" (2005) and \"Fire in Paradise\".\n\nIn 2015, he returned to films after 30 years, appearing in \"Singh is Bling\" as Amy Jackson's father.\n\nKunal Kapoor was born into the famous first family of Bollywood, the Kapoor family, the eldest child of Shashi Kapoor and his British theater-actress wife Jennifer Kapoor. His paternal grandfather, Prithviraj Kapoor, was a doyen of the theatre, a pioneer of the Indian film industry and the progenitor of the famous Kapoor family. His maternal grandfather, Geoffrey Kendal, was a British theatre personality. Kapoor's mother, Jennifer, died of cancer in 1984, while his father, Shashi Kapoor, died in December 2017.\n\nKapoor's siblings are Karan Kapoor (b. 18 January 1962) and Sanjana Kapoor (b. 27 November 1967). Karan, a popular model who also worked in a few films in the 1980s, now runs a photography business in the UK. Sanjana Kapoor runs the ancestral Prithvi Theatre and is married to Valmik Thapar, a noted conservationist. \n\nKunal was married to filmmaker Ramesh Sippy's daughter Sheena, who is a well-known photographer. They had two children together, a son named Zahan Prithviraj Kapoor, and a daughter named Shaira Kapoor. Kunal and Sheena are now divorced.\n"}
{"id": "335075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=335075", "title": "Lincoln Chafee", "text": "Lincoln Chafee\n\nLincoln Davenport Chafee (; born March 26, 1953) is an American politician from the state of Rhode Island. He was mayor of Warwick from 1993 to 1999, a United States Senator from 1999 to 2007, and the 74th Governor of Rhode Island from 2011 to 2015. He has been a member of the Democratic Party since 2013, having previously been a Republican Party member until 2007 and an independent in the interim.\n\nThe son of Republican politician John Chafee, who was the 66th Governor of Rhode Island, the United States Secretary of the Navy, and a U.S. Senator from Rhode Island, Lincoln Chafee's first elected office was as a member of the Warwick City Council in 1985. After John Chafee died in 1999 while serving in the United States Senate, Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Almond appointed Lincoln Chafee to fill his father's seat in the U.S. Senate to which he was elected to a full term in 2000 as candidate of the Republican Party.\n\nChafee's tenure in the United States Senate was characterized by his support for fiscal and social policies that often opposed those promoted by the Republican Party. He was defeated in his 2006 reelection bid by Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse. Chafee subsequently shifted his affiliation towards the Democratic Party by first endorsing Barack Obama in the 2008 presidential election, running as an independent for Governor of Rhode Island in 2010, serving as the co-chair of Obama's 2012 re-election campaign, and then finally officially switching his registration to the Democratic Party in May 2013. In 2015, he sought nomination to be the Democratic Party candidate in the 2016 presidential election, but withdrew prior to the primaries.\n\nLincoln Davenport Chafee was born on March 26, 1953 in Providence, Rhode Island, the son of Virginia (née Coates) and John Chafee. Chafee's great-great-grandfather Henry Lippitt was Governor of Rhode Island. Among his great-great-uncles are Rhode Island Governor Charles Warren Lippitt and United States Senator Henry Frederick Lippitt. His great-uncle Zechariah Chafee was a Harvard law professor and a notable civil libertarian. The Chafee family was among the earliest settlers of Hingham, Massachusetts, before moving south to Rhode Island. On his mother's side, his great-grandfather George de Forest Brush was a prolific painter in the American Renaissance, and his great-aunt was painter and theater designer Nancy Douglas Bowditch.\n\nHe attended public schools in Warwick, Rhode Island, Providence Country Day School, and later, Phillips Academy. At Brown University, Chafee captained the wrestling team, and in 1975 earned a B.A. in classics. He then attended Montana State University's non-degree Farrier School (a sixteen-week horseshoeing program) in Bozeman. For the next seven years, he worked as a farrier at harness racetracks in the United States and Canada. One of the horses he shod, Overburden, set the track record at Northlands Park in Edmonton, Alberta. In describing how his time as a farrier affected him, Chafee stated that \"when you're around horses, you tend to be a quieter person.\"\n\nChafee entered politics in 1985, when he was elected over eight other candidates to become delegate to the Rhode Island Constitutional Convention. A year later he was elected to the Warwick City Council, defeating an incumbent, and re-elected in 1988. He ran for Warwick Mayor in 1990, losing by 5 percent in a three-way race.\n\nIn 1992, he was elected Warwick's first Republican mayor in 32 years, and was re-elected in 1994, 1996, and 1998, when he won by 17% and carried all nine wards.\n\nChafee was praised for his fair-minded and sensible approach to government, including his ability to work with seven Democrats (of nine seats) on the Warwick City Council. He conservatively managed the City's finances, strengthening the city's bond rating and paying down the outstanding pension liability.\n\nHe worked effectively and cooperatively with the municipal unions, especially in settling a difficult and prolonged teacher labor dispute that he inherited from the previous administration.\n\nAs mayor, Chafee made conservation, environmental protection and wise growth a priority. He purchased 130 acres of open space, planted hundreds of street trees, and created new historic districts and a new economic development \"intermodal\" district at the state airport. His municipal composting and recycling initiatives dramatically decreased landfill waste. His \"Greenwich Bay Initiative\", which extended sewer service to the most environmentally-sensitive areas of the city, earned Warwick recognition by EPA as one of the best local watershed programs in the nation.\n\nAfter his father announced he would not seek re-election in 2000, Lincoln Chafee announced he would run for the seat. When John Chafee died suddenly in October 1999, Governor Lincoln Almond appointed the younger Chafee to serve out the term.\n\nIn the general election he faced the Democratic nominee, then-U.S. Representative Robert Weygand. Chafee won the election 57%–41%.\n\nIn September 2005, Steve Laffey, the mayor of Cranston, Rhode Island, announced his intention to run against Chafee in the Republican primary election. Among other stances differing from those of Chafee, Mayor Laffey opposed abortion and stem cell research. Laffey was supported by notable conservative groups including the Club for Growth and several anti-abortion groups. Chafee went on to defeat Laffey in the primary on September 12 by a margin of 53%–47%. The turnout for the Republican primary was the largest in Rhode Island history. In his victory speech, Chafee credited independent voters and disaffiliated Democrats for his victory.\n\nDespite Chafee's high approval ratings statewide, the state had tended to lean heavily toward socially liberal or moderate candidates for many decades. As a result, Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse succeeded by attacking the instances in which Chafee supported his party's conservative congressional leadership (whose personalities and policies were very unpopular statewide).\n\nChafee lost to Whitehouse in the general election, 54%–46%. In response to a question at a news conference on November 9, 2006, Chafee stated he was unsure whether he would remain in the Republican Party after serving out the remainder of his term. According to Michelle R. Smith of the Associated Press, when asked whether he felt that his loss may have helped the country by switching control of power in Congress (toward the Democrats and away from Republicans), he replied: \"To be honest, yes.\"\n\nDescended from a long line of moderate, center-right New England Republicans, Chafee's stances became increasingly liberal, more so than his father's positions had been. The now dominant conservatives referred to him as a \"Republican In Name Only\", or RINO. Most notable among these was \"Human Events\" magazine, which named Chafee \"the No. 1 RINO in the country.\" In 2006, the \"National Journal\" rated Chafee as the most liberal Republican in the Senate, and placed him to the left of two Democrats, Nebraska's Ben Nelson and Louisiana's Mary Landrieu (the only Republican ranked to the left of the latter senator). GovTrack also ranked Senator Chafee as the most liberal Republican member in 2006; according to GovTrack's analysis, Chafee was to the left of his Republican colleagues as well as to the left of fourteen Democrats.\n\nKnown for often disagreeing with the Republican Party leadership, Chafee says he did not cast his ballot for President George W. Bush in the 2004 election, instead choosing to write in former president George H. W. Bush as a nod to the Republican Party of his father. Chafee frequently criticized the younger Bush's record on the environment, and expressed concern about the 2004 Republican platform and overall philosophical direction of the party. He described the younger Bush's presidency as \"an agenda of energizing the far-right-wing base, which is divisive.\" Soon thereafter, he rejected Democratic overtures to leave the Republican Party after appeals to him from other Republican senators to remain in their caucus. Chafee considered challenging George W. Bush for re-nomination in the New Hampshire primary in 2004 on an anti- (Iraq and Afghanistan) war platform. In his autobiography, \"Against the Tide\" (2007), he states that \"In the fall of 2003, part of me thought it was cowardly to oppose the president on so many issues and then not oppose him head-on as he sought renomination.\" However, he decided not to run after the capture of Saddam Hussein on December 13, 2003.\n\nChafee opposes eliminating the federal estate tax. Chafee also voted against both the 2001 and 2003 congressional budget bills that cut and/or rebated individuals' federal income taxes. He asserted that tax cuts reduce revenue to the federal government, thereby worsening the federal budget deficit and increasing the amount of money it has to borrow in order to operate. In 2004, Chafee broke with his party again to oppose the acceleration of the Bush tax cuts. \"Four Senate moderates -- John McCain of Arizona, Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins, both of Maine, and Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island -- had insisted on attaching a provision that would have applied pay-as-you-go-rules for the next five years.\"\n\nOn November 17, 2005, he was the only Republican to vote in favor of reinstating the top federal income tax rate of 39.6% (which last existed under President Bill Clinton in the 1990s) on the highest-income taxpayers.\n\nChafee favors increased federal funding for health care, and supports an increase in the federal minimum wage. In 2003, Chafee voted against the Medicare Part D prescription drug expansion. However, Chafee also cast a crucial procedural vote against a Democratic attempt to kill that bill, which failed by only two votes. Chafee also co-sponsored the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005, which expanded federal jurisdiction over class-action lawsuits, and voted against a wholesale ban on gifts from employees of lobbying companies.\n\nSome of Chafee's positions considered to be within the mainstream of the current Republican Party include his support of free trade agreements (e.g., North American Free Trade Agreement and Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA); Bankruptcy Reform and the USA Patriot Act. The Cato Institute's Center for Trade Policy Studies identified Chafee as a \"free trader\" during his U.S. Senate tenure, indicating a pro-free trade, pro-market, and anti-subsidies voting record.\n\nAs U.S. Senator from Rhode Island, Chafee received grades of D in 2000, C- in 2001, C in 2002, C- in 2003 and 2004, and D in 2005 and 2006 from the National Taxpayers Union, a conservative taxpayers advocacy organization.\n\nChafee was one of the few Republicans to vote against allowing drilling in Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and was a member of the Republicans for Environmental Protection. He has been endorsed throughout his career by the Sierra Club and the League of Conservative Voters as a strong leader for environmental causes, despite criticisms from other progressive activist groups decrying the endorsement of a (then) Republican.\n\nChafee authored the \"Brownfields\" Act of 2002, one of the most significant pieces of legislation in recent years. This act has enabled the clean up and redevelopment of thousands of abandoned urban buildings throughout the United States.\n\nChafee was a member of the Republican Majority for Choice and Republicans for Choice. Chafee was also a member of the Republican Main Street Partnership\n\nChafee is pro-choice. In 2003, Chafee was one of the three Republican Senators to oppose the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act. His 2006 senatorial re-election bid was endorsed by NARAL Pro-Choice America. He also supported federal funding for embryonic stem cell research.\n\nIn 2004, Chaffee was one of six Republicans to vote against the Federal Marriage Amendment, an amendment intended to ban gay marriage; in 2006, he voted against banning gay marriage a second time. During his tenure, Chafee was the only sitting or former Republican senator to support the legalization of same-sex marriage, until Rob Portman of Ohio endorsed it in 2013.\n\nHe supports affirmative action and gun control, and was one of only two Republicans to vote against the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (which prevents firearms manufacturers and dealers from being held liable for crimes committed with their products). On June 27, 2006, Chafee was one of only three Republicans to vote against the proposed Flag Desecration Amendment.\n\nChafee opposes the death penalty, and has consistently voted against limiting death penalty appeals in federal cases. He has also favored including racial statistics in death penalty appeals, and making DNA analysis a prerequisite for any federal-level, criminal executions.\n\nOn May 23, 2005, Chafee was one of 14 bipartisan senators to forge a compromise on the Democrats' use of the judicial filibuster, forestalling the Republican leadership's implementation of the so-called \"nuclear option\". Under the agreement, the Democrats would retain the power to filibuster a Bush II judicial nominee only in an \"extraordinary circumstance\", and three of the most conservative Bush appellate court nominees (Janice Rogers Brown, Priscilla Owen and William Pryor) would receive a vote by the full Senate. Chafee was the only Republican to oppose George W. Bush's nomination of Samuel Alito to the United States Supreme Court. However, he voted to end debate on the nomination, helping to end any chance of a Democratic filibuster of it. Chafee did not announce his opposition to the nomination until a majority of Senators had already publicly said they would support Alito.\n\nChafee was the only Republican in the Senate to vote against authorization of the use of force in Iraq. On June 22, 2006, he was the only Republican to vote for the Levin amendment calling for a nonbinding timetable for a withdrawal of US troops from Iraq. Chafee voted against the Kerry-Feingold amendment calling for a binding timetable.\n\nChafee is now involved in J Street, a liberal Jewish group that calls for Israel to withdraw from all occupied territories and advocates for a \"two state\" solution to the Arab–Israeli conflict.\n\nIn November 2006, immediately following the midterm elections, Chafee joined key Democrats in opposing President Bush's renomination of John Bolton as United States Ambassador to the United Nations. On December 4, 2006, the White House announced that Bolton would no longer seek the appointment, and would resign within a matter of weeks.\n\n\nIn December 2006, Chafee announced he was accepting a fellowship to serve as a \"distinguished visiting fellow\" at Brown University's Thomas J. Watson Jr. Institute for International Studies. The university had Chafee lead a student group studying U.S. foreign policy.\n\nIn September 2007, Chafee officially left the Republican Party, changing his affiliation to Independent. He said that he did so because of the Republican Party's drifting away from its core values, such as its abandoning fiscal conservatism. Citing the party's new tendency to pass tax cuts without spending cuts to balance the loss of revenue, he noted how the party was destroying social programs aimed to help middle-class and lower-income Americans, particularly Pell Grants and Head Start. In February 2008, he said he was considering voting for then-Senator Barack Obama in Rhode Island's Democratic presidential primary election. On February 14, 2008, with the Rhode Island Democratic primary approaching in three weeks, Chafee officially endorsed Obama. In 2012, he was one of 35 co-chairs selected to \"act as key surrogates and ambassadors\" for Obama's re-election campaign.\n\nIn 2008, Chafee joined the advisory board of J Street, a lobbying group that promotes diplomatic relations between Israel and its neighbors, and supports an independent Palestinian state.\n\nIn September 2008, Chafee received media attention for describing Sarah Palin, then-Governor of Alaska and the Republican vice-presidential nominee in the 2008 presidential election, as a \"cocky wacko.\"\n\nOn January 4, 2010 Chafee formally declared his intention to run for Governor of Rhode Island in 2010 as an independent,\n\nas the incumbent Governor Donald Carcieri (a Republican re-elected the same day Chafee lost his Senate re-election bid) was term-limited at the time. On October 31, 2010, electoral analysis site FiveThirtyEight.com gave Chafee a 63.8% chance of victory, compared to Democratic opponent Frank T. Caprio's 26.2% and Republican opponent John Robitaille's 10.0%. Likewise, other sites, such as the Cook Political Report, classified the race as a \"toss-up\". Chafee's approval rating at the time of his 2006 defeat was between 51% and 63%.\n\nOn September 16, 2010, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg (who had also switched from Republican to Independent in recent years) traveled to Rhode Island. Bloomberg praised Chafee's \"experience and integrity\", saying that Chafee would put Rhode Islanders' interests \"ahead of party interests\", and that Chafee would \"produce results -— because that's exactly what he did as a mayor and as senator.\"\n\nIt was reported that President Obama's lack of endorsement of any of the candidates indicated tacit support of Chafee over Democrat Caprio.\n\nChafee easily won the endorsements of all major public school teachers unions, including the Rhode Island affiliates of the National Education Association and American Federation of Teachers in his 2010 gubernatorial campaign.\n\nOn November 2, 2010, Chafee won the gubernatorial race, winning with a 36% plurality in the seven-candidate race.\n\nIn August 2012, he announced plans to attend the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina, to show support for President Barack Obama's re-election campaign. After constant speculation during his term, Chafee officially joined the Democratic Party on May 30, 2013. He had previously indicated that he might run for re-election as an Independent or a Democrat.\n\nChafee came to office in the depths of the worst recession in decades. Unemployment peaked at 11.4% in the first months of his tenure. Over his four budgets, July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2015, the rate dropped to 5.9%, second best in the country.\n\nChafee also inherited a crisis with impending bankruptcies of a number of municipalities including Providence, East Providence, Pawtucket, West Warwick and Woonsocket.\n\nAs a former mayor, Chafee was a strong advocate for the state's city and towns. He increased state aid and intervened to protect these distressed communities.\n\nOne city, Central Falls, did declare a bankruptcy. Chafee appointed a special master to run the city on an interim basis, negotiate concessions with labor and retirees, and pass a budget with tax increases. Central Falls emerged from bankruptcy the following year.\n\nChafee had campaigned on a platform that included lowering the state sales tax by creating a 1% tax on 59 tax exempt commodities and services. This would have squarely addressed the Rhode Island legislature annual budget deficit.\n\nA 2012 poll showed that some of Chafee's proposed tax increases, intended to move the state from budget deficit to surplus status, had received negative feedback from Rhode Island residents. As Governor of Rhode Island, Chafee received grades of D in 2012 and B in 2014 from the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, in their biennial Fiscal Policy Report Card on America's Governors.\n\nIn two of his four budgets, there were no tax increases. At the same time, he restored 20% to local education and higher education, cut by his predecessor.\n\nIn May 2012, Chafee refused on principle to release a prisoner charged with murder to federal custody because Rhode Island hadn't had an execution since 1842 and the US Attorney refused to guarantee the prisoner, if convicted would receive a maximum life imprisonment without parole. Chafee said: \"The State of Rhode Island must seek to protect both the strong states' rights issues at stake, and the legitimacy of its longstanding public policy against the death penalty.\"\n\nChafee championed a bill that legalized same-sex marriage in Rhode Island, signing it into law on May 1, 2012.\n\nChafee has shown some willingness to deviate from strict \"War on Drugs\" policies, in favor of alternative approaches to America's drug-crime problem.\n\nOn \"education reform\" in general, Chafee does not believe the politically and publicly popular presumption that America's schools are failing, saying:\n\nThis notion of all these failing schools, if this were true, how did America get to be at the status where we are in the world if it were that bad? So I don't buy into the trashing of our public school system. Somehow Brown University, and University of Rhode Island and Bryant University, Providence College are full of public school students that are doing very, very well and leading America in many fields. Yes, there's room for improvement, I don't deny that and I want to be part of the improvement. But the notion that our public school systems are in disarray and failing, I don't buy that.\n\nChafee opposes charter schools, saying, \"I am wary of charter schools undermining and cherry picking and skimming off the top of our public school system.\"\n\nChafee was the only public figure in Rhode Island to vigorously oppose an ill-fated deal in which the previous Governor committed an unsecured $75 million loan to a former baseball star, Curt Schilling, to develop a new video game, \"\". The first payments started two months before he took office in January 2011.\n\nThe game was released in February 2012 to moderate critical success, but failed commercially. 38 Studios ended up laying off their staff and filed for bankruptcy. According to Schilling, Chafee's public comments calling the game a \"failure\" caused a publisher to pull out of a $35 million deal that could have paid for a sequel. In response, Chafee said he would need to \"verify\" Schilling's claim, saying that he couldn't \"just take it as a leap of faith.\" He added that it \"isn't accurate\" to blame the state for the company's collapse.\n\nAs chair of the agency securing the loan, Chafee initiated a lawsuit to recover lost funds for Rhode Island taxpayers. To date, about $17 million has been recovered through settlements.\n\nIn 2011, Fox News and local conservatives and pundits stirred up controversy over the Christmas tree at the Rhode Island State House. Governor Chafee called the towering fir, decorated with lights, tinsel and toys, a \"holiday tree,\" because that had been the accepted practice of the two previous governors, both Republicans. Chafee went on national TV with commentator Bill O'Reilly, calling Fox News' \"war on Christmas\" coverage \"angry.\"\n\nChafee had previously indicated that he might run for re-election as an Independent or a Democrat. In the face of low approval ratings, polling showing him trailing in both the Democratic primary and the general election, and with weak fundraising, Chafee announced on September 4, 2013 that he would not run for re-election. Chafee thus became just the fourth Governor in the history of Rhode Island to decline to seek a second term, and the first since William S. Flynn in 1924.\n\nOn April 9, 2015, Chafee announced that he had formed an exploratory committee in preparation for a potential candidacy for President of the United States as a Democrat in 2016. He formally declared candidacy on June 3, 2015 with the campaign focused on ten stated issues with \"Prosperity Through Peace\" being his slogan.\n\nFollowing a widely panned debate performance, poor polling numbers, and paltry fundraising, Chafee announced on October 23, 2015 that he would be ending his campaign.\n\nWhile serving in the U.S. Senate, Chafee was characterized as a \"moderate\" or even \"liberal Republican.\" The non-partisan \"National Journal\" in 2005 gave him a composite 59% liberal score and a 41% conservative score. His record as a more liberal Republican Senator earned him criticism from conservatives; the conservative magazine, \"Human Events\", labeled him one of the top ten RINOs, or what they consider to be insufficiently conservative, in 2005. According to GovTrack, Chafee was the most liberal Republican Senator in 2006 being placed by GovTrack's analysis to the left of every Republican and several Democrats. Later, as governor of Rhode Island, he pursued a centrist agenda that alienated special interests on both the left and right, \"from unions to the state's Roman Catholic bishop.\" He has called for moderation and deescalation in U.S. foreign policy, combined with pragmatic fiscal conservatism, and liberal social policies.\n\nChafee has generally been considered pro-choice. In the U.S. Senate, Chafee was one of three Republicans to vote against the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act. He has received a 90-percent rating from NARAL and previously served on that organization's national board. In 2015 Chafee said that he strongly supported \"a woman's right to make her own personal reproductive decisions.\"\n\nChafee is the only governor to have vetoed a bill proposing the availability of Choose Life license plates to Rhode Islanders, citing an inappropriateness of using state license plates to fund politically divisive initiatives and as a violation of the separation of Church and State. This decision was criticized as a violation of free speech and as having been influenced by his previous post on NARAL's Board of Directors.\n\nChafee's policy on firearms regulation mirrors the views of his father, John Chafee, who was generally supportive of a strict regulatory environment. Chafee has received \"F\" ratings from the National Rifle Association and the Gun Owners of America. Chafee has said he supports \"common sense adherence to the Second Amendment.\"\n\nIn 2011, as governor of Rhode Island, Chafee challenged an order of a federal court to transfer a prisoner in state custody to the United States government, because the prisoner in question might be subject to capital punishment, which Rhode Island had abolished. At the time, Chafee said, \"my actions are motivated by my obligation as governor to safeguard Rhode Island's sovereignty and the integrity of its laws.\"\n\nChafee has indicated he is receptive to the idea of legalizing the recreational use of marijuana while stopping short of supporting such a move.\n\nIn 2015 Chafee said he believed \"certain of our rights have been wrongfully infringed upon. Particularly the Fourth Amendment which forbids the tapping of our phones without a warrant.\" While in the U.S. Senate, Chafee was the only Republican to vote against the Military Commissions Act of 2006, which restricted habeas corpus rights of persons detained by the U.S. Department of Defense as enemy combatants.\n\nChafee has said he supports requiring voters to present photo identification at polling places. In 2011 he signed legislation mandating photo ID in Rhode Island elections, stating that he believed requiring photo ID was a \"reasonable request to ensure the accuracy and integrity of our elections.\" The Rhode Island law does allow voters without an approved form of identification to cast a provisional ballot that will be counted if the voter's signature matches the one on file.\n\nIn 2013, five years after his \"Providence Journal\" commentary urging passage of the plan, Chafee signed legislation entering Rhode Island into the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact. As governor he also signed legislation creating the Voter Choice Study Commission \"for the purpose of studying instant-runoff voting and other advanced voting methods.\"\n\nIn the Senate, Chafee voted in support of the 2002 Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act (commonly known as the McCain-Feingold Act), which tightened regulation of \"soft money\" contributions in political campaigns.\n\nChafee has stated his opposition to oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. In the Senate he opposed the Clear Skies Act of 2003 which critics said would increase air pollution if enacted. Chafee has argued that granite is objectively the best rock as it is vital to Rhode Island's economy. The League of Conservation Voters has given Chafee a 79-percent rating while, in 2006, he received an endorsement from the Sierra Club.\n\nChafee supports switching the U.S. to the metric system.\n\nChafee opposes a constitutional amendment intended to ban gay marriage. In 2011, Governor Chafee signed a bill into law legalizing civil unions. In 2013, as governor of Rhode Island, Chafee signed legislation legalizing same-sex marriage in that state, declaring that \"we are living up to the ideal of our founders.\"\n\nAs Rhode Island governor, Chafee called for a cut in the commercial property tax to spur economic development in Providence, Rhode Island. From the National Taxpayers Union, a conservative taxpayers advocacy organization, as U.S. Senator from Rhode Island, Chafee received grades of D in 2000, C- in 2001, C in 2002, C- in 2003 and 2004, D in 2005 and 2006, and as Governor of Rhode Island, Chafee received a \"B\" rating, the National Taxpayers Union citing his move to repeal the Rhode Island franchise tax and reduce estate taxes. Also as Governor of Rhode Island, Chafee received grades of D in 2012 and B in 2014 from the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, in their biennial Fiscal Policy Report Card on America's Governors.\n\nIn 2001 and 2003, while in the U.S. Senate, Chafee voted against the Bush tax cuts arguing he was concerned they favored the highest income brackets and about unchecked growth in the federal deficit. Chafee said that \"cutting taxes is easy for politicians, we love to cut taxes. It takes responsibility to make sure our revenues match our expenditures and we're not doing that right now.\"\n\nChafee supports President Obama's nuclear disarmament agreement with Iran. He has called for deescalation combined with cultural dialogue and exchange modeled after \"the ping pong diplomacy of the Nixon era.\"\n\nChafee has criticized what he has characterized as a Biblical influence on U.S. policy with respect to Israel. He has said he opposes the expansion of Israeli settlements in the West Bank, but described Hamas as a \"violent organization with a genocidal charter\" one year after it revoked its charter calling for the destruction of Israel. In 2007, Chafee also stated that Israel's security was a paramount consideration in resolving the Arab-Israeli conflict. Chafee serves on the advisory council of J Street and has voted to continue foreign aid to the Israeli government, among others.\nReferring to Latin America, Chafee has called for the U.S. government to \"reenagage our neighbors.\" However, Chafee has also said recent U.S. inattention to the region was \"a blessing in disguise\" as it allowed democratic governments to flourish free of U.S. influence.\n\nChafee has said one of the U.S.' highest priorities should be improving relations with the Russian Federation and has called for rapprochement, including the lifting of sanctions against Russia. He has called the Ukrainian crisis a \"tug-of-war between Russia and the EU\" and said that the way to solve the issue was through Russian accession to the European Union.\n\nWhile serving in the United States Senate, Chafee was one of 23 senators, and the only Republican, to vote against the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq, which provided the legal mechanism for the 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq. When asked, in 2015, how the U.S. could most effectively deal with ISIS, Chafee said the U.S. should pursue a policy of containment through alliance-building with regional powers. Chafee has said the U.S. \"must make international decisions with brains and not biceps\", and at the first 2016 Democratic primary debate, stated that the U.S. must end its use of \"perpetual wars\", referring in part to the War on Terror. In his speech declaring his withdrawal from the 2016 Presidential race at the annual Women's Leadership Forum in Washington, DC, Chafee again made the case for peace, attacking the field of Republican candidates for demonstrating a lack of desire \"to understand anything about the Middle East and North Africa\" and instead espousing \"more bellicosity, more saber rattling, and more blind macho posturing.\" He ended the speech by reminding the audience that the United States was one of the strongest countries in history, economically, militarily, and culturally and so not only could afford to take risks for peace, but \"must take risks for peace.\" Arguing for a new paradigm, he concluded by asking the audience whether they wanted to be remembered as bombers of weddings and hospitals, or as peace makers.\n\nChafee endorsed George W. Bush in the 2000 U.S. presidential election, but declined to endorse Bush in the 2004 contest. In 2008 Chafee endorsed Barack Obama for U.S. president during the Democratic Party presidential primaries, and went on to serve as national co-chair of Obama's 2012 reelection campaign. During the 2014 election for governor of Rhode Island, which Chafee did not contest, he endorsed Clay Pell in the Democratic primary.\n\nChafee and his wife, Stephanie Birney (Danforth) Chafee, married in January 1990. They have three children: Louisa, Caleb, and Thea. Louisa qualified for the 2016 Summer Olympics in sailing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16124381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16124381", "title": "List of The Amazing Race (U.S. TV series) contestants", "text": "List of The Amazing Race (U.S. TV series) contestants\n\nThis is a list of contestants who have appeared on the American television series, \"The Amazing Race\". Contestants with a pre-existing relationship form a team and race around the world against other teams to claim a grand prize of 1 million USD. The original American series premiered in 2001; as of 2014, there have been 25 seasons aired with locations spanning all six inhabited continents. In total, 510 contestants have appeared in the series, with 22 of them competing again on \"The Amazing Race 11: All-Stars\" in 2007, another 22 competing again on \"The Amazing Race 18: Unfinished Business\" and another 22 also competing on \"The Amazing Race 24: All-Stars\". The series also aired a special season on \"The Amazing Race 8: Family Edition\" that contained 10 teams of four family members, including children as young as 8, while season 29 features 22 contestants who were all complete strangers.\n\nThe presented information was accurate at the time of filming.\n\n"}
{"id": "10430369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10430369", "title": "List of polyamorists", "text": "List of polyamorists\n\nThis is a list of notable and historic figures who have been or are polyamorous. Polyamory is the desire, practice, or acceptance of more than one strong, deep, close and true loving, romantic, and/or intimate relationship at a time, with the full knowledge and consent of all involved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20090802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20090802", "title": "List of winners of Premios Oye!", "text": "List of winners of Premios Oye!\n\nThe winners of Premios Oye! from 2002 to 2013\n\n\nSpecial Awards\n\n\n\n\nSpecial Awards\n\n\nSpecial Awards\n\n\nSpecial Awards\n\n\nSpecial Awards\n\n\n\nSpecial Awards\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50921286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50921286", "title": "Mamata Thapa", "text": "Mamata Thapa\n\nMamata Thapa (; born 13 September 1991) is a Nepalese wicketkeeper and Right-hand bat woman of Nepali National Cricket team.\n"}
{"id": "585657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=585657", "title": "Onuphrius", "text": "Onuphrius\n\nOnuphrius or Onoufrios (), venerated as Saint Onuphrius in both the Roman Catholic Church and Eastern Catholic Churches; Venerable Onuphrius in Eastern Orthodoxy and Saint Nofer the Anchorite in Oriental Orthodoxy, lived as a hermit in the desert of Upper Egypt in the 4th or 5th centuries.\n\nOnophrius was one of the Desert Fathers who made a great impression on Eastern spirituality in the third and fourth centuries, around the time that Christianity was emerging as the dominant faith of the Roman Empire. At this time many Christians were inspired to go out into the desert and live in prayer in the harsh environment of extreme heat and cold, with little to eat and drink, surrounded by all sorts of dangerous animals and robbers.\n\nIt is uncertain in which century Onuphrius lived; the account of Paphnutius the Ascetic, who encountered him in the Egyptian desert, forms the sole source for our knowledge of the life of Saint Onuphrius. Even the authorship is uncertain; \"Paphnutius\", a common name of Egyptian origin in the Upper Thebaid, may refer to Paphnutius of Scetis, a 4th-century abbot of Lower Egypt, rather than Paphnutius the Ascetic. \"But Paphnutius the Great [i.e. Paphnutius the Ascetic],\" Alban Butler writes, \"also had a number of stories to tell of visions and miraculous happenings in the desert, some of them in much the same vein as the story of Onuphrius.\"\n\nThe name Onuphrius is thought to be a Hellenized form of a Coptic name \"Unnufer\", ultimately from \nthe Egyptian: \"wnn-nfr\" meaning \"perfect one\", or \"he who is continually good\", an epithet of the god Osiris.\n\nA tradition, not found in Paphnutius' account, states that Onuphrius had studied jurisprudence and philosophy before becoming a monk near Thebes and then a hermit.\n\nAccording to Paphnutius’s account, Paphnutius undertook a pilgrimage to study the hermits’ way of life and to determine whether it was for him. Wandering in the desert for 16 days, on the 17th day, Paphnutius came across a wild figure covered in hair, wearing a loincloth of leaves. Frightened, Paphnutius ran away, up a mountain, but the figure called him back, shouting, “Come down to me, man of God, for I am a man also, dwelling in the desert for the love of God.”\n\nTurning back, Paphnutius talked to the wild figure, who introduced himself as Onuphrius and explained that he had once been a monk at a large monastery in the Thebaid but who had now lived as a hermit for 70 years, enduring extreme thirst, hunger, and discomforts. He said that it was his guardian angel who had brought him to this desolate place. Onuphrius took Paphnutius to his cell, and they spoke until sunset, when bread and water miraculously appeared outside of the hermit's cell.\n\nThey spent the night in the prayer, and in the morning Paphnutius discovered that Onuphrius was near death. Paphnutius, distressed, asked the hermit if he should occupy Onuphrius’ cell after the hermit’s death, but Onuphrius told him, \"That may not be, thy work is in Egypt with thy brethren.\" Onuphrius asked Paphnutius for there to be a memorial with incense in Egypt in remembrance of the hermit. He then blessed the traveler and died.\n\nDue to the hard and rocky ground, Paphnutius could not dig a hole for a grave, and therefore covered Onuphrius’ body in a cloak, leaving the hermit’s body in a cleft of the rocks. After the burial, Onuphrius’ cell crumbled, which Paphnutius took to be a sign that he should not stay.\n\nOne scholar has written that Onuphrius’ life \"fits the mold of countless desert hermits or anchorites... [However] despite its predictability, Paphnutius' \"Life of Onuphrius\" is marked by several unique details... the years of Onuphrius' youth were passed in a monastery that observed the rule of strict silence; a hind instructed him in Christian rites and liturgy. During his sixty years in the desert, Onuphrius' only visitor was an angel who delivered a Host every Sunday...\"\n\nBoth the Eastern Orthodox and Catholic Churches traditionally mark his feast day on 12 June. A \"Life\" of Onuphrius of later Greek origin states that the saint died on June 11; however, his feast day was celebrated on June 12 in the Eastern Orthodox calendars from an early date.\n\nThe legend of Saint Onuphrius was depicted in Pisa's camposanto (monumental cemetery), and in Rome, a church, Sant'Onofrio, was built in his honor on the Janiculan Hill in the fifteenth century.\n\nAntony, the archbishop of Novgorod, writing around 1200 AD, stated that Onuphrius’ head was conserved in the church of Saint Acindinus (Akindinos) (Constantinople).\n\nFor several decades Orthodox seminarians in Poland have begun their spiritual training in the monastery of St. Onuphrius in Jablechna. It is said that the saint himself chose the place for it, appearing nearly four hundred years ago to fishermen and leaving them an Icon of himself on the banks of the river Buh.\n\nThere is a monastery in Jerusalem dedicated to him. The monastery is located at the far end of Gai Ben Hinnom, the Gehenna valley of hell, further it is situated within the site of a Jewish Second Temple cemetery and is built among and includes many typical burial niches common to that period. The monastery also marks the location of Hakeldama, the purported place where Judas Iscariot hanged himself.\n\nSaint Onuphrius was venerated in Munich, Basel, and southern Germany, and the Basel humanist Sebastian Brant (who named his own son Onuphrius) published a broadside named \"In Praise of the Divine Onuphrius and Other Desert Hermit Saints\". Onuphrius was depicted in a 1520 painting by Hans Schäufelein.\n\nImages of Saint Onuphrius were conflated with those of the medieval “wild man\". In art, he is depicted as a wild man completely covered with hair, wearing a girdle of leaves.\n\nHe is depicted at Snake Church (\"Yilanlı Kilise\") in the Göreme valley open-air museum in Cappadocia, Turkey.\n\nHe became the patron saint of weavers due to the fact that he was depicted \"dressed only in his own abundant hair, and a loin-cloth of leaves\".\n\nHe (S. Onofrio) was named co-saint patron of the city of Palermo in 1650.\n\nHis name appears very variously as Onuphrius, Onouphrius, Onofrius; and in different languages as Onofre (Portuguese, Spanish), Onofrio (Italian), etc. In Arabic, the saint was known as \"Abū Nufir\" () or as \"Nofer\" (), which, besides being a variant of the name Onuphrius, also means \"herbivore.\"\nOnuphrius and Onofrio are sometimes Anglicized as Humphrey, an unrelated name that is usually given a Germanic etymology.\n\nSicilians pray to Saint Onuphrius when they have lost something. The prayer has many variants but it generally mentions the miraculous properties of Saint Onuphrius' hair . It is widely accepted that repeating the prayer whilst looking for something like keys, a misplaced ring or anything else, will greatly help in finding it sooner.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2452757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2452757", "title": "Robert Macaire", "text": "Robert Macaire\n\nRobert Macaire is a fictional character, an unscrupulous swindler, who appears in a number of French plays, films, and other works of art. In French culture he represents an archetypal villain. He was principally the creation of an actor, Frédérick Lemaître, who took the stock figure of \"a ragged tramp, a common thief with tattered frock coat patched pants\" and transformed him during his performances into \"the dapper confidence man, the financial schemer, the juggler of joint-stock companies\" that could serve to lampoon financial speculation and government corruption.\n\nPlaywright Benjamin Antier (1787–1870), with two collaborators Saint-Amand and Polyanthe, created the character Robert Macaire in the play \"l'Auberge des Adrets\", a serious-minded melodrama. After the work's failure at its 1823 premiere, Frédérick Lemaître played the role as a comic figure instead. Violating all the conventions of its genre, it became a comic success and ran for a hundred performances. The transformation violated social standards that demanded crime be treated with seriousness and expected criminals to be punished appropriately. The play was soon banned, and representations of the character of Macaire were banned time and again until the 1880s. Lemaître used the character again in a sequel he co-authored titled \"Robert Macaire\", first presented in 1835.\n\nThe British author George William MacArthur Reynolds authored a penny dreadful entitled \"Robert Macaire; or, The French Bandit in England\" (1839).\n\nThe book \"Physiologie du Robert-Macaire\" (1842) written by Pierre-Joseph Rousseau (1797–1849) and illustrated by Honoré Daumier identified Macaire with a variety of contemporary social types, all involved in \"shady schemes for instant wealth\", and especially Émile de Girardin (1806-1881), a businessman who promoted his financial adventures through his own newspaper, \"La Presse\". Daumier also published a series of a hundred lithographs of Macaire in \"Charivari\" between 1836 and 1842.\n\nEdward Jakobowski based his comic opera \"Erminie\" on an English translation of the play \" Robert Macaire\". It premiered in London in 1885. It had a considerable success. Its first New York production ran for 571 performances.\n\nTwo silent films used the character Macaire: \"Robert Macaire and Bertrand\" (1906) and \"The Adventures of Robert Macaire\" (1925).\n\nThe French film \"Les Enfants du Paradis\" (1945), set in the 1830s, presents Pierre Brasseur as Lemaître playing the role of Macaire.\n\n\"La Robert-Macaire\" was the name of a popular dance, mentioned along with the cancan in an 1841 play.\n\nFrench cuisine includes a vegetarian potato dish called \"pommes de terre Macaire\".\n\nBefore Lemaître created his politically-charged Macaire character, the name Robert Macaire was associated with a figure in a 14th-century legend who was required to engage in trail-by-combat with a dog. A melodrama called \"Le Chien de Montargis, ou la Forêt de Bondy\" premiered in Paris on 18 June 1814 and ran until 1834. It was translated into English and German. In an English-language compendium of oddities published in 1869, Macaire murders a man in the forest of Bondy on the outskirts of Paris. The only witness to survive in the victim's dog. King Charles V orders a trial by combat and the dog defeats Macaire, which leads to Macaire's conviction and hanging.\n\n"}
{"id": "38877278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38877278", "title": "Roy Fagan", "text": "Roy Fagan\n\nRoy Frederick Fagan (28 December 1905 – 18 July 1990) was an Australian Labor Party politician, who was Deputy Premier of Tasmania from 1959 to 1969.\n\nFagan was born in Waratah, Tasmania in 1905, the eldest son of James Fagan and Annie Theresa Breheney. His younger siblings were two brothers, Kevin and Vin, and a sister, Sheila. His Catholic mother sent him to St Virgil's College in Hobart to be schooled, although his Catholicism lapsed once he moved out of home and he was later known to be an agnostic who did not attend Mass.\n\nOn leaving school, Fagan joined the staff of the Commonwealth Bank where he worked until 1929, when he resigned to attend university.\n\nIn 1930, Fagan commenced studies for a law degree at the University of Tasmania. In 1931, he was articled to the firm Gatenby, Johnson & Walker, and in May 1934 he graduated and was admitted to the Bachelor of Laws (LLB). During his studies, he had taken a keen interest in all aspects of university life, and was heavily involved with the Tasmania University Union, serving as the body's president for three years. He was admitted to the Bar in August 1934, after what the Hobart \"Mercury\" newspaper called a \"brilliant university career\". Fagan also completed a Bachelor of Arts and graduated in May 1935.\n\nFagan was asked by the Premier of Tasmania, Robert Cosgrove, to stand for the seat of Wilmot at the Tasmanian state election, 1946. Immediately following declaration of his election, Fagan was appointed Attorney-General in Cosgrove's cabinet.\n\nOn 8 December 1925, aged 19, Fagan married Estelle Cooney, a shop assistant, in Wynyard. Cooney was pregnant at the time of their marriage, but did not live with Fagan between the time of the daughter's birth or afterwards. Fagan, although he remained married to Estelle, from the early 1930s was in a domestic relationship with fellow university student Mavis Smith. When Estelle died in 1946, Fagan married Smith at a Catholic church in Bellerive on 28 January 1947. They would have three sons.\n"}
{"id": "46974534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46974534", "title": "Satyanarayana Rajguru", "text": "Satyanarayana Rajguru\n\nSatyanarayana Rajguru was an Indian litterateur, epigraphist and historian. He was a curator and epigraphist at the Odisha State Museum and was a recipient of Sahitya Akademi Award, \"Bharati Bhushan\" award, Ganjam Sahitya Sammilani award, Odisha Sahitya Academy Award and \"Sarala Sanman\". The Government of India awarded him the fourth highest Indian civilian award of Padma Shri in 1974.\n\nBorn on 19 August 1903 to Harikrushna Rajguru and Sunamani Devi in the Indian state of Odisha, Rajguru passed the \"Oriya and Sanskrit\" title examination from Andhra University and started his career in 1929 as the manager of \"Parala Padmanabha Rangalaya\", the first theatre in Odisha, founded by Padmanabha Narayan Deb, erstwhile Raja of the state of Parala. During his tenure there, he was associated with the activities of Utkal Sammilani and assisted Krushna Chandra Gajapati in the formation of Odisha state in 1937; he is known to have submitted a thesis on the state reorganization.\n\nRajguru, after his tenure as the president of the Ganjam District Education Council (1942–45), worked as an assistant at the Kalinga Historical Research Society at Bhawanipatna from 1947 and later, joined Odisha State Museum to work as a curator (1950–61) and later as an epigraphist (1963–70). He was a member of the working committee of Odisha Sahitya Academy and the chairman of Paralakhemundi Municipality. He was a life member of Berhampur University and was awarded DLitt by the university.\n\nRajguru is known to have done notable research on the history of Odisha and is credited with findings on the early of life of Jayadeva, the thirteenth century Sanskrit poet and the author of Gita Govinda. He translated \"The Palanquin Bearers\", a poem by Sarojini Naidu into Odia language under the name, \"Palinki Bahaka\" and has published several other works, some of which are prescribed text for university studies.\n\nSatyanarayana Rajguru died on 11 June 1997 at the age of 93, his wife Taramani Devi preceding him in death by one year. He is survived by his sons Gopeshwar rajguru, Radha Raman rajguru and sitakant rajguru.\n\nRajguru was awarded the civilian honour Padma Shri in 1974 by the Government of India. He received the Sahitya Akademi Award for his autobiography, \"Mo Jeevana Sangrama\" in 1996. He was also a recipient of \"Bharati Bhushan\" award from Andhra Mahasabha, Ganjam Sahitya Sammilani award (1968) and Odisha Sahitya Academy award (1968). A recipient of \"Sarala Sanman\" (1989) from Sarala Sansad,\n\n"}
{"id": "39573445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39573445", "title": "Seth MacFarlane filmography", "text": "Seth MacFarlane filmography\n\nSeth MacFarlane is an American actor, animator, writer, producer, director, comedian, and singer. MacFarlane began his career as an animator and writer for Hanna-Barbera for several television series, including \"Johnny Bravo\", \"Cow and Chicken\", \"Dexter's Laboratory\", \"I Am Weasel\", and created a sequel to his college thesis film \"Larry & Steve\".\n\nSince 1999, MacFarlane has served has creator, writer, executive producer, and lead voice actor in the adult animated sitcom \"Family Guy\" on FOX. He voices the characters of Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin, Brian Griffin and among other characters. The series has garnered critical acclaim with critics and audiences and has won numerous awards. Since then MacFarlane has co-created, co-writes, executive produces, and lead voices in FOX's \"American Dad!\" and wrote, co-created, executive produced, and had a supporting voice role in \"The Cleveland Show\", which was a spin-off of \"Family Guy\". In 2012, MacFarlane made his feature film directorial debut with \"Ted\", a fantasy comedy which was well received by critics and audiences. He went on to act, write, produce, and direct two features for Universal Studios—the western comedy \"A Million Ways to Die in the West\" (2014) and a sequel to his first film \"Ted 2\" (2015). In 2017, MacFarlane created his fourth show, \"The Orville\". He has also appeared in the films \"\" (2008), \"\" (2009), \"\" (2010), \"Tooth Fairy\" (2010), \"Movie 43\" (2013), \"Sing\" (2016), and \"Logan Lucky\" (2017).\n\nMacFarlane has received numerous awards and nominations for his work on film, television, music, and video games. He has also received twenty Emmy Award nominations, winning four for \"Family Guy\". His directorial film debut in \"Ted\" earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Original Song. In addition, he has received four Grammy Award nominations and two British Academy of Film and Television Arts among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "12236175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12236175", "title": "Sherman H. Dudley", "text": "Sherman H. Dudley\n\nSherman Houston Dudley (1872 – March 1, 1940) was an African-American vaudeville performer and theatre entrepreneur. He gained notability in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century as an individual performer, a composer of ragtime songs, and as a member and later owner of various minstrel shows including the Smart Set. Dudley is also notable as one of the first African Americans to combine business with theater, by starting a black theater circuit, in which theaters were owned or operated by African Americans and provided entertainment by and for African Americans.\n\nReportedly, Dudley was born in 1872 in Dallas, Texas (some sources list his year of birth as 1870 or 1873), \"of humble parentage\". A jockey early in his youth, he turned to theater and gained a reputation by singing in a medicine show on a Dallas street corner, singing \"Dese Bones G'wine Rise Again\". By 1897 he had his own show, the \"S. H. Dudley's Georgia Minstrels\", who were performing in Galveston; later that same year he was on tour with P. T. Wright's Nashville Students Company. He gained a reputation for writing popular coon songs (including a hit song called \"Mr. Coon, You'se Too Black For Me\"), and performed with a number of minstrel comedians in shows in the same vein, including \"A Holiday in Coonville\" (his own production) and \"Coontown Golf Club\" (a production by Tom Brown and Sam Cousins). When he toured with Tom Brown and Billy Kersands in 1902, it was clear that he was a popular, well-known artist in the South, and was billed as \"the Lone-Star comedian\". In 1903 he married Alberta Ormes, with whom he'd been performing since at least 1901, and was on tour the following year with Richard and Pringle's Georgia Minstrels. By this time, he received star billing. In the summer of 1904, however, he left that company and moved to Chicago to take over the leading role in Gus Hill's Smart Set after the death of Tom McIntosh, performing in the show \"A Southern Enchantment\".\n\nDudley performed with the Smart Set for years with great success, though one critic, Sylvester Russell (a writer for the \"Indianapolis Freeman\"), was hard on him from the beginning, presumably because he felt that Dudley's minstrel show background made him unworthy; in 1906, Russell referred to him as \"this loathsome comedian who hails from the Lone Star State.\" It seems that Dudley took all this in stride until 1911, when Russell made a comment about Dudley's son, after which Dudley beat him up \"$5,000 worth\", according to Russell; Dudley was arrested and fined $1 and court costs, after which Russell sued him for $5,000. Other critics were less hesitant to praise Dudley's performance, and he is now credited with having brought \"the street to the stage\": \"Dudley revitalized the Smart Set and made it into an enduring classic of the American popular stage.\" In the next Smart Set show, \"The Black Politician\" (1906), Dudley got to use his jockey skills riding a horse on stage, and when in October 1906 a donkey named Shamus O'Brien was added (though another source lists the donkey's name as \"Patrick\"), the donkey and Dudley received high praise from critics, even from Russell.\n\nIn 1909, the Smart Set split up in a Northern and a Southern Smart Set, the first being directed by Dudley and the latter by his understudy, Salem Tutt Whitney; their 1909-10 production, \"His Honor, the Barber\" was written by a white playwright, Edwin Handford, with music written for the show by black composers James Tim Brymn, Chris Smith, and James Burris. The show opened in New Jersey for a mixed audience, and by the time of the final run Aida Overton Walker had joined the cast. By this time, Dudley was widely known as the \"Lone Star Comedian\" and had begun to expand his business ventures, moving into theater in an attempt to have a black-owned and operated string of venues around the United States, a dream of his since at least 1907.\n\nBy about 1910 Dudley was based in Washington D.C., where he served as general manager and treasurer of the Colored Actors' Union. In 1911 he set up S. H. Dudley Theatrical Enterprises, and began buying and leasing theaters to develop the first black vaudeville circuit, initially around Washington and Virginia; he had bought his first theater, in Baltimore, in 1912. In August 1912, he played his last season with the Smart Set, from then on devoting himself to his \"circuit of theaters.\" By 1916 the \"Dudley Circuit\" had extended into the south and Midwest, enabling black entertainers to secure longer term contracts for an extended season; his circuit provided the basis for the Theater Owners Bookers Association (TOBA). His circuit was advertised in a weekly column published in black newspapers, \"What's What on the Dudley's Circuit\", and by 1914 it included over twenty theaters, \"all owned or operated by blacks and as far south as Atlanta.\" TOBA was founded by people associated with Dudley's circuit, and while the organization was white-owned it had black regional managers, including Dudley (for the Washington, D.C. area).\n\nAfter 1917 Dudley devoted himself to producing black musicals, including updated Smart Set productions. He sold his theaters around 1930 (due to economic forces \"beyond his control\"), and retired to a farm in Maryland where he bred thoroughbred racehorses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2040918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2040918", "title": "Stephanie Swift", "text": "Stephanie Swift\n\nStephanie Swift (born February 7, 1972) is an American former pornographic actress who starred in over 300 adult movies between 1995 and 2009, when she was diagnosed with breast cancer and left the industry. She is a member of both the AVN and XRCO Halls of Fame. Swift now works with XXXchurch.com, a Christian outreach group that offers to help pornographic actors leave the industry and help compulsive porn users overcome their porn addiction.\n\nSwift spent her childhood in Louisiana. She is one-quarter Filipino. Between the ages of one and fourteen, she suffered sexual abuse at the hands of family members. At the age of 19, she lived in San Diego, California and worked as a stripper for six months at a club called The Body Shop\n\nAfter earning her degree, she posed in nude modelling photographs for five years and was featured in \"Club International\". Swift segued from nude model work to Southern California's adult film industry, where she began her career in 1995. Her first softcore scene was in Playboy TV's \"Up Close and Dangerous\". Her first hardcore sex scene was in \"Space Sirens\". She went on to win several awards, including the AVN Female Performer of the Year Award in 1998. She was, for a period, a contract girl with Wicked Pictures.\n\nShe has made appearances on the exotic dancing circuit as a featured performer. In 2004, she launched her own production company called \"Swift Entertainment\", in which she was a director, screenwriter and producer.\n\nSwift was inducted into the AVN Hall of Fame in 2006 and the XRCO Hall of Fame in 2008.\n\nIn 2011, Swift released a video filmed for XXXchurch.com in which she said her cancer had been in remission since March 2010, and she explained her decision to quit the adult film industry. She said the industry gives a \"false sense of accomplishment.\" She is currently working with the church in their efforts to reach out to pornographic film actors.\n\nAn August 2009 XBIZ press release announced that Swift had been diagnosed with breast cancer in her left breast and asked for donations to help with her medical bills. Later that month, she had a double mastectomy. By March 2010, she had completed chemotherapy and scheduled lymph node surgery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "950123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=950123", "title": "Tanni Grey-Thompson", "text": "Tanni Grey-Thompson\n\nCarys Davina Grey-Thompson, Baroness Grey-Thompson, DBE, DL (born 26 July 1969), known as Tanni Grey-Thompson, is a British politician, television presenter and former wheelchair racer. She has also been the Chancellor of Northumbria University since July 2015.\n\nGrey-Thompson was born with spina bifida and is a wheelchair user. She is one of the most successful disabled athletes in the UK. She graduated from Loughborough University in 1991 with a BA (Hons) degree in Politics and Social Administration.\n\nGrey-Thompson's Paralympic career started in the 100m at the Junior National Games for Wales in 1984.\n\nHer international career began in 1988 in Seoul, where she won a bronze medal in the 400m. As a young athlete she also competed in wheelchair basketball. Her fifth and last Paralympic Games were in Athens (2004) where she won two gold medals in wheelchair racing in the 100m and 400m. In total in her Paralympic career she won 16 medals (11 gold, four silver and a bronze) and also 13 World Championship medals (six gold, five silver and two bronze).\n\nOn 27 February 2007 Grey-Thompson announced her pending retirement, with her last appearance for Great Britain at May's Paralympic World Cup in Manchester.\n\nOver her career she won a total of 16 Paralympic medals, including 11 golds, held over 30 world records and won the London Marathon six times between 1992 and 2002.\n\nIn preparation for her retirement from the track, she expanded her television presenting career on BBC Wales and S4C, as well as BBC One. During her competitive career she sat on the board of the National Disability Council, The Sports Council for Wales, the English Lottery Awards Panel and UK Sport., and also sat for three years on the Mission 2012 panel (part of UK Sport).\n\nGrey-Thompson currently sits on the board of the London Marathon (2007), the board of Transport for London (since 2008) and the London Legacy Development Corporation. She is Chair of the Women's Sports and Fitness Foundation Commission on the Future of Women's Sport. She chairs the board of ukactive.\n\nGrey-Thompson is patron of numerous charities including Sportsleaders UK, a trustee of V, the Duke of Edinburgh Awards scheme, Sportsaid Foundation and the Wembley Stadium Legacy Trust. She is an Academy member of the Laureus World Sport Academy and a trustee of the Sport for Good Foundation. She is also a Council member for the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust and an International Inspiration Ambassador.\n\nAs well as this she is the Patron of the Tees Wheelyboats Club, a group providing disabled people with access to the River Tees, and a board member of the Tony Blair Sports Foundation.\n\nIn July 2011 Grey-Thompson was announced as the President of the Leadership 20:20 Commission, the Commission on the future leadership of Civil Society. She launched the Commission's recommendations in Parliament on 14 December 2011.\n\nGrey-Thompson has also been the Chancellor of Northumbria University since July 2015.\n\nOn 23 March 2010, Grey-Thompson was created a Life Peer on the recommendation of the House of Lords Appointments Commission (HOLAC). Despite previously suggesting a desire for a title with a Welsh connection, her title was conferred as Baroness Grey-Thompson, of Eaglescliffe in the County of Durham on 23 March 2010.\n\nGrey-Thompson was introduced in the House of Lords on 29 March, swearing the oath of allegiance in both English and Welsh and sits as a crossbencher.\n\nIn Aug 2014, Grey-Thompson was one of 200 public figures who were signatories to a letter to \"The Guardian\" opposing Scottish independence in the run-up to September's referendum on that issue.\n\nIn 1993 she was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) for \"services to sport\", advanced in 2000 to Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) again for \"services to sport\" and then in 2005 was promoted to Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE).\n\nShe has received numerous honorary degrees including Honorary Doctorates from Oxford University, the University of Greenwich, Bath University, Newcastle University, Oxford Brookes University, Liverpool John Moores, the University of Leicester, Sheffield Hallam University, University of Hull, University of Exeter, Heriot Watt University, the Open University, University of Wales Newport, the University of Wales, Leeds Metropolitan University, Loughborough University (both a Master and Doctorate), Teesside University, York and Ripon College, University of Swansea, University of Glamorgan, UWIC, University of Surrey, Southampton University, Manchester Metropolitan University, Staffordshire University and Cardiff University. Grey-Thompson received a Lifetime Achievement Award and another Honorary Doctorate from the University of East London in May 2011, at the university's annual Sports Award evening held at West Ham United's Upton Park stadium.\n\nGrey-Thompson was named the BBC Wales Sports Personality of the Year three times; in 1992, 2000 and 2004. In 2000, she came third in the BBC Sports Personality of the Year, behind Steve Redgrave and Denise Lewis. That year she also received the Helen Rollason Award for her performance at the 2000 Summer Paralympics. In August 2009, she was made a member of the Gorsedd at the 2009 National Eisteddfod in Bala, Gwynedd.\n\nWillenhall School Sports College, West Midlands has named a house in her honour, where each of the eight houses is named after influential sports stars and local heroes. Roundwood Park School set up a house system in 2011. In July 2012, the blue house became Grey-Thompson house.\n\nIn November 2012 she was appointed to the three-person commission that has been set up by the Union Cycliste Internationale to investigate the Lance Armstrong doping affair.\n\nIn February 2013 she was assessed as one of the 100 most powerful women in the United Kingdom by \"Woman's Hour\" on BBC Radio 4.\n\nIn July 2013, she received another honorary Doctor of Science (HonDSc) in recognition of her outstanding service to disability and to disadvantaged people, and to her promotion of sport and the Paralympics.\n\nOn 15 June 2016 she was awarded the degree of Doctor of Law (honoris causa) by the University of Cambridge.\n\nGrey-Thompson attended St Cyres Comprehensive School. She is married to Ian Thompson, a research chemist and former wheelchair athlete. They live at Eaglescliffe, County Durham; they have one daughter.\n\nShe was christened Carys Davina Grey, but her sister referred to her as \"tiny\" when she first saw her, pronouncing it \"tanni\"; the nickname stuck.\n\nHer autobiography \"Seize the Day\" was published by Hodder and Stoughton in 2001.\n\nShe is a patron of Zoё's Place Baby Hospice, a charity for sick babies and young children. Grey-Thompson is also patron of the Guernsey Disability Alliance.\n\n\nNote - #British Disabled Flying Association (2005). Dame Tanni Grey-Thompson OBE, MBE – new patron for the BDFA. Retrieved 31 December 2005\n\n"}
{"id": "8657945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8657945", "title": "The Fourteen Infallibles", "text": "The Fourteen Infallibles\n\nThe Fourteen Infallibles ( \" Ma‘sūmūn\") ( \" Chahar'dah Ma‘sūm\") in Twelver Shia Islam are the Islamic prophet Muhammad, his daughter Fatima Zahra, and the Twelve Imams. All are considered to be infallible under the theological concept of Ismah. Accordingly, they have the power to commit sin but by their nature are able to avoid doing so, which is regarded as a miraculous gift from God. The Infallibles are believed to follow only God's desire in their actions because of their supreme righteousness, consciousness, and love for God. They are also regarded as being immune to error in practical matters, in calling people to religion, and in the perception of divine knowledge. Shias believe the Fourteen Infallibles are superior to the rest of creation and to the other major prophets.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34191221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34191221", "title": "Thomas Treadwell Stone", "text": "Thomas Treadwell Stone\n\nThomas Treadwell Stone (February 9, 1801 – November, 1895) was an American Unitarian pastor, abolitionist, and Transcendentalist.\n\nThomas Treadwell Stone was born on February 9, 1801 in Waterford, Maine to Solomon Stone and Hepzibah Treadwell Stone. His maternal grandfather, Thomas Treadwell, served with the Minutemen and was at the battle of Bunker Hill with Colonel William Prescott's regiment. At that time Waterford was an area of new and sparsely populated farmland, and Solomon Stone made his living as a farmer. Thomas attended Bridgton Academy and graduated from Bowdoin College in 1820.\n\nThomas married Laura Elizabeth Poor in January 1825 in Andover, Maine . Laura's brother Henry Varnum Poor was a financial analyst and founder of H.V. and H.W. Poor Co., which later evolved into the financial research and analysis bellwether, Standard & Poor's. Thomas and Laura's marriage produced 7 sons (Thomas, Walter, Henry, Lincoln, Alfred, George, and William) and five daughters (two Lauras, Mary, Martha, and Elizabeth). After studying theology and performing missionary work in Oxford County, Maine, he was ordained in at the Orthodox Congregational Church in Andover, a traditional Congregational church. In this most northwesterly town then organized in Maine, he served under a Dr. Tappan from 1824 to 1830. From 1830 to 1832 he headed Bridgton Academy in Maine. Among his students was John Albion Andrew, the radical abolitionist, who would become Governor of Massachusetts during the Civil War years.\n\nFrom 1832 to 1846 Stone and his family resided in East Machias, Maine,where he was pastor of the Union Church. As seen by his writing and lectures during this time, Stone became an early convert to abolitionism. As early as the 1830s Thomas Stone was exhorting his congregation that slavery was a national problem. \"It was the duty of all Christians\", according to Stone, \"to do our utmost in resisting [slavery], through the Spirit of Christ.\" East Machias was home to many intellectuals at that time, and his church members included many who later took on theological leadership positions in New England educational institutions. Among them were Samuel Harris (President of Bowdoin College and Professor of Theology at Yale Divinity School), Roswell Dwight Hitchcock (President, Union Theological Seminary), Ezra Abbott (Harvard Divinity School), George Harris (Andover Theological School), and Arlo Bates (professor at MIT). Stone lectured for the Massachusetts England Anti-slavery Society, and was a delegate to the 1839 annual meeting of that group. His sermon \"The Martyr of Freedom\", a discourse delivered at East Machias, in 1837, condemned the killing of Elijah Lovejoy, Stone's friend and an anti-slavery publisher in Illinois. Lovejoy was a Presbyterian minister editing anti-slavery newspapers in Missouri until his presses were destroyed by mobs. Lovejoy was killed during an attempt to burn his office in Alton, Illinois. In his sermon Stone urged his listeners to \"proclaim the truth of slavery, not only to peers, but to the slaveholder.\" Slavery, he stated, not only destroys those who witness truth but the nation and slaveholder as well.\n\nThese strong abolitionist viewpoints led to Stone's ousting as a Congregationalist minister in 1844. In 1846 he moved his family from Maine to Massachusetts to become pastor of the First Church of Salem (Massachusetts, Unitarian), where he served until 1852. During this time he was able to build his anti-slavery fervor, as evidenced by frequent visits by the elite of the movement, including Amos Bronson Alcott, Ralph Waldo Emerson, John Greenleaf Whittier, William Lloyd Garrison, and Wendell Phillips.\n\nReactions among many New Englanders to the passage of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 was mixed, but to those who opposed slavery it was fierce. Discontent among Stone's parishioners at First Church in Salem rose as he became more involved with the fugitive slave issue. In August 1851, Stone was formally terminated. His fate was similar to other New England theologians, many who resigned or were dismissed for supporting the anti-slavery cause.\n\nIn December 1851 Stone addressed the Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society in Salem, of which his wife, Laura Poor Stone, was a member (an abolition quilt she created there is owned by the Peabody Essex Museum.). During this last recorded public address, he emphasized that slavery was irreconcilable with man being created in God's image, and urged his listeners to know the effects of slavery and pray for its end. During this speech he acknowledged the sadness and pains suffered by the anti-slavery community by being rejected, denounced and ridiculed by friends, family and church, and thanked them for standing firm for the cause. Stone and his family moved to Bolton, Massachusetts in November, 1852 where he became the 7th minister of the First Parish of Bolton.\n\nThomas Treadwell Stone, though lesser-known than the other New England Transcendentalists, \"had religious, literary, and reform connections to nearly all of the major Transcendentalists and contributed to the DIAL magazine in the early 1840's.\" His essay \"Man and the Ages\" was included in the January 1841 issue, and his \"Calvinist's Letter\" was published a year later. \"Stone began regular contact with the Boston Transcendentalists and attended meetings of the Transcendental Club, the first organized meeting of people interested in the new philosophy.\" Amos Bronson Alcott numbered him with the members of the Transcendental Club, but it is unknown which meetings he may have attended. Stone was a ready convert to Transcendentalism and an indefatigable worker for the cause of reform.\n\nIn 1859 Thomas and his wife Laura moved to Brooklyn, Connecticut and became pastor of the Unitarian Universalist Church there in 1860. \nThe Civil War's anti-slavery theme must have given hope and courage to Stone. Four of his sons enlisted in the Army of the Potomac, three at the outset and one later. His son William was wounded at Antietam in September 1862, and again at Gettysburg in 1863 as part of the Nineteenth Massachusetts. William had obvious abolitionist fervor as well, as he was appointed to the Freedmen's Bureau in March 1866, \"probably because of his whole-hearted commitment to black rights\". William also served briefly as the Attorney General for South Carolina. Thomas's son Lincoln Ripley Stone, was a Surgeon in the 54th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment. Infantry (the first black regiment). He later practiced medicine in Newton, Massachusetts. Son George Herbert Stone served as a Private in Co. I, 38th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and died in service in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in 1863. Son Henry served as 2d Lieutenant in the 1st Wisconsin Volunteers, and later as Lieutenant Colonel of the 100th U. S. Colored Troops. His son Alfred was a noted architect in Providence, RI.\n\nIn 1866 Stone received a Doctor of Divinity degree from Bowdoin, his Alma Mater. During his later years he preached and gave lyceum lectures occasionally. Stone returned to Bolton in 1871 where he spent his final years writing. He died in Bolton in November, 1895. The funeral was held in First Church, Salem, and he and his wife are buried in Harmony Grove Cemetery in that city.\n\n\"An address on the introduction of historical studies into the course of common education : delivered before Oxford County Lyceum\", H. King, Printer, 1831\n\n\"Christianity fitted for universal diffusion : a sermon, delivered in North Yarmouth [Me.], June 28, 1837, before the Maine Missionary Society, at its thirtieth anniversary, Portland [Me.]\" : Merrill and Byram, 1837\n\n\"Influence of intemperance on the moral sensibility: an address delivered at the organization of the Oxford Temperance Society, Norway, July 1, 1829.\" \n\n\"The rod and the staff\", Boston : [s.n.], 1856\n\n\"The martyr of freedom : a discourse delivered at East Machias, November 30, and at Machias, December 7, 1837 (1838)\" \n\n\"Roger Williams, the prophetic legislator, a paper read before the Rhode Island historical society, November 8, 1871\" \n\n"}
{"id": "21876112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21876112", "title": "Vlasa Mgeladze", "text": "Vlasa Mgeladze\n\nVlasa Mgeladze (; , \"Vlasa Dzharismanovich Mgeladze\"), alias Tria (Russian: Триа) (1868 – 1943), was a Georgian social democratic revolutionary and a Bolshevik-turned-Menshevik also known as a participant of the Persian Constitutional Revolution, of which he wrote a valuable account. \n\nMgeladze was an active participant of the Russian Revolution of 1905 and the Persian Constitutional Revolution. In 1910, he authored a special report “The Caucasian Social-Democrats in the Persian Revolution” which was sent to the 12th International Socialist Congress in Copenhagen at Lenin's urgent request. The report was published in 1910-1911 in Paris and then republished in 1925. His complete memoirs were published in Paris in 1974. \n\nIn 1912, Mgeladze, together with Grigol Uratadze, was part of the Georgian delegation to Vienna, where Leon Trotsky organized his short-lived union of social democratic factions as an alternative to Lenin’s narrow notion of party unity. After the 1917 October Revolution which swept the Bolsheviks to power, Mgeladze withdrew into energetic opposition to Lenin and returned to his native Georgia, where he became involved in the politics of the independent Democratic Republic of Georgia whose government made him a commissar for the People’s Guard of Georgia. The 1921 invasion by the Soviet Russian army forced Mgeladze into exile to France, where he died in 1943. \n"}
{"id": "26357683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26357683", "title": "Ya'akov Asher", "text": "Ya'akov Asher\n\nYa'akov Asher (; born 2 July 1965) is an Israeli rabbi and politician who currently serves as a member of the Knesset for the United Torah Judaism alliance. A member of the Degel HaTorah party, he previously served as a member of the Knesset between 2013 and 2015, and was also the thirteenth mayor of Bnei Brak, having taken office in 2008.\n\nYa'akov Asher was born and raised in Ramat Gan. He served in the Israel Defense Forces. Asher is married, with seven children.\n\nAsher ran for mayor of El'ad, but lost to Tzuriel Krispel. He became mayor of Bnei Brak in 2008, after 19 years on the city council. He became mayor without an election in the wake of an agreement between Degel HaTorah and Agudat Yisrael to share the post of mayor on an alternating basis.\n\nPrior to the 2013 Knesset elections, he was placed seventh on the United Torah Judaism list, and entered the Knesset as the alliance won seven seats. His election to the Knesset meant he had to resign his mayoral position. He was placed seventh on the UTJ list again for the 2015 elections, but lost his seat when the alliance was reduced to six seats. However, he re-entered the Knesset in May 2016 as a replacement for Meir Porush, when he stood down as part of a seat rotation agreement between the parties in United Torah Judaism.\n"}
{"id": "1141184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1141184", "title": "Óengus of Tallaght", "text": "Óengus of Tallaght\n\nÓengus mac Óengobann, better known as Saint Óengus of Tallaght or Óengus the Culdee, was an Irish bishop, reformer and writer, who flourished in the first quarter of the 9th century and is held to be the author of the \"Félire Óengusso\" (\"Martyrology of Óengus\") and possibly the \"Martyrology of Tallaght\".\n\nLittle of Óengus's life and career is reliably attested. The most important sources include internal evidence from the \"Félire\", a later Middle Irish preface to that work, a biographic poem beginning \"Aíbind suide sund amne\" (\"Delightful to sit here thus\") and the entry for his feast-day inserted into the \"Martyrology of Tallaght\".\n\nHe was known as a son of Óengoba and grandson of Oíblén, who is mentioned in a later genealogy as belonging to the Dál nAraidi, a ruling kindred in the north-east of Ireland. A late account prefaced to the Martyrology asserts that Óengus was born in Clúain Édnech or Eidnech (Clonenagh, Co. Laois), not far from the present town of Mountrath, and brought up at the monastic school founded there by St Fintan, where also his body was buried. The claim may be spurious, since the \"Félire\" itself accords no such importance to the monastic foundation or its patron saint St Fintan.\n\nIt is sufficiently clear that Óengus became a cleric, since he describes himself as such in the \"Félire\" using the more humble appellation of \"pauper\" (\"pauperán\" and \"deidblén\" in Old Irish). He was an important member of the community founded by St. Máel Ruain at Tallaght (now in South Dublin), in the borderlands of Leinster. Máel Ruain is described as his mentor (\"aite\", also \"fosterfather\"). There are reasons for believing that Óengus was ordained to the office of bishop, a denomination which is first assigned to him in a list of saints inserted into the \"Martyrology of Tallaght\" (see below). If so, his influence may well have extended to the reformed communities which were associated with Tallaght, many of which were founded in Óengus's lifetime. In fact, two such monasteries in Co. Limerick and Co. Laois, both of them known as Dísert Óengusa (\"Óengus's Hermitage\"), bear his memory in name.\n\nThe literary effort most commonly attributed to Óengus is the Old Irish work known as \"Félire Óengusso\" (\"Martyrology of Óengus\"), which is the earliest metrical martyrology — a register of saints and their feast days – to have been written in the vernacular. The work survives in at least ten manuscripts, the earliest being Leabhar Breac of the early 15th century.\n\nThe martyrology proper consists of 365 quatrains, one for each day of the year, and is framed between a lengthy prologue and epilogue. Later scribes added a prose preface, including material on Óengus, and accompanied the text with abundant glosses and scholia. Óengus's principal source was the \"Martyrology of Tallaght\", an abbreviated version in prose of the \"Martyrologium Hieronymianum\", but with a multitude of Irish saints added to their respective feastdays. Other sources are given in the epilogue as an \"antigraph of Jerome, the martyrology of Eusebius\" and \"Ireland's host of books.\"\n\nThe precise date of the original composition has proved difficult to ascertain. The usual method of determining a \"terminus post quem\" has been to argue from the careers of saints and kings referred to in the text, many of whom remain obscure. The \"terminus ante quem\" is a different game. In view of the selective nature of the \"Félire\", arguments from silence have little to recommend it, at least in individual cases. What would have been instructive, the year of Óengus's death, is unknown, but his education by Máel Ruain (d. 792) must at least mean that he did not outlive the 9th century.\n\nThe one thing that is usually accepted is that it was written no earlier than 797, when one of the rulers described in the prologue as having deceased, Donnchad mac Domnaill, king of Tara, died. Rudolf Thurneysen postulated a date before 808 on grounds that the reference to the death of Bran Ardchenn mac Muiredaig (d. probably 795), king of Leinster, should be attributed to political sympathies in the reign of his successor Fínsnechta mac Cellaig (d. 808).\n\nÓ Riain, however, has rejected the traditional date (797 x 808) in favour of a later range, between 828 and 833, while more recently, Dumville has cast doubt on Ó Riain's conclusions and dating methods. First, Ó Riain argues that such sympathies as Thurneysen refers to are pertinent only to the next kings in the royal line, Cellach mac Brain (r. 829–834) and Conchobar mac Donnchada (r. 819–833), sons of Bran and Donnchad respectively. Dumville objects that this political argument glosses over the probability that while Bran and Donnchad gave way to overlords from rival dynasties, they were nevertheless succeeded by members of their family in their own \"tuatha\" or \"mórthuatha\". The inclusion of these kings in the prologue therefore offers no good reason to move up the \"terminus ante quem\". Second, Ó Riain sees reason to identify the saints Airerán (11 August), Modímóc (10 December) and Flann (14 January) with Airfhinnán (d. 803), abbot of Tallaght, Dímmán of Araid (d. 811) and Flann mac Fairchellaig (d. 825), abbot of Lismore. Dumville, however, points out a number of weaknesses and concludes with Stokes \"that no saint or other person who certainly died in the ninth century is mentioned.\" Third, having identified a number of saints in the \"Martyrology of Tallaght\", the primary model for the \"Félire\", he proposes obits extending to that of St Teimnén or St Temnán of Linn Duachaill, who died in 828. In Dumville's view, the evidence is ambiguous, since the relationship of the extant copies of the \"Martyrology of Tallaght\" to the lost original which served as the source for the \"Félire\" is yet unclear. Liam Breatnach has also supported Thurneysen's date.\n\nSomething of Óengus' view on secular politics appears to come through in his prologue to the \"Félire\". In a number of stanzas, the deserted sites of Tara, Crúachan (also Crúachu) and Emain Machae are interpreted as the former sites of fortresses in which powerful rulers resided before the coming of Christianity. These pagan seats of power are contrasted with the great ecclesiastical centres of Ireland which were flourishing in Óengus' own time, such as Armagh and Clonmacnoise. According to the historian T.M. Charles-Edwards, Óengus was responding to the military domination of overlords of his day, commenting that worldly glory is transient, while spiritual power is enduring. To similar effect, Óengus also holds up the example of Máel Ruain, who continues to offer support and comfort after his death, against that of the contemporary warrior-kings Donnchadh and Bran Ardchenn, whose strong exercise of power meant no such thing after theirs.\n\nIt has been suggested that Óengus was actively involved in the compilation if not the composition of the augmented \"Martyrology of Tallaght\". This was a work of Northumbrian provenance, probably from Lindisfarne, which first passed through Iona and Bangor, where Irish scribes began to make some additions. The manuscript (now lost) finally arrived in Tallaght, where it received the majority of its Irish additions. It was written by someone of Óengus's learning and literary skill at Tallaght and there are strong indications that this was Óengus himself: first of all, the sources named by Óengus in the epilogue to the \"Félire\" (see above) would make more sense if these were the materials used for the \"Martyrology of Tallaght\"; second, a number of saints whom the same epilogue claims to have included are found in the Martyrology of Tallaght, but not in the actual \"Félire\".\n\nAccording to the \"Martyrology of Tallaght\", Óengus's feast-day, and hence the date of his death, is 11 March. The poem beginning \"Aíbind suide sund amne\" claims that he died on a Friday in Dísert Bethech (\"The Birchen Hermitage\"). Together, these have produced a range of possible dates such as 819, 824 and 830, but pending the dates of the martyrologies, no conclusive answer can be offered. His metrical \"Life\" tells that he was buried in his birthplace Clonenagh.\n\nBecoming a hermit, he lived for a time at -beagh, where, on the banks of the Nore, he is said to have communed with the angels. From his love of prayer and solitude he was named the \"Culdee\"; in other words, the \"Ceile Dé\", or \"Servant of God.\" Not satisfied with his hermitage, which was only a mile from Clonenagh, and, therefore, liable to be disturbed by students or wayfarers, Óengus removed to a more solitary abode eight miles distant. This sequestered place, two miles southeast of the present town of Maryborough, was called after him \"the Desert of Óengus\", or \"Dysert-Enos\". Here he erected a little oratory on a gentle eminence among the Dysert Hills, now represented by a ruined and deserted Protestant church.\n\nHis earliest biographer in the ninth century relates the wonderful austerities practised by St. Óengus in his \"desert\", and though he sought to be far from the haunts of men, his fame attracted a stream of visitors. The result was that the good saint abandoned his oratory at Dysert-Enos, and, after some wanderings, came to the monastery of Tallaght, near Dublin, then governed by St. Maelruain. He entered as a lay brother, concealing his identity, but St. Maelruain soon discovered him and collaborated with him on the Martyrology of Tallaght.\n\n\n\n\n"}
