{"id": "57168721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57168721", "title": "1998 East Java ninja scare", "text": "1998 East Java ninja scare\n\nThe 1998 East Java ninja scare was an outbreak of mass hysteria in East Java, Indonesia, in which the local population believed they were being targeted by sorcerers known as ninja, who were blamed for mysterious killings of religious leaders by assassins dressed in black. As many as 150-300 “sorcerers” were killed between February and October, with the most deaths occurring between August and September.\n\nAccording to Jason Brown, Banyuwangi is a centre of black magic in Indonesia. Black magic practiced in Banyuwangi is a mix of animist beliefs and Islamic mysticism which developed from inter-religious conflict during the 16th century Mataram court period. Belief in black magic, or dukun santet, is widespread in the area.\n\nThe killings began in Banyuwangi Regency in February. Organized assassins, dressed in black from which they gained the name ninja, began attacking leaders affiliated with Nahdlatul Ulama. Local people began to hunt down and kill anyone who they believed to be ‘ninjas’ in response. About five people were killed between February and July. In the month of August, 40 people were killed, and in September the number rose to 80.\n\nOn 18 October 1998, five men were killed in the Turen area. One was beaten to death, one was burned and three were beheaded. On 20 October 1998, three killings occurred. Two had been seized from a police car by vigilantes who reportedly slit their throats, and the third was the man whose head was paraded on a stake.\n\nOn 24 October at Godanglegi, near Malang, another five suspected ninjas were killed by villagers. One victim was burnt to death while another was beheaded.\n\nOn 1 October 1998, the Surabaya Post reported “a rumour about the existence of attacks by ninja-like squads” that were targeting “community leaders as well as ulama. As a result, the residents near Islamic boarding schools undertake tight guards around the houses of ulamas who have become targets.” On 4 October 1998, the Jawa Pos reported that “prayer teachers are in the sights of groups of dozens of killers who wear all-black clothes and masks like ninjas.”\n\nA Nahdlatul Ulama investigation team found that 143 ‘ninja’ were killed in Banyuwangi and 105 in other regions of East Java such as Jember, Sumenep and Pasuruan, making the total documented death toll 248, though it may be higher.\n\nThere have been a number of theories regarding who was behind the original organised killing of the Nahdlatul Ulama religious leaders. Abdurrahman Wahid, then head of Nahdlatul Ulama, claimed they were ordered by elite politicians.\n"}
{"id": "77945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77945", "title": "Aegle (mythology)", "text": "Aegle (mythology)\n\nAegle ( \"brightness\" or \"dazzling light\") is the name of several different figures in Greek mythology:\n"}
{"id": "200269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200269", "title": "Annie Besant", "text": "Annie Besant\n\nAnnie Besant, née Wood (1 October 1847 – 20 September 1933) was a British socialist, theosophist, women's rights activist, writer, orator, and supporter of both Irish and Indian self-rule.\n\nIn 1867, Annie, at age 20, married Frank Besant, a clergyman, and they had two children. However, Annie's increasingly anti-religious views led to their legal separation in 1873. She then became a prominent speaker for the National Secular Society (NSS), as well as a writer, and a close friend of Charles Bradlaugh. In 1877 they were prosecuted for publishing a book by birth control campaigner Charles Knowlton. The scandal made them famous, and Bradlaugh was subsequently elected M.P. for Northampton in 1880.\n\nThereafter, she became involved with union actions, including the Bloody Sunday demonstration and the London matchgirls strike of 1888. She was a leading speaker for both the Fabian Society and the Marxist Social Democratic Federation (SDF). She was also elected to the London School Board for Tower Hamlets, topping the poll, even though few women were qualified to vote at that time.\n\nIn 1890 Besant met Helena Blavatsky, and over the next few years her interest in theosophy grew, whilst her interest in secular matters waned. She became a member of the Theosophical Society and a prominent lecturer on the subject. As part of her theosophy-related work, she travelled to India. In 1898 she helped establish the Central Hindu College, and in 1922 she helped establish the Hyderabad (Sind) National Collegiate Board in Mumbai, India. In 1902, she established the first overseas Lodge of the International Order of Co-Freemasonry, \"Le Droit Humain\". Over the next few years she established lodges in many parts of the British Empire. In 1907 she became president of the Theosophical Society, whose international headquarters were, by then, located in Adyar, Madras, (Chennai).\n\nShe also became involved in politics in India, joining the Indian National Congress. When World War I broke out in 1914, she helped launch the Home Rule League to campaign for democracy in India, and dominion status within the British Empire. This led to her election as president of the India National Congress, in late 1917. In the late 1920s, Besant travelled to the United States with her protégé and adopted son Jiddu Krishnamurti, who she claimed was the new Messiah and incarnation of Buddha. Krishnamurti rejected these claims in 1929. After the war, she continued to campaign for Indian independence and for the causes of theosophy, until her death in 1933.\n\nShe started the central Hindu school in Benares as a chief means of achieving her objective.\n\nAnnie Wood was born in 1847 in London into a middle-class family of Irish origin. She was proud of her heritage and supported the cause of Irish self-rule throughout her adult life. Her father died when she was five years old, leaving the family almost penniless. Her mother supported the family by running a boarding house for boys at Harrow School. However, she was unable to support Annie and persuaded her friend Ellen Marryat to care for her. Marryat made sure that she had a good education. Annie was given a strong sense of duty to society and an equally strong sense of what independent women could achieve. As a young woman, she was also able to travel widely in Europe. There she acquired a taste for Roman Catholic colour and ceremony that never left her.\n\nIn 1867, at age twenty, she married 26-year-old clergyman Frank Besant (1840–1917), younger brother of Walter Besant. He was an evangelical Anglican who seemed to share many of her concerns. On the eve of her marriage, she had become more politicised through a visit to friends in Manchester, who brought her into contact with both English radicals and the Manchester Martyrs of the Irish Republican Fenian Brotherhood, as well as with the conditions of the urban poor.\nSoon Frank became vicar of Sibsey in Lincolnshire. Annie moved to Sibsey with her husband, and within a few years they had two children, Arthur and Mabel; however, the marriage was a disaster. As Annie wrote in her \"Autobiography\", \"we were an ill-matched pair\". The first conflict came over money and Annie's independence. Annie wrote short stories, books for children, and articles. As married women did not have the legal right to own property, Frank was able to collect all the money she earned. Politics further divided the couple. Annie began to support farm workers who were fighting to unionise and to win better conditions. Frank was a Tory and sided with the landlords and farmers. The tension came to a head when Annie refused to attend Communion. In 1873 she left him and returned to London. They were legally separated and Annie took her daughter with her.\n\nBesant began to question her own faith. She turned to leading churchmen for advice, going to see Edward Bouverie Pusey, one of the leaders of the Oxford Movement within the Church of England. When she asked him to recommend books that would answer her questions, he told her she had read too many already. Besant returned to Frank to make a last unsuccessful effort to repair the marriage. She finally left for London.\n\nIn the late 1880s she studied at the Birkbeck Literary and Scientific Institution, where her religious and political activities caused alarm. At one point the Institution's governors sought to withhold the publication of her exam results.\n\nShe fought for the causes, her thoughts were right, starting with freedom of thought, women's rights, secularism, birth control, Fabian socialism and workers' rights. She was a leading member of the National Secular Society alongside Charles Bradlaugh and the South Place Ethical Society.\n\nDivorce was unthinkable for Frank, and was not really within the reach of even middle-class people. Annie was to remain Mrs Besant for the rest of her life. At first, she was able to keep contact with both children and to have Mabel live with her; she also got a small allowance from her husband.\n\nOnce free of Frank Besant and exposed to new currents of thought, she began to question not only her long-held religious beliefs but also the whole of conventional thinking. She began to write attacks on the churches and the way they controlled people's lives. In particular she attacked the status of the Church of England as a state-sponsored faith.\n\nSoon she was earning a small weekly wage by writing a column for the \"National Reformer\", the newspaper of the NSS. The NSS argued for a secular state and an end to the special status of Christianity, and allowed her to act as one of its public speakers. Public lectures were very popular entertainment in Victorian times. Besant was a brilliant speaker, and was soon in great demand. Using the railway, she criss-crossed the country, speaking on all of the most important issues of the day, always demanding improvement, reform and freedom.\n\nFor many years Besant was a friend of the National Secular Society's leader, Charles Bradlaugh. Bradlaugh, a former soldier, had long been separated from his wife; Besant lived with him and his daughters, and they worked together on many projects. He was an atheist and a republican; he was also trying to get elected as Member of Parliament (MP) for Northampton.\n\nBesant and Bradlaugh became household names in 1877 when they published \"Fruits of Philosophy\", a book by the American birth-control campaigner Charles Knowlton. It claimed that working-class families could never be happy until they were able to decide how many children they wanted. It also suggested ways to limit the size of their families. The Knowlton book was highly controversial, and was vigorously opposed by the Church. Besant and Bradlaugh proclaimed in the \"National Reformer\":\n\nWe intend to publish nothing we do not think we can morally defend. All that we publish we shall defend.\n\nThe pair were arrested and put on trial for publishing the Knowlton book. They were found guilty, but released pending appeal. As well as great opposition, Besant and Bradlaugh also received a great deal of support in the Liberal press. Arguments raged back and forth in the letters and comment columns as well as in the courtroom. Besant was instrumental in founding the Malthusian League during the trial, which would go on to advocate for the abolition of penalties for the promotion of contraception. For a time, it looked as though they would be sent to prison. The case was thrown out finally only on a technical point, the charges not having been properly drawn up.\n\nThe scandal cost Besant custody of her children. Her husband was able to persuade the court that she was unfit to look after them, and they were handed over to him permanently.\n\nOn 6 March 1881 she spoke at the opening of Leicester Secular Society's new Secular Hall in Humberstone Gate, Leicester. The other speakers were George Jacob Holyoake, Harriet Law and Charles Bradlaugh.\n\nBradlaugh's political prospects were not damaged by the Knowlton scandal and he was elected to Parliament in 1881. Because of his atheism, he asked to be allowed to affirm rather than swear the oath of loyalty. When the possibility of affirmation was refused, Bradlaugh stated his willingness to take the oath. But this option was also challenged. Although many Christians were shocked by Bradlaugh, others (like the Liberal leader Gladstone) spoke up for freedom of belief. It took more than six years before the matter was completely resolved (in Bradlaugh's favour) after a series of by-elections and court appearances.\n\nMeanwhile, Besant built close contacts with the Irish Home Rulers and supported them in her newspaper columns during what are considered crucial years, when the Irish nationalists were forming an alliance with Liberals and Radicals. Besant met the leaders of the Irish home rule movement. In particular, she got to know Michael Davitt, who wanted to mobilise the Irish peasantry through a Land War, a direct struggle against the landowners. She spoke and wrote in favour of Davitt and his Land League many times over the coming decades.\n\nHowever, Bradlaugh's parliamentary work gradually alienated Besant. Women had no part in parliamentary politics. Besant was searching for a real political outlet, where her skills as a speaker, writer and organiser could do some real good.\n\nFor Besant, politics, friendship and love were always closely intertwined. Her decision in favour of Socialism came about through a close relationship with George Bernard Shaw, a struggling young Irish author living in London, and a leading light of the Fabian Society. Annie was impressed by his work and grew very close to him too in the early 1880s. It was Besant who made the first move, by inviting Shaw to live with her. This he refused, but it was Shaw who sponsored Besant to join the Fabian Society. In its early days, the society was a gathering of people exploring spiritual, rather than political, alternatives to the capitalist system. Besant began to write for the Fabians. This new commitment – and her relationship with Shaw – deepened the split between Besant and Bradlaugh, who was an individualist and opposed to Socialism of any sort. While he defended free speech at any cost, he was very cautious about encouraging working-class militancy.\n\nUnemployment was a central issue of the time, and in 1887 some of the London unemployed started to hold protests in Trafalgar Square. Besant agreed to appear as a speaker at a meeting on 13 November. The police tried to stop the assembly, fighting broke out, and troops were called. Many were hurt, one man died, and hundreds were arrested; Besant offered herself for arrest, an offer disregarded by the police.\n\nThe events created a great sensation, and became known as Bloody Sunday. Besant was widely blamed – or credited – for it. She threw herself into organising legal aid for the jailed workers and support for their families. Bradlaugh finally broke with her because he felt she should have asked his advice before going ahead with the meeting.\n\nAnother activity in this period was her involvement in the London matchgirls strike of 1888. She was drawn into this battle of the \"New Unionism\" by a young socialist, Herbert Burrows. He had made contact with workers at Bryant and May's match factory in Bow, London, who were mainly young women and were very poorly paid. They were also prey to industrial illnesses, like the bone-rotting Phossy jaw, which was caused by the chemicals used in match manufacture. Some of the match workers asked for help from Burrows and Besant in setting up a union.\n\nBesant met the women and set up a committee, which led the women into a strike for better pay and conditions, an action that won public support. Besant led demonstrations by \"match-girls\", who were cheered in the streets, and prominent churchmen wrote in their support. In just over a week they forced the firm to improve pay and conditions. Besant then helped them to set up a proper union and a social centre.\n\nAt the time, the matchstick industry was a very powerful lobby, since electric light was not yet widely available, and matches were an essential commodity; in 1872, lobbyists from the match industry had persuaded the British government to change its planned tax policy. Besant's campaign was the first time anyone had successfully challenged the match manufacturers on a major issue, and was seen as a landmark victory of the early years of British Socialism.\n\nDuring 1884, Besant had developed a very close friendship with Edward Aveling, a young socialist teacher who lived in her house for a time. Aveling was a scholarly figure and it was he who first translated the important works of Marx into English. He eventually went to live with Eleanor Marx, daughter of Karl Marx. Aveling was a great influence on Besant's thinking and she supported his work, yet she moved towards the rival Fabians at that time. Aveling and Eleanor Marx had joined the Marxist Social Democratic Federation and then the Socialist League, a small Marxist splinter group which formed around the artist William Morris.\n\nIt seems that Morris played a large part in converting Besant to Marxism, but it was to the SDF, not his Socialist League, that she turned in 1888. She remained a member for a number of years and became one of its best speakers. She was still a member of the Fabian Society; neither she nor anyone else seemed to think the two movements incompatible at the time.\n\nSoon after joining the Marxists, Besant was elected to the London School Board in 1888. Women at that time were not able to take part in parliamentary politics, but had been brought into the local electorate in 1881.\n\nBesant drove about with a red ribbon in her hair, speaking at meetings. \"No more hungry children\", her manifesto proclaimed. She combined her socialist principles with feminism:\n\"I ask the electors to vote for me, and the non-electors to work for me because women are wanted on the Board and there are too few women candidates.\" Besant came out on top of the poll in Tower Hamlets, with over 15,000 votes. She wrote in the National Reformer: \"Ten years ago, under a cruel law, Christian bigotry robbed me of my little child. Now the care of the 763,680 children of London is placed partly in my hands.\"\n\nBesant was also involved in the London dock strike of 1889, in which the dockers, who were employed by the day, were led by Ben Tillett in a struggle for the \"Dockers' Tanner\". Besant helped Tillett draw up the union's rules and played an important part in the meetings and agitation which built up the organisation. She spoke for the dockers at public meetings and on street corners. Like the match-girls, the dockers won public support for their struggle, and the strike was won.\n\nBesant was a prolific writer and a powerful orator. In 1889, she was asked to write a review for the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" on \"The Secret Doctrine\", a book by H. P. Blavatsky. After reading it, she sought an interview with its author, meeting Blavatsky in Paris. In this way she was converted to Theosophy. Besant's intellectual journey had always involved a spiritual dimension, a quest for transformation of the whole person. As her interest in theosophy deepened, she allowed her membership of the Fabian Society to lapse (1890) and broke her links with the Marxists. In her \"Autobiography\", Besant follows her chapter on \"Socialism\" with \"Through Storm to Peace\", the peace of Theosophy. In 1888, she described herself as \"marching toward the Theosophy\" that would be the \"glory\" of her life. Besant had found the economic side of life lacking a spiritual dimension, so she searched for a belief based on \"Love\". She found this in Theosophy, so she joined the Theosophical Society, a move that distanced her from Bradlaugh and other former activist co-workers. When Blavatsky died in 1891, Besant was left as one of the leading figures in theosophy and in 1893 she represented it at the Chicago World Fair.\n\nIn 1893, soon after becoming a member of the Theosophical Society she went to India for the first time. After a dispute the American section split away into an independent organisation. The original society, then led by Henry Steel Olcott and Besant, is today based in Chennai, India, and is known as the Theosophical Society Adyar. Following the split Besant devoted much of her energy not only to the society, but also to India's freedom and progress. Besant Nagar, a neighbourhood near the Theosophical Society in Chennai, is named in her honour.\n\nBesant saw freemasonry, in particular Co-Freemasonry, as an extension of her interest in the rights of women and the greater brotherhood of man and saw co-freemasonry as a \"movement which practised true brotherhood, in which women and men worked side by side for the perfecting of humanity. She immediately wanted to be admitted to this organisation\", known now as the \"International Order of Freemasonry for Men and Women, \"Le Droit Humain\".\"\n\nThe link was made in 1902 by the theosophist Francesca Arundale, who accompanied Besant to Paris, along with six friends. \"They were all initiated, passed and raised into the first three degrees and Annie returned to England, bearing a Charter and founded there the first Lodge of International Mixed Masonry, Le Droit Humain.\" Besant eventually became the Order's Most Puissant Grand Commander, and was a major influence in the international growth of the Order.\n\nBesant met fellow theosophist Charles Webster Leadbeater in London in April 1894. They became close co-workers in the theosophical movement and would remain so for the rest of their lives. Leadbeater claimed clairvoyance and reputedly helped Besant become clairvoyant herself in the following year. In a letter dated 25 August 1895 to Francisca Arundale, Leadbeater narrates how Besant became clairvoyant. Together they clairvoyantly investigated the universe, matter, thought-forms, and the history of mankind, and co-authored a book called \"Occult Chemistry\".\n\nIn 1906 Leadbeater became the centre of controversy when it emerged that he had advised the practice of masturbation to some boys under his care and spiritual instruction. Leadbeater stated he had encouraged the practice to keep the boys celibate, which was considered a prerequisite for advancement on the spiritual path. Because of the controversy, he offered to resign from the Theosophical Society in 1906, which was accepted. The next year Besant became president of the society and in 1908, with her express support, Leadbeater was readmitted to the society. Leadbeater went on to face accusations of improper relations with boys, but none of the accusations were ever proven and Besant never deserted him.\n\nUntil Besant's presidency, the society had as one of its foci Theravada Buddhism and the island of Sri Lanka, where Henry Olcott did the majority of his useful work. Under Besant's leadership there was more stress on the teachings of \"The Aryavarta\", as she called central India, as well as on esoteric Christianity.\n\nBesant set up a new school for boys, the Central Hindu College (CHC) at Banaras which was formed on underlying theosophical principles, and which counted many prominent theosophists in its staff and faculty. Its aim was to build a new leadership for India. The students spent 90 minutes a day in prayer and studied religious texts, but they also studied modern science. It took 3 years to raise the money for the CHC, most of which came from Indian princes. In April 1911, Besant met Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya and they decided to unite their forces and work for a common Hindu University at Banaras. Besant and fellow trustees of the Central Hindu College also agreed to Government of India's precondition that the college should become a part of the new University. The Banaras Hindu University started functioning from 1 October 1917 with the Central Hindu College as its first constituent college.\n\nBlavatsky had stated in 1889 that the main purpose of establishing the society was to prepare humanity for the future reception of a \"torch-bearer of Truth\", an emissary of a hidden Spiritual Hierarchy that, according to theosophists, guides the evolution of mankind. This was repeated by Besant as early as 1896; Besant came to believe in the imminent appearance of the \"emissary\", who was identified by theosophists as the so-called \"World Teacher\".\n\nIn 1909, soon after Besant's assumption of the presidency, Leadbeater \"discovered\" fourteen-year-old Jiddu Krishnamurti (1895–1986), a South Indian boy who had been living, with his father and brother, on the grounds of the headquarters of the Theosophical Society at Adyar, and declared him the probable \"vehicle\" for the expected \"World Teacher\". The \"discovery\" and its objective received widespread publicity and attracted worldwide following, mainly among theosophists. It also started years of upheaval, and contributed to splits in the Theosophical Society and doctrinal schisms in theosophy. Following the discovery, Jiddu Krishnamurti and his younger brother Nityananda (\"Nitya\") were placed under the care of theosophists and Krishnamurti was extensively groomed for his future mission as the new vehicle for the \"World Teacher\". Besant soon became the boys' legal guardian with the consent of their father, who was very poor and could not take care of them. However, his father later changed his mind and began a legal battle to regain the guardianship, against the will of the boys. Early in their relationship, Krishnamurti and Besant had developed a very close bond and he considered her a surrogate mother – a role she happily accepted. (His biological mother had died when he was ten years old).\n\nIn 1929, twenty years after his \"discovery\", Krishnamurti, who had grown disenchanted with the \"World Teacher Project\", repudiated the role that many theosophists expected him to fulfil. He dissolved the Order of the Star in the East, an organisation founded to assist the World Teacher in his mission, and eventually left the Theosophical Society and theosophy at large. He spent the rest of his life travelling the world as an unaffiliated speaker, becoming in the process widely known as an original, independent thinker on philosophical, psychological, and spiritual subjects. His love for Besant never waned, as also was the case with Besant's feelings towards him; concerned for his wellbeing after he declared his independence, she had purchased of land near the Theosophical Society estate which later became the headquarters of the \"Krishnamurti Foundation India \".\n\nAlong with her theosophical activities, Besant continued to actively participate in political matters. She had joined the Indian National Congress. As the name suggested, this was originally a debating body, which met each year to consider resolutions on political issues. Mostly it demanded more of a say for middle-class Indians in British Indian government. It had not yet developed into a permanent mass movement with local organisation. About this time her co-worker Leadbeater moved to Sydney.\n\nIn 1914 World War I broke out, and Britain asked for the support of its Empire in the fight against Germany. Echoing an Irish nationalist slogan, Besant declared, \"England's need is India's opportunity\". As editor of the \"New India\" newspaper, she attacked the colonial government of India and called for clear and decisive moves towards self-rule. As with Ireland, the government refused to discuss any changes while the war lasted.\nIn 1916 Besant launched the All India Home Rule League along with Lokmanya Tilak, once again modelling demands for India on Irish nationalist practices. This was the first political party in India to have regime change as its main goal. Unlike the Congress itself, the League worked all year round. It built a structure of local branches, enabling it to mobilise demonstrations, public meetings and agitations. In June 1917 Besant was arrested and interned at a hill station, where she defiantly flew a red and green flag. The Congress and the Muslim League together threatened to launch protests if she were not set free; Besant's arrest had created a focus for protest.\n\nThe government was forced to give way and to make vague but significant concessions. It was announced that the ultimate aim of British rule was Indian self-government, and moves in that direction were promised. Besant was freed in September 1917, welcomed by crowds all over India, and in December she took over as president of the Indian National Congress for a year.\n\nAfter the war, a new leadership of the Indian National Congress emerged around Mohandas K. Gandhi – one of those who had written to demand Besant's release. He was a lawyer who had returned from leading Asians in a peaceful struggle against racism in South Africa. Jawaharlal Nehru, Gandhi's closest collaborator, had been educated by a theosophist tutor.\n\nThe new leadership was committed to action that was both militant and non-violent, but there were differences between them and Besant. Despite her past, she was not happy with their socialist leanings. Until the end of her life, however, she continued to campaign for India's independence, not only in India but also on speaking tours of Britain. In her own version of Indian dress, she remained a striking presence on speakers' platforms. She produced a torrent of letters and articles demanding independence.\n\nBesant tried as a person, theosophist, and president of the Theosophical Society, to accommodate Krishnamurti's views into her life, without success; she vowed to personally follow him in his new direction although she apparently had trouble understanding both his motives and his new message. The two remained friends until the end of her life.\n\nIn 1931 she became ill in India.\n\nBesant died on 20 September 1933, at age 85, in Adyar, Madras Presidency, British India. Her body was cremated.\n\nShe was survived by her daughter, Mabel. After her death, colleagues Jiddu Krishnamurti, Aldous Huxley, Guido Ferrando, and Rosalind Rajagopal, built the Happy Valley School in California, now renamed the Besant Hill School of Happy Valley in her honour.\n\nThe subsequent family history became fragmented. A number of Besant's descendants have been traced in detail from her son Arthur Digby's side. Arthur Digby Besant (1869-1960) was President of the Institute of Actuaries, 1924-26. He wrote \"The Besant Pedigree\" (1930) and was director of the Theosophical bookstore in London. One of Arthur Digby's daughters was Sylvia Besant, who married Commander Clem Lewis in the 1920s. They had a daughter, Kathleen Mary, born in 1934, who was given away for adoption within three weeks of the birth and had the new name of Lavinia Pollock. Lavinia married Frank Castle in 1953 and raised a family of five of Besant's great-great-grandchildren – James, Richard, David, Fiona and Andrew Castle – the last and youngest sibling being a former British professional tennis player and now television presenter and personality.\n\nBesant opined that for centuries the leaders of Christian thought spoke of women as a necessary evil, and that the greatest saints of the Church were those who despised women the most, \"Against the teachings of eternal torture, of the vicarious atonement, of the infallibility of the Bible, I leveled all the strength of my brain and tongue, and I exposed the history of the Christian Church with unsparing hand, its persecutions, its religious wars, its cruelties, its oppressions. (Annie Besant, An Autobiography Chapter VII).\" In the section named \"Its Evidences Unreliable\" of her work \"Christianity\", Besant presents the case of why the Gospels are not authentic.\n\nBesides being a prolific writer, Besant was a \"practised stump orator\" who gave sixty-six public lectures in one year. She also engaged in public debates.\nList of Works on Online Books \nList of Work on Open Library \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11995068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11995068", "title": "Ansar Ud Deen", "text": "Ansar Ud Deen\n\nAnsar-ud-Deen Society of Nigeria is a Muslim organization established for the purpose of the educational development of Muslims and also as a body to enhance the moral and social development of the Muslim community in Lagos. It was founded in 1923 as a non-sectarian and non-political educational association, although there are doubts about its non-political stance.\n\nThe society started out as a response to the advent of a class of Western trained Christian elites in the colonial capital of Lagos and also to engage in the promotion of reformist ideas and development in the Muslim communities of Lagos and later in Nigeria. The group, however, toed the line that a reformist Islam could co-exist with western innovations and ideas.\n\nBy the turn of the twentieth century, an emerging social class of Christian elites had risen to prominence and were emerging as an authority in political and social affairs in Lagos. This was mostly due to the effort of missionaries in promoting Western education, which resulted in the creation of many graduates in different professional fields. The new elites also promoted the use of the word Yoruba to promote a unifying social and ethnic group in Southwestern Nigeria; among the new groups was Samuel Johnson, a pioneering Nigerian historian. The group emerged at a time the communal towns and cities of Western Nigeria were being inundated by the imperial interest of Great Britain. They then decided to carve out ways to maintain and enhance the social and cultural development in modern Yoruba states as a response to the imperial interests of Great Britain. However, in reality, many of the new elites were cooperative with the British mission to unite Nigerian communities.\n\nThe role and effect on the Lagos Muslim community of the movement towards hegemony was thought of as good a political and social route. Thus a notion of tolerance among Muslims with other groups in Lagos was accepted, resulting in a polarizing and diverse communal society as promoted by the new elite. However, an awareness of emerging conflicts between Christian elites and the colonial government especially in Lagos and the role Western education played in the emergence of the elites led many Muslims to devise means of educating their communities. These reformist groups were associated with elemental Yoruba organizations called, Egbe (professional associations) and were also influenced by different factors and movements in the Muslim community such as the Ahmadiyya movement in Lagos and itinerant Arabic scholars.\n\nIn 1923, when the Ansar Ud Deen society was formed, it was originally called Young Ansar Ud Deen and started out in Lagos, a cosmopolitan trading and coastal center with foreign and local traders converging to trade goods. Many members of the Lagos Muslim community were integral individuals in the Lagos trading community and had been exposed to the international and imperial trading groups and non trading ideas they brought along. The Muslim community initially flourished in the migrant communities of the Hausa, Nupe and Kanuri ethnic groups and also a permission granted in 1841, which allowed public prayers. However, in 1908, a dispute emerged in the Lagos Muslim community in reaction to a new water rate effected by the colonial administrators. The majority of the community opposed the rate while the Chief Imam supported the government move. Among many of the young elites who founded Ansar Ud Deen were members who supported the Chief Imam; some were also individuals who left the Ahmadiyya movement in Lagos. A new group of young educated Muslims, who were largely from the factions that supported the Chief Imam in Lagos, was made up of members of a Juvenile Muslim Society. Both were united in finding ways to stem a drift in the community and, importantly, to fund Muslim schools along the lines of western education in Lagos. A series of meetings were held in November and December 1924 to discuss on the aforementioned issues and to form an association. On 21 December 1924, the Young Ansar Ud Deen was formed and led by a committee of 42 gentlemen. A number of its original members were associated with Saros in Lagos, bearing names such as Savage, Carew and Williams. Prominent members of the society were Y.k. Gbajabiamila, Hussein Carew, M.A. Okunnu, Hafiz Abu and Yesufu Tairu.\n\nThe new association and the committee of 42 gentlemen designed an executive body headed by the president and supported by a vice president to partake in the governing affairs of the society, and by 1926, a constitution was enacted to establish rules of conduct. In 1927, the society became officially recognized as a non-governmental association and opened its doors to all members of the Muslim society both men and women. However, in its early years, the activities of the group showed similarities with the improvement unions and missionary societies already existent in Yorubaland. The society's theme of propagation of Islam through translation of Islamic works and the promotion of literary and intellectual pursuit among members and in the general Muslim community was similar to the scholarly ideals of many egbe (professional associations) in the region.\n\nIn 1926, the society initiated a mission board which had two prominent members, Mustafa Ekemode (who later became the Chief Imam and head of mission) and M.A. Okunnu. The board was tasked with organizing religious related activities such as open-air praying, celebration of important Islamic dates, child naming ceremonies and fund raising activities. In the case of its social related activities, such as marriages and child naming ceremonies, the group introduced modern approaches to the events.\n\nBy the 1940s, the group had expanded into other Yoruba towns and cities and an emerging issue of coordinating the expansion arose. Mustafa Ekemode was called on to be the chief missioner with a salary paid by the society. He was the society's first salaried member. In the early 1940s, the group gradually withdrew from meetings and prayers at the Lagos Central Mosque, and started its own Friday prayers near its own school. However, in 1954, the grouped fused itself with several committees of the Central Mosque on discussion of some major dates of the Islamic calendar. By then, the group had emerged as a wholly independent religious authority within the Lagos and Islamic Muslim community. In 1955, Ekemode joined the Broadcasting Corporation of Nigeria, and was involved with producing and presenting radio programs while talking on the radio with a distinctive style in Quranic recitations. The style was admired by many Yorubas at the time.\n\nIn its early years, women played major factors in the financial solvency of the society and their contributions was noted by the association in its first published newsletter in 1924. The Ansar Ud Deen society also introduced liberating rules on the role of women in the community and rejected the seclusion of women. Though, the most active women members were wives of officers of the society, the women's wing attracted wealthy women financiers, some of whom built Mosques and schools for the society.\n\nThe society, whose principal mission was promoting the intellectual pursuits of young children of Muslim parents, opened its first primary school in Alakoro in 1931. An education board was created in 1933-1934 to govern the educational programs of the society and to manage the new school. In the 1930s, the primary school consumed most of the society's financial capital but this did not deter further expansion. In 1942, a ten-year educational plan was initiated which resolved to establish more primary schools, a secondary school for boys and girls and a teachers training institute. The schools were to emphasize the teaching of Western subjects, though they were also influenced by Arabic teachings, as a prominent pioneer teacher was Arab and Arabic language was an important subject. The teachers training institute opened in 1946, with a large number of Christian teachers and Muslim students from other Yoruba towns and cities. By this time, the society had started expanding to other Yoruba cities through its own effort and cooperation with local Muslim groups, many of whom had seen the relative effectiveness of the Ansar Ud Deen project and wanted a learned hand in the running of schools in their locales. By 1955, the school was coordinating the education affairs of 80 primary schools in the country. The Society's most significant success was its cooperation with the Western Government of Nigeria's Universal Primary Education initiative in 1955. The government's plan envisaged building schools to be operated by voluntary associations, and brought in Ansar Ud deen to run most of the educational concessions given to the Muslim Voluntary Agencies.\n\nIn the 1960s, the society participated in the formation of modern Secondary and Grammar schools and, according to research samples, in 1964, close to 30% of Yoruba Muslims were involved with the Ansar Ud Deen Society and about 43% of children Yoruba Muslims attended schools run by Islamic Voluntary agencies.\n\nHowever, by the mid-1970s, the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria took control of schools run by voluntary associations, including those run by Ansar Ud Deen.\n\nThe success of the society's educational programs and its championing of Islamic reform in Nigeria caught the attention of many Yoruba leaders and communal associations. Egbes, or organized associations, of Muslims in a few towns like Ofa worked with the society in the establishment of primary schools. These projects were usually started as a result of a members' knowledge of the activities of the society in Lagos and brought the society's activities to the knowledge of other professional associates. In Ibadan, the society grew through the effort of the Baale Alesinloye, who introduced and brought the society to Ibadan. Originally, the society faced stiff opposition from the Ibadan Central Mosque authorities, but with the establishment of a school in 1951, the acceptance of the society grew. By then it had a notable member in the person of Humani Alaga, a prominent market women leader. Many associations, such as the Young Nawair Ud Deen which sprang from the Muslim community in Abeokuta, later followed the policies of the Ansar Ud Deen in its policy of educational expansion.\n"}
{"id": "298384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298384", "title": "Anthony de Mello", "text": "Anthony de Mello\n\nAnthony \"Tony\" de Mello (4 September 1931 – 2 June 1987) was an Indian Jesuit priest and psychotherapist. A spiritual teacher, writer, and public speaker, De Mello wrote several books on spirituality and hosted numerous spiritual retreats and conferences. He continues to be known for his storytelling which drew from the various mystical traditions of both East and West and for his introducing many people in the West to awareness prayer.\n\nDe Mello was the oldest of five children born to Frank and Louisa née Castellino de Mello. He was born in Bombay, British India, on 4 September 1931. He was raised in a Catholic family and dreamed of one day joining the Jesuit order. \n\nAt the age of 16, he entered the Society of Jesus in the seminary of Vinalaya on the outskirts of Bombay. In 1952, de Mello was sent to Spain to study philosophy in Barcelona before undertaking ministry. He then returned to India to study theology at De Nobili College in Pune, and was ordained into the priesthood in March 1961. After his return to India, he spent several years working in seminaries, and in 1968 he was made rector of the seminary of Vinalaya. \n\nDe Mello was first attracted to the Jesuits for their strict discipline. Those who knew him during his earlier years in the order described him as somewhat conservative in his theology and reluctant to explore other religions. Some of his peers noted that his experience in Spain led him to broaden his perspective and to lose much of his rigidity.\n\nIn 1972, he founded the Institute of Pastoral Counselling, later renamed the Sadhana Institute of Pastoral Counseling, in Poona, India. After that he spent much time introducing people in the United States to Eastern spirituality, through stories and exercises.\n\nDe Mello's first published book, \"Sadhana – A Way to God\", was released in 1978. It outlined a number of spiritual principles and \"Christian exercises in Eastern form\" inspired by the teachings of Saint Ignatius. It popularized the notion of \"awareness prayer\" in the United States for his readers and for those who attended his lectures. Awareness prayer differs from centering prayer more in its method than its purpose: instead of focusing on a word, awareness prayer attends to a sensation, like our pulse or breathing. Other books published during DeMello's lifetime include \"The Song of the Bird\", \"One Minute Wisdom\" and \"Wellsprings\". The first two were collections of stories and the last a collection of exercises similar to \"Sadhana\".\n\nHe became renowned worldwide for his books and talks, which help people to be more aware, more in touch with their body, sensations, and the gift that life is to them. Thousands attended his lecture-conferences, as at St. Louis University each summer. As he would say: \"Let the Spirit work. Stop straining your spiritual muscles. Become attuned to your deeper self and let the force of life take over. Let the Holy Spirit take over.\"\n\nDe Mello died suddenly of a heart attack in 1987, aged 55, in New York City.\n\nIn 1998, 11 years after de Mello's death, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith under the leadership of its Cardinal-Prefect, Joseph Ratzinger (who later became Pope Benedict XVI) conducted a review of de Mello's work and released a lengthy comment expressing appreciation but also theological concern that, while there was no explicit heresy, some might be misled into seeing Jesus not as the Son of God but as simply one who came to teach that all are children of God. The Indian magazine \"Outlook\" saw this as an attempt by Rome to undermine the clergy in Asia amid widening fissures between Rome and the Asian Church. DeMello's books are available in many Catholic bookshops in the West, but include the advisory that they were written in a multi-religious context and are not intended to be manuals on Christian doctrine.\n\nA number of de Mello's works were published posthumously as collections or based on notes or recordings of his conferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "4298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4298", "title": "Baptism", "text": "Baptism\n\nBaptism (from the Greek noun βάπτισμα \"baptisma\"; see below) is a Christian rite of admission and adoption, almost invariably with the use of water, into Christianity. The synoptic gospels recount that John the Baptist baptised Jesus. Baptism is considered a sacrament in most churches, and as an ordinance in others. Baptism is also called christening, although some reserve the word \"christening\" for the baptism of infants. It has also given its name to the Baptist churches and denominations.\n\nThe usual form of baptism among the earliest Christians involved the candidate's immersion, either totally (submerged completely under the water) or partially (standing or kneeling in water while water was poured on him or her). John the Baptist's use of a deep river for his baptising suggests immersion: \"The fact that he chose a permanent and deep river suggests that more than a token quantity of water was needed, and both the preposition 'in' (the Jordan) and the basic meaning of the verb 'baptize' probably indicate immersion. In v. 16, Matthew will speak of Jesus 'coming up out of the water'. Phillip and the Eunuch also went down and came up out of water (Acts 8:38-39). Baptism is likened unto a burial in Romans 6:3. \"Dip\" is translated from \"baptō\" (). The traditional depiction in Christian art of John the Baptist pouring water over Jesus' head may therefore be based on later Christian practice.\" Pictorial and archaeological evidence of Christian baptism from the 3rd century onward indicates that a normal form was to have the candidate stand in water while water was poured over the upper body. Other common forms of baptism now in use include pouring water three times on the forehead, a method called affusion.\n\nMartyrdom was identified early in Church history as \"baptism by blood\", enabling the salvation of martyrs who had not been baptized by water. Later, the Catholic Church identified a baptism of desire, by which those preparing for baptism who die before actually receiving the sacrament are considered saved. As evidenced also in the common Christian practice of infant baptism, Christians universally regarded baptism as in some sense necessary for salvation, until Huldrych Zwingli (1484-1531) denied its necessity in the 16th century.\n\nQuakers and the Salvation Army practice Baptism with the Holy Spirit instead of baptism with water. Among denominations that practice baptism by water, differences occur in the manner and mode of baptizing and in the understanding of the significance of the rite. Most Christians baptize \"in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit\" (following the Great Commission), but some baptize in Jesus' name only. Much more than half of all Christians baptize infants; many others regard only believer's baptism as true baptism.\n\nThe term \"baptism\" has also been used metaphorically to refer to any ceremony, trial, or experience by which a person is initiated, purified, or given a name.\n\nThe English word \"baptism\" is derived indirectly through Latin from the neuter Greek concept noun \"baptisma\" (Greek , \"washing-ism\"), which is a neologism in the New Testament derived from the masculine Greek noun \"baptismos\" (), a term for ritual washing in Greek language texts of Hellenistic Judaism during the Second Temple period, such as the Septuagint. Both of these nouns are derived from the verb \"baptizō\" (, \"I wash\" transitive verb), which is used in Jewish texts for ritual washing, and in the New Testament both for ritual washing and also for the apparently new rite of \"baptisma\". The Greek verb \"baptō\" (), \"dip\", from which the verb \"baptizo\" is derived, is in turn hypothetically traced to a reconstructed Indo-European root *\"gʷabh-\", \"dip\". The Greek words are used in a great variety of meanings.\n\nBaptism has similarities to Tvilah, a Jewish purification ritual of immersing in water, which is required for, among other things, conversion to Judaism, but which differs in being repeatable, while baptism is to be performed only once. (In fact, the Modern Hebrew term for \"baptism\" is \"Christian Tvilah\".) John the Baptist, who is considered a forerunner to Christianity, used baptism as the central sacrament of his messianic movement. The apostle Paul distinguished between the baptism of John, (\"baptism of repentance\") and baptism in the name of Jesus, and it is questionable whether Christian baptism was in some way linked with that of John. Christians consider Jesus to have instituted the sacrament of baptism.\n\nThe earliest Christian baptisms were probably normally by immersion, complete or partial. though other modes may have also been used.\n\nThough some form of immersion was likely the most common method of baptism, many of the writings from the ancient church appeared to view the mode of baptism as inconsequential. The Didache 7.1–3 (AD 60–150) allowed for affusion practices in situations where immersion was not practical. Likewise, Tertullian (AD 196–212) allowed for varying approaches to baptism even if those practices did not conform to biblical or traditional mandates (cf. De corona militis 3; De baptismo 17). Finally, Cyprian (ca. AD 256) explicitly stated that the amount of water was inconsequential and defended immersion, affusion, and aspersion practices (Epistle 75.12). As a result, there was no uniform or consistent mode of baptism in the ancient church prior to the fourth century.\n\nBy the third and fourth centuries, baptism involved catechetical instruction as well as chrismation, exorcisms, laying on of hands, and recitation of a creed.\n\nIn the early middle ages infant baptism became common and the rite was significantly simplified. In Western Europe Affusion became the normal mode of baptism between the twelfth and fourteenth centuries, though immersion was still practiced into the sixteenth. In the sixteenth century, Martin Luther retained baptism as a sacrament, but Swiss reformer Huldrych Zwingli considered baptism and the Lord's supper to be symbolic. Anabaptists denied the validity of the practice of infant baptism, and rebaptized converts.\n\nBaptism is practiced in several different ways. Aspersion is the sprinkling of water on the head, and affusion is the pouring of water over the head.\n\nThe word \"immersion\" is derived from late Latin \"immersio\", a noun derived from the verb \"immergere\" (\"in\" – \"into\" + \"mergere\" \"dip\"). In relation to baptism, some use it to refer to any form of dipping, whether the body is put completely under water or is only partly dipped in water; they thus speak of immersion as being either total or partial. Others, of the Anabaptist belief, use \"immersion\" to mean exclusively plunging someone entirely under the surface of the water. The term \"immersion\" is also used of a form of baptism in which water is poured over someone standing in water, without submersion of the person. On these three meanings of the word \"immersion\", see Immersion baptism.\n\nWhen \"immersion\" is used in opposition to \"submersion\", it indicates the form of baptism in which the candidate stands or kneels in water and water is poured over the upper part of the body. Immersion in this sense has been employed in West and East since at least the 2nd century and is the form in which baptism is generally depicted in early Christian art. In the West, this method of baptism began to be replaced by affusion baptism from around the 8th century, but it continues in use in Eastern Christianity.\n\nThe word submersion comes from the late Latin (\"sub-\" \"under, below\" + \"mergere\" \"plunge, dip\") and is also sometimes called \"complete immersion\". It is the form of baptism in which the water completely covers the candidate's body. Submersion is practiced in the Orthodox and several other Eastern Churches. In the Latin Church of the Catholic Church, baptism by submersion is used in the Ambrosian Rite and is one of the methods provided in the Roman Rite of the baptism of infants. It is seen as obligatory among some groups that have arisen since the Protestant Reformation, such as Baptists\n\nThe Greek-English Lexicon of Liddell and Scott gives the primary meaning of the verb \"baptizein\", from which the English verb \"baptize\" is derived, as \"dip, plunge\", and gives examples of plunging a sword into a throat or an embryo and for drawing wine by dipping a cup in the bowl; for New Testament usage it gives two meanings: \"baptize\", with which it associates the Septuagint mention of Naaman dipping himself in the Jordan River, and \"perform ablutions\", as in Luke 11:38.\n\nAlthough the Greek verb \"baptizein\" does not exclusively mean dip, plunge or immerse (it is used with literal and figurative meanings such as \"sink\", \"disable\", \"overwhelm\", \"go under\", \"overborne\", \"draw from a bowl\"), lexical sources typically cite this as a meaning of the word in both the Septuagint and the New Testament.\n\n\"While it is true that the basic root meaning of the Greek words for baptize and baptism is immerse/immersion, it is not true that the words can simply be reduced to this meaning, as can be seen from Mark 10:38–39, Luke 12:50, Matthew 3:11 Luke 3:16 and Corinthians10:2.\"\n\nTwo passages in the Gospels indicate that the verb \"baptizein\" did not always indicate submersion. The first is Luke 11:38, which tells how a Pharisee, at whose house Jesus ate, \"was astonished to see that he did not first wash (\"ἐβαπτίσθη\", aorist passive of \"βαπτίζω\"—literally, \"was baptized\") before dinner\". This is the passage that Liddell and Scott cites as an instance of the use of ' to mean \"perform ablutions\". Jesus' omission of this action is similar to that of his disciples: \"Then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees, which were of Jerusalem, saying, Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? for they wash (') not their hands when they eat bread\". The other Gospel passage pointed to is: \"The Pharisees...do not eat unless they wash (\"\", the ordinary word for washing) their hands thoroughly, observing the tradition of the elders; and when they come from the market place, they do not eat unless they wash themselves (literally, \"baptize themselves\"—\"βαπτίσωνται\", passive or middle voice of \"βαπτίζω\")\".\nScholars of various denominations claim that these two passages show that invited guests, or people returning from market, would not be expected to immerse themselves (\"baptize themselves\") totally in water but only to practise the partial immersion of dipping their hands in water or to pour water over them, as is the only form admitted by present Jewish custom. In the second of the two passages, it is actually the hands that are specifically identified as \"washed\" (Mark 7:3), not the entire person, for whom the verb used is \"baptizomai\", literally \"be baptized\", \"be immersed\" (Mark 7:4), a fact obscured by English versions that use \"wash\" as a translation of both verbs. Zodhiates concludes that the washing of the hands was done by immersing them. The Liddell–Scott–Jones Greek-English Lexicon (1996) cites the other passage (Luke 11:38) as an instance of the use of the verb \"baptizein\" to mean \"perform ablutions\", not \"submerge\". References to the cleaning of vessels which use βαπτίζω also refer to immersion.\n\nAs already mentioned, the lexicographical work of Zodhiates says that, in the second of these two cases, the verb \"baptizein\" indicates that, after coming from the market, the Pharisees washed their hands by immersing them in collected water. Balz & Schneider understand the meaning of βαπτίζω, used in place of ῥαντίσωνται (sprinkle), to be the same as βάπτω, to dip or immerse, a verb used of the partial dipping of a morsel held in the hand into wine or of a finger into spilled blood.\nA possible additional use of the verb \"baptizein\" to relate to ritual washing is suggested by Peter Leithart (2007) who suggests that Paul's phrase \"Else what shall they do who are baptized for the dead?\" relates to Jewish ritual washing. In Jewish Greek the verb \"baptizein\" \"baptized\" has a wider reference than just \"baptism\" and in Jewish context primarily applies to the masculine noun \"baptismos\" \"ritual washing\" The verb \"baptizein\" occurs four times in the Septuagint in the context of ritual washing, \"baptismos\"; Judith cleansing herself from menstrual impurity, Naaman washing seven times to be cleansed from leprosy, etc. Additionally, in the New Testament only, the verb \"baptizein\" can also relate to the neuter noun \"baptisma\" \"baptism\" which is a neologism unknown in the Septuagint and other pre-Christian Jewish texts. This broadness in the meaning of \"baptizein\" is reflected in English Bibles rendering \"wash\", where Jewish ritual washing is meant: for example Mark 7:4 states that the Pharisees \"except they wash (Greek \"baptize\"), they do not eat\", and \"baptize\" where \"baptisma\", the new Christian rite, is intended.\n\nTwo nouns derived from the verb \"baptizo\" (βαπτίζω) appear in the New Testament: the masculine noun \"baptismos\" (βαπτισμός) and the neuter noun \"baptisma\" (βάπτισμα):\n\n\nA Christian baptism is administered in one of the following forms, performing the action either once or thrice:\n\nUntil the Middle Ages, most baptisms were performed with the candidates naked—as is evidenced by most of the early portrayals of baptism (some of which are shown in this article), and the early Church Fathers and other Christian writers. Deaconesses helped female candidates for reasons of modesty.\n\nTypical of these is Cyril of Jerusalem who wrote \"On the Mysteries of Baptism\" in the 4th century (c. 350 AD):\n\nThe symbolism is threefold:\n\n1. Baptism is considered to be a form of rebirth—\"by water and the Spirit\"—the nakedness of baptism (the second birth) paralleled the condition of one's original birth. For example, St. John Chrysostom calls the baptism \"λοχείαν\", i.e., giving birth, and \"new way of creation...from water and Spirit\" (\"to John\" speech 25,2), and later elaborates:\n\n2. The removal of clothing represented the \"image of putting off the old man with his deeds\" (as per Cyril, above), so the stripping of the body before for baptism represented taking off the trappings of sinful self, so that the \"new man\", which is given by Jesus, can be put on.\n\n3. As St. Cyril again asserts above, as Adam and Eve in scripture were naked, innocent and unashamed in the Garden of Eden, nakedness during baptism was seen as a renewal of that innocence and state of original sinlessness. Other parallels can also be drawn, such as between the exposed condition of Christ during His crucifixion, and the crucifixion of the \"old man\" of the repentant sinner in preparation for baptism.\n\nChanging customs and concerns regarding modesty probably contributed to the practice of permitting or requiring the baptismal candidate to either retain their undergarments (as in many Renaissance paintings of baptism such as those by da Vinci, Tintoretto, Van Scorel, Masaccio, de Wit and others) or to wear, as is almost universally the practice today, baptismal robes. These robes are most often white, symbolizing purity. Some groups today allow any suitable clothes to be worn, such as trousers and a T-shirt—practical considerations include how easily the clothes will dry (denim is discouraged), and whether they will become see-through when wet.\n\nThere are differences in views about the effect of baptism for a Christian. Some Christian groups assert baptism is a requirement for salvation and a sacrament, and speak of \"baptismal regeneration\". Its importance is related to their interpretation of the meaning of the \"Mystical Body of Christ\" as found in the New Testament. This view is shared by the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox denominations, and by Churches formed early during the Protestant Reformation such as Lutheran and Anglican. For example, Martin Luther said:\n\nThe Churches of Christ,\" Jehovah's Witnesses, Christadelphians, and LDS Church also espouse baptism as necessary for salvation.\n\nFor Roman Catholics, baptism by water is a sacrament of initiation into the life of the children of God (\"Catechism of the Catholic Church\", 1212–13). It configures the person to Christ (CCC 1272), and obliges the Christian to share in the Church's apostolic and missionary activity (CCC 1270). The Catholic holds that there are three types of baptism by which one can be saved: sacramental baptism (with water), baptism of desire (explicit or implicit desire to be part of the Church founded by Jesus Christ), and baptism of blood (martyrdom). In his encyclical \"Mystici corporis Christi\" of June 29, 1943, Pope Pius XII spoke of baptism and profession of the true faith as what makes members of the one true Church, which is the body of Jesus Christ himself, as God the Holy Spirit has taught through the Apostle Paul:\nBy contrast, Anabaptist and Evangelical Protestants recognize baptism as an outward sign of an inward reality following on an individual believer's experience of forgiving grace. Reformed and Methodist Protestants maintain a link between baptism and regeneration, but insist that it is not automatic or mechanical, and that regeneration may occur at a different time than baptism.\n\nChurches of Christ consistently teach that in baptism a believer surrenders his life in faith and obedience to God, and that God \"by the merits of Christ's blood, cleanses one from sin and truly changes the state of the person from an alien to a citizen of God's kingdom. Baptism is not a human work; it is the place where God does the work that only God can do.\" Thus, they see baptism as a passive act of faith rather than a meritorious work; it \"is a confession that a person has nothing to offer God\".\n\nThe liturgy of baptism for Catholics, Eastern Orthodox, Lutheran, Anglican, and Methodist makes clear reference to baptism as not only a symbolic burial and resurrection, but an actual supernatural transformation, one that draws parallels to the experience of Noah and the passage of the Israelites through the Red Sea divided by Moses. Thus, baptism is literally and symbolically not only cleansing, but also dying and rising again with Christ. Catholics believe baptism is necessary to cleanse the taint of original sin, and so commonly baptise infants. The Eastern Churches (Eastern Orthodox Church and Oriental Orthodoxy) also baptize infants on the basis of texts, such as Matthew 19:14, which are interpreted as supporting full Church membership for children. In these denominations, baptism is immediately followed by Chrismation and Communion at the next Divine Liturgy, regardless of age. Orthodox likewise believe that baptism removes what they call the ancestral sin of Adam. Anglicans believe that Baptism is also the entry into the Church and therefore allows them access to all rights and responsibilities as full members, including the privilege to receive Holy Communion. Most Methodists and Anglicans agree that it also cleanses the taint of what in the West is called original sin, in the East ancestral sin.\n\nEastern Orthodox Christians usually insist on complete threefold immersion as both a symbol of death and rebirth into Christ, and as a washing away of sin. Latin Church Catholics generally baptize by affusion (pouring); Eastern Catholics usually by submersion, or at least partial immersion. However, submersion is gaining in popularity within the Latin Catholic Church. In newer church sanctuaries, the baptismal font may be designed to expressly allow for baptism by immersion. Anglicans baptize by submersion, immersion, affusion or sprinkling.\n\nAccording to evidence which can be traced back to at latest about the year 200, sponsors or godparents are present at baptism and vow to uphold the Christian education and life of the baptized.\n\nBaptists argue that the Greek word originally meant \"to immerse\". They interpret some Biblical passages concerning baptism as requiring submersion of the body in water. They also state that only submersion reflects the symbolic significance of being \"buried\" and \"raised\" with Christ. Baptist Churches baptize in the name of the Trinity—the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. However, they do not believe that baptism is necessary for salvation; but rather that it is an act of Christian obedience.\n\nSome \"Full Gospel\" charismatic churches such as Oneness Pentecostals baptize only in the name of Jesus Christ, citing Peter's preaching baptism in the name of Jesus as their authority.\n\nIn 1982 the World Council of Churches published the ecumenical paper \"Baptism, Eucharist and Ministry\". The preface of the document states:\n\nA 1997 document, \"Becoming a Christian: The Ecumenical Implications of Our Common Baptism\", gave the views of a commission of experts brought together under the aegis of the World Council of Churches. It states:\n\nThose who heard, who were baptized and entered the community's life, were already made witnesses of and partakers in the promises of God for the last days: the forgiveness of sins through baptism in the name of Jesus and the outpouring of the Holy Ghost on all flesh. Similarly, in what may well be a baptismal pattern, 1 Peter testifies that proclamation of the resurrection of Jesus Christ and teaching about new life lead to purification and new birth. This, in turn, is followed by eating and drinking God's food, by participation in the life of the community—the royal priesthood, the new temple, the people of God—and by further moral formation. At the beginning of 1 Peter the writer sets this baptism in the context of obedience to Christ and sanctification by the Spirit. So baptism into Christ is seen as baptism into the Spirit. In the fourth gospel Jesus' discourse with Nicodemus indicates that birth by water and Spirit becomes the gracious means of entry into the place where God rules.\n\nThe vast majority of Christian denominations admit the theological idea that baptism is a sacrament, that has actual spiritual, holy and salvific effects. Certain key criteria must be complied with for it to be valid, i.e., to actually have those effects. If these key criteria are met, violation of some rules regarding baptism, such as varying the authorized rite for the ceremony, renders the baptism illicit (contrary to the church's laws) but still valid.\n\nOne of the criteria for validity is use of the correct form of words. The Roman Catholic Church teaches that the use of the verb \"baptize\" is essential. Catholics of the Latin Church, Anglicans and Methodists use the form \"I baptize you...\" Eastern Orthodox and some Eastern Catholics use a passive voice form \"The Servant/(Handmaiden) of God is baptized in the name of...\" or \"This person is baptized by my hands...\"\n\nUse of the Trinitarian formula \"in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit\" is also considered essential; thus these churches do not accept as valid baptisms of non-Trinitarian churches such as Oneness Pentecostals. \n\nAnother essential condition is use of water. A baptism in which some liquid that would not usually be called water, such as wine, milk, soup or fruit juice was used would not be considered valid.\n\nAnother requirement is that the celebrant intends to perform baptism. This requirement entails merely the intention \"to do what the Church does\", not necessarily to have Christian faith, since it is not the person baptizing, but the Holy Spirit working through the sacrament, who produces the effects of the sacrament. Doubt about the faith of the baptizer is thus no ground for doubt about the validity of the baptism.\n\nSome conditions expressly do not affect validity—for example, whether submersion, immersion, affusion or aspersion is used. However, if water is sprinkled, there is a danger that the water may not touch the skin of the unbaptized. As has been stated, \"it is not sufficient for the water to merely touch the candidate; it must also flow, otherwise there would seem to be no real ablution. At best, such a baptism would be considered doubtful. If the water touches only the hair, the sacrament has probably been validly conferred, though in practice the safer course must be followed. If only the clothes of the person have received the aspersion, the baptism is undoubtedly void.\" For many communions, validity is not affected if a single submersion or pouring is performed rather than a triple, but in Orthodoxy this is controversial.\n\nAccording to the Catholic Church, baptism imparts an indelible \"seal\" upon the soul of the baptized and therefore a person who has already been baptized cannot be validly baptized again. This teaching was affirmed against the Donatists who practiced rebaptism. The grace received in baptism is believed to operate \"ex opere operato\" and is therefore considered valid even if administered in heretical or schismatic groups.\n\nThe Catholic, Lutheran, Anglican, Presbyterian and Methodist Churches accept baptism performed by other denominations within this group as valid, subject to certain conditions, including the use of the Trinitarian formula. It is only possible to be baptized once, thus people with valid baptisms from other denominations may not be baptized again upon conversion or transfer. For Roman Catholics, this is affirmed in the Canon Law 864, in which it is written that \"[e]very person not yet baptized and only such a person is capable of baptism.\" Such people are accepted upon making a profession of faith and, if they have not yet validly received the sacrament/rite of confirmation or chrismation, by being confirmed. Specifically, \"Methodist theologians argued that since God never abrogated a covenant made and sealed with proper intentionality, rebaptism was never an option, unless the original baptism had been defective by not having been made in the name of the Trinity.\" In some cases it can be difficult to decide if the original baptism was in fact valid; if there is doubt, conditional baptism is administered, with a formula on the lines of \"If you are not yet baptized, I baptize you...\"\n\nIn the still recent past, it was common practice in the Roman Catholic Church to baptize conditionally almost every convert from Protestantism because of a perceived difficulty in judging about the validity in any concrete case. In the case of the major Protestant Churches, agreements involving assurances about the manner in which they administer baptism has ended this practice, which sometimes continues for other groups of Protestants. The Catholic Church has always recognized the validity of baptism in the Churches of Eastern Christianity, but it has explicitly denied the validity of the baptism conferred in the LDS Church.\n\nPractice in the Eastern Orthodox Church for converts from other communions is not uniform. However, generally baptisms performed in the name of the Holy Trinity are accepted by the Orthodox Christian Church. If a convert has not received the sacrament (mysterion) of baptism, he or she must be baptised in the name of the Holy Trinity before they may enter into communion with the Orthodox Church. If he has been baptized in another Christian confession (other than Orthodox Christianity) his previous baptism is considered retroactively filled with grace by chrismation or, in rare circumstances, confession of faith alone as long as the baptism was done in the name of the Holy Trinity (Father, Son and Holy Spirit). The exact procedure is dependent on local canons and is the subject of some controversy.\n\nOriental Orthodox Churches recognise the validity of baptisms performed within the Eastern Orthodox Communion. Some also recognise baptisms performed by Catholic Churches. Any supposed baptism not performed using the Trinitarian formula is considered invalid.\n\nIn the eyes of the Catholic Church, all Orthodox Churches, Anglican and Lutheran Churches, the baptism conferred by the LDS Church is invalid. An article published together with the official declaration to that effect gave reasons for that judgment, summed up in the following words: \"The Baptism of the Catholic Church and that of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints differ essentially, both for what concerns faith in the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, in whose name Baptism is conferred, and for what concerns the relationship to Christ who instituted it.\"\n\nThe LDS Church stresses that baptism must be administered by one having proper authority; consequently, the church does not recognize the baptism of any other church as valid.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses do not recognise any other baptism occurring after 1914 as valid, as they believe that they are now the one true church of Christ, and that the rest of \"Christendom\" is false religion.\n\nThere is debate among Christian churches as to who can administer baptism. Some claim that the examples given in the New Testament only show apostles and deacons administering baptism. Ancient Christian churches interpret this as indicating that baptism should be performed by the clergy except \"in extremis\", i.e., when the one being baptized is in immediate danger of death. Then anyone may baptize, provided, in the view of the Eastern Orthodox Church, the person who does the baptizing is a member of that Church, or, in the view of the Catholic Church, that the person, even if not baptized, intends to do what the Church does in administering the rite. Many Protestant churches see no specific prohibition in the biblical examples and permit any believer to baptize another.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, canon law for the Latin Church lays down that the ordinary minister of baptism is a bishop, priest or deacon, but its administration is one of the functions \"especially entrusted to the parish priest\". If the person to be baptized is at least fourteen years old, that person's baptism is to be referred to the bishop, so that he can decide whether to confer the baptism himself. If no ordinary minister is available, a catechist or some other person whom the local ordinary has appointed for this purpose may licitly do the baptism; indeed in a case of necessity \"any\" person (irrespective of that person's religion) who has the requisite intention may confer the baptism By \"a case of necessity\" is meant imminent danger of death because of either illness or an external threat. \"The requisite intention\" is, at the minimum level, the intention \"to do what the Church does\" through the rite of baptism.\n\nIn the Eastern Catholic Churches, a deacon is not considered an ordinary minister. Administration of the sacrament is reserved to the Parish Priest or to another priest to whom he or the local hierarch grants permission, a permission that can be presumed if in accordance with canon law. However, \"in case of necessity, baptism can be administered by a deacon or, in his absence or if he is impeded, by another cleric, a member of an institute of consecrated life, or by any other Christian faithful; even by the mother or father, if another person is not available who knows how to baptize.\"\n\nThe discipline of the Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodoxy and the Assyrian Church of the East is similar to that of the Eastern Catholic Churches. They require the baptizer, even in cases of necessity, to be of their own faith, on the grounds that a person cannot convey what he himself does not possess, in this case membership in the Church. The Latin Catholic Church does not insist on this condition, considering that the effect of the sacrament, such as membership of the Church, is not produced by the person who baptizes, but by the Holy Spirit. For the Orthodox, while Baptism \"in extremis\" may be administered by a deacon or any lay-person, if the newly baptized person survives, a priest must still perform the other prayers of the Rite of Baptism, and administer the Mystery of Chrismation.\n\nThe discipline of Anglicanism and Lutheranism is similar to that of the Latin Catholic Church. For Methodists and many other Protestant denominations, too, the ordinary minister of baptism is a duly ordained or appointed minister of religion.\n\nNewer movements of Protestant Evangelical churches, particularly non-denominational, allow laypeople to baptize.\n\nIn the LDS Church, only a man who has been ordained to the Aaronic priesthood holding the priesthood office of priest or higher office in the Melchizedek priesthood may administer baptism.\n\nA Jehovah's Witnesses baptism is performed by a \"dedicated male\" adherent. Only in extraordinary circumstances would a \"dedicated\" baptizer be unbaptized (see section \"Jehovah's Witnesses\").\n\nAnabaptists and Baptists recognize only believer's baptism or \"adult baptism\". Baptism is seen as an act identifying one as having accepted Jesus Christ as savior.\n\nEarly Anabaptists were given that name because they re-baptized persons who they felt had not been properly baptized, having received infant baptism, sprinkling.\n\nThe traditional form of Anabaptist baptism was pouring or sprinkling, the form commonly used in the West in the early 16th century when they emerged. Since the 18th century immersion and submersion became more widespread. Today all forms of baptism can be found among Anabaptist.\n\nBaptism memorializes the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus. Baptism does not accomplish anything in itself, but is an outward personal sign or testimony that the person's sins have already been washed away by the blood of Christ's cross. It is considered a covenantal act, signifying entrance into the New Covenant of Christ.\n\nFor the majority of Baptists, Christian baptism is the immersion of a believer in water in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. It is an act of obedience symbolizing the believer's faith in a crucified, buried, and risen Saviour, the believer's death to sin, the burial of the old life, and the resurrection to walk in newness of life in Christ Jesus. It is a testimony to the believer's faith in the final resurrection of the dead.\n\nFurthermore, for a new convert the general practice is that baptism also allows the person to be a registered member of the local Baptist congregation (though some churches have adopted \"new members classes\" as a mandatory step for congregational membership).\n\nRegarding rebaptism the general rules are:\n\nBaptism in Churches of Christ is performed only by full bodily immersion, based on the Koine Greek verb \"baptizo\" which means to dip, immerse, submerge or plunge. Submersion is seen as more closely conforming to the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus than other modes of baptism. Churches of Christ argue that historically immersion was the mode used in the 1st century, and that pouring and sprinkling later emerged as secondary modes when immersion was not possible. Over time these secondary modes came to replace immersion. Only those mentally capable of belief and repentance are baptized (i.e., infant baptism is not practiced because the New Testament has no precedent for it).\n\nChurches of Christ have historically had the most conservative position on baptism among the various branches of the Restoration Movement, understanding baptism by immersion to be a necessary part of conversion. The most significant disagreements concerned the extent to which a correct understanding of the role of baptism is necessary for its validity. David Lipscomb insisted that if a believer was baptized out of a desire to obey God, the baptism was valid, even if the individual did not fully understand the role baptism plays in salvation. Austin McGary contended that to be valid, the convert must also understand that baptism is for the forgiveness of sins. McGary's view became the prevailing one in the early 20th century, but the approach advocated by Lipscomb never totally disappeared. As such, the general practice among churches of Christ is to require rebaptism by immersion of converts, even those who were previously baptized by immersion in other churches.\n\nMore recently, the rise of the International Churches of Christ has caused some to reexamine the issue.\n\nChurches of Christ consistently teach that in baptism a believer surrenders his life in faith and obedience to God, and that God \"by the merits of Christ's blood, cleanses one from sin and truly changes the state of the person from an alien to a citizen of God's kingdom. Baptism is not a human work; it is the place where God does the work that only God can do.\" Baptism is a passive act of faith rather than a meritorious work; it \"is a confession that a person has nothing to offer God.\" While Churches of Christ do not describe baptism as a \"sacrament\", their view of it can legitimately be described as \"sacramental.\" They see the power of baptism coming from God, who chose to use baptism as a vehicle, rather than from the water or the act itself, and understand baptism to be an integral part of the conversion process, rather than just a symbol of conversion. A recent trend is to emphasize the transformational aspect of baptism: instead of describing it as just a legal requirement or sign of something that happened in the past, it is seen as \"the event that places the believer 'into Christ' where God does the ongoing work of transformation.\" There is a minority that downplays the importance of baptism in order to avoid sectarianism, but the broader trend is to \"reexamine the richness of the biblical teaching of baptism and to reinforce its central and essential place in Christianity.\"\n\nBecause of the belief that baptism is a necessary part of salvation, some Baptists hold that the Churches of Christ endorse the doctrine of baptismal regeneration. However, members of the Churches of Christ reject this, arguing that since faith and repentance are necessary, and that the cleansing of sins is by the blood of Christ through the grace of God, baptism is not an inherently redeeming ritual. Rather, their inclination is to point to the biblical passage in which Peter, analogizing baptism to Noah's flood, posits that \"likewise baptism doth also now save us\" but parenthetically clarifies that baptism is \"\"not\" the putting away of the filth of the flesh but the \"response of a good conscience\" toward God\" (1 Peter 3:21). One author from the churches of Christ describes the relationship between faith and baptism this way, \"\"Faith\" is the \"reason why\" a person is a child of God; \"baptism\" is the \"time at which\" one is incorporated into Christ and so becomes a child of God\" (italics are in the source). Baptism is understood as a confessional expression of faith and repentance, rather than a \"work\" that earns salvation.\n\nThe Methodist Articles of Religion, with regard to baptism, teach:\n\nWhile baptism imparts regenerating grace, its permanence is contingent upon repentance and a personal committment to Jesus Christ.\nIn the Methodist Churches, baptism is a sacrament of initiation into the visible Church. Wesleyan covenant theology further teaches that baptism is a sign and a seal of the covenant of grace:\nMethodists recognize three modes of baptism as being valid—\"immersion, sprinkling, or pouring\" in the name of the Holy Trinity.\n\nIn Reformed baptismal theology, baptism is seen as primarily God's offer of union with Christ and all his benefits to the baptized. This offer is believed to be intact even when it is not received in faith by the person baptized. Reformed theologians believe the Holy Spirit brings into effect the promises signified in baptism. Baptism is held by almost the entire Reformed tradition to effect regeneration, even in infants who are incapable of faith, by effecting faith which would come to fruition later. Baptism also initiates one into the visible church and the covenant of grace. Baptism is seen as a replacement of circumcision, which is considered the rite of initiation into the covenant of grace in the Old Testament.\n\nReformed Christians believe that immersion is not necessary for baptism to be properly performed, but that pouring or sprinkling are acceptable. Only ordained ministers are permitted to administer baptism in Reformed churches, with no allowance for emergency baptism, though baptisms performed by non-ministers are generally considered valid. Reformed churches, while rejecting the baptismal ceremonies of the Roman Catholic church, accept the validity of baptisms performed with them and do not rebaptize.\n\nIn Catholic teaching, baptism is stated to be \"necessary for salvation by actual reception or at least by desire\". This teaching is based on Jesus' words in the Gospel according to John: \"Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God.\" It dates back to the teachings and practices of 1st-century Christians, and the connection between salvation and baptism was not, on the whole, an item of major dispute until Huldrych Zwingli denied the necessity of baptism, which he saw as merely a sign granting admission to the Christian community. The Catechism of the Catholic Church states that \"Baptism is necessary for salvation for those to whom the Gospel has been proclaimed and who have had the possibility of asking for this sacrament.\" The Council of Trent also states in the \"Decree Concerning Justification\" from session six that baptism is necessary for salvation. A person who knowingly, willfully and unrepentantly rejects baptism has no hope of salvation. However, if knowledge is absent, \"those also can attain to salvation who through no fault of their own do not know the Gospel of Christ or His Church, yet sincerely seek God and moved by grace strive by their deeds to do His will as it is known to them through the dictates of conscience.\"\n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church also states: \"Since Baptism signifies liberation from sin and from its instigator the devil, one or more exorcisms are pronounced over the candidate\". In the Roman Rite of the baptism of a child, the wording of the prayer of exorcism is: \"Almighty and ever-living God, you sent your only Son into the world to cast out the power of Satan, spirit of evil, to rescue man from the kingdom of darkness and bring him into the splendour of your kingdom of light. We pray for this child: set him (her) free from original sin, make him (her) a temple of your glory, and send your Holy Spirit to dwell with him (her). Through Christ our Lord.\"\n\nIn the Catholic Church by baptism all sins are forgiven, original sin and all personal sins. Given once for all, baptism cannot be repeated. Baptism not only purifies from all sins, but also makes the neophyte \"a new creature,\" an adopted son of God, who has become a \"partaker of the divine nature,\" member of Christ and co-heir with him, and a temple of the Holy Spirit. Sanctifying grace, the grace of justification, given by God by baptism, erases the original sin and personal actual sins.\n\nCatholics are baptized in water, by submersion, immersion or affusion, in the name (singular) of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit—not three gods, but one God subsisting in three Persons. While sharing in the one divine essence, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are distinct, not simply three \"masks\" or manifestations of one divine being. The faith of the Church and of the individual Christian is based on a relationship with these three \"Persons\" of the one God. Adults can also be baptized through the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults.\n\nIt is claimed that Pope Stephen I, St. Ambrose and Pope Nicholas I declared that baptisms in the name of \"Jesus\" only as well as in the name of \"Father, Son and Holy Spirit\" were valid. The correct interpretation of their words is disputed. Current canonical law requires the Trinitarian formula and water for validity.\n\nThe Church recognizes two equivalents of baptism with water: \"baptism of blood\" and \"baptism of desire\". Baptism of blood is that undergone by unbaptized individuals who are martyred for their faith, while baptism of desire generally applies to catechumens who die before they can be baptized. The Catechism of the Catholic Church describes these two forms:\n\nThe Church has always held the firm conviction that those who suffer death for the sake of the faith without having received Baptism are baptized by their death for and with Christ. This \"Baptism of blood\", like the desire for Baptism, brings about the fruits of Baptism without being a sacrament. (1258)\n\nFor catechumens who die before their Baptism, their explicit desire to receive it, together with repentance for their sins, and charity, assures them the salvation that they were not able to receive through the sacrament. (1259)\n\nThe Catholic Church holds that those who are ignorant of Christ's Gospel and of the Church, but who seek the truth and do God's will as they understand it, may be supposed to have an implicit desire for baptism and can be saved: \"'Since Christ died for all, and since all men are in fact called to one and the same destiny, which is divine, we must hold that the Holy Spirit offers to all the possibility of being made partakers, in a way known to God, of the Paschal mystery.' Every man who is ignorant of the Gospel of Christ and of his Church, but seeks the truth and does the will of God in accordance with his understanding of it, can be saved. It may be supposed that such persons would have desired Baptism explicitly if they had known its necessity.\" As for unbaptized infants, the Church is unsure of their fate; \"the Church can only entrust them to the mercy of God\".\n\nJehovah's Witnesses believe that baptism should be performed by complete immersion (submersion) only when an individual is old enough to understand its significance. They believe that water baptism is an outward symbol that a person has made an unconditional dedication through Jesus Christ to do the will of God. They consider baptism to constitute ordination as a minister.\n\nProspective candidates for baptism must express their desire to be baptized well in advance of a planned baptismal event, to allow for congregation elders to assess their suitability. Elders approve candidates for baptism if the candidates are considered to understand what is expected of members of the religion and to demonstrate sincere dedication to the faith.\n\nMost baptisms among Jehovah's Witnesses are performed at scheduled assemblies and conventions by elders and ministerial servants and rarely occur at local Kingdom Halls. Prior to baptism, at the conclusion of a pre-baptism talk, candidates must affirm two questions:\nOnly baptized males may baptize new members. Baptizers and candidates wear swimsuits or other informal clothing for baptism, but are directed to avoid clothing that is considered undignified or revealing. Generally, candidates are individually immersed by a single baptizer, unless a candidate has special circumstances such as a physical disability. In circumstances of extended isolation, a qualified candidate's dedication and stated intention to become baptized may serve to identify him as a member of Jehovah's Witnesses, even if immersion itself must be delayed. In rare instances, unbaptized males who had stated such an intention have reciprocally baptized each other, with both baptisms accepted as valid. Individuals who had been baptized in the 1930s and 1940s by female Witnesses, such as in concentration camps, were later re-baptized but recognized their original baptism dates.\n\nIn The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), baptism has the main purpose of remitting the sins of the participant. It is followed by confirmation, which inducts the person into membership in the church and constitutes a baptism with the Holy Spirit. Latter-day Saints believe that baptism must be by full immersion, and by a precise ritualized ordinance: if some part of the participant is not fully immersed, or the ordinance was not recited verbatim, the ritual must be repeated. It typically occurs in a baptismal font.\n\nIn addition, members of the LDS Church do not believe a baptism is valid unless it is performed by a Latter-day Saint one who has proper authority (a priest or elder). Authority is passed down through a form of apostolic succession. All new converts to the faith must be baptized or re-baptized. Baptism is seen as symbolic both of Jesus' death, burial and resurrection and is also symbolic of the baptized individual discarding their \"natural\" self and donning a new identity as a disciple of Jesus.\n\nAccording to Latter-day Saint theology, faith and repentance are prerequisites to baptism. The ritual does not cleanse the participant of original sin, as Latter-day Saints do not believe the doctrine of original sin. Mormonism rejects infant baptism and baptism must occur after the age of accountability, defined in Latter-day Saint scripture as eight years old.\n\nLatter-day Saint theology also teaches baptism for the dead in which deceased ancestors are baptized vicariously by the living, and believe that their practice is what Paul wrote of in Corinthians 15:29. This occurs in Latter-day Saint temples.\n\nQuakers (members of the Religious Society of Friends) do not believe in the baptism of either children or adults with water, rejecting all forms of outward sacraments in their religious life. Robert Barclay's \"Apology for the True Christian Divinity\" (a historic explanation of Quaker theology from the 17th century), explains Quakers' opposition to baptism with water thus:\n\nBarclay argued that water baptism was only something that happened until the time of Christ, but that now, people are baptised inwardly by the spirit of Christ, and hence there is no need for the external sacrament of water baptism, which Quakers argue is meaningless.\n\nThe Salvation Army does not practice water baptism, or indeed other outward sacraments. William Booth and Catherine Booth, the founders of the Salvation Army, believed that many Christians had come to rely on the outward signs of spiritual grace rather than on grace itself. They believed what was important was spiritual grace itself. However, although the Salvation Army does not practice baptism, they are not opposed to baptism within other Christian denominations.\n\nThere are some Christians termed \"Hyperdispensationalists\" (Mid-Acts dispensationalism) who accept only Paul's Epistles as directly applicable for the church today. They do not accept water baptism as a practice for the church since Paul who was God's apostle to the nations was not sent to baptize. Ultradispensationalists (Acts 28 dispensationalism) who do not accept the practice of the Lord's supper, do not practice baptism because these are not found in the Prison Epistles. Both sects believe water baptism was a valid practice for covenant Israel. Hyperdispensationalists also teach that Peter's gospel message was not the same as Paul's. Hyperdispensationalists assert:\n\n\nWater baptism found early in the Book of Acts is, according to this view, now supplanted by the one baptism foretold by John the Baptist. Others make a distinction between John's prophesied baptism by Christ with the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit's baptism of the believer into the body of Christ; the latter being the one baptism for today. The one baptism for today, it is asserted, is the \"baptism of the Holy Spirit\" of the believer into the Body of Christ church.\n\nMany in this group also argue that John's promised baptism by fire is pending, referring to the destruction of the world by fire.\n\nJohn, as he said \"baptized with water\", as did Jesus's disciples to the early, Jewish Christian church. Jesus himself never personally baptized with water, but did so through his disciples. Unlike Jesus' first apostles, Paul, his apostle to the Gentiles, was sent to preach rather than to baptize in contradiction to the Great Commission. But Paul did occasionally still baptize Jews, for instance in Corinth and in Philippi. He also taught the spiritual significance of Spirit baptism in identifying the believer with the atoning death of Christ, his burial, and resurrection. Romans 6 baptism does not mention nor imply water but is rather a real baptism into Christ's death.\n\nOther Hyperdispensationalists believe that baptism was necessary until mid-Acts. The great commission and its baptism was directed to early Jewish believers, not the Gentile believers of mid-Acts or later. Any Jew who believed did not receive salvation or the baptism of the Holy Spirit until they were water baptized. This period ended with the calling of Paul. Peter's reaction when the Gentiles received the Holy Spirit before baptism is seen as proof of transition from water to Spirit baptism. Also significant is the lack of any instructions in the Acts 15 apostolic conference requiring Gentiles to be water baptized.\n\nMost Christian churches see baptism as a once-in-a-lifetime event that can be neither repeated nor undone. They hold that those who have been baptized remain baptized, even if they renounce the Christian faith by adopting a non-Christian religion or by rejecting religion entirely. But some other organizations and individuals are practicing debaptism.\n\nComparative Summary of Baptisms of Denominations of Christian Influence. (This section does not give a complete listing of denominations, and therefore, it only mentions a fraction of the churches practicing \"believer's baptism\".)\n\nMany cultures practice or have practiced initiation rites, with or without the use of water, including the ancient Egyptian, the Hebraic/Jewish, the Babylonian, the Mayan, and the Norse cultures. The modern Japanese practice of Miyamairi is such as ceremony that does not use water. In some, such evidence may be archaeological and descriptive in nature, rather than a modern practice.\n\nApuleius, a 2nd-century Roman writer, described an initiation into the mysteries of Isis. The initiation was preceded by a normal bathing in the public baths and a ceremonial sprinkling by the priest of Isis, after which the candidate was given secret instructions in the temple of the goddess. The candidate then fasted for ten days from meat and wine, after which he was dressed in linen and led at night into the innermost part of the sanctuary, where the actual initiation, the details of which were secret, took place. On the next two days, dressed in the robes of his consecration, he participated in feasting. Apuleius describes also an initiation into the cult of Osiris and yet a third initiation, of the same pattern as the initiation into the cult of Isis, without mention of a preliminary bathing.\n\nThe water-less initiations of Lucius, the character in Apuleius's story who had been turned into an ass and changed back by Isis into human form, into the successive degrees of the rites of the goddess was accomplished only after a significant period of study to demonstrate his loyalty and trustworthiness, akin to catechumenal practices preceding baptism in Christianity.\n\nThe Ecclesia Gnostica Catholica, or Gnostic Catholic Church (the ecclesiastical arm of Ordo Templi Orientis), offers its Rite of Baptism to any person at least 11 years old. The ceremony is performed before a Gnostic Mass and represents a symbolic birth into the Thelemic community.\n\nThe word \"baptism\" or \"christening\" is sometimes used to describe the inauguration of certain objects for use.\n\n\"Baptism of Ships\": at least since the time of the Crusades, rituals have contained a blessing for ships. The priest begs God to bless the vessel and protect those who sail in. The ship is usually sprinkled with holy water.\n\nThe name \"Baptism of Bells\" has been given to the blessing of (musical, especially church) bells, at least in France, since the 11th century. It is derived from the washing of the bell with holy water by the bishop, before he anoints it with the oil of the infirm without and with chrism within; a fuming censer is placed under it and the bishop prays that these sacramentals of the Church may, at the sound of the bell, put the demons to flight, protect from storms, and call the faithful to prayer.\n\n\"Baptism of Dolls\": the custom of 'dolly dunking' was once a common practice in parts of the United Kingdom, particularly in Cornwall where it has been revived in recent years.\n\nMandaeans revere John the Baptist and practice frequent baptism as a ritual of purification, not of initiation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "82889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82889", "title": "Cabeiri", "text": "Cabeiri\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Cabeiri or Cabiri (, \"Kábeiroi\"), also transliterated Kabiri , were a group of enigmatic chthonic deities. They were worshiped in a mystery cult closely associated with that of Hephaestus, centered in the north Aegean islands of Lemnos and possibly Samothrace—at the Samothrace temple complex—and at Thebes. In their distant origins the Cabeiri and the Samothracian gods may include pre-Greek elements, or other non-Greek elements, such as Thracian, Tyrrhenian, Pelasgian, Phrygian or Hittite. The Lemnian cult was always local to Lemnos, but the Samothracian mystery cult spread rapidly throughout the Greek world during the Hellenistic period, eventually initiating Romans.\n\nThe ancient sources disagree about whether the deities of Samothrace were Cabeiri or not; and the accounts of the two cults differ in detail. But the two islands are close to each other, at the northern end of the Aegean, and the cults are at least similar, and neither fits easily into the Olympic pantheon: the Cabeiri were given a mythic genealogy as sons of Hephaestus and Cabeiro. The accounts of the Samothracian gods, whose names were secret, differ in the number and sexes of the gods: usually between two and four, some of either sex. The number of Cabeiri also varies, with some accounts citing four (often a pair of males and a pair of females), and some even more, such as a tribe or whole race of Cabeiri, often presented as all male.\n\nThe Cabeiri were also worshipped at other sites in the vicinity, including Seuthopolis in Thrace and various sites in Asia Minor. According to Strabo, Cabeiri are most honored in Imbros and Lemnos but also in other cities too.\n\nThe Cabeiri were possibly originally Phrygian deities and protectors of sailors, who were imported into Greek ritual. R. S. P. Beekes believes that their name is of non-Indo-European, pre-Greek origin.\n\nIn the past, the Semitic word \"kabir\" (\"great\") has been compared to Κάβειροι since at least Joseph Justus Scaliger in the sixteenth century, but nothing else seemed to point to a Semitic origin, until the idea of \"great\" gods expressed by the Semitic root \"kbr\" was definitively attested for North Syria in the thirteenth century BCE, in texts from Emar published by D. Arnaud in 1985–87. Friedrich Wilhelm Schelling connected the Greek word to the Hebrew חבר (\"khaver\" \"friend, associate\") and via this to several priest names as one attached to the Persians (\"Chaverim\"), linking them to the Dioskouri or priestly blacksmiths alternatively. T. J. Wackernagel produced an Indian etymology in 1907; in 1925 A. H. Sayce had suggested a connection to Hittite \"habiri\" (\"looters\", \"outlaws\"), but subsequent discoveries have made this implausible on phonological grounds. Dossein compares Κάβειροι to the Sumerian word \"kabar\", \"copper.\"\n\nThe name of the \"Cabeiri\" recalls Mount Kabeiros, a mountain in the region of Berekyntia in Asia Minor, closely associated with the Phrygian Mother Goddess. The name of Kadmilus (Καδμῖλος), or \"Kasmilos\", one of the Cabeiri who was usually depicted as a young boy, was linked even in antiquity to \"Camillus\", an old Latin word for a boy-attendant in a cult, likely a loan from the Etruscan language, which may be related to Lemnian. However, according to Beekes, the name \"Kadmilus\" may be of pre-Greek origin, as seems to be the case with the name \"Cadmus\".\n\nThey were most commonly depicted as two people: an old man, Axiocersus, and his son, Cadmilus. Due to the cult's secrecy, however, their exact nature and relationship with other ancient Greek and Thracian religious figures remained mysterious. As a result, the membership and roles of the Cabeiri changed significantly over time, with common variants including a female pair (Axierus and Axiocersa) and twin youths (frequently confused with Castor and Pollux, who were also worshiped as protectors of sailors).\n\nThe Lemnians were originally non-Greek; they were Hellenized after Miltiades conquered the island for Athens in the sixth century BCE. In Lemnos the cult of the Cabeiri survived, according to archaeological evidence, through the conquest: an ancient sanctuary dedicated to the Cabeiri is identifiable by traces of inscriptions, and seems to have survived the program of Hellenization. Walter Burkert records that wine jars are \"the only characteristic group of finds\" from the Cabeirium of Lemnos and that the Cabeirium was the location for initiation into an ancient mystery cult. However, due to the secret nature of mystery cults in the ancient world little survives to indicate what was involved in these initiation ceremonies; indeed, Hugh Bowden notes that on the basis of our evidence we do not know what happened at Lemnos beyond the fact of initiation, and that 'we have no descriptions and nothing on which even to base speculation'. \n\nThe geographer Strabo reported (Geogr. 10,3,21) that in Lemnos, the mother (there was no father) of the Cabeiri was Kabeiro (Greek: Καβειρώ) herself, a daughter of Nereus (one of the \"old men of the sea\") and a goddess whom the Greeks might have called Rhea.\n\nIn general Greek myth identifies the Cabeiri as divine craftsmen, sons or grandsons of Hephaestus, who was also chiefly worshipped on Lemnos. Aeschylus wrote a tragedy called \"The Kabeiroi\", which apparently featured the deities as a chorus greeting the Argonauts at Lemnos and the Argonauts' initiation into the cult of the Cabeiri.\n\nThe Samothracians were also originally non-Greek, and are associated with the Trojans and the Pelasgians; they used a foreign language in the temple through Julius Caesar's time. Samothrace offered an initiatory mystery, which promised safety and prosperity to seamen. The secret of these mysteries has largely been kept; but we know that of three things about the ritual, the aspirants were asked the worst action they had ever committed.\n\nThe mysteries of Samothrace did not publish the names of their gods; and the offerings at the shrine are all inscribed \"to the gods\" or \"to the great gods\" rather than with their names. But ancient sources tell us that there were two goddesses and a god: \"Axieros\", \"Axiokersa\", and \"Axiokersos\", and their servant \"Cadmilos\" or \"Casmilos\". Karl Kerényi conjectured that Axieros was male, and the three gods were the sons of Axiokersa (Cadmilos, the youngest, was also the father of the three); Burkert disagrees.\n\nIn Classical Greek culture the mysteries of the Cabeiri at Samothrace remained popular, though little was entrusted to writing beyond a few names and bare genealogical connections. Seamen among the Greeks might invoke the Cabeiri as \"great gods\" in times of danger and stress. The archaic sanctuary of Samothrace was rebuilt in Greek fashion; by classical times, the Samothrace mysteries of the Cabeiri were known at Athens. Herodotus had been initiated. But at the entrance to the sanctuary, which has been thoroughly excavated, the Roman antiquary Varro learned that there had been twin pillars of brass, phallic hermae, and that in the sanctuary it was understood that the child of the Goddess, Cadmilus, was in some mystic sense also her consort. Varro also describes these twin pillars as Heaven and Earth, denying the vulgar error that they are Castor and Pollux.\n\nAt Thebes in Boeotia there are more varied finds than on Lemnos; they include many little bronze votive bulls and which carry on into Roman times, when the traveller Pausanias, always alert to the history of cults, learned that it was Demeter \"Kabeiriia\" who instigated the initiation cult there in the name of Prometheus and his son Aitnaios. Walter Burkert (1985) writes, \"This points to guilds of smiths analogous to the Lemnian Hephaistos.\" The votive dedications at Thebes are to a \"Kabeiros\" (Greek: Κάβειρος) in the singular, and childish toys like votive spinning tops for \"Pais\" suggest a manhood initiation. Copious wine was drunk, out of characteristic cups that were ritually smashed. Fat, primitive dwarves (similar to the followers of Silenus) with prominent genitalia were painted on the cups. Thebes is connected to Samothrace in myth, primarily the wedding of Cadmus and Harmonia, which took place there.\n\nIn myth, the Cabeiri bear many similarities to other fabulous races, such as the Telchines of Rhodes, the Cyclopes, the Dactyls, the Korybantes, and the Kuretes. These different groups were often confused or identified with one another since many of them, like the Cyclopes and Telchines, were also associated with metallurgy.\n\nDiodorus Siculus said of the Cabeiri that they were \"Idaioi dactyloi\" (\"Idaian Dactyls\"). The Idaian Dactyls were a race of divine beings associated with the Mother Goddess and with Mount Ida, a mountain in Phrygia sacred to the goddess. Hesychius of Alexandria wrote that the Cabeiri were \"karkinoi\" (\"crabs\", in modern Greek: \"Καβούρια\", \"kavouria\"). The Cabeiri as Karkinoi were apparently thought of as amphibious beings (again recalling the Telchines). They had pincers instead of hands, which they used as tongs (Greek: \"karkina\") in metalworking.\n\nIt has been suggested by Comyns Beaumont that the Orphic mysteries may have had their origins with the Cabeiri.\n\n"}
{"id": "2922453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2922453", "title": "Charlotte Maria Tucker", "text": "Charlotte Maria Tucker\n\nCharlotte Maria Tucker (8 May 1821 – 2 December 1893) was a prolific writer and poet for children and adults, who wrote under the pseudonym A.L.O.E. (a Lady of England). Late in life she spent a period as a volunteer missionary in India, where she died.\n\nCharlotte Tucker was born at Friern Hatch near Friern Barnet, Middlesex, the daughter of Henry St George Tucker (1771/2–1851), twice elected chairman of the British East India Company, and his wife Jane Boswell (died 1869), the daughter of an Edinburgh writer to the signet. The family moved to London in 1822. Her father was the author of \"Tragedies: 'Harold' and 'Camoens\"' (London, 1835).\n\nCharlotte had a secular upbringing, and her first writings were poems and plays to amuse the family. In 1847, she took charge of the education of her brother Robert's three children. Her earliest book \"The Claremont Tales\" (1852) was, she said, \"originally composed for young children under my charge.\"\n\nThe work of Charlotte Tucker as a children's writer was imbued with her Evangelical religious beliefs. Most of her stories were allegories with a clear moral, but she leavened her didacticism with a degree of realism and naturalism. As she explained in an 1851 letter to a publisher, \"My position in life renders me independent of any exertions of my own; I pray but for God's blessing upon my attempts to instruct His lambs in the things which concern their everlasting welfare.\"\n\nMany of her 150 or more titles appeared in magazines before being collected into books. Among her many titles were \"The Rambles of a Rat\", \"Parliament in the Play-Room\" (1863), \"Triumph over Midian\" (1866), \"A Wreath of Smoke\" (1871) and \"Pomegranates from the Punjab\" (1878). A biography by a fellow children's writer, Agnes Giberne, appeared in 1895.\n\nThe proceeds from her writings she often devoted to missionary or charity work. Tucker's contemporaries criticized the strong didacticism in her writing, but her creed was concerned not with original sin but with the chance of improvement for all people and races. Her realistic portrayals of the poor may have drawn on her experience as a workhouse visitor in Marylebone. Titles of hers are still occasionally reissued by publishers specializing in Christian books, including Lamplighter Ministries, an American nonprofit organization headquartered in Mount Morris, New York, best known for its Lamplighter Family Collection series.\n\nMany of Tucker's most interesting stories are set in India. Some were translated into Indian languages. She set out for India in 1875, at the age of 54, having taught herself Hindustani. There she worked as a self-supporting volunteer missionary to Amritsar, Punjab, through the Indian Female Normal School and Instruction Society. Three years later she moved to nearby Batala, where she worked in a boys' school and as a teacher of Christian beliefs to native women. She died in Amritsar on 2 December 1893.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9134639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9134639", "title": "Chen Yueyi", "text": "Chen Yueyi\n\nChen Yueyi (; 565?-650?), later Buddhist nun name Huaguang (華光), was a concubine of Emperor Xuan of Northern Zhou, an emperor of the Chinese/Xianbei dynasty Northern Zhou.\n\nChen Yueyi's father was Chen Shanti (陳山提), and she was his eighth daughter. Chen Shanti was initially a servant of the Northern Wei general Erzhu Zhao, and after Erzhu's defeat by Gao Huan became a servant to Gao. He served as a general in several administrations of Northern Qi, founded by Gao's son Emperor Wenxuan of Northern Qi, eventually achieving the title of Prince of Xieyang. After Emperor Wu of Northern Zhou destroyed Northern Qi in 577, Chen Shanti became a Northern Zhou general and carried the title of Duke of Xiyang. In 579, Chen Yueyi was selected to be an imperial consort for Emperor Xuan, with the title of \"Defei\" (德妃). A month later, Emperor Xuan passed the throne to his son Emperor Jing and took an atypical title for a retired emperor, \"Emperor Tianyuan\" (天元皇帝, \"Tianyuan Huangdi\"). He subsequently decided that in addition to his wife Yang Lihua, he would create three more empresses, and Consort Chen was selected as one—with the title of \"Empress Tianzuo\" (天左皇后, \"Tianzuo Huanghou\"), subsequently changed in spring 580 to \"Tianzuo Da Huanghou\" (天左大皇后). Subsequently, as he wanted to create one more empress, he changed her title to \"Tianzhong Da Huanghou\" (天中大皇后) so that her \"Tianzuo Da Huanghou\" title could be given to Empress Yuchi Chifan. Among the empresses, she was said to be closest to Empress Yuan Leshang, as they entered the palace at the same time and were the same age, and they were also both favored by Emperor Xuan.\n\nEmperor Xuan died in summer 580, and Empress Yang's father Yang Jian became regent. Empress Chen became a Buddhist nun with the name of Huaguang, and she outlived Yang Jian's subsequent Sui Dynasty. According to both the \"Book of Zhou\" and \"History of Northern Dynasties\", she was still alive as of the reign of Emperor Taizong of Tang (626-649), but nothing further was recorded in either of those two official histories about her.\n"}
{"id": "561629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=561629", "title": "Dasam Granth", "text": "Dasam Granth\n\nThe Dasam Patishah Ji Da Granth (Gurmukhi: ਦਸਮ ਪਾਤਿਸ਼ਾਹ ਦਾ ਗ੍ਰੰਥ), commonly known as Dasam Granth (Gurmukhi: ਦਸਮ ਗ੍ਰੰਥ), is a religious text containing many of the texts traditionally attributed to Guru Gobind Singh. It is written primarily in Braj Bhasha, with Awadhi, Hindustani, Punjabi and Persian compositions written almost entirely in the Gurmukhi script except for the \"Fatehnama\", \"Zafar Nama\" and \"Hikayat\", which are in the Persian alphabet.\n\nThe \"Dasam Granth\" is a separate religious text from the Guru Granth Sahib.\n\nSome compositions of the \"Dasam Granth\" such as Jaap Sahib, Tav-Prasad Savaiye and Benti Chaupai are part of the Nitnem or daily prayers and also part of the Amrit Sanchar or baptism ceremony.\n\nAlthough the compositions of the \"Dasam Granth\" are widely accepted to be penned by Guru Gobind Singh there are some that still question the authenticity of the \"Dasam Granth\". There are three major views on the authorship of the \"Dasam Granth\":\n\nIn his religious court at Anandpur Sahib, Guru Gobind Singh had employed 52 poets, who translated several classical texts into Braj Bhasha. Most of the writing compiled at Anandpur Sahib was lost while the Guru's camp was crossing the Sirsa river before the Battle of Chamkaur (1704). There were copiers available at Guru's place who made several copies of writings. Later, Bhai Mani Singh compiled all the available works under the title \"Dasam Granth\".\n\nThe traditional scholars claim that all the works in \"Dasam Granth\" were composed by the Guru himself, on the basis of Bhai Mani Singh's letter. But the veracity of the letter has been examined by scholars and found to be unreliable. Any one even moderately acquainted with Hindi can tell from the internal evidence of style that Chandi Charitar and Bhagauti ki War are translations by different hands. Some others dispute the claim of the authorship, saying that some of the compositions included in \"Dasam Granth\" (such as \"Charitropakhyan\") are \"out of tune\" with other Sikh scriptures, and must have been composed by other poets. The names of poets Raam, Shyam and Kaal appear repeatedly in the granth. References to Kavi Shyam can be seen in Mahan Kosh of Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha, under the entry 'Bawanja Kavi' and also in Kavi Santokh Singh's magnum opus Suraj Prakash Granth.\n\nThe following are historical books after the demise of Guru Gobind Singh which mention that the compositions in the present \"Dasam Granth\" was written by Guru Gobind Singh:\n\nThe length of the printed version of \"Dasam Granth\" is 1428 pages.\n\nIt contains the Jaap Sahib, the Akal Ustat or praise of the Creator and the Bachittar Natak, which gives an account of the Guru's parentage, his divine mission and the battles in which he had been engaged.\n\nNext come three abridged compositions of the wars of Durga, called Chandi, with demons (Chandi Chritras: Chandi Chritra I, Chandi Chritra II, Chandi di Var).\n\nFollowing this is the Gyan Parbodh, or awakening of knowledge; the Shabad Hazare; quatrains called \"savaiye\" (singular \"savaiya\"), which are hymns in praise of God and reprobation of idolatry and hypocrisy; the Shastar Nam Mala, a list of offensive and defensive weapons used in the Guru's time with special reference to the attributes of the Creator; the Kabiovach Bainti Chaupai, which will \"absolve the suffering, pain or fear of the person, who will even once recite this Bani\"; the Zafarnamah, containing the Tenth Guru's epistle to the emperor Aurangzeb; and \"hikayat\"s, Persian language metrical tales.\n\nThese are the compositions included in \"Dasam Granth\":\nSome \"bir\"s (recensions) also include the following compositions:\n\nThe compositions within \"Dasam Granth\" play a huge role in Sikh liturgy, which is prescribed by Sikh Rehat Maryada:\n\nChandi di Var is important prayer among Nihang Sikhs.\n\nThe Guru by his time at Damdama Sahib, around 1705, assembled a large set of literature on \"bramvidiya\" and other topics much was formed by his 52 poets and some say that these 52 poets also contributed directly to the Dasam Granth.\n\nThe earliest surviving full manuscript of the \"Dasam Granth\" dates to 1713, although it appears not to have been publicly available. In 1721, Mata Sundari commissioned Bhai Mani Singh with compiling a volume of the \"Dasam Granth\". He completed his manuscript after collecting and sifting through material collected from a number of Sikhs. \"Minor textual variation\" exist between the early manuscripts.\n\nGiani Gian Singh claims that the full copy of the \"Dasam Granth\" was in possession of the Budha Dal, an 18th-century Sikh army, at the Battle of Kup and was lost during the Second Sikh Holocaust (1762) During the 1890s the text was standardized into its current two-volume 1,428 page print version.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55042919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55042919", "title": "Dera (organization)", "text": "Dera (organization)\n\nA dera is a type of socio-religious organization in northern India. Jacob Copeman defines the deras as \"monasteries or the extended residential sites of religious leaders; frequently just glossed as sect\".\n\nSeveral deras started out as non-orthodox Sikh sects, and many of them are now centres of distinct non-Sikh religious movements. Many Deras have attracted a large number of outcast Dalits, who earlier embraced Sikhism to escape the Hindu casteism, but felt socially excluded by the Jat Sikh-dominated clerical establishment.\n\nThe word Dera derives from the Persian word \"Derah\" or \"Dirah\", which literally means a camp, abode, monastery or convent.\n\nThe phenomenon of Dera, as sectarian institution, is not new in Punjab and it is much older than the Sikh faith and Panth. Deras in Punjab, before the Sikh faith, belonged to Sufi Pirs, Yogi Naths, and Sants of Bhakti movement. In Punjab, the popularity of Sufi Pirs/Sants or their Shrines can be seen through their veneration across the communities such as Hindu, Sikh and Muslim. Shrines of Sufis were known as khanqahs. The major function of khanqah was to provide relief to people of all communities, particularly the lower strata of different communities. Several khanqahs were built and facilities were provided to lower castes of Hindu populace in rural areas. Khanqahs with modest hospitality and generosity offered spiritual guidance, psychological support and counseling that was free and open to all people. By doing so, khanqahs challenged the establishment of stratified social structure either Hindu or Muslim societies. Soon, khanqahs became epicenters of socio-cultural and theological activities of people from all ethnic and religious backgrounds and genders. Sufi shrines of Sakhi Sarvar Sultan, Sheikh Farid, Bulhe Shah, Sheikh Fattha, Khwaja Khizr, and Five Pirs(Panj Pir) were the manifestation of the shared devoutness of Punjabis.\n\nEven during the lifetime of the Sikh Gurus, several deras had been established, many of them by the rival claimants to the \"Guru\" title. These deras included those of the Udasis, the Minas, the Dhirmalias, the Ramraiyas, the Handalis, and the Massandis. During the consolidation of the Sikh religion, several more deras cropped up. These included the deras of Bandei Khalsa (Bandapanthis), Nanakpanthis, Sewapanthis, Bhaktpanthi, Suthrashahi, Gulabdasi, Nirmalas and the Nihangs.\n\n19th century onwards, several more deras came into being. The distinguishing characteristic of these new deras was that they acted as centres of Dalit mobilization. The majority of the followers of these deras were people of Dalit background, who had embraced Sikhism to escape the casteist Hindu varna system. However, they continued to experience social exclusion in the caste hierarchy of the Sikh society, which pushed them towards the deras and other organizations that promise social equality. The increasing politicization of the Sikh institutions - the Akal Takht and the SGPC - and their domination by Jat Sikhs has driven a large number of people to the Deras as well. The affluent Dalits among the Punjabi diaspora have also contributed to the growth of the deras.\n\nAccording to a 2006-2007 study, there were more than 9,000 Sikh and non-Sikh deras in the rural areas of Punjab. A number of deras are also located in the neighbouring states of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.\n\nThe Sikh deras strictly observe the \"Rehat Maryada\" (Sikh code of conduct). The majority of their followers and leaders are from the Jat Sikh community. The leaders of these deras are rarely non-Jat, and never a Dalit. However, there are several Dalit sewadars, granthis, ragis, and kirtan performers in these deras.\n\nSome of the prominent Sikh deras include those of:\n\n\nThe non-Sikh deras do not abide by the Sikh \"Rehyat Maryada\". Along with the Sikh gurbani, they also recite non-Sikh texts, and some of them also indulge in idol worship. Unlike the Sikh deras, where the holy book \"Guru Granth Sahib\" is considered as the only current guru, the non-Sikh deras practice devotion towards a contemporary human guru.\n\nSome of the major non-Sikh deras include:\n\n\nThe majority of the followers of these deras are Dalits, Backward castes, and the poor among the Jat Sikhs. However, most of the deras are led by people from upper-caste backgrounds. As of 2007, the Nirankaris were led by a Khatri; the Dera Sacha Sauda was led by a Jat Sikh of Sidhu sub-caste; and the Radha Saomis were led by a Jat Sikh of the Dhillon sub-caste.\n\nThe Dalit-dominated deras have emerged as major centres of counter-culture, where the Dalits assert their pride, customs and tradition.\n\nThe deras are seen as a challenge to the mainstream Sikhism represented by the Khalsa Sikh identity. The total number of the followers of the various deras far exceeds the number of followers of the Golden Temple-based clerical establishment (the Akal Takht).\n\nThe tensions between the Dalits and the Jats have manifested in form of conflicts involving the Deras. Some of these incidents include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVarious political parties, including the Shiromani Akali Dal, and the Bharatiya Janata Party, and the Indian National Congress, have patronized the deras to attract the Dalit vote bank. During the election season, several political leaders and candidates visit the Deras, seeking support from the leaders of the various deras. This trend first became visible during the 1997 Punjab Legislative Assembly elections.\n\nThe Akali Dal has openly sought electoral support from the Sikh deras. The Sant Samaj deras have openly supported Akali Dal.\n\nAmong the non-Sikh deras, the Dera Sacha Sauda is influential in the Malwa region, and has a political wing. It has supported multiple political parties in various elections. The Dera Sach Khand asked its Dalit followers to vote for the Bahujan Samaj Party in 2012 Punjab elections, which was responsible for the dismal performance of the Congress in the Doaba region. The Bhaniarwala Dera has not openly supported any political party, but disfavours the Akali Dal candidates. The Dera Beas (Radha Soami) has not openly supported any particular party either, but in the past it used to tilt towards the Congress. In the 2012 Punjab elections, it favoured the Akali Dal, after daughter of a former Dera chief married an Akali Dal leader.\n\n"}
{"id": "8987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8987", "title": "Don McLean", "text": "Don McLean\n\nDonald McLean III (born October 2, 1945) is an American singer-songwriter. He is best known for his 1971 song \"American Pie\", which was a number-one US hit for four weeks in 1972 and stayed put at 2 for 3 weeks in the UK, as well as a hit for Madonna in 2000. McLean's other well-known songs include: \"And I Love You So\", sung by Elvis Presley, Perry Como, Helen Reddy, and Glen Campbell, among others; \"Vincent\", a tribute to the 19th-century Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh; \"Crying\", a cover of the Roy Orbison song and a surprise number 1 hit in the United Kingdom in 1980; and \"Castles in the Air\", which McLean recorded twice. In 2004, he was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.\n\nMcLean's grandfather and father, both also named Donald McLean, had roots originating in Scotland. The Buccis, the family of McLean's mother, Elizabeth, came from Abruzzo in central Italy. They left Italy and settled in Port Chester, New York, at the end of the 19th century. He has other extended family in Los Angeles and Boston.\n\nThough some of his early musical influences included Frank Sinatra and Buddy Holly, as a teenager, McLean became interested in folk music, particularly the Weavers' 1955 recording \"At Carnegie Hall\". He often missed long periods of school because of childhood asthma, particularly music lessons, and although McLean slipped back in his studies, his love of music was allowed to flourish. By age 16, he had bought his first guitar and began making contacts in the music business, becoming friends with the folk singers Erik Darling and Fred Hellerman of the Weavers. Hellerman said, \"He called me one day and said, 'I'd like to come and visit you', and that's what he did! We became good friends — he has the most remarkable music memory of anyone I've ever known.\"\n\nWhen McLean was 15, his father died. Fulfilling his father's request, the singer graduated from Iona Preparatory School in 1963, and briefly attended Villanova University, dropping out after four months. After leaving Villanova, McLean became associated with the famed folk music agent Harold Leventhal for several months before teaming up with his personal manager, Herb Gart, for 18 years. For the next six years he performed at venues and events including The Bitter End and the Gaslight Cafe in New York, the Newport Folk Festival, the Cellar Door in Washington, D.C., and the Troubadour in Los Angeles. He attended night school at Iona College and received a bachelor's degree in business administration in 1968.\n\nHe turned down a scholarship to Columbia University Graduate School in favor of pursuing a career as a singer-songwriter, performing at such venues as Caffè Lena in, Saratoga Springs, New York, and the Main Point, in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania.\n\nLater that year, with the help of a grant from the New York State Council on the Arts, McLean began reaching a wider audience, with visits to towns up and down the Hudson River. He learned the art of performing from his friend and mentor Pete Seeger. McLean accompanied Seeger on his Clearwater boat trip up the Hudson River in 1969 to raise awareness about environmental pollution in the river. During this time McLean wrote songs that would appear on his first album, \"Tapestry\". McLean co-edited the book \"Songs and Sketches of the First Clearwater Crew\", with sketches by Thomas B. Allen, for which Pete Seeger wrote the foreword. Seeger and McLean sang \"Shenandoah\" on the 1974 Clearwater album.\n\nMcLean recorded \"Tapestry\" in 1969 in Berkeley, California, during the student riots. After being rejected 72 times by labels, the album was released by Mediarts, a label that had not existed when he first started to look for a label. He worked on the album for a couple of years before putting it out. It attracted good reviews but little notice outside the folk community, though on the Easy Listening chart \"Castles in the Air\" was a success, and in 1973 \"And I Love You So\" became a number 1 Adult Contemporary hit for Perry Como.\n\nMcLean's major break came when Mediarts was taken over by United Artists Records, thus securing the promotion of a major label for his second album, \"American Pie.\" The album launched two number one hits in the title song and \"Vincent\". \"American Pie\"'s success made McLean an international star and piqued interest in his first album, which charted more than two years after its initial release.\n\nMcLean's magnum opus, \"American Pie\", is a sprawling, impressionistic ballad inspired partly by the deaths of Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens, and J.P. Richardson (The Big Bopper) in a plane crash in 1959, and developments in American youth culture in the subsequent decade. The song popularized the expression \"The Day the Music Died\" in reference to the crash.\n\nThe song was recorded on May 26, 1971, and a month later received its first radio airplay on New York's WNEW-FM and WPLJ-FM to mark the closing of Fillmore East, the famous New York concert hall. \"American Pie\" reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 from January 15 to February 5, 1972, and remains McLean's most successful single release. The single also topped the \"Billboard\" Easy Listening chart. With a total running time of 8:36 encompassing both sides of the single, it is also the longest song to reach number 1. Some stations played only part one of the original split-sided single release.\n\nWCFL DJ Bob Dearborn unraveled the lyrics and first published his interpretation on January 7, 1972, eight days before the song reached number 1 nationally (see \"Further reading\" under American Pie). Numerous other interpretations, which together largely converged on Dearborn's interpretation, quickly followed. McLean declined to say anything definitive about the lyrics until 1978. Since then McLean has stated that the lyrics are also somewhat autobiographical and present an abstract story of his life from the mid-1950s until the time he wrote the song in the late 1960s.\n\nIn 2001 \"American Pie\" was voted number 5 in a poll of the 365 Songs of the Century compiled by the Recording Industry Association of America and the National Endowment for the Arts.\n\nOn April 7, 2015, McLean’s original working manuscript for \"American Pie\" sold for $1,205,000 (£809,524/€1,109,182) at Christie’s auction rooms, New York, making it the third highest auction price achieved for an American literary manuscript.\n\nPersonnel from the \"American Pie\" album sessions were retained for his third album, \"Don McLean\", including the producer, Ed Freeman, Rob Rothstein on bass and Warren Bernhardt on piano. The song \"The Pride Parade\" provides an insight into McLean's immediate reaction to stardom. McLean told \"Melody Maker\" magazine in 1973 that \"Tapestry\" was an album by someone previously concerned with external situations. \"American Pie\" combines externals with internals and the resultant success of that album makes the third one (\"Don McLean\") entirely introspective.\"\n\nOther songs written by McLean for the album include \"Dreidel\" (number 21 on the Billboard chart) and \"If We Try\" (number 58), which was subsequently recorded by Olivia Newton-John. \"On the Amazon\" from the 1920s musical Mr Cinders was an unusual choice but became an audience favorite in concerts and featured in \"Till Tomorrow\", a documentary film about McLean produced by Bob Elfstrom (Elfstrom held the role of Jesus Christ in Johnny and June Cash's \"Gospel Road)\". The film shows McLean in concert at Columbia University as he was interrupted by a bomb scare. He left the stage while the audience stood up and checked under their seats for anything that resembled a bomb. After the all-clear, McLean re-appeared and sang \"On the Amazon\" from exactly where he had left off. Don Heckman reported the bomb scare in his review for \"The New York Times\" entitled \"Don McLean Survives Two Obstacles.\"\n\nThe fourth album, \"Playin' Favorites\" was a top-40 hit in the UK in 1973 and included the Irish folk classic, \"Mountains of Mourne\" and Buddy Holly's \"Everyday\", a live rendition of which returned McLean to the UK Singles Chart. McLean said, \"The last album (\"Don McLean\") was a study in depression whereas the new one (\"Playin' Favorites\") is almost the quintessence of optimism.\"\n\nThe 1974 album \"Homeless Brother\", produced by Joel Dorn, was McLean's final studio recording for United Artists. The album featured fine New York session musicians, including Ralph McDonald on percussion, Hugh McCracken on guitar and a guest appearance by Yusef Lateef on flute. The Persuasions sang the background vocals on \"Crying in the Chapel\", and Cissy Houston provided a backing vocal on \"La La Love You\". The album's title song was inspired by Jack Kerouac's book \"Lonesome Traveler\", in which Kerouac tells the story of America's \"homeless brothers\", or hobos. The song features background vocals by Pete Seeger.\n\nThe song \"The Legend of Andrew McCrew\" was based on an article published in \"The New York Times\" concerning a black Dallas hobo named Anderson McCrew who was killed when he leapt from a moving train. No one claimed him, so a carnival took his body, mummified it, and toured all over the South with him, calling him \"The Famous Mummy Man.\" McLean's song inspired radio station WGN in Chicago to tell the story and give the song airplay in order to raise money for a headstone for McCrew's grave. Their campaign was successful, and McCrew's body was exhumed and buried in the Lincoln Cemetery in Dallas. The tombstone had an inscription with words from the fourth verse of McLean's song:\n\nWhat a way to live a life, and what a way to die\nLeft to live a living death with no one left to cry\nA petrified amazement, a wonder beyond worth\nA man who found more life in death than life gave him at birth\n\nJoel Dorn later collaborated on the McLean career retrospective \"\", released in 2005 on Dorn's label, Hyena Records. In 2006, Dorn reflected on working with McLean:Of the more than 200 studio albums I've produced in the past forty plus years, there is a handful; maybe fifteen or so that I can actually listen to from top to bottom. \"Homeless Brother\" is one of them. It accomplished everything I set out to do. And it did so because it was a true collaboration. Don brought so much to the project that all I really had to do was capture what he did, and complement it properly when necessary.\n\nIn 1977 a brief liaison with Arista Records that yielded the album \"Prime Time\" and, in October 1978, the single \"It Doesn't Matter Anymore\". This was a track from the album \"Chain Lightning\" that should have been the second of four with Arista. McLean had started recording in Nashville, with Elvis Presley's backing singers, the Jordanaires, and many of Presey's musicians. However the Arista deal broke down following artistic disagreements between McLean and the Arista chief, Clive Davis. Consequently, McLean was left without a record contract in the United States, but through continuing deals, \"Chain Lightning\" was released by EMI in Europe and by Festival Records in Australia.\n\nIn April 1980, the Roy Orbison song \"Crying\" from the album began picking up airplay on Dutch radio stations and McLean was called to Europe to appear on several important musical variety shows to plug the song and support its release as a single by EMI. The song achieved number 1 status in the Netherlands first, followed by the UK and then Australia.\n\nMcLean's number 1 successes in Europe and Australia led to a new deal in the United States with Millennium Records, which issued \"Chain Lightning\" two and a half years after it had been recorded in Nashville and two years after its release in Europe. It charted on February 14, 1981, and reached number 28, while \"Crying\" climbed to number 5 on the pop singles chart. Orbison himself thought that McLean’s version was the best interpretation he’d ever heard of one of his songs. Orbison thought McLean did a better job than he did and even went so far as to say that the voice of Don McLean is one of the great instruments of 20th-century America. According to Brian Wilson of the Beach Boys, \"McLean's voice could cut through steel - he is a very pure singer and he's up there with the best of them. He's a very talented singer and songwriter and he deserves his success.\"\n\nMcLean had further chart successes in the United States in the early 1980s with \"Since I Don't Have You\", a new recording of \"Castles in the Air\" and \"It's Just the Sun\". In 1987, the release of the country-based album\"Love Tracks\" gave rise to the hit singles \"Love in My Heart\" (a top-10 in Australia), \"You Can't Blame the Train\" (U.S. country number 49), and \"Eventually\". The latter two songs were written by Houston native Terri Sharp. In 1991, EMI reissued \"American Pie\" as a single in the United Kingdom, and McLean performed on \"Top of the Pops\". In 1992, previously unreleased songs became available on \"Favorites and Rarities\", while \"Don McLean Classics\" featured new studio recordings of \"Vincent\" and \"American Pie\".\n\nMcLean has continued to record new material, including \"River of Love\" in 1995 on Curb Records and, more recently, the albums \"You've Got to Share\", \"Don McLean Sings Marty Robbins\" and \"The Western Album\" for his own Don McLean Music label. \"Addicted to Black\" was released in May 2009.\n\nMcLean's other well-known songs include the following.\n\nThe \"American Pie\" album features a version of Psalm 137, entitled \"Babylon\". The song is based on a canon by Philip Hayes and was arranged by McLean and Lee Hays (of The Weavers). \"Babylon\" was performed in the \"Mad Men\" episode of the same name despite the fact that the song would not be released until 10 years after the time in which the episode is set.\n\nIn 1981, McLean had an international number one hit with a version of the Roy Orbison classic \"Crying\". It was only after the record became a success overseas that it was released in the United States. The single hit reached number 5 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in 1981. Orbison himself once described McLean as \"the voice of the century\", and in a subsequent re-recording of the song, Orbison incorporated elements of McLean's version.\n\nFor the 1982 animated cult movie \"The Flight of Dragons\", produced by Jules Bass and Arthur Rankin, Jr., McLean sang the opening theme. However, no soundtrack has ever been released. Another hit song associated with McLean (though never recorded by him) is \"Killing Me Softly with His Song\", which was claimed by Lori Lieberman to have been written McLean after she, also a singer-songwriter, saw him singing his composition \"Empty Chairs\" in concert. Afterwards (according to Lieberman) she wrote a poem about the experience and shared it with Norman Gimbel, who had long been searching for a way to use a phrase he had copied from a novel badly translated from Spanish to English, \"killing me softly with his blues\". Allegedly, Gimbel and Charles Fox reworked the poem and the phrase into the song \"Killing Me Softly with His Song\", originally recorded by Lieberman and later by Roberta Flack (and also later recorded by the Fugees). This claim was disputed, notably by Fox. Subsequently, however, the matter reached an unequivocal conclusion when contemporaneous articles from the early 1970s were exhumed, all of them vindicating Lieberman.\n\nIn an April 5, 1973, article in the \"New York Daily News\", Norman Gimbel was quoted as follows: \"She [Lori Lieberman] told us about this strong experience she had listening to McLean (\"I felt all flushed with fever / Embarrassed by the crowd / I felt he had found my letters / And read each one out loud / I prayed that he would finish / But he just kept right on…\"). I had a notion this might make a good song so the three of us discussed it. We talked it over several times, just as we did for the rest of the numbers we wrote for this album and we all felt it had possibilities.\"\n\nMcLean's albums did not match the commercial success of \"American Pie\", but he became a major concert attraction in the United States and overseas. His repertoire included old concert hall numbers and the catalogues of singers such as Buddy Holly, and another McLean influence, Frank Sinatra. The years spent playing gigs in small clubs and coffee houses in the 1960s transformed into well-paced performances. McLean's first concerts at Carnegie Hall, in New York, and the Albert Hall in London, in 1972 were critically acclaimed.\n\nIn recent years McLean has continued to tour the United States, Canada and Europe (2011, 2012) and Australia (2013). In June 2011 McLean appeared at the Glastonbury Festival in Pilton, UK, and in 2014 at California's Stagecoach Country Music Festival.\n\nIn May 2015, McLean undertook his 20th nationwide tour of the UK and Ireland. \nIn 1991, McLean returned to the UK top 20 with a re-issue of \"American Pie\".\n\nIona College conferred an honorary doctorate on him in 2001.\n\nIn February 2002, \"American Pie\" was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame. In 2004, McLean was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame. Garth Brooks presented the award and said, \"Don McLean: his work, like the man himself, is very deep and very compassionate. His pop anthem 'American Pie' is a cultural phenomenon\".\n\nTwo years later, Brooks repaid the favor by appearing as a guest (with Nanci Griffith) on McLean's first American TV special, broadcast as the PBS program \"Starry Starry Night\". A month later, McLean wound up the 20th century by performing \"American Pie\" at the Lincoln Memorial Gala in Washington D.C.\n\nThe biography \"The Don McLean Story: Killing Us Softly With His Songs\" was published in 2007. Biographer Alan Howard conducted extensive interviews for this, the only book-length biography of the often reclusive McLean to date.\n\nIn February 2012 McLean won the BBC Radio 2 Folk Awards Life Time Achievement award.\n\nIn March 2012, the PBS network broadcast a feature-length documentary about the life and music of McLean called \"Don McLean: American Troubadour\" produced by four-time Emmy Award-winning filmmaker Jim Brown.\n\nMcLean is one of the primary influences on the UK singer-songwriter Jake Bugg, who said McLean's song \"Vincent\" was \"the first song I liked\" after hearing it on an episode of The Simpsons. He devoured McLean's back catalogue and then delved into the artists that inspired McLean, including Buddy Holly and the Weavers. Tupac Shakur also cited McLean's \"Vincent\" as a personal inspiration.\n\nMcLean is credited as the writer of Drake's song \"Doing It Wrong\", featuring Stevie Wonder. The song includes lyrics from two McLean compositions – \"The Wrong Thing to Do\" and \"When a Good Thing Goes Bad\" – both of which were featured on his 1977 album \"Prime Time\".\n\nIn March 2017, McLean's single \"American Pie\" was designated an \"aural treasure\" by the Library of Congress, \"worthy of preservation\" in the National Recording Registry \"as part of America’s patrimony\".\n\nMcLean was raised in the Roman Catholic faith of his mother, Elizabeth McLean; his father, Donald McLean, was a Protestant. When McLean was 15, his father died months after their only vacation, to Washington D.C.\n\nMcLean's first marriage was to Carol Sauvion, which lasted from 1969 to 1972.\n\nHe was married to Patrisha McLean (née Shnier) from 1987 until their divorce in June 2016. They lived in Camden, Maine, with their two children, Jackie and Wyatt. On January 18, 2016, McLean was arrested in Camden for a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. On July 21, 2016, he pleaded guilty to charges of misdemeanour domestic violence assault, domestic violence criminal threatening, criminal mischief and criminal restraint against Patrisha McLean. The charges against McLean were dismissed on July 21, 2017, after he met the terms of a plea agreement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6457043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6457043", "title": "Five Strengths", "text": "Five Strengths\n\nThe Five Strengths (Sanskrit, Pali: \"\") in Buddhism are faith, energy, mindfulness, concentration, and wisdom. They are one of the seven sets of \"qualities conducive to enlightenment.\" They are parallel facets of the five \"spiritual faculties.\"\n\n\"Pañca\" (Sanskrit, Pali) means \"five.\" \"Bala\" (Sanskrit, Pali) means \"power,\" \"strength,\" \"force.\"\n\nFaith and Wisdom balance each other, as do Energy and Concentration.\nThe Five Faculties are ‘controlling' faculties because they control or master their opposites.\nThe faculties and powers are two aspects of the same thing.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48426805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48426805", "title": "Frank Andre", "text": "Frank Andre\n\nFrancis Xavier \"Frank\" Macek Andre (July 20, 1888 – January 16, 1959) was a purported faith healer, known as \"The goat doctor of the Sierras.\"\n\nBorn in Vienna, Austria, Andre was orphaned at the age of six when his parents died in Czechoslovakia. He came to California as a young man in 1911 after his adoption by Ernest Frank Andre (1865-1961) and Anna Elizabeth Raker Andre (1865-1948).\n\nHe opened his controversial medical practice in 1921, conducting sessions barefoot because, in his words, \"you contact the soil directly and get health giving powers from the good earth\" and with hair reaching to his shoulders because \"if you cut it, it diminishes the power.\"\n\n\"I don't claim to cure anyone,\" Andre said, \"I tell those who need medical treatment to see a doctor. My treatment is mostly a form of chiropractic adjust.\" His fee was the same to all — a flat $3.\n\nHis nickname, \"Goat Doctor\", came from his herd of goats, kept near his mountain cabin about eight miles north of Placerville, near the area later called Swansboro. After he died, much of the proceeds of his practice were found, buried, on Andre's land by famed treasure seeker James A. Normandi (a.k.a. Jimmy Sierra). Coins from the \"Goat Doctor Cache\" command a premium with history collectors.\n"}
{"id": "4267006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4267006", "title": "Hilma af Klint", "text": "Hilma af Klint\n\nHilma af Klint (October 26, 1862 – October 21, 1944) was a Swedish artist and mystic whose paintings were amongst the first abstract art. A considerable body of her abstract work predates the first purely abstract compositions by Kandinsky. She belonged to a group called \"The Five\", a circle of women who shared her belief in the importance of trying to make contact with the so-called \"High Masters\" – often by way of séances. Her paintings, which sometimes resemble diagrams, were a visual representation of complex spiritual ideas.\n\nThe fourth child of Captain Victor af Klint, a Swedish naval commander, and Mathilda af Klint (née Sonntag), Hilma af Klint spent summers with her family at their manor Hanmora on the island of Adelsö in Lake Mälaren. In these idyllic surroundings Hilma came into contact with nature at an early stage in her life; and this deep association with natural forms was to be an inspiration in her work. Later in life, Hilma af Klint came to live on a permanent basis at Munsö, an island next to Adelsö.\n\nFrom her family, Hilma af Klint inherited a great interest for mathematics and botany. She showed an early ability in visual art, and after the family moved to Stockholm, she studied at the Academy of Fine Arts of Stockholm (Konstakademien), where she learned portraiture and landscape painting.\nShe was admitted at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts at the age of twenty. During the years 1882–1887 she studied mainly drawing, and portrait- and landscape painting. She graduated with honors, and was allocated a scholarship in the form of a studio in the so-called \"Atelier Building\" (Ateljébyggnaden), owned by The Academy of Fine Arts in the crossing between Hamngatan and Kungsträdgården in central Stockholm. This was the main cultural hub in the Swedish capital at that time. The same building also held Blanch's Café and Blanchs Art Gallery, where the conflict stood between the conventional art view of the Academy of Fine Arts, and the opposition movement of the \"Art Society\" (Konstnärsförbundet), inspired by the French En Plein Air painters.\nHilma af Klint began working in Stockholm, gaining recognition for her landscapes, botanical drawings, and portraits.\n\nHer conventional painting became the source of financial income. But her 'life's work' remained a quite separate practice.\n\nIn 1880 her younger sister Hermina died, and it was at this time that the spiritual dimension of her life began to develop.\n\nHer interest in abstraction and symbolism came from Hilma af Klint's involvement in spiritism, very much in vogue at the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th century. Hilma af Klint became interested in the Theosophy of Madame Blavatsky and the philosophy of Christian Rosencreutz. In 1908 she met Rudolf Steiner, the founder of the Anthroposophical Society, who was on a visit to Stockholm. Rudolf Steiner initiated her in his own theories regarding the Arts, and would have a certain influence on her paintings later in life. Several years later, in 1920, she met him again at the Goetheanum in Dornach, Switzerland, the headquarters of the Anthroposophical Society. Between 1921 and 1930 she spent long periods at the Goetheanum.\n\nAf Klint's work can be understood in the wider context of the Modernist search for new forms in artistic, spiritual, political and scientific systems at the beginning of the 20th century. \nOne will find the same interest in spirituality in other artists during this same period, such as Wassily Kandinsky, Piet Mondrian, Kasimir Malevitch and the French Nabis of which many were, like af Klint, inspired by the Theosophical Movement. \nHowever, the artistic transition to abstract art and the non figurative painting of Hilma af Klint would occur without any contacts with the contemporary modern movements.\n\nThe works of Hilma af Klint are mainly spiritual, and her artistic work is a consequence of this.\n\nAt the Academy of Fine Arts she met Anna Cassel, the first of the four women with whom she later worked in \"The Five\" (\"de Fem\"), a group of artists who shared her ideas. The group of female artists \"The Five\" was engaged in the paranormal and regularly organized spiritistic séances. They recorded in a book a completely new system of mystical thoughts in the form of messages from higher spirits, called \"The High Masters\" (\"Höga Mästare\"). One, Gregor, spoke thus: \"all the knowledge that is not of the senses, not of the intellect, not of the heart but is the property that exclusively belongs to the deepest aspect of your being...the knowledge of your spirit\".\n\nThrough her work with the group \"The Five\" Hilma af Klint created experimental automatic drawing as early as 1896, leading her towards an inventive geometric visual language capable of conceptualizing invisible forces both of the inner and outer worlds.\nAs she got more familiar with this form of expression, Hilma af Klint was assigned by the High Masters to create the paintings for the \"Temple\" – however she never understood what this \"Temple\" referred to.\nHilma af Klint felt she was being directed by a force that would literally guide her hand. She wrote in her notebook :\n\n“The pictures were painted directly through me, without any preliminary drawings, and with great force. I had no idea what the paintings were supposed to depict; nevertheless I worked swiftly and surely, without changing a single brush stroke.”\n\nIn 1906, after 20 years of artistic works, and at the age of 44, Hilma af Klint painted her first series of abstract paintings.\n\nThe work for the Temple ran between 1906 and 1915, carried out in two phases with an interruption between 1908 and 1912. \nAs Hilma af Klint discovered her new form of visual expression, she developed a new artistic language. Her painting became more autonomous and more intentional. The spiritual would however continue being the main source of creativity throughout the rest of her life.\n\nThe collection for the Temple counts in total 193 paintings, grouped in several sub-series. The major paintings, dated 1907, are extremely large in size : each painting measures approximately 2,40 x 3,20m. This series, called \"The Ten Largest\", describes the different phases in life, from early childhood to old age.\n\nQuite apart from their diagrammatic purpose the paintings have a freshness and a modern aesthetic of tentative line and hastily captured image: a segmented circle, a helix bisected and divided into a spectrum of lightly painted colors.\nThe artistic world of Hilma af Klint is impregnated with symbols, letters and words. The paintings often depicts symmetrical dualities, or reciprocities : up and down, in and out, earthly and esoteric, male and female, good and evil. The colour choice is throughout metaphorical: blue stands for the female spirit, yellow for the male one, and pink / red for physical / spiritual love. \"The Swan\" and \"the Dove\", names of two series of the \"Paintings for the Temple\", are also symbolic, representing respectively transcendence and love. As gates to other dimensions, her paintings call for interpretation on a narrative, esoterically and artistic level.\n\nWhen Hilma af Klint had completed the works for the Temple, the spiritual guidance ended. However, she pursued abstract painting, now independently from any external influence. If the paintings for the Temple were mostly oil paintings, she now also used aquarelle. Her later paintings are significantly smaller in size. She painted among others a series depicting the stand-points of different religions at various stages in history, as well as representations of the duality between the physical being and its equivalence on an esoteric level. As Hilma af Klint pursued her artistic and esoteric research, it is possible to perceive a certain inspiration from the artistic theories developed by the Anthroposophical Society from 1920 onward.\n\nAll through her life, Hilma af Klint would seek to understand the mysteries that she had come in contact with through her work. She left behind more than 150 notebooks with her thoughts and studies.\n\nHilma af Klint never dared to show her abstract work to her contemporaries. Her major work, the one dedicated to the Temple, had been questioned and rejected by Rudolf Steiner. Hilma af Klint drew the conclusion that her time was not yet ready to understand them. More than 1200 paintings and drawings were carefully stored away in her atelier, waiting for the future.\n\nHilma af Klint died in 1944, nearly 82 years old, in the aftermath of a traffic accident.\n\nIn her will, Hilma af Klint left all her abstract paintings to her nephew, vice-admiral in the Swedish Royal Navy. She specified that her work should be kept secret for at least 20 years after her death. When the boxes were opened at the end of the 1960s, very few persons had knowledge of what would be revealed.\n\nIn 1970 her paintings were offered as a gift to Moderna Museet in Stockholm, which declined the donation. Thanks to the art historian Åke Fant, her art was introduced to an international audience in the 1980s, when he presented her at a Nordik conference in Helsinki in 1984. Erik af Klint then donated thousands of drawings and paintings to a foundation bearing the artist's name in the 1970s.\n\nThe collection of abstract paintings of Hilma af Klint counts more than 1200 pieces. It is owned and managed by the Hilma af Klint Foundation in Stockholm, Sweden. In 2017, Norwegian architectural firm Snøhetta presented plans for an exhibition centre dedicated to af Klint in Järna, south of Stockholm, with estimated building costs of between €6 million and €7.5 million. In February 2018, the Foundation signed a long-term agreement of cooperation with the Moderna Museet, thereby confirming the perenity of the Hilma af Klint Room, i.e. a dedicated space at the museum where a dozen works of the artist are shown on a continuous basis.\n\n\nThe abstract work of Hilma af Klint was shown for the first time at the exhibition \"The Spiritual in Art, Abstract Painting 1890–1985\" organized by Maurice Tuchman in Los Angeles in 1986. This exhibition was the starting point of her international recognition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1648359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1648359", "title": "Hinduism in Mauritius", "text": "Hinduism in Mauritius\n\nHinduism in Mauritius began when Indians from diverse religious groups were brought as indentured labor to colonial French and later in much larger numbers to British plantations in Mauritius and neighboring islands of the Indian Ocean. The migrants came primarily from what are now the Indian states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Maharastra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.\n\nHinduism is the largest religion in Mauritius, with over 670,000 adherents, representing approximately 48.5% of the total 1.3 million population of the country according to the 2011 census made by Statistics Mauritius. This makes the Mauritius islands in the Indian Ocean as the country having highest percentage of Hindus in Africa and third highest percentage of Hindus in the world after Nepal and India.\n\nThe European colonial powers banned slave capture and trading in the first half of the 19th century, with the British Empire banning it in the early decades. However, the demand kept rising for low cost, high intensity labor in colonial plantations of sugarcane, cotton, tobacco and other cash crops. The British Empire substituted the slave labor supplies from Africa with indentured labor supplies from India.\n\nThe indentured people brought from India included primarily Hindus, but also included Muslims and Christians. They were subject to indenture, a long-established form of contract which bound them to forced labour for a fixed term; apart from the fixed term of servitude, this resembled slavery. The first ships carrying indentured labourers from India left in 1836. Sugarcane, a crop that is native to India, does not grow in the cold latitudes such as those found in Europe, but grows in tropical latitudes, were grown in large colonial tropical plantations to meet the growing European and American demand. It is these sugarcane and other tropical cash crop plantations that brought the indentured Hindus and other migrants from India to Mauritius, and other island countries such as Fiji, Jamaica, Trinidad, Martinique, Suriname and others.\n\nThe Hindus, and non-Hindus, who accepted indentured labor contracts and were brought to Mauritius, faced difficult conditions in India. Poverty in colonial India, starvation, epidemics and severe periodic famines in British Raj were rampant during the colonial rule. Millions of Indians died from mass starvation during the 19th-century British India. The extreme circumstances broke families, villages and triggered migrations. By 1839, Mauritius already had 25,000 Indians working in slave-like conditions in its colonial plantations, but these were predominantly males since colonial labor laws prevented women and children from accompanying the males. In the 1840s a severe shortage of cheap labor in British plantation colonies led to systematic shipment of large number of indentured laborers to Mauritius, both men and women, particularly from the ports of Calcutta, Bombay and Madras. According to Michael Mann – a professor of Sociology, the Hindus and non-Hindus of India who arrived in Mauritius were a small percentage of the over 30 million indentured Indian workers shipped around the colonial world between the 18th and early 20th century (many of whom returned after serving for years as plantation labor).\n\nBy the time Mauritius gained independence from the British Empire, a majority of its population were from Indian heritage. According to Patrick Eisenlohr, about 70% of Mauritius' total population is of Indian origin. Those who identify themselves as Hindus constitute about 48% of the total population, or about 69% of those of Indian origin.\n\nThe major languages spoken by Hindus in Mauritius, at home and in commerce, are Creole, Bhojpuri, Tamil and Hindi. The politically active Hindus, states Eisenholr, have attempted to preserve Hindi by calling it their \"mother tongue\" and \"ancestral language\", as well as an assurance against the colonial discrimination they faced, but most Hindus mainly use Creole in their daily lives – a syncretic language of Indians and Africans that has developed on the island.\n\nThe island nation carries many Bhojpuri-language television programs on Mauritius Broadcasting Corporation, the channel controlled by the Mauritius government. Hindus in Mauritius that widely use Bhojpuri include the rural south and north-central region near . These settlements are of Hindus primarily from Gangetic plains regions of Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, and their language is a modified form – a koiné in linguistic studies – of the original Bhojpuri.\n\nAs per the 2011 Census, Hindus constituted for 48.54% of the total population of Mauritius. Excluding the island of Rodrigues, Hindus were 50.15% of the population (36.79% in Urban areas, and 59.72% in the rural areas). In the island of Rodrigues, Hindus are 0.84% of the population.\n\nAccording to Oddvar Hollup and other scholars, Hindus that settled in Mauritius did not observe caste system and intercaste restrictions have been unimportant in Mauritius. Most scholars, states Hollup, observe that this may be because \"the economic and political conditions in the host societies where indentured Indian laborers were introduced had conditions that were not conducive to the maintenance of caste\", and that caste was not a principle of social organization as all Indian laborers (coolies) were \"doing the same kind of work and sharing the same living conditions\".\n\nOne of the biggest Hindu festivals on the island is Maha Shivaratri (\"Great Night of Shiva\"). During this annual Hindu celebration, which takes place in the months of February and March, four to nine days of ceremony and fasting lead up to an all-night vigil of Shiva worship.\n\nOther important Hindu festivals in Mauritius include:\n\n\nThe International Society for Krishna Consciousness maintains several temples in Mauritius.\n\n"}
{"id": "956960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=956960", "title": "History of Buddhism", "text": "History of Buddhism\n\nThe history of Buddhism spans from the 5th century BCE to the present. Buddhism arose in the eastern part of Ancient India, in and around the ancient Kingdom of Magadha (now in Bihar, India), and is based on the teachings of Siddhārtha Gautama. This makes it one of the oldest religions practiced today. The religion evolved as it spread from the northeastern region of the Indian subcontinent through Central, East, and Southeast Asia. At one time or another, it influenced most of the Asian continent. The history of Buddhism is also characterized by the development of numerous movements, schisms, and schools, among them the Theravāda, Mahāyāna and Vajrayāna traditions, with contrasting periods of expansion and retreat.\n\nSiddhārtha Gautama was the historical founder of Buddhism. The early sources state he was born in the small Shakya (Pali: Sakka) Republic, which was part of the Kosala realm of ancient India, now in modern-day Nepal. He is thus also known as the \"Shakyamuni\" (literally: \"The sage of the Shakya clan\"). The republic was ruled by a council of household heads, and Gautama was born to one of these elites, so that he described himself as a Kshatriya when talking to Brahmins. The Early Buddhist Texts contain no continuous life of the Buddha, only later after 200 BCE were various \"biographies\" with much mythological embellishment written. All texts agree however that Gautama renounced the householder life and lived as a sramana ascetic for some time studying under various teachers, before attaining nirvana (extinguishment) and bodhi (awakening) through meditation. \n\nFor the remaining 45 years of his life, he traveled the Gangetic Plain of central India (the region of the Ganges/Ganga river and its tributaries), teaching his doctrine to a diverse range of people from different castes and initiating monks into his order. The Buddha sent his disciples to spread the teaching across India. He also initiated an order of nuns. He urged his disciples to teach in the local language or dialects. He spent a lot of his time near the cities of Sāvatthī, Rājagaha and Vesālī (Skt. Śrāvastī, Rājagrha, Vāiśalī). By the time of his death at 80, he had thousands of followers.\n\nThe years following the death of the Buddha saw the emergence of many movements during the next 400 years: first the schools of Nikaya Buddhism, of which only Theravada remains today, and then the formation of Mahayana and Vajrayana, pan-Buddhist sects based on the acceptance of new scriptures and the revision of older techniques.\n\nFollowers of Buddhism, called Buddhists in English, referred to themselves as \"Sakyan\"-s or \"Sakyabhiksu\" in ancient India. Buddhist scholar Donald S. Lopez asserts they also used the term \"Bauddha\", although scholar Richard Cohen asserts that that term was used only by outsiders to describe Buddhists.\n\nAfter the death of the Buddha, the Buddhist sangha (monastic community) remained centered on the Ganges valley, spreading gradually from its ancient heartland. The canonical sources record various councils, where the monastic Sangha recited and organized the orally transmitted collections of the Buddha's teachings and settled certain disciplinary problems within the community. Modern scholarship has questioned the accuracy and historicity of these traditional accounts. \n\nThe first Buddhist council is traditionally said to have been held just after Buddha's Parinirvana, and presided over by Mahākāśyapa, one of His most senior disciples, at Rājagṛha (today's Rajgir) with the support of king Ajāthaśatru. According to Charles Prebish, almost all scholars have questioned the historicity of this first council.\n\nThe second Buddhist council is said to have caused the first schism of the sangha into the Sthavira (Elders) and Mahasamghika (Great Sangha). Most scholars agree that the schism was caused by disagreements over points of vinaya (monastic discipline). Over time, these two monastic fraternities would further divide into various Early Buddhist Schools. The Sthaviras gave birth to a large number of influential schools including the Sarvāstivāda, the Pudgalavāda (also known as \"Vatsīputrīya\"), the Dharmaguptakas and the Vibhajyavāda (Theravādins being descended from these). The Mahasamghikas meanwhile also developed their own schools and doctrines early on, which can seen in texts like the Mahavastu, associated with the Lokottaravāda, or ‘Transcendentalist’ school, who might be the same as the Ekavyāvahārikas or \"One-utterancers\". This school has been seen as foreshadowing certain Mahayana ideas, especially due to their view that all of Gautama Buddha's acts were \"transcendental\" or \"supramundane\", even those performed before his Buddhahood.\n\nIn the third century BCE, some Buddhists began introducing new systematized teachings called Abhidharma, based on previous lists or tables (\"Matrka\") of main doctrinal topics. Unlike the Nikayas, which were prose sutras or discourses, the Abhidharma literature consisted of systematic doctrinal exposition and often differed across the Buddhist schools who disagreed on points of doctrine. Abhidharma sought to analyze all experience into its ultimate constituents, phenomenal events or processes called \"dharmas\".\n\nDuring the reign of the Mauryan Emperor Aśoka (273–232 BCE), Buddhism gained royal support and began to spread more widely reaching most of the Indian subcontinent. After his invasion of Kalinga, Aśoka seems to have experienced remorse and began working to improve the lives of his subjects. Aśoka also built wells, rest-houses and hospitals for humans and animals, he also abolished torture, royal hunting trips and perhaps even the death penalty. Aśoka also supported non-Buddhist faiths like Jainism and Brahmanism. Aśoka propagated religion by building stupas and pillars urging, among other things, respect of all animal life and enjoining people to follow the Dharma. He has been hailed by Buddhist sources as the model for the compassionate chakravartin (wheel turning monarch). \n\nAnother feature of Mauryan Buddhism was the worship and veneration of stupas, large mounds which contained relics (Pali: sarīra) of the Buddha or other saints within. It was believed that the practice of devotion to these relics and stupas could bring blessings. Perhaps the best preserved example of a Mauryan Buddhist site is the Great Stupa of Sanchi (dating from the 3rd century BCE). \n\nAccording to the plates and pillars left by Aśoka (the edicts of Aśoka), emissaries were sent to various countries in order to spread Buddhism, as far south as Sri Lanka and as far west as the Greek kingdoms, in particular the neighboring Greco-Bactrian Kingdom, and possibly even farther to the Mediterranean.\n\nTheravadin sources state that Aśoka convened the third Buddhist council around 250 BC at Pataliputra (today's Patna) with the elder Moggaliputtatissa. The objective of the council was to purify the Saṅgha, particularly from non-Buddhist ascetics who had been attracted by the royal patronage. Following the council, Buddhist missionaries were dispatched throughout the known world.\n\nSome of the edicts of Aśoka describe the efforts made by him to propagate the Buddhist faith throughout the Hellenistic world, which at that time formed an uninterrupted continuum from the borders of India to Greece. The edicts indicate a clear understanding of the political organization in Hellenistic territories: the names and locations of the main Greek monarchs of the time are identified, and they are claimed as recipients of Buddhist proselytism: Antiochus II Theos of the Seleucid Kingdom (261–246 BCE), Ptolemy II Philadelphos of Egypt (285–247 BCE), Antigonus Gonatas of Macedonia (276–239 BCE), Magas (288–258 BCE) in Cyrenaica (modern Libya), and Alexander II (272–255 BCE) in Epirus (modern Northwestern Greece). One of the edicts states:\n\nFurthermore, according to the Mahavamsa (XII) some of Aśoka's emissaries were Greek (Yona), particularly one named Dhammarakkhita. Aśoka also issued edicts in the Greek language as well as in Aramaic. One of them, found in Kandahar, advocates the adoption of \"piety\" (using the Greek term \"eusebeia\" for Dharma) to the Greek community.\n\nIt is not clear how much these interactions may have been influential, but authors like Robert Linssen have commented that Buddhism may have influenced Western thought and religion at that time. Linssen points to the presence of Buddhist communities in the Hellenistic world around that period, in particular in Alexandria (mentioned by Clement of Alexandria), and to the pre-Christian monastic order of the Therapeutae (possibly a deformation of the Pāli word \"Theravāda\"), who may have \"almost entirely drawn (its) inspiration from the teaching and practices of Buddhist asceticism\" and may even have been descendants of Aśoka's emissaries to the West. Philosophers like Hegesias of Cyrene and Pyrrho are sometimes thought to have been influenced by Buddhist teachings.\n\nBuddhist gravestones from the Ptolemaic period have also been found in Alexandria, decorated with depictions of the Dharma wheel. The presence of Buddhists in Alexandria has even drawn the conclusion that they influenced monastic Christianity. In the 2nd century CE, the Christian dogmatist, Clement of Alexandria recognized Bactrian \"śramanas\" and Indian \"gymnosophists\" for their influence on Greek thought.\n\nSri Lankan chronicles like the \"Dipavamsa\" state that Aśoka's son Mahinda brought Buddhism to the island during the 2nd century BCE. In addition, Aśoka's daughter, Saṅghamitta also established the bhikkhunī (order for nuns) in Sri Lanka, also bringing with her a sapling of the sacred bodhi tree that was subsequently planted in Anuradhapura. These two figures are seen as the mythical founders of the Sri Lankan Theravada. They are said to have converted the King Devanampiya Tissa (307 - 267 BCE) and many of the nobility.\n\nThe first architectural records of Buddha images however, actually come from the reign of king Vasabha (65-109 BCE). The major Buddhist monasteries and schools in Ancient Sri Lanka were Mahāvihāra, Abhayagiri and Jetavana. The Pāli canon was written down during the 1st century BCE to preserve the teaching in a time of war and famine. It is the only complete collection of Buddhist texts to survive in a Middle Indo-Aryan language. It reflects the tradition of the Mahavihara school. Later Pali Mahavihara commentators of the Theravada such as Buddhaghoṣa (4th–5th century) and Dhammapāla (5th–6th century), systematized the traditional Sri Lankan commentary literature (Atthakatha).\n\nAlthough Mahāyāna Buddhism gained some influence in Sri Lanka as it was studied in Abhayagiri and Jetavana, the Mahavihara (“Great Monastery”) school became dominant in Sri Lanka following the reign of Parakramabahu I (1153–1186), who abolished the Abhayagiri and Jetavanin traditions.\n\nThe Buddhist movement that became known as Mahayana (Great Vehicle) and also the Bodhisattvayana, began sometime between 150 BCE and 100 CE, drawing on both Mahasamghika and Sarvastivada trends. The earliest inscription which is recognizably Mahayana dates from 180 CE and is found in Mathura.\n\nThe Mahayana emphasized the Bodhisattva path and the doctrine of upaya (skill in means). It emerged as a set of loose groups associated with new texts named the Mahayana sutras. The Mahayana sutras promoted new doctrines, such as the idea that \"there exist other Buddhas who are simultaneously preaching in countless other world-systems\". In time Mahayana Bodhisattvas and also multiple Buddhas came to be seen as transcendental beneficent beings who were subjects of devotion. \n\nMahayana remained a minority among Indian Buddhists for some time, growing slowly until about half of all monks encountered by Xuanzang in 7th-century India were Mahayanists. Early Mahayana schools of thought included the Mādhyamaka, Yogācāra, and Buddha-nature (\"Tathāgatagarbha\") teachings. Mahayana is today the dominant form of Buddhism in East Asia and Tibet.\n\nSeveral scholars have suggested that the Prajñāpāramitā sūtras, which are among the earliest Mahāyāna sūtras, developed among the Mahāsāṃghika along the Kṛṣṇa River in the Āndhra region of South India. The earliest Mahāyāna sūtras to include the very first versions of the Prajñāpāramitā genre, along with texts concerning Akṣobhya Buddha, which were probably written down in the 1st century BCE in the south of India. A.K. Warder believes that \"the Mahāyāna originated in the south of India and almost certainly in the Āndhra country.\" Anthony Barber and Sree Padma also trace Mahayana Buddhism to ancient Buddhist sites in the lower Kṛṣṇa Valley, including Amaravati, Nāgārjunakoṇḍā and Jaggayyapeṭa. \n\nThe Shunga dynasty (185–73 BCE) was established about 50 years after Aśoka's death. After assassinating King Brhadrata (last of the Mauryan rulers), military commander-in-chief Pushyamitra Shunga took the throne. Buddhist religious scriptures such as the Aśokāvadāna allege that Pushyamitra (an orthodox Brahmin) was hostile towards Buddhists and persecuted the Buddhist faith. Buddhists wrote that he \"destroyed hundreds of monasteries and killed hundreds of thousands of innocent Monks\": 840,000 Buddhist stupas which had been built by Aśoka were destroyed, and 100 gold coins were offered for the head of each Buddhist monk.\n\nModern historians, however, dispute this view in the light of literary and archaeological evidence. They opine that following Aśoka's sponsorship of Buddhism, it is possible that Buddhist institutions fell on harder times under the Shungas, but no evidence of active persecution has been noted. Etienne Lamotte observes: \"To judge from the documents, Pushyamitra must be acquitted through lack of proof.\" Another eminent historian, Romila Thapar points to archaeological evidence that \"suggests the contrary\" to the claim that \"Pushyamitra was a fanatical anti-Buddhist\" and that he \"never actually destroyed 840,000 stupas as claimed by Buddhist works, if any\". Thapar stresses that Buddhist accounts are probably hyperbolic renditions of Pushyamitra's attack of the Mauryas, and merely reflect the desperate frustration of the Buddhist religious figures in the face of the possibly irreversible decline in the importance of their religion under the Shungas.\n\nDuring the period, Buddhist monks deserted the Ganges valley, following either the northern road (\"uttarapatha\") or the southern road (\"dakṣinapatha\"). Conversely, Buddhist artistic creation stopped in the old Magadha area, to reposition itself either in the northwest area of Gandhāra and Mathura or in the southeast around Amaravati. Some artistic activity also occurred in central India, as in Bhārhut, to which the Shungas may or may not have contributed.\n\nThe Greco-Bactrian king Demetrius I (reigned c. 200–180 BCE) invaded the Indian Subcontinent, establishing an Indo-Greek kingdom that was to last in parts of Northwest South Asia until the end of the 1st century CE.\nBuddhism flourished under the Indo-Greek and Greco-Bactrian kings. One of the most famous Indo-Greek kings is Menander (reigned c. 160–135 BCE). He may have converted to Buddhism and is presented in the Mahāyāna tradition as one of the great benefactors of the faith, on a par with king Aśoka or the later Kushan king Kaniśka. Menander's coins bear designs of the eight-spoked dharma wheel, a classic Buddhist symbol. Direct cultural exchange is also suggested by the dialogue of the Milinda Pañha between Menander and the Buddhist monk Nāgasena, who was himself a student of the Greek Buddhist monk Mahadharmaraksita. Upon Menander's death, the honor of sharing his remains was claimed by the cities under his rule, and they were enshrined in stupas, in a parallel with the historic Buddha. Several of Menander's Indo-Greek successors inscribed \"Follower of the Dharma,\" in the Kharoṣṭhī script, on their coins.\n\nDuring the first century BCE the first anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha are found in the lands ruled by the Indo-Greeks, in a realistic style known as Greco-Buddhist. Many of the stylistic elements in the representations of the Buddha point to Greek influence: the Greco-Roman toga-like wavy robe covering both shoulders (more exactly, its lighter version, the Greek \"himation\"), the contrapposto stance of the upright figures (see: 1st–2nd century Gandhara standing Buddhas), the stylicized Mediterranean curly hair and topknot (ushnisha) apparently derived from the style of the Belvedere Apollo (330 BCE), and the measured quality of the faces, all rendered with strong artistic realism (See: Greek art). A large quantity of sculptures combining Buddhist and purely Hellenistic styles and iconography were excavated at the Gandharan site of Hadda.\n\nSeveral influential Greek Buddhist monks are recorded. Mahadharmaraksita (literally translated as 'Great Teacher/Preserver of the Dharma'), was \"a Greek (\"Yona\") Buddhist head monk\", according to the Mahavamsa (Chap. XXIX), who led 30,000 Buddhist monks from \"the Greek city of Alasandra\" (Alexandria of the Caucasus, around 150 km north of today's Kabul in Afghanistan), to Sri Lanka for the dedication of the Great Stupa in Anuradhapura during the rule (165 BC - 135 BC) of King Menander I. Dhammarakkhita (meaning: \"Protected by the Dharma\"), was one of the missionaries sent by the Mauryan emperor Ashoka to proselytize the Buddhist faith. He is described as being a Greek (Pali: \"Yona\", lit. \"Ionian\") in the Mahavamsa.\n\nThe Kushan empire (30–375 CE) was formed by the invading Yuezhi nomads in the 1st century BCE. It eventually encompassed much of northern India, Pakistan and Afghanistan. The Kushans adopted elements of the Hellenistic culture of Bactria and the Indo-Greeks. During Kushan rule, Gandharan Buddhism was at the height of its influence and a significant number of Buddhist centers were built or renovated. The Buddhist art of Kushan Gandhara was a synthesis of Greco-Roman, Iranian and Indian elements. The Gandhāran Buddhist texts also date from this period. Written in Gāndhārī Prakrit, they are the oldest Buddhist manuscripts yet discovered (circa 1st century CE). According to Richard Salomon, most of them belong to the Dharmaguptaka school. \n\nEmperor Kanishka (128–151 CE) is particularly known for his support of Buddhism. During his reign, stupas and monasteries were built in the Gandhāran city of Peshawar (Skt. \"Purusapura\"), which he used as a capital. Kushan royal support and the opening of trade routes allowed Gandharan Buddhism to spread along the Silk Road to Central Asia, the Tarim Basin and thus to China.\n\nKanishka is also said to have convened a major Buddhist council for the Sarvastivada tradition, either in Gandhara or Kashmir. Kanishka gathered 500 learned monks partly to compile extensive commentaries on the Abhidharma, although it is possible that some editorial work was carried out upon the existing Sarvastivada canon itself. Allegedly during the council there were altogether three hundred thousand verses and over nine million statements compiled, and it took twelve years to complete. The main fruit of this council was the compilation of the vast commentary known as the Mahā-Vibhāshā (\"Great Exegesis\"), an extensive compendium and reference work on a portion of the Sarvāstivādin Abhidharma. Modern scholars such as Etienne Lamotte and David Snellgrove have questioned the veracity of this traditional account.\n\nScholars believe that it was also around this time that a significant change was made in the language of the Sarvāstivādin canon, by converting an earlier Prakrit version into Sanskrit. Although this change was probably effected without significant loss of integrity to the canon, this event was of particular significance since Sanskrit was the sacred language of Brahmanism in India, and was also being used by other thinkers, regardless of their specific religious or philosophical allegiance, thus enabling a far wider audience to gain access to Buddhist ideas and practices.\n\nAfter the fall of the Kushans, small kingdoms ruled the Gandharan region, and later the Hephthalite White Huns conquered the area (circa 440s–670). Under the Hephthalites, Gandharan Buddhism continued to thrive in cities like Balkh (Bactria), as remarked by Xuanzang who visited the region in the 7th century. Xuanzang notes that there were over a hundred Buddhist monasteries in the city, including the Nava Vihara as well many stupas and monks. After the end of the Hephthalite empire, Gandharan Buddhism declined in Gandhara proper (in the Peshawar basin). However it continued to thrive in adjacent areas like the Swat Valley of Pakistan, Gilgit, Kashmir and in Afghanistan (in sites such as Bamiyan).\n\nCentral Asia was home to the international trade route known as the Silk Road, which carried goods between China, India, the Middle east and the Mediterranean world. Buddhism was present in this region from about the second century BCE. Initially, the Dharmaguptaka school was the most successful in their efforts to spread Buddhism in Central Asia. The Kingdom of Khotan was one of the earliest Buddhist kindgoms in the area and helped transmit Buddhism from India to China.\n\nThe Kushan empire's unification of most of this area and their support of Buddhism allowed it to easily spread along the trade routes of the region throughout Central Asia. During the first century CE under the Kushans, the Sarvastivada school flourished in this region, some of the monks also bringing Mahayana teachings with them. Buddhism would eventually reach modern-day Pakistan, Kashmir, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. As Buddhism reached many of these lands, Buddhists began to translate and produce texts in the local languages, such as Khotanese (a Middle Iranian language), Sogdian (also Iranian), Uigur (Turkish), Tangut, Tibetan, and Chinese.\n\nCentral Asians played a key role in the transmission of Buddhism to China The first translators of Buddhists scriptures into Chinese were Iranians, including the Parthian An Shigao (c. 148 CE), the Yuezhi Zhi Qian and Kang Sengkai (from Samarkand). Thirty-seven early translators of Buddhist texts are known, and the majority of them have been identified as hailing from the Iranian cultural sphere. The Zoroastrian Sassanian empire (226–651 CE) would eventually rule over many of these regions (such as Parthia and Sogdia), but they tolerated the Buddhist religion. During the mid-seventh century, the Islamic conquest of the Iranian Plateau followed by the Muslim conquests of Afghanistan and the later establishment of the Ghaznavid kingdom in Central Asia (ca. 977–1186) led to the decline and eventual disappearance of Buddhism from most of these regions.\n\nBuddhism also flourished in the eastern part of central Asia (Chinese Turkestan, Tarim Basin). Indians and Iranians lived in major cities of this region like Kashgar and Khotan. The region has revealed extremely rich Buddhist works of art as well as Buddhist texts such as those found in Dunhuang. Serindian art is highly reminiscent of the Gandhāran style, and scriptures in the Gandhāri script Kharoṣṭhī have been found. The Uyghurs conquered the area in the 8th century and blended with the local Iranian peoples, absorbing the Buddhist culture of the region. They were later absorbed by the mongol Yuan dynasty. Many printed Buddhist texts from the region date to the Yuan, and they were printed in the Uyghur, Xixia and Sanskrit languages. The Uyghurs also restored cave temples and repainted Buddhist wall paintings such as at Bezeklik. Uyghur Buddhism was the last major Buddhist culture in East Turkestan and it lasted until the mid 14th century. After the Islamicisation of Xinjiang, Buddhism ceased to be a major religion there.\n\nBuddhism continued to flourish in India during the Gupta Empire (4th-6th centuries) which brought order to much of north India. Gupta rulers such as Kumaragupta I (c. 414 – 455 CE) supported and enlarged the Nālandā university, which became the largest and most influential Buddhist university in India for many centuries. The great Buddhist philosopher Dignaga taught his new doctrine there, and Nalanda remained a central place for the study of the theory of knowledge (pramana). Another major Buddhist university was Valabhi, in western India, which was second only to Nalanda in the 5th century. The influence of the Gupta style of Buddhist art spread along with the faith from south-east Asia to China. During this period, Chinese pilgrims also visited India to study Buddhism.\n\nOne of these pilgrims was Faxian, who visited India during the reign of the Gupta emperor Chandragupta II in 405, and commented on the prosperity and mild administration of the Gupta empire. Another Chinese traveler who reached India after the end of the Guptas in the 7th century was Xuanzang. He reported in his travels across India that Buddhism was popular in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. While reporting many deserted stupas in the area around modern day Nepal and the persecution of Buddhists by Shashanka in the Kingdom of Gauda in modern-day West Bengal,\nXuanzang complimented the patronage of emperor Harṣavardana (c. 590–647 CE). Xuanzang also noted that in various regions Buddhism was giving way to Jainism and Hinduism.\n\nAfter the fall of Harsha's empire, the gangetic plain saw the rise of many small feuding kingdoms. This was to last until the rise of the Pāla Empire (8th-12th centuries) arose in the Bengal region. The Pālas were stanch supporters of Buddhism, and build several important Buddhist centers, such as Vikramashila, Somapura and Odantapuri. They also supported older centers like Nalanda and Bodh Gaya. It was at these great Buddhist universities that scholars elaborated the philosophies of Abhidharma, Madhyamaka and Pramana, as well as the study of linguistics, medicine, astronomy, music, painting and sculpture. Great Buddhist scholars such as Atisha and Santaraksita date from this period. Under the Pālas, Mahāyāna Buddhism thus flourished and spread to Tibet, Bhutan and Sikkim.\n\nA milestone in the decline of Indian Buddhism in the North occurred in 1193 when Turkic Islamic raiders under Muhammad Khilji burnt Nālandā. By the end of the 12th century, following the Islamic conquest of the Buddhist strongholds in Bihar and the loss of political support coupled with social pressures, the practice of Buddhism retreated to the Himalayan foothills in the North and Sri Lanka in the south. Additionally, the influence of Buddhism also waned due to Hinduism's revival movements such as Advaita, and the rise of the bhakti movement.\n\nUnder the Gupta and Pala empires, a Tantric Buddhist movement arose, variously named Vajrayāna, Mantrayāna, Tantric Buddhism and Esoteric Buddhism. It promoted new practices such as the use of mantras, dharanis, mudras, mandalas and the visualization of deities and Buddhas and developed a new class of literature, the Buddhist Tantras. The movement can be traced back to groups of wandering yogis called mahasiddhas.\n\nVarious classes of Vajrayana literature developed as a result of royal courts sponsoring both Buddhism and Saivism, especially the Buddhist Yogini tantras. The Mañjusrimulakalpa, which later came to classified under Kriyatantra, states that mantras taught in the Shaiva, Garuda and Vaishnava tantras will be effective if applied by Buddhists since they were all taught originally by Manjushri. The Guhyasiddhi of Padmavajra, a work associated with the Guhyasamaja tradition, prescribes acting as a Shaiva guru and initiating members into Saiva Siddhanta scriptures and mandalas. The Samvara tantra texts adopted the pitha list from the Shaiva text \"Tantrasadbhava\", introducing a copying error where a deity was mistaken for a place.\n\nBuddhism arrived late in Tibet, during the 7th century. The form that predominated, via the south of Tibet, was a blend of \"mahāyāna\" and \"vajrayāna\" from the universities of the Pāla empire of the Bengal region in eastern India. Sarvāstivādin influence came from the south west (Kashmir) and the north west (Khotan). Their texts found their way into the Tibetan Buddhist canon, providing the Tibetans with almost all of their primary sources about the Foundation Vehicle. A subsect of this school, Mūlasarvāstivāda was the source of the Tibetan Vinaya. Chan Buddhism was introduced via east Tibet from China and left its impression, but was rendered of lesser importance by early political events.\n\nFrom the outset Buddhism was opposed by the native shamanistic Bon religion, which had the support of the aristocracy, but with royal patronage it thrived to a peak under King Rälpachän (817-836). Terminology in translation was standardised around 825, enabling a translation methodology that was highly literal. Despite a reversal in Buddhist influence which began under King Langdarma (836-842), the following centuries saw a colossal effort in collecting available Indian sources, many of which are now extant only in Tibetan translation. Tibetan Buddhism was favored above other religions by the rulers of imperial Chinese and Mongol Yuan Dynasty (1271–1368).\n\nBuddhism was introduced in China during the Han dynasty (206 BC-220 CE) and was present by around 50 CE. Although the archaeological record confirms that Buddhism was introduced sometime during the Han dynasty, it did not flourish in China until the Six Dynasties period (220-589 CE). The first documented Buddhist texts translated into Chinese are those of the Parthian An Shigao (148-180 CE). The first known Mahāyāna scriptural texts are translations into Chinese by the Kushan monk Lokakṣema in Luoyang, between 178 and 189 CE. Early translators faced the difficulty of communicating foreign Buddhist concepts to the Chinese, and often used Taoist terminology to explain them. This has been called \"concept-matching\". Later translators such as Kumārajīva (334–413 CE) improved the translation methods of Chinese Buddhism considerably.\n\nSome of the earliest known Buddhist artifacts found in China are small statues on \"money trees\", dated c. 200 CE, in typical Gandhāran drawing style. In the period between 460-525 CE during the Northern Wei dynasty, the Chinese constructed Yungang Grottoes, and the Longmen Grottoes which include some impressive monumental sculptures. In the fifth century, Chinese Buddhists also developed new schools and traditions, such as the Tiantai school, the Huayen school, the Pure Land school and Chan Buddhism.\n\nBuddhism continued to grow during the early Tang Dynasty (618–907). It was during this dynasty that the Chinese monk Xuanzang traveled to India, bringing back 657 Buddhist texts along with relics and statues. He established a famed translation school in the Tang capital of Chang'an (today's Xi'an), focusing on Yogacara school texts. Also during the Tang, Chinese Esoteric Buddhism was introduced from India. The Tang dynasty also saw the growth of Chan Buddhism (Zen), with the great Zen masters such as Mazu Daoyi and Linji Yixuan. In the later Tang, Chinese Buddhism suffered a setback during the Great Anti-Buddhist Persecution of 845.\n\nBuddhism recovered during the Song Dynasty (960–1279), which is known as the \"golden age\" of Chan. During this period Chinese Chan influenced Korean and Japanese Buddhism. Pure Land Buddhism also became popular during this period and was often practiced together with Chan. It was also during the Song that the entire Chinese canon was printed using over 130,000 wooden printing blocks.\n\nDuring the Yuan Dynasty, Tibetan Buddhism became the state religion. During the Ming (1368-1644), the Chan school became the dominant tradition in China and all monks were affiliated with Chan. In the 17th century, Buddhism was spread to Taiwan by Chinese immigrants.\n\nThere is disagreement on when exactly Buddhism arrived in Vietnam. Buddhism may have arrived as early as the 3rd or 2nd century BCE via India, or alternatively during the 1st or 2nd century from China. Whatever the case, Mahayana Buddhism had been established by the second century CE in Vietnam. By the 9th century, both Pure Land and Thien (Zen) were major Vietnamese Buddhist schools. In the southern Kingdom of Champa, Hinduism, Theravada and Mahayana were all practiced until the 15th century, when an invasion from the north led to the dominance of Chinese-based forms of Buddhism. However Theravada Buddhism continues to exist in the south of Vietnam. Vietnamese Buddhism is thus very similar to Chinese Buddhism and to some extent reflects the structure of Chinese Buddhism after the Song Dynasty. Vietnamese Buddhism also has a symbiotic relationship with Taoism, Chinese spirituality and the native Vietnamese religion.\n\nBuddhism was introduced to the Three Kingdoms of Korea beginning around 372 CE. During the 6th century, many Korean monks traveled to China and India to study Buddhism and various Korean Buddhist schools developed. Buddhism prospered in Korea during the Silla period (688-935) when it became a dominant force in society. Buddhism continued to be popular in the Goryeo period (918-1392), in particular Seon (Zen) Buddhism. However, during the Confucian Yi Dynasty of the Joseon period, Buddhism faced a reversal of fortunes beginning with the confiscation of monastery lands, the closing of monasteries and the ban on ordination by aristocrats in the 15th century.\n\nBuddhism was introduced to Japan in the 6th century by Korean monks bearing sutras and an image of the Buddha. During the Nara Period (710–794), emperor Shōmu ordered the building of temples throughout his realm. Numerous temples and monasteries were built in the capital city of Nara, such as the five-story pagoda and Golden Hall of the Hōryū-ji, or the Kōfuku-ji temple. There was also a proliferation of Buddhist sects in the capital city of Nara, known as the \"Nanto Rokushū\" (\"the Six Nara Sects\"). The most influential of these being the Kegon school (from the Chinese Huayan).\n\nDuring the late Nara, the key figures of Kūkai (774–835) and Saichō (767–822) founded the influential Japanese schools of Shingon and Tendai, respectively. An important doctrine for these schools was Hongaku (innate awakening or original enlightenment), a doctrine which was influential for all subsequent Japanese Buddhism. Buddhism also influenced the Japanese religion of Shinto, which incorporated Buddhist elements.\n\nDuring the later Kamakura period (1185-1333), there were six new Buddhist schools founded which competed with the older Nara schools and are known as \"New Buddhism\" or \"Kamakura Buddhism.\" They include the influential Pure Land schools of Hōnen (1133–1212) and Shinran (1173–1263), the Rinzai and Soto schools of Zen founded by Eisai (1141–1215) and Dōgen (1200–1253) as well as the Lotus sutra school of Nichiren (1222–1282).\n\nJapanese Buddhist art was especially productive between the 8th and 13th centuries during Nara period (710-794), Heian period (794-1185) and Kamakura period (1185-1333). Buddhism, especially Zen, remained culturally influential during the Ashikaga period (1333–1573) and the Tokugawa era (1603–1867).\n\nSince around 500 BCE, the culture of India has exerted influence on Southeast Asian countries. Land and maritime trade routes linked India with the region and both Hindu and Buddhist beliefs became influential there during the period of the Indianization of Southeast Asia. For more than a thousand years, Indian influence was therefore the major factor that brought a certain level of cultural unity to the various countries of the region. The Pāli and Sanskrit languages and Indian scripts, together with Theravāda and Mahāyāna Buddhism, Brahmanism, and Hinduism, were transmitted from direct contact and through sacred texts and Indian literature such as the Rāmāyaṇa and the Mahābhārata.\n\nFrom the 5th to the 13th centuries, South-East Asia saw a series of powerful states which were extremely active in the promotion of Buddhism and Buddhist art alongside of Hinduism. The main Buddhist influence now came directly by sea from the Indian subcontinent, so that these empires essentially followed the Mahāyāna faith. Examples include mainland kingdoms like Funan, the Khmer Empire and the Thai kingdom of Sukhothai as well as Island kingdoms like the Kalingga Kingdom, the Srivijayan Empire, Medang Kingdom and Majapahit.\n\nBuddhism monks traveled to China from the kingdom of Funan in the 5th century CE, bringing Mahayana texts, a sign that the religion was already established in the region by this point. Mahayana Buddhism and Hinduism were the main religions of the Khmer Empire (802–1431), a state that dominated most of the South-East Asian peninsula during its time. Under the Khmer, numerous temples, both Hindu and Buddhist, were built in Cambodia and in neighboring Thailand. One of the greatest Khmer kings, Jayavarman VII (1181–1219), built large Mahāyāna Buddhist structures at Bayon and Angkor Thom.\n\nIn the Indonesian island of Java, Indianized kingdoms like the Kalingga Kingdom (6-7th centuries) were destinations for Chinese monks seeking out Buddhist texts. The Malay Srivijaya (650–1377), a maritime empire centered on the island of Sumatra, adopted Mahāyāna and Vajrayāna Buddhism and spread Buddhism to Java, Malaya and other regions they conquered. The Chinese Buddhist Yijing described their capital at Palembang as a great center of Buddhist learning where the emperor supported over a thousand monks at his court. Yijing also testified to the importance of Buddhism as early as the year 671 and advised future Chinese pilgrims to spend a year or two in Palembang. Atiśa studied there before travelling to Tibet as a missionary. As Srivijaya expanded, Buddhism thrived and also became part of a local syncretism that incorporated several different religions such as Hinduism and other indigenous traditions.\n\nIn the island of Java, another kingdom also promoted Mahayana Buddhist culture, the Medang Kingdom (732–1006), a major rival of Srivijaya. They are known for their monumental temple construction, especially the massive Borobudur, as well as Kalasan, Sewu, and Prambanan. Indonesian Buddhism, alongside Hinduism, continued to thrive under the Majapahit empire (1293–1527), but was completely replaced by islam afterwards.\n\nThe lands of the Mon and Pyu peoples in Myanmar show extensive evidence of Theravada presence in the Irrawaddy and Chao Phraya basins from the 5th century CE onwards. Theravada Buddhism in Burma initially coexisted with other forms of Buddhism and other religions. After the decline of Buddhism in the Indian mainland, Theravada Buddhist monks from Sri Lanka mounted missionary efforts in Burma, Thailand, Cambodia and Laos, and they were successful in converting all these regions to Theravada Buddhism.\n\nKing Anawrahta (1044–1078); the founder of the Pagan Empire, adopted the Theravādin Buddhist faith from Sri lanka, building numerous Buddhist temples at his capital of Pagan. Invasions from the Burmese and the Mongols weakened Theravada in this region and it had to be reintroduced from Sri Lanka. During the Mon Hanthawaddy Kingdom (1287–1552), Theravada Buddhism was the dominant religion in Burma, with strong ties to Sri Lankan Buddhism. One of their kings, Dhammazedi, is particularly known for his reformation of Burmese Buddhism from the Sri Lankan Mahavihara tradition between 1476 and 1479. Theravada remained the official religion of the subsequent Burmese Taungoo Dynasty (1510–1752).\n\nDuring the reign of the Khmer King Jayavarman VII (reigned c.1181–1218), Theravada Buddhism was promoted by the royal family and Sri Lankan monks, including his son Tamalinda who himself had traveled to Sri Lanka. During the 13th and 14th centuries, Theravada became the dominant religion of Cambodia, and monasteries replaced the local priestly classes. The Theravāda faith was also adopted by the Thai kingdom of Sukhothai as the state religion during the reign of Ram Khamhaeng (1237/1247 - 1298). Theravāda Buddhism was further reinforced during the Ayutthaya period (14th–18th century), becoming an integral part of Thai society.\n\nThe modern era brought new challenges to the Buddhist religion such as the colonization of traditionally Buddhist Asian countries by Western states, which weakened the traditional political structures which supported the religion as well as criticism and competition from Christianity. Modern wars, communism, the growth of capitalism, science and regional political instability are also influential pressures on modern Buddhism.\n\nIn Sri Lanka under the British, Christian missionaries ran all the state approved schools and strongly criticized Buddhism. By 1865, Buddhist monks began a counter movement against Christian attacks, printing pamphlets and debating Christians in public, such as at the famous Panadura debate in 1873, which saw the monk Gunananda win a debate in front of a crowd of 10,000. During this period a new form of Buddhism began to take shape, termed Buddhist modernism, which tended to see the Buddha as a simple human being and Buddhism as a rational, scientific religion. Important figures in this new movement include the American convert Henry Olcott (1832– 1907) and Anagarika Dharmapala (1864–1933), who promoted Buddhist schools, lay organizations and the printing of newspapers. Dharmapala also founded the Mahā Bodhi Society to restore the dilapidated Indian site of Bodh Gaya. Dharmapala also traveled to the UK and the USA to teach Buddhism. \n\nThis society helped usher in a revival of Buddhism in India, where Buddhism became popular among some Indian intellectuals. One of these was the lawyer B. R. Ambedkar (1891–1956), leader of the Dalit Buddhist movement, who urged low caste Indian Dalits to convert to Buddhism. \n\nIn Burma, a central modern figure is King Mindon (r. 1853–78), who presided over the 5th Buddhist council (1868-71) where different editions of the Pali Canon where cross checked and a final version was inscribed on 729 stone slabs, currently still the world's largest book. A new meditation movement arose, called the Vipassana movement, beginning with figures such as Medawi (1728–1816), who was instrumental in the promotion of Buddhist meditation practices. In 1956, Burmese politician U Nu presided over the sixth council, which saw monks from various Theravada countries produce a new edition of the Pali Canon. Recently, Buddhist monks were involved in political protest movements such as the Saffron Revolution of 2007.\n\nThailand, which was the only country to avoid colonization, had two important Buddhist kings, who pushed for modernization and reformation of the Buddhist sangha. They were King Mongkut (r. 1851–68), and his son King Chulalongkorn (r. 1868–1910), who were responsible for several key modern reforms of Thai Buddhism. Two recent Thai modernist movements are the monastic revival of the Thai forest tradition and the Wat Phra Dhammakāya movement.\n\nFrom 1893, Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos were all French colonies. The Communists came to power in Laos in 1975. There was no widespread repression of the Buddhist sangha, but the communist government has sought to control the sangha and use it as a tool to spread its ideology. In Cambodia however, the communist terror of the Khmer rouge during 1975-9 caused much damage to the Buddhist sangha.\n\nThe opening of Japan in 1853 by Admiral Perry and the Meiji Restoration of 1868 led to the end of feudal Japan and rapid modernization. A new form of State Shinto arose as a strong competitor to Buddhism when it was adopted by the Japanese government. In 1872, the Japanese government decreed that Buddhist clerics could marry. These changes led to modernization efforts by Japanese Buddhism which saw the setting up of publishing houses and the study of Western philosophy and scholarship. In the post war period, Japanese new religions arose, many of them influenced by Buddhism.\n\nChinese Buddhism meanwhile, suffered much destruction during the Christian-inspired Taiping rebellion (1850-64), but saw a modest revival during the Republican period (1912-49). A key figure was Taixu (T’ai-hsü, 1899–1947), who is associated with the modernist Humanistic Buddhism trend of Chinese Buddhism. The Communist Cultural Revolution (1966–76) led to the closing of all Buddhist monasteries and widespread destruction of Buddhist institutions. However, since 1977, there has been a general shift in the policy of the communist government, and Buddhist activity, both monastic and lay, has once again been renewed.\n\nKorean Buddhism suffered a series of setbacks during the Japanese invasions, occupation, and also during the Korean war. North Korea's harsh government nevertheless offers some limited support to the sangha, but it closely controls all activity. In South Korea, Buddhism underwent a revival, with youth groups being influential and temples being rebuilt with government aid. An example of a recent modern form of Korean Buddhism is Won Buddhism.\n\nTibet remained a traditional theocratic state (the Ganden Phodrang) with the Dalai Lamas at the head, until the Chinese communist invasion in 1950. The 14th Dalai Lama fled the country in 1959. A Tibetan exile community was established in India, with its center at Dharamsala, which today contains many Buddhist monasteries. The 14th Dalai Lama has become one of the most popular Buddhist leaders in the world today. \n\nDuring the Red Guard period (1966-7), Chinese communists destroyed around 6,000 monasteries in Tibet along with their art and books, an attempt to wipe out the Tibetan Buddhist culture. After 1980, Chinese repression of Tibetan Buddhism has decreased and the situation has improved with the reprinting of the Tibetan Canon and some artistic restoration. In the nearby countries of Bhutan, and Nepal, Vajrayana Buddhism continues to flourish as a major religion.\n\nIn Mongolia, which also has Tibetan Buddhism as its main religion, soviet dominance (between 1924-1990) saw much repression of Buddhism. However, Buddhism is now undergoing a revival in post communist Mongolia, with more ordained monks and nuns, and 284 monasteries since 2009. More recent liberal attitudes towards religion has also benefited the Buddhists of Tuva and Buryatia, as well as the Chinese region of Inner Mongolia.\n\nAnother modern development was the founding of the Kalmyk Khanate in the 17th century with Tibetan Buddhism as its main religion. During the course of the 18th century, they were absorbed by the Russian Empire as Kalmykia, and remains a federal subject of Russia.\n\nDuring the 19th century, Western intellectuals became more aware of Buddhism through various contacts such as colonial servants, administrators, and Christian missionaries. Sir Edwin Arnold's book-length poem \"The Light of Asia\" (1879), a life of the Buddha, was a successful early publication on Buddhism that led to much interest among English speaking middle classes. The work of western Buddhist scholars like Hermann Oldenberg (1854–1920), T. W. Rhys Davids (1843– 1922) and F. Max Müller was also influential in introducing Buddhism to western audiences.\n\nThe late 19th century also saw the first-known modern western conversions to Buddhism, including leading Theosophists Henry Steel Olcott and Helena Blavatsky in 1880 in Sri Lanka. The Theosophical Society was very influential in popularizing Indian religions in the west. The 19th century also saw the first western monastics such as U Dhammaloka, Ananda Metteyya and the German Nyānatiloka Thera (1878–1956). \n\nAnother important element leading to the growth of Buddhism in the west was the large scale immigration of Chinese and Japanese to the United States and Canada in late 19th century. Refugees from Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia have also immigrated to west, beginning in 1975. Asian Buddhists such as DT Suzuki, Hsüan Hua, Hakuun Yasutani and Thích Nhất Hạnh were influential in teaching Zen Buddhism in the West in the 20th century. Shunryu Suzuki opened the Soto San Francisco Zen Center (1961) and the Tassajara Monastery (1967). \n\nThe Tibetan diaspora has also been active in promoting Tibetan Buddhism in the West. All of the four major Tibetan Buddhist schools have a presence and have attracted converts. Among its prominent exponents have been Lama Thubten Zopa, Tarthang Tulku and Chögyam Trungpa. The number of its adherents is estimated to be between ten and twenty million.\n\nThe Theravada tradition has established various temples in the West, especially among immigrant communities in the USA. Theravada vipassana meditation was also established in the West, through the founding of institutions like the Insight Meditation Society in 1975. The Thai forest tradition has also established communities in the USA and in the UK. In the UK, the Triratna Buddhist Community arose as a new modern Buddhist movement.\n\nIn Continental Europe, interest in Buddhism also increased during the late 20th century, with an exponential increase in Buddhist groups in countries like Germany. In France and Spain, Tibetan Buddhism has the largest following. Tibetan, East Asian and Theravada traditions are now also present and active in Australia and New Zealand. Tibetan and Zen Buddhism also have established a small presence in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Venezuela. \n\nThe expansion of Buddhism to the west in the 20th century has made the religion a worldwide phenomenon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52663995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52663995", "title": "Hundi (cash collection box)", "text": "Hundi (cash collection box)\n\nA hundi is a collection box used in Indian temples to collect cash offerings from devotees. During the 2016 demonetisation of Indian Currency, there were concerns that the discontinued Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes could be hidden in hundis, where monitoring isn't as stringent.\n"}
{"id": "25328618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25328618", "title": "International Institute for Inter-Religious Dialogue and Diplomacy", "text": "International Institute for Inter-Religious Dialogue and Diplomacy\n\nThe International Institute for Inter-Religious Dialogue and Diplomacy is an affiliated institution of EUCLID (Euclid University). Its main focus is education in the application of diplomatic methods to interreligious dialogue, notably between Christianity and Islam.\n"}
{"id": "1275281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1275281", "title": "Islam in Guyana", "text": "Islam in Guyana\n\nIslam in Guyana is the third largest religion in the country after Christianity and Hinduism, respectively. According to the 2002 census, 7.3% of the country is Muslim. However, a Pew Research survey from 2010 estimates that 6.4% of the country is Muslim.\n\nIslam was first introduced to Guyana via slaves from West Africa, but was suppressed on plantations. Thus, the religion really gained a foothold after the mid 19th century when indentured servants and slaves from South Asia were brought to the country. After Guyana gained its independence in 1966, the country strengthened its ties with the Middle East and other parts of the greater Muslim world. In 1998, Guyana joined the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.\n\nThe Islamic holidays of Eid al-Adha, Eid al-Fitr and Mawlid (the birthday of Muhammad) are nationally recognized in Guyana. The dates for these holidays vary according to the Islamic calendar.\n\nAs with most South American countries, Islam spread to Guyana through the transtlantic slave trade. Mandingo and Fulani Muslims were brought from West Africa to work as slaves in Guyana's sugar plantations. However, the oppressive conditions of slavery in the colony led the practice of Islam to essentially disappear until 1838 when 240,000 South Asians were brought from modern-day India, Pakistan, and Afghanistan. Records from the time show that while overwhelming majority of these servants were Hindu, a significant minority were Muslim. After Guyana's independence from the British in 1966, Guyana established diplomatic relations with Arab countries such as Egypt, Iraq and Libya who opened embassies in the capital of Georgetown. Some Muslim youths went to Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Libya to study Islamic theology and the Arabic language. In 1996, President Cheddi Jagan of Guyana toured Syria, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Lebanon and appointed a Middle Eastern envoy. In the same year, Guyana officially became a permanent observer in the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC). In 1998, Guyana became the 56th full member state of the OIC.\n\nHindi is popular among Indo-Guyanese Muslims who watch films and listen to music from Bollywood.\n\nAccording to Guyanese-American professor Raymond Chickrie, Hindus and Muslims in Guyana have always had \"a cordial relationship among themselves. It would seem that these two groups had come to a mutual understanding of respecting each other's space while culturally and even linguistically identifying with each other.\" Civic leader Richard David states that interfaith marriages between Muslims and Christians or Muslims and Hindus is common.\n\nThe Central Islamic Organization of Guyana (CIOG) is the oldest Islamic group in Guyana. They are involved in relief work and orphan sponsorships.\n\nThe Guyana Islamic Trust (GIT) is a multi-faceted, nonprofit organization which has been established since 1978. The GIT has dedicated itself to the process of bringing about intellectual, moral and spiritual improvement to individuals, families and communities in Guyana. Their goal is education, since they believe \"ignorance is the root cause of the intolerance, racism, immorality and criminality that pervades our society and our world.\" The Guyana Islamic Trust manages its grass root work through fourteen Administrative Districts. Some of the areas of operations of the districts include:\n\n\nThe National Islamic Sisters Association (NISA) is the women's arm of the GIT. General areas of NISA's work include:\n\nThe Guyana Islamic Institute (GII) remains one of the Caribbean's premier Islamic centers of learning. Since its establishment in 1986, scores of students from Guyana and the Caribbean have graduated from a wide range of courses including Arabic Language, Qur'anic Sciences and Islamic Studies. Many of these graduates have since become Shuyukh, Imaams and Du'at and today are serving the Ummah in Guyana, the Caribbean, North America and other parts of the world.\n\nThe GII will continue to orient and equip its students to be Du'at in their respective communities, and for further studies at higher institutions of learning; will inculcate in them a sound exposition, understanding and knowledge of the Islamic concepts of life, death and the Hereafter; will imbue in them mannerisms, attitudes and social graces which will encourage Muslims to improve themselves and will proselytize Non-Muslims; will enhance the understanding of Islam based on the Qur'an and Sunnah; will offer the resources and training opportunities for Muslims to improve their understanding and practice of Islam.\n\nThe GII concurrently offers two one year residential programs: one for secondary school graduates and the other being an advanced course for students completing the initial one year at the GII or having the necessary prerequisite knowledge base.\n\nStudents of these programs are given in-depth tutoring in the areas of:\nStudents of the GII are given hands-on experience in:\n\nThe National United Halaal Authority of Guyana was established in 2011. This organisation is dedicated to the inspection and certification of Halal products and food establishments in Guyana.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya Muslim Community was established in the country in the 1960s and has several mosques across the country including Georgetown, Rosignol, New Amsterdam and Sisters Village.\n\nGuyana (since 1998) and Suriname (since 1996) are the only American countries which are member states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation.\n\nMuslims were not allowed to vote in Guyana until 1994. Shabnam Alli notes that while \"Muslims contribute tremendously to the socio-economic sector of Guyana today,\" they are underrepresented in government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4200670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4200670", "title": "Islam in Jamaica", "text": "Islam in Jamaica\n\nIslam in Jamaica is a minority religious affiliation. Muslims arrived in Jamaica through waves of immigration from Africa and the Indian subcontinent, and today make up a population of about 5,000 with several mosques and festivals.\n\nThe first Muslims in Jamaica were West African Moors captured in the Reconquista sold as slaves to traders, and brought to Jamaica on ships. Over time most of them lost their Islamic identity due to forced mixing of ethnic groups. Mu’minun of African descent belonging to the Islamic nations of Mandinka, Fula, Susu, Ashanti and Hausa ceaselessly tried to maintain their Islamic practices in secrecy,\nwhile working as slaves on the plantations in Jamaica. By the time the slaves were liberated, much of the Muslim faith of the past had faded, and the freed slaves picked up the faith of their slave masters.\n\nAbout 16 percent of the 37,000 indentured Indian immigrants who arrived to Jamaica between 1845 and 1917 were Muslims. Muhammad Khan, who came to Jamaica in 1915 at the age of 15, built Masjid Ar-Rahman in Spanish Town in 1957, while Westmoreland's Masjid Hussein was built by Muhammad Golaub, who immigrated with his father at the age of 7. The indentured Muslims laid the foundation of the eight other masjids established in Jamaica since the 1960s, with the advent of an indigenous Jamaican Muslim community that now forms the majority of the Muslim populace on the island.\n\nThe statistics for Islam in Jamaica estimate a total Muslim population of about 5,000. There are several Islamic organizations and mosques in Jamaica, including the Islamic Council of Jamaica and the Islamic Education and Dawah Center, both located in Kingston and offering classes in Islamic studies and daily prayers in congregation. Outside Kingston organizations include Masjid Al Haq in Mandeville, Masjid Al-Ihsan in Negril, Masjid-Al-Hikmah in Ocho Rios, the Port Maria Islamic Center in Saint Mary and the Ahmadiyya Mahdi Mosque in Old Harbour.\n\nThese are the main Islamic Festivals practised by Jamaican Muslims:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7758162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7758162", "title": "Islam in the Republic of the Congo", "text": "Islam in the Republic of the Congo\n\nIslam spread to the Republic of the Congo from North Africa in the mid-19th century.\n\nThe Muslim community in the country is estimated at 1.3 percent of the population. In 2005 a large new mosque was constructed in Brazzaville. Most workers in the urban centers were immigrants from West Africa and Lebanon, with some also from North Africa. The West African immigrants arrived mostly from Mali, Benin, Togo, Mauritania, and Senegal. The Lebanese were primarily Sunni Muslims. There was also a large Chadian Muslim population.\n\nMuslim holy days are not nationally observed; however, they are respected. Employers grant leave for those who wish to observe holy days not on the national calendar.\n\n"}
{"id": "827204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827204", "title": "J. Gordon Melton", "text": "J. Gordon Melton\n\nJohn Gordon Melton (born September 19, 1942) is an American religious scholar who was the founding director of the Institute for the Study of American Religion and is currently the Distinguished Professor of American Religious History with the Institute for Studies of Religion at Baylor University in Waco, Texas, where he resides. He is also an ordained minister in the United Methodist Church.\n\nMelton is the author of more than forty-five books, including several encyclopedias, handbooks, and scholarly textbooks on American religious history, Methodism, world religions, and new religious movements (NRMs). His areas of research include major religious traditions, American Methodism, new and alternative religions, Western Esotericism (popularly called occultism) and parapsychology, New Age, and Dracula and vampire studies. He has been an advocate of religious freedom and was involved in the scholarly debates on the legitimacy of some NRMs and in establishing the field of new religion studies in academia.\n\nMelton was born in Birmingham, Alabama, the son of Burnum Edgar Melton and Inez Parker. During his senior year in high school he came across \"The Small Sects in America\" by Elmer T. Clark and became interested in reading as much as possible on alternative religions.\n\nIn 1964 he graduated from Birmingham Southern College with the B.A. degree and then proceeded to theological studies at Garrett-Evangelical Theological Seminary, from which he received an M.Div. with a concentration in church history in 1968. He married Dorothea Dudley in 1966, with one daughter, Melanie. The marriage ended in divorce in 1979. His second wife is named Suzie.\n\nIn 1968, Melton was ordained as an elder in the United Methodist church, an appointment he retains to this day. He was the pastor of the United Methodist church in Wyanet, Illinois (1974–75), and then at Evanston, Illinois (1975–80). He was also a member of the Spiritual Frontiers Fellowship.\n\nMelton pursued further graduate studies at Northwestern University where he received his Ph.D. in 1975 in the History and Literature of Religions with a specialty in American history. His doctoral dissertation surveyed some 800 religious groups known to exist in the United States at the time and led to the development of a classification system that has come to be widely used.\n\nMuch of Melton's professional career has involved literary and field research into alternative and minority religious bodies. In taking his cue from the writings of Elmer Clark, Melton has spent much of his career identifying, counting and classifying the many different churches, major religious traditions, and new and alternative religions found in North America. His \"Encyclopedia of American Religions\", which was originally published in 1978 (ninth ed. 2016), has become the standard reference work in the field.\n\nOther noteworthy reference works include his \"Biographical Dictionary of American Cult and Sect Leaders\", \"Encyclopedia of Occultism and Parapsychology\", \"New Age Almanac\", and \"Prime-time Religion\" (co-authored with Phillip Charles Lucas and Jon R. Stone). He has also acted as the series editor for six multi-volume series of reference books: \"American Religious Creeds\", \"Religions of the World\", \"The Churches Speak\", \"Cults and New Religions\", \"Sects and Cults in America Bibliographical Guides\", and \"Religious Information Systems Series\".\n\nHe is a contributor to academic journals such as \"Syzygy\", and \"Nova Religio\". He has also contributed chapters to various multi-authored books on new religions, and articles in many other reference works, handbooks and encyclopedias of religion. He has contributed 15 \"Micropædia\" articles, generally on religious organizations or movements: Aum Shinrikyo, Branch Davidian, Christian Science, Church Universal, Eckankar, Evangelical Church, The Family, Hare Krishna, Heaven's Gate, Jehovah's Witnesses, New Age Movement, Pentecostalism, People's Temple, Scientology, and Wicca.\n\nMelton's major emphasis has been on collating primary source data on religious groups and movements. His approach to research is shaped by his training both in church and religious history and in the phenomenology of religion. His methodology has followed that of a historian seeking primary source literature, and so he has generally made direct, personal contact with the leaders or official representatives of a church or religious group. The purpose of such contact has been to obtain the group's main religious literature to ascertain their principal teachings and practices. His inquiries also comprise, gathering membership statistics, details of the group's history and so forth. He then incorporates these details profiles that form the basis for reference texts like the \"Encyclopedia of American Religions\".\n\nMelton uses a group's religious texts as the essential mainstay for reporting about a group before then proceeding to scholarly questions and analysis about wider social, religious and historical contexts.\n\nMelton is one of the first scholars to draw a distinction between the Christian countercult and the secular anti-cult movements. In his \"Encyclopedic Handbook of Cults in America\" he articulated the distinction on the grounds that the two movements operate with very different epistemologies, motives and methods. He was urged to make this distinction in the course of a formal dialogue with evangelical sociologist Ronald Enroth and after conversations with Eric Pement of \"Cornerstone\" magazine (Chicago). This distinction has been subsequently acknowledged by sociologists such as Douglas E. Cowan and Eileen Barker.\n\nMelton is a prominent critic of both the anti-cult movement and some Christian countercult organizations. Some of Melton's criticisms concerning the secular anti-cult movement revolve around his rejection of the concept of brainwashing as an explanation of religious conversion and indoctrination. During the 1970s and 1980s he was a prominent opponent of the controversial methods of deprogramming. He argued that deprogramming violated civil liberties and the religious freedom principles guaranteed in the US Constitution and that the efficacy of deprogramming or counter-brainwashing stratagems was doubtful.\n\nMelton has argued that countercult apologists frequently misrepresent the teachings of those they critique:\nMy encounter with many Evangelical Christians who write about other religions has, to some extent, helped shape my life's work. However, over the years I have been mostly disappointed with the Christian writing in this area. Instead of attempting to understand the teachings of a group, too frequently writers only compared quotes from the group's literature with biblical passages, both often out of context. Then, as I began to visit the groups, I often encountered the anger at the church many members had because of Christian writers who had written supposedly authoritative books but who had distorted members' positions and had condemned them for believing things they had never taught ... I have always thought the church deserved better, and many years ago I committed myself to providing it with the information it needed both to live at peace with its new neighbors and to carry on its missional life with a high level of integrity.\nMelton challenges the validity of many anti-NRM sources and testimonies of former members (which he refers to as apostates) critical of their previous groups. While testifying as an expert witness in a lawsuit, Melton asserted that when investigating groups, one should not rely solely upon the unverified testimony of ex-members, and that hostile ex-members would invariably shade the truth and blow out of proportion minor incidents turning them into major incidents. Melton also follows the argumentation of Lewis Carter and David Bromley and claims that as a result of their study, the treatment (coerced or voluntary) of former members as people in need of psychological assistance largely ceased and that an (alleged) lack of widespread need for psychological help by former members of new religions would in itself be the strongest evidence refuting early sweeping condemnations of new religions as causes of psychological trauma. This view is shared by several religious scholars, and contested by others (see also \"Criticism\").\n\nIn a paper presented at the conference on \"New Age in the Old World\" held at the Institut Oecumenique de Bossey, Céligny, Switzerland, Melton presented his views on the New Age movement, stating that it led to a dramatic growth of the older occult/metaphysical community, and created a much more positive image for occultism in Western culture. He stated that the New Age movement itself had died after its promises of a new age of enlightenment failed to materialize but that the community of people it brought together has grown to be \"one of the most important minority faith communities in the West.\"\n\nFrom his college days, Melton developed an interest in the subject of vampires, which he has since pursued in his leisure time. Melton has researched the history of vampires, as well as the study of contemporary vampiric groups and rites. In 1983 he served as editor for \"Vampires Unearthed\" by Martin Riccardo, the first comprehensive bibliography of English-language vampire literature. In 1994 he completed \"The Vampire Book: An Encyclopedia of the Undead\". He has also written \"The Vampire Gallery: A Who's Who of the Undead\" and most recently \"The Vampire in Folklore, History, Literature, Film and Television: A Comprehensive Bibliography\" (2016).\n\nIn 1997, Melton, Massimo Introvigne and Elizabeth Miller organized an event at the Westin Hotel in Los Angeles where 1,500 attendees (some dressed as vampires) came for a \"creative writing contest, Gothic rock music and theatrical performances.\" In the TSD annual colloquium, \"Therapy and Magic in Bram Stoker's 'Dracula' and beyond\" held in Romania in 2004, it was announced that Melton and Introvigne would be participating in the TSD conference \"Buffy, the vampire slayer\", in Nashville, TN in 2004. Melton was identified as the \"Count Dracula Ambassador to the U.S\". Melton was the president of the American chapter (now defunct) \"The Transylvanian Society of Dracula\" (TSD), an international organization of Dracula and vampire studies scholars and researchers, (which disbanded in 2016).\n\nMelton, together with a group of scholars and the American Psychological Association, submitted on February 10, 1987 an \"amicus curiæ\" brief in a pending case before the California Supreme Court related to the Unification Church. The brief stated that hypotheses of brainwashing and coercive persuasion were uninformed speculations based on skewed data. The brief characterized the theory of brainwashing as not scientifically proven and advanced the position that \"commitment to advancing the appropriate use of psychological testimony in the courts carries with it the concomitant duty to be vigilant against those who would use purportedly expert testimony lacking scientific and methodological rigor.\"\n\nIn May 1995, in the early stages of investigations into the sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway, Melton, fellow scholar James R. Lewis and religious freedom lawyer Barry Fisher flew to Japan to voice concern that police behaviour, including mass detentions without charge and the removal of practitioners' children from the group, might be infringing the civil rights of Aum Shinrikyo members. They had travelled to Japan at the invitation and expense of Aum Shinrikyo after they had contacted the group to express concern over developments, and met with officials over a period of three days. While not having been given access to the group's chemical laboratories, they held press conferences in Japan stating their belief, based on the documentation they had been given by the group, that the group did not have the ability to produce sarin and was being scapegoated. Melton revised his judgment shortly after, concluding that the group had in fact been responsible for the attack and other crimes. Some felt that the scholars' defense of Aum Shinrikyo led to a crisis of confidence in religious scholarship when the group's culpability was proven.\n\nMelton's scholarly works concentrate on the phenomenology and not the theology of NRMs. Some Christian countercultists criticize Melton for not critiquing the groups he reports on from an evangelical perspective, arguing that his failure to do so is incompatible with his statements of professed evangelicalism. Some secular anti-cultists who feel that new religious movements are dangerous and that scholars should actively work against them have likewise criticized him. Stephen A. Kent and Theresa Krebs, for example, characterized Gordon Melton, James R. Lewis, and Anson Shupe as biased towards the groups they study. In non-scholarly writings, Melton has recommended that Christian churches should examine new religions in terms of evangelization, and he sees his work as a means to facilitate that end.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "65521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65521", "title": "Jesse Ventura", "text": "Jesse Ventura\n\nJesse Ventura (born James George Janos; July 15, 1951) is an American media personality, actor, author, former politician and retired professional wrestler, who served as the 38th Governor of Minnesota from 1999 to 2003. He was the first and only candidate of the Reform Party to win a major government position, but later joined the Green Party of the United States.\n\nVentura was a member of the U.S. Navy Underwater Demolition Team during the Vietnam War. After leaving the military, he embarked on a professional wrestling career from 1975 to 1986, taking the ring name Jesse \"The Body\" Ventura. He had a long tenure in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) as a performer and color commentator, and was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2004. In addition to wrestling, Ventura pursued an acting career, appearing in films such as \"Predator\" and \"The Running Man\" (both 1987).\n\nVentura first entered politics as Mayor of Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, from 1991 to 1995. Ventura was the Reform Party candidate in the Minnesota gubernatorial election of 1998, running a low-budget campaign centered on grassroots events and unusual ads that urged citizens not to \"vote for politics as usual\". Ventura's campaign was unexpectedly successful, with him narrowly defeating both the Democratic and Republican candidates. The highest elected official to ever win an election on a Reform Party ticket, Ventura left the Reform Party a year after taking office amid internal fights for control over the party.\n\nAs governor, Ventura oversaw reforms of Minnesota's property tax as well as the state's first sales tax rebate. Other initiatives taken under Ventura included construction of the METRO Blue Line light rail in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area, and cuts in income taxes. Ventura left office in 2003, deciding not to run for re-election. After leaving office, Ventura became a visiting fellow at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government in 2004. He has since also hosted a number of television shows and has written several political books. Ventura remains politically active and currently hosts a show on Ora TV and on RT America called \"Off the Grid\". As of September 2017, Ventura is hosting a variety news show on RT called \"The World According to Jesse\". Ventura has repeatedly floated running for President of the United States on a Green Party ticket.\n\nVentura was born James George Janos on July 15, 1951 in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the son of George William Janos and his wife, Bernice Martha (née Lenz). Both of his parents were World War II veterans. Ventura has an older brother who served in the Vietnam War. Ventura has described himself as Slovak, since his father's parents were from what is now Slovakia; his mother was of German descent. Ventura was raised as a Lutheran. Born in South Minneapolis \"by the Lake Street bridge,\" he attended Cooper Elementary School, Sanford Junior High School, and graduated from Roosevelt High School in 1969. Roosevelt High School inducted Ventura into its first hall of fame in September 2014.\n\nVentura served in the United States Navy from December 1, 1969, to September 10, 1975, during the Vietnam War, but did not see combat. He graduated in BUD/S class 58 in December 1970 and was part of Underwater Demolition Team 12.\n\nVentura has frequently referred to his military career in public statements and debates. He was criticized by hunters and conservationists for stating in an interview with the Minneapolis \"Star Tribune\" in April 2001, \"Until you have hunted men, you haven't hunted yet.\"\n\nNear the end of his service in the Navy, Ventura began to spend time with the \"South Bay\" chapter of the Mongols motorcycle club in San Diego. He would ride onto Naval Base Coronado on his Harley-Davidson wearing his Mongol colors. According to Ventura, he was a full-patch member of the club and even third-in-command of his chapter, but he never had any problems with the authorities. In the fall of 1974, Ventura left the bike club to return to the Twin Cities. Shortly after that, the Mongols entered into open warfare with their biker rivals, the Hells Angels.\n\nVentura attended North Hennepin Community College in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota in suburban Minneapolis during the mid-1970s. At the same time, he began weightlifting and wrestling. He was a bodyguard for The Rolling Stones for a time, before he entered professional wrestling and adopted the wrestling name Jesse Ventura.\n\nHe created the stage name Jesse \"The Body\" Ventura to go with the persona of a bully-ish beach bodybuilder, picking the name \"Ventura\" from a map as part of his \"bleach blond from California\" gimmick. As a wrestler, Ventura performed as a heel and often used the motto: \"Win if you can, lose if you must, but always cheat!\", even going so far as having himself a T-shirt made with the words printed on the front. Much of his flamboyant persona was adapted from Superstar Billy Graham, a charismatic and popular performer during the 1970s. Years later, as a broadcaster, Ventura made a running joke out of it claiming that Graham stole all of his ring attire ideas from him.\n\nIn 1975, Ventura made his debut in the Central States territory, before moving to the Pacific Northwest, where he wrestled for promoter Don Owen as Jesse \"The Great\" Ventura. During his stay in Portland, Oregon, he had notable feuds with Dutch Savage and Jimmy Snuka and won the Pacific Northwest Wrestling title twice (once from each wrestler) and the tag team title five times (twice each with Bull Ramos and \"Playboy\" Buddy Rose, and once with Jerry Oates). He later moved to his hometown promotion, the American Wrestling Association in Minnesota, and began teaming with Adrian Adonis as the \"East-West Connection\" in 1979. In his RF Video shoot in 2012, he revealed that shortly after he arrived in the AWA he was given the nickname \"the Body\" by Verne Gagne. The duo won the promotion's World Tag Team Championship on July 20, 1980, on a forfeit when Verne Gagne, one-half of the tag team champions along with Mad Dog Vachon, failed to show up for a title defense in Denver, Colorado. The duo held the belts for nearly a year, losing to \"The High Flyers\" (Greg Gagne and Jim Brunzell).\n\nShortly after losing the belts, the duo moved on to the World Wrestling Federation where they were managed by Freddie Blassie. Although the duo was unable to capture the World Tag Team Championship, both Adonis and Ventura became singles title contenders, each earning several title shots at World Heavyweight Champion Bob Backlund.\n\nVentura continued to wrestle until September 1984 after 3 back to back losses to world champion Hulk Hogan, when blood clots in his lungs effectively ended his in-ring career. He claimed that the blood clots were a result of his exposure to Agent Orange during his time in Vietnam. Ventura returned to the ring in 1985, forming a tag-team with Randy Savage and Savage's manager (and real-life wife) Miss Elizabeth. Often after their televised matches Ventura would taunt and challenge fellow commentator Bruno Sammartino, but nothing ever came of this.\n\nVentura participated in a six-man tag team match in December 1985 when he, Roddy Piper, and Bob Orton defeated Hillbilly Jim, Uncle Elmer, and Cousin Luke in a match which was broadcast on \"Saturday Night's Main Event\". The tag match against the Hillbillies came about after Piper and Orton interrupted Elmer's wedding ceremony on the previous edition of the show; Ventura, who later claimed that he was under instruction from fellow commentator and WWF owner Vince McMahon to \"bury them\", insulted Elmer and his wife during commentary of what was a real wedding ceremony at the Meadowlands Arena, by proclaiming when they kissed: \"It looks like two Carp in the middle of the Mississippi River going after the same piece of corn.\" According to Ventura the wedding was real, for at that time the New Jersey State Athletic Control Board would not allow the WWF to stage a fake wedding in the state of New Jersey, so Stan Frazier (Uncle Elmer) and his fiance had agreed to have a real in-ring wedding.\n\nAfter a failed comeback bid, Ventura hosted his own talk segment on the WWF's \"Superstars of Wrestling\" called \"The Body Shop\", in much the same heel style as \"Piper's Pit\", though the setting was a mock gym (when Ventura was unavailable, \"The Body Shop\" was often hosted by Don Muraco). He began to do color commentary on television for \"All-Star Wrestling\", replacing Angelo Mosca, and later \"Superstars of Wrestling\", initially alongside Vince McMahon and the semi-retired Sammartino, and then just with McMahon after Sammartino's departure from the WWF in early 1988. Ventura most notably co-hosted \"Saturday Night's Main Event\" with McMahon, the first six WrestleManias (five of which were alongside Gorilla Monsoon), and most of the WWF's pay-per-views at the time with Monsoon, with the lone exception for Ventura being the first SummerSlam, in which Ventura served as the guest referee during the main event.\n\nVentura's entertaining commentary style was an extension of his wrestling persona, i.e. a \"heel\", as he was partial to the villains, which was something new and different at the time. McMahon, who was always looking for ways of jazzing things up, came up with the idea of Ventura doing heel commentary at a time when most commentators, including McMahon himself, openly favored the fan favorites.\n\nHowever, Ventura would still occasionally give credit where it was due, praising the athleticism of fan favorites such as Ricky Steamboat and Randy Savage, who was championed by Ventura for years, even when he was a face, a point Ventura regularly made on-air to McMahon and Monsoon. Occasionally he would even acknowledge mistakes made by the heels, including those made by his personal favorites such as Savage or wrestlers managed by heels Bobby Heenan and Jimmy Hart.\n\nOne notable exception to this rule was the WrestleMania VI Ultimate Challenge title for title match between WWF Champion Hulk Hogan and the WWF Intercontinental Champion, The Ultimate Warrior. Since they were both fan favorites, Ventura took a neutral position in his commentary, even praising Hogan's display of sportsmanship at the end of the match when he handed over the WWF Championship belt to the Warrior after he lost the title, stating that Hogan was going out like a true champion. During the match, however, which was also the last match at Wrestlemania he called, Ventura did voice his pleasure when both broke the rules, at one point claiming, \"This is what I like. Let the two goody two-shoes throw the rule book out and get nasty.\" Ventura's praise of Hogan's action was unusual for him, because he regularly rooted against Hogan during his matches, usually telling fellow commentator Monsoon after Hogan had won a championship match at a Wrestlemania that he might \"come out of retirement and take this dude out\". Hogan and Ventura were at one point close friends. However, Ventura abruptly ended the friendship after he discovered, during his lawsuit against McMahon, that Hogan was the one who had told McMahon about Ventura's attempt to form a labor union in 1984. Following a dispute with McMahon over the use of his image for promoting a Sega product, while McMahon had a contract with rival company Nintendo at the time, the promoter released Ventura from the company in August 1990.\n\nVentura later served as a radio announcer for a few National Football League teams, among them the Minnesota Vikings and Tampa Bay Buccaneers.\n\nIn February 1992 at SuperBrawl II, Ventura joined World Championship Wrestling as a commentator. Ventura was ultimately released by WCW President Eric Bischoff for allegedly falling asleep during a \"WCW Worldwide\" TV taping at Disney MGM Studios in July 1994, although it has been speculated that the move may have had more to do with Hogan's arrival shortly before.\n\nIn 1987, while negotiating his contract as a WWF commentator, Ventura waived his rights to royalties on videotape sales when he was falsely told that only feature performers received such royalties. In November 1991, having discovered that other non-feature performers received royalties, Ventura brought an action for fraud, misappropriation of publicity rights, and quantum meruit in Minnesota state court against Titan Sports asking for the amount of $2 million in royalties based on a fair market value share. Titan moved the case to federal court, and Ventura won a $801,333 jury verdict on the last claim. In addition the judge awarded him $8,625 in back pay for all non video WWF merchandising featuring Ventura. The judgment was affirmed on appeal, and the case,\" \" 65 F.3d 725 (8th Cir.1995), is an important result in the law of restitution. As a result, Ventura's commentary is removed on most releases from WWE Home Video. At the time, Vince McMahon swore Ventura would never appear on any WWF program again.\n\nIn mid-1999, Ventura reappeared on WWF television during his term as Governor of Minnesota, acting as the special guest referee for main event of SummerSlam held in Minneapolis. Ventura would continue his relationship with the WWF by performing commentary for Vince McMahon's short-lived XFL. On the June 4, 2001 episode of Raw which aired live from Minnesota, Ventura appeared to overrule McMahon's authority and approve a WWF Championship match between then-champion Stone Cold Steve Austin and Chris Jericho. On the March 20, 2003 episode of \"SmackDown!,\" Ventura appeared in a taped interview to talk about the match between McMahon and Hulk Hogan at WrestleMania XIX. Less than a year later, he would be inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2004 on March 13, 2004 and the following night at WrestleMania XX, he approached the ring to interview Donald Trump, who had a front row seat at the event. Trump affirmed that Ventura would receive his moral and financial support were he to ever reenter the world of politics. Alluding to the 2008 election, Ventura boldly announced that \"In 2008, maybe we oughta put a wrestler in the White House\". On the June 11, 2007 episode of \"Raw,\" Ventura appeared to give comments about McMahon. Ventura was guest host on the November 23, 2009 episode of \"Raw,\" during which he retained his heel persona by siding with the number one contender Sheamus over WWE Champion John Cena. This happened while he confronted Cena about how it was unfair that Cena always got a title shot in the WWE, while Ventura never did during his WWE career. After that, Sheamus attacked Cena and put him through a table. Ventura then made the match a Table match at . During the show, for the first time in nearly 20 years, McMahon joined Ventura at ringside to provide match commentary together.\n\nNearing the end of his wrestling career, Ventura began an acting career. He acted in the 1987 movie \"Predator\", whose cast included future California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and future Kentucky Gubernatorial candidate Sonny Landham. Ventura became close friends with Schwarzenegger during the production of \"Predator\". He appeared in two episodes of \"Zorro\" filmed in Madrid, Spain, in 1991. He had a starring role in the 1990 sci-fi movie \"Abraxas, Guardian of the Universe\". He had supporting roles in \"The Running Man\", \"Thunderground\", \"Demolition Man\", \"Repossessed\", \"Ricochet\", \"The Master of Disguise\" (in which he steals the Liberty Bell), and \"Batman & Robin\"—the first and last of these also starring Schwarzenegger. Ventura made a cameo appearance in \"Major League II\", as \"White Lightning\". He appeared as a self-help guru (voice only) in \"The Ringer\" trying to turn Johnny Knoxville into a more confident worker. Ventura had a cameo in \"The X-Files\" episode \"Jose Chung's \"From Outer Space\"\" as a Man in Black alongside fellow 'MiB' Alex Trebek. In 2008, Ventura was in the independent comedy \"Woodshop\", starring as a high school shop teacher named Mr. Madson. The film was released September 7, 2010.\n\nJesse Ventura was a bodyguard for the Rolling Stones in the late 1970s and '80s. The Rolling Stones' Mick Jagger said of Jesse Ventura, \"He's done us proud, hasn't he? He's been fantastic.\"\n\nIn the late 80s, Ventura appeared in a series of Miller Lite commercials with Bob Uecker.\n\nIn 1989, Ventura co-hosted the four episodes of the DiC Entertainment children's program \"\" along with Gary Apple. In 1991, the pilot episode for \"Tag Team\", a television program about two ex-professional wrestlers turned police officers, starred Ventura and Roddy Piper.\n\nVentura also co-hosted the short-lived syndicated game show \"The Grudge Match\" alongside sportscaster Steve Albert.\n\nVentura played a minor role in a 1996 episode of \"The X-Files\" alongside Alex Trebek.\n\nBetween 1995 and his run for governor in 1998, Ventura had radio call-in shows on (KFAN 1130) and (KSTP 1500) in Minneapolis – Saint Paul. He also had a brief role on the television soap opera \"The Young and the Restless\" in 1999.\n\nVentura has been criticized by the press for privately profiting from his heightened popularity. He was hired as a television analyst for the failed XFL football enterprise, served as a referee at a World Wrestling Federation match, and published several books during his tenure as governor. On his weekly radio show, he often criticized the media for focusing on these deals rather than on his policy proposals.\n\nFrom 2009–2012, TruTV aired three seasons of the television series \"Conspiracy Theory with Jesse Ventura\".\n\nVentura had a guest spot on an episode of the 2012 rebooted \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" animated series on Nickelodeon.\n\nIn 2013, Ventura announced a new show, \"Jesse Ventura: Uncensored\", which launched on January 27, 2014, and is now called \"Off the Grid\", airing on Ora TV.\n\nFollowing his departure from the WWF, Ventura took advice from a former high school teacher and ran for mayor of Brooklyn Park, Minnesota in 1990. Ventura defeated the city's 25-year incumbent mayor and served from 1991 to 1995.\n\nVentura ran for Governor of Minnesota in 1998 as the nominee for the Reform Party of Minnesota (he later joined the Independence Party of Minnesota when the Reform Party broke from its association with the Reform Party of the United States of America). His campaign consisted of a combination of aggressive grassroots events organized in part by his campaign manager Doug Friedline and original television spots, designed by quirky adman Bill Hillsman, using the phrase \"Don't vote for politics as usual.\" He spent considerably less than his opponents (about $300,000) and was a pioneer in his using the Internet as a medium of reaching out to voters in a political campaign.\n\nHe won the election in November 1998, narrowly (and unexpectedly) defeating the major-party candidates, St. Paul mayor Norm Coleman (Republican) and Minnesota Attorney General Hubert H. \"Skip\" Humphrey III (Democratic-Farmer-Labor). During his victory speech, Ventura famously declared, \"We shocked the world!\" After his election, bumper stickers and T-shirts bearing the slogan \"My governor can beat up your governor\" appeared in Minnesota. The nickname \"Jesse 'The Mind (from a last-minute Hillsman ad featuring Ventura posing as Rodin's \"Thinker\") began to resurface sarcastically in reference to his frequently controversial remarks. Ventura's old stage name \"Jesse 'The Body (sometimes adapted to \"Jesse 'The Governing Body) also continued to appear with some regularity.\n\nAfter a trade mission to China in 2002, Ventura announced that he would not run for a second term, stating that he no longer felt dedicated enough to his job to run again as well as what he viewed were constant attacks on his family by the media. Ventura accused the media of hounding him and his family for personal behavior and belief while neglecting coverage of important policy issues. He later told a reporter for \"The Boston Globe\" that he would have run for a second term if he had been single, citing the media's effect on his family life.\n\nGovernor Ventura sparked media criticism when, nearing the end of his term, he suggested that he might resign from office early to allow his lieutenant governor, Mae Schunk, an opportunity to serve as governor. He further stated that he wanted her to be the state's first female governor and have her portrait painted and hung in the Capitol along with the other governors. Ventura quickly retreated from the comments, saying he was just floating an idea.\n\nIn political debates, Ventura often admitted that he had not formed an opinion on certain policy questions. Ventura frequently described himself as \"fiscally conservative and socially liberal.\" He selected teacher Mae Schunk as his running mate.\n\nLacking a party base in the Minnesota House of Representatives and Senate, Ventura's policy ambitions had little chance of being introduced as bills. Initially, the residents of Minnesota feared Ventura's vetoes would be overturned. He vetoed 45 bills in his first year, only three of which were overridden. The reputation for having his vetoes overridden comes from his fourth and final year, where six of his nine vetoes were overturned. Nevertheless, Ventura was still successful in several initiatives. One of the most notable was the rebate on sales tax. In each year of his administration, Minnesotans received a tax-free check in the late summer. The state was running a budget surplus at the time, and Ventura believed that the money should be returned to the public.\n\nLater, he came to support a unicameral (one-house) legislature, property tax reform, gay rights, and abortion rights. While funding public school education generously, he opposed the teachers' union, and did not have a high regard for the public funding of higher education institutions. Additionally, Ventura supported the use of medicinal marijuana, advocated a higher role for third parties in national politics, and favored the concept of instant-runoff voting. He also opposed the death penalty.\n\nIn an interview on \"The Howard Stern Show\", he reaffirmed his support of gay rights, including in marriage and military service, humorously stating he would have gladly served alongside homosexuals when he was in the Navy as they would have provided less competition for women. (Later, on the subject of a 2012 referendum on amending the Minnesota constitution to limit marriage to male-female couples, Ventura elaborated \"I certainly hope that people don't amend our constitution to stop gay marriage because, number one, the constitution is there to protect people – not oppress them\", and went on to relate a story from his pro wrestling days of a friend who was denied hospital visitation to his same-sex partner.)\n\nVentura was elected on a Reform party ticket, but he never received support from Ross Perot's Texas faction. When the Reform party was taken over by Pat Buchanan supporters before the presidential elections of 2000, Ventura left the party in February 2000, referring to it as \"hopelessly dysfunctional\". However, he maintained close ties to the Independence Party of Minnesota, which also broke from the Reform party around the same time.\n\nDuring the first part of his administration, Ventura strongly advocated for land-use reform and substantial mass transit improvements, such as light rail. He made the light rail project a priority, obtaining additional funding from the Minnesota state legislature to keep the project moving. The METRO Blue Line was completed in 2004.\n\nDuring another trade mission to Cuba in the summer of 2002, he denounced the United States embargo against Cuba, stating that the embargo affected the Cuban public more than it did its government.\n\nIn his book \"Independent Nation\", political analyst John Avlon describes Ventura as a radical centrist thinker and activist.\n\nVentura, who ran on a Reform Party ticket and advocated for a greater role for third parties in American politics, is highly critical of both Democrats and Republicans. Ventura described both parties as \"monsters that are out of control\" who are concerned only with \"their own agendas and their pork.\"\n\nHe has been a supporter of third parties as governor and voted for Ralph Nader in 2000 and 2008, although he did vote for John Kerry in the 2004 presidential election. He then expressed a potential 2020 presidential candidacy with the Green Party of the United States.\n\nVentura greatly disapproved of some of the actions that took place at the 2002 memorial for Senator Paul Wellstone, his family, and others who died in a plane crash on October 25, 2002. Ventura said, \"I feel used. I feel violated and duped over the fact that the memorial ceremony turned into a political rally\". He left halfway through the controversial speech made by Wellstone's best friend, Rick Kahn. Ventura had initially planned to appoint a Democrat to Wellstone's seat, but he instead appointed Dean Barkley to represent Minnesota in the Senate until Wellstone's term expired in January 2003. Barkley was succeeded by Norm Coleman, who won the seat against Walter Mondale, who became the Democratic candidate replacement a few days before the election.\n\nAfter the legislature refused to increase spending for security, Ventura attracted criticism when he decided not to live in the governor's mansion during his tenure, choosing instead to shut it down and stay at his home in Maple Grove. Critics pointed to the loss of jobs for several working-class people at the mansion and the extra cost of reopening the mansion later.\n\nIn 1999, a group of disgruntled citizens petitioned to recall Governor Ventura, alleging, among other things, that \"the use of state security personnel to protect the governor on a book promotion tour constituted illegal use of state property for personal gain.\" The petition was denied. The proposed petition was dismissed by order of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Minnesota. Under Minnesota law, a proposed petition for recall is required to be reviewed by the Chief Justice for legal sufficiency, and, upon such review, the Chief Justice determined that it did not allege the commission of any act that violated Minnesota law. Ventura sought attorney’s fees as a sanction for the filing of a frivolous petition for recall, but that request was denied, on the ground that there was no statutory authority for such an award.\n\nIn November 2011, Ventura held a press conference in relation to a lawsuit he had filed against the Transportation Security Administration. During that press conference, Ventura stated that he would \"never stand for a national anthem again, I will turn my back and raise a fist the same way Tommy Smith and John Carlos did in the ’68 Olympics, Jesse Ventura will do that today.\"\n\nDuring his tenure as governor, Ventura drew frequent fire from the press in the Twin Cities. He referred to reporters as \"media jackals,\" a term that even appeared on the press passes required to enter the governor's press area. Shortly after Ventura's election as governor, author and humorist Garrison Keillor wrote a satirical book about the event, spoofing Ventura as \"Jimmy (Big Boy) Valente,\" a self-aggrandizing former \"Navy W.A.L.R.U.S. (Water Air Land Rising Up Suddenly)\" turned professional wrestler turned politician. Initially, Ventura responded angrily to the satire, but later, in a conciliatory vein, said that Keillor \"makes Minnesota proud\". During his term, Ventura appeared on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", in which he responded controversially to the following question: \"So which is the better city of the Twin Cities, Minneapolis or St. Paul?\". Ventura responded, \"Minneapolis. Those streets in St. Paul must have been designed by drunken Irishmen\". He later apologized for the remark, adding that it was not intended to be taken seriously.\n\nWhile Ventura has not held public office since the end of his term as governor in 2003, he has remained politically active and has occasionally hinted at intentions of possibly running again for political office. In an interview on CNN's \"The Situation Room\" on April 7, 2008, Ventura said that he was considering entering the race for the United States Senate seat then held by Norm Coleman, his Republican opponent in the 1998 Gubernatorial race. A poll commissioned by Twin Cities station Fox 9 put him at 24 percent, behind Democratic candidate Al Franken at 32 percent and Norm Coleman at 39 percent in a hypothetical three-way race. However, Ventura announced on \"Larry King Live\" on July 14, 2008, that he would not run; Ventura's decision not to join the race was partly rooted from a fear of a potential lack of privacy for his family, a concern that contributed to his refusal to seek a second term as governor. Franken ended up winning the election.\n\nIn his 1999 autobiography, \"I Ain't Got Time to Bleed\", Ventura suggested he did not plan on running for President of the United States but did not rule out such an idea. In 2003, he again expressed interest in running for President while accepting an award from the International Wrestling Institute and Museum in Newton, Iowa. He spoke at Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul's \"Rally for the Republic\", organized by the Campaign for Liberty, on September 2, 2008. At the event, Ventura implied a possible future run at the U.S. Presidency. At the end of his speech, Ventura announced before a live audience that if he saw that the public was willing to see a change in the direction of the country, then \"in 2012 we'll give them a race they'll never forget!\" In 2011, Ventura expressed interest in running with Ron Paul for the 2012 presidential elections if the latter decided to run as an independent. On November 4, 2011, Ventura said at a press conference about the dismissal of his court case against the Transportation Security Administration for what he claims are illegal searches of air travelers, that he was \"thinking about\" running for president. There had been reports that officials from the Libertarian Party have tried to persuade Ventura to run for the presidency on a Libertarian ticket although the party chairman Mark Hinkle said, \"Jesse is more interested in 2016 than he is in 2012. But I think he's serious. If Ron Paul ran as a Libertarian, I think he definitely would be interested in running as a vice presidential candidate. He's thinking, ‘If I run as the vice presidential candidate under Ron Paul in 2012, I could run as a presidential candidate in 2016.\"\n\nDavid Gewirtz of ZDNet wrote in a November 2011 article that he thinks Ventura would have a chance at winning, if he declared his intention to run at that point and ran a serious campaign, but that it would be a long shot.\n\nIn late 2015, Ventura publicly flirted with the idea of running for president in 2016 as a Libertarian but in May 2016, Ventura decided not to seek the presidency, allowing his self determined deadline of May 1 to pass. No explanation was given, but he expressed support for Libertarian Gary Johnson. He eventually voted for Jill Stein.\n\nIn Spring of 2018, Ventura expressed interest in running for president once again, but said he would only do so under the Green Party banner. On November 28, 2018, Ventura again said that he was considering running for president in 2020 saying \"The [Green Party] has shown some interest. I haven't made a decision yet because it's a long time off. If I do do it, Trump will not have a chance. For one, Trump knows wrestling. He participated in two Wrestlemanias. He knows he can never out-talk a wrestler, and he knows I'm the greatest talker wrestling's ever had.\"\n\n\nVentura was succeeded in his office on January 6, 2003, by Republican Tim Pawlenty. He began a weekly cable television show in October 2003, on MSNBC called Jesse Ventura's America; the show was short-lived and ended only a couple of months after it began.\n\nIn 2004, Harvard graduate student and fellow Navy veteran Christopher Mora promoted the idea that the academic establishment had failed to reach out to citizens experienced in public service, but who did not fit the traditional idea of a politician. He successfully lobbied for the selection of Ventura, who started teaching a study group at Harvard University for the Spring 2004 semester as a visiting fellow at the Kennedy School of Government's Institute of Politics (IOP). His 90-minute study group focused on third party politics, campaign finance, the war on drugs, and other relevant political issues. Ventura scheduled multiple famous friends to appear for his seminars including Dean Barkley and Richard Marcinko.\n\nOn October 22, 2004, with Ventura by his side, former Governor of Maine Angus King endorsed John Kerry for president at the Minnesota state capitol building. Ventura did not speak at the press conference. When prodded for a statement, King responded, \"He plans to vote for John Kerry, but he doesn't want to make a statement and subject himself to the tender mercies of the Minnesota press\". In the 2012 Senate elections, Ventura endorsed King in his campaign for the open Senate seat in Maine, in which King won.\n\nIn November 2004, an advertisement began airing in California featuring Ventura. In it, Ventura voiced his opposition to then-Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger's policies regarding Native American casinos. Ventura served as an advisory board member for a group called Operation Truth, a non-profit organization set up \"to give voice to troops who served in Iraq.\" \"The current use of the National Guard is wrong...These are men who did not sign up to go occupy foreign nations\".\n\nIn August 2005, Ventura became the spokesperson for BetUS, an online sportsbook. In 2005, Ventura repeatedly discussed leaving the United States. In September 2005, Ventura announced on \"The Mike Malloy Show\" that he was leaving the U.S. and planned to \"have an adventure\". In late October 2005, he went on \"The Big Idea with Donny Deutsch\" and reiterated that he was leaving the United States and moving to Mexico due to, among other things, censorship.\n\nIn September 2006, Ventura endorsed and campaigned with independent Texas gubernatorial candidate Kinky Friedman, and Independence Party of Minnesota's gubernatorial candidate Peter Hutchinson and Team Minnesota.\n\nOn December 29, 2011, Ventura announced his support for Ron Paul on the \"Alex Jones Show\" for the 2012 presidential election as \"the only anti-war candidate.\" Like Paul, Ventura is known for supporting a more non-interventionist foreign policy. However, after Mitt Romney became the presumptive nominee for the Republican party presidential candidate in May 2012, Ventura gave his support to Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson on June 12, 2012, whom Ventura argued was the choice for voters who \"really want to rebel.\"\n\nIn September 2012, Ventura and his wife appeared in an advertisement calling for voters to reject a referendum to be held in Minnesota during the November elections that would ban same-sex marriages in the state. The referendum was defeated.\n\nIn 2017, on his RT America program \"The World According To Jesse\" he expressed a potential presidential run with the Green Party of the United States in 2020.\n\nIn a May 11, 2009, interview with Larry King, Ventura twice stated that George W. Bush was the worst president of his lifetime, adding \"President Obama inherited something I wouldn't wish on my worst enemy. You know? Two wars, an economy that's borderline depression.\" On the issue of waterboarding, Ventura added:\n\nIn a brief interview with Alex Jones in September 2006, Ventura began expressing doubts regarding the events behind the September 11 attacks. Ventura expressed concern over NORAD's response to the four commercial airliners that were hijacked and compared it to the response to the plane crash that killed professional golfer Payne Stewart in 1999, in which fighter jets were scrambled to intercept Stewart's jet.\n\nIn April and May 2008, Jesse Ventura, in several radio interviews for his new book, \"Don't Start the Revolution Without Me\", reiterated his concerns about what he described as some of the unanswered questions about 9/11. His remarks about the possibility that the World Trade Center was demolished with explosives were also repeated in newspaper and television stories following some of the interviews.\n\nOn May 18, 2009, when asked by Sean Hannity of Fox News, how George W. Bush could have avoided the attacks of September 11, 2001, Ventura answered, \"And there it is again, you pay attention to memos on August 6th that tell you exactly what bin Laden's gonna do.\"\n\nOn April 9, 2011, when Piers Morgan from CNN asked Ventura what his official view on the events of 9/11 was, Ventura said, \"My theory of 9/11 is that we certainly – at the best we knew it was going to happen. They allowed it to happen to further their agenda in the Middle East and go to these wars.\"\n\nIn December 2009, Ventura hosted TruTV's new show \"Conspiracy Theory with Jesse Ventura\". \"Ventura will hunt down answers, plunging viewers into a world of secret meetings, midnight surveillance, shifty characters and dark forces,\" truTV said in a statement. On the program, Ventura travelled the country, investigating cases and getting input from believers and skeptics before passing judgment on a theory's validity. According to TruTV, the first episode drew 1.6 million viewers, a record for a new series on the network.\n\nThe first season was followed by a second season that aired in 2010, and a third season that aired in 2012. After three seasons, the show was discontinued in 2013, but (as of 2017) is still shown worldwide on satellite TV.\n\nDuring his time as governor, Ventura wrote a number of politically themed books. He continued to write several other books after leaving office. In April 2008, a book authored by Ventura, titled \"Don't Start the Revolution Without Me\", was released. In it, Ventura describes a hypothetical campaign in which he is a candidate for President of the United States in 2008, running as an independent. In an interview with the Associated Press at the time of the book's release, however, Ventura denied any plans for a presidential bid, stating that the scenario is only imaginary and not indicative of a \"secret plan to run\". On MinnPost.com, Ventura's agent, Steve Schwartz, described the book thus: \"[Ventura is revealing] why he left politics and discussing the disastrous war in Iraq, why he sees our two-party system as corrupt, and what Fidel Castro told him about who was really behind the assassination of President Kennedy.\"\n\n\"American Conspiracies\" is a book Ventura wrote with Dick Russell, published by Skyhorse Publishing in 2010 which discusses conspiracy theories related to several notable events in United States history.\n\n\"63 Documents the Government Doesn't Want You to Read\" was written by Ventura with Dick Russell and published in 2011. The book describes documents that Ventura claims the government does not want the public to be informed of, although he stated the documents were not stolen and were only in the public domain.\n\nVentura also wrote \"DemoCRIPS and ReBLOODlicans: No More Gangs in Government\", which was released in 2012. The book expresses Ventura's opposition to the two-party system and calls for political parties to be abolished.\n\nVentura authored the 2013 book \"They Killed Our President: 63 Reasons to Believe There Was a Conspiracy to Assassinate JFK\", the release of which coincided with the 50th anniversary of President John F. Kennedy's assassination.\n\nIn 2016 \"Jesse Ventura's Marijuana Manifesto\" was published, making the case for the legalization of cannabis and detailing the various special interests that benefit from keeping cannabis illegal.\n\nIn January 2011, Ventura filed a lawsuit against the Transportation Security Administration, seeking a declaration that the agency's new controversial pat-down policy violated citizens' Fourth Amendment rights and an injunction to bar the TSA from subjecting him to the pat-down procedures. Ventura received a titanium hip replacement in 2008 that sets off metal detectors at airport security checkpoints.\n\nThe U.S. district court dismissed the suit for lack of jurisdiction in November 2011, ruling that \"challenges to TSA orders, policies and procedures\" must be brought only in the U.S. courts of appeals. After the court's ruling, Ventura held a press conference in which he disparaged the federal judges as \"cowards\"; said he no longer felt patriotic and would henceforth refer to the U.S. as \"Fascist States of America\"; said that he would never take commercial flights again; said that he would seek dual citizenship in Mexico; and said that would \"never stand for a national anthem again\" and would instead raise a fist.\n\nOn July 31, 2014, Ventura launched a weekly podcast distributed by Adam Carolla's \"Carolla Digital\" called \"We The People\". Guests have included Larry King, Roddy Piper, Donald Trump, and leaders of the 9/11 Truth movement. The podcast ran until March 4, 2015.\n\nIn the 2016 election, Ventura endorsed former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson, the nominee of the Libertarian Party, stating \"Johnson is a very viable alternative... This is the year for a third party candidate to rise, if there ever was one.\" He later switched his support to and voted the Green Party's candidate, Jill Stein.\n\nBill Salisbury, an attorney in San Diego and a former Navy SEAL officer, has accused Ventura of \"pretending\" to be a SEAL. He wrote that Ventura would be blurring an important distinction by claiming to be a SEAL when he was actually a frogman with the UDT. Compared to SEAL teams, UDTs saw less combat and took fewer casualties.\n\nSalisbury described Ventura's Navy training thus:[Ventura] took a screening test at boot camp to qualify for...Basic Underwater Demolition/SEAL (BUD/S) training...Those who completed BUD/S, when [Ventura] was in training, were sent to either a SEAL or an underwater demolition team. Graduation did not, however, authorize the trainee to call himself a SEAL or a UDT frogman. He had to first successfully complete a six-month probationary period in the Teams.Ventura underwent BUD/S training and was assigned to a UDT team. Ventura received the NEC 5321/22 UDT designation given after six month probationary period completed with Underwater Demolition Team 12. He was never granted the Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) 5326 Combatant Swimmer (SEAL) designation which required a six month probationary period with SEAL TEAM ONE or TWO. In 1983, eight years after Ventura left the Navy, the UDTs were disbanded and those operators were retrained and re-tasked as SEALs.\n\nResponding to the controversy, Governor Ventura's office confirmed that Ventura was a member of the UDT. His spokesman stated that Ventura has never tried to convince people otherwise. Ventura stated, \"Today we refer to all of us as SEALs, that's all it is\", and dismissed the accusations of lying about being a SEAL as \"much ado about nothing\".\n\nFormer Navy SEAL Brandon Webb, the editor of the website SOFREP.com, wrote a column on the site in which he stated, \"Jesse Ventura graduated with Basic Underwater Demolition Class 58 and, like it or not, he earned his status.\" He disagreed with the argument that Ventura was a UDT and not a SEAL, by stating \"try telling that to a WWII UDT veteran who swam ashore before the landing craft on D-Day.\" He expressed the opinion that \"the UDTs and SEALs are essentially one and the same. It's why the UDT is still part of the training acronym BUD/S.\"\n\nOn January 4, 2012, Chris Kyle, a former U.S. Navy SEAL, promoted his recently released book \"American Sniper\" on the Opie and Anthony Show. When Kyle was on the \"Opie and Anthony Show\", a listener called in and asked about how Kyle allegedly punched Ventura in a bar fight. Show host Gregg 'Opie' Hughes asked Kyle about the rumor. Kyle claimed that he punched Ventura in the face at a bar in Coronado, California which was popular with Navy SEAL personnel. According to Kyle, he did this because Ventura loudly expressed criticism of the Iraq War back in 2006 during a wake for Michael A. Monsoor, a Navy SEAL who had been killed in action in Iraq the same year, and who would posthumously receive the Medal of Honor in 2008. Kyle indicated that Ventura, who was present in San Diego to give a speech to a graduating BUD/S class, was \"letting it be known he did not agree\" with the war in Iraq, and was \"bad-mouthing the war, bad-mouthing (former President) Bush, bad-mouthing America.\"\n\nAlthough Kyle, who wrote about the alleged incident in his book but did not mention Ventura by name, said he approached Ventura and asked him to tone down his voice because the families of SEAL personnel were present, Ventura allegedly said to Kyle that the SEALs \"deserved to lose a few guys.\" Kyle said he responded by punching Ventura. Ventura himself has denied this instance.\n\nFollowing these interviews, radio host Alex Jones interviewed Ventura on January 8 regarding what happened. During the interview, Ventura denied the rumors, saying he never met Kyle nor had he heard of him before. Ventura argued that had the confrontation occurred, Kyle would be admitting to assault and that the incident would have become known across the Navy SEAL community, as Ventura had been a member of the UDT/SEALs community. Ventura also stated that the bar, known as McP's, was owned by a former Navy SEAL who was his cadre instructor when in the military, and that he would not misbehave at the bar.\n\nVentura, reiterating that the incident did not happen, posted a comment on his official Facebook page saying the following:\n\nVentura filed a defamation suit against Kyle in January 2012. Ventura initially considered dropping the lawsuit, but said several retired Navy SEALs (including the owner of McP's) demanded that Ventura continue his lawsuit, which Ventura did after Kyle failed to agree on a settlement in which he would state that the incident never happened. In a motion filed by Kyle's attorney in August 2012 to dismiss two of the suit's three counts, declarations by five former SEALs and the mothers of two others supported Kyle's account. However, in a motion filed by Ventura, Bill DeWitt, a close friend of Ventura and former SEAL who was present with him at the bar, suggested that Ventura interacted with a few SEALs but was involved in no confrontation with Kyle, and said that Kyle's claims were false. DeWitt's wife also said she never witnessed any fight between Kyle and Ventura.\n\nAlthough the lawsuit was ongoing as of 2013, Kyle was murdered in an unrelated incident on February 2, 2013. In May 2013, Ventura substituted Taya Kyle, as executor of Chris Kyle's estate, as the defendant, with his lawyers arguing that \"it would be unjust to permit the estate to continue to profit from Kyle’s wrongful conduct and to leave Governor Ventura without redress for ongoing damage to his reputation.\"\n\nThe jury trial started on July 8, 2014. Testimony and arguments were heard until July 22, 2014. On July 29, 2014, after a three-week trial in Federal Court in Saint Paul, Minnesota, including six days of jury deliberations, and upon the agreement of both plaintiff and defendant to accept a divided jury verdict, the jury arrived at an 8 to 2 divided verdict in favor of the plaintiff, and awarded Ventura $1.8 million: $500,000 for defamation and $1,345,477.25 for unjust enrichment.\n\nOn August 7, 2014, U.S. District Judge Richard H. Kyle (no relation to Chris Kyle) upheld the jury's award of $500,000 in defamation damages and adopted the jury's advisory award of $1,345,477.25 in unjust enrichment as, \"reasonable and supported by a preponderance of the evidence.\" Attorneys for Kyle's estate said that the defamation damages would be covered by HarperCollins' libel insurance. The unjust enrichment award was not covered by insurance and must be paid from Kyle's estate assets. Following the verdict, HarperCollins announced that it would pull the sub-chapter \"Punching out Scruff Face\" from all future editions of the book.\n\nIn a post-trial interview, one juror said that the defense provided a confusing checklist of events, \"e.g.\", that there were multiple locations of where the alleged punch occurred from the defense witnesses and that the defense witnesses were under the influence of alcohol at the time the alleged fight occurred. The juror also stated that Kyle's using a pseudonym for Ventura in the book was to keep it \"under wraps\" and that, if it were true, then the juror thought Kyle should have used Ventura's name. Additionally, the juror found it compelling from photographs in the days after the alleged punch that Kyle, who was over 6 feet tall, over 200 pounds and in top physical shape, could punch Ventura, who was on blood-thinners, knock him to the ground, and not leave a facial mark.\n\nOn September 4, 2014, attorneys for Taya Kyle, as executor of the Estate of Chris Kyle, filed a motion for judgment as a matter of law or a new trial with the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota. On September 26, 2014, attorneys for Ventura filed their reply to motions from Kyle's estate, that Ventura had proven Kyle's story was \"materially false\", that there was sufficient evidence for the jury to find actual malice and that there should not be a new trial. Attorneys for Taya Kyle on October 3, 2014 filed a reply to Ventura's response to the motions. This motion had to be ruled on before an appeal to the U.S. 8th Circuit Court of Appeals can be filed. On November 25, 2014, in a 24-page order, Judge Kyle denied all of the motions from the Estate of Chris Kyle, writing that \"[a]t bottom, the Court concludes Defendant received a fair trial and that the jury’s verdicts were supported by substantial evidence. Defendant is obviously disappointed in those verdicts, but her disappointment does not lay a foundation for a new trial or for judgment as a matter of law. Having found all of Defendant’s arguments wanting, and based on all the files, records, and proceedings herein, IT IS ORDERED that Defendant’s Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law or New Trial (Doc. No. 404) is DENIED.\" On December 23, 2014, attorneys for Taya Kyle, as executor of Chris Kyle's estate, filed notice of intent to appeal the district court's opinion to the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. On October 20, 2015, the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals heard oral arguments. On June 13, 2016, the appeals court vacated and reversed the unjust-enrichment judgment, and vacated and remanded the defamation judgment for a new trial. On November 1, 2016, Ventura's attorney David Olsen filed a motion to appeal the Appeals Court ruling to the US Supreme Court. On January 9, 2017, the US Supreme Court rejected this motion.\n\nOn December 16, 2014, attorneys for Ventura filed a lawsuit against HarperCollins regarding the book \"American Sniper\". Ventura’s new lawsuit claims that publicity created by Chris Kyle’s telling of the alleged incident \"increased sales\" and generated \"millions of dollars for HarperCollins.\"\n\nOn June 16, 2015, attorneys for Ventura filed a lawsuit against Taya Kyle, Case # 2:2015mc00206 in the California Central District Court. The nature of the lawsuit is, \"Other Statutory Actions\".\n\nOn July 18, 1975, three days after his twenty-fourth birthday, Ventura married his wife Terry. The couple has two children: a son, Tyrel, who is a film and television director and producer, and a daughter, Jade. With the exception of the first two WrestleManias, Ventura would always say hello to \"Terry, Tyrel and Jade back in Minneapolis\" during his commentary of the annual event. Tyrel also had the honor of inducting his father into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2004. Tyrel also worked on \"Conspiracy Theory with Jesse Ventura\" and was an investigator in the show's third season.\n\nVentura and his wife split their time living in both Minnesota and Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. Regarding his life in Mexico, Ventura said, \"I live one hour from pavement and one hour from electricity...\" \"I drive down and back every year and it's truly an adventure to live down there where I do, because I'm off the grid...\" \"I have electricity but it's all solar. I'm completely solar-powered down there. And it makes you pay more attention. It makes you turn the lights off when you're not using them.\"\n\nDuring his wrestling days, Ventura used anabolic steroids. He admitted this after retiring from competition, and went on to make public service announcements and appear in printed ads and on posters warning young people about the potential dangers and potential health risks of abusing steroids.\n\nIn 2002, Ventura was hospitalized for a severe blood clot in his lungs, the same kind of injury that ended his wrestling career.\n\nIn 1999, Ventura said in an interview on NBC News that he considered himself to be a Christian but did not believe he needs a church to attend. In a \"Playboy\" interview, Ventura said, \"Organized religion is a sham and a crutch for weak-minded people who need strength in numbers. It tells people to go out and stick their noses in other people's business. I live by the golden rule: Treat others as you'd want them to treat you. The religious right wants to tell people how to live.\" In his 1999 best-selling memoir \"I Ain't Got Time to Bleed\", Ventura responded to the controversy sparked by these remarks by elaborating on his views concerning religion:\n\nIn April 2011, Ventura said on \"The Howard Stern Show\" that he is an atheist and believes that his beliefs could disqualify him for office in the future, arguing that, \"I don't believe you can be an atheist and admit it and get elected in our country.\" In an earlier interview with CNN in October 2010, Ventura denounced religion as the \"root of all evil\", remarking that \"you notice every war is fought over religion.\" Ventura also said in 2012 that he was baptized a Lutheran.\n\nAlthough a staunch critic of religion, Ventura is a supporter of religious freedom. As governor, he endorsed equal rights for religious minorities, as well as people who do not believe in God, by declaring July 4, 2002, \"Indivisible Day\". Ventura inadvertently proclaimed October 13–19, 2002 as \"Christian Heritage Week\" in Minnesota.\n\n\n\nGeneral\n\n"}
{"id": "40764399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40764399", "title": "Kamber Darbar", "text": "Kamber Darbar\n\nThe Kamber Darbar was founded in 1887. The darbar primarily houses the Samadhis of our Gurus, Sai Vilayatrai, Sai Jiwatsingh, and Sai Vishindas, in a very serene and peaceful environment.\n\nIts purpose is JAP' (chanting) of \"OM\"; to live life as per Guru’s expectations; selfless Shewa (service) of others and to imbibe humility, love and care for all and kindness.\n\nSome \"Bhagats\"(group of singers) came and voluntarily gave programme of the Darbar in Kambar in 1887 during Diwali Mela. From then on Sain Jiwat Singh concluded this to be the wish of Guru Wali Vilayvat rai and started to organise Mela during Diwali every year and all the devotees congregate and get the blessings of the Darbar Sahib during Diwali Mela.This tradition is still being continued.\n"}
{"id": "25341660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25341660", "title": "Kasuga-zukuri", "text": "Kasuga-zukuri\n\nSupporting structures are painted vermilion, while the plank walls are white. It has a structure, that is, the building has its main entrance on the gabled side.\n\nThe roof is gabled (), decorated with purely ornamental poles called \"chigi\" (vertical) or \"katsuogi\" (horizontal), and covered with cypress bark.\n\nAfter the \"nagare-zukuri\" style, this is the most common Shinto shrine style. While the first is common all over Japan, however, shrines with a \"kasuga-zukuri\" \"honden\" are found mostly in the Kansai region around Nara.\nIf a diagonal rafter (a ) is added to support the portico, the style is called .\n\nWhile superficially completely different, the \"kasuga-zukuri\" actually shares an ancestry with the most popular style in Japan, the \"nagare-zukuri\".\n\nThe two for example share pillars set over a double-cross-shaped foundation and a roof which extends over the main entrance, covering a veranda. (The Kasuga-zukuri is the only \"tsumairi\" style to possess this last feature.) The foundation's configuration is typical not of permanent, but of temporary shrines, built to be periodically moved. This shows that, for example, both the \"nagare-zukuri\" Kamo Shrine and Kasuga Taisha used to be dedicated to a mountain cult, and that they had to be moved to follow the movements of the \"kami\". \n\nThe styles also both have a veranda in front of the main entrance, a detail which makes it likely they both evolved from a simple gabled roof.\n"}
{"id": "1526718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1526718", "title": "Kayastha", "text": "Kayastha\n\nKayastha (also referred to as Kayasth or Kayeth) is a group consisting of a cluster of several different castes (or sub-groups) of different origin from the Indian subcontinent. Kayasthas have traditionally acted as scribes, keepers of public records and accounts, and administrators of the state.\n\nSince as early as the dawn of Medieval India, Kayasthas have occupied the highest government offices, serving as ministers and advisors of the middle kingdoms of India and the Mughal Empire, and holding important administrative positions during the British Raj.\n\nIn modern times, Kayasthas have attained success in politics, as well as in the arts and various professional fields.\n\nKayasthas are not a cohesive, uniform group. They have different varna origins based on the region and consequently different social and ritual status. Even in the same region, such as parts of north and western India, different groups have different ritual status. There are several groups of Kayasthas - a larger group of northern India who claim descent from the sons of Chitragupta. Bengali Kayasthas are considered an offshoot of the former group, claiming lineage from migrants to Bengal from the ancient city of Kannauj who came at the request of Sena Dynasty kings in the 10th century. They are called 'Chitraguptavanshi' as they claim descent from Chitragupta. A smaller group found in Maharashtra claims descent from a Kshatriya warrior named Chandra Sen and this is not considered part of the Chitragupta group. There are also other groups like Bhimani and Panchob.\n\nAccording to the ancient Indian texts known as the \"Puranas\", \"Chitraguptavanshi\" Kayasthas are descended from the Hindu god Chitragupta, who is responsible for recording the deeds of humanity, upholding the rule of law, and judging whether human beings go to heaven or hell upon death. From Chitragupta, 12 subcastes of the north Indian chitragupta kayasthas were formed: Srivastava, Gaur, Saxena, Mathur,\nKaran , Nigam , Bhatnagar, Ambashtha, Asthana, Kulshreshtha, Valmiki Kayastha and Surajdhwaj Kayastha. There are several theories of their origin. According to an article in India Today, Brahmanical religious texts refer to these \"chitraguptavanshi\" Kayasthas as a caste of scribes, recruited in the beginning from the Brahmin, Kshatriya and Vaishya castes, but eventually forming distinct subcastes in northern and western India. They have therefore also been mentioned as a \"mixed caste\", combining Brahman-Shudra (lower caste) and sometimes Kshatriya as well.\n\nIn eastern India, Bengali Kayasthas are believed to have evolved from a class of officials into a caste between the 5th/6th centuries and 11th/12th centuries, its component elements being putative Kshatriyas and mostly Brahmins, and likely obtained the aspect of a caste under the Sena dynasty. According to Tej Ram Sharma, an Indian historian, the Kayasthas of Bengal had not yet developed into a distinct caste during the reign of the Gupta Empire, although the office of the Kayastha (scribe) had been instituted before the beginning of the period, as evidenced from the contemporary \"Smritis\". Sharma further states:\n\nIn Maharashtra, the tiny community of Chandraseniya Kayastha Prabhu (or CKP) claim descent from the warrior Chandrasen. As per Brahminical opinions and texts, they arose solely from the Kshatriya varna. Historically, they produced prominent warriors and also held positions such as Deshpandes and Gadkaris (fort holder, an office similar to that of a castellan). However, they also studied the Vedas and performed Vedic rituals i.e. 'vedokta'(in marathi).\nBrahmanical texts i.e shastras refer to them as \"Chandraseniya Kshatriyas\". This as well as their 'vedokta' has been formally ratified by the verdicts of the Brahmin councils of Pune and Varanasi, by Bajirao II and finally the Shankaracharya himself. They are considered socially proximate to the Marathi Brahmin community.They have not been discussed on this page any further.\n\nOnly the \"chitraguptavanshi\" kayasthas have been discussed on this page.\n\nBrahmanical religious texts refer to the Chitraguptavanshi Kayasthas as a caste responsible for writing secular documents and maintaining records from the 7th century onward.\n\nAccording to the historical chronicle known as the \"Rajatarangini\" (\"River of Kings\"), written by Kalhana in the 12th century, Kashmiri Kayasthas served as prime ministers and treasury officials under several Kashmiri kings.\n\nPrior to the 13th century, during the rule of Hindu kings, Bengali Kayasthas dominated public service and had a near-monopoly on appointments to government positions.\n\nAccording to Abu'l-Fazl ibn Mubarak, Emperor Akbar's prime minister, Bengali Kayasthas were rulers of the Pala Empire, one of the major early medieval Indian kingdoms that originated in Bengal.\n\nIn Bengal, during the reign of the Gupta Empire beginning in the 4th century, when systematic and large-scale colonization by Indo-Aryan Kayasthas and Brahmins first took place, Kayasthas were brought over by the Guptas to help manage the affairs of state.\n\nAfter the Muslim conquest of India, they mastered Persian, which became the official language of the Mughal courts. Some converted to Islam and formed the Muslim Kayasth community in northern India.\n\nOne of the most notable north-Indian Kayasthas of the Mughal period was Raja Todar Mal, Emperor Akbar's finance minister and one of the court's nine \"Navaratnas\", who is credited with establishing the Mughal revenue system. He also translated the \"Bhagavata Purana\" from Sanskrit into Persian.\n\nBengali Kayasthas had been the dominant landholding caste prior to the Muslim conquest, and continued this role under Muslim rule. Indeed, Muslim rulers had from a very early time confirmed the Kayasthas in their ancient role as landholders and political intermediaries.\n\nBengali Kayasthas served as governors, prime ministers and treasury officials under Mughal rule.\n\nAs a result of their exalted status amongst Muslim sultans, many Bengali Kayasthas became zamindars and jagirdars. According to Abu al-Fazl, most of the Hindu zamindars in Bengal were Kayasthas.\n\nMaharaja Pratapaditya, the King of Jessore who declared independence from Mughal rule in the early 17th century, was a Bengali Kayastha.\n\nDuring the British Raj, Kayasthas continued to proliferate in public administration, qualifying for the highest executive and judicial offices open to Indians.\n\nBengali Kayasthas took on the role occupied by merchant castes in other parts of India and profited from business contacts with the British. In 1911, for example, Bengali Kayasthas and Bengali Brahmins owned 40% of all the Indian-owned mills, mines and factories in Bengal.\n\nSome of the significant figures of the Indian independence movement were Bengali Kayasthas, including the spiritual leaders Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo, and the revolutionary leader Subhas Chandra Bose.\n\nThey are found mostly in central, eastern, northern India and Nepal, and particularly in Bengal. Today, there are an estimated 800,000 Chitraguptavanshi Kayasthas in India. North Indian Kayasthas that rose to prominence since independence, include the country's first president, Rajendra Prasad, and its second prime minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri .\n\nKayasthas are considered a Forward Caste, as they do not qualify for any of the reservation benefits allotted to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes that are administered by the Government of India.\nThese \"Chitraguptavanshi\" Kayasthas of United Provinces, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Bengal and Orissa have been mobilizing through their respective organizations as they feel isolated and feel they are losing opportunities to the backward castes. In this effort, they are aligning themselves with different political parties to gain political and economical advantages and are now demanding 33 percent reservation in Government jobs.\n\nThe exact \"varna\" status of \"Chitraguptavanshi\" Kayasthas has been a subject of debate. According to some accounts, they are a literate and educated class of Kshatriyas, and they have been referred to as a twice-born caste.\n\nIn Bengal, Bengali Kayastha, alongside Brahmins, have been described as the \"highest Hindu castes\". After the Muslim conquest of India, Bengali Kayasthas absorbed remnants of Bengal's old Hindu ruling dynasties - including the Sena, Pala, Chandra, and Varman - and, in this way, became the region's surrogate Kshatriya or \"warrior\" class. During the British rule, the Bengali Kayasthas, along with the Bengali Brahmins and Baidyas, were considered as \"Bhadralok\", a term coined in Bengal for the 'Gentry' or 'respectable people'- based on refined culture, prestige, education etc.\nThe last census of the British Raj in India (1931) classified them as an 'upper caste' i.e. Dwija and the final British Raj law case involving their varna in 1926 placed them into the Kashtriya varna.\n\nAccording to W.Rowe's account (that later scholars disagreed with), during the British Raj era, certain law cases led to courts classifying Kayasthas as shudras, based largely upon the theories of Herbert Hope Risley who had conducted extensive studies on castes and tribes of the Bengal Presidency. According to Rowe, the Kayasthas of Bengal, Bombay and the United Provinces repeatedly challenged this classification by producing a flood of books, pamphlets, family histories and journals to pressurize the government for recognizing them as Kshatriya and to reform the caste practices in the directions of sanskritisation and westernisation.\nHowever, scholars from the University of Berkeley as well as the University of Cambridge have disagreed with Rowe's research by pinpointing\n'factual and interpretative errors' in his study as well as criticizing his study for making 'unquestioned assumptions' about the kayastha movement of sanskritisation and westernisation.\n\nH.Bellenoit gives the details of the individual British Raj era law cases and concludes that since the kayasthas are a non-cohesive group and not a single caste, their varna was resolved in the cases that came up by taking into account regional differences and customs followed by that particular caste. Bellenoit also disagrees with W.Rowe by showing that Herbert Hope Risley's theories were in fact used to ultimately classify them as Kshatriyas by the British courts. The first case began in 1860 in Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh with a property dispute where the plaintiff was considered an 'illegitimate child' by the defendants, a north-Indian Kayastha family. The British court denied inheritance to the child, citing that Kayasthas are Dvija, \"twice-born\" or \"upper-caste\" and that the illegitimate children of Dwijas have no rights to inheritance. In the next case in 1875 in the Allahabad High Court, a north Indian Kayastha widow was denied adoption rights as she was an upper-caste i.e. Dwija woman. However, in a 1884 adoption case as well as a 1916 property dispute, Calcutta High Court argued that Bengali kayasthas have started using names like 'Das' and classified the Bengali Kayasthas as shudras - although the court did acknowledge their Kshatriya origin. The Allahabad High Court ruled in 1890 that Kayasthas were Kshatriyas. Finally, in a property dispute case in Patna in 1926, the Patna court characterized both the 1884 and 1916 Calcutta courts rulings as inconclusive and ultimately ruled that the kayasthas were of Kshatriya origin and hence twice born or dwija. The Patna court cited smritis and Puranas, several colonial ethnologists, such as William Crooke and Herbert Hope Risley, and used their qualified endorsements on the dwija origins of Kayasthas. The British census of 1931 also lists Kayasthas as one of the upper (twice-born) castes.\n\nSome noteworthy people of the Kayastha caste of India\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17908592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17908592", "title": "Kenryo Kanamatsu", "text": "Kenryo Kanamatsu\n\nKenryō Kanamatsu (, 1915-1986) was a translator, author, and lifelong devotee of Jōdo Shinshū, sometimes called \"Shin Buddhism\". His seminal work, \"Naturalness\", (written in 1949), was an introduction of Jōdo Shinshū to the Western world.\n\nBorn in Kyoto in 1915, Kanamatsu received his B.A. in philosophy at Ōtani University. A Fulbright scholar at Cornell University and the University of Chicago, he received his doctorate and became a Professor at Otani University. A translator as well as an author, Kanamatsu translated the works of Plato into Japanese. In 1971 he published a book on the theology and cosmology of Plato.\n\n"}
{"id": "53815794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53815794", "title": "La Calotte", "text": "La Calotte\n\nLa Calotte is a French illustrated satirical anticlerical weekly publication, which appeared in France from 1906 to 1912. Afterwards the title was resumed from 1930 to the present day, with a change of name under the German occupation of France.\n\nIt was founded in Paris by Louis Grenêche, a publisher, in the context of the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State, during the troubles caused by the Inventories. A powerful anticlerical wave then agitated France.\n\nLa Calotte appeared every week on 16 pages, half of which was illustrated with anti-clerical satirical drawings. The rest consistsed of texts, songs, jokes, denouncing clericalism.\n\nThe designers were Saint-Fourien, Asmodée, A. Mac or Chérubin.\n\nIn its first issue of 14 September 1906, the editorial explains:\n\nLibertarian activist and free thinker André Lorulot took over this title in the 1930s. The designers who worked there were Armangeol (Armand Gros) who produced comic Bibles, satirical \"Lives of Jesus \"and \"History of the Popes\" illustrated with satirical drawings.\n\nDuring the 1939-1945 war, \"La Calotte \"changed its title to \"La Vague\", still under the direction of Lorulot, who stigmatized the ties between the Catholic Church and fascism. \"La Vague\" denounces antisemitism. \n\nAfter the war \"La Calotte\" became the organ of La Libre Pensee. It was a monthly publication from November 1945 on.\n\nAfter the death of André Lorulot, H. Perrodo-Le Moyne became its director (May 1963). He writes articles and draws under the signature of \"P. Le M\"..\n\nThe title still exists on subscription.\n\nAnother satirical weekly of the same name was published in Marseilles, between 1897 and 1906, with a pause between 1903 and 1905.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53418197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53418197", "title": "List of Adventist schools in the Philippines", "text": "List of Adventist schools in the Philippines\n\nThe following is a list of Seventh-day Adventist schools, colleges, universities and hospitals in the Philippines.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840567", "title": "List of Armenian Patriarchs of Constantinople", "text": "List of Armenian Patriarchs of Constantinople\n\nThe list of Armenian Patriarchs of Constantinople presents the holders of the office of Armenian Patriarch of Constantinople, the head of the Armenian Patriarchate of Constantinople from its establishment in 1461 to the present day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35079633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35079633", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Lithuania", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Lithuania\n\nThe Catholic Church in Lithuania is currently entirely Latin and composed of\n\n\n\n\nThere are no titular sees.\n\nAll Latin defunct jurisdictions have current successors, unlike the only Eastern Catholic diocesan see(s).\n\nThe Ukrainian Catholic Eparchy of Vilnius (Byzantine Rite, since 1809) was suppressed in 1828 and immediately replaced by the Ukrainian Catholic Eparchy of Žyrovyci, only to be suppressed again in 1833, without successor. \n\n"}
{"id": "17367676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17367676", "title": "List of Sindhi festivals", "text": "List of Sindhi festivals\n\nOne of the first civilizations of human history, the Sindhis have a rich and clearly distinct cultural heritage and are very festive. The most important festival for Hindu Sindhis is the birthday of Lord Jhoolelal and Cheti Chand.\n\n1. Cheti Chand<br>\nCelebration of the birth of the Water god (Varun Devta) Sai Uderolal, popularly known as Jhoolelal . So much has been said and written about it that it would be superfluous to mention the event again. In Sindh the beginning of the New Year was considered Cheti Chand . Some businessmen opened new account books on Cheti Chand; many however, did that on the eve of Diwali. On the full moon day, people used to go to a river or lake and offer 'Akho' with a pinch of rice mixed with milk and flour. If there was no river or 'Darya', the ritual was performed at a well. Even Sindhi Sikhs go to temples or Gurudwaras, because Guru Nanak's birthday also falls on Pūrnima.\n\n2. Sagra (Sacred thread) \nSindhi Bhaibands often lived in foreign countries; therefore, their wives were always worried about the good health of their husbands. For this purpose they performed pooja and fasted on four Mondays of Sawan month, after which they perform pooja, distribute sweet rice and then had the sacred thread tied on the wrist by the priest ( Bandhan ). Here in India, the priests have made a show business which costs nearly 500-800 rupees, a money making gimmick.\n\n3. Mahalakshmi's Sacred Thread (Mahalakshmi-a-jo-Sagro) \nThis sacred thread had 16 strips and 17 days. On the day when the sacred thread was to be untied, it was celebrated as an important day and special savouries like satpura and pakwan of Suji & Maida were made and distributed firstly to the priests and the poor and afterwards the remaining savouries were used by family members.\n\n4. Fasts \nIn Sindhis, generally Mondays & Saturdays, Giyaras or Umaas were observed as fasts ( vrats ). During the fast of Satyanarayan and nine days of Ekaanaas, only one time meal was generally taken.\n\n5. Teejri<br> \nThis festival takes place in the month of Sawan when married women and girls paint their hands and feet with Mehndi, go on fast for the whole day, during which they used to play games, swing in Jhulas and sing love songs. Orthodox or strict Sindhi women do not even drink a sip of water until they break their fast. In the night after making an offering to the moon, they would break the fast. This is also referred to as the Sindhi version of Karwa Chauth \n\n6. Akhan Teej<br>\nIn Sindh, Akshaya Tritiya is known as Akhandi which is celebrated in Vaisakha. On this day new earthen pots of water(matkas) were kept and everyone was offered clean and cool water. The significance of this day was to offer water to the thirsty. Hence at every nook and corner, sharbat, with pieces of apple in it, was offered to passersby along with 'prasad' . On this day, it was also customary to send new earthen pots and fruits to priests and Gurdwara.\n\n7. AUnn-Matyo \nIn the month of Sawan, on the Baaras of Krishna Paksha, cereals were changed in food, i.e. instead of wheat and rice, chapatis made of gram flour (Besan) were eaten.\n\n8. Ban Badhri \nDuring the month of 'Bado', during the Baaras of Shukla Paksha, god Varun had taken avtaar . In lieu of that small insects like ants etc. were fed Gur (jaggery) and Musti . Married daughters are invited by their parents for meals.\n\n9. Somavati Umaas \nDuring certain months Umaas takes place on a Monday. That day is considered important for having a \"dumb dip' in the waters; without talking to anyone early in the morning. It is also, called 'Gungee Umaas\" .\n\n10. Nandhi and Vaddi Thadri \nBoth of these take place in the month of Sawan . On the day before Thadree day, people cook lola (sweet flour cakes) and rote (fried cakes) because there has to be no lighting of fire in the house on the Thadree day. The lolas and Rotes are eaten with curd or pickle. On that day drops of water are also sprinkled on the cooking fire to appease Sitladevi Mata.\n\n11. Janamashtami, Ram Navmi and Shivratri \nSince Krishna was born after midnight, on Janamashtami, bhajans and kirtan are held in temples till midnight. On Ram Navmi, Lord Rama's birthday is celebrated. On Shivratri people drink 'Thaadhal' with some 'bhang' in it, after making offering of it in the Mahadev temple. In the villages and cities, big pots of 'Taahri' (sweet rice) are prepared and distributed among all.\n\n12. Tirmoori \nOn this festive day parents send ladoos & chiki ( Laaee ) made of Tils to their married daughters. On the Makar Sankrant day the sun moves from south to north. It is therefore also called 'utraan' or 'Tirmoori' . In Mahabharat battle Bhisham Pitamah did not breathe his last till ‘ utraan' since on this day there happens flush of light in Dev Lok .\n\n13. Dussehra \nFew days before Dussehra there used to be Ramlila program which was attended by throngs of people. On the Dussehra day colourful effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarna and Meghnath were burnt.\n\n14. Diyaaree \nTwo days before Diwali, Sindhis start lighting Diyaas (earthen lamps) from 'Dhan Teras' . The bazaars are full with prospective consumers. Friends and relatives meet one another with affection and extended pleasantries and sweetmeats. In the night, Laxmi Poojan takes place when all the members of the family pray with reverence and respect. In the night, people used to take in their hands a stick to which a rag dipped in oil was tied which was burnt. It was called 'Mollawaro' ; everyone shouted 'Mollawaro ... . Mollawaro' ...\n\n15. The Giyaras of Kati \nBefore the independence of Pakistan in 1947, on this day people in Sindh used to be engaged in giving charity. The whole bazaar would be full with hundreds of beggars and the needy, who would spread a cloth before them, on which people, according to their might, would throw money, Bhugra, fruits etc. The jugglers used to arrange their Tamashas on the road with monkeys and bears dancing on the tunes played by the jugglers. An atmosphere of gaiety and gay prevailed all through the day.\n\n16. Navratra \nDuring this days devotees of Devi ate one meal a day and did not even shave and cut hair. Ladies sang bhajans . In Nagarparkar they used to dance like Garba in Gujrat.\n\n17. Lal Loi<br> In some parts of Sindh, the Sindhi community celebrated Laal Loi (Lohri) on the 13th of January every year. During Lal Loi kids used to bring wood sticks from their grand parents and aunties and like a fire camp burnt these sticks in the night with people enjoying, dancing and playing around fire. Some ladies whose wishes were fulfilled offered coconuts in the fire and distributed prasad 'Sesa' ; this continued till midnight.\n\n18. Rakhri<br> \nDuring the Purnima of Sawan month, according to Daswani and Parchani (1978) the family priest in Sindh \"traditionally tied a rakhi on the entire family while the ritual of a sister tying the Rakhi round a brother's wrist has been borrowed as a result of non-Sindhi influence in North India.\" In this festival, sisters tie a Rakhi to their brothers. This day is called \"Rakhree Bandhan'. People in cities and places near rivers or the sea, used to offer coconuts and milk to the God of Waters 'Varun Devta so that those who were travelling in ships and boats should have a safe and sound journey.\n\n19. Shraadh \nJust as in India the month of September 'Bado' was meant for Krishna Paksha as Pitar Pakhiya. Any member of the family who had died on particular (tithi) day and date, a Shraadh was offered for the solace of the deceased's soul. The Brahmins were given food and Dakhshna. It is said that Arya Samaj carried out a strong movement against Shraadh, but the Shraadhs continued because of the faith of people since they felt that through this method the deceased members of the family are remembered and all the family members have a good gathering.\n\n20. Nagapanchmi (Gogro) \nDuring those days whenever the snake charmer brought snakes, they were given some Dakhshna and also milk for the snakes. Nagpanchami is also called Gogro. It is a folklore from Kutch and Gujarat.\n\n21. Holi \nThe festival of colours in which all the young and old join together to express their joy at the change of season. Some people correlate Holi festival with Holika, the sister of Hirnakashyap, mythological father of Bhagat Prahlad.\n\n"}
{"id": "10862215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10862215", "title": "List of evangelical seminaries and theological colleges", "text": "List of evangelical seminaries and theological colleges\n\nThis is a list of Christian seminaries and theological institutions that self-identify or are generally regarded as being evangelical.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6243040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6243040", "title": "Manuel Antonio Acevedo", "text": "Manuel Antonio Acevedo\n\nManuel Antonio Acevedo (1770 – 1 October 1825) was an Argentine statesman, lawyer and priest. He was a representative to the Congress of Tucumán which on 9 July 1816 declared the Independence of Argentina.\n\nAcevedo was born in Salta and studied in Córdoba, following an ecclesiastical career at the Montserrat School. He was ordained a priest on 8 December 1794 and served in Cachi, then Molinos in Salta Province, and later in Belén, Catamarca Province.\n\nIn 1815 Acevedo was elected by Catamarca to the Tucumán Congress and served in 1816 for the declaration. He supported the idea of a constitutional Incan monarchy. After the Congress moved to Buenos Aires, he served as president of the body. He then returned to his parish in Belén. In 1824 he again represented Catamarca in the General Congress.\n"}
{"id": "35454985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35454985", "title": "Maqam Ibrahim", "text": "Maqam Ibrahim\n\nThe Maqām Ibrāhīm () is a stone associated with Abraham, Ishmael and their rebuilding of the \"Ka‘bah\" in what is now the Great Mosque of Mecca in Saudi Arabia. According to Islamic tradition, the imprint on the stone came from Abraham's feet. According to one tradition it appeared when Abraham stood on the stone while building the Kaaba; when the walls became too high, Abraham stood on the \"maqām\", which miraculously rose up to let him continue building and also miraculously went down in order to allow Ishmael to hand him stones. Other traditions held that the footprint appeared when the wife of Ishmael washed Abraham's head, or alternatively when Abraham stood atop it in order to summon the people to perform the pilgrimage to Mecca.\n\n"}
{"id": "48500278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48500278", "title": "Medieval women's mysticism", "text": "Medieval women's mysticism\n\nMedieval women's mysticism was \"a succession of insights and revelations about God that gradually transformed the recipient\" according to historian Elizabeth Petroff of Oxford University in her 1994 book, \"Body and Soul.\" The word \"mysticism\" has its origin in ancient Greece where individuals called the \"mystae\" participated in mystery religions. The life of a medieval woman mystic was spent seeking unity with God in a series of stages. The mystical life of a medieval woman began with a purge of the spirit in which she released herself from earthly indulgences and attachments. In a state of contrition the medieval woman mystic faced suffering because of her past sins, and the mercy of God was revealed to her through penitence. Mystics sought to imitate the suffering of Christ in order to gain an understanding through experience. During the compassion stage of suffering, the pain experienced by the medieval woman mystic \"revealed the believer's love of Christ, fostered unity with Christ and the world, and began to draw the believer beyond the physical Jesus who suffered on the Cross to understand the immensity of the love that motivated Christ in the world to suffer on humanity's behalf\". Medieval women mystics experienced visions during what medieval historians refer to as the Illuminative stage of their lives that contained instructions from God and would communicate their revelations in written form.\n\nVisions occurred to the mystic in the form of raptures or ecstasies, out-of-body experiences during which the mystic was in a state of immobility, unresponsive to and disconnected from the outside world. The visions of most female mystics during the Middle Ages came in the form of mental images. > Medieval women mystics were considered prophets by their communities. During the Middle Ages, medieval interpretations of Biblical passages such as Corinthians 14:34 resulted in women being excluded from the Church's hierarchy and lacking the authority to impart Biblical wisdom. However, medieval women were thought to be more susceptible to experiencing a rapture based on Galen's writings on humor theory. Medieval theologians interpreted the feminine softness and coldness described by Galen as evidence that women were more impressionable to visions. Also, the Christian idea that God used humble beings as his vessels supported the ability of Medieval women to act as mystics.\n\nThe legitimacy of the medieval woman mystic was gained through partnership with the Catholic Church and observed proof of physical suffering and deterioration. Medieval women mystics lived ascetic lives of severe fasting, abstinence, and isolation lifestyle choices that became physically debilitating and in some instances resulted in death.\n\nMedieval women mystics also used self-denigration in the published versions of their visions in order to both gain clerical approval of their revelations and showcase their status as God's humble servants.\n\nThe proof of a medieval woman's mystical ability was shown through physical suffering due to mortification of the flesh and by the wounds that symbolized the mystic's connection to Christ. The presence of the Stigmata on a mystic's body served as divine evidence of her ability to communicate with God. Another sign of mystical ability was observed bleeding on Fridays during the hour of the Crucifixion. By the end of the Middle Ages the physical deterioration of the woman mystic's body was considered proof of her sanctity. Medieval women mystics were marked as special instances of God's grace because of their choice to suffer.\n\nMedieval women mystics were endorsed by the Church to reaffirm orthodox religion through their visions. The Latin church of the Middle Ages fought heresy with Scholasticism and the Inquisition and \nplaced emphasis on the sacraments and models of exemplary religiosity. Mystics supported the Catholic Church's teaching of suffering on others' behalf in visionary journeys to Purgatory where they encountered suffering souls. Medieval women mystics believed that their physical mortifications served as purgation for the sinful dead. Through prayer medieval women mystics released souls from Purgatory.\n\nMedieval women mystics showed particular obedience to their confessor. Confession became a key part of female piety because of the Fourth Lateran Council of 1215 which made confession a more integral part of medieval life. During confession, female mystics would discuss their revelations and establish a partnership with their confessor, who often circulated the accounts of the mystic's revelations throughout the Christian community. The authorization of the Catholic Church distinguished the heretic from the pious mystic. The mystic Marguerite Porete was burned for heresy by the inquisition in France in 1310 after her text \"The Mirror of Simple Souls\" was deemed unorthodox. Conversely, Hildegard of Bingen became an ally of Pope Eugenius III and Bernard of Clairvaux in their fight against German heresy in 1147. According to Petroff, Medieval women mystics \"inspired Christian leaders who synthesized Christian tradition and proposed new models for the Christian community.\"\n\nBeguine communities originated in Northern Europe during the twelfth century. The Beguines were groups of women who lived together, supported themselves through manual labor, provided charity to the sick and the poor, and devoted their lives to spiritual growth. The Beguines also performed acts of penitence such as self-flagellation, fasting, and vigils. The Beguine communities were supported by Pope Gregory IX during the thirteenth century and sparked a resurgence in female religiosity. Beguine mystics were seen as the brides of Christ and living saints during the Middle Ages.\n\nToward the end of the Middle Ages, from the thirteenth century onward, women mystics faced greater scrutiny due to the growing prominence of inquisitional procedure. In Germany during the fourteenth century, the clergy began to greatly restrict the religious lives of women. The Council of Vienne, in 1311, condemned religious women who preached and lived outside a monastery without the direct supervision of a cleric, thus putting an end to the Beguine movement. Scholastics in the universities began to propose that inquisitional processes should be employed to weed out heresy among women mystics. Jean Gerson, a chancellor of the University of Paris, believed the church's corruption and laxity was the cause of widespread acceptance of female mystics. Gerson wanted to create a permanent post of the Inquisition that investigated mystics and their visions. In the Rhineland and Southern France from 1318 to 1328, Dominican inquisitors began to burn Beguines and other religious women at the stake in response to the papal bull \"Quum Inter Nonnullos\" of John XXII which condemned poverty-based religiosity. By the end of the fifteenth century, the mystical marriage of the medieval woman mystic's marriage with Christ had come to be viewed as a copulation with devil by the Dominicans.\n\nCatherine of Siena was the daughter of a lower-class wool dyer and lived through the Black Death. She vowed her virginity to God at the age of seven. At fifteen she cut her hair in protest of marriage. After she was scarred by a case of smallpox at seventeen, her parents allowed her to join a third-order Dominican group called the Mantellate due to her reduced marriage prospects. Catherine chose to remain at home and it was there, at the age of twenty, that she experienced a \"mystical espousal\" where she became one with Christ. Catherine was an active minister to the poor and sick and became renowned. In 1370, she had a \"mystical death\" during which she and Christ exchanged hearts. During the Babylonian Captivity, Catherine prophesied a three-step plan to re-establish a moral and peaceful Christendom: the return of the papacy to Italy, the establishment of peace among the warring Italian factions, and a Crusade to the Islamic world. In 1347, the mystic was brought to Florence and examined on her beliefs and activities by the General Chapter of her order. On April 1, 1375, Catherine had a vision in which she received the stigmata and prophesied the Great Schism which would occur in 1379. In 1376 she helped convince Pope Gregory XI to return to Rome. The years before her death she lived in Rome as an advisor to the pope. She died in 1380 at the age of 33.\n\nIn 1378 Catherine of Siena published her visions in the \"Dialogue\". The \"Dialogue\" tells of a conversation between Catherine and God where God explains that Christ's crucifixion created a bridge between earth and heaven. Christians can reach heaven by walking across the bridge which requires removing themselves from earthly indulgences and acquiring a love of virtue.\n\nMargery Kempe was born in King's Lynn in Norfolk, England. She married John Kempe at the age of twenty and suffered a series of health-afflicting pregnancies. She also owned and operated her own brewery. During her marriage she heard voices and believed herself to be tortured by demons. One day she had a vision of Christ sitting beside her; from that point on, Margery was rejuvenated with a great passion for her faith. Margery went on pilgrimages to the Holy Land, Assisi, Rome and Germany. In one of her visions, she saw herself as a maid and servant to Saint Anne and then the Virgin Mary whom she accompanied to Bethlehem with Saint Joseph; she was then present for the birth of Christ. In another vision, Jesus granted Margery the right to not fast on Fridays so that her husband would agree to allow her to choose a life of celibacy. When her husband had a near fatal fall down the stairs, God answered her prayers, allowing her husband to live, but required that she looked after him. Nearly all of what is known of Margery's life is due to the publication of her autobiography \"The Book of Margery Kempe\".\n\nJulian of Norwich was an anchoress at the Church of Saint Julian at Conisford, England. Little is known of her family background but she lived during the Hundred Years War and Great Schism. Julian lived in an anchorhold which was a small house isolated from the community with few rooms and a garden used for sustenance. In 1373 she experienced the \"Showings,\" which was a mystical experience in which numerous revelations and images were revealed to her at one time. In the \"Showings\" Julian witnessed the Crucifixion, had a conversation with Christ, then witnessed the Virgin Mary during the Annunciation, and saw an image of the devil. Another vision of Julian is of the Lord and a servant who in attempting to leave to do God's will stumbles and suffers in pain. According to Julian, the servant represents Adam and humankind, is unaware that the Lord continues to look upon the servant with grace and kindness despite his failings. Julian published her visions in the 1395 book \"Revelations of Divine Love\".\n\nThe religious career of Hildegard of Bingen began at seven when she joined her aunt Jutta, a recluse. Their retreat was later turned into a convent where Hildegard became a nun at fourteen. She wrote letters, visions, prophecies, songs, and morality plays. She was known as a prophet to all her contemporaries such as Bernard of Clairvaux. Hildegard had visions since the age of five. According to her she experienced two types of spiritual visions: \"the Living Light\" in which she could see nothing and \"the Shade of the Living Light\" where there was a diffused radiance.\n\nIn \"Scivias\", published between 1151 and 1152, Hildegard recounted twenty six visions. A description of one her visions in Book 2 in \"Scivias\"illustrates the form in which divine revelation manifested to her: \n\"Then I saw a most splendid light, and in the light, the whole of which burnt in a most beautiful, shining fire, was the fire of a man of the sapphire colour, and that most splendid light poured over the whole of that shining fire, and the shining fire over all that splendid light, and that most splendid light and shining fire over the whole figure of the man, appearing one light in one virtue and power. And again I heard that living Light saying to me: This is the meaning of the mysteries of God, that it may be discerned and understood discreetly what that fulness may be, which is without beginning and to which nothing is wanting, who by the most powerful strength plated all the strong places.\"\n\nMarguerite Porete was a French Beguine from Hainault who lived during the late thirteenth and early fourteenth century. She published \"The Mirror of Simple Souls\" in the vernacular French and was arrested on charges of heresy in 1310. She refused to give testimony during her inquisition trial in Paris. The University of Paris, after surveying some passages of her book, deemed her a relapsed heretic because she had been accused instances prior to her last arrest. Porete sent her book to three scholars who approved and published the text. \"The Mirror of Simple Souls\" was widely circulated and translated into Latin, Italian, and Middle English. Unlike other female mystics, Porete publicly taught the message of her revelations. Similar to Hildegard of Bingen she dispensed with male ecclesiastic representation. However, in the case of Porete she was found guilty by the Inquisition and burned at the stake in 1310.\n\nIn \"The Mirror of Simple Souls\" Porete explained the different states of the soul. She explained: \"And therefore this Soul knows only him, and loves only him, praises only him, for there is only he. Because what is exists by his goodness, and God loves his goodness whenever he has bestowed it, and his goodness bestowed is God himself, and God cannot depart from his goodness so that it doesn't dwell in him, thus he is what goodness is and goodness is what God is. And therefore Goodness sees itself by means of his goodness through divine light in the sixth state, by which the Soul is purified.\"\n"}
{"id": "262656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262656", "title": "Naberius", "text": "Naberius\n\nThe demon Naberius was first mentioned by Johann Weyer in 1583. He is supposedly the most valiant Marquess of Hell, and has nineteen legions of demons under his command. He makes men cunning in all arts (and sciences, according to most authors), but especially in rhetoric, speaking with a hoarse voice. He also restores lost dignities and honors, although to Johann Weyer he procures the loss of them.\n\nNaberius appears as a three-headed dog or a raven. He has a raucous voice but presents himself as eloquent and amiable. He teaches the art of gracious living. He has also been depicted as a crow or a black crane.\n\nConcerning his name, it is unclear if there is an association with the Greek Cerberus. It is said that in 1583, Johann Weyer considers both of them to be the same demon. He claimed:\n\n\"Naberius [Naberus], alias Cerberus, is a valiant marquesse, shewing himselfe in the forme of a crowe, when he speaketh with a hoarse voice: he maketh a man amiable and cunning in all arts, and speciallie in rhetorike, he procureth the losse of prelacies and dignities: nineteene legions heare (and obeie) him.\"\n\"Other spellings\": Cerberus, Cerbere, Naberus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "90050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90050", "title": "Nefertiti", "text": "Nefertiti\n\nNeferneferuaten Nefertiti () (c. 1370 – c. 1330 BC) was an Egyptian queen and the Great Royal Wife (chief consort) of Akhenaten, an Egyptian Pharaoh. Nefertiti and her husband were known for a religious revolution, in which they worshiped one god only, Aten, or the sun disc. With her husband, she reigned at what was arguably the wealthiest period of Ancient Egyptian history. Some scholars believe that Nefertiti ruled briefly as Neferneferuaten after her husband's death and before the accession of Tutankhamun, although this identification is a matter of ongoing debate. If Nefertiti did rule as Pharaoh, her reign was marked by the fall of Amarna and relocation of the capital back to the traditional city of Thebes.\n\nNefertiti had many titles including Hereditary Princess (iryt-p`t); Great of Praises (wrt-hzwt); Lady of Grace (nbt-im3t), Sweet of Love (bnrt-mrwt); Lady of The Two Lands (nbt-t3wy); Main King's Wife, his beloved (hmt-niswt-‘3t meryt.f); Great King's Wife, his beloved (hmt-niswt-wrt meryt.f), Lady of all Women (hnwt-hmwt-nbwt); and Mistress of Upper and Lower Egypt (hnwt-Shm’w-mhw).\n\nShe was made famous by her bust, now in Berlin's Neues Museum. The bust is one of the most copied works of ancient Egypt. It was attributed to the sculptor Thutmose, and it was found in his workshop. The bust is notable for exemplifying the understanding Ancient Egyptians had regarding realistic facial proportions.\n\nNefertiti, Egyptian Nfr.t-jy.tj, for \"the beauty has come\". Nefertiti's parentage is not known with certainty, but one often cited theory is that she was the daughter of Ay, later to be pharaoh. However, this hypothesis is likely wrong since Ay and his wife Tey are never called the father and mother of Nefertiti and Tey's only connection with her was that she was the \"nurse of the great queen\" Nefertiti. Nefertiti's Scenes in the tombs of the nobles in Amarna mention the queen's sister who is named Mutbenret (previously read as Mutnodjemet).\nAnother theory that gained some support identified Nefertiti with the Mitanni princess Tadukhipa. However, Tadukhipa was already married to Akhenaten's father and there is no evidence for any reason why this woman would need to alter her name in a proposed marriage to Akhenaten or any evidence of a foreign non-Egyptian background for Nefertiti.\n\nThe exact dates when Nefertiti married Akhenaten and became the king's great royal wife of Egypt are uncertain. Their six known daughters (and estimated years of birth) were:\n\n\nNefertiti first appears in scenes in Thebes. In the damaged tomb (TT188) of the royal butler Parennefer, the new king Amenhotep IV is accompanied by a royal woman, and this lady is thought to be an early depiction of Nefertiti. The king and queen are shown worshiping the Aten. In the tomb of the vizier Ramose, Nefertiti is shown standing behind Amenhotep IV in the Window of Appearance during the reward ceremony for the vizier.\nDuring the early years in Thebes, Akhenaten (still known as Amenhotep IV) had several temples erected at Karnak. One of the structures, the Mansion of the Benben (hwt-ben-ben), was dedicated to Nefertiti. She is depicted with her daughter Meritaten and in some scenes the princess Meketaten participates as well. In scenes found on the talatat, Nefertiti appears almost twice as often as her husband. She is shown appearing behind her husband the Pharaoh in offering scenes in the role of the queen supporting her husband, but she is also depicted in scenes that would have normally been the prerogative of the king. She is shown smiting the enemy, and captive enemies decorate her throne.\n\nIn the fourth year of his reign, Amenhotep IV decided to move the capital to Akhetaten (modern Amarna). In his fifth year, Amenhotep IV officially changed his name to Akhenaten, and Nefertiti was henceforth known as Neferneferuaten-Nefertiti. The name change was a sign of the ever-increasing importance of the cult of the Aten. It changed Egypt's religion from a polytheistic religion to a religion which may have been better described as a monolatry (the depiction of a single god as an object for worship) or henotheism (one god, who is not the only god).\n\nThe boundary stelae of years 4 and 5 mark the boundaries of the new city and suggest that the move to the new city of Akhetaten occurred around that time. The new city contained several large open-air temples dedicated to the Aten. Nefertiti and her family would have resided in the Great Royal Palace in the centre of the city and possibly at the Northern Palace as well. Nefertiti and the rest of the royal family feature prominently in the scenes at the palaces and in the tombs of the nobles.\nNefertiti's steward during this time was an official named Meryre II. He would have been in charge of running her household.\nInscriptions in the tombs of Huya and Meryre II dated to Year 12, 2nd month of Peret, Day 8 show a large foreign tribute. The people of Kharu (the north) and Kush (the south) are shown bringing gifts of gold and precious items to Akhenaten and Nefertiti. In the tomb of Meryre II, Nefertiti's steward, the royal couple is shown seated in a kiosk with their six daughters in attendance. This is one of the last times princess Meketaten is shown alive.\n\nTwo representations of Nefertiti that were excavated by Flinders Petrie appear to show Nefertiti in the middle to later part of Akhenaten's reign 'after the exaggerated style of the early years had relaxed somewhat'. One is a small piece on limestone and is a preliminary sketch of Nefertiti wearing her distinctive tall crown with carving began around the mouth, chin, ear and tab of the crown. Another is a small inlay head (Petrie Museum Number UC103) modeled from reddish-brown quartzite that was clearly intended to fit into a larger composition.\n\nMeketaten may have died in year 13 or 14. Nefertiti, Akhenaten, and three princesses are shown mourning her. Nefertiti disappears from the scene soon after that.\n\nMany scholars believe Nefertiti had a role elevated from that of Great Royal Wife, and was promoted to co-regent by her husband Pharaoh Akhenaten before his death. She is depicted in many archaeological sites as equal in stature to a King, smiting Egypt's enemies, riding a chariot, and worshipping the Aten in the manner of a Pharaoh. When Nefertiti's name disappears from historical records, it is replaced by that of a co-regent named Neferneferuaten, who became a female Pharaoh. It seems likely that Nefertiti, in a similar fashion to the previous female Pharaoh Hatshepsut, assumed the kingship under the name Pharaoh Neferneferuaten after her husband's death. It is also possible that, in a similar fashion to Hatshepsut, Nefertiti disguised herself as a male and assumed the male alter-ego of Smenkhkare; in this instance she could have elevated her daughter Meritaten to the role of Great Royal Wife.\n\nIf Nefertiti did rule Egypt as Pharaoh, it has been theorized that she would have attempted damage control and may have re-instated the Ancient Egyptian religion and the Amun priests, and had Tutankhamun raised in with the traditional gods.\n\nArchaeologist and Egyptologist Dr. Zahi Hawass theorized that Nefertiti returned to Thebes from Amarna to rule as Pharaoh, based on ushabti and other feminine evidence of a female Pharaoh found in Tutankhamun's tomb, as well as evidence of Nefertiti smiting Egypt's enemies which was a duty reserved to kings.\n\nPre-2012 Egyptological theories thought that Nefertiti vanished from the historical record around Year 12 of Akhenaten's reign, with no word of her thereafter. Explanations included a sudden death, by a plague that was sweeping through the city, or some other natural death. This theory was based on the discovery of several ushabti fragments inscribed for Nefertiti (now located in the Louvre and Brooklyn Museums).\n\nA previous theory, that she fell into disgrace, was discredited when deliberate erasures of monuments belonging to a queen of Akhenaten were shown to refer to Kiya instead.\n\nDuring Akhenaten's reign (and perhaps after), Nefertiti enjoyed unprecedented power. By the twelfth year of his reign, there is evidence she may have been elevated to the status of co-regent: equal in status to the pharaoh — as may be depicted on the Coregency Stela.\n\nIt is possible Nefertiti is the ruler named Neferneferuaten. Some theories believe that Nefertiti was still alive and held influence on the younger royals. If this is the case, that influence and presumably Nefertiti's own life would have ended by year 3 of Tutankhaten's reign (1331 BC). In that year, Tutankhaten changed his name to Tutankhamun. This is evidence of his return to the official worship of Amun, and abandonment of Amarna to return the capital to Thebes.\n\nDiscovered in 2012, a Regnal Year 16, month 3 of Akhet, day 15 inscription, dated explicitly to Akhenaten's reign, mentions the presence of the \"Great Royal Wife, His Beloved, Mistress of the Two Lands, Neferneferuaten Nefertiti\". The barely legible five line text \"mentions a building project in Amarna\" (Egypt's political capital under Akhenaten). The inscription was found in a limestone quarry at Dayr Abū Ḥinnis, just north of Dayr al-Barshā, north of Amarna. The inscription has now been published in a 2014 journal article by Athena Van der Perre who states that the five-line building inscription was found in a limestone quarry at Dayr Abū Ḥinnis. Van der Perre notes that Dayr Abū Ḥinnis is located \"on the eastern side of the Nile, about ten kilometers north of Amarna\" and records that the building work inscription refers equally to both the ruling king Akhenaten and his great wife Nefertiti under the authority of the king's scribe Penthu. Penthu was presumably the owner of Amarna Tomb 5—where one of his titles given was \"first servant of the Aten in the Mansion of Aten in Akhetaten\"; due to the rarity of his name and his position as chief priest within the Aten priesthood, it cannot be coincidental—as van der Perre writes—that the same Penthu would have been placed in charge of quarrying stone for the Aten temple. However, as Van der Perre stresses:\n\nThis means that Nefertiti was alive in the second to last year of Akhenaten's reign, (this pharaoh's final year was his Year 17) and demonstrates that Akhenaten still ruled alone, with his wife by his side. Therefore, the rule of the female Amarna pharaoh known as Neferneferuaten must be placed between the death of Akhenaten and the accession of Tutankhamun. This female pharaoh used the epithet 'Effective for her husband' in one of her cartouches, which means she was either Nefertiti or her daughter Meritaten (who was married to king Smenkhkare).\n\nThere are many theories regarding Nefertiti's death and burial but, to date, the mummy of this famous queen, her parents, and her children have not been found or formally identified. In 1898, French archeologist Victor Loret found two female mummies inside the tomb of Amenhotep II in KV35 in the Valley of the Kings. These two mummies, named 'The Elder Lady' and 'The Younger Lady', were likely candidates of her remains.\n\nAn article in \"KMT\" magazine in 2001 suggested that the Elder Lady may be Nefertiti's body. It was argued that the evidence suggests that the mummy is around her mid-thirties or early forties, Nefertiti's guessed age of death. More evidence to support this identification was that the mummy's teeth look like that of a 29- to 38-year-old, Nefertiti's most likely age of death. Also, unfinished busts of Nefertiti appear to resemble the mummy's face, though other suggestions included Ankhesenamun.\n\nDue to recent age tests on the mummy's teeth, it eventually became apparent that the 'Elder Lady' is in fact Queen Tiye, mother of Akhenaten and that the DNA of the mummy is a close, if not direct, match to the lock of hair found in Tutankhamun's tomb. The lock of hair was found in a coffinette bearing an inscription naming Queen Tiye. Results have discovered that she was the daughter of Yuya and Thuya, who were the parents of Queen Tiye, thus ruling her out as Nefertiti.\n\nIn 2015, English archaeologist Nicholas Reeves announced that he had discovered evidence in high resolution scans of Tutankhamun's tomb \"indications of two previously unknown doorways, one set within a larger partition wall and both seemingly untouched since antiquity ... To the north [there] appears to be signaled a continuation of tomb KV62, and within these uncharted depths an earlier royal interment – that of Nefertiti herself.\"\n\nOn June 9, 2003, archaeologist Joann Fletcher, a specialist in ancient hair from the University of York in England, announced that Nefertiti's mummy may have been the Younger Lady. Fletcher suggested that Nefertiti was the Pharaoh Smenkhkare. Some Egyptologists hold to this view though the majority believe Smenkhkare to have been a separate person. Fletcher led an expedition funded by the Discovery Channel to examine what they believed to have been Nefertiti's mummy. However, it is well known that an independent researcher, Marianne Luban, was the first person to suggest that the KV35 Young Lady could be Nefertiti in an online article, \"Do We Have the Mummy of Nefertiti?\" published in 1999.\n\nThe team claimed that the mummy they examined was damaged in a way suggesting the body had been deliberately desecrated in antiquity. Mummification techniques, such as the use of embalming fluid and the presence of an intact brain, suggested an eighteenth-dynasty royal mummy. Other elements which the team used to support their theory were the age of the body, the presence of embedded nefer beads, and a wig of a rare style worn by Nefertiti. They further claimed that the mummy's arm was originally bent in the position reserved for pharaohs, but was later snapped off and replaced with another arm in a normal position.\n\nMost Egyptologists, among them Kent Weeks and Peter Lacovara, generally dismiss Fletcher's claims as unsubstantiated. They say that ancient mummies are almost impossible to identify as a particular person without DNA. As bodies of Nefertiti's parents or children have never been identified, her conclusive identification is impossible. Any circumstantial evidence, such as hairstyle and arm position, is not reliable enough to pinpoint a single, specific historical person. The cause of damage to the mummy can only be speculated upon, and the alleged revenge is an unsubstantiated theory. Bent arms, contrary to Fletcher's claims, were not reserved to pharaohs; this was also used for other members of the royal family. The wig found near the mummy is of unknown origin, and cannot be conclusively linked to that specific body. Finally, the 18th dynasty was one of the largest and most prosperous dynasties of ancient Egypt. A female royal mummy could be any of a hundred royal wives or daughters from the 18th dynasty's more than 200 years on the throne.\n\nIn addition to that, there was controversy about both the age and sex of the mummy. On June 12, 2003, Egyptian archaeologist Dr. Zahi Hawass, head of Egypt's Supreme Council for Antiquities, also dismissed the claim, citing insufficient evidence. On August 30, 2003, Reuters further quoted Hawass: \"I'm sure that this mummy is not a female\", and \"Dr Fletcher has broken the rules and therefore, at least until we have reviewed the situation with her university, she must be banned from working in Egypt.\" On different occasions, Hawass has claimed that the mummy is female and male.\n\nIn a more recent research effort led by Hawass, the mummy was put through CT scan analysis. Researchers concluded that she may be Tutankhamun's biological mother, an unnamed daughter of Amenhotep III and Queen Tiye, not Nefertiti. Fragments of shattered bone were found in the sinus, and blood clots were found. The theory that the damage was inflicted post-mummification was rejected, and a murder scenario was deemed more likely. The broken-off bent forearm found near the mummy, which had been proposed to have belonged to it, was conclusively shown not to actually belong to the Younger Lady. Scholars think that, after Tutankhamun returned Egypt to the traditional religion, he moved his closest relatives – father, grandmother, and biological mother – to the Valley of the Kings to be buried with him (according to the list of figurines and drawings in his tomb).\n\nA document was found in the ancient Hittite capital of Hattusa which dates to the Amarna period; the so-called \"Deeds\" of Suppiluliuma I. The Hittite ruler receives a letter from the Egyptian queen, while being in siege on Karkemish. The letter reads:\n\nThis document is considered extraordinary, as Egyptians traditionally considered foreigners to be inferior. Suppiluliuma I was surprised and exclaimed to his courtiers:\n\nUnderstandably, he was wary, and had an envoy investigate the situation, but by so doing, he missed his chance to bring Egypt into his empire. He eventually did send one of his sons, Zannanza, but the prince died, perhaps murdered, en route.\n\nThe identity of the queen who wrote the letter is uncertain. She is called Dakhamunzu in the Hittite annals, a possible translation of the Egyptian title \"Tahemetnesu\" (The King's Wife). The possible candidates are Nefertiti, Meritaten, and Ankhesenamun. Ankhesenamun once seemed likely since there were no candidates for the throne on the death of her husband, Tutankhamun, whereas Akhenaten had at least two legitimate successors. but this was based on a 27-year reign for the last 18th dynasty pharaoh Horemheb who is now accepted to have had a shorter reign of only 14 years. This makes the deceased Egyptian king appear to be Akhenaten instead rather than Tutankhamun. Furthermore, the phrase regarding marriage to 'one of my subjects' (translated by some as 'servants') is possibly either a reference to the Grand Vizier Ay or a secondary member of the Egyptian royal family line. Since Nefertiti was depicted as powerful as her husband in official monuments smiting Egypt's enemies, she might be the Dakhamunzu in the Amarna correspondence as Nicholas Reeves believes.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56978824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56978824", "title": "Peter Kwasniewski", "text": "Peter Kwasniewski\n\nPeter Andrew Kwasniewski (born 22 March 1971) is a traditionalist Catholic writer and composer of sacred music. He is a Senior Fellow of the St. Paul Center in Steubenville, Ohio, and was formerly on the faculty of Wyoming Catholic College. He is also the author of three books about traditional Catholicism: \"Resurgent in the Midst of Crisis\"; \"Noble Beauty, Transcendent Holiness\"; and \"Tradition and Sanity\".\n\nKwasniewski was born 22 March 1971 in Arlington Heights, Illinois. He grew up in New Jersey. At the Delbarton School in Morristown, he received his first serious tutelage in music. After a year at Georgetown University, Kwasniewski matriculated as a freshman at Thomas Aquinas College in California, where he earned a B.A. in Liberal Arts in 1994. He subsequently studied at The Catholic University of America, focusing on ancient Greek philosophy and medieval scholasticism. He received his M.A. in Philosophy in 1996, writing a thesis on \"The Dialectic of Reason and Faith in Descartes’s “Meditationes de prima philosophia,”\" and his Ph.D. in the same discipline in 2002, with a dissertation on \"The Ecstasy of Love in Thomas Aquinas.\"\n\nHe served as Assistant Professor of Philosophy from 1998 to 2006 at the International Theological Institute for Studies on Marriage and Family in Austria (then in the town of Gaming) and as an adjunct instructor in music appreciation at the Franciscan University of Steubenville’s Austria Program located on the same campus. In the summer of 2006, he joined the founding team of Wyoming Catholic College in Lander, Wyoming, where he served as Assistant Academic Dean and Director of Admissions, and then as Choirmaster and Professor of Theology and Philosophy. He also taught music and art history in the College’s fine arts curriculum.\n\nAt the end of the academic year of 2017–18, Kwasniewski left Wyoming Catholic College. He accepted the title of Senior Fellow of the St. Paul Center in Steubenville, Ohio, and is currently working as an independent writer, editor, publisher, and guest lecturer, giving talks and workshops on the traditional liturgy of the Catholic Church.\n\nKwasniewski is a board member and scholar of The Aquinas Institute in Green Bay, Wisconsin, which is publishing the \"Opera Omnia\" of the Angelic Doctor, and a Fellow of the Albertus Magnus Center for Scholastic Studies.\n\nKwasniewski's books, lectures, and articles have meet with both considerable praise and opposition. Major prelates and Catholic magazines and websites have praised Kwasniewski for his insights into the crisis in the Church, while others have criticized him for insubordination to the present wishes of Church leaders. Some, like Fr. Anthony Ruff, OSB, of the PrayTell blog, have criticized Kwasniewski for an intransigent defense of traditional things, especially preconciliar, and for his apparent rejection of the reforms intended by the Second Vatican Council. Ruff, in particular, argues that Kwasniewski depends excessively on the Council of Trent, whose doctrine was completed and corrected by Vatican II. Jonathan Daly maintains that Kwasniewski's vocal preference for traditional worship is itself characteristically modern because it is a lifestyle and worldview choice over against other options that have more to recommend them, such as the contemporary magisterium. Support for Kwasniewski's positions and writings has also been substantial. In 2016, the international Catholic TV station EWTN broadcast a TV interview with Kwasniewski on their popular \"EWTN Live\" channel and also began carrying his book \"Resurgent in the Midst of Crisis\" in their online catalog. That same year, TV Infobar made available the video of the book launch of the Czech translation of \"Resurgent,\" at which Cardinal Burke introduced the book, calling it \"very readable and very accessible\" and thanking Kwasniewski \"for giving us this work.\" Other positive publicity for this book included \"The New Oxford Review\", which claims that \"Kwasniewski accurately sums up the current situation in the Church\" and that \"Resurgent\" is \"a starting point for serious discussion\" for \"revitalizing the Church\".\n\nHis book, \"Noble Beauty, Transcendent Holiness,\" was praised by \"The Catholic Herald\", a major British newspaper, and \"National Review\", both of which published favorable reviews of it. Fr. Zuhlsdorf also reviewed the book favorably, claiming that \"He writes with clarity and great force, which surely reflect both his deft mind and his convictions.\"\n\nIn 2016, it was revealed that Kwasniewski was among the clergy and theologians who signed the \"Letter of the 45\", a letter to all the Catholic Cardinals which asked them to \"respond to the dangers to Catholic faith and morals\" that Pope Francis' \"Amoris Laetitia\" posed. Kwasniewski was also a signatory of a Letter in support of the Four Dubia Cardinals.\n\nIn addition to being a teacher and writer, Kwasniewski has enjoyed a parallel career as a choirmaster, cantor, and composer of about 150 works of music.\n\nAfter studying composition and conducting with Roy Horton and voice with Carol Horton at Delbarton School in Morristown, New Jersey, Kwasniewski became assistant choir director at Thomas Aquinas College in Santa Paula, California (1990–1994). He served as director of the Schola Cantorum at Old St. John’s Catholic Church in Silver Spring, Maryland (1994–1998), director of music at the International Theological Institute in Gaming, Austria (1999–2006), and founding choirmaster and schola director at Wyoming Catholic College (2007–2018).\n\nKwasniewski’s Mass settings, motets, hymns, carols, antiphons, and acclamations have received numerous performances from 1990 to the present. His Mass settings include \"Missa Spiritus Domini\" (1994), \"Missa Spe Salvi\" (1995, rev. 2012), \"Missa Brevis\" à 3 (1997), \"Missa Hereditas Mihi\" à 3 (2016), and \"Missa Honorificentia Populi Nostri\" (2017). His \"Seven Mandatum Antiphons\" (2010) were dedicated to Arvo Pärt on the occasion of his 75th birthday; the maestro personally accepted the dedication. Many of these works can be found in his book \"Sacred Choral Works,\" which was highly acclaimed when it first appeared in 2014. Ensembles that have performed Kwasniewski's choral music include the Ecclesia Choir (dir. Timothy Woods), the Vittoria Ensemble (dir. Rick Wheeler), the Scottish ensemble \"Cantiones Sacrae\" (dir. Graeme Adamson), and Cantus Magnus (dir. Matthew Schellhorn).\n\nKwasniewski has also written a three-movement wind quintet \"Fire and Flame,\" premiered by the Antero Winds in 2012; an \"Ave Maria\" for SATB, winds, and strings; a violin sonata; organ accompaniments for English plainchant; and pieces for brass quartet and string quartet.\n\nHe has published numerous articles on music, especially on the recovery and renewal of sacred music in the contemporary Church.\n\n\"Resurgent in the Midst of Crisis\" has been published in Czech, Polish, German, and Portuguese editions, and will be appearing in Spanish and Belarusian:\n\nKwasniewski writes for a number of tradition-friendly or traditionalist weblogs, including New Liturgical Movement (weekly since 2013), Rorate Caeli (since 2014), OnePeterFive (since 2014), and LifeSite News (since 2017). Including academic publications as well as popular writing, he has published over 1,000 articles on Thomistic thought, sacramental and liturgical theology, the history and aesthetics of music, and the social doctrine of the Church.\n"}
{"id": "10158642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10158642", "title": "Ramdasia", "text": "Ramdasia\n\nThe Ramdasia are a Sikh sub-group that has originated from the Hindu caste of weavers known as Julaha. According to Paul Ghuman, Ramdasias are also Chamars who have converted to Sikhism.\n\nH. S. Singha says that \"Ramdasia is a term used in general for Sikhs whose ancestors belonged to backward classes. Originally it meant the descendants and followers of Ramdas who belonged to the weaver (Julaha) community\". Julaha Sikhs are also known as the Khalsa biradar (brother of the Khalsa).\n\nGerald Parsons says that \"Ravidasis are to be distinguished from the Ramdasias who also belonged to the Chamar caste in Punjab but who were converted to the Sikh community, according to tradition, during the guruship of Ram Das\". Kalsi notes that some Chamar's claim to have been Julahas but then reverted to be Chamar. \"We are all Chamars (landless labourers and leather workers) - some families chose to take up weaving, they were known as Julahas. My ancestors were weavers, but they reverted to shoe-making during the war. We have common \"gots\" and our houses are located on one side of the villages.\"\n\nHe further notes that Julaha social status is higher than that of Chamars and that Julahas do not marry outside of their endogamous group.\n\nRamdasia's are a Scheduled Caste and prefer to be called Sikh only.\n\nThe word Ramdasia, has also been associated with masands or preachers that were appointed by the Sikh Guru Ram Das.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2175303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2175303", "title": "Russell Peters", "text": "Russell Peters\n\nRussell Dominic Peters (born September 29, 1970) is a Canadian stand-up comedian and actor. He began performing in Toronto in 1989 and won a Gemini Award in 2008. In 2013, he was number three on \"Forbes\" list of the world's highest-paid comedians, and became the first comedian to get a Netflix stand-up special. He also won the Peabody Award and the International Emmy Award for Best Arts Programming for producing \"Hip-Hop Evolution\" (2016). He currently lives in Los Angeles.\n\nPeters was born in Toronto, Ontario to Eric and Maureen Peters. When he was four, the family moved to the suburb of Brampton. His older brother Clayton now serves as his manager. Peters was raised Catholic and is of Anglo-Indian descent. His late father was born in Mumbai, Maharashtra, India and worked in Toronto as a professor of Applied Physics at the University of Toronto. Peters regularly features stories about him in his comedy work.\n\nPeters attended Chinguacousy Secondary School for grades 9–10, and North Peel Secondary School in Bramalea for grades 11–12. In school, he was regularly bullied because of his ethnicity. He eventually learned boxing, which helped him resist the bullying.\n\nPeters also became a hip hop \"junkie\" in his youth. By the 1990s, he was a well-connected disc jockey in the Toronto scene.\n\nPeters began performing in Toronto in 1989. He has since gone on to perform in several countries worldwide.\n\nIn 1992, Peters met American comedian George Carlin, one of his biggest influences, who advised him to get on stage whenever and wherever possible. Peters said he \"took that advice to heart, and I think that's the reason I am where I am now.\" In 2007, 15 years later, he hosted one of Carlin's last shows before Carlin's death the following year.\n\nPeters credits his 2004 performance on the Canadian TV comedy show \"Comedy Now!\", which was uploaded onto YouTube and became viral, as the turning point in his career. While the initial video upload featured his entire 45-minute performance, YouTube users subsequently uploaded segments of the performance in which Peters focused on individual cultural groups. According to Peters, those segments made their way to the \"targeted\" cultural groups and were well received by them. The video and its viral nature was referred to by Peters on his performance, \"Outsourced\"; when the audience cheered when he referred to earlier jokes, he exclaimed, \"Look at you, you filthy downloaders!\"\n\nIn 2017, Peters made an appearance on \"Top Gear America\" in the third episode of Season 1 as one of the guests.\n\nIn 2007, Peters was the first comedian to sell out Toronto's Air Canada Centre, selling more than 16,000 tickets in two days for the single show. He ended up selling more than 30,000 tickets nationally over the two-day sales period. He broke a UK comedy sales record at London's O2 Arena when he sold over 16,000 tickets to his show in 2009. His show in Sydney on 15 May 2010 had an audience of 13,880, making it the largest stand-up comedy show ever in Australia. Peters's performances on May 5–6, 2012 in Singapore also set attendance records for a single stand-up comedian at the Singapore Indoor Stadium.\n\nPeters hosted the Canada Day Comedy Festival 2006, and participated in a USO tour of Iraq, Afghanistan, Germany, Africa and Greenland in November 2007 with Wilmer Valderrama and Mayra Veronica. He also produced and starred in the radio situation comedy series \"Monsoon House\" on CBC Radio One.\n\nPeters was the host of the televised 2008 Juno Awards ceremonies in Calgary on April 6, 2008, for which he won a Gemini Award for \"Best Performance or Host in a Variety Program or Series\". The show received the second-highest ratings of any Juno Awards broadcast. Following the show's success, Peters accepted an invitation to host the Juno Awards for a second consecutive year; the 2009 Juno Awards took place in Vancouver on March 29, 2009.\n\nOn September 28, 2013, Peters was awarded the 2013 Trailblazer award by the Association of South Asians in Media, Marketing and Entertainment (SAMMA) for his contributions to the world of comedy. He is among the first South Asians to achieve international success in the field.\n\nPeters released his debut comedy album, \"Outsourced\", of his performance aired on Comedy Central on August 26, 2006. The DVD version is uncensored; it has sold more than 100,000 copies, and remained on the National DVD Chart over one and a half years after its release. Peters released a second DVD/CD combo, \"Red, White and Brown\", in Canada in 2008, and in the U.S. in early 2009. It was recorded on February 2, 2008, at the WAMU Theatre in Madison Square Garden in New York City. It was self-produced and financed by Peters and his brother Clayton. In May 2011, Peters released \"The Green Card Tour: Live from the O2 Arena\", a live performance recorded in front of a total audience of 30,000, over two nights at O2 Arena in London, England. The show was directed by Dave Higby, who produced \"Outsourced\".\n\nOn October 26, 2010, Peters published his autobiography, \"Call Me Russell\", co-written with his brother Clayton and Dannis Koromilas.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", Peters earned an estimated $15 million between June 2009 and June 2010, continuing his run as one of the highest-paid comedians, after earning an estimated $5 million the prior year. \"Forbes\" ranked him as the third-highest-paid comedian. In 2013, he earned $21 million, according to \"Forbes\" estimate.\n\nPeters's stand-up performances feature observational comedy, using humour to highlight racial, ethnic, class and cultural stereotypes. He often refers to his own experiences growing up in an Anglo-Indian family, and impersonates the accents of various ethnic groups to poke fun at them. As he told an audience in San Francisco, \"I don't make the stereotypes, I just see them.\" In a 2006 interview with \"The National,\" Peters observed that he did not intend to put down or offend different races and cultures, but tried to \"raise them up through humour\".\n\nPeters is widely known for his punchline, \"Somebody gonna get a hurt real bad.\" It ends a joke he tells about his childhood with a traditional Indian father, who used corporal punishment on his sons. Another punchline he uses is \"Be a man! Do the right thing!\", which relates to a story of a Chinese man trying to get him to pay more for an item at a shop.\n\nWhen interviewer Larry King asked Peters, \"Is there such a thing as too taboo?\", Peters replied, \"I don't talk about religion because I think people are a little weird about religion, especially nowadays, and I'm more of a science guy than I am a beliefs guy. I'm more into facts than I am into beliefs.\" In an interview with \"Al Jazeera\", Peters said he \"refuses\" to talk about religion.\n\nPeters dated Sunny Leone, a former porn star, who has been a Bollywood actress since 2008. He was in a relationship with her before she began shooting boy-girl scenes in 2007, which led to their breakup.\n\nHe proposed to girlfriend Monica Diaz on July 10, 2010 at the Los Angeles International Airport and announced their engagement via Twitter. The couple married on August 20, 2010 at A Little White Wedding Chapel in Las Vegas, Nevada. The wedding was attended by about 20 guests, including an Elvis impersonator. Soon after, Peters told \"The Canadian Press\" that Diaz was pregnant, saying, \"Did I get married because she was knocked up? I would say that expedited it.\" Their daughter Crystianna Marie Peters was born two months early on December 14, 2010.\n\nIn a March 2012 interview, Peters revealed that he and Diaz were divorcing. , he was engaged to Ruzanna Khetchian.\n\nPeters lives in Los Angeles, California and owns two homes there. He also owns homes in Las Vegas and Vaughan, Ontario.\n\nIn 2010 Peters established the Russell Peters North Peel Scholarship, an award worth up to $21,000 and intended to finance up to three years of college. It will be awarded annually to a student from Judith Nyman Secondary School (formerly North Peel) with a strong academic record and the intention of attending college.\n\nRussell Peters has appeared in many films. He acted in the Punjabi-Canadian \"Breakaway\" (2011), alongside Camilla Belle, Anupam Kher, and Vinay Virmani. That year he also acted in Duncan Jones's \"Source Code\" (2011) as Max, an amateur comedian with a bad attitude; and as Pervius in \"\" (2011).\n\nHe appeared in \"Senior Skip Day\" (2008), which starred Larry Miller, Tara Reid, and Gary Lundy. That year he was also in \"The Take\" (2008) as Dr. Sharma. Earlier he had cameo roles in \"Boozecan\" (1994) as Snake's Friend, \"Tiger Claws III\" (2000) as Detective Elliott, \"My Baby's Daddy\" (2004) as the obstetrician, and \"Quarter Life Crisis\" (2006) as Dilip Kumar.\n\nPeters has guest-starred on the TV series \"Mr. D\" as the school superintendent. In 2011, he starred in a Canadian TV Christmas special, \"A Russell Peters Christmas\". Guests included Michael Bublé, Pamela Anderson and Jon Lovitz. The show attracted the highest number of viewers of any CTV Canadian holiday special.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1861418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1861418", "title": "Satya Yuga", "text": "Satya Yuga\n\nThe Satya Yuga (Sanskrit: सत्य युग), also called Satyug, or Kṛta Yuga (Sanskrit: कृत युग) in Hinduism, is the first of the four Yugas, the \"\"Yuga\" (Age or Era) of Truth\", when humanity is governed by gods, and every manifestation or work is close to the purest ideal and humanity will allow intrinsic goodness to rule supreme. It is sometimes referred to as the \"Golden Age\". The Satya Yuga lasts 1,728,000 years. The goddess Dharma (depicted in the form of a cow), which symbolises morality, stood on all four legs during this period. Later on in the Treta Yuga, it would become three, followed by two in the Dvapara Yuga. Currently, in the immoral age of Kali, it stands on one leg.\n\nThe Yugas are said to succeed each other almost endlessly. After the perfect Satya Yuga, a decline marks the \"Treta Yuga\". Further decline brings about the \"Dwapara Yuga\", and after it comes the final and dark \"Kali Yuga\", a time of wickedness, when man kills another man. At the end of the cycle Kalki is said to take birth and reestablish righteousness, thus beginning a new Satya Yuga.\n\n...as described in the Mahabharata, a Hindu epic:\n\nAmongst the four eras, the Satya Yuga is the first and the most significant one. Knowledge, meditation, and penance hold special importance in this era. All the pillars of Dharma are present in totality. During Satya Yuga, all people engage only in good, sublime deeds. Ashrams become devoid of wickedness and deceit. Natyam (such as Bharatanatyam), according to Natya Shastra, did not exist in the Satya Yuga \"because it was the time when all people were happy\". \nThis Yuga extends up to 1,728,000 years. Lord Vishnu incarnated in four forms i.e. Matsya, Kurma, Varaha and Narsimha in this era.The only text which was considered credible and was followed was Manu’s Dharma Shastra. The average life expectancy of a human being in Satya Yuga was approximately 4000 years.\n\nThe Vaishya (traders) of this era shall engage in trade and business very justly and honestly. Brahmins shall be engaged continually in religious sacrifices, study, teaching, charity etc. The Kshatriya (warriors) shall be inclined towards the exhibition of valiance and might. The Shudras shall sincerely serve the Brahmins, Kshatriyas and Vaishyas. This form of religion shall remain intact and absolute in the Satya Yuga.\n\nOne shall witness the total establishment of Sanatan Dharma (eternal religion). All the deities, demons, Gandharvas, and Yaksha would give up their hatred and differences. The Rik, Sama and Yajurveda were not separate and demarcated. This era was devoid of agricultural activities or any other type of activity. Just by mere contemplation one would beget desired results. People in this era would never fall ill. No one would try to point out faults or demerits in anyone’s personality. The personality was not plagued by demerits like ego, sorrow, violent thought (aggression), jealousy, hatred, backbiting, fear, anger and lethargy.\n\nAt that time, the colour of the Supreme cosmic soul that was situated in the heart of one and all and the saviour of all the sages was white.\n\nAll the people that are Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas and Shudras were embellished with all the good qualities. People would practice austerities and penance to attain Brahman. All would be inclined towards the supreme knowledge and all actions performed would be in the intention of attaining celestial bliss.\n\nIn this way all these divine people would be bestowed with sublime faith and piousness. Albeit, people were segregated on the basis of the Varnashram method, they would all response their faith in the Vedas and the Sanatan Dharma because these people were devoid of selfishness, and they would effortlessly attain sublimity or union with God, which is a salient feature of Satya Yuga. Very valiant, mighty, intelligent and people gifted with all good qualities would be born in this era. They would surprisingly give birth to thousands of children. Great sages embellished with divinity would be born in this era.\n\nThe tenth avatar of the Lord Vishnu in the current Mahayuga is foretold to appear at the end of Kali Yuga, the current epoch. The Purana scriptures foretell that Kalki will be atop a white horse with a drawn blazing sword. He is the harbinger of the end time in Hindu eschatology, after which he will usher in Satya Yuga.\n\nKalki can only be the one whose Birthday/Tithi falls on Dvadasi of Sukla Paksha. This amounts to just 12 days per any given year; furthermore, as it can only be the day of the Lord Sri Maha Vishnu (Chaitra Dwadashi), this amounts to just one day each year or 100 days in the last century.\n\nIndian astrologers have analysed Puranas extensively to try to foretell the time of Kalki's birth. The signs described in the Kalki Purana are as follows:\n\nThe Puranas describe the date as twenty-one fortnights from the birth of Krishna, which itself falls on Janmashtami in August. This would put his descent at Vaishakha, between April and May. At this time, the father of Kalki is foretold to be overwhelmed by the incarnation of Godhead that he sees as his son. This places Kalki under the sun sign of Aries or Taurus.\n\nThe Bhavishya Purana foretells:\n\nThere have been a range of dates predicted, purportedly from different methods of calculation. Sri Potuluri Virabrahmendra Swami, for example, wrote 400 years ago in his \"Divya Maha Kalagnanam,\" or 'Divine Knowledge of the Time,' that Kalki would arrive when the moon, sun, Venus and Jupiter entered the same sign. This is not a rare occurrence and last happened in early 2012, passing without event. The time of Kalki's arrival has not been consistently asserted by astrologers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2348501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348501", "title": "TT188", "text": "TT188\n\nTomb TT188, located in the necropolis of El-Khokha in Thebes in Egypt, is the tomb of the Steward and King's Cupbearer Parennefer. It has been excavated by the Akhenaten Temple Project.\n\nIt is one of the few tombs in the Theban necropolis that was carved and decorated solely during the early years of the rule of Akhenaten. The tomb is decorated with sculpted scenes, some of which were painted. The scenes were all badly damaged and the name of Parennefer was carefully removed. The decoration includes harvest scenes, the presentation of temple-staves at the inauguration of Akhenaten, and an award scene showing Parennefer before the royal couple. In the tomb Akhenaten goes by his initial name Amenhotep (IV).\n\nThe scenes in the tomb may be the first to show Queen Nefertiti. An unnamed royal woman accompanies Akhenaten as he worships the Aten and sits besides the king in a scene showiwing Parennefer before his king and queen. The queen is thought to be Nefertiti.\n\nThe scenes in the tomb of Parennefer show some of the earliest examples of Amarna style depictions. The figures show the rounded form that will become typical in Amarna art, and courtiers are shown bending from the waist with their arms hanging down.\n\nMummies, coffins and other remains show that the tomb was later reused during the 21st and 22nd dynasties, and robber tunnels have led the way to new and unrecorded tombs, whose entrances cannot be located from outside. \n\nBy tracing the multiple robber tunnels that enter the tomb, other previously unknown tombs have been located close by. These include a small painted tomb from the Ramesside period, one from the 18th Dynasty, and a tomb of the 25th Dynasty. This last tomb entrance way is constructed of mud-brick, has a large open court, and a long corridor with a series of chambers and deep shafts excavated in the bedrock. \n\nParennefer also had a tomb (no 7) constructed at Amarna.\n"}
{"id": "33665118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33665118", "title": "Tarakeswar affair", "text": "Tarakeswar affair\n\nThe Tarakeswar affair (also known as the Tarakeswar scandal or the Mahant-Elokeshi affair) refers to a public scandal in 19th-century Bengal during the British Raj. It resulted from an illicit love affair between Elokeshi, the wife of a government employee Nobin Chandra, and the Brahmin head priest (or \"mahant\") of the Tarakeswar Shiva temple. Nobin subsequently decapitated his wife Elokeshi because of the love affair. A highly publicised trial followed, dubbed the Tarakeswar murder case of 1873, in which both the husband and the \"mahant\" were found guilty in varying degrees.\n\nBengali society considered the \"mahant\"s actions as punishable and criminal, while justifying Nobin's action of killing an unchaste wife. The resulting public outrage forced authorities to release Nobin after two years. The scandal became the subject of Kalighat paintings and several popular Bengali plays, which often portrayed Nobin as a devoted husband. The \"mahant\" was generally presented as a womaniser, who took advantage of young women. The murder victim Elokeshi was sometimes blamed as a seductress and the root cause of the affair. In other plays, she was absolved of all guilt and was portrayed to have been tricked and raped by the \"mahant\". \n\nElokeshi, the sixteen-year-old housewife of the Bengali government employee Nobin Chandra (Nobinchandra/Nabinchandra/Nobin Chandra) Banerjee, lived in the village of Tarakeswar with her parents, while Nobin was away for work in a military press in Calcutta. She approached Madhavchandra Giri, the \"powerful\" \"mahant\" of the popular and prosperous Tarakeswar temple, seeking fertility medication; however the \"mahant\" allegedly seduced and raped her. An affair began with the \"connivance\" of Elokeshi's parents.\n\nWhen Nobin returned to the village, he learned about the affair from village gossip. Nobin was publicly humiliated following the discovery of the affair. He confronted Elokeshi, who confessed and begged him for forgiveness. Not only did Nobin forgive her but he decided to run away with her from Tarakeswar. However, the \"mahant\" did not allow the couple to escape; his goons blocked their way. Overcome with anger and jealousy, Nobin slit his wife's throat with a fish knife, decapitating her, on 27 May 1873. Full of remorse, Nobin surrendered to the local police station and confessed his crime.\n\nThe \"Tarakeswar murder case of 1873\" (Queen \"vs\" Nobin Chandra Banerjee) first stood in the Hoogly Sessions Court at Serampore in south-west Bengal. The Indian jury acquitted Nobin, accepting his plea of insanity, but the British judge Field overruled the jury's decision and forwarded the matter to the Calcutta High Court. However, Judge Field accepted that there was an adulterous relationship between Elokeshi and the \"mahant\", with whom she was seen \"joking and flirting\". Judge Markby, who presided over the case in the High Court, also accepted the evidence proving adultery. The High Court convicted both Nobin and the \"mahant\". Nobin was sentenced to life imprisonment; the \"mahant\" got 3 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of 2000 rupees.\n\nThe newspaper \"Bengalee\" remarked: \"People flock to the Sessions Court as they would flock to the Lewis Theatre to watch \"Othello\" being performed\". The courtroom drama became a public spectacle. Authorities had to charge an entrance fee to control the crowds at the Hoogly Sessions Court. The right of admission was also restricted to those literate in English, citing that the \"mahant\"'s British lawyer and the judge only spoke in English.\n\nThe overruling of the Indian jury's decision by the Sessions Court judge was heavily debated. According to Swati Chattopadhyay (author of \"Representing Calcutta: Modernity, Nationalism and the Colonial Uncanny\"), the court proceedings were seen as an interference by the British in local matters. The court represented a conflict between village and city, the priest and \"bhadralok\" (Bengali gentleman class) and the colonial state and nationalist subjects. The court proceedings were disturbed several times by crowds demanding clemency for Nobin or stringency for the \"mahant\". The \"mahant\" and his English lawyer were often attacked outside the court. The \"mahant's\" punishment was termed lenient by the Bengali public. Nobin was released in 1875, following several public petitions for pardon. Such pleas came from members of the Calcutta elite and district town notables, local royals and \"acknowledged leaders of native society\", as well as from the \"lower middle class\"—from whom a 10,000-signature mercy plea was received.\nThe 1873 \"mahant\"–Elokeshi incident was not the first incident against a \"mahant\" of Tarakeswar. \"Mahant\" Shrimanta Giri was executed in 1824 for the murder of his mistress's lover. However, according to Sarkar (author of \"Hindu wife, Hindu nation\"), while the 1824 scandal hardly created any public outrage and faded quickly from public memory, the 1873 affair was embedded in public memory and created a huge sensation in contemporary Bengal. When a \"satyagraha\" was organised against the reigning \"mahant\" of Tarakeswar, Satish Giri, in 1974 for his sexual and financial misconduct, the 1873 affair was alluded to several times.\n\nA regional daily reported that the \"mahant\"'s affair with Elokeshi was still discussed by the common people of Bengal, who did not know of other current affairs, even six months after the murder. Bengali newspapers followed the court trial on a day-to-day basis, often reporting it verbatim and capturing the responses of all parties involved: judges, jury, lawyers and the common man. The \"culpability\" of each of the characters of the scandal was debated, and British justice and Hindu norms were analysed, especially by British-owned newspapers. While Missionaries interpreted the public outcry against the \"mahant\" as the \"disenchantment\" of the Hindus, British-owned newspapers also pondered over the question of asserting more control on Hindu temples and organisations. In an era when Hindu reform movements were blossoming in Bengal, the scandal led the reformist as well as orthodox society to re-examine \"the relationship between Hindu norms, leaders and women\".\n\nMany products were specially manufactured to commemorate the event. Saris, fish knives, betel-leaf boxes and other memorabilia with Elokeshi's name printed or inscribed on them were made. A balm for headache was advertised as using the oil made by the \"mahant\" in the jail oil press. Such commemorative items were still in sale in as late as 1894. These items were unique in the sense that they were the only such commemorative items modelled on an event.\n\nAt least 34 farces were published by the \"popular press\" on the events of the Tarakeswar affair—the rape, the murder and the trial. At least four of these were reprinted several times. This is the largest number of 19th-century farces in Bengal created in response to a contemporary event. Farces and plays of the era were often inspired by the real courtroom drama. At least 19 plays were also based on the scandal, all of which became very popular and big money-makers; especially \"Mohanter Ei ki Kaj!\" became a huge hit on stage. Plays written as late as 1924 referred to the affair as if it was common public knowledge. \n\nNumerous Kalighat paintings and Battala woodwork prints—created in the decade after the scandal—depicted the \"immoral\" affair, the gruesome murder and the resultant trial. According to Chattopadhyay (author of \"Representing Calcutta: modernity, nationalism, and the colonial uncanny\"), it was the popularity of the plays combined with \"the rhetoric of sin and morality\" that inspired Kalighat painters to present this \"tragedy as a spectacle\". Kalighat painters often chose to paint mythological themes and Bengali day-to-day life; the paintings on the Tarakeswar affair were a unique exception.\n\nOften painted as a series, the Kalighat paintings depict various scenes related to the affair: the \"mahant\" riding on an elephant \"howdah\"; \"The Meeting of Elokeshi and the mahant\"—Elokeshi goes to the temple with her sister and meets the \"mahant\"; \"The Seduction\"—Elokeshi offering \"paan\" (betel nut leaf), the \"mahant\" fans Elokeshi and/or the \"mahant\" offering her childbirth medicine in order to drug her before raping her; Elokeshi embracing Nobin and asking his forgiveness; the three stages of the murder such as \"The Fatal/First Blow\" (Nobin about to decapitate Elokeshi with a fish knife) and \"After the murder\" (Nobin with the decapitated body of Elokeshi). The Kalighat paintings also depict a courtroom scene of the trial of the \"mahant\" followed by the \"mahant\" in jail, enduring rigorous labour turning an oil press or working as a jail gardener, while jail guards or the superintendent watch over him.\n\nThe plays and the paintings suggested the theme of loss of traditional Indian culture in the face of colonialism.\n\nMost accounts agree that Nobin loved his wife dearly, evidenced by the fact that he was ready to accept his wife at first and run away with her, even after knowledge of the affair. In an era where the chastity of a wife was highly valued, Nobin's blind love and acceptance of a guilty wife were deemed inappropriate by a large section of society. Her murder was considered justifiable. Some songs criticise Nobin's stupidity of trying to save his adulterous wife and thereby risking his own life. Police reports, confirming Nobin's love, read that after the murder, Nobin rushed to the police saying: \"Hang me quick. This world is wilderness to me. I am impatient to join my wife in the next [world/life]\", a line reported verbatim in newspapers as well as used in plays and songs. Some public petitions argued that given a choice to leave Elokeshi in the arms of the \"mahant\" to live a life of dishonour—which was worse than death—and to kill her, like a true husband, Nobin chose the latter to end her misery. However, some plays portray that Nobin has a mistress in town so leaves his wife in the village.\nMost of the plays were named to suggest the main crime was not Elokeshi's murder by Nobin, but the immoral activities of the \"mahant\". The \"mahant\" is portrayed as the root cause of Elokeshi's death, which was an \"inevitable conclusion\" of the \"mahant\" 's activities. Elokeshi, \"the object of desire\", had to be killed by Nobin to restore his honour. Titles of such plays reinforce the theme and focus on the \"mahant\"'s crime. Examples include: \"Mohanter Chakrabhraman\", \"Mohanter Ki Saja\", \"Mohanter Karabash\" and \"Mohanter Ei Ki Dasha\".\n\nThe Kalighat paintings and Battala woodcuts often depict the \"mahant\" as a womaniser and the temple as \"a haven for pimps\". He was also described as \"a vile seducer\". The Tarakeswar shrine was a famed cure for barren women. The \"mahant\" was rumoured to seduce women like Elokeshi who came to him for childbirth medicine and appropriate them with the help of his goons. After being raped, the women could not return to their family and languished in the brothels of Tarakeswar. In most plays, the \"mahant\" is described as drugging Elokeshi—by offering fake childbirth medicine—and then raping her. In the play \"Mohanter Dafarafa\", a rare exception to the general theme of immorality in plays where the \"mahant\" misuses Elokeshi, his love is portrayed to be genuine and her seduction by him a resultant after-effect. However, later he is repentant.\n\nThe \"Bengalee\", a reformist newspaper, presents a rare view of the true victim Elokeshi being forgotten in the debate of the trial and sympathy towards Nobin. In the \"First Meeting\" painting, Elokeshi is sometimes depicted as a courtesan, indicating that she is the one who seduces the \"mahant\". She is often described as unchaste and to have developed the adulterous affair and even lived with him for some time despite the fact that he first rapes her. In one play, Elokeshi's character is debated by village wives and prostitutes. The wives vilify Elokeshi as an unchaste woman, question her devotion for Nobin and express the belief that a woman cannot be raped without her consent. The prostitutes empathise with Elokeshi, another victim of male lust and lament her fall from grace, which for them illustrates the brittle status of a wife. Some plays depict Elokeshi as having no choice but to surrender to the \"mahant\"'s lust on her father's command. Such plays concentrate more on scenes where Elokeshi gives in to her father's orders than on the depiction of rape.\n\nOne farce depicts a divine trial of not only Elokeshi and the \"mahant\", but also of her parents, who are portrayed as being equally guilty. Elokeshi is condemned for seducing the \"mahant\" and tarnishing the name of the holy shrine of Tarakeswar. The \"mahant\" is punished for misusing the authority and money of the temple. One newspaper describes Elokeshi's father as \"the still worse scoundrel (worse than the \"mahant\") who bartered his daughter's virtue\". In many plays, Elokeshi's father, who is now sexually incompetent, is driven by the greed of Elokeshi's young stepmother and he resorts to pleasing his wife by giving gifts like jewellery, for which he sells off his daughter to the \"mahant\". Elokeshi's staying at her parents' home—and not with her husband—is also blamed for their excessive control over her.\n"}
{"id": "35888933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35888933", "title": "Thattai Bhatias", "text": "Thattai Bhatias\n\nThathai Bhatias is a Rajput clan settled in India. This clan migrated to India from the Thatta District, Sindh after independence of Pakistan in 1947.\n\nGeographically, their origins are from Jaisalmer. The community was originally known as \"Bhattis\". After they dispersed from Jaisalmer post the Mughal invasion to north of Punjab, Kutch, Bahawalpur, Multan, and also to a place called Thatta in Sindh, the Bhattis started being identified with their respective geographies; for example, the Bhattis in Kutch became the \"Kutchi Bhatias\" and the Bhattis in Thatta became \"Thattai Bhatias\".\nThe language spoken by the Bhatias differ based on the geographical areas they settled into.Before India-Pakistan partition,Large sections of Thattai Bhatias, originally from Jaisalmer,had migrated to a place called Thatta, a small region landlocked around the borders of Sindh & Kutch regions.Thattai Bhatias speak Bhatia language which is unique in itself,however some words & dialects have influences similar to Kutchhi & Sindhi.This is primarily the reason why in the modern world many people mistakenly think Thattai Bhatias to be Sindhis. This Thatta area is now in Sindh province of Pakistan. Since,the origin of Thatta Bhatias , who follow Vaishnav sect,roots back to Jaisalmer,in Rajasthan their deity of religious worship is Shrinathji. The Kuldevi of Thattai Bhatia Sendhni Mataji - a form of Goddess Durga is mostly seen sitting on Camel,roots backs to its origin in Jaislamer. \nIn today's times one of the strongest clan of Bhatias found in UAE & middle eastern countries is Thattai Bhatias -some the richest & leading business holders, especially in Bahrain. The Thattai Bhatias were considered amongst the top three Indian communities undertaking trading relations with Bahrain, Qatar and Oman.\n\n"}
{"id": "6522910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6522910", "title": "The Christian Post", "text": "The Christian Post\n\nThe Christian Post is an American nondenominational, Evangelical Christian newspaper. Based in Washington, D.C., it was founded in March 2004. \n\nContents include Church news, ministries news, mission news, education news, Christian entertainment news, health-related news, opinions, U.S. news, and international news. Also featured are devotionals, cartoons, and videos. \n\nIts executive editor is Richard Land, president of Southern Evangelical Seminary, and president emeritus of the Southern Baptist Convention’s Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission. Christopher Chou is CEO.\n\nLaunched initially as an online publication, the newspaper was founded in March 2004. . The objective is to deliver news, information, and commentaries relevant to Christians across denominational lines and to bring greater attention to activities of Christians and Christian groups in United States and around the world. It moved its headquarters from San Francisco, California to Washington, D.C. in 2006. In 2017, the website has a monthly average of 10 million visits. \n\n\"The Christian Post\" is a Global Partner of the World Evangelical Alliance and a Member of the Evangelical Press Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "24867585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24867585", "title": "Union of Catholic Asian News", "text": "Union of Catholic Asian News\n\nThe Union of Catholic Asian News (UCAN) is a news agency that covers issues and matters of interest for the Catholic Church on the Asian continent. It was launched in Hong Kong in 1979. Since its foundation, it has become one of the largest Catholic news agencies in the world, as well as the largest in Asia. \n\nA principal goal of UCAN’s reporting is to bring the lives and experiences of Asian Catholics to their brothers and sisters in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. UCAN currently operates bureaus in Bangladesh, China, East Timor, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, South Korea, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Vietnam. \n\nUCAN operates foreign language sites in China, Indonesia, South Korea and Vietnam. It also operates two sites that offer local and international English language content in India and the Philippines. It hosts a Catholic directory for some Asian Countries where readers can get detailed information on the local dioceses.\n\n"}
{"id": "6481998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6481998", "title": "Walk Thru the Bible", "text": "Walk Thru the Bible\n\nWalk Thru the Bible Ministries (WTB) is a non-denominational evangelical Christian educational organization headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nWalk Thru the Bible was founded in the United States in 1976 by Bruce Wilkinson and Howard Hendricks. Its main purpose is to teach evangelical Christian biblical doctrines, primarily through an innovative seminar format, while providing additional resources through print, audio and video media productions. As a parachurch organization, Walk Thru the Bible works in cooperation with local churches who host and publicize the seminars to their congregations and surrounding communities.\n\nThe organization's non-traditional audience-participatory methodologies have resulted in rapid worldwide growth, with a WTB presence, by means of trained WTB seminar instructors, in over 90 countries. Borrowing from the business-world concept of the independent contractor or franchise, WTB trains \"Associate Instructors\" who then \"manage their own local ministry\" and interface with churches and private schools in their region to present the various WTB multimedia seminars.\n\nWTB's original goal was to train and equip one instructor for every 50,000 people, in every country of the world. More recently, this goal has been augmented with an effort to establish instructors connected to local churches in 1,000 high-density cities in various countries.\nWTB is reported to have trained over 100,000 instructors.\n\nAfter becoming a best-selling author, Wilkinson stepped down from leadership of WTB, and was succeeded as president by Chip Ingram in 2003. Ingram was later succeeded by Phil Tuttle, the current president.\n\nAt the National Religious Broadcasters' 2007 Annual Media Awards, WTB won an award for \"Best Ministry Website\".\n\n\n"}
