{"id": "34780584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34780584", "title": ".green", "text": ".green\n\nThe extension .green is a generic Top Level Domain (gTLD). The Internet Corporation of Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) delegated the .green extension to the Domain Name System (DNS) on June 19, 2014. The .green gTLD is used by individuals, communities, industries and environmental organizations showcasing their position in the green movement. .green websites support the spread of green awareness and information around the world. The .green TLD and those who use it promote the green economy, innovation and conservation. The organization donates a percentage of all sales and renewals of .green domain names to The DotGreen Foundation for the purpose of funding environmental sustainability projects for organizations worldwide.\n\n.green domain name registrations became available March 24, 2015 Nic.green/ went live at the end of 2014 and was the first ever .green website. DotGreen's main and current website, http://www.going.green/ went live January 26, 2015 .green domain names can be purchased at most online registrars around the world just like .com and .org.\n\nThe .green new Top Level Domain is under the stewardship of the DotGreen Community, Inc., which was formed for the purpose of bringing .green to the Internet through the New gTLD Program with the Internet Corporation of Assigned Names and Numbers, ICANN. DotGreen is a SF Bay Area company that works closely with one of the largest Registry Operators in the world, Afilias Limited in Dublin, Ireland.\n\nIn an article titled 5 ways Brands should be using new gTLDs, the author writes, \"brand owners should survey the entire space of new TLDs on a consistent basis to make sure that they register and use domains in meaningful spaces to connect with consumers. For example, a company like Patagonia should consider the idea of owning the domain www.patagonia.green. The brand could use the site to highlight its work in the \"green\" community. Additionally, Patagonia will be able to leverage the work that the .green gTLD is doing to connect with that community and make it a known quantity amongst consumers who want to support \"green\" initiatives.\" \n\nThe .green initiative began in 2007 after the Generic Names Supporting Organization, known as the GNSO completed the policy discussion about new gTLDs at the ICANN meeting in Los Angeles, 2007. (Aside from .Berlin proposed during an earlier round) .green was the first of what later became 1409 gTLDs and amounted to the greatest domain name expansion of the Internet since its inception. .green is the world's first environmental TLD proposed to both Internet and Environmental communities. It was founded in the San Francisco Bay Area by a member of the green movement, a stay at home mother with four children. The .green initiative was originally built around a California not for profit organization called The DotGreen Foundation, established for this purpose by Ms. Annalisa Roger in 2007, and incorporated in 2008 as a Public Benefit Charity with U.S. 501 (c)3 Tax Exempt Status. It was unknown if and when the new gTLD Program would be written, approved, and implemented.\n\nParis, France, June 2008, ICANN announced the new gTLD Program and .green was at the forefront. At that time, the effort behind .green was run by volunteers as a not-for-profit initiative. A new group appeared with a second environmental Top Level Domain thought to be competition for .green. Later, an interesting reveal was discovered that the .eco group was backed by Al Gore and Sir Roger Moore. However, the .eco TLD soon became contentious when as many as three parties were interested in developing the .eco top-level domain as a for profit business. The volunteers behind DotGreen established a website and traveled internationally following ICANN meetings to spread awareness, growing support for .green from environmental, humanitarian, and Internet communities.\n\n2009, DotGreen contracted with Neustar for Registry Services and with EarthShare for global distribution of funds earned through .green domain name sales. The volunteer effort behind DotGreen was funded by two women, Annalisa Roger and another local mom, Ms. Jennifer Knoll. Their team participated at ICANN for three years working with the Internet community to forward the new gTLD program. It became necessary to find additional funding to support their team and for the .green initiative to survive the long, unknown timeline of ICANN's new gTLD program. In 2011, The DotGreen Community, Inc. a private corporation, was co-founded by DotGreen Foundation's Director, Annalisa Roger, Jennifer Knoll, joined by a local investor, Mr. Jeremy Coon who offered to raise investor funding. DotGreen Community, Inc. formed a partnership with the existing DotGreen Foundation and submitted the application to ICANN. According to Roger, the proposed gTLD stands for \"Global Response to Environmental and Economic Necessities\" (.GREEN). June 6, 2012, Singapore, Competition for .green surfaced at ICANN's Big Reveal when three Internet veterans positioned themselves at the last minute as .green applicants. All three had filed applications for large portfolios of other new gTLDs with ICANN.\n\nDotGreen Community, Inc., its supporters, and the global green community exercised all options within the framework of the new gTLD applicant guidebook program during every stage of ICANN's multi-stakeholder program over the following year and a half. This included an outpouring of public support where notable individuals and organizations posted fifty online comments and letters to the ICANN Public Comments Forum website, and wrote letters to both ICANN and the Governmental Advisory Committee (GAC) insisting that DotGreen Community gain the delegation of .green over the other applicants. No other .green applicant received a letter in favor of their .green applications.\n\nThe Czech Republic, a member of the Government Advisory Committee [GAC] wrote a letter to the ICANN Board in favor of DotGreen and issued a GAC Warning (an official part of the new gTLD program) stating: \"This early warning is for three applications for the string .green, they are: Top Level Domain Holdings Limited, United TLD Holdco, and Afilias Ltd. This early warning is based on concerns that these 3 applications are not directly involved or focused on the Global Public Benefit of the .green string.\" However, the ICANN Board did not respond to this GAC Early Warning nor the many pleas for public benefit posted in ICANN's online Public Forum. There were no GAC warnings issued to DotGreen Community's application.\n\nThe publicly traded companies, Top Level Domain Holdings Ltd. and Demand Media's affiliate known as United TLD Holdco Ltd. later traded under the name, Rightside and a third privately held Irish corporation, Afilias Limited planned a private auction to determine by way of the highest bidder, which one would gain the rights to manage the .green gTLD. Top Level Domain Holdings Limited (operating as Minds + Machines) was the well funded group seeking the .eco domain.\n\nDotGreen withdrew its application from ICANN for the .green gTLD in October 2013. In an article titled, \"DotGreen calls it quits with “impossible” gTLD auction looming\" the author writes, \"It seems the final decision was financial — the cost of delays and an auction too much for the start-up to bear. It’s a pity really — there was some genuine enthusiasm for the cause behind this bid.\" \n\nIn a letter, the Founder of .green wrote to the community she said, \"...the auction procedure [allowed by ICANN] disregarded DotGreen's long history in the green community, and ignored the authenticity of DotGreen's application, and the importance of public benefit which is in both the policies of the new gTLD program and stated in ICANN's bylaws.\" \n\nBloggers described the withdrawal as disappointing. The announcement came months before the fate of the .green TLD would be decided via ICANN’s auction process that saw companies with very deep pockets including Demand Media (Rightside), TLDH (Minds+Machines) and Afilias all vying to become the official .green registry.\n\nFebruary 2014, \"The industry headline was, Two more new gTLDs — .wedding and .green — were auctioned off, with proceeds amounting to millions of dollars.\" Afilias stood as the lone and winning applicant for .green (to go along with their other color TLDs .black, .blue, .pink, .red).\n\nOn Sept. 16, 2014 almost one year after DotGreen withdrew from the race, DotGreen Community, Inc. and Afilias announced a contracted relationship to bring the world's first gTLD for the growing green economy, businesses, social and environmental initiatives to the world.\n\nThe industry responded to the news with articles and headlines: DotGreen Community Inc. & Afilias Partnership Best gTLD Story of the Year and DotGreen Rises From the Ashes and DotGreen is back from the dead \n\nIndustry blogger, Kevin Murphy wrote, \"It appears to be a unique, first-of-its-kind relationship in the new gTLD space...Afilias will run the technical infrastructure of the registry, but the heavy-lifting of actually marketing the names falls on DotGreen...Given that DotGreen spent quite a lot of time in the run-up to the new gTLD application process building relationships with environmental groups, this could be an incredibly shrewd move by Afilias.\" \n\nA .green gTLD bearing no connection to the above is supported in the alternative DNS root Name.Space.\n"}
{"id": "38855482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38855482", "title": "2013 Anti–Sri Lanka protests", "text": "2013 Anti–Sri Lanka protests\n\nThe 2013 Anti–Sri Lanka protests are a series of student protests and agitations initiated by the Students Federation for Freedom of Tamil Eelam in Tamil Nadu, India, against war crimes committed against Sri Lankan Tamil people by Sri Lankan army during the Eelam War IV. The protesters demanded that the Government of India vote in support of a United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) resolution censuring the Government of Sri Lanka for war crimes. Some radical groups even demanded the prosecution of the President of Sri Lanka, Mahinda Rajapakse for his role in the alleged genocide of Sri Lankan Tamils. Apart from college students, doctors, film personalities and employees of IT companies also participated in the protests.\n\nThe agitations started on 11 March 2013 when eight students of Loyola College, Chennai, who fasted in condemnation of alleged atrocities committed on Tamils in Sri Lanka were arrested by the Tamil Nadu police. The arrest was criticised by student organisations as well as the Loyola College management and nine colleges across the city went on strike. The following protests see students from all over Tamil Nadu take into streets, it was a massive outrage of Tamil Nadu people and students against sinhala government after 1983 anti-Tamil pogrom. From school to colleges mass number of students participated in protest. Students from other states lik who are studying in Tamil Nadu colleges too participated. Numerous protests, rallies held in marina beach which saw huge number of students. The anger and anguish of students turned against DMK and Congress which is the ruling party during 2009 Eelam war. A statewide general strike declared on 12 March 2013 by the Tamil Eelam Supporters Organisation (TESO) evoked a mixed response with most of the political parties in the state keeping aloof alleging inaction on the part of the main participant Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) which was in power during the decisive stages of Eelam War IV. Student organisations called for statewide agitations on Monday, 18 March, forcing arts and science colleges in the state to close down for an indefinite period. As colleges and schools remained closed student groups organised protest through social media, Tamilandu people who themselves are sympathetic towards Sri Lankan Tamils sent their children to take part in the protests. As protests peaked in Tamil Nadu national and international media provided good coverage. One remarkable effect of this protest is DMK chief Karuna fearing students outrage pulled out of congress alliance, On 19 March DMK chief announced withdrawal from UPA alliance citing Congress disregard to the suffering of Eelam Tamil. When DMK pulled out of UPA it was well received by DMK supporters. Congress was isolated in Tamilandu in 2014 general elections it contested in 40 seats alone and lost in all constituencies. But ironically DMK formed alliance with congress again in May 2016 Tamil Nadu state elections showing its own colors.\n\nOn 18 March 2013, large-scale agitations were held outside Raj Bhavan, Chennai resulting in the arrest of over 500 students. A Sri Lankan Buddhist monk was attacked in the Brihadeeswara Temple, Thanjavur on 16 March 2013 and another at Chennai Central on 17 March 2013. The Government of Tamil Nadu declared the indefinite closure of 525 engineering colleges affiliated to the Anna University.\n\nOn 2 April 2013, actors from Tamil film industry staged a one-day token fast in support of student protests in Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe Tamil Nadu State Legislative Council passed legislation on 27 March 2013 urging the Indian Government to slap economic sanctions on Sri Lanka and demand for the formation of a separate state for the Tamils of Sri Lanka.\n\nThe resolution which was proposed by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalitha was unanimously passed at the Assembly. The resolution was passed following the debate in the Council regarding the ongoing statewide students protests in Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe resolution demanded the formation of a separate state in Sri Lanka, through the means of a referendum by a resolution at the UN Security Council which should be conducted among Tamils in Sri Lanka and other displaced Tamils across the world.\n\nMoving the resolution, Jayalalithaa said the ongoing students protest was reflective of her government's initiative on the Sri Lankan issue even as she requested them to withdraw the stir and resume classes.\n\nThe resolution also called on the Indian Government to stop considering Sri Lanka as a 'friendly country' and impose economic sanctions, as well as calling for an international inquiry in \"genocide and war crimes\" against Sri Lankan Tamils.\n\nOn 20 June 2013, during 2013 ICC Champions Trophy semi final match between India and Sri Lanka at the SWALEC Stadium in Cardiff, Tamil Eelam supporters invaded the pitch with the flags of the Tamil Eelam. After the match, at least 400 protesters held up the Sri Lankan team bus and raised anti-Sri Lankan government slogans.\n\n"}
{"id": "26265296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26265296", "title": "Agrarian Party (Tajikistan)", "text": "Agrarian Party (Tajikistan)\n\nThe Agrarian Party ( \"Hizbi Agrarii Tojikiston\", ) is a political party in Tajikistan. The chief of the APT is Amir Burievich Qaroqulov. The Agrarian Party of Tajikistan has nominated 22 candidates for parliamentary elections scheduled for 28 February 2010.\n"}
{"id": "7669293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7669293", "title": "Al Bandar report", "text": "Al Bandar report\n\nThe Al Bander report [Al Bandar] refers to an alleged political conspiracy by certain government officials in Bahrain to foment sectarian strife and marginalize the majority Shia community in the country. The conspiracy was allegedly led and financed by Ahmed bin Ateyatalla Al Khalifa, Minister of Cabinet Affairs and head of the Civil Informatics Organization and member of the Al Khalifa royal family. The allegations were revealed in September 2006, in a 240-page document produced by the Gulf Centre for Democratic Development, and authored by Dr Salah Al Bandar, an adviser to the Cabinet Affairs Ministry. Following the distribution of the report, Bahraini police forcibly deported Dr Al Bandar to the United Kingdom, where he holds citizenship.\n\nAccording to Dr Al Bander, the Minister in Bahrain paid five main operatives a total of more than $2.7 million to run:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "131245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=131245", "title": "Ambridge, Pennsylvania", "text": "Ambridge, Pennsylvania\n\nAmbridge is a borough in Beaver County, Pennsylvania, United States. Incorporated in 1905 as a company town by the American Bridge Company, Ambridge is located 16 miles (25 km) northwest of Pittsburgh, along the Ohio River. The population was 7,050 at the 2010 census.\n\nThe town is near the location of Legionville, the training camp for General \"Mad\" Anthony Wayne's Legion of the United States. Wayne's was the first attempt to provide basic training for regular U.S. Army recruits and Legionville was the first facility established expressly for this purpose.\n\nThe Harmony Society first settled the area in the early 19th century, founding the village of \"Ökonomie\" or Economy in 1824. Although initially successful, accumulating significant landholdings, the sect went into decline. By the end of the 19th century, only a few Harmonists remained. The Society was dissolved and its vast real estate holdings sold, much of it to the American Bridge Company, who subsequently enlarged the town and incorporated it as Ambridge in 1905.\n\nAmerican Bridge attracted thousands of immigrants who came to fulfill their dreams of work, freedom, and peace. The steel mills became the focal point of the town. Most of the employees were relatives of relatives and the small town grew, with wards separating the town into ethnic sections. In addition, many of the ethnicities had their own church, club, and musical group that sought to give immigrants a familiar place to be as well as to preserve their culture. Many were from Eastern and Southern Europe including Italian, Greek, Slovak, Croatian, Ukrainian, Polish, Slovene, and Carpartho-Rusyn to name a few.\n\nWith the growth of the steel mills, Ambridge became a worldwide leader in steel production. The borough became known for bridge building, metal molding, and the manufacture of tubes (large iron pipes). During World War II, the American Bridge Company fabricated steel for the building of LSTs (Landing Ship Tanks). The steel was then sent by rail to the adjacent American Bridge naval shipyard in Leetsdale, PA where the LSTs were built. The area was also home to several other steel mills like Armco, the pipe mill which manufactured oil piping, and A.M. Byers, a major iron and tool fabricator. Eventually competition by foreign steel producers began to cause the share of the steel market for U.S. manufacturers to dwindle. With the shift of steel production overseas, the American Bridge Company ended operations in Ambridge in 1983. The legacy of American Bridge can be seen today in bridges around the world.\n\nThe decline of both the steel industry and the town in chronicled in \"Rust Belt Boy\" by Ambridge native Paul Hertneky.\n\nEven though the steel mills no longer dominate the landscape, Ambridge remains the home of Old Economy Village, a National Historic Landmark administered by the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission. The site interprets the Harmony Society, one of America's most successful 19th century Christian communal societies. Old Economy Village also provides public education and preservation of the Society's unique material culture. Founded by George Rapp, it was the third and final location of the Harmonites. Established in 1824, Old Economy - known to the Harmonites as \"Ökonomie\" - was founded upon German Pietism, which called for a higher level of purity within Christianity. Soon the Harmonites were not only known for their piety, but also for their production of wool, cotton, and silk. As a pioneer in the American silk industry, Economy became known as the American silk center in the 1830s and 1840s. Today, the site maintains seventeen carefully restored structures and gardens that were built between 1824 and 1830. The buildings reflect the unusual life style of the organization, which, by the 1840s, was well renowned for its economic success in textile production. The site also portrays the community's involvement with agricultural production, railroads, and oil. The recreated gardens encompass more than , providing colorful 19th century flowers. The gardens' formal pathways, stone pavilion, and seasonal flowering hedges are among the striking features. Old Economy's buildings, grounds, library, archives and 16,000 original artifacts are fused to create an interpretive facility for the Commonwealth.\n\nAlthough the different ethnic groups of Ambridge have blended over time, the community continues to recognize the origins from which it came. Since 1966, Ambridge has held an annual heritage festival celebrating the borough's ethnic pride. Diversity in food, music, and entertainment continues to unite the community in remembering its origins. Organized by the Ambridge Chamber of Commerce, the three-day Nationality Days festival takes place in May and is located in the heart of the downtown Commercial District. Vendors line the center of Merchant Street as thousands of attendees – locals and tourists – enjoy Italian, Ukrainian, Greek, Polish, German, Croatian, and Slovenian cuisine. Booths are sponsored by numerous churches in Ambridge, bringing with them the recipes for their cultural dishes such as pirohy, haluski, stuffed cabbage, and borscht. Live entertainment, arts and crafts, and children's activities are also available. Thousands visit this festival daily (located on Merchant Street from 4th Street to 8th Street).\nWith Ambridge now over 100 years old, revitalization is beginning to occur along Merchant Street in the Downtown Commercial District. Entrepreneurs and investors have begun to renovate the Victorian facades of the commercial storefronts. Antique shops are opening in the Historic District, which is also a National Historic Landmark, and a once industrial warehouse area is being converted to condominiums, shops, and parks. In 2007 Ambridge was designated as a Preserve America Community by the White House. Convenient to Pittsburgh along the Ohio River Boulevard and just across the Ohio River from the Pittsburgh Airport, Ambridge leaders hope it will benefit by its location and low cost of living.\n\nAmbridge is located at (40.593167, -80.225200), along the Ohio River.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the borough has a total area of , of which is land and (12.87%) is water.\n\nAmbridge has two land borders, including Harmony Township to the north, east and northeast, and the Allegheny County borough of Leetsdale to the southwest. The city of Aliquippa runs adjacent to Ambridge across the Ohio River to the west and is connected to the borough via Ambridge-Aliquippa Bridge.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 7,769 people, 3,595 households, and 1,966 families residing in the borough. The population density was 5,179.3 people per square mile (2,044.5/km²). There were 4,099 housing units at an average density of 2,760.9 per square mile (1,069.3/km²). The racial makeup of the borough was 85.69% White, 11.38% African American, 0.08% Native American, 0.45% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 0.73% from other races, and 1.66% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.83% of the population.\n\nThere were 3,595 households, out of which 23.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 32.6% were married couples living together, 16.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 45.3% were non-families. 39.8% of all households were made up of individuals, and 18.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.14 and the average family size was 2.88.\n\nIn the borough the population was spread out, with 21.7% under the age of 18, 7.9% from 18 to 24, 27.2% from 25 to 44, 20.2% from 45 to 64, and 23.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 40 years. For every 100 females, there were 89.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 85.9 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the borough was $26,263, and the median income for a family was $35,529. Males had a median income of $30,996 versus $21,455 for females. The per capita income for the borough was $15,089. About 16.4% of families and 17.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 26.3% of those under age 18 and 14.1% of those age 65 or over.\n\nThe town is served by the Ambridge Area School District . The town's high school is Ambridge Area High School.\nStudents and citizens, are known by the locals as \"Bridgers\", which is also the name of the football team.\n\nAmbridge is also home to Trinity School for Ministry, an evangelical seminary in the Anglican tradition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6002747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6002747", "title": "Augustów roundup", "text": "Augustów roundup\n\nThe Augustów roundup (Polish \"Obława augustowska\") was a military operation against the Polish World War II anti-communist partisans and sympathizers following the Soviet takeover of Poland. The operation was undertaken by Soviet forces with the assistance of Polish communist units, and conducted from July 10 to July 25, 1945 in Suwałki and Augustów region (Podlasie) of northern People's Republic of Poland.\n\nOut of 2,000 arrested by the Soviet forces, about 600 have disappeared. They are presumed to have been executed and buried in an unknown location in present-day Russia or Belarus. Polish Institute of National Remembrance has declared the 1945 Augustów roundup \"the largest crime committed by the Soviets on Polish lands after World War II\". The crime has been called \"second Katyn\", \"small Katyn\", \"little Katyn\" or \"Podlaski Katyn\" in today's Poland, in reference to the Katyn massacre that occurred in 1940.\n\nIn the aftermath of the joint German-Soviet invasion of Poland, the Polish government evacuated to the West and created the Polish Underground State. While no war was declared between Poland and the Soviet Union, the relations were tense, and eventually broke down in 1943 in the aftermath of the revelations of the Katyn massacre. The Soviets eventually created their own Polish communist puppet government, the Polish Committee of National Liberation (\"Polski Komitet Wyzwolenia Narodowego\", \"PKWN\") and refused to deal with the Underground State just like they refused to deal with the government-in-exile; its leaders and soldiers on \"liberated\" Polish territories were persecuted. While the Underground State's military arm, \"Armia Krajowa\", officially disbanded on January 19, 1945 to avoid armed conflict with the Soviets and a civil war, some refused to lay down their arms; others found it simply difficult to return to civilian life, as those with ties to non-communist resistance were discriminated against by the authorities.\n\nThe operation was undertaken by Soviet forces of the Red Army, the NKVD and SMERSH with the assistance of Polish UB and LWP units, and conducted from July 12 to July 28, 1945 in the Suwałki and Augustów regions of northern People's Republic of Poland. This operation included not only Polish communist territories, but also former Polish territories annexed by the Soviet Union and given to the Lithuanian SSR (see Soviet occupation of Lithuania).\n\nMore than 2,000 Polish (some estimate as many as 7,000) alleged anticommunist fighters and sympathizers were arrested and interrogated in two waves of mass arrests. The majority were detained in Russian internment camps. The last ones were released and returned to Poland in 1956. 600 have disappeared, their fate uncertain to this day. More recent research puts the number of those disappeared at 592 or 593. They include 27 women (including pregnant ones) and 15 teenagers. The \"Augustów Missing\" are presumed to have been executed and buried in an unknown location in present-day Russia.\n\nDespite demands from many Polish citizens for this incident to be investigated, it was denied by both the Soviet and Polish communist governments. As late as the 1980s, the last decade of the People's Republic of Poland, government representative Jerzy Urban declared that the Polish government had \"no evidence to support the theory that a group of Polish citizens disappeared in the Augustów region in 1945.\" After the fall of communism, the new Polish government supported the investigation, carried out by the Institute of National Remembrance (IPN), which classified it as a communist crime. While it is commonly accepted that the Soviet Union, backed by communist Polish forces, arrested and likely executed approximately 600 Polish citizens connected to the anti-communist resistance, no conclusive information on their exact fate and resting place has yet been found. In 1995 the Russian government confirmed that 590 Polish citizens were arrested and 579 were put on trial, but that there is no information on their subsequent fate. In 2005 IPN noted that the research possibilities on Polish territory had been exhausted; even the archives of Polish secret services involved in the operations were analysed but contained only cursory information that they were aiding the Soviets without being given much information. However, Polish requests to the Russian government for support in the investigation were not productive, and many have been ignored. A symbolic monument has been built in the village of Giby, where a mass grave was found (these were later proven to belong to German soldiers from a nearby field hospital).\n\nIn May 2011, Russian historian Nikita Petrov declared that he found a KGB document proving that the Poles were executed by NKVD. This has evoked interest in Polish mainstream press and from the IPN, which declared that it would seek the documents located by Pietrov for further analysis. On 18 April 2012 the Polish Institute of National Remembrance announced that it has received the Soviet-era documents concerning the executions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17176415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17176415", "title": "Black Mamba (group)", "text": "Black Mamba (group)\n\nBlack Mamba is a government anti-terrorism organization in Uganda, under President Yoweri Museveni.\n\n"}
{"id": "3918680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3918680", "title": "Bookland (law)", "text": "Bookland (law)\n\nBookland () was a type of land tenure under Anglo-Saxon law and referred to land that was vested by a charter. Land held without a charter was known as \"folkland\" ().\n\nThe meanings of these terms have more depth when their Anglo-Saxon origins are considered. The concept of bookland arose in the seventh century and referred to land that could be 'alienated' (i.e., disposed of) at will. It evolved to resemble ownership in the modern sense. Folkland was land held under ancient, unwritten folk-law or custom and by that custom it could not be alienated (i.e., removed) from the kin of the holder, except under special circumstances. No such claim by the kin could be made on bookland. The definition of those ancient folk-laws and customs, and the definition of the word \"folkland\", has long been the subject of controversy. The model suggested by the historian Patrick Wormald, given in the definition above, allows for the graceful sidestepping of that controversy.\n\nA related concept was \"loanland\" (), which was land granted temporarily, without any loss of ownership. Such land might be granted for a term of years, or for the life of a person, or it might be granted to an official for the term of his office (e.g., as royal patronage). Both folkland and bookland might become loanland at one time or another.\n\nBy ancient law and custom, folkland was the only means of holding land in Anglo-Saxon England, and referred to land held by a single person as the representative of a kinship group. Land could be permanently transferred outside of the kinship group, or \"alienated\", but only with the agreement of the king and the witanagemot. Failing that, land could be transferred only within the kinship group, for example through inheritance.\n\nHowever, the exact nature of these unwritten ancient customs is not clearly understood, and might include several different types of land tenure, such as kinship holdings intended to remain within the kinship, or holdings of the king to be granted as rewards for service, or holdings of the people as a whole (the \"folk\") to be granted in their name by the king, or any combination of these.\n\nThe concept of bookland entered Anglo-Saxon law in the seventh century via the influence of the late Roman Empire's Vulgar Law, and referred to land that was granted in perpetuity by a charter, and thereafter could be conveyed from anyone to anyone else at will. This was its only practical distinction from \"folkland\".\n\nThe altering of the law to add this concept had its origins in the christianisation of the Anglo-Saxons in the seventh century. As neither the Church nor its clergy could be fitted into the existing laws of land tenure, Anglo-Saxon law added the granting of charters as a means of supporting them. It had been intended as a permanent grant of land for landowners building religious establishments, with the stipulation that the holder must perform road and bridge upkeep and supply men for the fyrd. Though there is evidence that this was not the first charter to be written in Anglo-Saxon England, the earliest surviving genuine charter, in favour of the abbot and monastery at Reculver, in Kent, was granted by King Hlothere of Kent in May 679.\n\nThe desirability of possessing unencumbered \"bookland\" in preference to \"folkland\" must have been immediately apparent to the laity, as Bede complained in a letter to Archbishop Ecgbert of York in 731, regarding the vast tracts of land acquired by \"pretended monks\" whose licentious interests were anything but Christian. To begin with, church land under bookright was exempt from taxation and immune from the \"trimodia necessitas\", that is, the upkeep of bridges and fortifications on the land, and the provision of military service, or fyrd. These immunities were removed from church land by the end of the 8th century, perhaps in response to the situation of which Bede complains.\n\nAs Anglo-Saxon law evolved, the religious requirement atrophied and was finally discarded, so that bookland resembled full ownership in the modern sense, in that the owner could grant it in his lifetime, in the same manner as he had received it, by \"boc\" or book, and also dispose of it by will.\nThe nature of Anglo-Saxon land tenure was substantially changed by the Norman conquest of England in 1066, as all land was then held by the King under Norman feudal control. The King's tenants in chief held their land in return for provision of men at arms to the King. However, the changes in the nature of tenure were not absolute. Military service had been a duty of landholders before 1066 and some Anglo-Saxon law and custom continued to apply after the conquest. Domesday does not mention folkland or bookland, but the form of tenure in January 1066 (TRE) is frequently given. Although a variety of wording is used. Ann Williams equates land held \"freely\" (libere) with bookland.\n\nThe laws regarding land tenure continued to evolve after the conquest, and there was no return to pre-Norman law and custom. Thus, the distinction between folkland and bookland is of historical interest, but without a substantive modern impact. However, the legacy of the pre-Norman Anglo-Saxon kingdoms is certainly of interest to those of Anglo-Saxon heritage, and to scholars attempting to construct histories and attempting to provide a full legal provenance for modern English law.\n\nAs few ancient records have survived, constructed histories are necessarily conjectural, with much room for disagreement. This accounts for the tautological definition: it represents an effort to be accurate while sidestepping any and all ongoing disputes regarding ancient Anglo-Saxon law and custom.\nThe exact meaning of the term folkland has been the subject of considerable controversy. However, the definition of bookland has suffered from less uncertainty, as its inception is within recorded history, with numerous examples available in the records.\n\nIgnoring any prior conjectures, the idea that folkland was land owned by the entire folk was introduced by John Allen in his 1830 \"Inquiry into the Rise and Growth of the Royal Prerogative in England\". He asserted that the land was the property of the people as a whole, to be let out at will, and returned to the people's control when the grant had expired. This became the accepted view of mainstream historians, who then developed arguments and theories based on the correctness of the proposition.\n\nIn a short article in \"The English Historical Review\" of 1893, Paul Vinogradoff asserted that folkland referred to land governed by folklaw or custom. It was this law that kept land within a family or kinship group, and folkland was not land collectively owned by the folk. He said that such land was held by a single representative of a kinship group, and that such land could not be alienated from (i.e., transferred from) the kinship group without special permission. Vinogradoff then proceeded to show that his assertion was everywhere consistent with the historical record and nowhere inconsistent, pointing out along the way that neither the \"accepted view\" nor its derivatives satisfied the criterion of historical consistency.\n\nWhile the idea of folkland as the common land of the folk was effectively put to rest for some, others persisted in their beliefs. Vinogradoff's own assertion did not go unchallenged, even by those who agreed with the thrust of his argument. Some, such as Frederic Maitland, gave partial or cautious support, while others rejected the assertion and offered their own definitions.\n\nA more recent text dealing explicitly with these controversies is Eric John's 1960 work, \"Land Tenure in Early England\". He emphatically denies the previously held view that bookland evolved to take the land out of the family line, and in fact developed specifically to keep it within the family, claiming that the king's power over folkland remained too powerful and that his favour depended too much on a subject's good behaviour towards him. An episode from Beowulf is employed to indicate that a subject who displeased the king was likely to have his folkland removed. Bookland, by contrast, provided the holder more definite powers of bequest removed from royal influence.\n\nAs there are only three explicit references to folkland in surviving documents, few plausible definitions can be ruled out, so long as they satisfy the criterion of historical consistency. The tautological definition sidesteps the controversy: it is agreed that all land that is not bookland is folkland. Ros Faith describes folkland as \"the counterpart or antithesis of bookland\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13778432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13778432", "title": "Brusseline", "text": "Brusseline\n\nBrusseline is a custom typeface developed in 2006 by Eric de Berranger for the signage of the Brussels public transport network (STIB-MIVB) managing metro, pre-metro and trams. The typeface started being used on the network in 2007 as part of company image campaign. The name is inspired by Parisine, the typeface of Paris’ public transport network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "101942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101942", "title": "Child labour", "text": "Child labour\n\nChild labour refers to the employment of children in any work that deprives children of their childhood, interferes with their ability to attend regular school, and that is mentally, physically, socially or morally dangerous and harmful. This practice is considered exploitative by many international organisations. Legislation across the world prohibit child labour. These laws do not consider all work by children as child labour; exceptions include work by child artists, family duties, supervised training, certain categories of work such as those by Amish children, some forms of child work common among indigenous American children, and others.\n\nChild labour has existed to varying extents, through most of history. During the 19th and early 20th centuries, many children aged 5–14 from poorer families still worked in Europe, the United States and various colonies of European powers. These children mainly worked in agriculture, home-based assembly operations, factories, mining and in services such as news boys. Some worked night shifts lasting 12 hours. With the rise of household income, availability of schools and passage of child labour laws, the incidence rates of child labour fell.\n\nIn the world’s poorest countries, around 1 in 4 children are engaged in child labour, the highest number of whom (29 percent) live in sub-saharan Africa. In 2017, four African nations (Mali, Benin, Chad and Guinea-Bissau) witnessed over 50 percent of children aged 5–14 working. Worldwide agriculture is the largest employer of child labour. The vast majority of child labour is found in rural settings and informal urban economy; children are predominantly employed by their parents, rather than factories. Poverty and lack of schools are considered as the primary cause of child labour.\n\nGlobally the incidence of child labour decreased from 25% to 10% between 1960 and 2003, according to the World Bank. Nevertheless, the total number of child labourers remains high, with UNICEF and ILO acknowledging an estimated 168 million children aged 5–17 worldwide, were involved in child labour in 2013.\n\nChild labour forms an intrinsic part of pre-industrial economies. In pre-industrial societies, there is rarely a concept of childhood in the modern sense. Children often begin to actively participate in activities such as child rearing, hunting and farming as soon as they are competent. In many societies, children as young as 13 are seen as adults and engage in the same activities as adults.\n\nThe work of children was important in pre-industrial societies, as children needed to provide their labour for their survival and that of their group. Pre-industrial societies were characterised by low productivity and short life expectancy, preventing children from participating in productive work would be more harmful to their welfare and that of their group in the long run. In pre-industrial societies, there was little need for children to attend school. This is especially the case in non literate societies. Most pre-industrial skill and knowledge were amenable to being passed down through direct mentoring or apprenticing by competent adults.\n\nWith the onset of the Industrial Revolution in Britain in the late 18th century, there was a rapid increase in the industrial exploitation of labour, including child labour. Industrial cities such as Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool rapidly grew from small villages into large cities and improving child mortality rates. These cities drew in the population that was rapidly growing due to increased agricultural output. This process was replicated in other industrialising counties.\n\nThe Victorian era in particular became notorious for the conditions under which children were employed. Children as young as four were employed in production factories and mines working long hours in dangerous, often fatal, working conditions. In coal mines, children would crawl through tunnels too narrow and low for adults. Children also worked as errand boys, crossing sweepers, shoe blacks, or selling matches, flowers and other cheap goods. Some children undertook work as apprentices to respectable trades, such as building or as domestic servants (there were over 120,000 domestic servants in London in the mid-18th century). Working hours were long: builders worked 64 hours a week in summer and 52 in winter, while domestic servants worked 80-hour weeks.\n\nChild labour played an important role in the Industrial Revolution from its outset, often brought about by economic hardship. The children of the poor were expected to contribute to their family income. In 19th-century Great Britain, one-third of poor families were without a breadwinner, as a result of death or abandonment, obliging many children to work from a young age. In England and Scotland in 1788, two-thirds of the workers in 143 water-powered cotton mills were described as children. A high number of children also worked as prostitutes. The author Charles Dickens worked at the age of 12 in a blacking factory, with his family in debtor's prison.\n\nChild wages were often low; as little as 10–20% of an adult male's wage. Karl Marx was an outspoken opponent of child labour, saying British industries, \"could but live by sucking blood, and children’s blood too,\" and that U.S. capital was financed by the \"capitalized blood of children\". Letitia Elizabeth Landon castigated child labour in her 1835 poem \"The Factory\", portions of which she pointedly included in her 18th Birthday Tribute to Princess Victoria in 1837.\n\nThroughout the second half of the 19th century, child labour began to decline in industrialised societies due to regulation and economic factors because of the Growth of Trade Unions . The regulation of child labour began from the earliest days of the Industrial revolution. The first act to regulate child labour in Britain was passed in 1803. As early as 1802 and 1819 Factory Acts were passed to regulate the working hours of workhouse children in factories and cotton mills to 12 hours per day. These acts were largely ineffective and after radical agitation, by for example the \"Short Time Committees\" in 1831, a Royal Commission recommended in 1833 that children aged 11–18 should work a maximum of 12 hours per day, children aged 9–11 a maximum of eight hours, and children under the age of nine were no longer permitted to work. This act however only applied to the textile industry, and further agitation led to another act in 1847 limiting both adults and children to 10-hour working days. Lord Shaftesbury was an outspoken advocate of regulating child labour.\n\nAs technology improved and proliferated, there was a greater need for educated employees. This saw an increase in schooling, with the eventual introduction of compulsory schooling. Improved technology and automation also made child labour redundant.\n\nIn the early 20th century, thousands of boys were employed in glass making industries. Glass making was a dangerous and tough job especially without the current technologies. The process of making glass includes intense heat to melt glass (3133 °F). When the boys are at work, they are exposed to this heat. This could cause eye trouble, lung ailments, heat exhaustion, cut, and burns. Since workers were paid by the piece, they had to work productively for hours without a break. Since furnaces had to be constantly burning, there were night shifts from 5:00 pm to 3:00 am. Many factory owners preferred boys under 16 years of age.\n\nAn estimated 1.7 million children under the age of fifteen were employed in American industry by 1900.\n\nIn 1910, over 2 million children in the same age group were employed in the United States. This included children who rolled cigarettes, engaged in factory work, worked as bobbin doffers in textile mills, worked in coal mines and were employed in canneries. Lewis Hine's photographs of child labourers in the 1910s powerfully evoked the plight of working children in the American south. Hine took these photographs between 1908 and 1917 as the staff photographer for the National Child Labor Committee.\n\nFactories and mines were not the only places where child labour was prevalent in the early 20th century. Home-based manufacturing across the United States and Europe employed children as well. Governments and reformers argued that labour in factories must be regulated and the state had an obligation to provide welfare for poor. Legislation that followed had the effect of moving work out of factories into urban homes. Families and women, in particular, preferred it because it allowed them to generate income while taking care of household duties.\n\nHome-based manufacturing operations were active year-round. Families willingly deployed their children in these income generating home enterprises. In many cases, men worked from home. In France, over 58 percent of garment workers operated out of their homes; in Germany, the number of full-time home operations nearly doubled between 1882 and 1907; and in the United States, millions of families operated out of home seven days a week, year round to produce garments, shoes, artificial flowers, feathers, match boxes, toys, umbrellas and other products. Children aged 5–14 worked alongside the parents. Home-based operations and child labour in Australia, Britain, Austria and other parts of the world was common. Rural areas similarly saw families deploying their children in agriculture. In 1946, Frieda S. Miller - then Director of the United States Department of Labor - told the International Labour Organization that these home-based operations offered, \"low wages, long hours, child labour, unhealthy and insanitary working conditions.\"\n\nChild labour is still common in many parts of the world. Estimates for child labour vary. It ranges between 250 and 304 million, if children aged 5–17 involved in any economic activity are counted. If light occasional work is excluded, ILO estimates there were 153 million child labourers aged 5–14 worldwide in 2008. This is about 20 million less than ILO estimate for child labourers in 2004. Some 60 percent of the child labour was involved in agricultural activities such as farming, dairy, fisheries and forestry. Another 25 percent of child labourers were in service activities such as retail, hawking goods, restaurants, load and transfer of goods, storage, picking and recycling trash, polishing shoes, domestic help, and other services. The remaining 15 percent laboured in assembly and manufacturing in informal economy, home-based enterprises, factories, mines, packaging salt, operating machinery, and such operations. Two out of three child workers work alongside their parents, in unpaid family work situations. Some children work as guides for tourists, sometimes combined with bringing in business for shops and restaurants. Child labour predominantly occurs in the rural areas (70%) and informal urban sector (26%).\n\nContrary to popular beliefs, most child labourers are employed by their parents rather than in manufacturing or formal economy. Children who work for pay or in-kind compensation are usually found in rural settings, then urban centres. Less than 3 percent of child labour aged 5–14 across the world work outside their household, or away from their parents.\n\nChild labour accounts for 22% of the workforce in Asia, 32% in Africa, 17% in Latin America, 1% in the US, Canada, Europe and other wealthy nations. The proportion of child labourers varies greatly among countries and even regions inside those countries. Africa has the highest percentage of children aged 5–17 employed as child labour, and a total of over 65 million. Asia, with its larger population, has the largest number of children employed as child labour at about 114 million. Latin America and Caribbean region have lower overall population density, but at 14 million child labourers has high incidence rates too.\nAccurate present day child labour information is difficult to obtain because of disagreements between data sources as to what constitutes child labour. In some countries, government policy contributes to this difficulty. For example, the overall extent of child labour in China is unclear due to the government categorizing child labour data as “highly secret”. China has enacted regulations to prevent child labour; still, the practice of child labour is reported to be a persistent problem within China, generally in agriculture and low-skill service sectors as well as small workshops and manufacturing enterprises.\nIn 2014, the U.S. Department of Labor issued a \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" where China was attributed 12 goods the majority of which were produced by both underage children and indentured labourers. The report listed electronics, garments, toys and coal among other goods.\n\nMaplecroft Child Labour Index 2012 survey reports 76 countries pose extreme child labour complicity risks for companies operating worldwide. The ten highest risk countries in 2012, ranked in decreasing order, were: Myanmar, North Korea, Somalia, Sudan, DR Congo, Zimbabwe, Afghanistan, Burundi, Pakistan and Ethiopia. Of the major growth economies, Maplecroft ranked Philippines 25th riskiest, India 27th, China 36th, Viet Nam 37th, Indonesia 46th, and Brazil 54th - all of them rated to involve extreme risks of child labour uncertainties, to corporations seeking to invest in developing world and import products from emerging markets.\n\nInternational Labour Organization (ILO) suggests poverty is the greatest single cause behind child labour. For impoverished households, income from a child's work is usually crucial for his or her own survival or for that of the household. Income from working children, even if small, may be between 25 and 40% of the household income. Other scholars such as Harsch on African child labour, and Edmonds and Pavcnik on global child labour have reached the same conclusion.\n\nLack of meaningful alternatives, such as affordable schools and quality education, according to ILO, is another major factor driving children to harmful labour. Children work because they have nothing better to do. Many communities, particularly rural areas where between 60–70% of child labour is prevalent, do not possess adequate school facilities. Even when schools are sometimes available, they are too far away, difficult to reach, unaffordable or the quality of education is so poor that parents wonder if going to school is really worth it.\n\nIn European history when child labour was common, as well as in contemporary child labour of modern world, certain cultural beliefs have rationalised child labour and thereby encouraged it. Some view that work is good for the character-building and skill development of children. In many cultures, particular where the informal economy and small household businesses thrive, the cultural tradition is that children follow in their parents' footsteps; child labour then is a means to learn and practice that trade from a very early age. Similarly, in many cultures the education of girls is less valued or girls are simply not expected to need formal schooling, and these girls pushed into child labour such as providing domestic services.\n\nBiggeri and Mehrotra have studied the macroeconomic factors that encourage child labour. They focus their study on five Asian nations including India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Thailand and Philippines. They suggest that child labour is a serious problem in all five, but it is not a new problem. Macroeconomic causes encouraged widespread child labour across the world, over most of human history. They suggest that the causes for child labour include both the demand and the supply side. While poverty and unavailability of good schools explain the child labour supply side, they suggest that the growth of low-paying informal economy rather than higher paying formal economy is amongst the causes of the demand side. Other scholars too suggest that inflexible labour market, sise of informal economy, inability of industries to scale up and lack of modern manufacturing technologies are major macroeconomic factors affecting demand and acceptability of child labour.\n\nSystematic use of child labour was common place in the colonies of European powers between 1650 and 1950. In Africa, colonial administrators encouraged traditional kin-ordered modes of production, that is hiring a household for work not just the adults. Millions of children worked in colonial agricultural plantations, mines and domestic service industries. Sophisticated schemes were promulgated where children in these colonies between the ages of 5–14 were hired as an apprentice without pay in exchange for learning a craft. A system of Pauper Apprenticeship came into practice in the 19th century where the colonial master neither needed the native parents' nor child's approval to assign a child to labour, away from parents, at a distant farm owned by a different colonial master. Other schemes included 'earn-and-learn' programs where children would work and thereby learn. Britain for example passed a law, the so-called Masters and Servants Act of 1899, followed by Tax and Pass Law, to encourage child labour in colonies particularly in Africa. These laws offered the native people the legal ownership to some of the native land in exchange for making labour of wife and children available to colonial government's needs such as in farms and as \"picannins\".\n\nBeyond laws, new taxes were imposed on colonies. One of these taxes was the Head Tax in the British and French colonial empires. The tax was imposed on everyone older than 8 years, in some colonies. To pay these taxes and cover living expenses, children in colonial households had to work.\n\nIn southeast Asian colonies, such as Hong Kong, child labour such as the \"Mui Tsai\" (妹仔), was rationalised as a cultural tradition and ignored by British authorities. The Dutch East India Company officials rationalised their child labour abuses with, \"it is a way to save these children from a worse fate.\" Christian mission schools in regions stretching from Zambia to Nigeria too required work from children, and in exchange provided religious education, not secular education. Elsewhere, the Canadian Dominion Statutes in form of so-called Breaches of Contract Act, stipulated jail terms for uncooperative child workers.\n\nProposals to regulate child labour began as early as 1786.\n\nChildren working at a young age has been a consistent theme throughout Africa. Many children began first working in the home to help their parents run the family farm. Children in Africa today are often forced into exploitative labour due to family debt and other financial factors, leading to ongoing poverty. Other types of domestic child labour include working in commercial plantations, begging, and other sales such as boot shining. In total, there is an estimated five million children who are currently working in the field of agriculture which steadily increases during the time of harvest. Along with 30 percent of children who are picking coffee, there are an estimated 25,000 school age children who work year round.\n\nWhat industries children work in depends on if they grew up in a rural area or an urban area. Children who were born in urban areas often found themselves working for street vendors, washing cars, helping in construction sites, weaving clothing, and sometimes even working as exotic dancers. While children who grew up in rural areas would work on farms doing physical labour, working with animals, and selling crops. Of all the child workers, the most serious cases involved street children and trafficked children due to the physical and emotional abuse they endured by their employers. To address the issue of child labour, the United Nations Conventions on the Rights of the Child Act was implemented in 1959. Yet due to poverty, lack of education and ignorance, the legal actions were not/are not wholly enforced or accepted in Africa.\n\nOther legal factors that have been implemented to end and reduce child labour includes the global response that came into force in 1979 by the declaration of the International Year of the Child. Along with the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations, these two declarations worked on many levels to eliminate child labour. Although many actions have been taken to end this epidemic, child labour in Africa is still an issue today due to the unclear definition of adolescence and how much time is needed for children to engage in activities that are crucial for their development. Another issue that often comes into play is the link between what constitutes as child labour within the household due to the cultural acceptance of children helping run the family business. In the end, there is a consistent challenge for the national government to strengthen its grip politically on child labour, and to increase education and awareness on the issue of children working below the legal age limit. With children playing an important role in the African economy, child labour still plays an important role for many in the 20th century.\n\nFrom European settlement in 1788, child convicts were occasionally sent to Australia where they were made to work. Child labour was not as excessive in Australia as in Britain. With a low population, agricultural productivity was higher and families did not face starvation as in established industrialised countries. Australia also did not have significant industry until the later part of the 20th century when child labour laws, and compulsory schooling had developed under the influence of Britain. From the 1870s Child labour was restricted by compulsory schooling.\n\nChild labour laws in Australia differ from state to state. Generally, children are allowed to work at any age, but restrictions exist for children under 15 years of age. These restrictions apply to work hours and the type of work that children can perform. In all states, children are obliged to attend school until a minimum leaving age, 15 years of age in all states except Tasmania and Queensland where the leaving age is 17.\n\nChild labour has been a consistent struggle for children in Brazil ever since the country was colonised on April 22, 1500 by Pedro Álvares Cabral. Work that many children took part in was not always visible, legal, or paid. Free or slave labour was a common occurrence for many youths and was a part of their everyday lives as they grew into adulthood. Yet due to there being no clear definition of how to classify what a child or youth is, there has been little historical documentation of child labour during the colonial period. Due to this lack of documentation, it is hard to determine just how many children were used for what kinds of work before the nineteenth century. The first documentation of child labour in Brazil occurred during the time of indigenous societies and slave labour where it was found that children were forcibly working on tasks that exceeded their emotional and physical limits. Armando Dias, for example, died in November 1913 whilst still very young, a victim of an electric shock when entering the textile industry where he worked. Boys and girls were victims of industrial accidents on a daily basis.\n\nIn Brazil, the minimum working age has been identified as fourteen due to continuous constitutional amendments that occurred in 1934, 1937, and 1946. Yet due to a change in the dictatorship by the military in the 80’s, the minimum age restriction was reduced to the age of twelve but was reviewed due to reports of dangerous and hazardous working conditions in 1988. This led to the minimum age being raised once again to 14. Another set of restrictions was passed in 1998 that restricted the kinds of work youth could partake in, such as work that was considered hazardous like running construction equipment, or certain kinds of factory work. Although many steps were taken to reduce the risk and occurrence of child labour, there is still a high number of children and adolescents working under the age of fourteen in Brazil. It was not until recently in the 80’s that it was discovered that almost nine million children in Brazil were working illegally and not partaking in traditional childhood activities that help to develop important life experiences.\n\nBrazilian census data (PNAD, 1999) indicate that 2.55 million 10-14 year-olds were illegally holding jobs. They were joined by 3.7 million 15-17 year-olds and about 375,000 5-9 year-olds. Due to the raised age restriction of 14, at least half of the recorded young workers had been employed illegally which lead to many not being protect by important labour laws. Although substantial time has passed since the time of regulated child labour, there is still a large number of children working illegally in Brazil. Many children are used by drug cartels to sell and carry drugs, guns, and other illegal substances because of their perception of innocence. This type of work that youth are taking part in is very dangerous due to the physical and psychological implications that come with these jobs. Yet despite the hazards that come with working with drug dealers, there has been an increase in this area of employment throughout the country.\n\nMany factors played a role in Britain’s long-term economic growth, such as the industrial revolution in the late 1700s and the prominent presence of child labour during the industrial age. Children who worked at an early age were often not forced; but did so because they needed to help their family survive financially. Due to poor employment opportunities for many parents, sending their children to work on farms and in factories was a way to help feed and support the family. Child Labour first started to occur in England when household businesses were turned into local labour markets that mass-produced the once homemade goods. Because children often helped produce the goods out of their homes, working in a factory to make those same goods was a simple change for many of these youths. Although there are many counts of children under the age of ten working for factories, the majority of children workers were between the ages of ten and fourteen. This age range was an important time for many youths as they were first helping to provide for their families; while also transitioning to save for their own future families.\n\nBesides the obligation, many children had to help support their families financially; another factor that influenced child labour was the demographic changes that occurred in the eighteenth century. By the end of the eighteenth century, 20 percent of the population was made up of children between the ages of 5 and 14. Due to this substantial shift in available workers, and the development of the industrial revolution, children began to work earlier in life in companies outside of the home. Yet, even though there was an increase of child labour in factories such as cotton textiles, there consistently was large numbers of children working in the field of agriculture and domestic production.\n\nWith such a high percentage of children working, the rising of illiteracy, and the lack of a formal education became a widespread issue for many children who worked to provide for their families. Due to this problematic trend, many parents developed a change of opinion when deciding whether or not to send their children to work. Other factors that lead to the decline of child labour included financial changes in the economy, changes in the development of technology, raised wages, and continuous regulations on factory legislation.\n\nThe first legal steps taken to end the occurrence of child labour was enacted more than fifty years ago. In 1966, the nation adopted the UN General Assembly of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. This act legally limited the minimum age for when children could start work at the age of 14. But 23 years later in 1989 the Convention on the Rights of Children was adopted and helped to reduce the exploitation of children and demanded safe working environments. They all worked towards the goal of ending the most problematic forms of child labour.\n\nSignificant levels of child labour appear to be found in Cambodia. In 1998, ILO estimated that 24.1% of children in Cambodia aged between 10 and 14 were economically active. Many of these children work long hours and Cambodia Human Development Report 2000 reported that approximately 65,000 children between the ages of 5 to 13 worked 25 hours a week and did not attend school. There are also many initiative and policies put in place to decrease the prevelence of child labour such as the United States generalized system of preferences, the U.S.-Cambodia textile agreement, ILO Garment Sector Working Conditions Improvement Project, and ChildWise Tourism.\n\nAn Ecuadorean study published in 2006 found child labour to be one of the main environmental problems affecting children's health. It reported that over 800,000 children are working in Ecuador, where they are exposed to heavy metals and toxic chemicals and are subject to mental and physical stress and the insecurity caused by being at risk of work-related accidents. Minors performing agricultural work along with their parents help apply pesticides without wearing protective equipment.\n\nIn 2015, the country of India is home to the largest number of children who are working illegally in various industrial industries. Agriculture in India is the largest sector where many children work at early ages to help support their family. Many of these children are forced to work at young ages due to many family factors such as unemployment, a large number of family members, poverty, and lack of parental education. This is often the major cause of the high rate of child labour in India.\n\nOn 23 June 1757, the English East India Company defeated Siraj-ud-Daula, the Nawab of Bengal, in the Battle of Plassey. The British thus became masters of east India (Bengal, Bihar, Orissa) – a prosperous region with a flourishing agriculture, industry and trade. This led to a large number of children being forced into labour due to the increasing need of cheap labour to produce large numbers of goods. Many multinationals often employed children because that they can be recruited for less pay, and have more endurance to utilise in factory environments. Another reason many Indian children were hired was because they lack knowledge of their basic rights, they did not cause trouble or complain, and they were often more trustworthy. The innocence that comes with childhood was utilised to make a profit by many and was encouraged by the need for family income.\nA variety of Indian social scientists as well as the non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have done extensive research on the numeric figures of child labour found in India and determined that India contributes to one-third of Asia’s child labour and one-fourth of the world's child labour. Due to a large number of children being illegally employed, the Indian government began to take extensive actions to reduce the number of children working, and to focus on the importance of facilitating the proper growth and development of children. International influences help to encourage legal actions to be taken in India, such as the Geneva Declaration of the Right of Children Act was passed in 1924. This act was followed by The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 to which incorporated the basic human rights and needs of children for proper progression and growth in their younger years. These international acts encouraged major changes to the workforce in India which occurred in 1986 when the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act was put into place. This act prohibited hiring children younger than the age of 14, and from working in hazardous conditions.\n\nDue to the increase of regulations and legal restrictions on child labour, there has been a 64 percent decline in child labour from 1993-2005. Although this is a great decrease in the country of India, there is still high numbers of children working in the rural areas of India. With 85 percent of the child labour occurring in rural areas, and 15 percent occurring in urban areas, there are still substantial areas of concern in the country of India.\n\nIndia has legislation since 1986 which allows work by children in non-hazardous industry. In 2013, the Punjab and Haryana High Court gave a landmark order that directed that there shall be a total ban on the employment of children up to the age of 14 years, be it hazardous or non-hazardous industries. However, the Court ruled that a child can work with his or her family in family based trades/occupations, for the purpose of learning a new trade/craftsmanship or vocation.\n\nIn post-colonial Ireland, the rate of child exploitation was extremely high as children were used as farm labourers once they were able to walk, these children were never paid for the labour that they carried out on the family farm. Children were wanted and desired in Ireland for the use of their labour on the family farm. Irish parents felt that it was the children's duty to carry out chores on the family farm \n\nThough banned in modern Japan, \"shonenko\" (child labourers) were a feature of the Imperial era until its end in 1945. During World War 2 labour recruiting efforts targeted youths from Taiwan (Formosa), then a Japanese territory, with promises of educational opportunity. Though the target of 25,000 recruits was never reached, over 8,400 Taiwanese youths aged 12 to 14 relocated to Japan to help manufacture the Mitsubishi J2M Raiden aircraft.\n\nChild labour existed in the Netherlands up to and through the Industrial Revolution. Laws governing child labour in factories were first passed in 1874, but child labour on farms continued to be the norm up until the 20th century.\n\nAlthough formally banned since 1922, child labour was widespread in the Soviet Union, mostly in the form of mandatory, unpaid work by schoolchildren on Saturdays and holidays. The students were used as a cheap, unqualified workforce on \"kolhoz\" (collective farms) as well as in industry and forestry. The practice was formally called \"work education\".\n\nFrom the 1950s on, the students were also used for unpaid work at schools, where they cleaned and performed repairs. This practice has continued in the Russian Federation, where up to 21 days of the summer holidays is sometimes set aside for school works. By law, this is only allowed as part of specialised occupational training and with the students' and parents' permission, but those provisions are widely ignored. In 2012 there was an accident near city of Nalchik where a car killed several pupils cleaning up a highway shoulder during their \"holiday work\" as well as their teacher who was supervising them.\n\nOut of former Soviet Union republics Uzbekistan continued and expanded the program of child labour on industrial scale to increase profits on the main source of Islam Karimov's income, cotton harvesting. In September, when school normally starts, the classes are suspended and children are sent to cotton fields for work, where they are assigned daily quotas of 20 to 60 kg of raw cotton they have to collect. This process is repeated in spring, when collected cotton needs to be hoed and weeded. In 2006 it is estimated that 2.7 million children were forced to work this way.\n\nAs in many other countries, child labour in Switzerland affected among the so-called \"Kaminfegerkinder\" (\"chimney sweep children\") and children working p.e. in spinning mills, factories and in agriculture in 19th-century Switzerland, but also to the 1960s so-called \"Verdingkinder\" (literally: \"contract children\" or \"indentured child laborers\") were children who were taken from their parents, often due to poverty or \"moral reasons\" – usually mothers being unmarried, very poor citizens, of Gypsy–Yeniche origin, so-called \"Kinder der Landstrasse\", etc. – and sent to live with new families, often poor farmers who needed cheap labour.\n\nThere were even \"Verdingkinder\" auctions where children were handed over to the farmer asking the least amount of money from the authorities, thus securing cheap labour for his farm and relieving the authority from the financial burden of looking after the children. In the 1930s 20% of all agricultural labourers in the Canton of Bern were children below the age of 15. Swiss municipality guardianship authorities acted so, commonly tolerated by federal authorities, to the 1960s, not all of them of course, but usually communities affected of low taxes in some Swiss cantons Swiss historian Marco Leuenberger investigated, that in 1930 there were some 35,000 indentured children, and between 1920 and 1970 more than 100,000 are believed to have been placed with families or homes. 10,000 \"Verdingkinder\" are still alive. Therefore, the so-called \"Wiedergutmachungsinitiative\" was started in April 2014. In April 2014 the collection of targeted at least authenticated 100,000 signatures of Swiss citizens has started, and still have to be collected to October 2015.\n\nAlmost every country in the world has laws relating to and aimed at preventing child labour. International Labour Organization has helped set international law, which most countries have signed on and ratified. According to ILO minimum age convention (C138) of 1973, child labour refers to any work performed by children under the age of 12, non-light work done by children aged 12–14, and hazardous work done by children aged 15–17. Light work was defined, under this Convention, as any work that does not harm a child's health and development, and that does not interfere with his or her attendance at school. This convention has been ratified by 135 countries.\n\nThe United Nations adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1990, which was subsequently ratified by 193 countries. Article 32 of the convention addressed child labour, as follows:\"...Parties recognise the right of the child to be protected from economic exploitation and from performing any work that is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the child's education, or to be harmful to the child's health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development.\"\n\nUnder Article 1 of the 1990 Convention, a child is defined as \"... every human being below the age of eighteen years unless, under the law applicable to the child, a majority is attained earlier.\" Article 28 of this Convention requires States to, \"make primary education compulsory and available free to all.\"\n\n195 countries are party to the Convention; only two nations have not ratified the treaty, Somalia and the United States.\n\nIn 1999, ILO helped lead the Worst Forms Convention 182 (C182), which has so far been signed upon and domestically ratified by 151 countries including the United States. This international law prohibits worst forms of child labour, defined as all forms of slavery and slavery-like practices, such as child trafficking, debt bondage, and forced labour, including forced recruitment of children into armed conflict. The law also prohibits the use of a child for prostitution or the production of pornography, child labour in illicit activities such as drug production and trafficking; and in hazardous work. Both the Worst Forms Convention (C182) and the Minimum Age Convention (C138) are examples of international labour standards implemented through the ILO that deal with child labour.\n\nIn addition to setting the international law, the United Nations initiated International Program on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC) in 1992. This initiative aims to progressively eliminate child labour through strengthening national capacities to address some of the causes of child labour. Amongst the key initiative is the so-called time-bounded programme countries, where child labour is most prevalent and schooling opportunities lacking. The initiative seeks to achieve amongst other things, universal primary school availability. The IPEC has expanded to at least the following target countries: Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Democratic Republic of Congo, El Salvador, Nepal, Tanzania, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Philippines, Senegal, South Africa and Turkey.\n\nTargeted child labour campaigns were initiated by the International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC) in order to advocate for prevention and elimination of all forms of child labour. The global Music against Child Labour Initiative was launched in 2013 in order to involve socially excluded children in structured musical activity and education in efforts to help protect them from child labour.\n\nIn 2004, the United States passed an amendment to the Fair Labour Standards Act of 1938. The amendment allows certain children aged 14–18 to work in or outside a business where machinery is used to process wood. The law aims to respect the religious and cultural needs of the Amish community of the United States. The Amish believe that one effective way to educate children is on the job. The new law allows Amish children the ability to work with their families, once they are passed eighth grade in school.\n\nSimilarly, in 1996, member countries of the European Union, per Directive 94/33/EC, agreed to a number of exceptions for young people in its child labour laws. Under these rules, children of various ages may work in cultural, artistic, sporting or advertising activities if authorised by the competent authority. Children above the age of 13 may perform light work for a limited number of hours per week in other economic activities as defined at the discretion of each country. Additionally, the European law exception allows children aged 14 years or over to work as part of a work/training scheme. The EU Directive clarified that these exceptions do not allow child labour where the children may experience harmful exposure to dangerous substances. Nonetheless, many children under the age of 13 do work, even in the most developed countries of the EU. For instance, a recent study showed over a third of Dutch twelve-year-old kids had a job, the most common being babysitting.\n\nScholars disagree on the best legal course forward to address child labour. Some suggest the need for laws that place a blanket ban on any work by children less than 18 years old. Others suggest the current international laws are enough, and the need for more engaging approach to achieve the ultimate goals.\n\nSome scholars suggest any labour by children aged 18 years or less is wrong since this encourages illiteracy, inhumane work and lower investment in human capital. Child labour, claim these activists, also leads to poor labour standards for adults, depresses the wages of adults in developing countries as well as the developed countries, and dooms the third world economies to low-skill jobs only capable of producing poor quality cheap exports. More children that work in poor countries, the fewer and worse-paid are the jobs for adults in these countries. In other words, there are moral and economic reasons that justify a blanket ban on labour from children aged 18 years or less, everywhere in the world.\n\nOther scholars suggest that these arguments are flawed, ignores history and more laws will do more harm than good. According to them, child labour is merely the symptom of a greater disease named poverty. If laws ban all lawful work that enables the poor to survive, informal economy, illicit operations and underground businesses will thrive. These will increase abuse of the children. In poor countries with very high incidence rates of child labour - such as Ethiopia, Chad, Niger and Nepal - schools are not available, and the few schools that exist offer poor quality education or are unaffordable. The alternatives for children who currently work, claim these studies, are worse: grinding subsistence farming, militia or prostitution. Child labour is not a choice, it is a necessity, the only option for survival. It is currently the least undesirable of a set of very bad choices.\n\nThese scholars suggest, from their studies of economic and social data, that early 20th-century child labour in Europe and the United States ended in large part as a result of the economic development of the formal regulated economy, technology development and general prosperity. Child labour laws and ILO conventions came later. Edmonds suggests, even in contemporary times, the incidence of child labour in Vietnam has rapidly reduced following economic reforms and GDP growth. These scholars suggest economic engagement, emphasis on opening quality schools rather than more laws and expanding economically relevant skill development opportunities in the third world. International legal actions, such as trade sanctions increase child labour.\n\n\"The Incredible Bread Machine\", a book published by \"World Research, Inc.\" in 1974, stated:\n\nIn 1998, UNICEF reported that Ivory Coast farmers used enslaved children – many from surrounding countries. In late 2000 a BBC documentary reported the use of enslaved children in the production of cocoa—the main ingredient in chocolate— in West Africa. Other media followed by reporting widespread child slavery and child trafficking in the production of cocoa. In 2001, the US State Department estimated there were 15,000 child slaves cocoa, cotton and coffee farms in the Ivory Coast, and the Chocolate Manufacturers Association acknowledged that child slavery is used in the cocoa harvest.\n\nMalian migrants have long worked on cocoa farms in the Ivory Coast, but in 2000 cocoa prices had dropped to a 10-year low and some farmers stopped paying their employees. The Malian counsel had to rescue some boys who had not been paid for five years and who were beaten if they tried to run away. Malian officials believed that 15,000 children, some as young as 11 years old, were working in the Ivory Coast in 2001. These children were often from poor families or the slums and were sold to work in other countries. Parents were told the children would find work and send money home, but once the children left home, they often worked in conditions resembling slavery. In other cases, children begging for food were lured from bus stations and sold as slaves. In 2002, the Ivory Coast had 12,000 children with no relatives nearby, which suggested they were trafficked, likely from neighboring Mali, Burkina Faso and Togo.\n\nThe cocoa industry was accused of profiting from child slavery and trafficking. The European Cocoa Association dismissed these accusations as \"false and excessive\" and the industry said the reports were not representative of all areas. Later the industry acknowledged the working conditions for children were unsatisfactory and children's rights were sometimes violated and acknowledged the claims could not be ignored. In a BBC interview, the ambassador for Ivory Coast to the United Kingdom called these reports of widespread use of slave child labour by 700,000 cocoa farmers as absurd and inaccurate.\n\nIn 2001, a voluntary agreement called the Harkin-Engel Protocol, was accepted by the international cocoa and chocolate industry to eliminate the worst forms of child labour, as defined by ILO's Convention 182, in West Africa. This agreement created a foundation named International Cocoa Initiative in 2002. The foundation claims it has, as of 2011, active programs in 290 cocoa growing communities in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana, reaching a total population of 689,000 people to help eliminate the worst forms of child labour in cocoa industry. Other organisations claim progress has been made, but the protocol's 2005 deadlines have not yet been met.\n\nIn 2008, Bloomberg claimed child labour in copper and cobalt mines that supplied Chinese companies in Congo. The children are \"creuseurs\", that is they dig the ore by hand, carry sacks of ores on their backs, and these are then purchased by these companies. Over 60 of Katanga's 75 processing plants are owned by Chinese companies and 90 percent of the region's minerals go to China. An African NGO report claimed 80,000 child labourers under the age of 15, or about 40% of all miners, were supplying ore to Chinese companies in this African region.\nAmnesty International alleged in 2016 that some cobalt sold by Congo Dongfang Mining was produced by child labour, and that it was being used in lithium-ion batteries powering electric cars and mobile devices worldwide.\n\nBBC, in 2012, accused Glencore of using child labour in its mining and smelting operations of Africa. Glencore denied it used child labour, and said it has strict policy of not using child labour. The company claimed it has a strict policy whereby all copper was mined correctly, placed in bags with numbered seals and then sent to the smelter. Glencore mentioned being aware of child miners who were part of a group of artisanal miners who had without authorisation raided the concession awarded to the company since 2010; Glencore has been pleading with the government to remove the artisanal miners from the concession.\n\nSmall-scale artisanal mining of gold is another source of dangerous child labour in poor rural areas in certain parts of the world. This form of mining uses labour-intensive and low-tech methods. It is informal sector of the economy. Human Rights Watch group estimates that about 12 percent of global gold production comes from artisanal mines. In west Africa, in countries such as Mali - the third largest exporter of gold in Africa - between 20,000 and 40,000 children work in artisanal mining. Locally known as \"orpaillage\", children as young as 6 years old work with their families. These children and families suffer chronic exposure to toxic chemicals including mercury, and do hazardous work such as digging shafts and working underground, pulling up, carrying and crushing the ore. The poor work practices harm the long term health of children, as well as release hundreds of tons of mercury every year into local rivers, ground water and lakes. Gold is important to the economy of Mali and Ghana. For Mali, it is the second largest earner of its export revenue. For many poor families with children, it is the primary and sometimes the only source of income.\n\nIn early August 2008, Iowa Labour Commissioner David Neil announced that his department had found that Agriprocessors, a kosher meatpacking company in Postville which had recently been raided by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, had employed 57 minors, some as young as 14, in violation of state law prohibiting anyone under 18 from working in a meatpacking plant. Neil announced that he was turning the case over to the state Attorney General for prosecution, claiming that his department's inquiry had discovered \"egregious violations of virtually every aspect of Iowa's child labour laws.\" Agriprocessors claimed that it was at a loss to understand the allegations. Agriprocessors' CEO went to trial on these charges in state court on 4 May 2010. After a five-week trial he was found not guilty of all 57 charges of child labour violations by the Black Hawk County District Court jury in Waterloo, Iowa, on 7 June 2010.\n\nA 2007 report claimed some GAP products had been produced by child labourers. GAP acknowledged the problem and announced it is pulling the products from its shelf. The report found Gap had rigorous social audit systems since 2004 to eliminate child labour in its supply chain. However, the report concluded that the system was being abused by unscrupulous subcontractors.\n\nGAP's policy, the report claimed, is that if it discovers child labour was used by its supplier in its branded clothes, the contractor must remove the child from the workplace, provide it with access to schooling and a wage, and guarantee the opportunity of work on reaching a legal working age.\n\nIn 2007, The New York Times reported that GAP, after the child labour discovery, created a $200,000 grant to improve working conditions in the supplier community.\n\nIn December 2009, campaigners in the UK called on two leading high street retailers to stop selling clothes made with cotton which may have been picked by children. Anti-Slavery International and the Environmental Justice Foundation (EJF) accused H&M and Zara of using cotton suppliers in Bangladesh. It is also suspected that many of their raw materials originates from Uzbekistan, where children aged 10 are forced to work in the fields. The activists were calling to ban the use of Uzbek cotton and implement a \"track and trace\" systems to guarantee an ethical responsible source of the material.\n\nH&M said it \"does not accept\" child labour and \"seeks to avoid\" using Uzbek cotton, but admitted it did \"not have any reliable methods\" to ensure Uzbek cotton did not end up in any of its products. Inditex, the owner of Zara, said its code of conduct banned child labour.\n\nA 2003 Human Rights Watch report claimed children as young as five years old were employed and worked for up to 12 hours a day and six to seven days a week in silk industry. These children, HRW claimed, were bonded child labour in India, easy to find in Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.\n\nIn 2010, a German news investigative report claimed that in silk weaving industry, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) had found up to 10,000 children working in the 1,000 silk factories in 1998. In other places, thousands of bonded child labour were present in 1994. After UNICEF and NGOs got involved, after 2005, child labour figure is drastically lower, with the total estimated to be fewer than a thousand child labourers. The released children were back in school, claims the report.\n\nIn 2008, the BBC reported that the company Primark was using child labour in the manufacture of clothing. In particular, a £4 hand-embroidered shirt was the starting point of a documentary produced by BBC's \"Panorama\" programme. The programme asks consumers to ask themselves, \"Why am I only paying £4 for a hand embroidered top? This item looks handmade. Who made it for such little cost?\", in addition to exposing the violent side of the child labour industry in countries where child exploitation is prevalent.\n\nAs a result of the BBC report, Royal Television Society awarded it a prize, and Primark took immediate action and fired three Indian suppliers in 2008.\n\nPrimark continued to investigate the allegations for three years, concluding that BBC report was a fake. In 2011, following an investigation by the BBC Trust’s Editorial Standards Committee, the BBC announced, \"Having carefully scrutinised all of the relevant evidence, the committee concluded that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that the Bangalore footage was not authentic.\" BBC subsequently apologised for faking footage, and returned the television award for investigative reporting.\n\nConcerns have often been raised over the buying public's moral complicity in purchasing products assembled or otherwise manufactured in developing countries with child labour. However, others have raised concerns that boycotting products manufactured through child labour may force these children to turn to more dangerous or strenuous professions, such as prostitution or agriculture. For example, a UNICEF study found that after the Child Labour Deterrence Act was introduced in the US, an estimated 50,000 children were dismissed from their garment industry jobs in Bangladesh, leaving many to resort to jobs such as \"stone-crushing, street hustling, and prostitution\", jobs that are \"more hazardous and exploitative than garment production\". The study suggests that boycotts are \"blunt instruments with long-term consequences, that can actually harm rather than help the children involved.\"\n\nAccording to Milton Friedman, before the Industrial Revolution virtually all children worked in agriculture. During the Industrial Revolution many of these children moved from farm work to factory work. Over time, as real wages rose, parents became able to afford to send their children to school instead of work and as a result child labour declined, both before and after legislation. Austrian School economist Murray Rothbard said that British and American children of the pre- and post-Industrial Revolution lived and suffered in infinitely worse conditions where jobs were not available for them and went \"voluntarily and gladly\" to work in factories.\n\nBritish historian and socialist E. P. Thompson in \"The Making of the English Working Class\" draws a qualitative distinction between child domestic work and participation in the wider (waged) labour market. Further, the usefulness of the experience of the industrial revolution in making predictions about current trends has been disputed. Social historian Hugh Cunningham, author of \"Children and Childhood in Western Society Since 1500\", notes that:\nAccording to Thomas DeGregori, an economics professor at the University of Houston, in an article published by the Cato Institute, a libertarian think-tank operating in Washington D.C., \"it is clear that technological and economic change are vital ingredients in getting children out of the workplace and into schools. Then they can grow to become productive adults and live longer, healthier lives. However, in poor countries like Bangladesh, working children are essential for survival in many families, as they were in our own heritage until the late 19th century. So, while the struggle to end child labour is necessary, getting there often requires taking different routes—and, sadly, there are many political obstacles.\n\nThe International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC), founded in 1992, aims to eliminate child labour. It operates in 88 countries and is the largest program of its kind in the world. IPEC works with international and government agencies, NGOs, the media, and children and their families to end child labour and provide children with education and assistance.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2013, the ILO operated a program through International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC) entitled \"Combating Abusive Child Labour (CACL-II)\". The project, funded by the European Union, contributed to the Government of Pakistan by providing alternative opportunities for vocational training and education to children withdrawn from the worst forms of child labour.\n\nPeriodically, governments, employers' and workers' organisations have met in global conference to assess progress and remaining obstacles and to agree measures to eliminate the worst forms of child labour by 2016: first in Oslo (1997), secondly in The Hague (2010); the third Global Conference on Child Labour took place in Brasilia, 8010 October 2013, and the fourth global conference is scheduled to be held in Buenos Aires, Argentina, 14–16 November 2017.\n\nThe term child labour can be misleading when it confuses harmful work with employment that may be beneficial to children. It can also ignore harmful work outside employment and any benefits children normally derive from their work. Domestic work is an example: all families but the rich must work at cleaning, cooking, caring, and more to maintain their homes. In most families in the world, this process extends to productive activities, especially herding and various types of agriculture, and to a variety of small family businesses. Where trading is a significant feature of social life, children can start trading in small items at an early age, often in the company of family members or of peers.\n\nWork is undertaken from an early age by vast numbers of children in the world and may have a natural place in growing up.\nWork can contribute to the well-being of children in a variety of ways; children often choose to work to improve their lives, both in the short- and long-term. At the material level, children’s work often contributes to producing food or earning income that benefits themselves and their families; and such income is especially important when the families are poor. Work can provide an escape from debilitating poverty, sometimes by allowing a young person to move away from an impoverished environment. Young people often enjoy their work, especially paid work, or when work involves the company of peers. Even when work is intensive and enforced, children often find ways to combine their work with play.\n\nWhile full-time work hinders schooling, empirical evidence is varied on the relationship between part-time work and school. Sometimes even part-time work may hinder school attendance or performance. On the other hand, many poor children work for resources to attend school. Children who are not doing well at school sometimes seek more satisfactory experience in work. Good relations with a supervisor at work can provide relief from tensions that children feel at school and home. In the modern world, school education has become so central to society that schoolwork has become the dominant work for most children, often replacing participation in productive work. If school curricula or quality do not provide children with appropriate skills for available jobs or if children do nor have the aptitude for schoolwork, school may impede the learning of skills, such as agriculture, which will become necessary for future livelihood.\n\n\nInternational conventions and other instruments:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18713986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18713986", "title": "Columbia Human Rights Law Review", "text": "Columbia Human Rights Law Review\n\nThe Columbia Human Rights Law Review is a law review established in 1967 focusing on human rights issues. The journal is produced and edited by students of the Columbia University Law School and is \"dedicated to the analysis and discussion of human rights and civil liberties under both domestic and international law.\" In 2016, the journal launched HRLR Online, an online publication featuring shorter, cutting-edge pieces focusing on human rights.\n\nThe journal has published Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Bishop Desmond Tutu, Amal Clooney, Judge Morris Lasker, Vernon Jordan, Michael Posner, Vilma Martinez, Jack Greenberg, Marian Wright Edelman, Albie Sachs, Eben Moglen, Louis Henkin, Gerald Neuman, Jeremy Waldron, James Liebman, Harold Hongju Koh, Mary Robinson, Fionnuala Ni Aolain, Sarah Cleveland, and Justice Arthur Chaskalson, among others.\n\nThe journal is currently the highest-ranked human rights law journal in the world. Since 2006, it has been the most cited human rights law journal in the world.\n\nSince 1978, the editors of the journal have also published \"A Jailhouse Lawyer's Manual\".\n"}
{"id": "53361371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53361371", "title": "Conventional treatment", "text": "Conventional treatment\n\nConventional treatment or Conventional therapy is the therapy that is widely used and accepted by most Health professionals. It is different from alternative therapies, which are not as widely used. Examples of conventional treatment some treatment for cancer include surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy.\n"}
{"id": "1863594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1863594", "title": "Coordination failure (political science)", "text": "Coordination failure (political science)\n\nCoordination failure is the electoral problem resulting from competition between two or more candidates or political parties from the same or approximate location in the political ideological spectrum or space against an opposing candidate or political party from the other side of the political ideological spectrum or space. The resulting fragmentation of political support may result in electoral defeat. Coordination failures, and thus political calculations attempting to avoid them, appear most frequently in elections involving executives and representatives from single member districts. \n\n\"Coordination Failure\" in a game-theoretic context is a state of affairs in which agents' inability to coordinate their behavior (choices) leads to an outcome (equilibrium) that leaves all agents worse off than in an alternative situation that is also an equilibrium. This can occur due to lack of information, inefficiencies, or differing expectations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2193172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193172", "title": "Democratic Co-operative Party", "text": "Democratic Co-operative Party\n\nThe Democratic Co-operative Party (DEMKOP), was a small local political party in Ovamboland, Namibia led by Johannes Nangutuuala. The party opposed South African occupation of South West Africa and joined the SWAPO Youth League at rallies. Nangutuuala was publicly flogged for his political activism. Established in 1973 it was active only for a short while; by 1975 its activities had ceased, and its leader Nangutuuala had taken up work with the South African administration in Ovamboland.\n"}
{"id": "3155556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3155556", "title": "Diplomatic Revolution", "text": "Diplomatic Revolution\n\nThe Diplomatic Revolution of 1756 was the reversal of longstanding alliances in Europe between the War of the Austrian Succession and the Seven Years' War. Austria went from an ally of Britain to an ally of France, while Prussia became an ally of Britain. The most influential diplomat involved was an Austrian statesman, Wenzel Anton von Kaunitz.\n\nThe change was part of the stately quadrille, a constantly shifting pattern of alliances throughout the 18th century, efforts to preserve or upset the European balance of power.\n\nThe diplomatic change was triggered by a separation of interests between Austria, Britain, and France. The Peace of Aix-la-Chapelle, after the War of the Austrian Succession in 1748, left Austria aware of the high price it paid in having Britain as an ally. Maria Theresa of Austria had defended her claim to the Habsburg throne and had her husband, Francis Stephen, crowned Emperor in 1745. However, she had been forced to relinquish valuable territory in the process. Under British diplomatic pressure, Maria Theresa had given up most of Lombardy and occupied Bavaria. The British also forced her to cede Parma to Spain and, more importantly, to abandon the valuable state of Silesia to Prussian occupation.\n\nDuring the war, Frederick II (\"the Great\") of Prussia had seized Silesia, one of the Bohemian crown lands. That acquisition had further advanced Prussia as a great European power, which now posed an increasing threat to Austria's German lands and to Central Europe as a whole. The growth of Prussia, dangerous to Austria, was welcomed by the British, who saw it as a means of balancing French power and reducing French influence in Germany, which might otherwise have grown in response to Austria's weakness.\n\nThe results of the War of Austrian Succession made it clear that Britain no longer viewed Austria as powerful enough to check French power but was content to build up smaller states like Prussia. Therefore, Britain and Prussia, in the Westminster Convention (16 January 1756), agreed that Britain would not aid Austria in a renewed conflict for Silesia if Prussia agreed to protect Hanover from France. Protection of Hanover was important to Britain because it was a possession of its king, George II (who was born and raised in the Electorate). Britain felt that with Prussia's growing strength, it would be more apt to defend Hanover than Austria. Meanwhile, Austria was determined to reclaim Silesia so the two allies found themselves with conflicting interests. Maria Theresa recognized the futility of renewed alliance with Britain and so set out to align Austria with France, who could replace Britain as a valuable ally. Maria Theresa knew that without a powerful ally such as France, she could never hope to reclaim Silesia from Frederick.\n\nThe agreement was followed by a more direct Anglo-Prussian Convention in 1758.\n\nMaria Theresa sent her foreign policy minister, Count Wenzel Anton von Kaunitz, to France to secure an alliance to enable Austria to reclaim Silesia. Kaunitz approached Madame de Pompadour, Louis XV's mistress, to intervene in the negotiations. However, Louis XV proved reluctant to agree to any treaty presented by Kaunitz. Only with renewed aggression between France and Britain was Louis made to align with Austria.\n\nFurthermore, Austria no longer surrounded France; instead, Frederick II had managed to end the prospect of Habsburg-German dominion bordering French lands. Therefore, France no longer saw Austria as an immediate threat and so entered into a defensive alliance with Austria. In response to the Westminster Convention, Louis XV’s ministers and Kaunitz concluded the First Treaty of Versailles (1 May 1756), both sides agreeing to remain neutral and to provide 24,000 troops if either one got into conflict with a third party.\n\nMaria Theresa's diplomats, after securing French neutrality, actively began to establish an anti-Prussian coalition. Austria's actions alerted Frederick II, who decided to strike first by invading Saxony, commencing the Seven Years' War (1756–1763). Frederick's actions were meant to scare Russia out of supporting Austria (the two countries had previously entered into a defensive alliance in 1746). However, by invading Saxony, Frederick had inflamed his enemies; Russia, under the direction of Empress Elizabeth, sent an additional 80,000 troops to Austria. One year after the signing of the First Treaty of Versailles, France and Austria signed a new offensive alliance, the Second Treaty of Versailles, on 1 May 1757.\n\nIn it, Austria promised France the Austrian Netherlands, but in return, Maria Theresa would receive Parma as well as 129,000 French troops and the promise of 12 million livres every year until Silesia was returned to Austria.\n\nAs a result of this diplomatic revolution, Britain and Prussia faced Austria, France and Russia. Despite the reversal of alliances, however, the basic antagonisms remained: Prussia versus Austria and Britain versus France. All the tensions erupted during the Seven Years' War to which the Diplomatic Revolution is considered a prelude.\n\nThe war ended in a victory for Britain and Prussia. Britain's control of the seas and Prussia's formidable army proved to be a winning combination, despite the attempts of France, Austria and their European allies to preserve the balance of power.\n\nHowever, the Anglo-Prussian alliance proved to be short-lived largely because Britain withdrew financial and military support for Prussia in 1762; Prussia subsequently allied with Russia instead. The dissolution of the alliance and the pre-eminent rise of Britain left it with no allies by the time the American Revolutionary War broke out.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45635585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45635585", "title": "Dwekh Nawsha", "text": "Dwekh Nawsha\n\nThe Dwekh Nawsha (; literally \"one who sacrifices\") is a military organization created in June 2014 in order to defend Iraq's Assyrian population from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), and possibly retake their lands currently controlled by ISIL. They are a Christian militia.\n\nThe Dwekh Nawsha operates in coordination with the regional and international security forces.\n\nDespite being led by the Assyrian Patriotic Party, most militiamen are not members of the party. Several foreign fighters have joined the \"Dwekh Nawsha\"; they include Americans, French, British and Australians.\n\nSons of Liberty International, who had previously trained the Nineveh Plain Protection Units, announced in fall 2015 that they will begin training Dwekh Nawsha in their fight against ISIL. \n\n"}
{"id": "320433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320433", "title": "Europa Universalis II", "text": "Europa Universalis II\n\nEuropa Universalis II is a strategy computer game developed by Paradox Development Studio and published by Strategy First, based on world history spanning a timeline between 1419 through 1820. It was released on December 11, 2001.\n\nIn the game, the player controls a single nation across many centuries, managing its economy, military, political alliances, scientific development, exploration and colonization, religious affairs, and internal stability. In addition, yearly random events, as well as hundreds of pre-scripted ones based on the historical record, make for a great deal of gameplay challenge and variety.\n\n\"Europa Universalis II\" differs from many similar turn-based strategy games in that time flows continuously during gameplay, rather than taking place in discrete turns. The player is able to pause the action to ponder the situation and give orders, then speed up or slow down time to let events take their course.\n\nThe game ships with several historical scenarios, including games that take place during the Age of Exploration, the American Revolution, and the Napoleonic Wars. The Grand Campaign lets players choose one world power and guide it from the end of the Middle Ages and into the 19th century. There is also a Fantasy Scenario, starting in an unoccupied and unexplored earth with only 8 civilizations to choose. In this scenario, casual gameplay and strategy that should be applied are slightly different, more like a 4X game with a strong emphasis on colonization.\n\nWhile the Grand Campaign is geared primarily towards the major European powers of the time, such as Austria, England, France, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden, and Ottoman Empire, the game is unique in that players can choose to play as one of more than a hundred obscure, no longer existing nations, from the Indian subcontinent to the Balkans.\n\nThe game was developed by Paradox Interactive as a sequel to \"Europa Universalis\", and was first released for the PC in 2001 by Strategy First, with a Macintosh port created by Virtual Programming and published by MacPlay. A Linux port was in development but was not released.\n\nThe game goes into a great deal of granular detail, including urban populations for each of the hundreds of provinces, thousands of historical monarchs, generals, and explorers, as well as names for colonies, armies, and fleets.\n\nIn addition, with almost all of the game data stored in easy-to-edit text files, Europa Universalis II is easy to modify and customize, which has yielded a large and thriving mod community. Players have been able to create new flags, maps, units, historical events, leaders and even entire scenarios.\n\nIt is also possible to play a campaign beginning with \"Crusader Kings\", followed by \"Europa Universalis II\", \"\" (or \"Victoria II\") and finished with \"Hearts of Iron II: Doomsday\", allowing for campaigns to range from 1066 to 1954. This is by using the in-built features of these games that convert a saved campaign to the chronologically-next Paradox title.\n\nA version of the game, called \"Europa Universalis II: Asia Chapters\", was released for Asian markets, adding new graphics and scenarios that center around Asian history instead. It featured an updated map with greater detail and added provinces in Japan, Korea, and China.\n\n\"Europa Universalis II\" was nominated for \"Computer Gaming World\"s 2002 \"Strategy Game of the Year\" award, which ultimately went to \"Freedom Force\". \"Europa Universalis II\" received \"generally favourable\" reviews according to review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18567962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18567962", "title": "European Movement UK", "text": "European Movement UK\n\nThe European Movement UK is an independent pressure group in the United Kingdom which campaigns in support of greater European integration and for reform of the European Union. It is part of the European Movement International which pushes for a \"democratic, federal, enlarged European Union\".\n\nThe current President of the European Movement UK is Lord Ashdown and the current chairman (since December 2016) is Stephen Dorrell. The organisation promotes a \"more democratic, effective and accountable\" EU. It opposes Brexit.\n\nThe origins of the European Movement lie in the aftermath of the Second World War. More than eight hundred delegates from across Europe gathered in The Hague in May 1948, under the chairmanship of Sir Winston Churchill, to create a new international movement to promote European unity and prevent further wars between its European countries. The British section of the European Movement was founded a year later.\n\nDuring the UK's European Communities membership referendum in 1975, the organisation was involved within the 'Yes' campaign.\n\nOther campaigns since then have included pressing for direct elections to the European Parliament in the 1970s and promoting the benefits of the single market in the run-up to 1992. \n\nIt campaigned for Britain to remain in the EU in the 2016 referendum and continues to oppose Brexit in collaboration with other major pro-European campaign groups such as Open Britain and Britain for Europe. \n\nIn February 2018 George Soros's Open Society Foundations donated £500,000 to a number of groups opposing Brexit including £182,000 to European Movement UK. In April the same year the group joined the People's Vote to campaign for a second vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "360856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360856", "title": "Family dictatorship", "text": "Family dictatorship\n\nA hereditary dictatorship, or family dictatorship, in political science terms a personalistic regime, is a form of dictatorship that occurs in a nominally or formally republican or socialist regime, but operates in practice like an absolute monarchy or despotate, in that political power passes within the dictator's family. Thus, although the key leader is often called president or prime minister rather than a king or emperor, power is transmitted between members of the same family due to the overwhelming authority of the leader. Sometimes the leader has been declared president for life and uses this power to nominate one of his or her family as successor.\n\nA family dictatorship is different from a monarchy (where the descent is required by general constitutional law), or a political family (where members of the family possess informal, rather than formal and overwhelming political authority).\n\nA family dictatorship is different from an absolute monarchy, and the ruler does not usually base his or her authority on the concept of divine right. In the latter, the transition of power within a family is required by general law as part of the state's constitutional arrangement, and continues to apply to all successions in the regime. In the former, this arrangement is not required by general law. In some cases, a special law might be enacted to formally nominate one particular family member of the present leader as the successor. In other cases, the law of the state may even formally provide for elections, but control exerted by the leader on the political and electoral process ensures a hereditary succession. Furthermore, whether each succession succeeds depends on the level of authority and control of the leader. As a result, modern family dictatorships often transition into a non-familial (non-personalistic) regime after a small number of successions: usually just one, and rarely more than two.\n\nA family dictatorship is also different from other political families. In the latter, informal power and influence accrued to the family enables the family to continue to hold political power, often through open and contested elections. In the former, the family uses either formal legal or political power or control to ensure a familial succession, and usually via a controlled or uncontested election, or no election at all.\n\nBecause a family dictatorship exerts significant control on its succession, a successor is often determined well in advance. However, because it often lacks a formal general law basis for the succession, there are often long periods of uncertainty as to the identity of the successor. As often happens in other types of totalitarian regimes which plan their own succession, after a successor is determined or short-listed, they often go through a significant period of \"grooming\", in which the successor gains the experiences and qualifications aimed to make him or her attain the authority necessary to lead the regime.\n\nDates in parentheses denote the period of rule.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15301370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15301370", "title": "Flag of the Arab Revolt", "text": "Flag of the Arab Revolt\n\nThe Flag of the Arab Revolt also known as the Flag of Hejaz was a flag used by the Arab nationalists during the Arab Revolt against the Ottoman Empire during World War I.\n\nThe flag was designed by the British diplomat Sir Mark Sykes, in an effort to create a feeling of \"Arab-ness\" in order to fuel the revolt. Although the Arab Revolt was only very limited in scope and concerted by the British rather than by Arabs themselves, the flag influenced the national flags of a number of emerging Arab states after World War I. Flags inspired by that of the Arab revolt include those of Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait, Sudan, Syria, the United Arab Emirates, Yemen, Palestine, Somaliland, the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic and Libya.\n\nThe horizontal colors stand for the Abbasid (black), Umayyad (white) and Fatimid (green) Caliphates. The red triangle refers to the Hashemite dynasty. Alternately, the colours' symbolism has been described as follows: white for the Damascene Umayyad period, green for the Caliph Ali, red for the Khawarij radical Islamic movement, and black for the Prophet Mohammed, showing the \"political use of religion\" in opposition to the increasingly secularized Turkish colonial rule.\n\nThe Hashemites were allies of the British in the conflict against the Ottoman Empire. After the war ended, the Hashemites achieved or were granted rule in the Hejaz region of Arabia, Jordan, formally known as the \"Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan\", briefly in Greater Syria, and Iraq. \n\nGreater Syria was dissolved after only a few months of existence, in 1920. The Hashemites were overthrown in the Hejaz in 1925 by the House of Saud, and in Iraq in 1958 by a coup d'etat, but retained power in Jordan.\n\nA 60 m × 30 m version of the flag currently flies from the Aqaba Flagpole, currently the sixth tallest freestanding flagpole in the world, located in Aqaba, Jordan.\n\nThe flag contains the four Pan-Arab colors: black, white, green and red. There are three horizontal stripes: black, green, and white, going down the flag. There is also a red triangle on the hoist side of the flag.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3274593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3274593", "title": "Fomenko", "text": "Fomenko\n\nFomenko is a (Cyrillic: Фоменко) is a Russified form of a Ukrainian surname derived from the name Thomas (, Foma). The Ukrainian form of the surname is Khomenko.\n\nIt may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "58052458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58052458", "title": "Geneva Water Hub", "text": "Geneva Water Hub\n\nThe Geneva Water Hub is a water research and policy institute headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. Established by the Swiss Confederation and the University of Geneva it focuses on hydro-diplomacy to prevent and resolve water-related conflicts, conducts water related research, runs education courses and is a think-tank on global water governance and its challenges. \n\nFounded in 2014, the Geneva Water Hub, with offices at the University of Geneva and the World Meteorological Organization, works to bridge the gap between water research, policy and practice on the ground - often at cross boundary and river basin scale. \n\nFrom 2015 until 2017 it acted as the Secretariat to the Global High Level Panel on Water and Peace and now acts as the secretariat for the Group of Friends for Water and Peace, about forty countries represented by their Permanent Missions to the United Nations in Geneva. It also coordinates the Universities Partnership for Water Cooperation and Diplomacy, launched at the 2018 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland with IHE Delft Institute for Water Education, the Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, the German-Kazakh University in Almaty, and Oregon State University. This university consortium was established to encourage dialogue and capacity-building between countries and among different professional sectors.  \n\nIn 2015, the World Economic Forum ranked water scarcity as the largest global risk over the next decade. Already, 40% of the world's population is affected by water scarcity on a planet where more than 260 international rivers cross many man-made boundaries. In addition, more than half the planet's wetlands have disappeared and climate change is impacting weather and water patterns around the world.  \n\nYet, as the dialogue of ‘water wars’ increases, research shows that water is far more a tool for cooperation and peace than conflict. During the 20 century there were only seven minor confrontations over water, with 145 treaties signed in the same 100 years.\n\nThrough academic research, policy and hydro-diplomacy the Geneva Water Hub works to shift the global dialogue from ‘water and conflict’ to ‘water for peace and cooperation’, to deliver better water governance and the long-term protection of critical water resources and infrastructure.  \n\nIn 2015, the Geneva Water Hub began working as Secretariat to the Global High Level Panel on Water and Peace – a 15 country co-convened initiative focused on strengthening the global framework to prevent and resolve water-related conflicts and to facilitate the use of water as an instrument of peace and cooperation.  \n\nIn its 2017 report “A Matter of Survival” the Global High-Level Panel on Water and Peace outlined its recommendations for a fundamental rethinking of international water cooperation from the UN Security Council to other multilateral institutions and down to grass-roots level organisations.\n\nAt the University of Geneva, the Geneva Water Hub runs an annual Summer School in Water Governance and a distance learning course on International Water Law and the Law of Transboundary Aquifers. It also offers several open access Massive Online Open Courses for water technicians and the water policy community on topics such as water resources policy and management, international water law and ecosystem services. \n"}
{"id": "33887703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33887703", "title": "Hammer &amp; Tickle", "text": "Hammer &amp; Tickle\n\nHammer & Tickle: The Communist Joke Book is a 2006 documentary film about the nature of Russian political jokes under the powerful and socially restrictive Communist regime of the Soviet Union and its satellite nations. The film's name exemplifies the kind of mockery or criticism of the regime that the Soviet government would have found to be disagreeable by playing on the symbol of communism itself, the hammer and sickle. The film tells the story of the power that jokes had to enable social and political change and advance personal freedoms from within the USSR - the film's opening scene uses a quote from George Orwell's \"1984\": \"Every joke is a tiny revolution.\"\n\nUnder the watchful eyes of the oppressive Soviet government, the Russian people had very few outlets in which they could publicly express their disapproval of their government and its policies. The film shows the story of how jokes served as an outlet for the people's expression of their desire for reform and freedom. These jokes were often told quietly to one another, as to avoid retribution from the Soviet secret police agencies who kept a close eye on such expressions of political dissent. Oftentimes, however, even private and seemingly benign displays of such dissent couldn't escape detection. Eva Kovacs of the Secret Police Archives in Hungary tells the story of a university student who spent two years in prison and had all his possessions confiscated after telling an unseemly joke about Comrade Rákosi.\n\nIn an interview with Ilie Merce (), former Colonel of the Communist Romanian secret police agency Securitate, Merce says that his agency paid particular attention to jokes about the lack of availability of basic products and the censorship of television, as they \"functioned as indicators of the spirit of the people.\"\n\nOn several occasions, the film shows U.S. President Ronald Reagan poking fun at the Soviet Union's shortcomings, highlighting how he too used humor to sway public opinion.\n\n\"Hammer & Tickle\" premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival in 2006 to positive reviews, and won the title of \"Best Documentary\" at the Zurich Film Festival later that year.\n\nLewis published an essay (in \"Prospect Magazine\", 2006) and book (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 2008) with the same title.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18384154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18384154", "title": "Hans Martin Sutermeister", "text": "Hans Martin Sutermeister\n\nHans Martin Sutermeister (29 September 1907 – 4 May 1977 pen name: Hans Moehrlen) was a Swiss physician and medical writer, politician, and activist against miscarriages of justice.\n\nHans Martin was born to Freidrich Sutermeister (1873-1934) and Maria Hunziker (1875-1947). His brothers include the writer Peter and composer Heinrich. His grandfather was the folklorist Otto Sutermeister. A minister's son, Hans Martin studied theology in Germany, changing to medicine at University of Basel just before completing his degree. After his promotion with his uncle Hans Hunziker in 1941, Sutermeister published, under the pseudonym “Hans Moehrlen” (following the surname of his great-grandfather Christophe Moehrlen), an autobiographical novella about his life as a bachelor. The novella describes his philosophical change of direction towards a monist view of love and happiness, inspired by natural science; remarkably is its heartedness in times of war. In the following years, Sutermeister published a series on neopositivist medical thought. He was especially interested in psychosomatic medicine and music psychology. For example, according to him, “swing music is restful” because the brain becomes fatigued when it is worked too hard, as in acquiring knowledge of new facts. Both students and business men can benefit by such music … the best way to rest the brain after such fatigue is to “regress” to more basic or primitive forms of thought and feeling.\n\nDuring World War II, he worked for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration in Germany, Poland and Czechoslovakia, as well as a physician at the Swiss border. After the war he wrote for medical journals and was an instructor in psychophysiology at the Volkshochschule (Folk high school) in Bern. In 1945, he opened his first a family medical practice in Bern.\n\nIn order to get a venia legendi in History of Medicine and Medical Psychology (Psychosomatics), Sutermeister successively deposited, at the beginning of the 1950s, three post-doctoral theses at the Medical Faculty of the University of Berne:\n\n\nSutermeister was in contact with the medical historian Erich Hintzsche particularly because of his work \"Schiller as physician\", and he participated in a seminar on medical history 1953 in Lugano. In a letter to Hintzsche, Henry E. Sigerist described Sutermeister's review, published in 1955 as Volume 13 of the \"Berne contributions to the history of medicine and natural sciences\", as “a very nice work … that is interesting even to literary historians.” The assessor Jakob Klaesi recommended to the Dean of the Faculty Bernhard Walthard to allow Sutermeister's habilitation allow for the government to issue Sutermeister's habilitation as a lecturer in Medicine history and Psychosomatic medicine. Hintzsche, however, who decided jointly, rejected his habilitation.\n\nHe joined the Ring of Independents political party and began his political career in the legislature of the Canton of Bern. From 1967 to 1971 he served as a member of the municipal executive, as well as director of the city's schools. As school director, he promoted comprehensive schools. Although he had a reputation as a progressive within his party, he also stirred some concern both inside and outside the party by fiercely criticizing \"The Little Red Schoolbook\", an educational manifesto deriving from the 1968 student protest movement that urged students to reject societal norms. \"Der Spiegel\" quoted his warning to all educators: We will not permit our youth, who are today still healthy, and our freedom-based Western culture, to be undermined by such softening-up tactics, which are clearly controlled from the East, and made 'Ready for conquest' by Communism.\nand added that some schools banned the book; Radio Bern canceled a broadcast on it; and bookstores canceled orders; the city authorities determined that the book was not seditious, but with police assurance that they had the power to do so, banned it as posing a danger to minors. His actions revealed latent attitudinal and generational divisions within the party, and he was not re-elected in 1971.\n\nIn 1972, he opened his new family medical practice in Basel.\n\nIn the 1960s, Sutermeister became interested in forensic pathology, and began to involve himself in investigating and attempting to right miscarriages of justice. He traveled widely and wrote analyses on false recognition, intimidation by prison inmates, uncritical acceptance of expert testimony, suggestibility and emotionalism in jurors and psychological errors by judges. His book \"Summa Iniuria\", which treats hundreds of cases, is one of the most thorough German-language works in the field. He concerned himself particularly with the case of Pierre Jaccoud, whom he was convinced had been wrongly convicted of murdering Charles Zumbach based on faulty forensic work. At one point Pierre Hegg, the head of the police criminological laboratory, sued him for defamation. His efforts on behalf of Jaccoud made him a prominent and effective opponent of courtroom injustice, and he went so far as to assemble the funds to hire Horace Mastronardi and other lawyers to appeal Jaccoud's conviction. Despite his efforts, the case was never reopened.\n\nThe criminal law expert Karl Peters puts Sutermeister's \"Summa iniuria\" in the context of the earlier works of Erich Sello, Max Alsberg, Albert Hellwig, Max Hirschberg and Heinrich Jagusch and considers him as a \"committed fighters for a constitutionally protected Criminal Justice\".\n\nThe bibliography of Hans Martin Sutermeister includes a fictional novel and around 150 scientific articles, essays and books, some of them Investigative journalism written by the Swiss writer Hans Martin Sutermeister, pen name Hans Moehrlen (1907–1977). Sutermeister was a prolific writer on topics related to psychosomatic medicine, music psychology and history of medicine as well as contemporary Swiss society and cultural criticism, whom Karl Peters in 2008 declared \"a fierce fighter for justice.\"\n\nSutermeister is best remembered for his contradictory political as a both-left-and-rightwing libertarian-authoritarian presence in local media. Every line of work that he has written since 1942 seeming, directly or indirectly, in favour of a monist worldview. To that end, Sutermeister used his scientific writing to defend his political convictions, as shown in several book reviews. He first achieved acclaim with his non–fictional books from \"Psychologie und Weltanschauung\" (1944) to \"Schiller als Arzt\" (1955) and cemented his place in local history as one of the greatest Swiss pamphletists with the publication of \"\" shortly before his death.\n\nSutermeister wrote non-fiction—including book reviews, editorials, and investigative journalism—for a variety of Swiss periodicals, mainly medical journals. He particularly wrote a book-length investigation of comprehensive schools in Switzerland and another of miscarriages of justice in the form of \"\", a retrospective of criminal justice mainly in Switzerland and Germany.\n\nNo attempts have been made until now to comprehensively collect the entirety of his miscellany.\n\nSutermeister composed one novel, \"Zwischen zwei Welten\", which is autobiographical; it was inspired by his period working as a student during wartime; it records his experiences living and tramping in a town where he later finished his medical studies; the names are partially fictionalized:\n\n\nAmong his Non-fiction books are the writings of his Neopositivist period (1942–1945) which culminates in his article \"Der Neopositivismus als neue Einheitsweltanschauung\" (1945; see below): \n\nDoctoral dissertation:\n\nAt the University of Berne, Sutermeister presented subsequently three Habilitation theses, which were all rejected:\n\nSutermeister wrote dozens of essays and book reviews. His insights into history of medicine, literature, and politics (defending in particular anti-fascist, liberal socialist, freethought and somehow anti-communist ideas) during the following years. Since his death, many essays have disappeared, with the first attempt at a comprehensive collection being this list. Some of his essays, mainly during his time as member of the Ring of Independents political party, took the form of pamphlets and were published and distributed (by himself) independently.\n\nThe following list contains the articles which are both registered in PubMed and can be considered as outstanding because of their scope, theme range or length:\n\nVolume 40, Issue 6, 8 February 1951, Pages 121-122. \n\nAs a member of the so–called bernese nonconformists, Sutermeister spoke in the Junkere 37 (sometimes called Speakers' Corner of Bern). Some fragments of these manifestations are traceable in the \"Nonkonformismus Archiv Fredi Lerch\".\n\nWhile Sutermeister was not known for his aesthetic work, he did compose two “little waltz” and a poem:\n\n\nHans Martin married Ingeborg Marie Schulzke, with whom he had three daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "1251799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251799", "title": "Hauptwohnsitz", "text": "Hauptwohnsitz\n\nIn German-speaking countries, Hauptwohnsitz () denotes the primary place of residence. In Germany and Austria, the concept of Hauptwohnsitz has special legal ramifications, primarily involving tax.\n\nIn Austria the Hauptwohnsitz has an important meaning in the context of financial adjustment between the federation and the local municipalities. On the basis of the census determined number of inhabitants with Hauptwohnsitz, the municipality receives its budget from the federal government. Hauptwohnsitze count themselves for a municipality in two regards: By the direct payment per head, and an increase in premiums after exceeding certain thresholds for the number of inhabitants. This leads to frequent censuses to match the budget of a municipality to its number of inhabitants. In fact, many municipalities are negatively affected by this system. The city of Graz, Austria's second largest city, counts about 260,000 registered Hauptwohnsitze, however, almost 300,000 people do have their main residence there, as there are many students still having their Hauptwohnsitz registered in their hometowns. Since those are not taken into account concerning fiscal distribution, Graz faces serious economic problems. Currently there are campaigns trying to motivate students having their Hauptwohnsitz registered there.\n\nThe Hauptwohnsitz in Germany is based on the main center of ones' interest (\"Lebensmittelpunkt\"). The Hauptwohnsitz is also the place in which one exercises the right to vote, and where the municipal administration issues a citizen's ID card and passport. The income tax revenue is split between the federal government, the Land government and the municipality where the respective taxpayer has their \"Hauptwohnsitz\". Apart from the \"Hauptwohnsitz\" a person can establish multiple secondary places of residence (\"Nebenwohnsitze\", sg. \"Nebenwohnsitz\") where they are also registered as residents but do not have a right to vote. A number of German municipalities impose a secondary-residence tax (\"Zweitwohnungssteuer\") on persons having such a secondary residence, the rationale for that being that they have to provide services to these persons but do not share in their income tax.\n\n"}
{"id": "28666608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28666608", "title": "Hegewald (colony)", "text": "Hegewald (colony)\n\nHegewald was a short-lived German colony during World War II, situated near Zhytomyr in Reichskommissariat Ukraine. It was repopulated in late 1942 and early 1943 by the ethnically German settlers classified as \"Volksdeutsche\"; transferred from occupied territories of Poland, Croatia, Bessarabia, and the Soviet Union to an area earmarked for the projected Germanization of the Ukrainian lands. The plans were prepared months in advance by the SS, RKFDV and VoMi, but major problems with supplies occurred right from the region's initial establishment. Heinrich Himmler's original plans to recruit settlers from Scandinavia and the Netherlands were unsuccessful.\n\nThe initial plans were difficult to implement for a number of reasons including the reluctance and fear among many \"Volksdeutsche\" owing to partisan activities in the area. Elaborate guidelines were set up to prepare the locations. The new settlers were to receive the homes of killed or evicted Ukrainian peasants, as well as their furniture, livestock, and food, and schools were to be built. This required a massive deportation effort, mostly on foot. Most homes were in terrible shape by German standards. There was a considerable shortage of lumber, and general lack of winter clothing and shoes.\n\nThe Ukrainian and Polish Germans did arrive on trains, having been forcibly removed from their homes, to be doled out plots of land and informed of their quotas. They received use, but not ownership, of the land assigned to them.\n\nNeither the deported Ukrainians nor the ethnic Germans received more than a few hours' notice of their relocation. Despite damage to the houses, most could be made functional before snowfall. Elaborate Christmas pageants were set up, deliberately irreligious, to celebrate the return of light and link it to the \"dark powers\" surrounding Germany, and gifts and food were provided.\n\nAll did not go as planned. The intended preparations were undermined by flinching of craftsmen, and neither food nor clothing arrived as promised. Furthermore, many evicted Ukrainians returned to the area. Efforts were made to continue, with the League of German Girls members being sent even when they had to receive gas masks and soldier escorts, but by November 1943, the inhabitants were in flight before the Red Army. These were the first of massive flights from Eastern Europe.\n\nThe colony consisted of 27 villages, all named in German differently from their traditional names; they were situated along the Zhytomyr-Berdychiv road. The existing villages of today are in the Ukrainian language.\n"}
{"id": "865389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=865389", "title": "International Crisis Group", "text": "International Crisis Group\n\nThe International Crisis Group (ICG; also simply known as the Crisis Group) is a transnational non-profit, non-governmental organization founded in 1995 that carries out field research on violent conflict and advances policies to prevent, mitigate or resolve conflict. It advocates policies directly with governments, multilateral organisations and other political actors as well as the media. Destexhe was succeeded in September 2014 by Jean-Marie Guéhenno. In January 2018 Robert Malley, became President and CEO.\n\nThe ICG garnered controversy in April 2013 as it awarded Myanmar President Thein Sein its \"In Pursuit of Peace Award\", with the award ceremony coinciding with the publication of a Human Rights Watch report of ethnic cleansing by Sein's administration.<\n\nGareth Evans, president and CEO of the International Crisis Group for nine years and former foreign minister of Australia, officially recognized East Timor as a province of Indonesia, a decade after the dictatorship invaded and carried out a \"genocide\" of the East Timorese in 1991, killing 200,000, according to a report co-sponsored by the Australian Parliament. Evans described the massacre by the Indonesian Army as an \"aberration.\"\n\nA July 2014 special edition of the peer-reviewed journal \"Third World Quarterly\" published 10 critiques of the organisation, ranging from it's influence on foreign-policy makers, \"manufacturing\" crises, and the methodologies it deploys in gathering its research.\n\nA January 1995 meeting in London brought many international figures together, and approved a proposal for an annual budget of $8m and 75 full-time staff. In mid-1995 it was formally registered in the US as a tax-exempt non-profit organisation.From 1996 to 1999, Crisis Group had an annual budget of around $2m and around 20 full-time staff; by 2008 its budget was $15m. By 2017 its budget had risen to over $17 million. Crisis Group receives funding under grants from governments, charitable foundations, private companies and individual donors. In 2017, it received 43% of its funding from governments, 28% from charitable foundations, 22% from the private sector, 3% from investment income, 3% from other sources and 2% from program service revenue.\n\nCrisis Group is headquartered in Brussels, with advocacy offices in Washington DC, New York and London. Other legally registered offices are based in Bogotá, Colombia; Dakar, Senegal; Istanbul, Turkey; and Nairobi, Kenya.\n\nAs of June 2018, Crisis Group has a presence in Abu Dhabi, Abuja, Bangkok, Beirut, Caracas, Gaza City, Guatemala City, Hong Kong, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Juba, Kabul, Kiev, Mexico City, Mogadishu, Rabat, Tblisi, Toronto, Tunis and Yangon. Crisis Group also has a presence in a number of other countries, the details of which are not disclosed primarily for reasons of field-based staff security.\n\n"}
{"id": "859606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=859606", "title": "Italy of Values", "text": "Italy of Values\n\nItaly of Values (, IdV) is a centrist, populist and anti-corruption political party in Italy. The party was founded in 1998 by former \"Mani pulite\" prosecutor Antonio Di Pietro, who entered politics in 1996 and finally left the party in 2014. IdV has aimed at gathering and giving voice to different sectors of the Italian society. From the beginning of its existence one of its major issues has been the so-called \"moral issue\".\n\nAntonio Di Pietro was minister of Public Works in the Prodi I Cabinet from May to November 1996, when he resigned because he was under investigation in Brescia. In November 1997 Di Pietro was elected senator for The Olive Tree in a by-election in Mugello, a stronghold of the Democrats of the Left (DS) in Tuscany, with 67.7% of the vote, much more than centre-right independent Giuliano Ferrara (16.1%) and Communist Sandro Curzi (13.0%).\n\nIn March 1998 Di Pietro established his party, Italy of Values (IdV), alongside Willer Bordon of the Democratic Union and Rino Piscitello and Franco Danieli of The Network, led by Leoluca Orlando (a future IdV member).\n\nIn February 1999 Di Pietro integrated IdV into The Democrats, a new centrist party founded by Romano Prodi with the goal of transforming The Olive Tree coalition in a single \"Democratic\" party. In the 1999 European Parliament election The Democrats scored 7.7% and Di Pietro was elected MEP. He was also appointed organisational secretary and Senate floor leader of the party. In April 2000, however, Di Pietro abruptly left in opposition to the appointment of Giuliano Amato, a long-time member of the Italian Socialist Party (which was the main subject of investigation of Di Pietro as prosecutor), as Prime Minister of Italy after the resignation of Massimo D'Alema. Shortly afterwards, Di Pietro set up IdV again.\n\nIdV took part to the 2001 general election as a stand-alone party on a populist platform, which included tough management of illegal immigration and protest against waste of public money. IdV's campaign was focused principally against Silvio Berlusconi, who was the candidate for Prime Minister of the House of Freedoms (CdL) centre-right coalition. IdV won 3.9% in the election, 0.1% short of the 4% threshold, and obtained no seats in the Chamber of Deputies. The party elected one senator, Valerio Carrara, but, after a few days from the election, he surprisingly switched to Berlusconi's Forza Italia (FI) party, leaving IdV without parliamentary representation for the next five years.\n\nIn the 2004 European Parliament election Di Pietro teamed up with Achille Occhetto, a former leader of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and the Democratic Party of the Left (PDS), under the banner \"Civil Society Di Pietro–Occhetto\". The electoral list gained 2.1% of the national vote and both men were elected MEPs. After the election, Occhetto immediately renounced to his seat and was replaced by Giulietto Chiesa, a communist journalist, who sat with the Party of European Socialists Group.\n\nIn 2005 IdV joined The Union, a new centre-left coalition led by Prodi, who won the primary election with 74.2% of the vote, defeating also Di Pietro (3.3%). In early 2006 Leoluca Orlando, former mayor of Palermo, some splinters from the Union of Democrats for Europe (UDEUR), including Pino Pisicchio and Egidio Pedrini, and former DS such as Fabio Evangelisti and Federico Palomba, joined the party, in an effort of broadening its electoral base.\n\nThe Union narrowly won the 2006 general election, IdV scored a mere 2.1% and Di Pietro was sworn in as Minister of Infrastructures in the Prodi II Cabinet.\n\nAfter the fall of Prodi's government, Di Pietro formed an alliance with the Democratic Party (PD) for the 2008 general election. The coalition was defeated by Berlusconi's centre-right, but IdV obatained 4.4% of the vote, 29 deputies and 14 senators. Following the election, IdV formed its own groups in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, instead of joining the Democrats in a joint group as promised, and started a competition with its main ally. In October 2008 Veltroni, who distanced from Di Pietro many times, declared that \"on some issues he [Di Pietro] is distant from the democratic language of the centre-left\", however the PD decided to support Carlo Costantini (IdV) in the 2008 regional election in Abruzzo. Costantini was defeated, but in the event IdV came close to the PD (15.0%–19.6%).\n\nIn the 2009 European Parliament election the list got 8.0% of the national vote, quadrupling the votes obtained five years before and gaining 7 seats. In the run-up for the election Di Pietro recruited to run in IdV lists Pino Arlacchi, a former senator for the DS, Gianni Vattimo, a left-wing philosopher, Maurizio Zipponi, a former trade unionist and deputy of the Communist Refoundation Party (PRC), and Luigi de Magistris, a left-wing former prosecutor of Catanzaro who inquired Romano Prodi. Arlacchi, De Magistris and Vattimo were all elected to the European Parliament. From the results of the European election, IdV was the fourth largest party in the country.\n\nFollowing these results, Di Pietro said that IdV \"will remove his name from the symbol of the party, in order to build something larger, more useful and that represents something more important\". He also said that \"we need to become a great progressive party that supports a proposal for a credible government\". However the party's executive finally decided not to remove the name of its founder, considering that name still too important for the party.\n\nSince de Magistris's strong showing in the 2009 European election there was talk of an underground row between him and Di Pietro for the leadership of the party. Moreover, as some members of the party were entailed with corruption charges, others like Francesco Barbato urged Di Pietro to be more earnest in cleaning up the party. De Magistris, keen on aligning the party with the far left and the most radical groups in opposition to Berlusconi, dubbed Di Pietro as too moderate and denounced that the party \"risks of becoming the DC of the third millennium\". While the party's grassroots supported a change of leadership and de Magistris initially did not rule this out, the party's old guard (Silvana Mura, Massimo Donadi, Felice Belisario, Luigi Li Gotti and Leoluca Orlando) staunchly defended the leader. Finally an agreement was reached between the two: during the 5–7 February 2010 party congress de Magistris would support Di Pietro in exchange of a leading role in the party. In any event Di Pietro was re-elected as party president unopposed, while de Magistris did not became party secretary as he wanted.\n\nThe populist course taken by the party, that enforced its co-operation with the far left, and the emergence of more \"extreme\" figures like de Magistris led Pino Pisicchio and his centrist faction to leave the party in order to join Francesco Rutelli's Alliance for Italy (ApI) in November 2009. While leaving the party along with other three MPs, Pisicchio told the press that lining up IdV in the \"antagonist camp\" was a departure from its original nature of a \"centrist party of liberal-democratic inspiration\". Giuseppe Astore, a senator, offered similar views: \"De Magistris is too far on the left for me [...]. I want a reformist not an extremist party\". In the summer of 2010 two MEPs, Arlacchi and Vincenzo Iovine, left IdV citing the lack of democracy in the party. Arlacchi, a former senator of the PDS, joined the PD, while Iovine, a former Christian Democrat, the ApI. In December two deputies, Antonio Razzi and Domenico Scilipoti, left the party in order to support Berlusconi's government.\n\nIn early 2011 IdV proposed three referendums. Thanks to its activists, the party was able to collect two million signatures among the Italian population in support of these referendums, which were concerned with the abrogation of the so-called \"legittimo impedimento\" (an Italian law which permits the Prime Minister to postpone potential trials if prosecuted by the judiciary), the abrogation of a law allowing the construction of nuclear power plants in Italy and the abrogation of a law allowing the privatisation of water management. The referendums took place in June 2011 and the \"yes\" prevailed in all three cases (see Italian referendums, 2011).\n\nOn 30 May 2011 de Magistris was elected mayor of Naples by a landslide. The IdV candidate, who had received just 27.5% of the vote in the first round (enough to beat the Democratic candidate off the second round), won a thumping 65.4% of the vote against the centre-right candidate in the run-off. This was a huge success for IdV and its main ally, the Federation of the Left, which together also gained the majority in the municipal council. On 21 May 2012 the party had another major electoral breakthrough when Leoluca Orlando was elected mayor of Palermo with 72.4% of the vote in a run-off. Both mayors would distance from IdV in a few years.\n\nIn October 2012 IdV came under pressure after some news inquiries reported obscurities in party finances, while suffering heavy losses in opinion polls due to the success of a new protest party led by comedian Beppe Grillo, the Five Star Movement (M5S). In an interview to \"Il Fatto Quotidiano\", Di Pietro declared IdV \"dead\" and, foreseeing its exclusion from Parliament after the next election, stated that the party would fight from the outside and would endorse the M5S. Grillo proposed Di Pietro as President of the Republic, but ruled out any alliance between M5S and IdV. The interview caused unrest within party ranks and led to the exit of a \"moderate\" wing led by Massimo Donadi, who was replaced as floor leader in the Chamber by Antonio Borghesi. Donadi, along with other three deputies (Nello Formisano, Giovanni Paladini and Gaetano Porcino) and one senator (Stefano Pedica), launched Rights and Freedom (DL), which later joined the Democratic Centre (CD).\n\nIn October 2012 also de Magistris quit the party and formed the Orange Movement (MA), which was joined by many IdV left-wingers. However, as soon as late December both IdV and MA were founding components of Civil Revolution (RC), a far-left coalition led by Antonio Ingroia.\n\nIn the 2013 general election RC won a mere 2.2% of the vote and IdV was thus out of Parliament for the first time in almost ten years.\n\nAfter RC's debacle, Di Pietro resigned from party president. On 13 May Di Pietro, on behalf of the party's executive, announced that the experience of RC was over for IdV and that the party would elect a new leader during a congress to be held in June. In the meantime, Leoluca Orlando, Felice Belisario, Carlo Costantini and other leading members of IdV left the party to launch the 139 Movement (139 being the number of the articles of the Italian Constitution).\n\nIn the 2014 European election, IdV received just 0.65% of the vote, losing the party's remaining representation in the European Parliament.\n\nIn the party congress, convened for 28–30 June, delegates chose the new leader, a secretary instead of a president, among five candidates: Antonio Borghesi, Matteo Castellarin, Ignazio Messina, Niccolò Rinaldi and Nicola Scalera. In the last ballot Messina was elected with 69.1% of the vote over Rinaldi, who had received the endorsements of Borghesi, Castellarin and Scalera. In October Di Pietro left the party altogether.\n\nSince 2015 the party was joined by three senators (Alessandra Bencini, Maurizio Romani and Francesco Molinari) and saw the return of a deputy (Formisano). However, in 2017 Formisano left again in order to join the Democratic and Progressive Movement (MDP), which was joined also by Di Pietro.\n\nIn December 2017 IdV was a founding member of the Popular Civic List (CP), a centrist electoral list within the centre-left coalition, along with Popular Alternative (AP), the Centrists for Europe (CpE), Solidary Democracy (DeS), the Union for Trentino (UpT), Italy is Popular (IP) and minor parties/groups.\n\nIn the 2018 general election CP obtained a mere 0.5% and no seats, thus IdV was again excluded from Parliament.\n\nWhile the party had been generally aligned with the centre-left, its members had been very diverse ideologically, ranging from the far left (i.e. Franca Rame, a former member of \"Soccorso Rosso\", and Pancho Pardi, a former activist of \"Potere Operaio\") to the right, thanks to the populist message of the party. The party includes former Communists and former \"Leghisti\", as well as former \"Missini\" and several former Christian Democrats. According to 2009 a study by Pino Pisicchio, a political scientist who was then deputy of IdV, 57.1% of the party's MPs were former Christian Democrats or members of post-Christian Democratic parties (including 11.9% from the UDEUR Populars), 9.5% were former Communists, 4.8% came from far-left parties and movements, 2.4% were former \"Missini\" and 2.4% former \"Leghisti\".\n\nThe party is a supporter of legality, law and order, the police forces, first-past-the-post voting, federalism, corporate reform, lowering the costs of politics, improving the efficiency of public services, fighting corruption, simplifying trials bureaucracy to achieve faster verdicts and regulating conflict of interest.\n\nDuring the Prodi II Cabinet IdV was one of the most centrist voices in the centre-left coalition and sometimes, despite its harsh criticism of Berlusconi, it switched sides in Parliament on some key issues. At some point, Di Pietro even proposed an electoral alliance between its party, the UDEUR Populars and the Union of Christian and Centre Democrats (UDC), while ruling out any future alliance with the far left. Also during the Berlusconi IV Cabinet, IdV supported some plans of the government, notably the introduction of fiscal federalism. However, due to its uncompromising \"anti-berlusconismo\", IdV has been at times very popular among left-wing voters, a fact that was highlighted also by the increasing number of communists in party ranks and often forms stable alliances with the parties of the far left at the local level, such as in the case of Luigi de Magistris' election as mayor of Naples or in the 2012 regional election in Sicily. The shift to the left embodied by the emergence of figures like de Magistris and Franco Grillini (honorary president of Arcigay, who joined in November 2009). was criticised by Pisicchio because, in his view, it was endangering the centrist nature of the party. However the party has continued to recruit people also on the right, such as Alessandro Cè, a social-conservative former member of Lega Nord.\n\nThe fact that IdV was a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party, formerly known as European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party (ELDR), does not mean that it is a liberal party. Notwithstanding its former European affiliation, the party has rarely been regarded as liberal in Italy, due to its \"justicialist\" and \"populist\" tendencies. In fact the party's character is that of a \"protest party\" and it opposes many policies generally supported by liberals. On the left Di Pietro is described as a right-wing populist by Fausto Bertinotti, as well as by some political commentators. According to \"Panorama\", the reason for these bitter comments by Bertinotti is that Di Pietro is very able to attract votes from the far-left electorate, as well as the right, and this could prevent a resurgence of those parties which were driven out of Parliament in the 2008 general election. During a council meeting in Rome, ELDR President Annemie Neyts-Uyttebroeck underlined that European Liberals are honored to have IdV as one of its Italian member parties as it exemplifies a political party of integrity and high quality politics. Di Pietro added that \"ELDR as the common house of European Liberals is the political home for us in terms of common convictions and a strong support for the cause of political freedoms in Italy\". During the 2010 party congress, Di Pietro remarked IdV's liberal identity and denounced what he called \"Berlusconi's false liberalism\".\n\nIn May 2012 IdV became the first Italian political party to announce publicly that it would push for marriage equality. Di Pietro said: \"Our party has been the first in Italy to follow U.S. president Barack Obama. We invite other Italian parties to support gay marriage. You don't have to be shy, you have to say yes\".\n\nThe 2001–2010 electoral results in the 10 most populated regions of Italy plus Abruzzo and Molise (the party's main strongholds) are shown in the table below. Generally speaking, the party is stronger in the South than in the North, where the protest vote is absorbed primarily by Lega Nord.\n\n"}
{"id": "59143051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59143051", "title": "James Haughton (activist)", "text": "James Haughton (activist)\n\nJames Haughton Jr. (1929-2016) was a prominent American civil rights activist, labor leader, community organizer, and social worker. Haughton is most widely known for advocating for racial equality within the construction industry.\n\nJames Haughton was born on October 1929 in Brooklyn, New York to James Haughton Sr. and Mary Miller, both immigrants from the West Indies. Haughton received a BSS from the City College of New York in 1951 and an MPA from New York University in 1960. From 1951 to 1953 Haughton fought in the Korean War as a US Army lieutenant. From 1955 to 1960, Haughton worked with gangs in Los Angeles and New York City as a youth counselor and social worker.\n\nJames Haughton married prominent anthropologist, social theorist, and feminist Elanor Leacock and remained with her until her death in 1987.\n\nIn 1960, Haughton joined the newly formed Negro American Labor Council (NALC), remaining involved with the organization until his 1962 departure. Following his involvement with NALC, Haughton served as chairman of the Labor and Industry Committee of the New York Branch of the NAACP.\n\nFrustrated with a perceived passivity within established civil rights organizations, Haughton, in 1964, established the Harlem Unemployment Center. The organization, renamed Fight Back in 1969, employed more aggressive tactics in advocating for minority hiring in the construction industry, equal employment opportunities, and minority—particularly Black and Puerto Rican— inclusion in unions.\n\nHaughton was involved in a number of other causes including the anti-war movement, anti-nuclear movement, anti-Apartheid movement, and Puerto Rico solidarity movement.\n"}
{"id": "1298705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298705", "title": "Jirga", "text": "Jirga\n\nA jirga (occasionally jarga or jargah; Pashto: ) is a traditional assembly of leaders that make decisions by consensus and according to the teachings of Pashtunwali. It predates modern-day written or fixed-laws and is conducted to settle disputes among the Pashtun people but to a lesser extent among other nearby groups that have been influenced by Pashtuns (historically known as \"Afghans\"). Its primary purpose has been to prevent tribal war. Most jirgas are conducted in Afghanistan but also among the Pashtun tribes in neighboring Pakistan, especially in Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK). In 2017, the Pakistani government was aiming to integrate jirgas into the formal justice system. \n\nAccording to The Economist, “barbarism has become synonymous with jirgas” due to their use of punishments such as gang-rape, although, others view such punishments as rare and originating from illiterate backwaters.\n\n'Jirga' itself is a well-known term of Mongolian origin. It referred historically to a large assembly of men forming a very broad circle, initially intended for laying siege around games or animals to be hunted for sport or for food. Probably, the Pashtun elders were also sitting initially in a circular formation when debating and hearing a given dispute.\n\nThe community council meaning is often found in circumstances involving a dispute between two individuals; a jirga may be part of the dispute resolution mechanism in such cases. The disputants would usually begin by finding a mediator, choosing someone such as a senior religious leader, a local notable, or a mediation specialist (a \"khan\" or \"Malik\"). In tribal Pashtun society the Maliks serve as \"de facto\" arbiters in local conflicts, interlocutors in state policy-making, tax-collectors, heads of village and town councils and delegates to provincial and national jirgas as well as to Parliament. The mediator hears from the two sides and then forms a jirga of community elders, taking care to include supporters of both sides. The jirga then considers the case and, after discussing the matter, comes to a decision about how to handle it, which the mediator then announces. The jirga's conclusion is binding.\n\nThe jirga was also used as a court in cases of criminal conduct, but this usage is being replaced by formal courts in some settled areas of Pakistan and Afghanistan, elsewhere it is still used as courts in tribal regions.\n\nThe jirga holds the prestige of a court in the tribal areas of Pakistan. Although a political agent appointed by the national government maintains law and order through the Frontier Crimes Regulation (FCR), the actual power lies in the jirga. The political agent maintains law and order in his tribal region with the help of jirgas. The jirga can award capital punishment, such as stoning to death in case of adultery, or expulsion from the community.\n\nThe Sindh High Court imposed a ban on the holding of jirgas in April 2004 because of the sometimes inhumane sentences awarded to people, especially women and men who marry of their own free will. The ban, however, has been ignored.\n\nIn the recent military operations against al Qaeda and the Taliban in Pakistan's restive southern tribal agencies bordering Afghanistan, jirgas played a key role of moderator between the government and the militants. The tradition of jirga has also been adopted by Muslims in the Kashmir valley of Indian-administered Kashmir.\n\nAn all-female jirga Khwaindo jirga (\"sister's council\") was held in Pakistan, and had 25 members. It was headed by Tabassum Adnan which helped 11 women get justice as of 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "24926293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24926293", "title": "John D. Hamaker", "text": "John D. Hamaker\n\nJohn D. Hamaker (1914–1994), was an American mechanical engineer, ecologist, agronomist and science writer in the fields of soil regeneration, rock dusting, mineral cycles, climate cycles and glaciology.\n\nJohn Hamaker was born in St. Louis, Missouri, United States and graduated from Purdue University in Mechanical Engineering. Concerned for the environment, he became a student of ecology and agriculture and was influenced by books such as \"Bread From Stones\", which showed plants grow better in soils generated by mimicking natural soil-forming processes that take millennia, such as the advance and retreat of glaciers scouring over the Earth's crust, or rock weathering of volcanic lava. In the 1960s, Hamaker cultivated a strong interest in soil and climate issues, and began publishing articles about how the health of an individual, society and planetary ecology only thrive as an integrated interdependent whole. For 30 years, he wrote and campaigned for organic agriculture based on soil remineralization, and was the first to call for the remineralization of the Earth to forestall the next glacial period within the current ice age cycle. Hamaker produced a notable book \"The Survival Of Civilization\" in 1982, republished in 2002 by Remineralize The Earth. \n\nIn the 1970s, a series of scientific conferences concluded that the world's climate is cooling. Books such as \"The Cooling\", \"The Weather Conspiracy\", \"The Weather Machine & The Threat Of Ice\", \"Climates Of Hunger\", \"Ice Ages\" and \"Climate: Present, Past & Future\", warned of a coming ice age within decades. In 1975, Newsweek ran an article entitled \"The Cooling World\" that foretold the decimation of agricultural productivity based on a dramatic decrease in the Earth's temperature. and the New York Times published the article \"Scientists ask why world is changing; Major cooling may be ahead\". In parallel, books such as \"A Blueprint for Survival\", \"The Limits To Growth\", and \"The Population Bomb\", warned of multiple social, economic, ecological and population crises. At the same time, Hamaker continued to generate articles and bulletins as well as campaign, on what was by now his main pre-occupation, the remineralization of the world's soils.\n\nAccording to his writings, in 1976, Hamaker spread rock dust on part of his in Michigan. The following year, his corn produced 65 bushels per acre, compared to yields of under 25 from other local farms, and also tested higher in many minerals. He calculated that remineralizing the soil with river, seashore, mountain and glacial rock dust, would enable American agriculture to produce four times as much food or the same amount with a 25% reduction in cost, without the need for pesticides or chemical fertilizers.\n\nIn 1982, he produced with Californian ecologist Donald A. Weaver \"The Survival Of Civilization: Carbon Dioxide, Investment Money, Population – Three Problems Threatening Our Existence\", which was re-published by Remineralize The Earth in 2002 and in 2006 by SoilandHealth.org. Annotations and supporting evidence were provided by Weaver. The book which initially sold 14,000 copies, concerned the threat of an imminent ice age, remineralizing the world's soils on a local and global scale and reforesting the planet to return atmospheric carbon dioxide to a normal interglacial level near 280 ppm, to help slow the glacial advance.\n\nThe treatise was a synthesis of Hamaker's thinking that emerged from his studies and research in several disciplines including soil science and paleoclimatology. His message, dubbed the \"Hamaker Thesis\", was that due to modern agricultural and agro-forestry practices, the soils were running out of minerals, causing the dying and burning of forests worldwide and nutrient deficiencies in food. He offered soil remineralization as a solution, advocating regeneration of soil and forests with rock dusts as an economic and ecologically sustainable alternative to chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Hamaker regarded this as one of the most powerful ideas in human history. The book and its message was well received by soil and nutritional scientists and regarded as a blueprint for restoring the planet's ecological integrity by the worldwide remineralization movement.\n\nEndorsing the book, Buckminster Fuller, inventor of the geodesic dome, author of the book \"Critical Path\" and Professor Emeritus at the University of Pennsylvania, wrote in a publicized letter to Donald Weaver in 1983: \"I have received and read John Hamaker’s \"The Survival of Civilization\". Well done. Completely convincing... I will tell all those inquiring of me about matters relevant to our survival that they had best read Hamaker's book.\" Reviewing the book, writer Bertram Cohen expressed concern that a global climate shift would make the temperate zone part of the sub-arctic zone and deprive humanity of its food supply. Cohen also pointed out that \"Dr Herbert Shelton, both in his books and in Hygienic Review, emphasised the importance of soil remineralization in creating a Hygienic Agriculture.\" \n\nIn support of the book, The Earth Renewal Society presented a statement to a Congressional hearing in Chicago in March 1984.\n\nHamaker believed remineralizing the world's soil with rock dust, a quarrying by-product, could revitalise barren soil and reverse climate change. Rock dust nourished soil micro-organisms whose protoplasm is the basis of all living things. When mixed with compost, the dust created rich, deep soils which could produce high growth vegetation free from pests and predators, at an accelerated rate. The idea was later confirmed by agricultural scientists such as Arden Andersen, who showed how high sugar and mineral levels in soil gave immunity to soil bacteria, stopping insect and fungal attacks. For Hamaker and Andersen, minerals were the primal food for micro-organisms which provided life and health for the soil.\n\nHamaker invented an autogenous rock grinder, designed to grind rock upon rock with minimal wear of metal parts, and a macro version, both for creating rock dust. The full design for the rock grinder was described in \"The Survival Of Civilization\" and Donald Weaver's \"To Love And Regenerate The Earth\". On 19 October 1984, China's Research Institute of Forests accepted a copy of Hamaker's rock grinder patent papers, since at the time, China was taking the lead in reforestation programs.\n\nThe Earth's soil is demineralized during every interglacial period, the short 10,000-year warm period between every 90,000-year glacial period which is within the current Ice Age or Quaternary Period encompassing the Pleistocene and Holocene, or current interglacial. This causes a decline in the world's forests and other vegetation which are carbon dioxide sinks, and so more carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide levels in Earth's atmosphere rose throughout the 20th century and continue to do so. Excessive heat from the sun is trapped by CO and other greenhouse gases, affecting global climate. Hamaker explained the 100,000-year cycle of major ice ages by postulating that the greenhouse effect takes place mainly in the tropics, which receives the most sun, instead of in polar regions.\n\nWhen temperature differences between the poles and the tropics increase, a cycle of heavy wind, hurricanes, storms and tornadoes occurs. More evaporated moisture is carried to higher latitudes where it is deposited in ice and snow, the eventual result being glaciation and another ice age. Record snow in the Northern hemisphere and the shortening of the growing season is a prevailing pattern. As glaciers advance and recede during each ice age, they grind down rocks in their path. The mineral-rich dust is distributed over the Earth's surface, by powerful wind and water systems, remineralizing soils and enlivening plant life.\n\nHamaker believed that within as little as a decade, the growing season would decrease leading to mass starvation in rich and poor nations alike. He therefore proposed the remineralization of the world's soils and reforesting the land, to propagate carbon sinks, thereby absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and so contributing to general climatic stability. By assuming the task of remineralizing the Earth's soils, just like glaciers do during an ice age, remineralization would create fertile soils – the basis for the re-creation of stable ecosystems.\n\nHamaker believed in a distinct and imminent threat of a new glacial period, following a long series of glaciations in the geological and glacial-interglacial cycle timeframe. He felt that remineralizing the world's soils and reforesting the land could generate a climax geosystem (as opposed to a pioneer one), through mass reforestation. This would solve the climate crisis as well as the food crisis, by assisting the planet's ability to geophysiologically self-regulate, and potentially, postpone the next glaciation indefinitely.\n\nHamaker also believed that increased tectonic activity occurring with snow and ice buildup, could heat up tropical oceans through sea floor volcanism, and in addition to the intensified greenhouse effect, be a prime cause of the El Nino phenomenon.\n\nIn 1983, Nicholas Shackleton and other UK scientists published an article in \"Nature\" which stated that the last glacial period began when the in the atmosphere reached about 290ppm, and that the world was already ahead of that figure at a critical 343-345 ppm. Hamaker explained the significance of Shackleton's findings in Acres USA: \" has its primary importance as the initiator of glaciation. Once an extensive ice field is established, its cooling effect maintains the temperature differential which keeps glaciation going. Variations in the amount of simply cause variations in the world albedo, but they do not stop or start glaciation. The world is committed to glaciation when the ice fields alone reflect enough sunlight to ensure cooling.\" \n\nOn 3 June 1984, Hamaker appeared on Ted Turner's Atlanta Superstation declaring that increased high-latitude albedo is what initiates glacial advances/retreats. He was citing Sir George Simpson's 1938 analysis on ice ages and later commentary by Richard Somerville and Lorraine Remer of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in their article in the Journal of Geophysical Research: \"It's that cloud that you have to worry about because it's reflecting 80% of the sun's energy back into space and it's never becoming effective in warming the Earth. So we're getting cooling as the result of the carbon dioxide buildup.\" Around this time, Scientific American summarized: \"They (Somerville & Remer) suggest the global warming might be lessened by concurrent changes in the properties of clouds... Denser clouds will reflect a larger proportion of incoming solar radiation; the reduction in the energy reaching the surface will counteract the greenhouse effect.\" \n\nAlso in 1984, Robert Beckman produced \"The Downwave\" citing the studies of Dr. Raymond Wheeler and its climate-societal implications.\n\nIn 2007, climatologist George Kukla, expressed support for the belief in an imminent ice-age.\n\n\n\nJohn D. Hamaker's work inspired a growing movement of people to become involved in remineralization, including permaculturists, organic farmers, biodynamic farmers, gardeners, vegetarians, environmentalists, scientists, climatologists, journalists, religious groups, political groups, community organizations and ordinary citizens.\n\nIn the 1980s, Hamaker became a catalyst for the formation of Remineralize The Earth (RTE), set up by Joanna Campe, its President and Executive Director who produced the Soil Remineralization Newsletter in the 1980s and Remineralize the Earth magazine in the 1990s, before the non-profit organization's incorporation in 1994.\n\nRTE began promoting the regeneration of soils and forests worldwide with finely ground rock dust as a sustainable alternative to chemical fertilizers and pesticides. As well as recycling and returning organic matter to the soil, the organization asserted that returning all of the mineral nutrients which create fertile soils and healthy crops and forests, was equally important. For RTE, remineralization was essential to restoring ecological balance and stabilizing the climate.\n\nIn 1994, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), U.S. Bureau of Mines, National Stone Association and National Aggregates Association co-sponsored a symposium \"Soil Remineralization and Sustainable Agriculture\" at USDA headquarters in Washington DC.\n\nIn 1995, Campe coordinated a two-year research project with the University of Massachusetts Amherst into remineralization.\n\nIn Campe's letter to Newsweek Magazine in October 2006, she warned that global warming could trigger an ice age and that soil remineralization and reforestation were the solutions. In the same period, major magazines expressed concern of a coming ice age including The Atlantic Monthly, \"National Geographic\", Discover Magazine, The Spectator and BBC Focus Magazine. Institutes in Northern Europe and the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute shared the concern.\n\nCampe was invited by the U.S. State Department to speak at the Washington International Renewable Energy Conference 2008.\n\nIn 2009, the Global Coral Reef Alliance invited RTE to produce a chapter for the DVD ROM book \"The Green Disk: New Technologies for A New World\", being distributed to all U.N. delegates at the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP15) in Copenhagen during December 2009.\n\nRTE's \"Real Food Campaign\", directed by Dan Kittredge, is a project promoting nutrient rich food and creating a new standard for food quality. Award-winning ecological designer, Dr. John Todd, of Ocean Arks International directs RTE's Agroforestry Project in Costa Rica, a project intercropping commercial hardwoods, fruit trees and jatropha, which produces a sustainable biofuel while regenerating the soil.\n\nInspired by Hamaker, in the 1990s, Cameron and Moira Thomson set up the charitable trust Sustainable Ecological Earth Regeneration (SEER) in Scotland, to develop the ideas which Hamaker founded.\n\nIn Paul Kelbie's article \"Remineralization Might Save Us From Global Warming\", in The Independent, he wrote that since the last ice age, three million years ago, the Earth has gone through 25 glaciations, each lasting about 90,000 years, and that we are now 10,800 years into an interglacial – a hiatus between ice–ages. Previous interglacials averaged 10 to 12,000 years in duration, with the most significant environmental change being interglacial soil demineralization and retrogressive vegetational succession. Since this meant modern soils were relatively barren, leading to the adoption of imbalanced and artificial fertilisers, it was SEER's belief that by \"By spreading the dust, we are doing in minutes what the earth takes thousands of years to do – putting essential minerals in the rocks back into the earth.\" SEER won funding from the Scottish Executive to conduct the UK's first official rock dust trials, and maintained that rock dust could fight climate change because calcium and magnesium in the dust converts carbon in the air into carbonates, in addition to enhanced biosequestration by soil organisms and vegetation. The theory captured the attention of NASA who were researching the growing of plants on other planets.\n\nFor SEER, as well as producing high yields, and re-balancing the Earth's ecology and geophysiology, rock dusting also brought nutritional benefits due to the enrichment of crops, and so benefits to human health.\n\nBut the SEER centre has been frustrated in their hopes to provide scientific proof of their claims for higher yields and enriched crops, through the use of rock dust. Their 3-year flagship research programme with Glasgow University (2009) found that rock dust made no difference to crop yield or nutrient-content in the test conditions.\n\nIn 2002, 20 years after Hamaker's book was published, Donald Weaver produced \"To Love And Regenerate The Earth\", an update on Hamaker's book, which was published by Remineralize The Earth and re-published in 2006 by Soiland Health.org. The new book clarified ideas raised in the original book whilst providing new evidence from the 1990s and 2000s to show the direction of climate and environmental change.\n\nWeaver considered Hamaker a broad synthesist in the fields of ecology and climate, who recognized how the forests and the trees integrated with the whole biological-tectonic-climatic Earth system. For Weaver and Hamaker, a new glacial period, one in a long series of glacial periods, was due in the geological and glacial-interglacial cycle timeframe. Weaver explained that Hamaker was convinced that humanity was rushing into the next glacial period due to carbon dioxide build-up after the normal interglacial soil demineralization and retrogressive vegetational succession, as summarized by Johannes Iversen and Svend Andersen, State Geologists from Denmark in the book \"The Holocene\" by Neil Roberts.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, author, and Harvard clinical psychologist, Dr. Larry Ephron, set up the U.S. based Institute For A Future and wrote \"The End: The Coming Ice Age & How We Can Stop It\", which examined the theory and themes raised in Hamaker's book citing climatologist Reid Bryson, of the University of Wisconsin: \"Breakthrought never come from within the establishment.\"\n\nThe book specifically examined man's influence on nature and climate change. Topics covered included astrophysics, climatology, geology, glaciology, microbiology, paleobotany, paleontology, palynology, plate tectonics, soil remineralization, seismology, soil science, solar physics and human survival.\n\nEphron showed how climatologists such as John Gribbin and Stephen Schneider who recognized the connection between global warming and the buildup of snow and ice, saw ice buildup only as a side effect of continued overall warming, rather than linking increase, global warming, ice buildup, glaciation and ice ages, together. An exception was Pierre Lehman, a Swiss atmospheric physicist who noted the important link between soil and climate. NASA climatologist James Hansen was also noted as saying \"it is not certain whether warming will cause the ice sheets to shrink or grow. For example, if the ocean warms but the air above the ice sheets remains below freezing, the effect could be increased snowfall, net ice sheet growth.\"\n\nIn the book, Dave Foreman, Founder of Earth First! wrote: \"An ice age is coming, and I welcome it as a much needed cleansing. I see no possible solution to our ruination of Earth except for a drastic reduction of the human population.\" Also quoted is S. W. Matthews, Assistant Editor, \"National Geographic\": \"The ice age, which has really not left the planet for two million years, is reasserting itself. The warm time... is over. The next great return of ice has begun.\" and Paul Gersper, Professor of Soil Science, University of California: \"The actions recommended here are urgently needed to avoid global disaster.\"\n\nA film was made of the book called \"Stopping The Ice Age\" in 1988, which Ephron co-produced and directed. Like the book, it carried endorsements from various scientists and universities including Kenneth Watt, Professor of Environmental Studies, University of California: \"An astonishing service for humanity\" and recording artist, Sting: \"Everybody has to see this\". Ephron's writing on the ice age threat also appeared in \"The Globe and Mail\", the \"Los Angeles Weekly\" and Acres USA.\n\nIn the 1980s, a contemporary of Hamaker, Alden Bryant, founded a campaign organization called Earth Regeneration Society with former IBM engineer Fred Wood, Barbara Logan and others, advocating global soil remineralization, reforestation, carbon dioxide reduction and a new energy movement. After attending many international conferences on climate issues, Bryant set up the New Energy Movement organization.\n\nSeveral books citing remineralization have been published including \"The Tree War: How to Save the Earth and Bring Together the Nations\", \"The Enlivened Rock Powders\", \"The Secrets of the Soil\", \"Empty Harvest\" and \"The Secret Life Of Plants\".\n\nIn the late 1980s, Peter von Fragstein of the University of Kassel, Germany, began researching remineralization with many different rock types as a slow-release fertilizer and to deter insects.\n\nHamaker's research also complemented work by Bill Mollison on permaculture, John Jeavons and Masanobu Fukuoka on sustainable organiculture, Emilia Hazelip on synergistic agriculture and Rudolf Steiner on biodynamic farming. It further brought interest from science writer Philip Callaghan who developed the rock dusting theme in his work on paramagnetism, a field related to radionics, biophotonics, bio-energetics, bio-resonance, Schumann waves, magnetometeorology and subtle energy.\n\nIn the 1990s, the Men of the Trees organization in Australia conducted remineralization trials on many species of trees in Australia with significant results, such as five times the growth of tree seedlings of one variety of eucalyptus, compared to the untreated controls.\n\nBarry Lynes wrote \"Climate Crime\" in 1985 chronicling the case for global cooling, and Robert Felix, author of \"Not by Fire But By Ice\" echoed concerns about re-glaciation, expressed by Hamaker and Bryant, which he documented at Ice Age Now. \n\nIn the 2000s, NCAR scientist Dr. Lee Klinger began to investigate the relationship between rock dust and plant growth to save dying trees, and NASA began to experiment with lunar soil, plant growth and hydrophonics.\n\nIn 2001, Alanna Moore wrote the book \"Stone Age Farming: Eco-Agriculture for the 21st Century\" which combined remineralization with permaculture for a new eco-agricultural paradigm.\n\nIn 2005, Allan Yeomans documented in \"Priority One\", the potential to bring atmospheric carbon to pre-industrial levels within 5 years, through remineralization of the world's agricultural lands. For Yeoman, as well as reducing global levels to safe levels, it would revitalize the soil and biological life on the planet, and increase human nutrition and health levels.\n\nIn 2006, British author, Graham Harvey, produced the book \"We Want Real Food\" which documented the results of remineralization, in terms of soil health and nutritional values in food, and documented major declines in the mineral content of crops.\n\nIn 2007, the research organization Rocks for Crops was initiated by soil scientist, Jairo Restrepo Rivera of the University of Pelotas, Río Grande del Sur (Brazil), who translated \"Bread From Stones\" into Spanish and gave conferences on remineralization in Colombia, Brazil and Mexico; Peter Von Straaten from the University of Guelph (Canada); and Suzi Teodoro from the University of Brasilia (Brazil).\n\nThe group confirmed that a branch of geology called agrogeology, originating at the University of Guelph, was evolving, since Von Straaten published the book \"Agrogeology: The Use of Rocks for Crops\" and Rivera produced the book and video, \"Manual Práctico ABC de la Agricultura Orgánica y Harina de Rocas\", which described how to regenerate overcultivated soils with rock dust. The science was developing in Germany, Canada and USA, and being researched in Brazil, Tanzania and the Canary Islands. Other university researchers included professors William Fyfe and Ward Chesworth.\n\nThe science of agrogeology is the study of natural geological materials suitable for restoring soils as an alternative to chemical fertilizers, particularly for worn out tropical soils. Due to intense tropical rainfall, chemical fertilizers are washed away from laterite soils within weeks, and cannot be stored by the soils, are thus especially harmful to the groundwater. Rock fertilizers supply nutrients over longer periods to cultivated plants. When the rocks break down, new minerals are made available to the soil micro-organisms and whole soil-food web. From the soil chemist's perspective, the process improves the ion-exchange capacity of soils while forming new clay minerals.\n\nIn November 2009, a Rocks for Crops conference was held in Brasilia with 170 participants to discuss the new science. Further conferences were held in Rio de Janeiro and in Mexico, in December 2009 for the study and promotion of remineralization worldwide.\n\nHamaker conducted the groundwork for a mass movement of people concerned about the health of the world's soils, sustainable forests, climate change and improved nutrition from food. His proposal, rock dusting, known to enhance plant growth by nourishing biological and chemical aspects of the rhizosphere, resulted in soil regeneration to boost global plant cover. This assisted Earth's self-regulation and offered a more natural geoengineering solution to the climate crisis not dependent on high technology, or on-going climate manipulation by man. Some scientists have postulated that technological solutions may exist to assist the remineralization process, such as converting carbon dioxide into organic carbon to be mineralized as sediment before being weathered to soil.\n\nHamaker's main book was \"The Survival Of Civilization\" (1983, 2002). He also produced various articles and publications from the 1960s to the 1990s. His ideas were further elucidated by Donald A. Weaver in his book \"To Love & Regenerate The Earth\" (2002), and in articles for publications including \"Living Nutrition\" magazine, resulting in the publication of the e-book \"Regenerate the Earth!: Nature's Call to Remineralize Our Soil, Re-Green Our Land, Rescue Our Climate and Restore Our Health\" by Vibrance!, in 2001. Weaver remains involved in education campaigns to alert humanity to the climate crisis and foundational rock dust solution.\n\nHamaker's hypothesis is criticised because fossil fuel energy is potentially required to create and distribute rock dust, and this generates when derived from fossil fuel, however, rock dust is predominantly a byproduct of the existing aggregate and quarrying industries Future rock dust production for broad-scale soil remineralization can be powered by renewable sources, such as wind energy and bio-fuels grown on remineralized soils.\n\nSince land is naturally fertilized in glacial periods, remineralizing the Earth would emulate the glaciation process, allowing the reversal of what Hamaker and Weaver referred to as the \"interglacial soil demineralization and retrogressive vegetational succession\" (decline in the vegetative index). They reasoned that this would indefinitely sustain the interglacial ecosystem and climate, or at least slow down the speed of re-glaciation. However, scientists such as Mukul Sharmar, Charles A. Perry, Yuk Yung, Nigel Calder, Henrik Svensmark, Eigil Friis-Christensen, Knud Lassen and Alexander Chizhevsky who have cited variations in the sunspot cycle as the dominant mechanism in climate cycles on Earth, not vegetation, have yet to incorporate the demineralization dimension.\n\nMore than a mini ice age in 2013-2041, Hamaker's immediate concern was the shortening of the growing season from the coming glacial period, which he believed could be forestalled through rock dusting, resulting in more abundant yields at harvest. He believed the coming glacial period would preceded by an interglacial-to-glacial transition phase already underway since the 1970s, and strongly advocated an intensive global co-operative soil remineralization effort to maintain the quantity of food while improving its quality. To achieve this, he recommended simultaneous remineralization of dying forests and soils, also needed to grow bio-fuels, as part of a goal to return excessive carbon dioxide to stable interglacial levels of 280 ppm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19045573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19045573", "title": "Languages of Catalonia", "text": "Languages of Catalonia\n\nThere are four languages with official status in Catalonia (an autonomous community of Spain): Catalan; Spanish- which is official throughout Spain; Aranese, a dialect of Occitan spoken in the Aran Valley; and Catalan Sign Language. Many other languages are spoken in Catalonia as a result of recent immigration from all over the world.\n\nCatalan has enjoyed special status since the approval of the Statute of Autonomy of 1979 which declares it to be the language \"proper to Catalonia\". Spanish had been the only official language for most of the period between the 18th century and 1975.\n\nAccording to a 2008 survey, in everyday use, 45.9% of the population usually spoke Spanish, while 35.6% usually employed Catalan, and 12% of the population used either language habitually.\n\nOver 45% of respondents used Spanish to address their parents (versus 36% who choose Catalan). This is attributed to extensive migration from other areas in Spain during the second half of the 20th century, as a consequence of which many Catalans have one or both parents born outside Catalonia. However, a majority (52.6%) used Catalan with their children (compared to 42.3% for Spanish). This can be attributed to some Spanish-speaking citizens shifting from their native language to Catalan at home.\n\nOutside the family, 48.6% of the population indicated that they addressed strangers exclusively or preferentially in Catalan, while the proportion of those who used Spanish was 41.7%, and 8.6% claimed to use both equally.\n\nThe main cause of Spanish and Catalan social bilingualism in modern Catalonia was large-scale migration from the rest of Spain during the 20th century, as Catalonia started a significant industrialization which demanded an increased workforce from elsewhere. Spanish has historically been spoken among a minority of civil servants born in other regions in Spain and among segments of the wealthiest bourgeoisie. Spanish has also been spoken as a second language by most Catalans, as it has been the only official language over long periods since the eighteenth century.\n\nIt has been calculated that the total population of Catalonia with no migration would have grown from 2 million people in 1900 to just 2.4 million in 1980, 39% of the real population of 6.1 million for that date, which was over 7.5 million in 2016. As a consequence, there exists a somewhat different identity for those whose native language is Catalan and those whose native language is Spanish, though it has been increasingly difficult to delineate the two groups; furthermore, there is a small but growing number of Catalans who consider both to be their mother tongue. According to anthropologist Kathryn Woolard, who has studied these identities, Catalans tend to classify anyone as either \"castellà\" (that is, having Spanish as their native language) or \"català\" (that is, having Catalan as their native language).\nThe claim that the population would have only increased 20% from 1900 to 1980 is disputable since the population of Spain as a whole doubled from 18 to 37 million even allowing for high levels of emigration from the province to the Western Hemisphere and Europe.\n\nAccording to the linguistic census elaborated by the Government of Catalonia corresponding to 2008, 45.92% of citizens over 15 years old declared Spanish as their [only] habitual language of use, versus 35.64% for Catalan, with 11.95% of complete bilinguals; a larger number claims Catalan as \"their own language\" (37.25% Catalan compared to 46.53% Spanish and 8.81% bilinguals).\n\nLastly, since the Statute of Autonomy of 1979, Aranese—a Gascon Occitan dialect—has been official and subject to special protection in the Aran Valley. This small area of 7,000 inhabitants was the only place where Occitan (spoken mainly in France and some Italian valleys) received full official status. However, on 9 August 2006, when the new Statute came into force, Aranese became official throughout Catalonia.\n\nAccording to the government of Catalonia, Spanish, locally known as Castilian, is currently the most spoken language in Catalonia (45.9% daily users of Spanish vs. 35.6% daily users of Catalan vs. 11% daily users of both Spanish and Catalan) and especially in the Barcelona metropolitan area, as well as native language and usual language of many Catalan citizens. This language is widely prevalent in the press, cinema and in daily life.\n\nSpanish is the language that Catalan citizens can read and write the most, due to the fact that until the 1980s it was the only language used in school and in all official communications.\n\nThe Spanish language developed from Vulgar Latin in the North of the Iberian Peninsula, expanding quickly to the South. It has lexical influences from Arabic and possible substrate influences from Basque and (to a lesser extent) Celtiberian. It has been the only official language in Spain for most periods since the eighteenth century.\n\nAccording to the official government of Catalonia, Catalan is the second most spoken language of the region, after Spanish (over 35% of Catalans use exclusively Catalan as their first language, while 11% of Catalans use equally both Catalan and Spanish). It is the most spoken language in many comarques of Catalonia, with the exception of the Barcelona metropolitan area (Barcelonès plus surrounding comarques) and Camp de Tarragona. Catalan is a compulsory subject in schools and enjoys equals rights with Spanish throughout Catalonia.\n\nSince the death of Franco and the approval of a new democratic Constitution in Spain, Catalan has experienced a new revival in its usage, first, due to the liberalisation and devolution of the Catalan linguistic and cultural institutions, and second, to their promotion. However, some political activists claim that Catalan-speaking people continue suffering some types of discrimination, as explained in the European Parliament on January 29, 2014. \n\nCatalan, a Romance language, is regarded by some Iberian linguists as belonging to the Iberian Romance sub-family (which also includes Spanish, Portuguese, Galician, and Aragonese), while others (especially Occitanists) classify it within the Gallo-Romance sub-family (which includes French, Occitan and Gallo-Italian) languages. It shares attributes with both linguistic groups.\n\nAccording to the 2001 Linguistic Census, about 5,900,000 people in Catalonia (nearly 95% of the population) understand the Catalan language. The percentage of people aged two and older who can speak, read and write Catalan is as follows:\nAs a result of the ongoing linguistic policies favouring Catalan, implemented in various degrees by the autonomous government during the last 20 years, knowledge of Catalan has advanced significantly in all these areas, with the ability to write it having experienced the most pronounced increase, from 31.6% of the population in 1986 to 49.8% in 2001.\n\nBy age groups, those between 10 and 29 have the highest level of Catalan-language literacy (e.g., 98.2% aged 10–14 understand it, and 85.2% can write it); this is attributed to these individuals having received their education in Catalan.\n\nGeographically, Catalan is understood in northwest Catalonia (High Pyrenees, Aran Valley), at 97.4%, followed by south and western Catalonia, whereas Barcelona's metropolitan area sees the lowest knowledge, at 93.8%. The situation is analogous for written-language skills, with central Catalonia scoring the highest percentages (61.4%), and Barcelona the lowest (46.4%).\n\nBarcelona is one of the main centres of the Spanish publishing industry for both Spanish-language and Catalan-language publishing.\n\nAccording to the 2001 Aranese Linguistic Census, knowledge of Aranese in the Occitan-speaking territory of Aran is as follows:\n\nCompared to previous data from 1996, the number of those able to understand Aranese has declined slightly (90.5% in 1996), while at the same time there has been a marginal increase in the number of those able to write it (24.97% in 1996).\n\nBy age groups, the largest percentage of those with knowledge of Aranese is in the 15-19 and 65-69 groups (both above 96%), while those aged 30–34 score lowest (just over 80%). Literacy is higher in the 10-19 group with over 88% declaring themselves able to read, and 76% able to write Aranese. Those over 80 are the least literate, with only about 1.5% of them being able to write the language.\n\nIn everyday use, according to 2008 data, Spanish is the main language in the Aran valley, habitually spoken by 38% of the population, then followed by Aranese, spoken by 23.4% of the population. In Aran, Catalan is the third language, habitually spoken by 16% of the population.\n\nAccording to Ethnologue, about 18,000 deaf Catalans use Catalan Sign Language (LSC, \"Llengua de signes catalana\"). Since, like other deaf sign languages, LSC has no generally used written form, there is no literacy data.\n\nAs a part of the intense immigration process which Spain in general and Catalonia in particular have experienced over the last decade, there is a large number of immigrant languages spoken in various cultural communities in Catalonia, of which (Maghrebi) Arabic and Urdu are the most common if Spanish-speaking migrants are not taken into account.\n\nFrom all four Provinces of Catalonia, the largest number of habitual foreign language speakers are located in Girona.\n\nUnder the Franco dictatorship Catalan was, until the 1970s, excluded from the state education system and all other official and governmental use, including the prohibition of baptizing children with certain Catalan names. Rural-urban migration originating in other parts of Spain reduced the social use of the language in urban areas. Lately, a similar sociolinguistic phenomenon has occurred with foreign immigration. In an attempt to reverse this, the re-established self-government institutions of Catalonia embarked on a long term language policy to increase the use of Catalan and has, since 1983, enforced laws which attempt to protect, and extend, the use of Catalan. Some groups consider these efforts a way to discourage the use of Spanish, while some other, including the Catalan government and the European Union consider the policies not only respectful, but also an example which \"should be disseminated throughout the Union\".\n\nToday, Catalan is the language of the Catalan autonomous government and the other public institutions that fall under its jurisdiction. Following Catalan Government rules, businesses are required to display all information (e.g. menus, posters) in Catalan under penalty of legal fines; following Spanish Government rules, there's the same obligation to display this information in Spanish; there is no obligation to display this information in Aranese, although there is no restriction on doing so in these or other languages. The use of fines was introduced in a 1997 linguistic law that aims to increase the use of Catalan. According to the law, both Catalan and Spanish – being official languages – can be used by the citizens without prejudice in all public and private activities even though the Generalitat usually uses only Catalan in its communications and notifications addressed to the general population. The citizens can also receive information from the Generalitat in Spanish if they so request. The various media belonging to Catalan government public broadcasting are monolingual in Catalan. However, except for a few hours in Catalan on La 2 and on some radio station, all the media belonging to the Spanish government are Spanish monolingual in Catalonia, as in the rest of Spain. \nThe language policy favouring Catalan consistently implemented by the successive governments ruling the regional government of Catalonia since the 1980s has become increasingly contentious and controversial during the 2000s, especially in public education.\n\nIn this context, Catalan was the only language of instruction between 1979 and 2012. Thus, pupils were immersed in Catalan except for three hours per week of Spanish medium instruction. However, the most recent Spanish Education Law and some judicial sentences aim at increasing the time of instruction in Spanish for other subjects, if only one child per class asks it, even if the other families don't agree, because of complaints that current policies hinder the right to an education in Spanish.\n\nSome political parties and civic organizations denounce this situation in which a co-official language like Spanish is barred from public education, claiming that this is a severe breach of civic rights and against the spirit of free circulation of people within Spain. In September 2008 a demonstration was held in Barcelona to support full coexistence of both languages without linguistic discrimination of either. In June 2012 the Supreme Court of Spain ruled that schools must also use Spanish as a medium of instruction, if parents wish it, and cannot force Catalan-language education on the entire population, citing the disadvantage of the inability to be educated in the national language and the necessity of maintaining the ability for citizens to move from one part of Spain to another without learning the local language.\n\nPro-Catalan language activists claim that some activities cannot be done in Catalan, because almost 500 different rules are forbidding the use of any language except Spanish or because delegations of the Spanish Government do not accept the use of documents written in Catalan, though it is a co-official language in Catalonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "4639439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4639439", "title": "Law and Inequality", "text": "Law and Inequality\n\nLaw & Inequality: A Journal of Theory and Practice, is a biannual peer-reviewed law journal edited by law students at University of Minnesota Law School. It was established in 1981 to examine the social impact of law on disadvantaged people.\n\nIn 2016, the journal launched its online companion site, \"Sua Sponte\".\n\nThe journal has been cited by federal and state courts, including:\n\nThe journal is ranked first in the \"Family Law\" and \"Immigration Law\" subcategories on the Washington and Lee University law journal rankings for scholarly impact; third in the \"Civil Rights\" and \"Minority and \"Race and Ethnic Issues\" subcategories; and in the top ten for \"Criminal Law and Procedure\" and \"Gender, Women and Sexuality\" subcategories.\n\n"}
{"id": "19968188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19968188", "title": "List of LGBT political parties", "text": "List of LGBT political parties\n\nThis is a list of political parties that were created to primarily represent the interests of the LGBT population in the nation in which each political party was registered.\n\n"}
{"id": "2850959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2850959", "title": "Makhzen", "text": "Makhzen\n\nMakhzen (Arabic: , Berber: \"Lmexzen\") is the governing institution in Morocco and in pre-1957 Tunisia, centered on the king and consisting of royal notables, top-ranking military personnel, landowners, security service bosses, civil servants and other well-connected members of the establishment. The term \"Makhzen\" is also popularly used in Morocco as a word meaning \"State\" or \"Government\".\n\nThe word \"makhzen\" () literally means \"warehouse\" in Maghrebi Arabic (from \"khazana\" \"to store up\"), where the king's civil servants used to receive their wages; but this usage of the word became in Moroccan Arabic synonymous with the elite. It is likely a metonymy related to taxes, which the \"makhzen\" used to collect; the term may also refer to the state, but this usage is increasingly rare and is primarily used by the older generation. Recently, the term is also being used to describe the police.\n\nThe word has also been adopted into Spanish, Portuguese with a different meaning, as \"almacén\" and \"armazém\" (with addition of the Arabic definite article), and into French and Italian as \"magasin\" (meaning \"store\") and \"magazzino\". It came into the English language from Middle French as \"magazine\", originally referring to a storehouse for ammunition and later to publications. With the \"store\" meaning, it was also adopted from French into Russian as \"\".\n\nIn the Berber culture of Morocco, the Berber equivalent of \"mekhzen\" (warehouse) would be \"agadir\". Berber tribes also considered the \"agadir\" (warehouse of the tribe's crops and valuables) as a powerhouse guarded and managed through a legal system. The Arabic word \"makhzen\" is probably a translation of the original Berber word \"agadir\".\n\nThe Makhzen is a very ancient notion in Morocco, it roughly coincides with the notion of the feudal state predating the French protectorate in Morocco. \"Bilād al-makhzen\" (the land of the makhzen) was the term used to describe the areas under central government authority, while those areas still run by tribal authority were known as \"bilād as-siba\" (the land of dissidence). Hubert Lyautey, who served as resident-general of Morocco from 1912 until 1925 during the era of the protectorate, was a fervent proponent of indirect colonisation, especially in Berber-speaking areas. Lyautey maintained the role of the Makhzen and even enhanced it by giving important roles to local notables such as Thami El Glaoui. Local notables acted as a relay between the population and the French authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "44437148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44437148", "title": "Ministry of Public Health and Hygiene (Mali)", "text": "Ministry of Public Health and Hygiene (Mali)\n\nThe Ministry of Public Health and Hygiene () is the ministry of health of Mali. It has its headquarters in the capital city Bamako.\n\n, the Minister of Health and Public Hygiene is Samba Sow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22648383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22648383", "title": "New Socialist Party (France)", "text": "New Socialist Party (France)\n\nNew Socialist Party (, NPS) is an organized caucus in the French Socialist Party. The NPS made up part of the left wing of the party. The NPS was founded in October 2002 by Arnaud Montebourg, Vincent Peillon, Julien Dray (former member of the Socialist Left) and Benoît Hamon.\n\nAt the Dijon Congress in 2003, the NPS motion obtained 16.88%. At the 2005 Le Mans Congress, the NPS motion obtained 23.54%. However, the NPS imploded following the Le Mans Congress, with Arnaud Montebourg founding the Renovate Now faction and Peillon, Hamon, and Emmanuelle continuing a rump NPS. \n\nThe rump NPS split again before the Reims Congress in 2008, when Peillon left the NPS, which supported Benoît Hamon's motion, to support Ségolène Royal's motion. \n"}
{"id": "414740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414740", "title": "Official Journal of the European Union", "text": "Official Journal of the European Union\n\nThe Official Journal of the European Union (the OJ) is the official gazette of record for the European Union (EU). It is published every working day in all of the official languages of the member states. Only legal acts published in the Official Journal are binding.\n\nIt was first published on 30 December 1952 as the \"Official Journal of the European Coal and Steel Community\". This was renamed \"Official Journal of the European Communities\" with the establishment of the European Community before taking its current title when the Treaty of Nice entered into force on 1 February 2003. Since 1998 the Journal has been available online via the EUR-Lex service.\n\nAs of the 1st of July 2013, the electronic version of the Official Journal bears legal value instead of the paper version. Each issue is published as a set of documents in PDF/A format (one per official language) plus one XML document ensuring the overall coherency through hashes and a \"qualified electronic signature\" (a kind of digital signature defined in European law) extended with a trusted time stamp.\n\nThe Journal comprises two series:\nThere is also a supplementary S series which contains invitations to tender, and other documents relating to the EU Procurement Directives (see: Government procurement in the European Union). The S Series is also the only series that is not issued in every working language of the Union. Each contracting authority issues notices in the language of its choice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29998481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29998481", "title": "Operation Leakspin", "text": "Operation Leakspin\n\nOperation: Leakspin was conceived by Anonymous, with the purpose of sorting through recent WikiLeaks releases to identify and raise awareness of potentially important and previously overlooked cables.\n\nWhen the Dutch police arrested a 16-year-old in December 2010 for personally creating a substantial botnet and independently conducting a DDoS attack on websites such as Mastercard.com and Visa.com, a subset of those present and involved at the time decided to move towards more long-term-viable goals such as promoting dialogue and spreading the reach of the WikiLeaks cables.\n\nThe name is a pun on the \"Leekspin\" joke animation.\n\nAs with all actions by Anonymous, it has arisen in an \"ad hoc\" fashion and holds neither a centralized leadership nor an enforceable command structure.\n\nDue to the decentralized nature of the project, several independent websites are participating in the effort. It is not clear how much co-ordination, if any, exists between these sites. A list follows:\n\nLeakspin represents a sharp departure from the tactics of Operation Payback. Rather than attacking perceived enemies of the pro-WikiLeaks movement, the sole focus is on propagating material determined to be of public interest. This potentially could lead to media outlets and the general public focusing on the issues uncovered by the released diplomatic cables rather than the morality or sensibility of DDoS attacks as a form of protest or Julian Assange's current legal travails.\n\nIt is not clear if Operation Leakspin participants and organizers are working towards a massive global protest movement, such as Anonymous's Project Chanology. Several WikiLeaks-themed demonstrations have occurred globally, but appear to be isolated movements.\n\nIt is difficult to ascertain how much support Operation Leakspin has garnered in the Anonymous community.\n\nAlthough WikiLeaks and Julian Assange are potentially being targeted for criminal investigations in the United States in connection with releasing classified documents, there is no real possibility that Leakspin participants could be at legal risk in the USA due to the protections inherent in the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Although arrests have taken place in connection with other pro-WikiLeaks actions, there have so far been no reports of any Leakspin websites or activists being investigated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4884359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4884359", "title": "Political cinema", "text": "Political cinema\n\nPolitical cinema in the narrow sense of the term is a cinema which portrays current or historical events or social conditions in a partisan way in order to inform or to agitate the spectator. Political cinema exists in different forms such as documentaries, feature films, or even animated and experimental films.\n\nPolitical cinema in the narrow sense of the term refers to political films which do not hide their political stance. This does not mean that they are necessarily pure propaganda. The difference to other films is not that they are political but how they show it.\n\nEven ostensibly \"apolitical\" escapist films, which promise \"mere entertainment\" as an escape from everyday life, however, fulfill a political function. The authorities in Nazi Germany knew this very well and organized a large production of deliberately escapist movies.\n\nIn other entertainment movies, for example westerns, the ideological bias is evident in the distortion of historical reality. A \"classical\" western would rarely portray black cowboys, although there were a great many of them. Hollywood Cinema or more generally speaking so called Dominant Cinema, was often accused of misrepresenting black, women, gays and working-class people.\n\nMore fundamentally not only the content of individual films is political but also the institution of cinema itself. A huge number of people congregate not to act together or to talk to each other but, after having paid for it, to sit silently, to be spectators separated from each other. (Of course the behaviour of the public is not always the same in all countries.) Guy Debord, a critic of the society of the spectacle, for whom \"separation is the alpha and omega of the spectacle\" was therefore also violently opposed to Cinema, even though he would make several movies portraying his ideas.\n\nBefore World War I French cinema had a big share of the world market. Hollywood used the collapse of the French production to establish its hegemony. Ever since it has dominated world film production not only economically but has transformed cinema into a means to disseminate American values.\n\nIn Germany the Universum Film AG, better known as UFA, was founded to counter the perceived dominance of western propaganda. During the Weimar Republic many films about Frederick II of Prussia had a conservative nationalistic agenda, as Siegfried Kracauer and other film critics noted.\n\nCommunists like Willi Münzenberg saw the Russian cinema as a model of political cinema. Soviet films by Sergei Eisenstein, Dziga Vertov and others combined a partisan view of the bolshevist regime with artistic innovation which also appealed to western audiences.\n\nLeni Riefenstahl has never been able or willing to face her responsibility as a chief propagandist for National Socialism. Almost unlimited resources and her undeniable talent led to results which despite their hideous aims still fascinate some film aficionados. There is much controversy around her work, but it is generally accepted that Riefenstahl's main commitment was to moviemaking, rather than to the Nazi party. Proof of that might be seen by the portrayal of Jesse Owens' victory on the movie \"Olympia\" (about the Olympic games in Germany) and in her later work, mostly on her photographic expeditions to Africa.\n\nThe same is certainly not true of the violently antisemite films of Fritz Hippler. Other Nazi political films made propaganda for so-called euthanasia.\n\nForm has always been an important concern for political film makers. While some, like pioneering Lionel Rogosin, argued that radical films, in order to liberate the imagination of the spectator, have to break not only with the content but also with the form of Dominant cinema, the falsely reassuring clichés and stereotypes of conventional narrative film making, other directors such as Francesco Rosi, Costa Gavras, Ken Loach, Oliver Stone, Spike Lee or Lina Wertmüller preferred to work within mainstream cinema to reach a wider audience.\n\nThe subversive tradition dates back at least to the French avant-garde of the 1920s. Even in his more conventional films Luis Buñuel stuck to the spirit of outright revolt of L'Âge d'or. The bourgeoisie had to be expropriated and all its values destroyed, the surrealists believed. This spirit of revolt is also present in all films of Jean Vigo.\n\nEspecially in the last decades of the twentieth century, many film makers considered focusing on remembrance of and reflection upon major collective crimes such as The Holocaust, slavery and disasters such as the Chernobyl disaster to be their political and moral duty.\n\nPolitical cinema of the twenty-first century seems to focus on controversial topics such as globalization, AIDS and other health-care concerns, issues pertaining to the environment, such as world energy resources and consumption and climate change, and other complex matters pertaining to terrorism, war, peace, religious and related forms of intolerance, and civil and political rights and other human rights.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1279880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1279880", "title": "Rationing in the United Kingdom", "text": "Rationing in the United Kingdom\n\nRationing was introduced temporarily by the British government several times during the 20th century, during and immediately after a war.\n\nAt the start of the Second World War in 1939, the United Kingdom was importing 20,000,000 long tons of food per year, including about 70% of its cheese and sugar, nearly 80% of fruits and about 70% of cereals and fats. The UK also imported more than half of its meat, and relied on imported feed to support its domestic meat production. The civilian population of the country was about 50 million. It was one of the principal strategies of the Germans in the Battle of the Atlantic to attack shipping bound for Britain, restricting British industry and potentially starving the nation into submission.\n\nTo deal with sometimes extreme shortages, the Ministry of Food instituted a system of rationing. To buy most rationed items, each person had to register at chosen shops, and was provided with a ration book containing coupons. The shopkeeper was provided with enough food for registered customers. Purchasers had to take ration books with them when shopping, so that the relevant coupon or coupons could be cancelled.\n\nIn line with its business as usual policy during the First World War, the government was initially reluctant to try to control the food markets. It fought off attempts to introduce minimum prices in cereal production, though relenting in the area of control of essential imports (sugar, meat, and grains). When it did introduce changes, they were limited. In 1916, it became illegal to consume more than two courses while lunching in a public eating place or more than three for dinner; fines were introduced for members of the public found feeding the pigeons or stray animals.\n\nIn January 1917, Germany started unrestricted submarine warfare to try to starve Britain into submission. To meet this threat, voluntary rationing was introduced in February 1917. Bread was subsidised from September that year; prompted by local authorities taking matters into their own hands, compulsory rationing was introduced in stages between December 1917 and February 1918 as Britain's supply of wheat decreased to just six weeks' worth. To help the process, ration books were introduced in July 1918 for butter, margarine, lard, meat, and sugar. For the most part, rationing benefited the health of the country. During the war, average energy intake decreased by only 3%, but protein intake by 6%.\n\nThe government made preparations to ration food in 1925, in advance of an expected general strike, and appointed Food Control Officers for each region. In the event, the Trades Unions of the London docks organized blockades by crowds, but convoys of lorries under military escort took the heart out of the strike, so that the measures did not have to be implemented.\n\nAfter the Second World War began in September 1939 the first commodity to be controlled was petrol. On 8 January 1940 bacon, butter and sugar were rationed. This was followed by successive ration schemes for meat, tea, jam, biscuits, breakfast cereals, cheese, eggs, lard, milk, and canned and dried fruit. In June 1942 the Combined Food Board was set up by Great Britain and the United States to coordinate the world supply of food to the Allies, with special attention to flows from the U.S. and Canada to Britain. Almost all foods apart from vegetables and bread were rationed by August 1942. Strict rationing inevitably created a black market. Almost all controlled items were rationed by weight but meat was rationed by price.\n\nFresh vegetables and fruit were not rationed but supplies were limited. Some types of imported fruit all but disappeared. Lemons and bananas became unobtainable for most of the war; oranges continued to be sold but greengrocers customarily reserved them for children and pregnant women, who could prove their status by producing their distinctive ration books. Other domestically grown fruit such as apples still appeared from time to time, but again the sellers imposed their own restrictions so that customers were often not allowed to buy, for example, more than one apple each. Many people grew their own vegetables, greatly encouraged by the highly successful \"Dig for Victory\" motivational campaign. In 1942 numerous children between five and seven years old had become used to wartime restrictions. When questioned about bananas, many did not believe such items existed. Game meat such as rabbit and pigeon were not rationed but were not always available. A popular music-hall song, written 20 years previously but sung ironically, was \"Yes! We Have No Bananas\". During the food rationing, British biologists ate laboratory rats.\nMost controversial was bread; it was not rationed until after the war ended, but the \"national loaf\" of wholemeal bread replaced the ordinary white variety, to the distaste of most housewives who found it mushy, grey and easy to blame for digestion problems. In May 1942, an order was passed that meals served in hotels and restaurants must not cost over 5 shillings per customer, must not be of more than three courses, and at most one course could contain meat, fish or poultry. This was partly in response to increasing public concerns that \"luxury\" off-ration foodstuffs were being unfairly obtained by those who could afford to dine regularly in restaurants.\n\nFish was not rationed, but prices increased considerably as the war progressed. The government initially allowed this, since it realised that fishermen would need to be able to collect a premium for their catch if they were at risk of enemy attack while at sea, but prices were controlled from 1941. Like other non-rationed items, fish was rarely freely available, as supplies dropped to 30% of pre-war levels, and long queues built up at fishmongers and fish and chip shops. The quality of wartime chips was often felt to be below standard, because of the low-quality fat available.\n\nAs the war progressed rationing was extended to other commodities such as clothing. Clothing was rationed on a points system. When it was introduced, on 1 June 1941, no clothing coupons had been issued, and at first the unused margarine coupons in ration books were valid for clothing. Initially the allowance was for about one new outfit per year; as the war progressed the points were reduced, until buying a coat used almost a year's clothing coupons. On 1 July 1942 the basic civilian petrol ration was abolished; this had been announced on 13 March 1942. (Ivor Novello was a British public figure sent to prison for four weeks for misusing petrol coupons.) After that, vehicle fuel was only available to official users, such as the emergency services, bus companies and farmers. The priority users of fuel were always, of course, the armed forces. Fuel supplied to approved users was dyed, and use of this fuel for non-essential purposes was an offence.\n\nCertain foodstuffs that the 1940s British consumer would find unusual, for example whale meat and canned snoek fish from South Africa, were not rationed. Despite this they did not prove popular.\n\nIn addition to rationing, the government equalized the food supply through subsidies on items consumed by the poor and the working class. In 1942–43, £145 million was spent on food subsidies, including £35 million on bread, flour and oatmeal, £23  million on meat and the same on potatoes, £11 million on milk, and £13 million on eggs.\n\nRestaurants were initially exempt from rationing but this was resented, as people with more money could supplement their food rations by eating out frequently. The Ministry of Food in May 1942 issued new restrictions on restaurants:\n\nAbout 2,000 new wartime establishments called British Restaurants were run by local authorities in schools and church halls. Here a plain three-course meal cost only 9d and no ration coupons were required. They evolved from the London County Council's \"Londoners' Meals Service\", which began as an emergency system for feeding people who had been blitzed out of their homes. They were open to all and mostly served office and industrial workers.\n\nIn December 1939 Elsie Widdowson and Robert McCance of the University of Cambridge tested whether the United Kingdom could survive with only domestic food production if U-boats ended all imports. Using 1938 food production data, they fed themselves and other volunteers one egg, one pound of meat and four ounces of fish a week; one quarter pint (0.14 litre) of milk a day; four ounces of margarine; and unlimited amounts of potatoes, vegetables and wholemeal bread. Two weeks of intensive outdoor exercise simulated the strenuous wartime physical work Britons would likely have to perform. The scientists found that the subjects' health and performance remained very good after three months; the only negative results were the increased time needed for meals to consume the necessary calories from bread and potatoes, and what they described as a \"remarkable\" increase in flatulence from the large amount of starch in the diet. The scientists also noted that their faeces had increased by 250% in volume.\n\nThe results—kept secret until after the war—gave the government confidence that, if necessary, food could be distributed equally to all, including high-value war workers, without causing widespread health problems. Britons' actual wartime diet was never as severe as in the Cambridge study because imports from the United States avoided the U-boats, but rationing improved the health of British people; infant mortality declined and life expectancy rose, excluding deaths caused by hostilities. This was because it ensured that everyone had access to a varied diet with enough vitamins.\n\nThe standard rations during the Second World War were as follows. Quantities are \"per week\" unless otherwise stated.\n\n1s 2d bought about of meat. Offal and sausages were only rationed from 1942 to 1944. When sausages were not rationed, the meat needed to make them was so scarce that they often contained a high proportion of bread. Eggs were rationed and \"allocated to ordinary consumers as available\"; in 1944 thirty allocations of one egg each were made. Children and some invalids were allowed three a week; expectant mothers two on each allocation.\n\nArrangements were made for vegetarians so that other goods were substituted for their rations of meat.\n\nMilk was supplied at each week with priority for expectant mothers and children under 5; for those under 18; children unable to attend school , certain invalids up to . Each consumer received one tin of milk powder (equivalent to ) every eight weeks.\n\nPersons falling within the following descriptions were allowed of cheese a week in place of the general ration of :\n\nThere were 66 points for clothing per year; in 1942 it was cut to 48, in 1943 to 36, and in 1945 to 24. In 1945, an overcoat (wool and fully lined) was 18 coupons; a man's suit, 26–29 (according to lining); men's shoes, 9; women's shoes, 7; woollen dresses, 11. Children aged 14–16 got 20 more coupons. Clothing rationing points could be used for wool, cotton and household textiles. People had extra points for work clothes, such as overalls for factory work. No points were required for second-hand clothing or fur coats, but their prices were fixed. Before rationing lace and frills were popular on knickers but these were soon banned so that material could be saved. From March to May 1942 clothing austerity measures were introduced which restricted the number of buttons, pockets and pleats (among other things) on clothes.\n\nClothes rationing ended on 15 March 1949.\n\nAll types of soap were rationed. Coupons were allotted by weight or (if liquid) by quantity. In 1945, the ration gave four coupons each month; babies and some workers and invalids were allowed more. A coupon would yield:\n\nThe Fuel and Lighting (Coal) Order 1941 came into force in January 1942. Central heating was prohibited \"in the summer months\". Domestic coal was rationed to for those in London and the south of England; for the rest (the southern part of England having generally a milder climate). Some kinds of coal such as anthracite were not rationed, and in the coal-mining areas were eagerly gathered as they were in the Great Depression (see \"The Road to Wigan Pier\").\n\nNewspapers were limited from September 1939, at first to 60% of their pre-war consumption of newsprint. Paper supply came under the No 48 Paper Control Order, 4 September 1942 and was controlled by the Ministry of Production. By 1945 newspapers were limited to 25% of their pre-war consumption. Wrapping paper for most goods was prohibited.\n\nThe paper shortage often made it more difficult than usual for authors to get work published. In 1944, George Orwell wrote:\n\nWhether rationed or not, many consumer goods became difficult to obtain because of the shortage of components. Examples included razor blades, baby bottles, alarm clocks, frying pans and pots. Balloons and sugar for cakes for birthday parties were partially or completely unavailable. Many fathers saved bits of wood to build toys for Christmas presents, and Christmas trees were almost impossible to obtain due to timber rationing.\n\nOn 8 May 1945, the Second World War ended in Europe, but rationing continued. Some aspects of rationing became stricter for some years after the war. At the time this was presented as needed to feed people in European areas under British control, whose economies had been devastated by the fighting. This was partly true, but with many British men still mobilised in the armed forces, an austere economic climate, and a centrally-planned economy under the post-war Labour government, resources were not available to expand food production and food imports. Frequent strikes by some workers (most critically dock workers) made things worse. A common ration book fraud was the ration books of the dead being kept and used by the living.\n\nIn the late 1940s the Conservative Party exploited and incited growing public anger at rationing, scarcity, controls, austerity and government bureaucracy. They used the dissatisfaction with the socialistic and egalitarian policies of the Labour Party to rally middle-class supporters and build a political comeback that won the 1951 general election. Their appeal was especially effective to housewives, who faced more difficult shopping conditions after the war than during it.\n\n\nAlthough rationing formally ended in 1954, cheese production remained depressed for decades afterwards. During rationing, most milk in Britain was used to make one kind of cheese, nicknamed Government Cheddar (not to be confused with the government cheese issued by the US welfare system). This wiped out nearly all other cheese production in the country, and some indigenous varieties of cheese almost disappeared. Later government controls on milk prices through the Milk Marketing Board continued to discourage production of other varieties of cheese until well into the 1980s, and it was only in the mid-1990s (following the effective abolition of the MMB) that the revival of the British cheese industry began in earnest.\n\nPetrol rationing was briefly reintroduced in late 1956 during the Suez Crisis but ended again on 14 May 1957. Advertising of petrol on the recently introduced ITV was banned for a period.\n\nPetrol coupons were issued for a short time as preparation for the possibility of petrol rationing during the 1973 oil crisis. The rationing never came about, in large part because increasing North Sea oil production allowed the UK to offset much of the lost imports. By the time of the 1979 energy crisis, the United Kingdom had become a net exporter of oil, so on that occasion the government did not even have to consider petrol rationing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25446158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25446158", "title": "Regency Act 1705", "text": "Regency Act 1705\n\nThe Regency Act 1705 (4 Ann. c.8) was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of England.\n\nThe Act was passed at a time when Parliament was anxious to ensure that a Protestant succeeded to the throne on the death of Queen Anne. The Act was conceived by the Whig Junto, mainly by John Somers, and seen through the House of Lords by Lord Wharton. Lord Cowper later claimed the Act was designed \"to put it [the succession] in such a method as was not to be resisted but by open force of arms and a public declaration for the Pretender\".\n\nThe Act required privy counsellors and other officers, in the event of Anne's death, to proclaim as her successor the next Protestant in the line of succession to the throne, and made it high treason to fail to do so. If the next Protestant successor was abroad at the death of Anne, seven great Officers of State named in the Act (and others whom the heir-apparent thought fit to appoint), called \"Lords Justices,\" would form a regency. The heir-apparent would name these others through a secret instrument which would be sent to England in three copies and delivered to the Hanoverian Resident, the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Lord Chancellor. The Lords Justices were to have the power to give royal assent to bills, except that they would be guilty of treason if they amended the Act of Uniformity 1662.\n\nThe Act also made it treason to say in writing than Anne was not the lawful queen, or that James the Pretender had any right to inherit the Crown. It was praemunire to say so in speech. The Act also confirmed the clauses in the Parliament Act 1695 which stipulated that Parliament would continue to sit should the Sovereign die \"for and during the term of six months and no longer, unless the same be sooner prorogued or dissolved by such person to whom the Crown of this realm of Great Britain shall come\".\n\nThe Act received Royal Assent in March 1706, but came into force retrospectively from the beginning of that session of Parliament (hence it is dated 1705). Lord Halifax at the end of the session of Parliament was sent to Hanover to present a copy of the Act to the heir apparent, Sophia, Electress of Hanover.\n\nThe Act was replaced only two years later by the Succession to the Crown Act 1707.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "465326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465326", "title": "Russian apartment bombings", "text": "Russian apartment bombings\n\nThe Russian apartment bombings were a series of explosions that hit four apartment blocks in the Russian cities of Buynaksk, Moscow and Volgodonsk between 4 and 16 September 1999, killing 293 people and injuring more than 1,000, spreading a wave of fear across the country. To date, no one has taken credit for the bombings; the Russian government blamed Chechen militants, although they, along with Chechen president Aslan Maskhadov, denied responsibility. The bombings, together with the Dagestan War, led the country into the Second Chechen War. Then-Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's handling of the crisis boosted his popularity and helped him attain the presidency within a few months.\n\nOn 22 September, an explosive device similar to those used in the bombings was found and defused in an apartment block in the Russian city of Ryazan. The next day, Putin praised the vigilance of the inhabitants of Ryazan and ordered the air bombing of Grozny, marking the beginning of the Second Chechen War. Thirty-six hours later, local police arrested the perpetrators, who were discovered to in fact be three FSB agents. The Russian government declared that the incident had simply been a training exercise, and the agents were released on Moscow’s orders. \n\nParliament member Yuri Shchekochikhin filed two motions for a parliamentary investigation, but the motions were rejected by the Russian Duma in March 2000. An independent public commission to investigate the bombings was chaired by Duma deputy Sergei Kovalev, but the commission was rendered ineffective due to the Russian government's refusal to respond to its inquiries. The official Russian investigation of the bombings was completed in 2002 and concluded that all the bombings were organised and led by Achemez Gochiyayev, who remains at large, and ordered by Islamist warlords Ibn Al-Khattab and Abu Omar al-Saif, who have been killed. Five other suspects have been killed and six have been convicted by Russian courts on terrorism-related charges.\n\nA number of historians and observers have stated that the bombings were a false flag attempt, coordinated by Russian state security services to bring Putin into the presidency. Those who hold this view point to a number of pieces of evidence, including the Ryazan incident, the fact that the Volgodonsk bombing was erroneously announced three days before it happened by Russian Duma speaker Gennadiy Seleznyov, and the fact that supposed prime suspect Achemez Gochiyayev told police that he was being set up by the FSB, and notified police about two still-unexploded bombs, which they were able to find and deactivate in time. Also notable are the untimely deaths of various observers who called the official story into question: Kovalev Commission members Sergei Yushenkov and Yuri Shchekochikhin (both of whom were apparently assassinated in 2003), and former FSB officer Alexander Litvinenko, who blamed the FSB for the bombings in two books, and was poisoned by FSB agents in London in 2006. Additionally, the Commission's lawyer and investigator, Mikhail Trepashkin, was arrested and served four years in prison for revealing state secrets. \n\nFive apartment bombings took place and at least three attempted bombings were prevented. All bombings had the same \"signature\", judging from the nature and the volume of the destruction. In each case the explosive RDX was used, and the timers were set to go off at night and inflict the maximum number of civilian casualties. The explosives were placed to destroy the weakest, most critical elements of the buildings and force the buildings to \"collapse like a house of cards\". The individuals behind the bombings were able to obtain or manufacture several tons of powerful explosives and deliver them to numerous destinations across Russia.\n\nOn 31 August 1999, at 20:00 local time (8:00 p.m.), an explosion took place in \"Okhotny Ryad\" shopping centre on Manezhnaya Square, Moscow. One person was killed and 40 others injured. According to the FSB, the explosion had been caused by a very small bomb of only about 300 gram of explosives. On 2 September 1999, an unknown person called and claimed that the bombing was committed by the \"Liberation Army of Dagestan\" .\n\nOn 4 September 1999, at 22:00 (10:00 p.m.), a car bomb detonated outside a five-story apartment building in the city of Buynaksk in Dagestan, near the border of Chechnya. The building was housing Russian border guard soldiers and their families. Sixty-four people were killed and 133 were injured in the explosion. Another car bomb was found and defused in the same town. The defused bomb was in a car containing of explosives. It was discovered by local residents in a parking lot surrounded by an army hospital and residential buildings.\n\nOn 9 September 1999, shortly after midnight local time, at 20:00 GMT, of explosives detonated on the ground floor of an apartment building in southeast Moscow (19 Guryanova Street). The nine-story building was destroyed, killing 106 people inside and injuring 249 others, and damaging 19 nearby buildings. A total of 108 apartments were destroyed during the bombing. An FSB spokesman identified the explosive as RDX. Residents said a few minutes before the blast four men were seen speeding away from the building in a car.\n\nRussian President Boris Yeltsin ordered the search of 30,000 residential buildings in Moscow for explosives. He took personal control of the investigation of the blast. Putin declared 13 September a day of mourning for the victims of the attacks.\n\nOn 13 September 1999, at 5:00 a.m., a large bomb exploded in a basement of an apartment block on Kashirskoye Highway in southern Moscow, about from the place of the last attack. This was the deadliest blast in the chain of bombings (because the house was built with brick), with 119 people killed and 200 injured. The eight-story building was flattened, littering the street with debris and throwing some concrete pieces hundreds of meters away.\n\nOn 13 September 1999, Achemez Gochiyaev called and reported about bombs planted in several locations. Gochiyaev claimed that he was framed by his old acquaintance, an FSB officer who asked him to rent basements \"as storage facilities\" at four locations where bombs were later found. After the second explosion on Kashirskoe highway Gochiyaev recognized he was set up, called the police and told them about the basements of two other buildings at Borisovskie Prudy and Kopotnya, where the explosives were actually found and explosions averted.\n\nA truck bomb exploded on 16 September 1999, outside a nine-storey apartment complex in the southern Russian city of Volgodonsk, killing 17 people and injuring 69. The bombing took place at 5:57 am. Surrounding buildings were also damaged. The blast also happened from a nuclear power plant. Prime Minister Putin signed a decree calling on law enforcement and other agencies to develop plans within three days to protect industry, transportation, communications, food processing centres and nuclear complexes.\n\nAt 20:30 (8:30 p.m.) on 22 September 1999, a resident of an apartment building in the city of Ryazan noticed two suspicious men who carried sacks into the basement from a car with a Moscow number plate. He alerted the police, but by the time they arrived the car and the men were gone. The policemen found three sacks of white powder in the basement, each weighing . A detonator and a timing device were attached and armed. The timer was set to 5:30 AM. Yuri Tkachenko, the head of the local bomb squad, disconnected the detonator and the timer and tested the three sacks of white substance with a \"MO-2\" gas analyser. The device detected traces of RDX, the military explosive used in all previous bombings. Police and rescue vehicles converged from different parts of the city, and 30,000 residents were evacuated from the area. 1,200 local police officers armed with automatic weapons set up roadblocks on highways around the city and started patrolling railroad stations and airports to hunt the terrorists down.\n\nAt 1:30 a.m. on 23 September 1999, the explosive engineers took a bit of substance from the suspicious-looking sacks to a firing ground located about away from Ryazan for testing. During the substance tests at that area they tried to explode it by means of a detonator, but their efforts failed, the substance was not detonated, and the explosion did not occur. At 5 a.m., Radio Rossiya reported about the attempted bombing, noting that the bomb was set up to go off at 5:30 a.m. In the morning, \"Ryazan resembled a city under siege\". Composite sketches of three suspected terrorists, two men and a woman, were posted everywhere in the city and shown on TV. At 8:00 a.m. Russian television reported the attempt to blow out the building in Ryazan and identified the explosive used in the bomb as RDX. Vladimir Rushailo announced later that police prevented a terrorist act. A news report at 4 p.m. reported that the explosives failed to detonate during their testing outside the city.<ref name=\"politcom.ru/2002/aaa_skandal20.php\">\n\nAt 19:00 (7 p.m.), Vladimir Putin praised the vigilance of the inhabitants of Ryazan, and called for the air bombing of the Chechen capital Grozny in response to the terrorism acts. He said:\nLater, the same evening, a telephone service employee in Ryazan tapped into long distance phone conversations and managed to detect a talk in which an out-of-town person suggested to others that they \"split up\" and \"make your own way out\". That person's number was traced to a telephone exchange unit serving FSB offices. When arrested, the detainees produced FSB identification cards. They were soon released on orders from Moscow.\n\nOn 24 September, FSB director Nikolai Patrushev announced that it was an exercise that was being carried out to test responses after the earlier blasts. The Ryazan FSB \"reacted with fury\" and issued a statement saying: \"This announcement came as a surprise to us and appeared at the moment when the ...FSB had identified the places of residence in Ryazan of those involved in planting the explosive device and was prepared to detain them.\" FSB also issued a public apology about the incident. In a live show on NTV Evgeniy Savostoyanov, former FSB director in Moscow, categorically denied that any such exercise could be performed on residential buildings with inhabitants inside and without notifying local authorities.\n\nThe position of Russian authorities on the Ryazan incident changed significantly over time. Initially, it was declared by the FSB and federal government to be a real threat. However, after the people who planted the bomb were identified as FSB operatives, the official version changed to “security training”. FSB also initially reported that the explosives used by the terrorists was RDX (or “hexogen”). However, it declared later that the explosive was not RDX, but a mixture of aluminium powder, nitre (saltpeter), sugar and TNT prepared by the perpetrators in a concrete mixer at a fertiliser factory in Urus-Martan, Chechnya. RDX is produced in only one factory in Russia, in the city of Perm. According to David Satter, the FSB changed the story about the type of explosive, since it was difficult to explain how huge amounts of RDX disappeared from the closely guarded Perm facility. \n\nYuri Tkachenko, the police explosives expert who defused the Ryazan bomb, insisted that it was real. Tkachenko said that the explosives, including a timer, a power source, and a detonator were genuine military equipment and obviously prepared by a professional. He also said that the gas analyser that tested the vapours coming from the sacks unmistakably indicated the presence of RDX. Tkachenko said that it was out of the question that the analyser could have malfunctioned, as the gas analyser was of world-class quality, cost $20,000, and was maintained by a specialist who worked according to a strict schedule, checking the analyser after each use and making frequent prophylactic checks. Tkachenko pointed out that meticulous care in the handling of the gas analyser was a necessity because the lives of the bomb squad experts depended on the reliability of their equipment. The police officers who answered the original call and discovered the bomb also insisted that it was obvious from its appearance that the substance in the bomb was not sugar. However, later at a press conference on the occasion of the Federal Security Service Employee Day in December 2001, Tkachenko denounced his previous conclusions and said the detonator was a hunting cartridge that it would not be able to detonate any known explosives.\n\nIn March 2000, the Russian newspaper \"Novaya Gazeta\" reported the account of Private Alexei Pinyayev of the 137th Regiment, who guarded a military facility near the city of Ryazan. He was surprised to see that “a storehouse with weapons and ammunition” contained sacks with the word “sugar” on them. The two paratroopers cut a hole in one of the bags and made tea with the sugar taken from the bag. But the taste of the tea was terrible. They became suspicious since people were talking about the explosions. The substance turned out to be hexogen. After the newspaper report, FSB officers “descended on Pinyayev’s unit”, accused them of “divulging a state secret” and told them, “You guys can't even imagine what serious business you’ve got yourselves tangled up in.” The regiment later sued publishers of \"Novaya Gazeta\" for insulting the honour of the Russian Army, since there was no Private Alexei Pinyayev in the regiment, according to their statement. At an FSB press conference, Private Pinyayev stated that there was no hexogen in the 137th Airborne Regiment and that he was hospitalised in December 1999 and no longer visited the range.\n\nAccording to Satter, all four bombings that occurred had a similar “signature” which indicated that the explosives had been carefully prepared, a mark of skilled specialists. There is also no explanation as to how the terrorists were able to obtain tons of hexogen explosive and transport it to various locations in Russia; hexogen is produced in one plant in Perm Oblast for which the central FSB is responsible for the security. The culprits would also have needed to organise nine explosions (the four that occurred and the five attempted bombings reported by the authorities) in different cities in a two-week period. Satter's estimate for the time required for target plan development, site visits, explosives preparation, renting space at the sites and transporting explosives to the sites was four to four and a half months.\n\nOn 7 August 1999, an Islamist group, led by Shamil Basayev and Ibn al-Khattab, invaded the Russian republic of Dagestan.\n\nIn July 1999, Russian journalist Aleksandr Zhilin, writing in the Moskovskaya pravda, warned that there would be terrorist attacks in Moscow organised by the government. Using a leaked Kremlin document as evidence, he added that the motive would be to undermine the opponents of the Russian President Boris Yeltsin. These included Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov and former prime minister Yevgeny Primakov. However, this warning was ignored.\n\nAccording to Amy Knight, \"even more significant is the fact that a respected and influential Duma deputy, Konstantin Borovoi, was told on September 9, the day of the first Moscow apartment bombing, that there was to be a terrorist attack in the city. His source was an officer of the Russian military intelligence (GRU). Borovoy transmitted this information to FSB officials serving on Yeltsin's Security Council, but he was ignored.\"\n\nOn 13 September, just hours after the second explosion in Moscow, Russian Duma speaker Gennadiy Seleznyov of the Communist Party made an announcement, \"I have just received a report. According to information from Rostov-on-Don, an apartment building in the city of Volgodonsk was blown up last night.\". When the Volgodonsk bombing happened on 16 September, Vladimir Zhirinovsky demanded the following day an explanation in the Duma, but Seleznev turned his microphone off. Vladimir Zhirinovsky said in the Russian Duma: \"Remember, Gennadiy Nikolaevich, how you told us that a apartment block has been blown up in Volgodonsk, three days prior to the blast? How should we interpret this? The State Duma knows that the apartment block was destroyed on Monday, and it has indeed been blown up on Thursday [same week]...\".\n\nAlexander Litvinenko described this as \"the usual \"Kontora\" mess up\": \"Moscow-2 was on the 13th and Volgodonsk on 16th, but they got it to the speaker the other way around,\" he said. Investigator Mikhail Trepashkin confirmed that the man who gave Seleznyov the note was indeed an FSB officer.\n\nIn an August 2017 interview with Yuri Dud, Vladimir Zhirinovsky had confirmed that the FSB had an information about the future terrorist act in Volgodonsk and relayed that information to Seleznyov (the number four person in the presidential line of succession and a member of the Security Council), however someone had misinformed Seleznyov that the terrorist act in Volgodonsk had already occurred.\n\nThe Russian Duma rejected two motions for parliamentary investigation of the Ryazan incident. In the Duma a pro-Kremlin party Unity, voted to seal all materials related to the Ryazan incident for the next 75 years and forbade an investigation into what happened.\n\nOn 9 September, an anonymous person, speaking with a Caucasian accent, phoned the Interfax news agency, saying that the blasts in Moscow and Buynaksk were \"our response to the bombings of civilians in the villages in Chechnya and Dagestan.\"\n\nOn 15 September, an unidentified man, again speaking with a Caucasian accent, called the ITAR-TASS news agency, claiming to represent a group called the Liberation Army of Dagestan. He said that the explosions in Buynaksk and Moscow were carried out by his organisation. According to him, the attacks were a retaliation to the deaths of Muslim women and children during Russian air raids in Dagestan. \"We will answer death with death,\" the caller said. Russian officials from both the Interior Ministry and FSB, at the time, expressed scepticism over the claims and said there is no such organization On 15 September 1999, a Dagestani official also denied the existence of a \"Dagestan Liberation Army\".\n\nThe responsibility for the blasts has been denied by Aslan Maskhadov, Shamil Basayev and Al-Khattab. Basayev said he had no idea who was behind the bombings. Al-Khattab said he is fighting the Russian army, not women and children.\n\nBatchayev and Krymshakhalov admitted transporting a truckload of explosives to Moscow but said \"they have never been in touch with Chechen warlords and did not know Gochiyaev\". They said that someone \"who posed as a jihad leader had duped them into the operation\" by hiring them to transport his explosives, and they later realised this man was working for the FSB. They claimed that bombings were directed by German Ugryumov who supervised the FSB Alpha and Vympel special forces units at that time.\n\nDuring interrogation, Dekkushev said that the bombing of the buildings was ordered by the CIA.\", and it was Abu Omar who had promised to pay him for the job, but never paid anything. He said that he, together with Krymshamkhalov and Batchayev, prepared the explosives, transported them to Volgodonsk, and randomly picked the apartment building on Octyabrskoye Shosse to blow it up.\n\nThe official investigation was concluded in 2002. According to the Russian State Prosecutor office, all apartment bombings were executed under command of ethnic Karachay Achemez Gochiyayev and planned by Ibn al-Khattab and Abu Omar al-Saif, Arab militants fighting in Chechnya on the side of Chechen insurgents. Al-Khattab and al-Saif were killed during the Second Chechen War. According to investigators, the explosives were prepared at a fertiliser factory in Urus-Martan Chechnya, by \"mixing aluminium powder, nitre and sugar in a concrete mixer\", or by also putting their RDX and TNT. From there they were sent to a food storage facility in Kislovodsk, which was managed by an uncle of one of the terrorists, Yusuf Krymshakhalov. Another conspirator, Ruslan Magayayev, leased a KamAZ truck in which the sacks were stored for two months. After everything was planned, the participants were organised into several groups which then transported the explosives to different cities.\n\nThe explosion in Moscow mall on 31 August was committed by another man, Magomed-Zagir Garzhikaev on the orders from Shamil Basayev, according to the FSB.\n\nAccording to the court ruling, Al-Khattab paid Gochiyayev $500,000 to carry out the attacks at Guryanova Street, Kashirskoye Highway, and Borisovskiye Prudy, and then helped to hide Gochiyayev and his accomplices in Chechnya. In early September 1999, Magayayev, Krymshamkhalov, Batchayev and Dekkushev reloaded the cargo into a Mercedes-Benz 2236 trailer and delivered it to Moscow. En route, they were protected from possible complications by an accomplice, Khakim Abayev, who accompanied the trailer in another car. In Moscow they were met by Achemez Gochiyayev, who registered in Hotel Altai under the fake name \"Laipanov\", and Denis Saitakov. The explosives were left in a warehouse in Ulitsa Krasnodonskaya, which was leased by pseudo-Laipanov (Gochiyayev.) The next day, the explosives were delivered in \"ZIL-5301\" vans to three addresses – Ulitsa Guryanova, Kashirskoye Shosse and Ulitsa Borisovskiye Prudy, where pseudo-Laipanov leased cellars. Gochiyayev supervised the placement of the bombs in the rented cellars. Next followed the explosions at the former two addresses. The explosion at 16 Borisovskiye Prudy was prevented.\n\nAccording to the court, 14 September Buinaksk bombings were ordered by Al-Khattab, who promised the bombers $300,000 to drive their truck bombs into the centre of the compound, which would have destroyed four apartment buildings simultaneously. However, the bombers parked on an adjacent street instead and blew up only one building. At the trial they complained that Khattab had not given them all the money he owed them. One of the bombers confessed working for Al-Khattab, but claimed he did not know the explosives were intended to blow up the military apartment buildings.\n\nThe explosion in the mall on Manezhnaya Square was the subject of a separate court process held in Moscow in 2009. The court accused Khalid Khuguyev and Magumadzir Gadzhikayev in organisation and execution of the 1999 explosions in the Manezhnaya Square mall and in hotel Intourist and sentenced them correspndingly to 25 years and 15 years of imprisonment.\n\nTwo members of Gochiyayev's group, which had carried out the attacks, Adam Dekkushev and Yusuf Krymshakhalov, have both been sentenced to life terms in a special-regime colony. Both defendants have pleaded guilty only to some of the charges. For instance, Dekkushev acknowledged that he knew the explosives he transported were to be used for an act of terror. Dekkushev also confirmed Gochiyaev's role in the attacks. Dekkushev was extradited to Russia on 14 April 2002 to stand trial. Krymshakhalov was apprehended and extradicted to Moscow. In 2000, six bombers involved in the Buynaksk attack were arrested in Azerbaijan and convicted of the bombing. Achemez Gochiyaev, the head of the group that carried out the attacks and allegedly the main organiser, remains a fugitive, and is under an international search warrant. In a statement released in January 2004, the FSB said, \"until we arrest Gochiyayev, the investigation of the apartment bloc bombings of 1999 will not be finished.\"\n\nIn September 1999, hundreds of Chechen nationals (out of the more than 100,000 permanently living in Moscow) were briefly detained and interrogated in Moscow, as a wave of anti-Chechen sentiments swept the city. All of them turned out to be innocent. According to the official investigation, the following people either delivered explosives, stored them, or harboured other suspects:\n\n\n\n\nThe Russian Duma rejected two motions for a parliamentary investigation of the Ryazan incident.\n\nAn independent public commission to investigate the bombings was chaired by Duma deputy Sergei Kovalyov. The commission started its work in February 2002. On 5 March Sergei Yushenkov and Duma member Yuli Rybakov flew to London where they met Alexander Litvinenko and Mikhail Trepashkin. After this meeting, Trepashkin began working with the commission.\n\nHowever, the public commission was rendered ineffective because of government refusal to respond to its inquiries. Two key members of the Commission, Sergei Yushenkov and Yuri Shchekochikhin, both Duma members, have died in apparent assassinations in April 2003 and July 2003, respectively. Another member of the commission, Otto Lacis, was assaulted in November 2003 and two years later, on 3 November 2005, he died in a hospital after a car accident.\n\nThe commission asked lawyer Mikhail Trepashkin to investigate the case. Trepashkin claimed to have found that the basement of one of the bombed buildings was rented by FSB officer Vladimir Romanovich and that the latter was witnessed by several people. Trepashkin also investigated a letter attributed to Achemez Gochiyayev and found that the alleged assistant of Gochiyayev who arranged the delivery of sacks might have been Kapstroi-2000 vice president Alexander Karmishin, a resident of Vyazma.\n\nTrepashkin was unable to bring the alleged evidence to the court because he was arrested in October 2003 (on charges of illegal arms possession) and imprisoned in Nizhny Tagil, just a few days before he was to make his findings public. He was sentenced by a Moscow military closed court to four years imprisonment on a charge of revealing state secrets. Amnesty International issued a statement that \"there are serious grounds to believe that Mikhail Trepashkin was arrested and convicted under falsified criminal charges which may be politically motivated, in order to prevent him continuing his investigative and legal work related to the 1999 apartment bombings in Moscow and other cities\".\n\nIn a letter to Olga Konskaya, Trepashkin wrote that some time before the bombings, Moscow's Regional Directorate against Organized Crimes (RUOP GUVD) arrested several people for selling the explosive RDX. Following that, Nikolai Patrushev's Directorate of FSB officers came to the GUVD headquarters, captured evidence and ordered the investigators fired. Trepashkin wrote that he learned about the story at a meeting with several RUOP officers in the year 2000. They claimed that their colleagues could present eyewitness accounts in a court. They offered a videocassette with evidence against the RDX dealers. Mr Trepashkin did not publicise the meeting fearing for lives of the witnesses and their families.\n\nAccording to Trepashkin, his supervisors and the people from the FSB promised not to arrest him if he left the Kovalev commission and started working together with the FSB \"against Alexander Litvinenko\".\n\nOn 24 March 2000, two days before the presidential elections, NTV Russia featured the Ryazan events of Fall 1999 in the talk show \"Independent Investigation\". The talk with the residents of the Ryazan apartment building along with FSB public relations director Alexander Zdanovich and Ryazan branch head Alexander Sergeyev was filmed few days earlier. On 26 March, Boris Nemtsov voiced his concern over the possible shut-down of NTV for airing the talk. Seven months later, NTV general manager Igor Malashenko said at the JFK School of Government that Information Minister Mikhail Lesin warned him on several occasions. Malashenko's recollection of Lesin's warning was that by airing the talk show NTV \"crossed the line\" and that the NTV managers were \"outlaws\" in the eyes of the Kremlin. According to Alexander Goldfarb, Mr. Malashenko told him that Valentin Yumashev brought a warning from the Kremlin, one day before airing the show, promising in no uncertain terms that the NTV managers \"should consider themselves finished\" if they went ahead with the broadcast.\n\nArtyom Borovik was among the people who investigated the bombings. He received numerous death threats and died in a suspicious plane crash in March 2000 that was regarded by Felshtinsky and Pribylovsky as a probable assassination \n\nJournalist Anna Politkovskaya and former security service member Alexander Litvinenko, who investigated the bombings, were killed in 2006.\n\nSurviving victims of the Guryanova street bombing asked President Dmitry Medvedev to resume the official investigation in 2008, but it was not resumed.\n\nIn a 2017 discussion at the RFE/RL Sergei Kovalyov said: \"I think that the Chechen trace was skilfully fabricated. No one from the people who organized the bombings was found, and no one actually was looking for them\". He then was asked by Vladimir Kara-Murza if he believes that several key members of his commission, and even Boris Berezovskiy and Boris Nemtsov who \"knew quite a few things about the bombings\" were killed to prevent the independent investigation. Kovalev responded: \"I cannot state with full confidence that the explosions were organized by the authorities. Although it's clear that the explosions were useful for them, useful for future President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, because he had just promised to \"waste in the outhouse\" (as he said) everyone who had any relation to terrorism. It was politically beneficial for him to scare people with terrorism. That is not proven. But what can be stated with full confidence is this: the investigation of both the Moscow explosions and the so-called \"exercises\" in Ryazan is trumped up. There can be various possibilities. It seems to me, that Ryazan should have been the next explosion, but I cannot prove that.\"\n\nAccording to David Satter, Yuri Felshtinsky, Alexander Litvinenko, Vladimir Pribylovsky and Boris Kagarlitsky, the bombings were a successful \"coup d'état\" coordinated by the Russian state security services to win public support for a new full-scale war in Chechnya and to bring Putin to power. Some of them described the bombings as typical \"active measures\" practised by the KGB in the past. The war in Chechnya boosted Prime Minister and former FSB Director Vladimir Putin's popularity, and brought the pro-war Unity Party to the State Duma and Putin to the presidency within a few months.\n\nDavid Satter stated, during his testimony in the United States House of Representatives, that \"With Yeltsin and his family facing possible criminal prosecution, however, a plan was put into motion to put in place a successor who would guarantee that Yeltsin and his family would be safe from prosecution and the criminal division of property in the country would not be subject to reexamination. For \"Operation Successor\" to succeed, however, it was necessary to have a massive provocation. In my view, this provocation was the bombing in September 1999 of the apartment building bombings in Moscow, Buinaksk, and Volgodonsk. In the aftermath of these attacks, which claimed 300 lives, a new war was launched against Chechnya. Putin, the newly appointed prime minister who was put in charge of that war, achieved overnight popularity. Yeltsin resigned early. Putin was elected president and his first act was to guarantee Yeltsin immunity from prosecution.\"\n\nAccording to reconstruction of the events by Felshtinsky and Pribylovsky,\n\nIn 2003, U.S. senator John McCain said that \"It was during Mr. Putin's tenure as Prime Minister in 1999 that he launched the Second Chechen War following the Moscow apartment bombings. There remain credible allegations that Russia's FSB had a hand in carrying out these attacks. Mr. Putin ascended to the presidency in 2000 by pointing a finger at the Chechens for committing these crimes, launching a new military campaign in Chechnya, and riding a frenzy of public anger into office.\".\n\nFormer Russian State Security Council chief Alexandr Lebed in his 29 September 1999 interview with \"Le Figaro\" said he was almost convinced that the government organised the terrorist acts.\n\nAndrei Illarionov, a former key economic adviser to the Russian president, said: \"[FSB involvement] is not a theory, it is a fact. There is no other element that could have organized the bombings except for the FSB.\"\n\nA PBS \"Frontline\" documentary on Vladimir Putin also mentioned the theory and FSB involvement, citing the quick removal of rubble and bodies from the bombing scenes before any investigation could take place, the discovery of the Ryazan bomb, the deaths of several people who had attempted to investigate the bombings, as well as the defused Ryazan bomb being made of Russian military explosives and detonators.\n\nAccording to former KGB officer Konstantin Preobrazhensky, \"Litvinenko's accusations are not unfounded. Chechen rebels were incapable of organising a series of bombings without help from high-ranking Moscow officials.\"\n\nIn 2008, British journalist Edward Lucas concluded in his book \"The New Cold War: Putin's Russia and the Threat to the West\" that \"The weight of evidence so far supports the grimmest interpretation: that the attacks were a ruthlessly planned stunt to create a climate of panic and fear in which Putin would quickly become the country's indisputable leader, as indeed he did.\"\n\nIn a September 2009 issue of GQ Magazine, a veteran war correspondent Scott Anderson wrote an article on Putin's role in the Russian apartment bombings, based in part on his interviews with Mikhail Trepashkin The journal owner, Condé Nast, then took extreme measures to prevent an article by Anderson from appearing in the Russian media, both physically and in translation.\n\nHistorian Amy Knight wrote that it was \"abundantly clear\" that the FSB was responsible for carrying out the attacks and that Vladimir Putin's \"guilt seems clear,\" since it was inconceivable that the FSB would have done so without the sanction of Putin, the agency's former director and by then Prime Minister of Russia.\n\nIn her book Putin's Kleptocracy, historian Karen Dawisha had summarized various evidence related to the bombings and concluded: \"That the political group around Putin could have masterminded the apartment bombings is horrifying. It is virtually impossible to find such examples in modern history. Certainly many leaders have started wars abroad and killed «others» in their own quest for political power at home. Leaders like Hafez Assad in Syria and Saddam Hussein in Iraq brutally killed many of their citizens who dared to challenge their rule. But to blow up your own innocent and sleeping people in your capital city is an action almost unthinkable. Yet the evidence that the FSB was at least involved in planting a bomb in Ryazan is incontrovertible.\"\n\nIn March 2000, Putin dismissed the allegations of FSB involvement in the bombings as \"delirious nonsense.\" \"There are no people in the Russian secret services who would be capable of such crime against their own people. The very allegation is immoral,\" he said. An FSB spokesman said that \"Litvinenko's evidence cannot be taken seriously by those who are investigating the bombings\".\n\nAccording to Russian journalist Andrei Soldatov, \"From the start, it seemed that the Kremlin was determined to suppress all discussion ... When Alexander Podrabinek, a Russian human rights activist, tried to import copies of Litvinenko's and Felshtinsky's \"Blowing up Russia\" in 2003, they were confiscated by the FSB. Trepashkin himself, acting as a lawyer for two relatives of the victims of the blast, was unable to obtain information he requested and was entitled to see by law\". However, he believed the obstruction may reflect \"“paranoia” rather than guilt on the part of the authorities\".\n\nRussian journalist and radio host Yulia Latynina opined that the version about FSB involvement was absurd because it was promoted by Boris Berezovsky who himself brought Putin to power. However, she criticized the FSB for poor handling the case.\n\nAccording to Strobe Talbott who was a United States Deputy Secretary of State during the events, \"there was no evidence to support\" the \"conspiracy theory, although Russian public opinion did indeed solidify behind Putin in his determination to carry out a swift, decisive counteroffensive.\"\n\nRussian military analyst Pavel Felgenhauer noted: \"The FSB accused Khattab and Gochiyaev, but oddly they did not point the finger at Chechen president Aslan Maskhadov's regime, which is what the war was launched against.\"\n\nOn 8 February 2000, the secretary of state Madeleine Albright was asked by senator Jesse Helms about any evidence linking the bombings to Chechen rebels during her testimony before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. She responded that, no, “we have not seen evidence that ties the bombings to Chechnya.” \n\nOn 14 July 2016, David Satter filed a request to obtain official assessment of who was responsible for the bombings from the State Department, the CIA and the FBI under the Freedom of Information Act. He received response that all documents were classified by US government because \"that information had the potential ... to cause serious damage to the relationship with the Russian government\". CIA refused even to acknowledge the existence of any relevant records because doing so would reveal \"very specific aspects of the Agency's intelligence interest, or lack thereof, in the Russian bombings.\"\n\nAccording to a cable on the Ryazan incident from the U.S. embassy in Moscow, on 24 March 2000, \"a former Russian intelligence officer, apparently one of the embassy's principal informants, said that the real story about the Ryazan incident could never be known because it \"would destroy the country.\" The informant said the FSB had \"a specially trained team of men\" whose mission was \"to carry out this type of urban warfare\" and Viktor Cherkesov, the FSB’s first deputy director and an interrogator of Soviet dissidents was \"exactly the right person to order and carry out such actions.\".\n\nOn 11 January 2017, senator Marco Rubio raised the issue of the 1999 bombings during the confirmation hearings for Rex Tillerson. According to senator Rubio, \"there's [an] incredible body of reporting, open source and other, that this was all—all those bombings were part of a black flag operation on the part of the FSB.\"\n\nOn 10 January 2018, Senator Ben Cardin of the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee released, \"Putin's Asymmetric Assault on Democracy in Russia and Europe: Implications for U.S. National Security.\" According to the report, \"no credible evidence has been presented by the Russian authorities linking Chechen terrorists, or anyone else, to the Moscow bombings.\"\n\nThe theory of Russian government involvement appears in books and movies on the subject.\n\nDavid Satter, a senior fellow of the Hudson Institute, authored two books \"Darkness at Dawn: The Rise of the Russian Criminal State\" and \"The Less You Know, The Better You Sleep: Russia's Road to Terror and Dictatorship under Yeltsin and Putin\" (published by Yale University Press in 2003 and 2016) where he scrutinized the events and came to the conclusion that the bombings were organized by Russian state security services.\n\nIn 2002, former FSB officer Alexander Litvinenko and historian Yuri Felshtinsky published a book \"\". According to authors the bombings and other terrorist acts have been committed by Russian security services to justify the Second Chechen War and to bring Vladimir Putin to power.\n\nIn another book, \"Lubyanka Criminal Group\", Litvinenko and Alexander Goldfarb described the transformation of the FSB into a criminal and terrorist organization, including conducting the bombings. Former GRU analyst and historian Viktor Suvorov said that the book describes \"a leading criminal group that provides \"protection\" for all other organized crime in the country and which continues the criminal war against their own people\", like their predecessors NKVD and KGB. He added: \"The book proves: Lubyanka [the KGB headquarters] was taken over by enemies of the people... If Putin's team can not disprove the facts provided by Litvinenko, Putin must shoot himself. Patrushev and all other leadership of \"Lubyanka Criminal Group\" must follow his example.\"\n\nAlexander Goldfarb and Marina Litvinenko published a book \"Death of a Dissident\". They asserted that the murder of Mr. Litvinenko was \"the most compelling proof\" of the FSB involvement theory. According to the book, the murder of Litvinenko \"gave credence to all his previous theories, delivering justice for the tenants of the bombed apartment blocks, the Moscow theater-goers, Sergei Yushenkov, Yuri Shchekochikhin, and Anna Politkovskaya, and the half-exterminated nation of Chechnya, exposing their killers for the whole world to see.\"\n\nA documentary film Assassination of Russia was made in 2000 by two French producers who had previously worked on NTV's \"Sugar of Ryazan\" program. Sergei Markov, an advisor to the Russian government, criticised the film as \"propaganda\"\n\nA documentary \"Nedoverie\" (\"Disbelief\") about the bombing controversy made by Russian director Andrei Nekrasov was premiered at the 2004 Sundance Film Festival. The film chronicles the story of Tatyana and Alyona Morozova, the two Russian-American sisters, who had lost their mother in the attack, and decided to find out who did it. His next film on the subject was .\n\nWriter Alexander Prokhanov authored a political thriller \"Mr. Hexogen\" which describes the bombings as a \"chekist electoral technique\"., by Dr. Alexandr Nemets and Dr. Thomas Torda.\n\nYuli Dubov, author of [[Tycoon (2002 film)|\"The Big Slice\"]], wrote a novel \"The Lesser Evil\", based on the bombings. The main characters of the story are \"Platon\" ([[Boris Berezovsky (businessman)|Boris Berezovsky]]) and \"Larry\" ([[Badri Patarkatsishvili]]). They struggle against an evil KGB officer, \"Old man\" (apparently inspired by the legendary [[Philipp Bobkov]]), who brings another KGB officer, \"Fedor Fedorovich\" (Vladimir Putin) to power by staging a series of apartment bombings.\n\n\n\n[[Category:Russian apartment bombings| ]]\n[[Category:Censorship in Russia]]\n[[Category:Deep politics]]\n[[Category:Vladimir Putin]]"}
{"id": "4235196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4235196", "title": "Sodium tartrate", "text": "Sodium tartrate\n\nSodium tartrate (NaCHO) is used as an emulsifier and a binding agent in food products such as jellies, margarine, and sausage casings. As a food additive, it is known by the E number E335.\n\nBecause its crystal structure captures a very precise amount of water, it is also a common primary standard for Karl Fischer titration, a common technique to assay water content.\n\n"}
{"id": "45148030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45148030", "title": "Southerners On New Ground", "text": "Southerners On New Ground\n\nSoutherners on New Ground (SONG) is a social justice, advocacy and capacity building organization serving and supporting queer and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people, uniquely focusing its work in the southern United States through community organizing for economic and racial justice.\n\nSONG was founded at the National LGBTQ Task Force's 1993 Creating Change conference with the goal of building progressive movements across the American South by six women, including Mandy Carter and Mab Segrest.\n\nThe organization was asked by the 40th Anniversary Steering Committee for the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom to mobilize LGBT participation at the rally.\n\nSoutherners on New Ground's programs include community trainings and policy advocacy at the intersection of race, class, culture, gender and sexual identity across the south.\n\n\"Igniting the Kindred,\" SONG's project and motto, refers to gathering people who have similar experiences in the context of racism, transphobia, homophobia, ableism, sexism, nationalism, and exploitation in the American South.\n\nIn July 2014, Southerners on New Ground partnered with to conduct a sit-in by LGBT and immigration activists at the office of Congressman Mark Takano, prompting the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus to draft a statement to President Barack Obama on the needs of undocumented LGBT people.\n\nSoutherners on New Ground has partnered with organizations at the intersection of racial and economic justice, including:\n\nSoutherners on New Ground receives its funding from individual donors and foundations, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8421270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8421270", "title": "Strength of Serbia Movement", "text": "Strength of Serbia Movement\n\nThe Strength of Serbia Movement – BK ( / \"Pokret Snaga Srbije – BK (PSS – BK)\") is a political party in Serbia, founded and led by Serbian businessman Bogoljub Karić.\n\nThe Movement received 42,813 votes (6.69%) and won 4 seats in the first round of the 2004 Vojvodina parliamentary elections and additional 3 seats in the second round, by majority system.\n\n"}
{"id": "42754739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42754739", "title": "UK European People's Party", "text": "UK European People's Party\n\nThe Alliance EPP: European People's Party UK, also known as UK EPP and the 4 Freedoms Party, is a pro-European Union, centre-right political party in the United Kingdom. It first contested an election at the 2014 European Parliament elections.\n\nThe party is critical of the Conservative Party's departure from the European People's Party in 2009 and opposes calls for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union. It positions itself as a conservative, pro-European alternative to the Conservative Party and the UK Independence Party, who it condemns as \"Britain's hard right\". The party calls for EU reform and a greater focus on jobs and training. It expresses support for Franklin D. Roosevelt's Four Freedoms, in addition to the EU's Four Freedoms. The party leader is Dirk Hazell, who is a former Conservative councillor and has been a candidate for the Liberal Democrats. The UK EPP affiliates itself with the European People's Party.\n\nIn 2014, the party fielded candidates for the European election in the London constituency only. It polled 28,014 votes across the city and failed to win any seats.\n"}
{"id": "8291498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8291498", "title": "Vice-President of Sierra Leone", "text": "Vice-President of Sierra Leone\n\nThe Vice-President of Sierra Leone is the second most senior government official in the executive branch of the Republic of Sierra Leone government after the president. The vice president only constitutional power is the immediate successor to the president of Sierra Leone if the president resigned or is removed from office by the Sierra Leone parliament]. Other than that the power of the vice president depends on the role delegated to the office by the president. \n\nThe vice president of Sierra Leone is the second most influential position in the government of Sierra Leone, after the president. The current Vice President of Sierra Leone is Mohamed Juldeh Jalloh, a member of the ruling Sierra Leone People's Party; he was sworn in as vice president on April 4, 2018, after the victory of Jalloh's and Julius Maada Bio's presidential ticket in the 2018 Sierra Leone presidential election.\n\nThe vice president of Sierra Leone is protected by a special unit of police officers of the operational support division of the Sierra Leone Police.\n\nWhen Sierra Leone was declared a Republic in 1971 by then Prime Minister Siaka Stevens, the position of Vice-President was created. The first Vice-President was Sorie Ibrahim Koroma.\n\nThe functions of the Vice-President are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "242237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242237", "title": "Whip (politics)", "text": "Whip (politics)\n\nA whip is an official of a political party whose task is to ensure party discipline in a legislature. Whips are the party's \"enforcers\"; they invite their fellow legislators to attend voting sessions and to vote according to the official party policy. The term is taken from the \"whipper-in\" during a hunt, who tries to prevent the hounds from wandering away from the pack.\n\nAdditionally, the term \"whip\" may mean the voting instructions issued to members by the whip, or the status of a certain legislator in their party's parliamentary grouping.\n\nThe expression \"whip\" in its parliamentary context has its origins in hunting terminology. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines the term \"whipper-in\" as, \"a huntsman's assistant who keeps the hounds from straying by driving them back with the whip into the main body of the pack\". According to that dictionary, the first recorded use of the term \"whipper-in\" in the parliamentary sense occurs in 1772. However, P. D. G. Thomas in \"House of Commons in the Eighteenth Century\" cites two examples of the use of the term that pre-date 1772.\n\nIn the Parliament of Australia, as well as in the parliaments of the six states and two self-governing territories, major political parties have whips to ensure party discipline and carry out a variety of other functions on behalf of the party leadership. The most important function of the whip's office is to ensure that all members and senators are present to take part in votes in the chamber (maintaining quorum and preventing censure motions). Unlike in the United Kingdom, Australian whips do not hold official office, but they are recognised for parliamentary purposes. In practice, Australian whips play a lesser role than their counterparts in the United Kingdom, as party discipline in Australia tends to be tighter.\n\nTheir roles in the chamber include taking divisions, and maintaining a \"pairs book\" which controls the ability of members and senators to leave the parliament building during sittings, as well as the entitlement to be absent during divisions.\n\nLiberal Party whips are appointed by the leader of the party, while Australian Labor Party whips are elected by the Caucus. For Labor and the Liberals, the chief whip is assisted by two deputy whips.\n\nIn Canada the Party Whip is the member of a political party in the Canadian House of Commons, the Canadian Senate or a provincial legislature charged with ensuring party discipline among members of the caucus. The whip is also responsible for assigning offices and scheduling speakers from his or her party for various bills, motions and other proceedings in the House.\n\nIn India, the concept of the whip was inherited from colonial British rule. Every major political party appoints a whip who is responsible for the party's discipline and behaviours on the floor of the house. Usually, he/she directs the party members to stick to the party's stand on certain issues and directs them to vote as per the direction of senior party members. However, there are some cases such as Indian Presidential elections where whips cannot direct a Member of Parliament (MP) or Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) on whom to vote.\n\nWhips exist for all parliamentary parties in Dáil Éireann and Seanad Éireann. The government chief whip is normally a Minister of State at the Department of the Taoiseach, and attends cabinet meetings. The whips of each house meet weekly to set the agenda for the next week's business. The Technical Group in the Dáil and the analogous Independent groups in the Seanad nominate whips to attend these meetings even though there is no party line for their whips to enforce. Whips also coordinate pairing.\n\nThe timing of most votes are difficult to predict and TDs are expected to stay within earshot of the division bell at all times. All TDs are required to vote with their party and to receive permission if they intend to be absent for a vote. Free votes are not a common feature of the Irish parliamentary tradition but they do happen on occasion, and there are calls for them to happen more often. For instance, Fianna Fail usually allows a free vote on abortion bills as in the Protection of Human Life In Pregnancy Act .\n\nFrom 1998, whips and assistant whips may be entitled to an allowance on top of their base legislator's salary. In 2011, these allowances varied proportional to the size of the group, with Fianna Fáil's Dáil whip's allowance the highest at €19,000.\n\nIn New Zealand, the concept of the whip was inherited from British rule. All political parties that have four or more members in Parliament have at least one party whip, although Green Party whips are called musterers. Parties with 25 to 44 members are allowed two whips (one senior and one junior), and parties with 45 or more members are entitled to three whips (one senior and two junior).\n\nWhips act in an administrative role, making sure members of their party are in the debating chamber when required and organising members of their party to speak during debates. Since the introduction of proportional representation in 1996, divisions which require all members in the chamber to vote by taking sides (termed a \"personal vote\") are rarely used, except for conscience issues. Instead, one of the party's whips votes on behalf of all the members of their party, by declaring how many members are in favour and/or how many members are opposed. They also cast proxy votes for single-member parties whose member is not in the chamber at the time of the vote, and also cast proxy vote during personal votes for absent members of their parties and for absent members of associated single-member parties.\n\nAlthough South Africa uses a proportional representation system, the concept of a political party whip, which was inherited from colonial British rule, has been maintained .\n\nIn 2017, ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe said \"Voting according to conscience doesn't work in a political party system. We all get into the list of things and go to Parliament as parliamentarians of the ANC [...] There will be no voting against the ANC\" . \n\nIn British politics, the chief whip of the governing party in the House of Commons is customarily appointed as Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury so that the incumbent, who represents the whips in general, has a seat and a voice in the Cabinet. By virtue of holding the office of Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury, the government chief whip has an official residence at 12 Downing Street, although the chief whip's office is currently located at 9 Downing Street. Whips report to the prime minister on any possible backbench revolts and the general opinion of MPs within the party, and upon the exercise of the patronage, which is used to motivate and reward loyalty.\n\nIn the sense of 'voting instructions', there are three categories of whip in British politics that are issued on particular business. An expressed instruction on how to vote could constitute a breach of parliamentary privilege, so the party's wishes are expressed unequivocally but indirectly. These whips are issued to MPs in the form of a letter outlining the parliamentary schedule, with a sentence such as \"Your attendance is absolutely essential\" next to each debate in which there will be a vote, underlined one, two or three times according to the severity of the whip:\n\nIn the United States there are legislatures at the local (city councils, town councils, county boards, etc.), state, and federal levels. The federal legislature (Congress), the legislatures in all states except for Nebraska, and many county and city legislative bodies are divided along party lines and have whips, as well as majority and minority leaders. The whip is also the assistant majority or assistant minority leader.\n\nBoth houses of Congress, the House of Representatives and Senate, have majority and minority whips. They in turn have subordinate \"regional\" whips. While members of Congress often vote along party lines, the influence of the whip is weaker than in the UK system. One reason is that a considerable amount of money is raised by individual candidates, and members of Congress, or any other person, cannot be expelled from a political party, which are formed simply by open registration. In addition, because preselection of candidates for office is generally done through a primary election open to a wide number of voters, candidates who may support their constituents' views rather than the party line cannot easily be rejected by their party.\n\nBecause members of Congress cannot serve simultaneously in executive positions, a whip in the United States cannot bargain for votes by using potential promotion or demotion in a sitting administration as an inducement. There is, however, a highly structured committee system in both houses of Congress, and a whip may be able to offer promotion or threaten demotion within that system instead. In the House of Representatives, the influence of a single member individually is relatively small and therefore depends a great deal on the representative's seniority (i.e., in most cases, on the length of time they have held office).\n\nIn the Senate, the majority whip is the third-highest ranking individual in the majority party (the party with the most seats). The majority whip is outranked by the majority leader and, unofficially, the president pro tempore. The office of president pro tempore is largely honorific and usually given to the longest-serving senator of the majority, the majority whip is in reality the second-ranking senator in the majority conference. Similarly, in the House, the majority whip is outranked by both the majority leader and the speaker. Unlike the Senate's presiding officer, the Speaker is the leader of his or her party's caucus in the House.\n\nIn both the House and the Senate, the minority whip is the second highest-ranking individual in the minority party (the party with the lesser number of legislators in a legislative body), outranked only by the minority leader.\n\nThe whip position was created in the House of Representatives in 1897 by Republican Speaker Thomas Reed, who appointed James A. Tawney as the first whip. The first Democratic whip, Oscar Wilder Underwood, was appointed around 1900. In the Senate, the position was created in 1913 by John W. Kern, chair of the Democratic caucus, when he appointed J. Hamilton Lewis as the first whip, while Republicans later chose James Wadsworth as the party's first in 1915.\n\nIn most countries not now or formerly under control of the British Empire or part of the Commonwealth of Nations—like most of continental Europe and Asia—the position of whip does not officially exist. The whip's responsibilities are mostly exercised by the party leader or the leader of a parliamentary faction themselves.\n\nBritish author and politician Michael Dobbs wrote a trilogy of books, centred around a fictional party whip named Francis Urquhart, which was dramatised and broadcast on the British Broadcasting Corporation between 1990 and 1995. The first book in the trilogy, titled \"House of Cards\", lent its name to the original UK television series and has also been used as the title of subsequent series based on other countries' political systems. In \"House of Cards\", Francis Urquhart is the Chief Whip for the UK Conservative Party and the trilogy charts his ambitious rise through his party's ranks until he becomes Prime Minister. \n\nIn the American remake of \"House of Cards\", Frank Underwood is the House Majority Whip for the US Democratic Party. The series charts Underwood's ambitious rise through his party's ranks until he becomes President. The name \"Frank Underwood\" was both an acknowledgement of the original trilogy's protagonist \"Francis Urquhart\" and to the US political system itself, as Oscar Underwood was the first ever party whip for the US Democratic Party.\n\nIn the UK there is a reproduction of James Graham's play titled \"This House\" that deals with the Conservative and Labour whips during the 1970s.\n"}
{"id": "903493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903493", "title": "ZOMO", "text": "ZOMO\n\nZmotoryzowane Odwody Milicji Obywatelskie \"ZOMO\" (\"Motorized Reserves of the Citizens' Militia\"), were paramilitary-police formations during the Communist Era, in the Polish People's Republic. These purportedly elite units of Citizens' Militia (MO) were created to fight dangerous criminals, provide security during mass events, and help in the case of natural disasters and other crises; however, they became known instead for their brutal and sometimes lethal actions of riot control and quelling civil rights protests.\n\nZOMO units were created on December 24, 1956 under the direct command of the President of the Council of Ministers of the People's Republic of Poland and first used in 1957. Their mission statement was defined as \"the protection of the nation,\" and their main role was as a rapid-response police force, structured after and trained by the instructors from the Schutzpolizei of East Germany. From 1972, the duties of ZOMO included counter-terrorism (including countering aircraft hijackings), with the elite Special Platoons of the ZOMO (pl. \"Plutony Specjalne ZOMO\") created in 1978. As opposition to the communist government in Poland grew, the units were expanded to counter the growing unrest, and their role became more of anti-riot police. In 1968, ZOMO was used to disperse the student protests during the 1968 Polish political crisis, leading to the reform of the formation. Two years later in 1970, thousands of troops from the Polish People's Army and ZOMO were used to quell the Polish 1970 protests, killing dozens of people and injuring more than 1,000.\n\nThe ZOMO gained the most of their infamy during the period of martial law in Poland (1981–1983). During this time period their brutal actions against peaceful protesters often affiliated with the oppositionist Solidarity movement, and the subsequent lack of prosecution of those responsible for deaths of protesters, were major factors in bringing down the communist regime. To parody the communist newspeak during that time they were often sarcastically called \"The beating heart of the Party\" (pl. \"Bijące serce Partii\"). Since 1990 several trials against former ZOMO members and their political leaders took place, most prominently in the case of the massacre in the Wujek Coal Mine (where nine people were killed and 21 wounded when Katowice's Special Platoon opened fire on the striking miners in 1981 in the bloodiest incident of the martial law era).\n\nFrom the mid-1970s ZOMO was reputed to be one of the best trained and equipped police formations in the Eastern Bloc. A candidate for ZOMO had to have the height of at least 180 cm and the weight of at least 90 kg. After the 1968 expansion, people conscripted to the military could optionally serve their draft in ZOMO (during the martial law, the military reservists who had served in ZOMO were called up to the squads of ORMO, reserve units of MO). The formation numbered more than 12,000 members in the late 1980s (twice the original designation of 6,600), quartered in barracks in the major cities across the country. The martial-law-era ZOMO members were equipped with various police and military vehicles (including BTR-60 armoured personnel carriers in the Special Platoons) and various firearms (including shotguns, submachine guns and automatic rifles) as well as various types of riot equipment (such as batons, tear gas grenades, water cannon trucks, rubber bullets, metal and plastic riot shields and visored helmets). From 1968 they wore military-style uniforms with a very similar camouflage pattern to the one used by the Polish People's Army.\n\nThe ZOMO's last action took place on July 3, 1989, when they dispersed a demonstration against the presidential candidature of General Wojciech Jaruzelski (former leader of the Military Council of National Salvation). The units were disbanded on September 7, 1989, following the fall of the communist system, and replaced with the OPP (riot control) and SPAP (rapid response and counter-terrorism) units of Policja (the Polish police).\n\nIn today's Poland the word \"ZOMO\" (or \"zomowiec\", the ZOMO-man) is a pejorative term used by protesters to denote all kinds of riot police (just as the word Gestapo is sometimes shouted out to describe police brutality).\n\n\n"}
